Jennifer K. Morita,Record Staff Writer

Stockton native LaTanya Janelle McCoy had dreams of becoming a sign-language interpreter so she could work with deaf children.

Those dreams were destroyed last weekend when McCoy died after a spectacular and violent car crash, the victim of a man police say had been on a murderous crime spree throughout the Central Valley. The mother of one died three days before she was to turn 25.

McCoy's car was struck from behind by a car driven by parolee David Scott Daniels during a high-speed chase with police. She died in her car, which was engulfed in flames as police and Daniels engaged in a shootout in south Sacramento.

McCoy's aunt watched the terrifying scene unfold from her apartment window.

Daniels, who was allegedly driving a car he stole at gunpoint in Stockton, was wanted by police in connection with a string of armed robberies, a slaying, and a shootout with Turlock police. During the Sacramento shootout, Daniels shot a police sergeant. Daniels also was shot.

Daniels remains hospitalized, and police would not comment on the case Sunday. It is unclear what charges he may face.

McCoy, the mother of an 18-month-old girl, was born and raised in a south Stockton neighborhood near the San Joaquin County fairgrounds. She attended Nightingale and August elementary schools, Webster Middle School and graduated in 1993 from Franklin High School.

"She was a fun-loving, outgoing, beautiful woman," McCoy's mother, Zepre Anderson-Thompson said. "She studied psychology and sign-language at (San Joaquin Delta College and wanted to be an interpreter working with children.

"She loved children."

McCoy moved to Sacramento three years ago where she worked at a nursery school during the week and at Sutter Memorial Hospital on weekends.

McCoy had just left her Sacramento apartment complex on Mack Road and was on her way to work at the hospital around 6:30 a.m. Sunday, Jan. 2, when Daniels crashed into her.

Police had been searching the Mack Road area near McCoy's apartment for Daniels when they spotted him in a Chevrolet Camaro allegedly stolen the night before in Stockton.

Officers chased Daniels along Mack Road until he hit McCoy's car from behind. Her car flipped over and burst into flames.

A shootout with police left one officer seriously wounded. Police shot back, striking Daniels several times in the upper torso.

Cynthia Anderson, McCoy's aunt who lives in the same apartment complex, heard the sirens from the chase just moments before a thunderous explosion.

"I heard the impact and threw the curtain back, and I could see the flames and the trail of fire," Anderson said Sunday. "I saw the police and the shooting and all the while I was watching the car that was on fire.

"The whole time I was praying for the soul in the car, and I didn't know it was my niece."

Anderson-Thompson found out her daughter may have been involved in the crash later that day when authorities called her Stockton home and asked her to verify McCoy's license-plate number.

She and her mother, Maxine Williford, drove to Sacramento to find out if it was McCoy.

"It was so hard making that drive and not knowing," Anderson-Thompson said. "It was the longest hour of my life."

Police have been criticized for the high-speed chase and for focusing their efforts on Daniels instead of helping McCoy, and McCoy's family said police took too long to put out the flames that engulfed her car.

"If they had put out the fire instead (of shooting at Daniels, I might have a daughter to bury instead of just ashes," Anderson-Thompson said.

Sacramento police would not comment Sunday on their handling of the chase and ensuing shootout.

Anderson-Thompson said her daughter's personality drew people to her.

"She was loving, understanding and tried to help anybody she could," Anderson-Thompson said. "She loved her daughter, and she spent a lot of time with me.

"She was like my best friend."

Herman Strother, 25, dated McCoy "off and on" since they were both 13 years old. In 1998 they had a daughter together, Tyoni Rose Strother.

"She meant a lot to me," Strother said. "She was sweet and beautiful, but most of all she loved me as much as I loved her.

"She was taken away from me too soon. She was an angel, and God needed her more. But we sure did love her here on Earth."

Anderson-Thompson is now caring for her granddaughter.

* To reach reporter Jennifer K. Morita, phone367-3060