KALAMAZOO — A Kalamazoo man described as having "a troubled past" who was shot and killed Tuesday by police was the father of a teenage boy who was found dead in the Kalamazoo River six months ago, county records show.

Chad L. Harris, 42, was pronounced dead Tuesday at Bronson Methodist Hospital, shortly after he was shot by Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety officers at his home at 1825 Greenlawn Ave. in the city's West Main Hill neighborhood.



Officers responded to the residence just before 4 p.m. after Harris called police and said he was holding a woman hostage and threatened to kill the first KDPS officers who arrived on scene, Public Safety Chief Jeff Hadley said Wednesday.

Records from the Kalamazoo County Clerk's Office show that Harris' son, Lance Thomas Harris, 17, was living at the Greenlawn Avenue house with his father at the time of his death in September.



Police said officers found Lance Harris Sept. 14 floating in the Kalamazoo River after a jogger spotted the teen in the water near Mills Street south of East Michigan Avenue.

Lance Harris' death was ruled an accident and a death certificate filed in the county clerk's office lists his cause of death as drowning associated with an overdose of dextromethorphan. Dextromethorphan is an active ingredient in several over-the-counter cough medicines.

Hadley said Wednesday that detectives from Public Safety's Criminal Investigations Division and its Office of Professional Standards are conducting separate investigations of the Tuesday's shooting. The incident is the Public Safety's first fatal officer-involved shooting since 2004.

In Tuesday's shooting, police said officers encountered Chad Harris who was holding a kitchen knife and threatening officers. Hadley said officers tried several times to de-escalate the situation before officers shot Harris, whom they saw as "an imminent threat" to another officer.

While he said Wednesday that Chad Harris had a troubled past, Hadley did not provide details. The chief did say officers had responded to Harris' residence 18 times since Jan. 1 for incidents that included reports of a suicidal subject and trouble with a person.

Since the incident, Hadley said two of the five officers involved are on excused time off while the other three are still on duty. Hadley provided few details about the incident Tuesday during a press conference but did say that an initial review of the fatal shooting showed the officers acted appropriately.

“It appears they did what they are trained to do and what I expect them to do,” the chief said. “I expect my officers to go home safely. Period.”

Contact Rex Hall Jr. at rhall@kalamazoogazette.com or 269-388-7784.