Crime & Safety NEW DETAILS: Police Charge Surviving Offender in Fatal Carjacking, Bond Set at $300K Crystal Perez was charged April 13 with kidnapping and hijacking. Reply

Updated at 3:00 p.m., April 14

The surviving offender of a March 30 carjacking and kidnapping that left one person dead and another injured was charged April 13, according to . Following a police investigation, Crystal Perez, of Park Drive in Glenview, was implicated in the carjacking of a man at knife point, police said yesterday afternoon. The Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office has approved the charges—one count of aggravated kidnapping and one county of aggravated vehicular hijacking—according to a news release.

Initially, police did not anticipate any charges would be made but after an investigation that revealed several holes in Perez's interview following the incident, things took a different direction, Comm. Jeff Ader told Patch. "These are Class X felonies which are just below murder," he said. "These are very serious charges and you can go to prison for a long time."

Perez remained in the custody of the Glenview Police Department until her bond hearing April 14. Bond was set at $300,000 D -- of which Perez must pay 10 percent -- and she is next scheduled to appear in court April 29. To read the full story, see the original article below.

Updated at 1:22 p.m., March 30

Original Story A carjacking and kidnapping ended in an early morning police chase that left one man dead and a woman injured, according to .

Christopher J. Walsh, 20, accompanied by a 19-year-old female, allegedly kidnapped a 22-year-old Glenview man at knifepoint while stealing his car on Park Drive in a residential area near Glenview and Shermer roads, Glenview Police Comm. Jeff Ader told Patch. “This was not an instance of stranger danger,” Ader said. “These people were acquainted.” After the victim was dropped in Evanston by the two offenders around 1:30 a.m., the victim reported the carjacking to Evanston police, who dispatched an area-wide radio message around 2:10 a.m., Glenview police said this morning. The victim had a superficial cut from a knife, but did not seek medical attention for his injuries, Ader said. After a Skokie Police officer spotted the 2000 Pontiac the offenders immediately drove off, according to police. A brief chase ensued, ending with a crash at Lincoln and Marmora streets in Morton Grove near China Chef restaurant. Window glass was broken from the crash’s debris, but there was no structural damage to the building, police said. “There was a large brick sign and this guy found it,” Ader said. “That’s what happens when you’re out of control.”