Levester Carter Jr. would have turned 23 this week had he not been shot by Richmond police officers on Rosetta Street in Fairfield Court last Friday.

Carter ran from officers after they pulled over the black Honda in which he was riding. Moments later, Officer Montague Agee was shot. Carter was holding the gun.

Richmond Police Majors David McCoy and Rick Hicks said Monday they now know why Carter ran, and why he didn't want to go to jail.

Carter was wanted by Washington, D.C. police for a 1999 murder, as well as assaulting a police officer.

Carter ran then, too. He ran all the way to Richmond's East End, a long way from his Northwest 11th Street home in D.C.

"He had assumed the identification of another person and he was a drug dealer in the Fairfield community," Hicks said.

Carter had dealt drugs within an hour of the shooting, Hicks said.

McCoy described the 195-pound man as being "all muscle" and said Carter had used drugs in the car with a 2-year-old child present.

For Agee, a veteran patrolman, crossing Carter's path almost proved deadly. (Ty Bowers / richmond.com) Richmond Police Majors David McCoy and Rick Hicks held a press conference Monday at the police training academy to address the Fairfield Court shooting. A routine license check on the car's driver revealed that he was wanted for arrest.

When Agee returned to make the arrest, Carter ran, tearing off his shirt to make it harder to identify him, police said.

Agee followed Carter on foot, and following a struggle, was shot with his own gun.

Backup officers Darrell Goins and Goldie Weaver arrived on the scene to find Carter waving Agee's gun around, said police spokesperson Jennifer Riley.

Weaver and Goins shot Carter "multiple times," killing the armed suspect, Riley added.

Agee is still in Virginia Commonwealth University's Medical College of Virginia Hospitals awaiting bone grafts to repair a bone fracture in his right arm.

How many times Weaver and Goins fired their guns, or where and how many times Carter was shot are not yet known, Hicks and McCoy said.

"We don't feel at this time it's appopriate to give bits and pieces" of information on the incident, Hicks said in Monday's press conference.

An autopsy is underway, he added, and once it's complete, police will be able to determine the number of shots and their trajectory.

Some Fairfield residents, however, are alleging that Goins and/or Weaver shot Carter in the back.

Police will hold a hearing at 7 p.m. on Wednesday night in the Woodville Elementary School auditorium to address those concerns, McCoy said.