WATERLOO

The lone survivor of a high-speed chase and triple-fatality car crash is doing well and will be home within the next month.

Cordell Hodges, 15, released Monday from University Iowa Hospital and Clinics in Iowa City, is at Covenant Medical Center.

From his hospital room, he declined to describe the nature of his injuries, saying only, "I'm doing fine."

Of the accident, Hodges said, "I don't remember nothing."

A preliminary report by the Iowa State Patrol found Hodges was a front-seat passenger in a stolen Lexus that sped away from officers in Tama County early April 6.

The lead investigator said Tuesday Patrol officials will not press charges because driver Martavis Simpson, 16, died in the accident.

Nor are charges expected from the Tama County Attorney's Office. Dave Ruopp, Tama's chief sheriff's deputy, said county officials were leaving the decision on criminal prosecution to the ISP.

Passengers Tyrone Seals, 15, and Rashad Greer, 15, also died in the accident.

According to the ISP report, the chase began when a Toledo police officer noticed the vehicle backing the wrong way down a street before running some stop signs.

The chase began at 1:51 a.m. Nine minutes later, a Tama County deputy reported the Lexus had crashed into a utility pole at the T intersection of U.S. Highway 63 and Iowa Highway 96.

During the 13-mile chase along Highway 63, the driver tried to run cars of two sheriff's deputies off the road, according to the report.

When the chase began, the Toledo police officer could not get close enough to the car to see the license plate. A Tama deputy assisting the chase came close enough to read the plate. Dispatchers soon after reported the car had been stolen.

The driver attempted to run the deputy off the road, but the deputy avoided the strike.

A reserve deputy also took up the chase. The Toledo officer dropped out of the chase because his car's gas tank was nearly empty. The reserve deputy also dropped out of the chase.

Another sheriff's deputy, heading south, parked in middle of Highway 63 to try to stop the car, but also was run off the road.

The lead deputy in the chase was almost a mile away from the Lexus when the crash occurred, according to the Patrol.

The lead deputy had hoped to crest the top of the hill before the intersection to see in which direction the car had gone, but instead he saw a ditch filled with flames.

By the time the lead deputy got to the scene of the crash, flames were 10- to 15-feet high, but he was able to pull Hodges from the car and away from the accident scene.

The teen-ager's shirt was on fire when the deputy rescued him. The car was engulfed in flames before the deputy could rescue anyone else.

With speeds in excess of 100 mph, the driver tried to turn, but the momentum caused the car to continue forward, striking a utility pole, the report states.

Officials are awaiting toxicology reports from the State Medical Examiner's Office.