Investigators this afternoon released more information about the carjacking and chase that left the suspect dead after pulling a gun on officers Thursday morning.

Jason Barsness was shot and killed by police after he carjacked a cab near downtown Minneapolis and led police on a 40-minute chase, authorities say.

Barsness, 28, with a last know address in Cass Lake but a possible address in Minneapolis, died of multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Department of Public Safety. He was shot by five law enforcement officials when he allegedly got out of his car and pointed a handgun at officers.

Eight officers have been placed on administrative leave for their involvement in the incident, according to the Department of Public Safety and Minneapolis police. The officers include the five who fired their weapons at Barsness, as well as three others who witnessed the incident. The leave is a standard practice in officer-involved shootings.

The ordeal began after a Red & White Taxi was carjacked by a passenger at about 5 a.m. Thursday.

The cabdriver was en route with Barsness in Interstate 94’s Lowry Tunnel when the suspect pulled a gun on him and told him to get out of the car, according to Pat White, general manager of the Minneapolis cab company.

The suspect then led police through the northern suburbs before driving over spike strips and going off Interstate 35E south of where it merges with Interstate 35W in Columbus. The confrontation with police happened shortly afterward.

Barsness’s criminal record includes two DWI convictions in 2004 and 2005, as well as a disorderly conduct conviction in 2005 and domestic assault in 2007.

His family could not be reached for comment.

The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is handling the investigation, with help from Anoka County authorities and the Minneapolis Police Department.

Minneapolis police officer Paul Dellwo, State Trooper Jared Sturgill and Andrew Wayne Gibbs were among the officers who shot at Barsness. The names of two Brooklyn Park police who also fired their weapons will be released later today. State Trooper Gerald Ladwig, as well as Minneapolis police officers Daniel Ledman and Chris Smith were among the officers who witnessed the incident.