WHITTIER — Investigators Wednesday continued piecing together the events leading up to the weekend death of Whittier man shot by police with a Taser after being found wandering nude and bleeding in Uptown Whittier.

James Robert Hudson, 34, of Whittier died at 11:38 p.m. Saturday at Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, Los Angeles County Department of Coroner Lt. Cheryl MacWillie said.

Whittier police officers found him while responding to reports of a nude and bleeding person running around in the 13800 block of Philadelphia Avenue, Lt. Mike Rosson of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau said Wednesday. A witness reported the person had run into the back of a car.

Officers found Hudson, still nude and bleeding from a gash on his head, lying face-down in some ivy, Rosson said. He did not respond to verbal commands.

“When they go to turn him over to examine him, he jumped up and aggressed the officers,” Rosson said.

Fearing that Hudson was either under the influence or mentally unstable, “A Taser was deployed,” he said.

“The Taser worked properly,” dropping Hudson to the ground,” Rosson said. Because he was kicking, both his hands and feet were cuffed.

As paramedics looked over Hudson at the scene, he began to show signs of physical distress, and officials rushed him to the hospital where he was pronounced dead about an hour later, according to sheriff’s and coroner’s officials.

Hudson’s officials cause of death remained under investigation Wednesday pending toxicology testing, she said.

Sheriff’s officials were also looking into whether mental illness played a role in the incident, officials added.

Rosson said acquaintances of Hudson reported seeing him just after 9 p.m. Though he appeared “agitated,” friends said he was lucid and fully clothed when they last saw him walk away.

“Sometime between the time he was last seen by acquaintances and the time he was found by officers, he sustained a laceration to his head,” Rosson said. It was unclear if had been the victim of an assault or had taken some kind of fall.

“There’s a lot more questions then there are answers,” he said.

Barbara Strout, who lives in the hills above Whittier College, said a combined 10 emergency personnel vehicles were on the scene.

“It’s very rare for that to happen here,” she said.

There were rumors that a naked man was running around the neighborhood knocking on doors, Strout said.

Hudson lived within walking distance of where he encountered police, investigators said.

Rosson said his clothes were found nearby in the middle of the street in the 6700 block of Hillside Lane.

His wallet was with the clothing, so it did not appear Hudson had been the victim of a robbery, he added.

The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department is investigating the death at the request of Whittier police, officials said. No official information about the death was released until Wednesday, four days after the death.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper said that once the sheriff’s department and Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office complete their criminal investigations, Whittier police will conduct their own internal probe into the death.

Whittier police officials referred all questions about the incident to sheriff’s homicide investigators.

Anyone with information is asked to contact sheriff’s homicide detectives as 323-890-5500.

— Staff Writer Sandra Molina contributed to this story.