Miami-Dade Police Homicide detectives are investigating a police-involved shooting. According to investigators, Miami-Dade Police Officers, while on patrol, encountered gunfire in the listed area. An officer suffered a gunshot wound to the foot and was transported to a local hospital in stable condition. At this time, there remains an active search for the subject(s) responsible for the shooting. The subject(s) are to be considered armed & dangerous.

There is no further information available at this time.

Information will be released as it becomes available. The MDPD Shift Commander will not be providing updates.

UPDATE #1: The listed subject, Durall Jessie Miller, has been identified by investigators as the shooter in the aforementioned police-involved shooting. He is wanted for Attempted Murder on a Police Officer - 2 Counts. He was possibly last seen in a newer model Nissan SUV, black in color.

He remains at large and is considered ARMED & DANGEROUS.

Anyone with information regarding the whereabouts of this subject is urged to contact the Miami-Dade Police Department.

UPDATE #2: On April 18, 2011, at approximately 11:30 pm, Miami-Dade Police Detectives following investigative leads, tracked the subject, Durall Jessie Miller to a residence located at 4421 NW 171st Street, in the City of Miami Gardens. The MDPD's Special Response Team (SRT) arrived and made contact with several individuals located inside the residence. SRT successfully removed all of the individuals from the residence, with the exception of the subject, who refused to exit. During continued attempts at negotiating, the subject opened the front door of the residence and threatened SRT Officers stating that he "Had an AK-47 and would shoot the officers." SRT Officers continued to order the subject to comply with their instructions when the subject was observed making a sudden movement, reaching down in a threatening manner. SRT Officers discharged their firearms, killing the subject.

Detectives and Crime Scene Investigators continue to process the residence.

The investigation is ongoing.

