Leon Brackens (Source: Family photo)

Brackens being arrested. (Source: Police dash cam video)

More officers trying to arrest Brackens. (Source: Police dash cam video)

NEW ALBANY, IN (WAVE) - He said he was an innocent bystander, beaten by Louisville Metro and Jeffersonville police after a chase and filed a lawsuit. Now, the family of the New Albany man have taken up his fight after his death.



There are nearly two dozen officers listed in the complaint, both from Jeffersonville and Louisville, as well as the city of Louisville and the Louisville Metro Police Department.



Leon Brackens' family said he was just getting a ride to the store in Jeffersonville when the woman driving took off into Louisville after police tried to pull her over. They also said he did everything he could to prove he was just an innocent bystander during that chase, including calling 911 asking for help.



His sister, Devonne Whiting, described Brackens as someone who loved people. "He was just happy to be alive and happy to live." Which is why she said it was not until they saw the dash cam video from an officer's cruiser and heard his cry for help to 911 that they believed what he told them about the police chase he got caught up with in April 2011.



Dispatcher: 911?

Brackens: Yeah. I can't get out. I'm trapped in a van (inaudible).

Dispatcher: Where at?

Brackens: I can't get out. She's going to kill me. Please help.



In court documents, Bracken's claimed he was getting a ride to the store in Jeffersonville from an acquaintance when Jeffersonville police tried to pull her over. Instead of stopping, she took off into Louisville. During a portion of the 911 calls, Brackens asked the dispatcher to help get him out of the car then told the driver, Rhonda Rae Sullivan, that she is crazy and asked her to stop.



The chase ended on the Watterson near Breckenridge Lane. That is where the lawsuit claims police pulled Brackens out of the car and slammed him to the ground. Bracken's attorney said the 47-year-old, who already spent his life dealing with sickle cell anemia, had several broken bones. "He was in the hospital for 8 months and when he left the hospital they sent him to a nursing home because he could not walk," explained Whiting.



Two weeks ago, Brackens died at home. His family and lawyers said it was from the injuries he got after the chase. "I don't see how those people can live with themselves," said Whiting of the officers in question.



She said her family is taking over the suit Brackens filed against the nearly 20 officers he claimed were involved. Whiting said it is not for the money. "There is no money on justice. No monetary amount. Nothing can replace a life. What is a life worth?"



For her, she said Brackens' life is worth the justice he told them he wanted before he passed away.



Brackens was never charged or arrested for anything related to the chase. Louisville Metro Police will not comment on the case because it is still in the courts. They did say they have their own internal investigation that is still ongoing.

Copyright 2012 WAVE News. All rights reserved.