TRENTON — An unarmed city man who police say was behaving aggressively and gave them the impression he had a weapon was shot and killed by three police officers early Monday morning.

The shooting followed an Easter domestic dispute between the man’s girlfriend and a family member, police said.

Officers responding to a report of an assault arrived on Frazier Street around 1:15 a.m. Monday and were confronted by 31-year-old Corey Brown, who allegedly placed his hands in his waistband and ignored orders to show his hands. When he came toward the officers while raising his hand as if he had a gun the officers opened fire, police said.

In a statement, acting Police Director Joseph Juniak said the officers’ decision to open fire resulted from Brown’s behavior.

"Unfortunately, the aggressive action of the suspect appears to have dictated the actions taken by the officers in resorting to the use of deadly force," Juniak said.

Brown was not armed, and no weapon was recovered, police said.

The trouble had begun late on Easter Sunday, when Brown was involved in a dispute with his girlfriend and family, according to police. Brown allegedly assaulted one or both of them during that time.

Police were called to Frazier Street on a domestic-related assault, and were told their suspect may be armed with a gun, police said.

Officers pulled up to find Brown walking from the area. Brown became agitated when he saw the officers and shoved his hand into his waistband, an action police later described as appearing as if he had a weapon.

When Brown’s girlfriend came out to try to calm him, Brown threw her to the ground, police said.

“Believing that they were about to be fired upon and fearing for the safety of others, three officers fired their weapons, striking Brown,” said Sgt. Thomas McDonough, a police spokesman, in a press release.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE:



• Unarmed Trenton man is shot, killed by 3 city police officers after confrontation

• Trenton police shoot, kill man on city street

Brown was pronounced dead at the scene. Police have not released the names of the three officers involved in the shooting, how many shots were fired, or how many times Brown was struck. None of the officers was injured, police said.

Several residents on Frazier Street, a short one-way block of homes occupied by working-class families near the Prospect Village apartment complex, said they were jolted awake by three shots. After the gunfire rang out, residents rushed outside and saw Brown lying dead in the street surrounded by police officers, they said. All of the witnesses asked to remain anonymous.

“The whole force, it looked like, was there,” one woman said. “The whole force.”

Residents said Brown’s distraught girlfriend was escorted to a police SUV, barefoot and in handcuffs.

At least one woman was disturbed by the sight of handcuffs on Brown’s prone body, but police said handcuffing even a wounded suspect is standard procedure.

“Suspects are handcuffed, even after a shooting,” acting Capt. Steve Varn said. “Because you don’t know what effect the shots had on that person.”

City detectives are investigating alongside the Mercer County Prosecutor’s Office, as is standard procedure in police-involved shootings. The state Attorney General’s Office was notified of the incident as per state guidelines.

Detective Edgar Rios is Trenton’s lead investigator, while Detective James Francis is heading up the case for the prosecutor’s office. Anyone with information regarding this incident is urged to contact Rios at (609) 989-4158, or leave anonymous information on the Confidential Tipline at 989-3663.

Follow the Times of Trenton on Twitter.

More Trenton news: