Brenda Williams, a 57-year-old black woman, was shot and killed by police Wednesday, April 27, in the 10000 block of Anzac Avenue in Watts, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

The slaying occurred about 7:20 p.m. after patrol officers responded to reports that the woman was shooting at her daughter and her grandchildren, according to LAPD Officer Karen Rayner.

When officers arrived in the neighborhood, they first interviewed witnesses who claimed Williams “had attempted to shoot her two grandchildren and her adult daughter.” No family members were injured.

The officers drove down the street toward Williams.

“The officers then saw the suspect point her weapon at a neighbor across the street,” according to a police news release.

“Three officers fired their weapons at the suspect, striking her multiple times in the upper torso.” Paramedics were called, and Williams was taken to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead.

A police spokesman could not immediately clarify whether officers called out to Williams to drop her weapon or if they fired immediately over concern that a bystander was at risk.

Family members said Williams was deaf and would not have heard police commands to drop the weapon she was holding, according to a KABC-TV Channel 7 report.

Police were not immediately able to respond to the claim that Williams was deaf. But an investigation of the incident is underway.

The department has identified the officers involved in the shooting as Officer Jesus Garcia, who has been with the department for 14 years and 10 months; Officer John Tumino, who has been with the department for three years and four months; and Officer Diana Danley, who has been with the department for four years, 11 months.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Southeast Area Detectives at (213) 972-7813. Tipsters who'd like to remain anonymous can call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-TIPS (8477).

-- Andrew Blankstein, Robert J. Lopez and Howard Blume