Syracuse, NY - Cheryl Neri called Syracuse police three times in four months on her neighbor.

Benjamin Campione would dress all in black, wear a black ski mask and trench coat and sway under a street lamp at 1 a.m. He’d pace the streets while yelling things like “Get away from me! Why are you doing this to me?” He’d punch the air “as though fighting with himself.” He’d walk along the street backwards, staring blankly into space.

Though Campione never threatened her family, Neri said she called police between October and January because she felt he needed help. Hers were among the 1,871 calls the Syracuse police received for emotionally-disturbed people last year.

They were called again May 5 after restaurant workers became concerned about Campione’s behavior. He was later shot to death by police after pointing a pellet gun that looked like a handgun at officers at the Regional Transportation Center.

Read more about Benjamin Campione's case.

Neri, 40, of Court Street, said she’s upset that the man she called “Benny” and considered a friend died without getting the help he needed. Each time police responded to her calls, Neri said officers talked to Campione but left without forcing him to get psychiatric help.

“I’m sickened over the whole thing,” she said. “I called, I know others did, too. The system failed him.”

Police would not speak specifically about Campione’s case because of an ongoing grand jury investigation.

But officers are taught that they can’t compel someone to get help unless they are committing a crime, or are a danger to themselves or others, said First Deputy Chief David Barrette. The most they can do is refer the person to social services agencies or educate their family about different options.

“If someone is acting strangely and not taking their meds, police can’t go taking him into custody for that,” Barrette said. “These situations are very difficult, and when you end up with a tragic end like this, it’s difficult.”

An expert said Campione’s death highlights the difficulty of finding help for the mentally ill while protecting their liberty and free speech.

The law

New York state's mental health law has been rewritten to more clearly state the circumstances when police may take a mentally ill person into custody. The revision takes effect July 1, 2012. Heres an excerpt: "Any peace officer, when acting pursuant to his special duties, or police officer who is a member of the state police or of an authorized police department or force or of a sheriffs department may take into custody any person who appears to be mentally ill and is conducting himself in a manner which is likely to result in serious harm to himself or others. Likelihood to result in serious harm shall mean (1)substantial risk of physical harm to himself as manifested by threats of or attempts at suicide or serious bodily harm or other conduct demonstrating that he is dangerous to himself, or (2) a substantial risk of physical harm to other persons as manifested by homicidal or other violent behavior by which others are placed in reasonable fear of serious physical harm. Such officer may direct the removal of such person or remove him to any hospital.¤.¤. or, pending his examination or admission to any such hospital, temporarily detain any such person in another safe and comfortable place, in which event, such officer shall immediately notify the director of community services or, if there be none, the health officer of the city or county of such action." Source: The state Office of Mental Health.

There is a fine line between free speech, a First Amendment right, and disorderly conduct, a violation, said Jon Shane,an assistant professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, in New York City. To arrest someone for disorderly conduct, an officer has to have probable cause that the person intended to cause "public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm," or that they "recklessly" created that risk.

Officers can also take someone into custody “who appears to be mentally ill and is conducting himself in a manner which is likely to result in serious harm to himself or others.” But the person has to have threatened or attempted suicide, homicide or other violence to meet the standard, according to the latest revision of the state’s mental health law.

Many times, a mentally ill person does not rise to those levels.

“The days of depriving people of liberty to protect their own safety is largely absent today,” said Shane, a former Newark, N.J. police captain.

Shane said it’s going to take a difficult, long public discussion to decide how police and other agencies address mental health issues if the victim doesn’t want to get help.

Barrette agreed. “Mental illness is a problem that requires a multi-faceted approach from many players,” he said. While police are the only ones who can compel someone to get help, there are other services to which people can turn, he said.

How to get help for the mentally ill

Onondaga County's Helpline, 435-8300, can assist residents in determining the best response for someone with mental problems, said Robert Long, county commissioner of mental health. The 24-hour line is aimed at non-emergencies, he said. The Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program, or CPEP, also has a mobile crisis team that can respond if the person seems receptive to help, Long said. CPEP can be reached at 448-6555. Ambulance companies, such as Rural Metro, are also equipped to handle psychiatric issues, he said. Residents should call 911 if they are fearful or if there is an immediate danger, he said.

Those include the county’s Helpline and the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program, or CPEP, at St. Joseph’s Hospital Health Center, said Robert Long, Onondaga County commissioner of mental health.

For the police’s part, Barrette said the department goes above the state mandate of 14 hours of mental health training at its academy.

Officers receive 32 hours of training in dealing with emotionally-disturbed people, he said. Officers learn about various mental diseases and their symptoms, such as delusions. Then mental health instructors do role playing, acting out different situations officers might face.

There’s also ongoing training for all officers. Two mental health instructors are going for training next month at the Broome County Sheriff’s Office, a date set before Campione’s death, Barrette said.

Neri said she talked to Campione for the first time last fall. Others told her the man who lived on Court Terrace, “a stone’s throw away” from her house, was harmless. She wanted to be sure.

She found out Campione had a good side, too. At times, he’d wear a white button-down shirt, khakis and bowler hat. He’d stand outside and chat sports with Neri’s husband, who graduated Henninger High School with him in 1974.

Campione put up Christmas lights around the holidays and chatted with Neri’s children. She told them it was OK, but warned them to be careful.

“He’s a nice guy — he’s just sick,” Neri told them. “If you ever feel otherwise, come to me.”

The day Campione, 55, was shot to death, he talked to Neri’s 12-year-old son at the bus stop. “School’s good for you,” he told the boy. But by afternoon, Campione was back in his black “ninja” costume, walking backwards up his street, Neri said.

Shortly before 7 p.m. that night, Campione crouched and pointed a pellet gun that looked like a .357 Magnum at police in the parking lot of the Regional Transportation Center, authorities said. He was shot by Syracuse Police Sgt. Anthony Rossillo, 46, and Onondaga County Sheriff’s deputies Michael Hoosock, 24, and Deputy Adam Quku, 27, authorities said. A grand jury is investigating the case, which is standard in police shootings.

Neri said Campione had never threatened her and she’d never seen any weapon. In each case, he had calmed down by the time police arrived, she said.

She said she called the cops on three occasions when Campione:

shone the high beams of his car into her living room window, scaring her children.

stood under a street lamp in the early morning hours in his black outfit, swaying back and forth, smoking a cigarette and moving his ski mask off and on his face.

was lying in the middle of a side street, punching the air, then later banging on a metallic object in his front yard.

Neri said she called to get him help.

Barrette confirmed that Neri had called police about Campione, but said officers aren’t able to solve many of those issues.

“Officers may know the folks are having some difficulties and there is a mental illness situation, but it doesn’t rise to the level to allow us to take somebody into custody for it,” he said.

That level was met in 1989 when Campione collapsed in a North Salina Street restaurant and a loaded shotgun and an “unfunctional” hand grenade fell from his jacket, according to police reports. He was taken to Hutchings Psychiatric Center.

Campione was diagnosed in the 1970s with paranoid schizophrenia while serving during peacetime as a medic in the Army, his brother, Victor, said. He lived off a military disability pension in his parents’ house.

On Oct. 11 of last year, Syracuse University Public Safety officers arrived to tell Campione to stop putting posters on campus. Five days later, Neri called police after he pointed his high beams at her house, she said.

Campione was charged with drunken driving on Nov. 2 and later had a warrant because he never took care of the charge, deputies said. The warrant was issued in March, more than a month after Neri’s last call to police.

Neri said her neighbor left few possessions. “He had no curtains,” she said. “He had a TV and one chair, no other furniture. I felt bad.”

Barrette said his death’s a tragic situation for everyone. “This guy’s definitely a victim of his disease,” he said.