HOUSTON Jesse Brown, 20, had a Georgia driver's license that was issued in 2009 with an address in Marietta, Georgia.

Investigators learned that Brown has family there and in San Francisco, which is where he was wanted on an oustanding assault warrant.

. According to police, Brown was wanted for a triple shooting in San Francisco County that happened on Halloween in 2010. He was living there at the time, officials said.

Brown was apparently headed back to Georgia. He had a bus ticket to Marietta, officials said. He made it to the bus station, which is when things erupted.

The bag Brown was carrying had two semi-automatic weapons in it. Investigators said he was planning on carrying the bag onto the bus.

The first shooting happened around 5pm Saturday at the Greyhound bus station on Main St. in downtown Houston. That's where police said a security guard saw a weapon and called an off-duty officer over to detain Brown.

He would not cooperate, so the officer -- identified Saturday as Ofc. Fernando Meza -- shot him with a TASER, police said. Brown returned fire, hitting Meza in the hand and fleeing, leaving the gun behind.

He did not make it far before on-duty responding officers caught up to him. Brown drew another weapon and exchanged gunfire with two officers in a nearby McDonald's parking lot, officials said.

Ofc. Timothy Moore was identified Saturday as the second shooting victim. He was struck in the leg.

HPD clarified on Sunday that another officer was involved in the second shooting, but was not hit. A department spokesperson said Ofc. C.C. Thompson fired shots back at Brown while they were in the parking lot, but it was unknown if he was struck.

After this shootout, Brown kept running. He exchanged gunfire a third time -- this time with Ofc. Brandon Smith -- about a block or two away from the Amegy Bank parking garage. Smith was not injured.

A SWAT standoff ensued in the parking garage on Pierce at Fannin. While approaching the fourth floor of the parking garage, SWAT officers found Brown in the stairwell of the fourth floor. He was dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, officials said.

The gun police found on him was stolen, they said. Investigators added that the gun was involved in another Houston case. HPD is still analyzing the first gun, which was left at Greyhound.

Both of the wounded officers were out of the hospital and recovering Sunday.

It is unknown why Brown was in Houston. HPD has asked anyone with information about Brown's whereabouts while he was in the Houston area to call HPD Homicide.