Relatives of a bipolar man who died after getting zapped by a Taser gun in Long Island railed against cops Saturday, calling the 40-year-old's death unjust.

"I think it was wrong," James McDonnell, 35, said of his brother Daniel McDonnell's death. "This isn't a good time. We are mourning."

Advertisement

Suffolk County cops arrested Daniel McDonnell on Thursday after the man had a dispute with a neighbor. Cops were holding him in a cell overnight in West Babylon.

Police said McDonnell began "acting irrationally" around 7:20 a.m. Friday and that a rescue team was called to subdue him. McDonnell "was being combative" and "would not comply," cops said in a statement.

Advertisement

"A Taser was deployed but it failed to stop McDonnell," police officials said. "A second Taser was deployed and then officers were able to handcuff McDonnell."

But McDonnell went into "respiratory distress" and was taken to Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center in West Islip where he died, police said.

Sheila Frezza, 46, said her brother was a carpenter and that he and his wife had a 9-year-old son. She said no one notified the family until five hours after his death.

"We're hoping an investigation will take place," Frezza said. "We want answers. Why didn't anyone notify us?"

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

She said the police who arrested her brother said somebody would have to bring his medication to the precinct.

"At the precinct, the officer refused to accept it because it didn't have the proper label," Frezza said.

It wasn't clear whether he ever got the medication.

"When the police told us, they said the cause of death was cardiac arrest," Frezza said. "They didn't say they Tasered him. It wasn't until my brother-in-law, who's an attorney, looked into it that we found out."

Advertisement

Frezza said her brother was arrested for violating an order of protection after an argument but that there was nothing physical.

Cops said they were awaiting toxicology tests and an autopsy. Police said they could not provide specifics about the initial dispute.

tmoore@nydailynews.com