Updated 3:45 p.m.

CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Two men were killed when their SUV crashed into a concrete pillar under Interstate 77 after they successfully outran Cuyahoga County Sheriff's deputies early this morning, capping a night of shootings and stabbings.

The sheriff's office said the incident around 2 a.m. deputies responded to a report of shots fired.

Spokesman John O'Brien said the officers went to East 4th and Prospect streets, where they found a large crowd gathered in a parking lot who said two men were firing guns.

While the deputies were there, an SUV pulled into the lot and out again at a high speed. It went through a stop sign, and deputies pursued.

The deputies broke off the chase because of the dangerously high speeds as the vehicle drove south on Orange Avenue.

"The deputies lost sight of the vehicle on the road and a short time later saw smoke emitting from beneath the I-77 overpass," O'Brien said. "Deputies found the SUV on fire at East 30th and Woodland after being involved in a one-car accident."

The two men died at the scene. Their names were not available.

It was the end of a busy shift for law enforcement.

* At 1:12 a.m. three people were stabbed in the 2300 block of Broadview Street.

Police said the stabbings occurred at the Broadview Sports Bar. When they arrived, an off-duty policeman working security already had a suspect in custody.

Police said the suspect bumped into Raymond Vega, 26, of Cleveland inside the bar twice during the night. When Vega said something to the suspect, the man pulled a knife and stabbed Vega. Another bar patron was stabbed in the leg by the suspect.

One of the security staff, Christopher O'Brien, was stabbed in the ankle when he tried to break up the fight that erupted. The unidentified victim of the stabbing left before police arrived.

The suspect was arrested and is in the Cleveland Jail.

* At 10:09 p.m., two teenage boys were shot in the 7400 block of Garden Valley Avenue in separate incidents around the same time.

The victims told police that they saw two men firing at other men on Garden Valley Road and were hit by the bullets.

Both were treated at MetroHealth Medical Center and released.

* At 9:30 p.m., a man was shot in the abdomen around Olympia and Hillview roads.

Police said Travis Hardy, 22, of Cleveland, and Patrick Shaw, 28, of Euclid went to meet a drug dealer to buy some Percocet pills on Hillview Road.

When they arrived, they were met by five men. One put a gun to Hardy's neck and stole $60 from his pocket.

Shaw tried to intervene and gunshots were fired. One hit Shaw in the back. He was treated at Euclid Hospital and then transferred to MetroHealth Medical Center where he was in fair condition today.