A twisted love triangle within the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation ended with all three players dead Tuesday night.

Thirty-eight-year-old Arabella Bradford, a current parole agent in the Riverside department, lived across the street from 48-year-old ex-fiance Virgil Millon, a former lieutenant from the same department.

They had reportedly purchased Bradford's house together in 2005, located in a gated, well-off Riverside community. But a teen neighbor told the Los Angeles Times that…

… right after Bradford's new boyfriend, 43-year-old Chino correctional officer Malvin Conley, decided to move in with her, Bradford's ex, in what appears to have been a jealous rage, crossed the street and fired multiple rounds at the couple. The neighbor said the U-Haul was still parked out front.

Both Bradford and her new lover died at the scene. Millon, the killer, was shot dead by a Riverside police officer soon after.

Screwed-up new details keep emerging. The Riverside Press-Enterprise reports that Bradford and Millon had a “turbulent” relationship before their messy 2008-09 sort-of breakup — in which the woman was actually the violent one.

The Press-Enterprise dug up court documents:

They became engaged sometime before 2008, but Bradford had doubts. She said in a deposition for a lawsuit filed against her by Millon that she didn't want to get married. “I have anger-management issues,” she said. That anger boiled over Feb. 12, 2008. Bradford, under the influence of alcohol and prescription drugs, assaulted Millon in their home. She pointed her service revolver at him and chased him around the house, and she pointed a second gun at him. But Bradford told arriving police that he had actually attacked her and was possibly armed. “I wanted him (the police officer) to pull out his weapon and shoot (Millon). Riverside is notorious, known for shooting people without weapons,” Bradford testified after Millon was arrested.

In the end, Millon was fired and — miraculously — Bradford was not. Then, beginning in 2010, he started to be the crazier one — moving into a neighbor's garage, jumping out of bushes, trying to run Bradford off the road as she jogged, etc.

It all culminated with her filing a restraining order on April 29 of this year. Under two weeks later, at a 6 p.m. barbecue in Bradford's front yard, Millon snapped for good, with fatal results.

Live from the 11500 block of Trailway Drive:

[@simone_electra/[email protected]]

Advertising disclosure: We may receive compensation for some of the links in our stories. Thank you for supporting LA Weekly and our advertisers.