Dana Treen

Family members of one of two bondsmen who were shot by Jacksonville police more than a week ago gave their account Thursday of the shooting, and relatives of both men said they were looking for explanations from the Sheriff's Office.

Antonio "Tony" L. Cooks was killed and Verne Williams remained in intensive care Thursday after they were shot in the early morning hours of May 24 by Officer Jason Bailey behind the Mayfair Village apartments in St. Nicholas, where the two bondsmen and their boss were searching for a fugitive.

Cooks was behind the building while Williams and bondsman Rhys Wharton were on the front and side when Bailey and another officer arrived, said Cornelius Cooks, whose brother was killed.

Photo gallery: News conference from the family of Antonio Cooks

While Williams and Wharton were talking with one officer, shots rang out, Cooks said. Williams, Wharton and the other officer ran to the rear of the building, Cooks said he was told by Wharton and others.

"As they approached the back, they were yelling 'cease fire, we are bond agents,'" he said. "The officer then turned and fired at Verne Williams, hitting him several times."

Williams was shot five times, said Benjamin Crump, an attorney representing Cooks' family.

Cooks said Wharton was handcuffed and put in a police car for hours.

At a meeting with reporters, Cooks showed a long-sleeved shirt lettered "Surety Agent" with a badge imprinted on the front. He said his brother was wearing a shirt like that the night of the shooting.

"How can you not see it says 'Surety Agent' on his shirt and on his sleeve?"

Cooks said his brother was wearing a mask to protect his identity in the community in case he ran into someone from a case. His brother was armed and had a permit to carry a gun, Cooks said.

It was the second time police went to the complex at the request of the bondsmen. The bond company was looking for 31-year-old Fredrick Walker, wanted on charges of not attaching a license plate and driving with a revoked license.

Police seek intruder

Police had been there earlier but left when no one came to knocks on the apartment door. Minutes later, a woman inside the apartment called 911 and said an armed intruder was trying to break in the back door.

Police responded to the call as an armed home invasion.

The bondsmen were also talking to police about the same time, requesting help a second time because Walker was spotted stepping out of the apartment once police left, Cooks said.

Different officers responded the second time, police said, and found a masked Cooks at the rear of the building holding a shotgun.

Cooks' family said they have not been contacted by police.

Yvonne Cooks, whose son was killed, said she wants a clear account of what happened.

"I just want the truth," she said. "It's not going to kill you to tell the truth. If you are wrong, you are wrong."

Officers investigated

Howard Maltz, deputy general counsel for the city, said the State Attorney's Office will investigate whether the officers violated the law in the shooting.

If they are cleared, the Sheriff's Office will conduct an administrative review.

"It does tie their hands when it comes to some things," he said. "At some point they will reach out to them."

Spokeswoman Lauri-Ellen Smith of the Sheriff's Office said the agency does not comment when an investigation is active.

Rolston Audain, who is Williams' nephew but was not at the meeting with the Cooks family, said the nature of the case deserves special attention.

"This is a business where they relied on the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office," he said. "They were working hand-in-hand. I think it is worthy of some sort of explanation."

dana.treen@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4091