A 16-year-old boy has been charged with murder after his 15-year-old companion pointed a gun at Chicago police and was shot and killed by one of the officers, authorities said.

Brandon Ross, 16, of the 6800 block of South Jeffery Boulevard, was charged as an adult with felony murder and armed robbery, according to state's attorney spokesman Andy Conklin. Ross was expected to appear at a bond hearing at noon.

Advertisement

Two sergeants were responding to reports of a robbery Wednesday night when they chased the two teens down, authorities said.

The robbery victim told the Tribune he was outside his home near 70th Street and Cregier Avenue in the South Shore community at about 8 p.m. Wednesday when the teens approached and shoved a gun in his face.



The teens made off with an iPod, credit cards and a car key, the victim said.



The two sergeants, responding to the robbery, were flagged down by a witness a block away, near 69th Street and Bennett Avenue, who pointed them in the direction of the teens, authorities said.



The sergeants, in uniform and in a marked squad car, spotted the teens and ordered them to stop, authorities said.



One of the teens turned and pointed a gun at the sergeants, and one of them opened fire, striking the teen in the back. Tatioun Williams, 15, of the 1300 block of East 69th, was taken to Northwestern Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. A gun was taken from the scene.



"They did an excellent job," said the robbery victim, who asked not be identified. "If they respond as speedy as they did yesterday, that could cut down on criminals getting away."



The victim, who has had only his iPod returned to him so far, said it's unfortunate that Williams' actions led to his death.



Williams' mother, Lois Pickett, said her son, the oldest of five children, would never carry a gun.



"Yes, he has (previous arrests), but that's not a reason to kill him," Pickett said between sobs.



She said she first heard about the shooting on a news broadcast late Wednesday, but had no clue that her son was dead. Pickett said she turned to another son and said: "'I hope it wasn't one of your friends. That's right around the corner from us."



Tribune reporter Deanese Williams-Harris contributed.



jgorner@tribune.com



wlee@tribune.com