BRIDGETON —

A state trooper from the Bridgeton barracks shot and killed a man they were confronting when he pulled a gun Wednesday night, the state attorney general’s office said Thursday.

The shooting took place at the intersection of Irving Avenue and Burlington Road.

William Gibbons, 33, of Seabrook, was pronounced dead at Cooper University Hospital at 1:28 a.m. from two gunshot wounds to his abdomen and chest.

Police initially responded to a 911 call from a woman on Barend Street, in Fairfield Township, at about 8:30 p.m.

She said Gibbons, who she described as a former boyfriend, was at her residence and waving a gun, although she had a restraining order against him.

The two had a history of domestic violence incidents, and troopers had been at that address the previous night to remove Gibbons.

When they arrived, the woman told them that Gibbons had left in a pickup truck and was armed with a gun.

Police immediately broadcast a law enforcement alert, and Gibbons was found walking on the 400 block of North Burlington Road a short time later.

When the uniformed troopers confronted Gibbons, police say he pulled out a concealed handgun, at which point one of them shot him twice.

The attorney general’s office did not release the trooper’s name Thursday.

They also said that a 9 mm semi-automatic handgun had been recovered at the scene of the shooting, though they would not say if it was unregistered.

A witness who declined to be identified said he had been sitting on his back stoop when he heard yelling.

“It sounded aggressive, but I couldn’t make out what was being said,” the man said Thursday.

“I walked around from the back and saw a black pickup truck going by slowly. There was a guy standing in the yard, and it looked like he was making gestures at the truck. Next thing, I heard two shots and the guy fell over backward.”

He said that this had occurred around 9 p.m., and that there was so little light he could not see the man clearly.

Immediately after Gibbons had been shot, the witness said he saw three police cars pull up to the scene from the north.

He admitted he had not seen who shot Gibbons.

“A detective told me afterward that a cop had shot him,” he said.

Pam Soma, who was tending to the dogs of some friends from the neighborhood who were vacationing, said she had been at the house when the shooting occurred.

“I was inside and heard two shots, so I ducked down for a few seconds. Then I went on the front lawn and I looked over and saw what looked like two troopers kneeling down over a guy who was lying on the ground,” she said.

Barry Barber, a retired Bridgeton Housing Authority worker who lives across the street from the scene, said he thought he had heard three shots.

“I asked my wife ‘Did you hear that?’ she said ‘Yes.’ So I asked ‘Are the doors locked?’ she said ‘No.’ So I told her to lock them, and we stayed inside for the rest of the night.”

Barber said the troopers had been on Burlington Road well into the early morning hours.

Soma said she had not seen the police cars in front of her friends’ house leave until around 8 a.m.

According to Cumberland County Court records, Gibbons was indicted for attempted murder in September 2004 for reportedly stabbing his mother several times in the neck, chest and arm with a kitchen knife outside of the Cumberland County Guidance Center in April of that year.

However, a jury later found him not guilty by reason of insanity.

His mother, 54 years old at the time of the stabbing, had driven Gibbons to the center for treatment, according to reports at the time. Investigators stated the stabbing occurred as the pair were leaving the center, located on Carmel Road.

She was treated at Cooper University Hospital, in Camden, where she spent several days.

Gibbons has three other assault charges on his record in Cumberland County, dating back from August 2002, December 2002 and September 2003.

However, all were ultimately downgraded to municipal court.

A March 2001 theft by unlawful taking charge was downgraded to municipal court in November of that year.

His first offense on record was a burglary charge in December 2000. He later pleaded guilty to theft by unlawful taking and received one year of probation.

Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for the attorney general’s office, said that the trooper had been taken off active duty for the time being.

Two residents of one-block long Barend Street said they had seen a black man with dreadlocks pulling away in a black pick up truck from a rancher by the corner, though they were not familiar with Gibbons’ name or if the house was his former girlfriend’s residence.

There was nobody home there late Thursday afternoon.

The attorney general’s office said its shooting response team is still investigating the incident.