A Hawthorne police officer’s widow has filed a lawsuit claiming that the El Segundo sergeant who collided with her husband during a funeral procession was “unfit” for his job, and that others involved in the escort were inadequately trained and supervised.

Tracy Garton, whose husband, Andrew Garton, died after the May 26 crash in Torrance, claims in a suit filed this month in Los Angeles Superior Court that Manhattan Beach did not adequately plan and coordinate the procession for one of its officers.

Further, it alleges El Segundo police officials were negligent in hiring and retaining Sgt. Rex Fowler “in that they knew or should have known that he was unfit for the specific tasks to be performed during the course of his employment, namely the general safe operation of a motorcycle.”

Spencer Lucas, an attorney representing Garton, said a preliminary accident report “absolutely confirms our position” with respect to Fowler’s involvement in the accident. He also said it states that Fowler had many years of experience riding a motorcycle off duty, but that he had been a motorcycle officer for less than two years on the force and had little experience in processions.

The report – a copy of which has been requested by the Daily Breeze – has not yet been made public.

“He had a minimal amount of experience riding … as a police officer,” Lucas said. “We’re saying this was poorly planned and poorly supervised and poorly exercised. … It was a very disorganized procession.”

The wrongful death suit is not unexpected, considering that Garton late last year had filed claims for $25 million in damages against both of the beach cities, which denied them. Claims often are precursors to lawsuits.

The complaint filed by Garton and her two young sons, Grant and Garrett, says they have sustained damages resulting in the loss of love, affection, companionship and support and more as a result of the accident.

“The family is doing as well as expected, given this tragedy,” Lucas said.

The Gartons are asking for a jury trial.

El Segundo City Attorney Mark Hensley said Tuesday night the city would be selecting an outside law firm to handle the case. He said he was not surprised by the allegation that the city had not offered the proper training, adding: “Sometimes allegations are made pretty broadly in lawsuits.”

El Segundo Police Chief Mitch Tavera said he could not comment on specific accusations made in the complaint.

“It’s an unfortunate accident,” Tavera said. “I have the utmost respect for the Garton family and obviously for Sgt. Fowler.”

Manhattan Beach City Attorney Roxanne Diaz could not be reached.

Garton was 44 when he died in the collision with Fowler on Hawthorne Boulevard in Torrance. They had been escorting a funeral procession for Manhattan Beach Officer Mark Vasquez, who had died of cancer. It wound through the South Bay, starting at American Martyrs Church in Manhattan Beach and ending at Green Hills Memorial Park in Rancho Palos Verdes.

Last June, Garton was remembered as a family man who committed himself to his department, his family and God during a memorial service in Orange County.

Fowler, a 25-year officer with the El Segundo Police Department, also was injured in the accident, suffering a broken left leg and requiring time away from the force. Tavera said Wednesday he is back to work in a limited capacity while recovering from his injuries.

Fowler a few years ago wrote a fictionalized book to honor his relationship with his mentor, an El Segundo lieutenant who died in a car accident in 1992.

At one point, the city of Hawthorne had filed its own claim against El Segundo that alleged Fowler caused the accident during the funeral procession. But Arnold Shadbehr, the interim city manager, later withdrew that after facing criticism from his own police officers.

kristin.agostoni@dailybreeze.com

larry.altman@dailybreeze.com

Follow Kristin Agostoni and Larry Altman on Twitter at http://twitter.com/kagostoni, http://twitter.com/larryaltman