The four recent deadly confrontations involving Tucson police are the most consecutive officer-involved fatal shootings for the department in almost two decades.

Four men were killed by Tucson police from May 28 to June 27. Two of the men were armed with knives, one with a gun, and one took a Taser from an officer during a fight.

The incidents equal the most fatal shootings by police in the shortest period of time since 1994, said Sgt. Matt Ronstadt, a Tucson police spokesman.

"There has been concern on our end over what appears to be a cluster of officer-involved shootings close together," Ronstadt said, noting that it's too soon to tell if it's a trend "or simply a statistical anomaly which we won't know until the end of the year."

In the first six months of 2011 there were five officer-involved shootings, all fatal, he said.

The last time there were four fatal officer-involved shootings in four weeks in Pima County was in May 1997. The Pima County Sheriff's Department had one and Tucson police had three, according to Star archives.

There was one officer-involved shooting in 2010, and it was fatal, Ronstadt said.

There have been no significant changes in the policy and training regarding use of deadly force this year "that could explain why last year there was one officer-involved shooting and this year there have been five so far," Ronstadt said.

Officers on patrol have noticed that there are "more suspects who seem to be willing to use violence," Ronstadt said.

"This is based on anecdotal stories," he added.

After any officer-involved shooting, the Pima County Attorney's Office sends a representative, usually the chief criminal deputy, to investigate the shooting. The office investigates if the officers acted in self-defense in the face of a deadly threat.

Officers involved in the March 10 shooting of Nicholas Johnson - an armed-robbery suspect who ran over an officer with his car- were cleared of any wrongdoing in late April by the County Attorney's Office.

Investigations on the four shootings from the last month have not been completed, but based on the initial review of each of those cases, officers shot in reaction to violent threats, Ronstadt said.

The County Attorney's Office has not prosecuted an officer involved in a shooting since approximately 1982, said Chief Criminal Deputy David Berkman. But not all shootings since that time have been justified - there was insufficient evidence in some cases to go forward with charges against the officers, he said.

Officer-involved shootings from May 28 to June 27

• May 28, Adrian Quevedo, 25, was shot and killed after he pointed a gun at two officers, Tucson police said. Officers responded to a report of gunshots near Rudy Garcia Park, 5001 S. Nogales Highway, after 3 a.m. When they arrived Quevedo ran away and later pointed a gun at an officer. Quevedo died after being shot several times, police said.

• June 2, Robin Roach, 30, was shot and killed after police said he became aggressive toward an officer while holding a knife. An officer went to an apartment complex in the 2300 block of North Elaine Boulevard, near East Grant Road and North Alvernon Way, around 7 p.m. after a call about a man assaulting a woman. Roach came at the officer with a knife, police said. He died at a hospital soon after he was shot.

• June 15, Ernesto Agramont, 43, was shot after he refused commands to drop a knife as he advanced toward officers, police said. Officers went to his apartment in the 400 block of South Stone Avenue to arrest him on suspicion of sexual assault of an 8-year-old girl. Five officers fired, killing Agramont.

• June 27, Anthony Salcido, 30, was shot and killed after he wrestled a Taser away from an officer and attacked another one, police said. Salcido was suspected of shooting a fellow employee at Overboard Seafood & Grill, 4105 N. Oracle Road, minutes before he was killed. He fought with two officers, and one of them used the Taser on Salcido but he was unaffected by the stun gun, police said. Salcido died at the scene. Police are still investigating whether Salcido used the Taser on the officers.

BY THE NUMBERS

Officer-involved shooting involving Tucson police:

Year Shootings Fatal

2011* 5 5

2010 1 1

2009 8 5

2008 8 4

*Totals for 2011 as of July 1. Source: Tucson Police Department

Officer-involved shooting involving Pima County sheriff's deputies:

Year Shootings Fatal

2011* 2 2

2010 3 2

2009 1 0

2008 4 1

*Totals for 2011 as of July 1. Source: Pima County Sheriff's Department

On StarNet: Read articles about local crime and see such resources as photos of missing persons, most wanted fugitives, a database of home invasions, radio scanners and the daily interactive crime map at azstarnet.com/crime

Contact reporter Fernanda Echavarri at fechavarri@azstarnet.com or 573-4224.