Mount Airy's police chief and a captain were hit by shotgun pellets when a woman fired at them Friday morning, authorities in Surry County said.

The woman died, although it was not immediately clear whether she was killed when police returned fire or she killed herself.

Authorities identified her as Talana Salissa Cain, 45. They said she was inside a mobile home at 116 Home Trail.

Police Chief Dale Watson and Capt. Alan Freeman both suffered non-life-threatening injuries.

Freeman was grazed in the arm and Watson was hit in the upper body, officials said at the scene. Freeman was treated at the scene. Watson was transported to Northern Hospital of Surry County and then to Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center in Winston-Salem for treatment, and he was released.

Police were responding to a 911 call that came in at 8:25 a.m. about a woman inside a mobile home shooting herself, Surry County Sheriff Graham Atkinson said. When the officers entered the home, they found Cain in a back bedroom armed with a shotgun.

They tried to talk to her, Atkinson said, but she fired at the officers and they returned fire and got out of the home. A radio call went out that an officer might be down, and about 40 officers converged at the home, including the police department's SWAT team, Highway Patrol troopers, Surry County sheriff's officers, Surry Community College officers and Dobson police, as well as other emergency responders.

At 9:55 a.m., officers made their way back into the home and into the back bedroom, where they found Cain dead of an apparent gunshot wound, Atkinson said.

Cain had a history of alcohol abuse, according to court records.

She was released from prison in August after serving two months of a six-month sentence for driving while impaired in connection with an October 2009 arrest, according to the N.C. Department of Correction. She had been arrested on DWI charges at least two other times, records show.

Atkinson wouldn't comment on how many shots were fired and said the State Bureau of Investigation has taken over that part of the investigation. An SBI investigation is standard procedure when an officer is involved in a shooting.

The lot the mobile home sits on adjoins the eastern edge of Mount Airy's city limits, and the home itself is within feet of the city. Mount Airy police responded because they were closer than sheriff's deputies, Atkinson said.

Nearby Mount Airy Middle School was holding graduation ceremonies when the shooting occurred and was immediately placed under lockdown; the lockdown was lifted at 10 a.m. School, which was being held for the last day this year, was dismissed early as planned.

The police chief goes on 911 calls most weeks and had gone on this call because he was worried it might be dangerous for whoever responded, said Mount Airy police Capt. Richard Lowe.

"He told me one of the main reasons he went is concern for his officers," Lowe said.

Watson has been chief of police for nearly three years and on the force for about 16 years, starting as a patrol officer. He is married with two young children.

"He's a model human being," said Mount Airy Mayor Deborah Cochran. "He's got high character, high morals ... completely devoted to his job, his children, his family."

(336) 667-5691