Erin Hughes remembers Jason Arsenault as a sweet mannered young man who served his country onboard a Blackhawk helicopter with her husband.

Arsenault, 30, of Newton, died late Monday night after he was shot multiple times by police at the end of a vehicle pursuit on Ross Clark Circle. Deputy Houston County Coroner Ben Earnest said Arsenault died around 10:30 p.m. at Southeast Alabama Medical after he suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the torso area of his body.

Earnest said Arsenault wore his Army dress uniform, which included several ribbons on it, at the time of his death. According to his obituary, Arsenault served two tours in Iraq until he medically retired in 2008.

Erin Hughes said Arsenault served as a crew chief on a Blackhawk helicopter while in Iraq with her husband, Henry Hughes. She said he earned three medals for his service in the Army in the Middle East, but that he also showed symptoms of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

“He was a groomsman in our wedding. We knew him very well,” she said. “This was an innocent Army veteran who needed help.”

His obituary states that more recently he worked at Fort Rucker at Army Fleet Support as a helicopter mechanic. He retired from the Army with the rank of sergeant. Arsenault had two sons.

Dothan Police Chief Greg Benton and Houston County Sheriff Andy Hughes released a joint statement about some of the circumstances surrounding the fatal shooting. The statement said agents with the Alabama Bureau of Investigation are looking into what happened.

Benton and Sheriff Andy Hughes released the following details from the events leading up to the fatal shooting: Dothan police officers responded to a call of an accident involving injuries at the intersection of West Main Street and John D. Odom Road. Police were apparently told a vehicle had left the crash and was headed eastbound on West Main Street. Police found the vehicle in a parking lot on West Main Street and called for negotiators after Arsenault apparently left the vehicle and held a gun to his head. Before officers could speak to him, Arsenault apparently got back in the vehicle and continued driving eastbound on Main Street.

A high-speed pursuit started, ending in the 3400 block of Ross Clark Circle near the Hooters restaurant after a deputy used a PIT maneuver, forcing the pursued vehicle off the roadway. The deputy’s patrol car also left the roadway, coming to rest beside the pursued vehicle. The police statement said Arsenault “brandished” a handgun and exchanged gunfire with police. The deputy involved in stopping Arsenault’s vehicle suffered some minor injuries.

Sheriff Andy Hughes said Deputy Alan Hendrickson was treated and released from a local hospital.

“We’re not exactly sure if he (Arsenault) fired any rounds,” Sheriff Andy Hughes said. “He had a gun in his hand so he was definitely a danger.”

Alabama State Troopers also assisted in responding to the pursuit.

Erin Hughes said the incident left her questioning why Arsenault was shot so many times.

“If he’d already put a gun to his head, that doesn’t mean he was trying to harm anyone else,” Erin Hughes said. “Was it really necessary to shoot him in the chest? They could’ve negotiated. They could’ve shot his hand.

“We’re going to miss him very much. I love Jason to death. He was not a criminal, and he was not dangerous. He was a good person, and this should not have ended the way it did.”