A jury awarded $1 million to the mother of a Lake Elsinore man shot and killed by a Riverside County sheriff’s deputy in 2011, the plaintiff’s lawyers announced Tuesday.

The award granted Monday to Arturo Fernandez’s mother comes two months after another jury gave almost $8 million to a convicted robber who was partially paralyzed after a deputy shot him as he hid from authorities.

Fernandez, 20, was shot once in the head June 17, 2011, during an early-morning traffic stop in Lake Elsinore. Fernandez was driving a stolen pickup, authorities said at the time.

According to sheriff’s officials, Fernandez drove the pickup at a deputy and rammed his patrol car. The deputy, identified in court documents at Christopher Wicker, feared for his life and shot at Fernandez, officials said.

Fernandez was taken to a local hospital, where he died two days later when his mother decided to take him off life support, court filings show.

Fernandez’s mother, Maria Munoz, sued the deputy and the county in January 2014. The wrongful-death lawsuit contended that Fernandez’s constitutional rights were violated.

“Defendant Wicker had no legal justification for using force against Arturo Fernandez and Wicker’s use of force was unreasonable,” the lawsuit read.

Fernandez pulled into an apartment complex parking lot and Wicker, who had been tailing him in a patrol car, blocked Fernandez from leaving, according to a news release from Munoz’s law firm.

Munoz’s lawyers said Fernandez, who did not have a gun, was shot without warning and that Wicker was out of harm’s way to the left of his patrol car when he fired. The pickup already had hit the patrol car, meaning there was no immediate threat to the deputy, the lawyers maintained.

The trial in Riverside County Superior Court started Aug. 11 and ended Aug. 20, and jury deliberations took about three days, Munoz’s lawyers said.

In a telephone interview, Munoz said she was “very happy” with the verdict. Money wasn’t her motivation, she said. “It’s going to tell everyone out there that (police) can’t just kill someone because they have the right to have a gun,” she said.

County spokesman Ray Smith said the county “is disappointed with the verdict and is evaluating its options for an appeal.”

Sheriff’s officials also were not pleased.

“The Riverside County Sheriff’s Department is obviously very disappointed with the verdict,” said Sgt. Mike Manning, a department spokesman. “It will be a decision of the county as to any decision regarding an appeal.”

It is the second time this summer the county has been held liable in a deputy-involved shooting. In June, a federal jury determined that William Howard should receive $7.81 million from injuries sustained when a deputy shot him in the face as he hid in a storage shed.

Howard, 31, was running from police who had been looking for him for about a year. He was wanted in connection with the armed robbery of a woman in Indian Wells.

Howard, who is partially paralyzed on the left side of his body, eventually pleaded guilty to robbery.

Sheriff’s officials support the deputy who shot Howard, saying Deputy Armando Munoz “was required to make a split-second decision in the defense of his life.”

The Riverside County district attorney’s office cleared deputies of criminal wrongdoing in the Fernandez and Howard shootings.

Staff writer Brian Rokos contributed to this story.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9547 or jhorseman@pressenterprise.com