Fontana police justifiably shot dead a drunken-driving suspect who brandished a machete-like knife, then sped toward officers in a narrow driveway, San Bernardino County District Attorney’s officials say.

About eight gunshots hit 27-year-old Jonathan Ordonez in the head, neck and back during a confrontation outside his Fontana home on June 18, 2011, an autopsy surgeon determined.

Lab tests showed that his his blood and urine contained about three to four times the amount of alcohol that is the presumptive limit for drunken driving in California.

“Officer Leonard Sein initiated a traffic stop on Jonathan Ordonez. This ignited a high-speed pursuit during which Jonathan Ordonez brandished a (knife with a)10-inch blade … against several officers and attempted to hit and run over officers with a car,” Supervising Deputy District Attorney William Lee said in a 22-page report released Monday, Nov. 10.

“Ordonez was the provocateur at every point during this incident,” Lee concluded. “When Ordonez accelerated his car at the officers, those officers were compelled to respond with lethal force.”

The report clears Sein, Sgt. James Burton, and three other officers, including Shane McCoy and Mario Mancha, of any criminal wrongdoing.

The report does not explain why its release comes nearly 3-1/2 years after the incident and why one of the officers is referred to only as Officer #3.

Ordonez’s parents told police that their son suffered from depression and had anti-depressants that the parents weren’t sure he was taking, according to the report.

“Ordonez drank heavily and was a ‘moody drunk,’ though they never saw him become violent,” the document continues. “He has been arrested for driving under the influence and was nervous of officers because he feared being incarcerated.”

He reacted poorly to a recent break-up with a long-term girlfriend, his parents told police. But hours before the fatal shooting, he’d appeared normal, they said.

The trouble began when the BMW that Ordonez was driving nearly collided with Sein’s patrol car on Foothill Avenue. Sein pulled him over and later reported that Ordonez slurred and mumbled his words and had watery, bloodshot eyes.

Ordering him to sit on a curb, Sein returned to his patrol car to run a records check — until Ordonez stood up, returned to the BMW and grabbed what officers described as a 10 to 15-inch-long miniature machete.

“Sein would have been justified in using deadly force when Ordonez approached while armed with the knife,” Lee wrote. “He did not (open fire), of course.

“So, Ordonez fled in his car. What ensued was a dangerous high-speed pursuit … during which Ordonez neared 90-mph, ran red lights, and almost collided with other cars.”

Ordonez stopped again — and brandished the knife at several officers.

The chase ended in a driveway outside the Ordonez family’s home along the 8100 block of Catawba Avenue.

During the ensuing confrontation, officers used a bean bag shotgun to shatter the BMW’s rear window so they could send a police dog into the car to help apprehend him. That effort ended when the BMW raced toward them in reverse gear.

Pistol and rifle fire ended the threat.

“Each and every officer involved in this incident acted within the law,” Lee wrote. “This is a clear case of self-defense and defense-of-others.”