Michael Maguire, a 36-year-old white man, was shot and killed by SWAT officers on Friday, July 1 in the 6100 block of Roseby Street in Long Beach, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

Officers responded to a call at a residence regarding a possible hostage situation about 12:15 p.m., according to a Long Beach Police Department news release.

Maguire's wife had called police and said that her husband was making threats to her family. She told them that he was known to carry guns and knives.

Authorities learned that earlier in the morning, Maguire broke into his estranged wife's parent’s home, assaulted one of the parents and tied them up.

Officials said Maguire then contacted his wife around 8:30 a.m. and told her to bring their children to the home. If she contacted police or failed to bring the kids, Maguire would kill her parents, police said.

The Long Beach SWAT team responded to the home and secured the neighborhood, officials said. Based on the threat that Maguire would kill the hostages if he saw the police, authorities concealed themselves to avoid being seen by Maguire.

The assailant and one of the hostages exited the back of the house around 4 p.m., at which point authorities confronted Maguire, officials said.

Maguire attempted to push the hostage back into the house, when the SWAT team shot at him. Paramedics were called, and Maguire was pronounced dead at the scene. Coroner's records show he was shot in the head, torso, left arm and left thumb.

After the shooting, one of the hostages needed some medical treatment, but was later released, officials said.

The Long Beach Police Department, Los Angeles County coroner’s office and Los Angeles County district attorney’s office are conducting an investigation of the officer-involved shooting.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Long Beach Dets. David Rios or Roger Zottneck at (562) 570-7244. Anonymous tips can also be sent to the department’s website at www.longbeach.gov/police.

-- Los Angeles Times