A man who was a back-seat passenger in a car stopped for no taillight gave Portland police "false information" and then ran from police. After he was caught by police, he suffered a medical problem and died at a local hospital before he got to jail.



The state medical examiner's office this morning identified the man as 26-year-old Darris Eugene Johnson.



An autopsy showed he had a "significantly enlarged heart" and no traumatic injuries, Portland police said. The cause of death is pending the results of toxicology tests.





Johnson died at Portland Adventist Medical Center after he fled police and was arrested. He tested positive for meth and marijuana and might have had a heart attack, Portland police said Sunday.

Johnson was one of two back-seat passengers in a 1988 Cadillac that police stopped at Southeast 122nd Avenue and Bush Street at 4:08 a.m. Sunday, according to a news release. Police noticed he wasn't wearing a seatbelt and asked for his identification. Police intended to cite him for providing false information, but he ran as officers re-approached the car.

Officers later saw him hiding behind a house in the 12300 block of Southeast Bush Street and took him into custody using no force, police said Sunday.

As officers were chasing the suspect, a dispatcher indicated the suspect had a felony arrest warrant for a drug-related parole violation. The suspect had run and jumped over three fences prior to being located.

Once stopped, he told police he was having trouble breathing, which was expected given the chase, police said in a prepared statement.

He got into the police car, and Officers Zach Zelinka, a two-year bureau member, and Justin Thurman, a 4-year bureau member, began to drive him to jail. During the drive, his condition got worse, according to the police.

The officers stopped the police car at Southeast Market Street and Cherry Blossom Drive, took off his handcuffs, called for an ambulance and did CPR on him until the ambulance arrived, according to the release. He was taken to Adventist Medical Center, arriving at 5:59 a.m., and died about an hour later, according to the release.

Investigators have learned that Johnson had a felony parole violation warrant stemming from a 2009 conviction for unlawful delivery of cocaine and resisting arrest. Police said Johnson had prior convictions for third-degree escape, unlawful delivery of marijuana and attempted second-degree robbery.

Detectives would like to hear from anyone who has information about Johnson's activities in the 24 hours preceding his death, specifically any information about drug use.

Anyone with information is encouraged to call Detective Chris Traynor at (503) 823-0449.

--