Prosecutors declined to file a manslaughter charge recommended by California Highway Patrol officials against an Alhambra police officer involved in an on-duty crash that claimed the life of a fellow officer in 2011, according to documents obtained by this newspaper.

Alhambra Police Officer Juan Carlos Mejia returned to work Nov. 20, Alhambra police Sgt. Jerry Johnson said. He will undergo several weeks of retraining before returning to patrol. He has been on leave since the crash more than three years ago.

Mejia drove a police car that collided with another being driven by 26-year-old Officer Ryan Stringer of Whittier as both officers were responding to an emergency call on July 10, 2011. Stringer died from injuries suffered in the crash, which also left Mejia with significant injuries.

California Highway Patrol officers assigned to investigate the crash recommended misdemeanor manslaughter charges be filed against Mejia, 31, in connection with the crash. But prosecutors at the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office reviewed the case and declined to file any charges.

Johnson declined to comment on the outcome of the recently concluded Alhambra Police Department’s administrative investigation into the fatal 2011 crash, citing privacy laws and department policy.

CHP investigators handled the probe into the crash and determined that “Officer Mejia’s actions were the primary collision factor,” according to a report compiled by the District Attorney’s Office.

The CHP concluded that traffic infractions committed by Mejia resulted in Stringer’s death, justifying a misdemeanor charge of manslaughter against the officer, according to the District Attorney’s Office report.

The recommended charge stemmed from the CHP’s conclusions that Mejia was not using his siren, and that he ran a red light while speeding, the report stated.

CHP investigators concluded that “each of the drivers in the collision bears some responsibility for its occurrence,” according to the reports. “Ultimately, Officer Mejia’s failure to slow or stop for the red signal and clear the intersection for cross-traffic was the critical link in the chain of events. …”

After analyzing the evidence, the District Attorney’s Office elected not to file charges against Mejia. “We find insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Juan Mejia committed the crime of vehicular manslaughter,” the district attorney’s report said. “Therefore, we decline to initiate criminal proceedings against Juan Mejia. We are closing our file and will take no further action in this matter.”

Stringer’s father, Sonny Stringer, said he was comfortable with Mejia returning to duty. The family also opposed criminal prosecution of Mejia, whom they described as a close friend of Ryan Stringer as well as a colleague.

“It was a tragedy. It was an accident. And that’s what I’ve told (Mejia) over and over again. You guys were doing your job.”

“There was probably a little responsibility on Ryan’s side and a little responsibility on Mejia’s side for what happened. I can’t blame it on (Mejia).”

Mejia didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. An email request to the police officers association went unanswered.

The Stringer and Mejia families remain in contact, Sonny Stringer added.

“I have a lot of respect for Juan. It started when we had the memorial,” Sonny Stringer said. “Juan got out of his hospital bed. He came to the memorial. He was hurting. He was all beaten up. He put his arms around me and told me he was sorry. That took a lot of guts.”

Sonny Stringer has begun volunteering at the Alhambra Police Department following his son’s death, and the department has been supportive of the Stringer family.

The Police Department also administers a scholarship fund in Ryan Stringer’s name, Sonny Stringer said. It awarded $1,000 scholarships to 15 students last year, and another five this year. Donations to the fund can be made through the police department.

“Ryan was one of the good guys. Everybody liked him. We still have people get in contact with us and tell us stories about him… and how respectful he was,” his father said. “It’s a hard thing to go through for the family. I have four daughters left. We think about Ryan every day.”

The Stringer family has not filed any civil claim against Alhambra or the Alhambra Police Department.

Mejia and Stringer were both responding to a report of a possible robbery at First and Main streets just before 2:30 a.m. when the crash occurred, according to the district attorney’s office report.

No arrests or police report resulted from the call, police said.

Mejia’s and Stringer’s patrol cars collided in the intersection of Garfield Avenue and Main Street as Mejia was driving north on Garfield Avenue at a minimum speed of 45 mph in a stretch of road with a 25 mph speed limit. Stringer’s car was westbound on Main Street at 57.6 mph in a 30 mph speed limit zone.

“The officers simultaneously approached the traffic light controlled intersection of Garfield Avenue and Main Street at speeds well above the limits,” according to the district attorney’s office report.

“A building on the southeast corner, called Alhambra Place, was between the two officers, limiting their sight distances as they approached the intersection.”

“In the middle of the intersection, the front right corner of Mejia’s patrol car collided violently into the middle of the left corner of Stringer’s patrol car. Neither officer braked before impact.”

Stringer died from his injuries later that morning at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, officials said. Mejia suffered injuries including a fractured collar bone, fractured ribs and cuts to his head and hands.

Neither officer was wearing a seat belt, District Attorney’s Office investigators determined.

USC Law Professor Jody Armour questioned the District Attorney’s Office’s apparent dismissal of the investigative findings of the CHP.

Though the CHP team responsible for investigating the crash determined Mejia’s driving was criminal and that he did not use his siren prior to the crash, district attorney’s officials wrote in their report supporting the decision not to file charges that both allegations were in question and would be difficult or impossible to prove in court.

“How can they argue that a jury of reasonable minds might not be able to differ if the CHP differs from them?” Armour said. “There’s at least enough evidence for reasonable minds to differ, and that’s all you need to get it to a jury.”

The result is, at the very least, a perception of bias in favor of police, he said.

“The DA seems to repeatedly disregard the CHP’s characterization of the accident as criminal and go for characterization of the accident that shields the officer from criminal liability,” Armour said. “It can have the unsavory appearance of favoritism.”

Armour said the case highlights the large amount of discretion prosecutors have when deciding whether to file criminal charges in an investigation.

“There’s so much discretion built into the system,” he said. “It’s completely open-ended.”

Armour added that because district attorney’s officials have such a great deal of discretion, there is a lot of room for “conscious or unconscious biases” on the part of prosecutors.

“It seems on the scales of justice, there’s a thumb in favor of law enforcement,” Armour said.

Though they work for different agencies and carry out different roles, prosecutors have a “special relationship” with police, whom they work with every day.

“There’s an inherent conflict of interest,” Armour said. “Maybe consciously or unconsciously, they may not be as zealous in going after a co-worker or professional family member that they would going after someone else.”

Los Angeles County District Attorney’s officials in August declined to prosecute Los Angeles County sheriff’s Deputy Andrew Wood, who struck and killed bicyclist Milton Olin Jr. of Woodland Hills, a 65-year-old entertainment executive and former Napster executive, in a bicycle lane while allegedly distracted typing on his patrol car computer in Calabasas on Dec. 8, 2013. In support of the decision not to charge Wood in connection with the cyclists’ death, prosecutors said Wood’s computer use was legal, and there was insufficient evidence of negligence to support a criminal charges.

A similar scenario unfolded in La Habra in recent years.

A La Habra police officer crashed into a Chrysler PT Cruiser after running a red light at the intersection of La Habra Boulevard and Euclid Avenue on April 5, 2009. Charles Anthony Antuna, 54, and his wife Susanne Marie Antuna, 55, both of La Habra, died as a result of the crash.

CHP investigators recommended manslaughter charges be filed against Officer Nancy Garcia after concluding she drove through a red light at the intersection at high speed. The officer was traveling at 89 mph as she approached the intersection, and 62 mph or faster at the time of impact, an attorney representing the Antuna family said at the time.

But after a five-month-long review of the case, Orange County District Attorney’s officials concluded there was insufficient evidence to support any criminal charge.

The Antuna family settled a wrongful death suit with La Habra in November of 2010. The terms of the settlement were not available Friday.

The attorney who represented the Antuna family could not be reached for comment.

Officer Garcia was placed on desk duty during the investigation, officials said at the time. She remains employed by the La Habra Police Department, but is no longer a sworn officer, La Habra police spokeswoman Cindy Knapp said. Further details on Garcia’s employment status were not available.