PASCAGOULA, Mississippi -- Police Sgt. Cory Thompson was cleared of any wrongdoing in the shooting death of Floyd Beverly, Jr. today, when a Jackson County grand jury reported that the officer acted in self-defense.

John Carl Weihing, grand jury foreman, reported the findings to Circuit Judge Robert Krebs at the Jackson County Courthouse in Pascagoula this morning.

Thompson's police cruiser was mounted with a dash camera that recorded the July 13 shooting, Weihing said.

"Floyd Beverly opened his driver-side car door and put both feet on the ground, but did not get out of the seat," Weihing said. "Sgt. Thompson exited his vehicle and gave a loud command for Floyd Beverly Jr. to show his hands. Floyd Beverly, Jr. stood up, exited the vehicle with a handgun in his right hand, and pointed the handgun at Sgt. Thompson."

Thompson fired 5 rounds at Beverly, 40, who fell to the ground. The officer ordered the wounded man to stay on the ground.

"Floyd Beverly then jumped up from the ground and pointed the gun at Sgt. Thompson again," Weihing said. "Sgt. Thompson fired another round at Floyd Beverly."

Weihing reported that Beverly was hit 4 times, once each in the chest, upper thigh, left leg and left foot. Six shell casings were recovered at the scene, Weihing reported.

Weihing explained to the judge that Pascagoula police were searching for Beverly because he was reported to have stabbed the mother of his child just moments before he was shot.

"Floyd Beverly, Jr. engaged in a physical confrontation with (the victim) and stabbed her with a pocket knife numerous times to the head and body," Weihing said of the evidence presented to the grand jury.

"The roommate of (the victim) called 911 at about 12:01 a.m. July 13," Weihing said.

Jury members watched a videotaped testimony of the victim as part of the proceeding. "(The victim) identified her attacker as Floyd Beverly, Jr.," Weihing said.

Beverly's family filed a complaint with the NAACP on July 17, alleging they were not properly notified about his death and that he received multiple gunshot wounds.