TAMMS - The sleepy Alexander County town of Tamms got a rude awakening when a police pursuit through the village ended in a shooting, followed by the discovery of a body in the suspect vehicle Tuesday.

The violence that led to the death of Bobby W. Curtis, 48, and the discovery of the body of his 50-year-old wife, Lisa K. Curtis, played out in front of neighbors on Fourth Street, between Mobile Home Road and Tennessee Street, just after 4 p.m.

Curtis, who state police said was undergoing a mental health evaluation when he walked away from Union County Hospital in Anna earlier this week, refused to pull over for an earlier traffic stop initiated by an Alexander County deputy and led the chase from Illinois 127 to the neighborhood where Viola Hodges and Richard Gray have homes.

Gray was mowing the lawn when he saw a Jaguar sedan followed by "bunch of police cars" coming down the road. As the chase rounded a sharp curve from Mobile Home Road onto Fourth Street, a police car "bumped the car to get it off the road is what it looked like to me," Gray said.

Curtis got out of the car wielding a sword, state police said. He first tried to injure himself with the sword but then approached an Alexander County deputy, brandishing the sword in a threatening manner.

"The cop was trying to get him to stop but he (Curtis) just kept coming toward him," said Gray, who has lived in Tamms, population 750, for more than 30 years. "Then pow. (Curtis) hit the ground. After they got him restrained, they went to the car and that's when they found her."

Curtis was taken to a Cape Girardeau hospital where he later died. The cause of Lisa K. Curtis' death has not been revealed by police, but Gray said he heard she had multiple stab wounds.

State police have released few details about the incident and the events leading up to it, but did say autopsies on the couple, who lived in Panama City, Fla., are pending.

"That's the first time I've ever seen anything like that and I hope it's the last time, too," Hodges said.

The drama occurred on the lawn next to Hodges' garage.

"I heard what sounded like a lot of cars and went to the porch to see what was going on. That man jumped out of his car and was headed toward my house. I didn't know what he was going to do. He kept coming on and then he was shot. Seemed like every state cop under the sun converged on us after that," she said.

The incident, which is still under investigation, was the talk of Tamms on Wednesday.

"We've got the prison here but it doesn't bother me. I feel like they're in control of it, but this ... it was really unnerving. I'm glad it's over and I hope it doesn't happen again," Hodges said.

More information is expected to be released by state police today.

618-927-5633

On Twitter: @beckymalkovich