Gift Article Share

Houston police officer Jordan Greenhaw said he was pursuing an all-terrain vehicle down a power-line easement when the driver turned, tipped and rolled the ATV under his patrol car. Greenhaw said he got out and arrested the passenger. Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight “Did your buddy get away?” Greenhaw said he asked him, according to court testimony reported this week by Courthouse News Service.

Then, he said, he noticed a pair of legs protruding from under his police car.

The driver was pinned, his torn T-shirt tangled up in the tire. Greenhaw testified that he heard the teen crying for help.

“Get this thing off me; it hurts,” 19-year-old Jason Trevino said, the officer recalled. “Get this off me. I can’t breathe.”

Greenhaw jumped back into his patrol car to move it, according to reports, but the engine would not start. So he called a tow truck for help.

Advertisement

Trevino was rushed to a hospital with broken ribs, a shattered sternum and skin ripped from his legs and his hands. He died hours later.

Following a years-long civil-rights battle, Greenhaw was cleared of all liability by a jury Wednesday in U.S. District Court.

Trevino’s parents, Lloyd Trevino and Catherine Cortez, had sued the officer for excessive force over the fatal 2011 incident, saying their son was unarmed and posed no threat when he was killed.

Attorneys for the family brought the civil case against Greenhaw and the city of Houston in 2013, arguing that Greenhaw violated the Fourth Amendment in using excessive force; the city, they said, violated the 14th Amendment in failing to properly train the officer.

No criminal charges were filed against Greenhaw.

Randall Kallinen, an attorney for Trevino’s mother, said Thursday that was disappointed by the jury’s verdict in the civil suit because the “complete lack of training” for off-road pursuits means there are no systems in place to prevent future tragedies.

Advertisement

“He didn’t have the training that would prevent this type of incident from happening,” Kallinen said of Greenhaw.

Following the verdict, Trevino’s aunt, Carol Ludtke, told Courthouse News Service that she approached Greenhaw and asked him for an apology for her nephew’s death.

But the officer refused, she said — shaking his head and walking away in silence.

Trevino and his friend, Bernard Seetaram, were accused of stealing a fishing boat and a trailer from a back yard in northeast Houston in the early morning hours on July 27, 2011, according to Courthouse News Service.

One officer later told the court that he saw the pair pulling it behind the ATV.

The officer pursued them, he testified, but he lost them down a dark dirt road.

Greenhaw said he caught up with them hours later and resumed the chase.

Advertisement

“Hindsight is 20/20 and I could have done a lot of things better,” he said, according to Courthouse News Service. “I could have avoided striking the ATV. I could have stayed farther back, let them crash, then went and arrested them.”

Seetaram testified that Greenhaw hit the ATV twice, causing them to crash.

“The second collision destroyed the ATV and flipped it on its side, killing Jason Trevino,” according to the civil complaint filed in March 2013.

The Houston Police Department said it does not comment on civil litigation and referred The Post to the mayor’s office. A mayoral spokesperson could not be immediately reached for comment.

The city’s attorney, Henry Carnaby, said he also could not comment on the case.

Joe Gamaldi, second vice president for the Houston Police Officers Union, said the organization did not see Greenhaw’s actions as an excessive force violation.

Advertisement

“But of course it’s a tragedy when anyone loses their life,” Gamaldi told The Post.

Grace Weatherly, an attorney for Trevino’s father and the estate, said the verdict inflicted even more pain on the family.

“You never want the family to be in a worse position for having brought the case,” she told The Post. “To relive this entire event and how they learned about the death and then testify in front of strangers about it is very difficult for the family.

“It’s going through all of that for nothing — for no result.”

MORE READING: