Family members of the man killed by a Jersey City police officer on Saturday said yesterday the felon would never have pointed a gun at a cop and they want to see any evidence that proves otherwise.

“Let’s just get the truth,” said Tyra Henry, the cousin of Deron Kittrell, 28, of Wade Street, who was killed at 2 a.m. by Officer Louis Mecka at Monticello Avenue near Brinkerhoff Street. “If we could have the truth, we could bow out.”

Kittrell’s uncle, Rob Henry, said, “My nephew was no angel, but my nephew was not crazy enough to pull a gun on an officer.”

Mecka responded on a call of shots being fired on Martin Luther King Drive near Clinton Avenue at 1:54 a.m. and saw Kittrell walking with a gun in his hand, Hudson County Prosecutor Edward DeFazio said.

The officer got out of his vehicle with his K-9 partner Froto and chased Kittrell when he refused to stop and started running, DeFazio said.

During the chase, Kittrell pointed the gun at Mecka and Froto and Mecka opened fire, DeFazio said, adding that the preliminary investigation has found the shooting justified.

Police recovered the Masterpiece Arms 9mm pistol with a 30-round clip at the scene, DeFazio said, adding the gun had no bullets but had been fired recently.

The gun manufacturer said the weapon can fire 30 rounds as fast as the shooter can pull the trigger and costs $450 to $490.

Mecca has been taken off-duty and is being provided counseling, officials said.

Kittrell was in state prison from June 6, 2003 to March 16, 2005 for a firearm offense and two counts of drug possession with intent to distribute near a school, according to corrections records.

Tyra Henry said yesterday she never thought her cousin would die by the hands of a police officer.

“It hurts,” she said, standing beside grieving friends and family members at a memorial to Kittrell near his mother’s Johnston Avenue home.

“I never thought it would be by the cops. He was shot in a robbery before and drove himself to the hospital. The cops, they are supposed to be here to serve and protect.”

Assemblyman Charles Mainor and state Sen. Sandra B. Cunningham visited Kittrell’s grieving mother Sunday.

“I did go over to the mother’s house, not to take sides but to console a mother who lost her child,” Mainor said yesterday. “We prayed, myself and Sen. Cunningham, and just consoled the mother.”

Mainor, a Jersey City police detective, visited Mecka yesterday.

Jersey City Councilwoman Viola Richardson and Hudson County Freeholder Jeffrey Dublin also visited Kittrell’s mother.

Last September, Mecka also fired his weapon in the line of duty.

At 3:14 a.m. on Sept. 12, he and Froto came upon three people shooting at each other at Martin Luther King Drive and Communipaw Avenue, reports said. When one man pointed a gun at Mecka, the officer fired two rounds at him, but missed, reports said.

Assisted by Froto, Mecka arrested the three Jersey City felons charged in the incident. Mecka’s use of force in that incident was found to be justified, DeFazio said yesterday.

Cop's three bullets removed from Kittrell's body

A 28-year-old Jersey City man died as a result of being shot three times by Jersey City Police Officer Louis Mecka on Saturday, and the medical examiner also found a bullet in his body from a prior shooting, officials said yesterday.

Deron Kittrell was shot twice in the upper left arm and once in the upper left chest by the officer early Saturday morning on Monticello Avenue, Hudson County Prosecutor Edward DeFazio said yesterday based on the preliminary autopsy report.

The prosecutor said Kittrell was carrying a gun and was apparently intoxicated when he ran from the officer and his K-9 partner Froto. DeFazio said Mecka shot Kittrell when Kittrell pointed the gun at the police officer and Froto.”

”During the autopsy performed at the state Regional Medical Examiner’s Office in Newark on Saturday, the bullet from a previous shooting was removed from Kittrell’s body, DeFazio said.

Kittrell’s cousin and his girlfriend told The Jersey Journal yesterday that Kittrell had been shot during a robbery against him and DeFazio confirmed that information.