Syracuse, NY - A Syracuse police officer who shot and killed an armed suspect last month was justified in his actions, a grand jury concluded today.

That was the news Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick revealed this afternoon in announcing the grand jury opted not to file any charges against Officer Gordon Quonce III in the death of Dominique Smith.

Smith was shot and killed as he ran from and then pointed a gun at Quonce and Officer Henry Hilton the morning of July 30. Smith had a very high level of PCP in his system when he died, the prosecutor said.

Although the bullet that killed Smith struck him in the back of the head, Fitzpatrick said the evidence indicated Quonce could see a gun in Smith's hand when he fired and that Smith may have turned his head away at that same moment.

According to Fitzpatrick, Quonce fired one shot from his service weapon from a distance of about 25 feet. The bullet struck Smith about three inches to the right side of his left ear in the back of the head, traveling left to right, back to front and slightly downward, the DA said.

The medical examiner concluded Smith's death resulted from the shockwave to the brain stem caused by that bullet, Fitzpatrick said.

According to the DA, Smith had a small amount of marijuana and a high level of PCP in his system. A 9 mm handgun was found under his body where he fell in a field in the 1600 block of South State Street, Fitzpatrick said.

Fitzpatrick said Quonce was alone on patrol when he stopped a car at South State Street and Woodland Avenue for failing to signal a turn.

Quonce recognized Smith, who was a passenger in the vehicle, as a member of the Bricktown street gang and he directed him to remain in the car while he talked to the driver outside the vehicle, Fitzpatrick said.

But Smith got out of the car and ignored repeated warnings to get back in the vehicle, the DA said. Quonce noticed Smith was trying to pull something from the waistband of his pants near his hip and the officer unsuccessfully used his Taser to stop the suspect, Fitzpatrick said.

It was then that Officer Hilton arrived and Smith ran from the scene with the two officers in pursuit.

Quonce again fired his Taser at Smith but it appeared to have no impact on the fleeing suspect, the DA said. But the officer could see Smith with the gun in his hand turning back toward the officers, Fitzpatrick said.

That was when Quonce fired the one shot that struck Smith in the back of the head, the DA said.

According to the prosecutor, the incident ended about 100 yards from where it began about two minutes after it started.

The call about the traffic stop was recorded at the 911 center at 2:45:55 a.m., Fitzpatrick said. The foot chase was reported at 2:47:40 and the call for a supervisor -- indicating the suspect had been shot -- came just 17 seconds later, the DA said.

Fitzpatrick said a number of civilian witnesses testified before the grand jury about what they saw that morning. He declined to offer specifics, citing the secrecy of grand jury proceedings.

While Chief Assistant District Attorney Joseph Coolican said the witnesses' view of what happened was affected by the darkness of the area at the time, Fitzpatrick said there had been enough light for Quonce to clearly see the gun in Smith's hand before the officer fired the shot.

View full size

According to Fitzpatrick, the medical examiner also found a bullet in Smith's leg that apparently was from an earlier shooting unrelated to the police encounter. The DA also said he was convinced that had Quonce not shot Smith, Smith would have opened fire on Quonce and Hilton.

Fitzpatrick said it was sad that the 21-year-old Smith lost his life. But the DA said he'd rather be talking about that than discussing the prosecution of Smith for murdering or attempting to murder the two police officers.

Fitzpatrick said officials were still investigating the weapon found under Smith's body to see if it can be linked to any other incidents. The day of the shooting, Police Chief Frank Fowler said authorities believed it had been used by Smith in a shooting several days earlier on Hickory Street in the city.