ELGIN -- An allegation that a police officer killed an Elgin businessman in an unprovoked attack earlier this month is adding fuel to a movement to dismantle the tiny police department in this northeastern Oregon sawmill town.

said Union County District Attorney Timothy R. Thompson.

The shooting occurred in front of Shafer's wife, Gloria, and 11-year-old son, John..

Thompson said. Gloria Shafer afterward told investigators that her husband had picked up his assault-style AR-15 rifle only to carry it out to his pickup and unloaded it in front of the officer.

Kilpatrick suddenly "snapped" after her husband unloaded the rifle and began yelling, "Put down the gun, put down the gun," she told the Observer newspaper in La Grande. She said Kilpatrick used a stun gun on her husband, then shot him.

But Union County Undersheriff Craig Ward said bullet strikes to Shafer's rifle from the officer's .45-caliber handgun suggest the rifle was pointed directly at Kilpatrick from shoulder level.

"You can make of that what you will," Ward told about 140 people at an Elgin City Council meeting this week. Fragments from at least one bullet and possibly two hit the rifle, he said.

The shooting appears to have driven a wedge between many in the town of 1,711, shaking people up like nothing since a drug-fueled triple homicide outside the city limits in 2009.

At least a dozen people at Tuesday's council meeting sharply criticized Kilpatrick and called for the council to disband the three-man police department. Noisy applause greeted one resident's call for the police chief and mayor to resign.

One faction insists Kilpatrick is a rogue cop with a penchant for driving fast, pointing guns at residents and using his Taser. Others say he's a good officer being pilloried unfairly.

"Eric wouldn't do something like that," resident Art Rhodes said after the meeting adjourned. "I have known Eric since he was a kid."

Police Chief Kevin Lynch described the 38-year-old Kilpatrick as "a very nice, intelligent man, he's a family man, he cares about his community." He declined to say if Kilpatrick had ever faced disciplinary action during his roughly four years at the department.

Many of the people complaining the loudest, Lynch said, are upset about earlier run-ins of their own with police and don't represent general local opinion. "A lot of them are anti-government," he said. "They don't want any law enforcement."

But unhappiness with the Police Department isn't new. The City Council last month scheduled a special session this month to explore the idea of contracting with the Union County Sheriff's Office for future law enforcement services, but Mayor John Stover canceled it after Shafer's death because he thought emotions were running too high. The council has now rescheduled the session for next week.

In the meantime, the county district attorney's office is investigating what happened.

"We are treating this as a homicide," Thompson said. "We don't know where this is going to go or what the end result will be." A report by the Union County Major Crimes Team may be issued in about two weeks, he said.

Kilpatrick has remained at an undisclosed location on standard administrative leave and was unavailable for comment Wednesday, Lynch said.

Investigators haven't divulged whether Shafer's rifle actually was unloaded as Gloria Shafer claims, Lynch said. It may have been difficult for Kilpatrick to be sure the rifle held no bullets even if Shafer appeared to take them out, he said.

"Domestic dispute calls can change directions in a heartbeat," Lynch said. "If someone was pointing an AR-15 at me, I'm going to take some kind of action. I think the evidence will show he did what was right."

--