MEDIA – Investigators from the Delaware County District Attorney’s office have cleared a Chester police officer in the fatal shooting of a man who pointed a loaded handgun at him during a foot chase earlier this year.

Calling the probe into the Aug. 5 shooting of Daniel Simms “exhaustive and thorough,” outgoing District Attorney G. Michael Green said investigators from his Special Investigation Unit found the use of deadly force by the Chester police officer was justified.

The name of the officer involved was not released by the DA’s office.

Authorities said police had been on the lookout for Simms after receiving information from Pennsylvania State Police that he had been carrying a gun for several days.

At 7:50 p.m. Aug. 5, officers on routine patrol spotted Simms in the first block of East 23rd Street and attempted to make a pedestrian stop.

When Simms fled, one officer chased him on foot while another searched for him by car, according to court documents. Simms ran between houses at 41 and 43 E. 23rd St.

At the rear of 41 E. 23rd St., Simms displayed a handgun, court documents indicate. One of the officers discharged his firearm, striking Simms in the back. He was transported to Crozer-Chester Medical Center where he was pronounced dead at 8:10 p.m.

“At the time the officer discharged his service revolver, Daniel Simms pointed a loaded and operable Ruger .380 handgun at the officer … (T)he officer reasonably believed his life to be in danger of serious bodily injury or death … The investigation and review of this matter is complete,” Green said in his statement.

An autopsy found that the bullet that killed Simms entered 3 inches away from his spine, at an angle from the right and traveled left in an upward trajectory, coming to rest in the heart muscle.

The bullet was removed and admitted into evidence.

Crime scene investigators recovered a fully loaded pistol, equipped with a laser sight system at the scene. The weapon had been reported stolen to Pennsylvania State Police.

Sources familiar with the probe into the shooting said that Simms’ DNA was found on the gun recovered at the scene. It was the only DNA found on the weapon, they added. Toxicology reports showed that Simms was high on Oxycontin at the time of the shooting, sources said.

According to the statement released by Green this morning, detectives conducted numerous interviews and recovered physical and forensic evidence “all of which is clear and consistent” with their findings.

In the days after the fatal shooting, the Simms family and others demanded the dismissal of the officer who fired the fatal shot.

Attorney Steven Wigrizer, who represents the Simms family, was informed of the finding during a meeting with Green on Thursday morning. Simms’ family was also at that meeting.

“This was a very emotional moment for the family,” Wigrizer said. “It’s a tragic loss. A young man with a child is dead.”

After the meeting Wigrizer said he was given an opportunity to review the investigative materials, but his review was not completed because of time constraints.

He expected to complete the review sometime after the first of the year and said he would issue a statement on behalf of the family at that time.

Chief Deputy District Attorney Jackson M. Stewart, Jr. informed Chester Police Chief Darren of the results of the probe. Alston could not immediately be reached, but Chester Detective James Nolan, president of Chester F.O.P. William Penn Lodge 19 said he was glad the investigation is finished.

“We’re pleased that the full investigation proves what we believed all along,” Nolan said.

While noting that officer involved could very well have been injured or killed in the pursuit, he also expressed sympathy for Simms’ loved ones.

“We offer our condolences to the Simms family over the unfortunate incident,” Nolan said.

The officer involved in the shooting suffered an injury during the incident and remains off-duty for medical reasons.