August 20, 2011 (La Mesa) – Police officers fired multiple shots, killing a shotgun-wielding man late last night near La Mesa's downtown village Pine Court in La Mesa remains closed until at least mid- morning today between University Avenue and Allison while authorities conduct an investigation.

La Mesa Police dispatch began receiving 911 calls around 11:18 p.m. last night reporting a man with a gun in the neighborhood of 8300 Pine Ct., La Mesa. An initial call reported a woman screaming, followed by an additional call of a possible domestic dispute and a man with a gun. At least one additional caller reported a man with a rifle. One caller reported the suspect pointed his rifle at a neighbor’s door where the female from the domestic dispute had fled.

Officers quickly staged at Pine Street and University Avenue. Dispatch reported the man with the gun was on Pine Court, walking toward Pine Street. The officers walked north on Pine St. toward the suspect’s reported location, according to La Mesa Police. Some officers were armed with rifles, some with pistols.

Officers identified themselves and ordered the suspect to drop his weapon. The suspect racked a shotgun as if chambering a round and then pointed the shotgun at the approaching officers.Officers opened fire and the suspect was struck by at least one round. Officers rendered medical aide to the suspect and called for paramedics. The suspect died at the scene. It is unknown at this time how many rounds actually struck the suspect or were fired by officers.

La Mesa Police Detectives are currently on scene in the 4800 block of Pine St. conducting the officer involved shooting investigation. Pine St. between University Ave. and Allison Ave. will be closed at least until mid-morning on Saturday.

Authorities have not yet identified the suspect. However La Mesa Today interviewed family members at the scene who identified the dead man as Andrew Joseph Yacko, 35, of La Mesa, a journeyman electrician who worked until May 1 at the San Onofre nuclear power station.

"I don't blame the police; they did what they had to do,'' Yacko's brother Michael Yacko Jr. said this morning. "He was a good kid. He just made a mistake.''

Officers searched the neighborhood for any additional victims and to locate bullets that were fired. No additional victims were found. This investigation is continuing.

