HOUSTON

The chase came to an end on Calvin at Mount in a crash and reported gunfire. The Harris County Sheriff's Office says at least one deputy fired his weapon and a suspect was killed.

A spokesperson with the Harris County Sheriff's Office says it started when the two men were reported to be involved in armed robberies of at least two taquerias near Ella and West Mount Houston earlier Friday. A deputy spotted the suspects' vehicle and attempted to stop it. A pursuit ensued after deputies say the suspects didn't stop.

During the five-minute chase, HCSO says the suspects crashed into a civilian vehicle, then a HCSO patrol car. The suspects tried to flee and struck three patrol cars. Then, according to HCSO, it turned into a shooting.

"(The suspects' car) struck one of our deputies' units in the middle of the intersection colliding," HCSO Deputy Thomas Gilliland said. "At that point, the deputy exited his vehicle, and for reasons unknown at this time, fired his weapon into the vehicle, striking both suspects."

The passenger was dead at the scene. The driver was transported to Ben Taub Hospital.

Because there were so many deputies and witnesses around at the time of the shooting, there are different versions of the story.

"The men in the Explorer were still going and the other police hit them. As soon as the men hopped out, they started shooting, which is when the man lie down dead," witness Carnesha Clark said. "Like I feel that was wrong because he didn't have any weapons or anything, so I feel wrong that he had to die and not have nothing. And then he was dead and they still handcuffed him."

When we asked the HCSO if they knew whether the suspects actually had a weapon, they say when the suspects allegedly committed those robberies, they showed a handgun. Whether they showed a weapon during the chase, however, deputies are still uncertain. But they suggested the men were dangerous anyway.

"He'd already sideswiped one vehicle, had been involved in an armed robbery and fleeing from deputies at high rates of speed. These two were not going to stop for anyone," Gilliland said.

No deputies were injured. The driver in the civilian car involved in the crash was also taken to Ben Taub Hospital.

The identities of the two suspects have not yet been released.