A botched armored car robbery turned into a bloody shootout Wednesday, as two brothers exchanged gunfire with a guard and two Pinole police officers, leaving one robber dead and a cop and two others injured.

It was not the first time brothers Pierre and Freddie Daniel were suspected of armored car robbery. Police had warrants issued for both in connection with a similar attempt in May at a bank a mile away, police sources said.

Pierre was shot to death Wednesday and his brother was wounded.

The guard underwent surgery and her condition was not known. The injured cop, a resource officer in Pinole schools, was hospitalized Wednesday with a shoulder wound.

“He has a heart of gold,” Pinole police Chief John Hardester said of the officer. “He is an excellent police officer.”

Wednesday’s holdup unraveled when the Loomis guard and two robbers shot rounds at one another about 9:20 a.m. in front of a Wells Fargo branch on Fitzgerald Drive. The guard wounded one man and was shot.

The robbers ran, one toward Fitzgerald Drive into the path of two Pinole police officers rushing to the emergency call.

Pierre Daniel shot one officer, Hardester said, and a second officer fired back, killing Pierre Daniel in a traffic lane.

Two other officers were at the scene when the shooting happened, said attorney Justin Buffington, who is representing the officer who fatally shot the suspect. He said the officers were surprised to find the suspects at the scene.

“They’d responded to armed robbery calls before, but usually when you get there the suspects have already fled,” Buffington said. The officers thought they were heading to a bank robbery, not an armored truck heist, he added.

The attorney described what led his client to shoot.

“(The suspect) wasn’t in flight at that point,” Buffington said. “It was more of a confrontation. At some point the suspect had lost control of his gun and it was on the ground. He saw the officers, he was ordered not to reach for it, and he went ahead and reached for it anyway and was shot.”

While he declined to identify the officer, Buffington said his client is in his 30s, a 10-year veteran of the department and has worked as a detective — even investigating other officer-involved shootings. It was the first time he has fired his gun at someone, he said, and it has left him shaken.

“He feels, of course, a sense of sadness. He was put in a situation where he was forced to use deadly force and this gentleman died,” Buffington said. “But ultimately, in retrospect, considering the threat presented to him, he’s 100 percent confident and I’m 100 percent confident that he did what he had to do.”

Witnesses described the suspect running from the scene.

“I saw a guy running; he was cutting across the intersection,” said Richmond resident Darius Butler, who was turning into the Pinole Vista Crossing shopping center. “Then I just saw him drop.”

The second brother briefly escaped, and droves of police from Richmond, Pinole, Hercules, San Pablo and the Contra Costa Sheriff’s Office combed the shopping center with dogs searching for him.

But emergency room workers at Doctors Medical Center in San Pablo reported that Freddie Daniel had arrived with a gunshot wound.

“We do not know how he got to the hospital,” Hardester said. “That is part of the investigation.”

Freddie’s injuries are not life threatening, police said.

Richmond detectives months ago arrested one brother and 25-year-old Richmond resident Marquell Dillard after they tried to grab a bag of money from an armored transport guard May 25 at a bank near Hilltop mall, law enforcement sources said.

Dillard remains in County Jail, charged with robbery. After warrants were issued, prosecutors lacked sufficient evidence to charge the Daniel brothers, police said.

Wednesday’s brazen morning heist startled Richmond resident Ted Alba, who was pumping gas at a Shell station across from the bank branch when he heard three or four gunshots.

“I saw what appeared to be a suspect running from the bank in the direction of Applebee’s and Outback,” said Alba, referring to restaurants across the street from the shooting site.

“At first I thought he was OK, but then I saw there was something wrong, like he’d been hit,” Alba said.

In the aftermath, streets and offramps were shut down and Tara Hills Elementary School in San Pablo and Crespi Middle School in El Sobrante, which is behind the shopping center, were temporarily locked down.

The District Attorney’s Office sent investigators to lead a probe of the gunfights, which is routine whenever there is an officer-involved shooting.

The FBI also visited the site as it often does with bank robberies.

Staff writers Sean Maher, Malaika Fraley and Shelly Meron contributed to this report.