JEFFERSON CITY, Mo – A man in his mid-20s killed three people and wounded four others at a manufacturing plant here before turning his weapon on himself in front of the police headquarters, authorities said this morning.

Jefferson City Police Department spokesman Capt. Jim Johnson said Jonathan Russell, 25, of nearby Holts Summit, Mo., an employee at the Modine Manufacturing plant west of town, opened fire with a Glock .40 semi-automatic handgun around 10:45 p.m. shortly after arriving for the night shift and taking up his normal work position near the center of the plant.

TRENDING: Woman's mission for parental rights leads her to pro-life movement

Johnson said Russell first shot and killed two co-workers, Terry Wilson, 44, of Holts Summit, and Ricky Boortz, 29, of California, Mo., who worked nearby, then walked toward the exit of the plant, shooting supervisor Tim Wilbers, 44, of Holts Summit, along the way. Wilbers died enroute to an area hospital, officials said.

Russell then jumped into a small white pick up truck and drove about six miles into town, pulling into an alley next to the Jefferson City Police headquarters, which is near the city center and just blocks from the state Capitol. There he was spotted by Jefferson City police officer Patrick McCutcheon, who recognized his vehicle.

As McCutcheon approached the pickup, Russell reportedly fired at least one shot at him. McCutcheon returned fire with a 12-gauge shotgun.

Johnson was unclear whether McCutcheon struck Russell, but he said an autopsy scheduled to begin later this afternoon would determine that.

It was unclear why Russell drove to police headquarters.

RELATED: New Jersey to keep Trump's name off 2020 ballot?

Russell has been employed by Modine since Jan. 7, 2001. About 140 employees were present at the plant during the shooting.

Witnesses said Russell, who was not normally talkative with fellow employees, sat outside the plant by himself at a picnic table smoking a cigarette and drinking a soda before reporting for work, Cole County Sheriff John Heymeyer said.

Heymeyer said one unarmed female guard was on duty at a shack at the entrance to the plant at the time of the shootings.

Police say they have no motive for the shootings, but Johnson said employees of the plant have indicated that "some sort of job action" – perhaps a lay-off due to incurred demerits – was in the offing.

The four wounded persons were transported with various injuries to hospitals in Jefferson City and Columbia, 30 miles to the north. Police said some were just getting out of surgery as of 10:30 a.m., 12 hours after the attack.

Johnson said Russell had no extensive police record.

Russell legally purchased his handgun in June from Bob's Gun Shop west of town, police said. Johnson said the weapon was properly registered with authorities in Callaway County, just north of Jefferson City.

Modine Manufacturing is based in Racine, Wis., and makes air and oil filters for a number of engines.