LONG BEACH — Officials have identified a Long Beach man fatally shot by police Friday night.

Ismael Lopez, 29, was killed about 8 p.m. near 10th Street and Locust Avenue, said Lt. Cheryl MacWillie, an investigator with the Los Angeles County Coroner’s Office.

Lopez’s death followed a double stabbing in an apparent gang altercation, said Sgt. Rico Fernandez, a spokesman with the Long Beach Police Department.

Police had responded to a call near 10th Street and Locust Avenue, after a report that an unknown adult male had hit a 14-year-old girl, Fernandez said.

As officers approached the scene, they received another call that a group of male Latino gang members were fighting in front of the nearby Superior Market and someone had been shot in the stomach.

Witnesses directed police to the vehicle in the parking lot, saying the occupant of the car needed help, Fernandez said.

As the officers approached the vehicle which they thought was occupied by the assault victim, they noticed two men also walking toward it. The men fled and several officers pursued them, Fernandez said.

“During the pursuit, the actions of one of the suspects caused one of the officers to fear for his safety and/or the safety of the other officers and an officer-involved shooting occurred,” he said in the release.

Lopez was struck by the officer’s gunfire once in the upper torso, Fernandez said.

No weapon was found on Lopez. However, a knife was recovered in the path of his flight from police, Fernandez said.

During the course of the investigation, two stabbing victims were transported to a local hospital, where they are listed in stable condition.

A search warrant related to the fight was served later at a nearby residence, and a man was arrested in connection with the stabbings and a parole violation.

It is unknown if that is related to any of these events, Fernandez said.

In addition to the Long Beach Police Department’s ongoing investigation, the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office is conducting an independent investigation, routine for all officer-involved shootings in the county.

Anyone with information regarding the case is asked to call LBPD Homicide Detectives David Rios or Roger Zottneck at 562-570-7244. Anonymous tips can also be submitted via text or email by visiting the Department’s website, www.longbeach.gov/police.

phillip.zonkel@presstelegram.com, 562-499-1258