COLUMBIA, SC (WIS) - The man shot and killed by Columbia police after a college football game Saturday night had a history of arrests for drugs and other crimes, according to a background check.

PHOTO GALLERY



Click to view a gallery of the scene of an officer-involved shooting

Dexter Addison, 24, was killed around 8:00 p.m. at the intersection of Chestnut Street and Two Notch Road after being shot by an as-yet-unnamed Columbia police officer. A background check shows numerous marijuana and cocaine charges dating back to 2005, as well as charges of assault and disturbing schools in 2004.

Saturday night, investigators said officers responded to a number of shots being fired in the area and found several people exchanging gunfire into a large crowd. "These individuals that commit these acts are not there for the purpose of the game," said Columbia Police Chief Randy Scott. "They're there to cause harm. We saw that yesterday."

Officers said they saw Addison running from the location while shooting at officers, and Scott said the officer had no choice but to shoot. "What they did is a clear sign that they did their job," Scott said. "They ran to where the gunfire was taking place. They did not run away from it. That right there with the amount of gunfire that took place they saved lives by their actions."

Police said they don't believe anyone else was injured. "This is an extremely unfortunate incident," said Scott. "The Columbia Police Department supports the officer's decision in that other lives were saved and the public was protected."

SLED is investigating to see if the officer's actions were appropriate, and Scott said Columbia police are cooperating with the investigation. "I have been in contact with several community leaders this morning discussing the situation," added Scott. "We are going to ensure that we have a conversation with the community about game day safety in the City of Columbia."

"When you hear about instances of violence it makes you wary of going to any kind of outings," said Anthony Miles, one of several Benedict students who said they've always felt safe on campus and at football games.



But students admit Saturday night's shooting gives them pause. "When I heard about the shooting, I kind of got nervous about going," said Alisa Sprouse.



"It makes me a little nervous, but I think it should just make people more alert and aware of their surroundings," added Jamila Winston.



Scott says he wants the Classic to continue to attract large numbers, but in a safe way. "They want it to be a fun event people can remember, not remember for someone losing their life," said Scott.

Police also arrested John W. Tucker, 23, for possession of a firearm by a convicted felon and unlawful carrying of a pistol. Tucker is being held at the Alvin S. Glenn Detention Center.