ST. LOUIS COUNTY • A murderer who had served most of a 15-year sentence fatally shot himself Wednesday after forcing his way into his ex-girlfriend's apartment and taking three people hostage, authorities say.

Clarence Temple, 39, whose last known address was in the 4300 block of Chouteau Avenue in St. Louis, fired one or two shots inside the apartment but did not hit any of his three hostages. Police said the hostages were Temple's ex-girlfriend and two men. The woman and one of the men managed to escape. The third hostage was later released.

The man who escaped — by jumping through a sliding glass patio door — had some minor injuries, police said.

The victims told police that Temple and his ex-girlfriend were due in court Wednesday for a hearing on a restraining order she had filed against him, said Officer Rick Eckhard, a spokesman for the St. Louis County Police Department. St. Louis County courts could not produce records of the restraining order or of a hearing set for Wednesday.

The standoff began about 4 a.m. when a woman called police saying a man had stormed her apartment in the 6600 block of Chesapeake Drive in north St. Louis County. The apartment is part of Paddock Forest, a collection of garden homes, town houses and condos.

The county Police Department's tactical team surrounded the complex, which is northwest of Parker Road and Lewis and Clark Boulevard.

When they lost contact with him, they sent in a robot armed with a camera, Eckhard said. The robot found Temple dead inside the apartment at about 6:30 a.m. Police found a handgun near the man's body.

"It appears he took his own life," Eckhard told reporters.

Court records say Temple pleaded guilty to second-degree murder in 1997. He and another man had been charged in the killing of 17-year-old Ishman Richardson.

Richardson was found fatally shot in the head Oct. 31, 1994, in the rear basement stairwell of a house in the 4500 block of Oakland Avenue in the city's Forest Park Southeast neighborhood.

Temple served 12½ years of a 15-year prison sentence for the murder. A spokesman for the Missouri Department of Corrections said Temple was released Nov. 7, 2009.

A friend of Temple's, Mingtoi Johnson, 21, of University City, said the news of the home invasion and Temple's death was a surprise because he seemed in good spirits when she saw him last weekend.

She does, however, remember one thing he said recently that she and other friends of hers and Temple's didn't take seriously.

"We thought he was just playing around when he said, 'I'll kill myself before I ever go back to jail,'" she said.