Cops seal off block on Post Ave. in Inwood where former wrestler John Collado was shot by a police officer. (James Keivom/News)

A former pro wrestler shot by a Manhattan narcotics cop has died, police said.

John Collado, 43, who police say had a plainclothes detective in a chokehold, was shot on Post Ave. in Inwood about 5 p.m. Tuesday. Collado died 12 hours later at Harlem Hospital.

Advertisement

A police source said Collado lifted the cop more than a foot off the ground, but was still able to grab a gun and fire backwards into Collado's lower chest.

The dead man's family said he was trying to break up what he thought was a fight between the cop and a man sources identified as Rangel Batista. Collado and Batista were friends.

Advertisement

"Collado thinks his friend is being robbed," said Patrick Brackley, the family's lawyer.

"The cop turned around and shot Collado in the stomach and ends up killing him," said Brackley, adding that the family will file a wrongful death lawsuit.





Collado's niece, Banayz Taveras, saw the aftermath of the shooting from across the street. She's a phlebotomist at the Coler-Goldwater Hospital on Roosevelt Island



Collado's niece, Banayz Taveras, leaves Collado's niece, Banayz Taveras, leaves Manhattan Criminal Court Wednesday afternoon after being arraigned. (Marc A Hermann for News)

"I look and I see my uncle with a gunshot wound on the floor," she told the Daily News.

Taveras begged cops to let her try to help her uncle, but the cops wouldn't let her close to him. She ended up getting arrested for obstruction, resisting arrest and disorderly conduct. She was still in custody when her uncle died about 5 a.m.

A judge released her on her own recognizance later that afternoon.

Police said it was clear to witnesses - an account the Collado family denies - that the plainclothes narcotics cop identified himself as a police officer. He was trying to arrest Batista, a suspected marijuana dealer who lives in the same building as Collado.

The cop was being attacked, police said.

"The cops who responded described him as barely conscious," Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne said of the cop who fired. "He was nearly choked out and his limbs were numb."

Advertisement

Batista ran off after the shooting but was later arrested. Police found a Sephora drawstring bag containing 21 dime bags of marijuana. They also found at the scene a larger bag filled with marijuana.

Minutes earlier, the narcotics cop witnessed the suspected drug dealer making a sale inside a building. The buyer ran off, police said, but the dealer put up a fight, grappling with the detective.

The fight spilled out onto the street and Collado intervened, leading to the shooting, police said.

The dead man's relatives insisted Collado wouldn't have interfered had he known the man involved in the fight was a cop.

rparascandola@nydailynews.com