Victor Medina’s best friend Mark Eyler saw the fuse in Medina’s hand Thursday night and asked him, “What is that? It looks like a bomb.”

Medina answered: “Yes. It is.”

“What are you going to do with it?” Eyler asked.

Medina didn’t answer.

About 7:30 p.m., a half-hour after Eyler saw him, Medina took the homemade device to a friend’s apartment at 807 2nd St., Davenport, and threatened the friend and her next-door neighbor, Gloria Hollingshed, who then called police.

Responding Davenport police officers tried negotiating with Medina and ordered him numerous times to give up the device. He refused and advanced on a Davenport police officer, who shot him in the upper torso, according to police.

Medina, 48, later was pronounced dead at Genesis Medical Center-East Rusholme Street, Davenport and an autopsy Friday determined he died of the gunshot wound.

The officer, whose name was not released, was placed on administrative leave as the Scott County Sheriff’s Department continued Friday to piece together the events that led up to the fatal shooting.

Hollingshed said she stepped out onto her third-floor balcony and saw Medina standing on the balcony next to hers. She saw a device in his hand that looked like dynamite stuck together with duct tape.

Medina asked for a light. Then, calmly, he asked to be left alone, telling Hollingshed, “You best move out of the way. If I take my thumb off, this whole building will go up.”

Hollingshed backed into her apartment and called 911.

Officers first spotted Medina on the third-floor balcony, and he eventually made his way to the ground level in the rear of the apartment building as officers attempted to negotiate with him, Scott County Sheriff’s Lt. Bryce Schmidt said Friday. The shooting occurred halfway between the back of the building and the alley.

Hollingshed said she’s struggling with the thought that her 911 call resulted in a man’s death.

“I feel bad, I really do,” she told the Quad-City Times on Friday. “I feel like I’m the cause of this.”

Schmidt said the device Medina was holding appeared to be a flare that wouldn’t cause an explosion but possibly could start a small fire. He brought the device to the building, having put it together elsewhere, Schmidt added.

Late Thursday, police searched an apartment in the 600 block of North Fillmore Street. Schmidt said police had a legitimate address where Medina was staying with a roommate.

That roommate, Robert Reed, said Friday he took Medina in three months ago, offering Medina his couch one rainy night after having been introduced to him by a friend.

Medina made the device in Reed’s apartment, Reed said, after an argument with a friend resulted in the friend allegedly stealing money from Medina’s Social Security account. Reed described the device as a flare with a wick.

Reed said Medina was in the hospital two days earlier being treated for anxiety. Around noon Thursday, Medina left Reed’s apartment with the device in his backpack, telling Reed he was looking for the friend. That was the last he saw his roommate.

Eyler was one of the last to see Medina before he was fatally shot. He said Medina had an ongoing problem with alcohol.

“He let alcohol overrule him, and it ruined his whole life,” Eyler said.

Court records in Black Hawk, Clinton and Scott counties show numerous arrests for public intoxication. He has family in Waterloo and Clinton, Iowa, Schmidt said.

He was arrested in May 2001 in Clinton for assaulting a police officer.

While living in Davenport in the mid-to-late 1990s, he twice pleaded guilty to third-degree burglary.

Reed called Medina a “canning man,” or someone who gathered empty cans for money.

Every week for three months, he stopped by Leon Rush’s home on 7th Street and asked for cans. When he began stealing Rush’s cans, Rush asked him never to return.

“I don’t know what happened in the streets, but he never bothered nobody here,” Rush said.

Angela Williams, who also knows Medina, visited with Rush on Friday afternoon. Rush told Williams the news of Medina’s death.

“He didn’t deserve that,” Williams said, tears rolling down her cheeks.