The family of a 19-year-old man struck by vehicles on a freeway after running from police is looking for answers as it tries to determine what led the him to flee from police and into a fatal traffic accident several months ago.

Hoping to find closure after the death of Paul Quintanar, his family seeks witnesses to the late-night accident, as well as his run-in with police a short beforehand behind a 7-Eleven near Red Hill and Nisson Road just after 8:35 p.m. Sept. 8.

“I still can’t believe that he is gone,” said Marie Sales, Quintanar’s mother. “He didn’t deserve for it to happen this way.”

Tustin police officials initially indicated that officers had encountered Quintanar “hanging out” with a girl in an alley behind the 7-Eleven. They claimed that he had an open container of beer in his hand and concentrated cannabis on him.

Sometime during the encounter with police, Quintanar apparently ran off on foot, heading northbound on Red Hill, under the I-5 and onto the southbound offramp before he was struck in the No. 1 or No. 2 lane of the southbound I-5.

CHP officials say a side mirror of a vehicle struck Quintanar in the head, while another vehicle ran over his arm. An Orange County Coroner’s Office investigation determined that the cause of his death was multiple blunt traumatic injuries to the head.

Family members say they have had difficulty getting additional information from police, who wouldn’t give them a copy of the police report.

Authorities declined to comment any further on their investigation, citing “potential litigation.”

Quintanar had a medical card for the cannabis, family members said, and had suffered from panic attacks in the past that they believe may have explained why he ran.

But family members say they don’t know why he chose to run in the middle of the police encounter, rather than when officers first arrived.

Family members claim that the officers had asked Quintanar to take off his shirt, shoes and belt as they searched him. As a result, they say he was running barefoot and shirtless when he was struck.

“There wasn’t a good reason for them to stop him or strip him,” said Lawrence Martinez, Quintanar’s stepfather.

Family members acknowledged Quintanar and his older brother had been stopped by police before but say he wasn’t the type of person who would have become aggressive or spoken back to police. They described him as a homebody who enjoyed video games and watching cartoons, and who they say wasn’t involved in gang activity.

“Even when you tried to make him mad, he wouldn’t show anger,” said Richard Sales, Quintanar’s uncle. “He told me, ‘I’m a lover, not a fighter.’ “

Family members are hoping that additional witnesses to the incident step forward, asking them to e-mail paul19lov@yahoo.com.

Quintanar’s death came several months after his grandmother, Berna Martinez, 74, died March 21, after she was dragged for several blocks after being struck by a car while crossing near a freeway exit.

Martinez was initially struck less than 50 feet from the location of the freeway accident that took Quintanar’s life, family members said.

After a review by Tustin police and District Attorney’s Office investigators, prosecutors decided not to charge the driver of the vehicle that dragged Martinez, who authorities described as a 79-year-old Aliso Viejo woman.

“We were unable to prove that the victim was hit by the defendant’s car,” said Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman for the District Attorney’s Office. “This is obviously a very tragic case, but in order to file criminal charges, we need to be able to prove that a crime was committed.”

Officials said that if there are any additional witnesses to the traffic accident that took Martinez’s life, they should call district attorney investigator Randy Litwin at 714-347-8492.

Contact the writer: 714-796-7939 or semery@ocregister.com