Neal Simpson

State Police investigators have determined that a Boston officer was justified in shooting a Quincy man who led police on a high-speed chase from Roxbury to Rockland last September.

Mark J. McMullen, 44, died shortly after he was shot four times by Boston police Officer Christopher Carr on the Exit 14 ramp to Route 3 on Sept. 7, 2011, according to investigators. After reviewing the shooting for more than five months, State Police detectives attached to the Plymouth County District Attorney’s Office determined that police had reason to believe McMullen posed “an immediate deadly threat” to officers and that the shooting was “lawful.”

In a press release, police said an autopsy conducted the day after the shooting determined that McMullen had ingested a “significant amount” of cocaine shortly before fleeing police in Roxbury. A witness also told investigators that McMullen appeared “very high” on crack while parked on Blue Hill Avenue that morning, police said.

Boston police had released few details about the 18-mile chase and shooting until Tuesday, referring all questions to the Plymouth County district attorney. McMullen’s family and several Boston-area civil rights groups have called for an independent investigation into the shooting.

Investigators said the chase began when plain-clothes Boston police officers noticed McMullen sitting in a car with a known prostitute and approached the vehicle. As the woman climbed out of the car, McMullen accelerated backward and struck her with the open passenger door of the car, dragging her for about 10 feet, police said.

With Boston and State Police following him, McMullen got on the highway and drove for 18 miles down routes 93 and 3 at speeds of up to 80 miles, police said. At the Freeport Street ramp in Dorchester, McMullen’s car struck a stopped car as he passed it on the shoulder. He drove directly toward a Boston police officer who had his gun aimed at McMullen’s car, police said.

McMullen got off the highway at Exit 15 in Hingham and struck three police cruisers as he crossed over a grassy area and drove up the on ramp back onto Route 3. At Exit 14 in Rockland, McMullen drove down the off ramp and made a sudden U-turn back onto the on ramp, crashing head on into an unmarked State Police vehicle.

As McMullen revved the engine of the car, which had become stuck in the wet grass, officers tried to smash the windows to get him out, police said. The car then lurched forward toward Boston Officer Christopher Carr, who fired four shots into the car, police said.

Police said McMullen continued to struggle and said, “I want to die,” as officers pulled him from the car and began to administer first aid. He was taken to South Shore Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 12:45 p.m.

An autopsy performed the next day determined that McMullen had been shot twice in the chest, once in the torso and once in each arm. A doctor determined that the wounds to the left chest and right torso were both potentially fatal.

The Ledger reported last September that McMullen had a history of arrests in Quincy and had been released from jail a little more than a month before the shooting. He had tried to escape a Quincy courtroom several months earlier after a judge determined that he had violated his probation and ordered that he be taken into custody.

Neal Simpson may be reached at nesimpson@ledger.com.

READ MORE about the McMullen shooting.