A 26-year-old Hemet man driving a pickup was fatally shot early Monday while trying to escape sheriff’s deputies on a Menifee cul-de-sac, authorities said.

Sheriff’s officials said a deputy opened fire at the moving truck shortly after 2 a.m. in the 26000 block of North Bay Lane when the driver nearly ran over the deputy.

Shane Kenneth Fryer died at Menifee Valley Medical Center less than an hour after the 2:05 a.m. confrontation along the 26800 block of North Bay Lane.

Neighbors in the Heritage Lake subdivision described a chaotic scene of gunshots, a pickup with windows shot out racing down the street, collisions with an electrical box and a house, and the blood-curdling screams of the distraught 19-year-old passenger in the truck.

“She kept screaming, ‘He’s gonna die! He’s gonna die! You killed him!'” said resident Tina Mull, 44.

The truck had traveled about a block before striking the electrical box with a loud boom, knocking out power to the neighborhood, Mull said. The pickup continued down the street, crashing into the corner of Ruthie Kelley’s home.

Kelley, 56, said the first thing she remembers hearing was sirens. She saw the pickup and deputies subduing the screaming passenger.

“The police had her on the ground handcuffing her,” Kelley said. “That lady woke up everybody.”

Neighbors said someone had called 911 after seeing flashlights inside an unoccupied home on North Bay Lane.

Donowho said deputies were responding to several reports of a suspicious Nissan pickup. They arrived around 2 a.m. to find the man and woman in the truck, she said.

The passenger – identified as 19-year-old Kandace Carleen Hornback of Hemet – was arrested at 2:15 a.m. and booked into Southwest Detention Center for investigation of receiving stolen property, jail records show. Her bail is $5,000.

The deputy was not injured. Riverside County sheriff’s spokeswoman Cpl. Courtney Donowho said he has been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is being investigated, which is standard procedure when a deputy is involved in a shooting.

Investigators later discovered the man and woman had been involved in several thefts around the neighborhood, Donowho said.

Neighbors said the pair had stolen a table saw and other items, which were found in the pickup.

Brittany Lester, 23, who lives across the street from where the pickup crashed, said her dogs starting barking and then she heard the screaming.

At first, Lester said, she thought a neighbor was being attacked.

Some residents — off-duty police officers — came out of their homes carrying guns, said her husband, 24-year-old Robert Lester.

He said there have been problems with break-ins and thefts in the neighborhood, but nothing like what happened Monday.

“It’s usually not this exciting out here,” he said.

Residents said they were stuck at home without electricity for much of the day. Some missed work because they could not drive through the crime scene.

Crews were called out to repair a transformer in the utility box and clean up the mineral oil that spilled onto the ground when it was hit. Southern California Edison officials said electricity was restored by 6 p.m. to all 40 customers who lost power.