The East Moline business community and Mayor John Thodos were shocked Monday to learn that a local barber was shot over the weekend during an exchange of gunfire with a sheriff’s deputy.

“That’s my barber,” Thodos said of 56-year-old Gregory L. Ohnen of Prophetstown, Ill. “He’s been cutting my hair for years.”

The Rock Island County Integrity Task Force released Ohnen’s name Monday afternoon. He is being treated for his injuries at OSF St. Francis Hospital, Peoria, Ill.

Ohnen owns Gregg’s Barbershop on 15th Avenue. Doug Reed, a barber who rents a chair at Gregg’s, last saw Ohnen Saturday, the day of the shooting. They were working in the barbershop that day.

“He usually says something like ‘See ya Monday’ before he leaves,” Reed said. “He just left. Then, 45 minutes later, it happened.”

Reed said Ohnen left about 1 p.m. to go home, having complained that day of feeling sick.

He was alone when a Rock Island County sheriff’s deputy stopped him for speeding at 1:36 p.m. in the 26100 block of 1st Avenue North, a rural stretch of road near Hillsdale.

Moments later, at 1:42 p.m., police reported an exchange of gunfire, saying Ohnen pulled his gun first.

Ohnen was taken to Genesis Medical Center-Illini Campus, Silvis, then flown to St. Francis.

No injuries were specified for the deputy, a 10-year veteran of the sheriff’s department whose name has not been released. He has been placed on administrative leave.

Thodos was clueless why Ohnen would shoot at an officer, adding that Ohnen is active in the downtown business community.

“The barbershop he runs is pretty standard, the type you see on ‘Mayberry,’ ” Thodos said. “I’d go there once a month. ... Our conversations were always about downtown and business.”

Ohnen was elected president of the Association of East Moline Downtown Businesses late last year.

He took over the duties of downtown event planning from Rob Edwards, owner of Racers Edge, a bar next door to Ohnen’s barbershop. Edwards called Ohnen a “nice guy” and “personable.”

“He’s in the community every day, and he helps out a lot downtown,” Edwards said. “Why would someone like that go off the deep end?”

Reed, who has worked alongside Ohnen for eight years, offered some insight into Ohnen’s personal life.

He said Ohnen has been having financial trouble, having taken numerous calls from bill collectors at the barbershop.

“That would be stressful on somebody,” Reed said.

Ohnen carried a .38-caliber firearm with him to his shop, Reed said, adding the gun was for protection, and Ohnen sometimes kept it in the back office.

He also described Ohnen as “eccentric,” mentioning that he couldn’t stop talking about the British royal wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton.

“He taped the whole thing,” Reed said. “He thought it was such a great thing. I really didn’t care.”

Ohnen often complained to Reed that he had no money for medical expenses, including during a conversation Saturday morning.

“Maybe everything piled up on him,” Reed said.