The man shot and killed Friday by a sheriff's deputy in Glendo was a fencing contractor who was in Wyoming to care for his brother's ranch, family members said today.

Authorities identified the man as Jerry Jochim. They say Jochim shot and wounded a Wyoming state Parks ranger after a pursuit that ended at a home east of Glendo Reservoir.

Family members say Jochim lived in California but periodically stayed at the ranch while his brother, a former officer in the Wyoming Army National Guard, was serving in Afghanistan. The brother was working in Afghanistan as a civilian contractor at the time of the shooting.

Authorities say Jochim was 57. According to a birth date provided by family members, he died the day before his 56th birthday.

The ranger, Phil Martindale, is in stable condition after being transferred out of the intensive care unit at Wyoming Medical Center in Casper, said Wyoming State Parks Administrator Domenic Bravo.

Martindale was shot in the chest, Bravo said.

According to an account of the incident released by the Platte County Attorney's Office, the sheriff's office received a drunken driving report at 8:19 p.m. Friday. Martindale and a sheriff's deputy responded to the reservoir's northeast side about 9 p.m. and stopped a vehicle believed to be driven by the drunken driving suspect.

The driver refused to exit his vehicle, and after a few minutes, fled north on Highline Road with both the ranger and the deputy in pursuit, according to the statement. The man turned into a rural residence on Highline, got out and ran to a house. The officers attempted to arrest the man and a struggle ensued.

Authorities say Jochim pulled a semi-automatic 9 mm pistol and shot at the two officers. Martindale was wounded in the upper chest. The struggle continued until the deputy, who was not identified, returned fire and killed the suspect.

The deputy was transported to a hospital in Wheatland after the shooting. The deputy was treated and released for injuries that were not life threatening, according to the statement.

Speaking before today's statement was released, Jochim's niece, Kaytee Monson, said authorities weren't providing family members with details about the shooting, despite requests from his wife and daughter.

"I just want people to know that we are looking for answers," Monson said.

Messages left for Platte County Attorney Eric Jones and Sheriff Steve Keigley were not returned.

The investigation into the shooting is being handled by the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation. Authorities say they will not release additional information about the case until DCI completes its investigation.