by Lady2Soothe





Currently, there is no national database documenting the murders of un-armed people by police, security guards or self-appointed vigilantes. Although not all victims found here were weaponless, the fatal murdering of the unarmed: whether they are of ethnic origin, are disabled, mentally ill, homeless or their sexual orientation, by Police Departments across the country is unjustified, and the vast majority of officers involved are not being held accountable.

Unfortunately due to the ongoing killings by Police and people claiming Stand Your Ground (Castle Doctrine) this list will continue to grow. If you have a family member, friend or know of someone (unarmed) murdered at the hands of Law Enforcement (or others) please let me know and I’ll add their name to this memorandum.

Visual map displaying accounts of extrajudicial killings of people of colour beginning in 2012 https://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=215510872499841685660.0004c577c714cfc6b9ef1&msa=0&dg=feature

This Is What It’s Like To Be An Unarmed Black Man In America

I believe ALL those listed below regardless of whether they were in the process of perpetrating a crime, in a gang, drug possession, incarceration, resisting arrest, alluding, a weapon thrown aside, mentally ill or just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time, they are all victims. Victims who loved and were loved. This memorial is dedicated to all the Mothers and Fathers, Sons and Daughters, Husbands and Wife’s, Grandparents, Sisters and Brothers, Nieces and Nephews, Girlfriends, Boyfriends, Lovers, Friends and Neighbors who have lost someone at the hands of law enforcement. For all the heartbreak, shed tears, unanswered questions, lies and grief for a life unfulfilled, to you I give honor, for “there but for the grace of God go I”. May you find peace in knowing their bloodshed will not go unnoticed nor will their life be forgotten.

As we remember victims of violence let us remember the sadness of loss. May that sadness be transformed into compassion for the victim and their loved ones. May the fear struck in us by the power of tragedy give way to reverence at the unending power of unconditional love. May we uncover the energy of our anger and use it to right what is wrong in our own behavior toward one another and to challenge the mindsets and systems which enable and promote violence. May love gently wipe the tears from our eyes and remove the fear from our hearts. Look with favor upon the families and friends who mourn the victims and comfort those who are in grief and despair, that peace, the fruit of justice and charity may reign for each of us gathered here today. For all victims of crime, abuse, harassment and all who commit acts of violence; from those who speak harsh words in anger, to those who hate others who are different from themselves, to those who take the life of another, may we learn to act justly, love tenderly and walk humbly.



My definition of Unarmed

Please keep in mind I am only able to research and write bio’s on 5-7 victims per day. Each bio is verified through multiple sources, photos are retrieved, copied, cropped. Each bio is written and condensed close as possible to a single paragraph, many have links to READ MORE. Each name, age, state and ethnicity are entered into 3 data bases and then, after all pertinent information has been gathered I individually post to the website. Therefore each bio takes anywhere from 30 to 60 minutes to complete.

It is at my discretion as to what I consider as being unarmed. If the person has a weapon but is unable to use it because it’s under a seat, knocked to the side, fallen to the ground, in someone else’s possession etc. I consider that person unarmed. If someone is shot in the back, I consider that person unarmed. If there appears to be questionable circumstances surrounding the death, I consider that person unarmed. If the person is mentally ill and can be contained without using deadly force, I consider that person unarmed. If ANYONE can be contained without using deadly force, I consider that person unarmed.

There is no reason, in my opinion to shoot someone when police manage to apprehend and incarcerate extraordinarily dangerous serial killers/ mass murderers/spree killers and vigilantes yet cannot manage the capture of citizens of ethnic lineage without executing them.

However, if someone is shooting, holding a weapon or hurting someone (including an officer) and there is absolutely no other way to control them, I consider that person armed. Mind you, I credit witness statements far above police reports.

I DO NOT believe Law Enforcement reports. Lies the police tell that are so familiar anyone can recite them: “Reached for waist band”; “Pointed hand at police in a threatening manner.” “Backed the car toward officers” “Lunged at me” “Had a black object in hand” “Tried to grab gun” “Officers of the Un-Peace” or “Un-Peace Officers” Campaigns were formed against the “Blue Code” supposedly making it more visible to the public eye have taken place but all they seem to be doing is allowing the police to police the police and the police. Police are liars, period. So please don’t think I would even consider relying on their statements. The code of Blue Silence is too real to be ignored, and has been proven over and over again to be the real badge of the law.

As for Grand Juries they’ve been bought and paid for in more cases than can be counted. There is something fundamentally unfair about a grand jury system which doesn’t reflect the racial, political and ethnic diversity of the community it serves and the people it indicts.



.



Gil Collar 18, October 6, 2012 Mobile AL – Collar was student at the University of South Alabama. While naked the 5’4”, 140 lb student walked to the campus police station early on a Saturday morning. Collar attempted to open a locked door and banged on a window to the police station. An officer exited the building with gun drawn. Video shows that Collar approached the officer with arms outstretched and palms up. As Collar approached the officer, the officer backed away, then shot Collar once in the chest. Collar was never closer than four feet from the officer and didn’t try to grab his weapon. A second officer arrived and assisted in handcuffing Collar. He died from the gunshot wound. It was later determined that Collar had taken LSD prior to the incident. The officer had both pepper spray and a baton with him. Murdered by Mobile PD

Jose Manuel Guerena Ortiz 26, May 5, 2011 Pima AZ – Former Iraq veteran Jose Guerena was shot to death by Pima County Sheriff SWAT officers. They suspected Guerena of being part of a drug dealing operation (he was not involved). The officers prevented the ambulance from getting Guerena medical attention until they searched the house. The officers even pointed their guns at Guerena’s wife and 4-year-old son. The Pima county Sheriff’s department released a 1:17 video of the incident. The SWAT team was cleared of any wrongdoing by the Pima County Attorney’s Office and never apologized to Guerena’s family. Neighbors also said that the SWAT officers burst into their houses after the shooting and intimidated them, which the officers deny. The family had originally filed a $20 million complaint against all agencies involved, but none responded. Guerena’s widow has filed a lawsuit with the intent of letting a jury decide the award. Murdered by Pima PD

Joseph Erin Hamley 21, (mentally disabled) March 7, 2006 AR – Hamley, was shot and killed by state trooper Larry Norman while laying supine on the ground. Norman mistook Hamley for a fugitive. Norman was indicted by a grand jury on a charge of negligent homicide.[3] On June 28, 2007, Norman pled guilty to the charge and was sentenced to 90 days in jail, 30 days of community service, one year of probation and a $1,000 fine.[4] Norman served 54 days of his jail sentence.[5] The Arkansas State Police settled a lawsuit on March 5, 2007 with the victim’s family for one million dollars.[6] Norman was later granted a full early medical retirement from the Arkansas State Police at the age of 40. Although the Arkansas State Police expressed regret for the shooting of Hamley, they deny any wrongdoing as part of the settlement. Murdered by Arkansas State Police

Juan Herrera 23, December 23, 2004 Buena Park CA – was shot and killed by Officer Ron Furtado after a car pursuit in Buena Park. Officer Furtado claimed that Herrera was reaching for a gun. Herrera’s family sued and hired a forensic expert who was testified Herrera was sitting upright. However, the city settled with the Herrera family for $5 million. Officer Furtado was not charged. Murdered by Buena Park PD

Douglas Zerby 35, Dec. 12, 2010 Long Beach CA – Several Long Beach police officers shot Doug Zerby 21 times, killing him instantly. Zerby was allegedly intoxicated and wielding what appeared to be a gun (it turned out to be a black metal-tipped water nozzle). The police were on the scene for around fifteen minutes and allegedly never identified themselves before shooting Zerby. The police claimed the use of force was necessary, but the family and filed a wrongful death suit against the police department. Murdered by Long Beach PD

Jason Alan Kemp 31, July 20, 2010 Grand Junction CO – State troopers were investigating a minor accident that resulted, at most, in minimal damage to a neighbor’s lawn involving a pickup pulling a trailer and jet ski” in which “the jet ski fell off the trailer and the truck was stuck in a neighbor’s yard.” Callers “said it appeared as if the three people trying to remove the truck were intoxicated”. They suspected Kemp, their neighbor was responsible as he may have been driving under the influence. The police wanted to gain entrance to Kemp’s house but Kemp insisted police comply with the Fourth Amendment and obtain a warrant before entering. Two supervisory officers, a corporal and a sergeant were present at the scene and supported and or participated in attempting to kick down the door and with guns drawn entered Kemps home. One witness said Kemp was shot after troopers fired pepper spray through a small opening in the door then shot him at point blank range. Murdered by Colorado State Troopers

Arthur Lee McDuffie 33, December 17, 1979 Miami FL – McDuffie was supposedly doing daredevil stunts on his motorcycle when police spotted him. After a high-speed chase, McDuffie was caught. At least a dozen police officers encircled him. For 20 minutes, according to reports, they beat him with nightsticks and flashlights. Four days later, after slipping into a coma he died. The police officers wrote up an accident report, saying McDuffie sustained injuries when his motorcycle hit a curb and went out of control. But, the pieces didn’t fit. The Dade County medical examiner became suspicious. Rumors about the “accident” were whispered throughout the police department, prompting an internal investigation of the case. Working together, the medical examiner and police investigators found that McDuffie was handcuffed when he was beaten. The killing blow had crashed into his forehead at 90 times the force of gravity. Murdered by Miami PD

Martin Lee Anderson 14, January 6, 2006 Panama City, FL – Bay County Boot Camp Youth Detention Center located in and operated by the Bay County Sheriff’s Office. Within the first two hours of Anderson’s first day at the camp (where he had been committed for stealing his grandmother’s car, curfew violation during probation, and theft of candy), camp officials forced him to continue exercising after he stopped exercising. Drill instructors grabbed Anderson and applied numerous uses of force, including holding Anderson by the arms, take-downs, pressure point applications, and COVERING HIS MOUTH WHILE FORCING HIM TO INHALE AMMONIA. Anderson became unresponsive during this episode, and eventually died the next day in Pensacola, Florida after his parents elected to remove him from life support. On 28 November 2006, authorities announced the arrest of 8 people in connection with Anderson’s death. 7 guards and a nurse were charged with aggravated manslaughter of a child. A 30-minute portion of the surveillance video depicting the coercion was made public. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice stated that no federal criminal civil rights charges would be filed against the eight people who were originally charged in his death. The press release included the following: “After a careful and thorough review, a team of experienced federal prosecutors and FBI agents determined that the evidence was insufficient to pursue federal criminal civil rights charges. Accordingly, the investigation into this incident has been closed.” Murdered by Bay County Sheriff’s Office

Nick Christie 62, March 27, 2009 Ft. Myers FL – Nick Christie was strapped naked to a chair at Lee County jail and until he died of heart failure after being pepper sprayed. The officers involved in the incident say that Christie was “combative, despite the fact he was restrained in a chair so he allegedly wouldn’t spit at his jailers.” However, other inmates on the cell block tell a different story. They say that there was excessive use of pepper spray, his whole head was turning purple, he was gasping for air and was telling the officers that he couldn’t breathe and that he had a heart condition. The District 21 Medical Examiner “ruled his death was a homicide because he had been restrained and sprayed with pepper sprayed by law enforcement officers.” The officers responsible were cleared of wrongdoing, but Christie’s family has filed a lawsuit against the police for his wrongful death. Murdered by Myers PD

Robert L. Hall 56, January 23, 1943 Newton GA – Hall was arrested at his home and transported him to the Court House Square, in Newton,’ where they beat him into insensibility. It is charged in the indictment that Hall died the same night, shortly after being taken to a hospital at Albany. Ga. Police in Baker County, Georgia beat with their fists and with a solid-bar blackjack about eight inches long and weighing two pounds. After Hall, still handcuffed, had been knocked to the ground, they continued to beat him from fifteen to thirty minutes until he was unconscious. Hall was then dragged feet first through the courthouse yard into the jail and thrown upon the floor, dying. An ambulance was called, and Hall was removed to a hospital, where he died within the hour and without regaining consciousness. A Federal Grand Jury at Macon GA returned an indictment on three counts on April 10, 1943 charging 2 Baker County law officers and a Newton GA city policeman with violations of the Fereral Civil Rights Statues. Named as defendants in the indictment were all of Newton GA: M. Claude Screws, Sheriff and Jim Bob Kelly, Deputy Sheriff of Baker County for a combined penalty of 13 years imprisonment and $16,000 in fines. Murder by 2 Georgia Law Enforcement agencies

Latricka Sloan 32, January 22, 2011 Attapulgus, GA – When Ms. Sloan approached a safety checkpoint on the highway, she made a U-turn back towards her home. An officer from the checkpoint caught up to Sloan about five miles from the checkpoint and performed a PIT maneuver (precision immobilization technique, is a pursuit tactic by which a pursuing car can force a fleeing car to abruptly turn sideways, causing the driver to lose control and stop) on Sloan’s vehicle. Sloan’s vehicle spun around and flipped into a drainage ditch. A witness reports that Sloan was not traveling fast and the witness thought the officer was going to pass Sloan’s vehicle but instead hit her vehicle. Sloan was killed in the crash. It was later determined that Sloan was not licensed to drive in Georgia and her Florida license had been revoked. The only reported violations on Sloan’s records were traffic citations. Murdered by Attapulgus PD

Flint Farmer 29, June 7, 2011 Chicago IL – Officer Gildardo Sierra and a partner had responded to a domestic disturbance call allegedly involving Farmer. When confronted by the police, Farmer fled. Sierra shot at Farmer multiple times, hitting him in the leg and abdomen. Publicly available police video shows Sierra circle the prone Farmer as three bright flashes emit from approximately waist level. Sierra fired 16 shots at Farmer, hitting him seven times. The coroner who performed the autopsy on Farmer reported that Farmer could have survived the shots to the leg and abdomen, but any of the three shots through the back would have been fatal. Chicago Police officer Gildardo Sierra had been drinking before reporting for work, but the Police Department waited more than five hours after the shooting to test him for alcohol. Although the Chicago police department ruled the shooting justified, by October 23, 2011 Sierra had been stripped of his police powers and the FBI had opened an investigation into the incident. Records reflect this shooting was the third by the Officer Gildardo Sierra since January — and the second fatality in six months. Murdered by Chicago PD

Sofia Salva (miscarriage) February 5, 2009 Kansas City KS – Salva a Sudanese native was driving to the hospital because she felt she was having a miscarriage. Two Kansas City police officers Melody Spencer and Kevin Schnell pulled her over for having stolen tags and suspected her to have stolen the car. On the police car’s dashcamera, Salva pleads to the officers twenty times to let her go to the hospital After the ninth request, the tape shows, a female officer Melody Spencer asked “How is that my problem?” The officers made Salva sit on the curb while they searched her car, purse and grocery bags. Spencer said, “that will be something you can take care of when we get done with you.” Salva was held overnight on traffic violations and outstanding city warrants. After being released the next morning, she delivered a premature baby boy who died immediately after birth. The officers were suspended and eventually fired. No tapes were available of Salva’s time in the jail, but she contends in the lawsuit that her continued pleas for help were ignored. The department said videotapes from that period had been recycled before it became aware of Salva’s claims. The city reached a $750,000 settlement with Salva in 2008 and the two officers lost their attempts to get the courts to overturn their termination. Baby murdered by Kansas City PD

Adolph Archie (age unknown) March 22, 1990 New Orleans LA – During a shootout, Archie was accused of killing Officer Earl Hauck. Moments later a security guard shot Archie in the arm and he was taken into custody by police officers. As the prisoner was driven from the scene in a patrol car, angry officers could be heard on the police radio cursing and calling for him to be killed. The demands were heard all over New Orleans. When the car carrying Archie arrived at a hospital, a mob of 100 plus screaming officers was there to meet it. No superior officers dispersed the mob. For reasons never been satisfactorily answered, Adolph Archie was not taken into the hospital, but was driven to a station house in the precinct of the officer he had killed. There he was fatally beaten. No officer was ever charged in connection with Archie’s death. A settlement of $333,000 was eventually reached between Archie’s family and the city, with one-third of the sum going to the family of the fallen officer. Murdered by New Orleans PD

Archie “Artie” Elliott III 24, June 18, 1993 District Heights MD – Elliott was driving home from his construction job in the late afternoon when Officer Jason Leavitt of the District Heights Police Department pulled him over for driving erratically. Leavitt administered a field sobriety test, which Elliott failed. After determining to arrest Elliott, Officer Leavitt searched Elliott, handcuffed him and placed him in the front seat of Leavitt’s police car, securing him in the seat with the seat belt and closed the car door. Shortly afterward, Officer Wayne Cheney of the Prince George’s County Police Department arrived as backup. Two officers were standing beside the car when they claimed that Elliott suddenly exited the car and pointed a gun at them. Both officers opened fire and shot Elliott a total of fourteen times. Police say they recovered a small, unloaded, .22 caliber handgun from the scene. Several witnesses disputed the officers’ account of the incident, however a grand jury declined to issue an indictment. Officer Wayne Cheney shot and killed 29-year-old Michael D. Reed in Upper Marlboro on Feb. 18, 1995. Cheney was also cleared of those charges. Murdered by District Heights PD

Raymond Robair 48, July 30, 2005 Treme LA – Several neighbors of the man who was killed testified they saw Officer Melvin Williams approach Raymond Robair on the street in and kick him in the side stomp and beat him repeatedly with a baton but the two officers accused in the case claim they were helping Robair, who they claim was found stumbling around and clutching his chest. To get him quick medical assistance, Officers Melvin Williams and Matthew Dean Moore — placed an unconscious Robair into their police car and drove him to Charity Hospital. The Officers falsely informed the hospital staff they found Robair under a bridge and all they knew was that Robair was a drug user. Based upon that information, the hospital treated Robair for a drug overdose rather than blunt force trauma. Robair suffered fractured ribs and a ruptured spleen as a result of the beating. He was pronounced dead within a few hours. An autopsy found that Robair suffered fractured ribs and a ruptured spleen. But the latter detail wasn’t noted by the Orleans Parish coroner’s office. The autopsy done by McGarry listed the fractured ribs, but states only that the spleen is absent, removed in surgery. Minyard classified the death as accidental. A second autopsy, performed 10 days later by Dr. Kris Sperry, the chief medical examiner in Georgia, recounts that doctor’s efforts to track down the spleen, which had been cut into sections. Sperry put the spleen back together, finding lacerations that indicated to him a rupture caused by blunt force to the abdomen, according to the autopsy found evidence of blows to Robair’s thighs and the back of his legs. Two New Orleans police officers were convicted in federal court in the beating death and cover-up after initially telling investigators the victim was suffering from a drug overdose. Murdered by Treme PD

Malice Green 36, November 5, 1992 Detroit MI – died while in police custody after being arrested by Detroit police officers Walter Budzyn and Larry Nevers during a traffic stop. Green allegedly failed to relinquish a vial of crack cocaine. Nevers struck Green in the head with his flashlight approximately fourteen times during the struggle which, according to the official autopsy, resulted in his death. An Emergency Medical Service worker arrived on the scene and sent a computer message to his superiors asking, “What should I do, if I witness police brutality/murder?” Other officers and a supervisor arrived but did not intervene to stop the beating. Green had a seizure and died en route to the hospital. The official cause of death was ruled due to blunt force trauma to his head. Both officers were convicted of second degree murder, but in a retrial (due to juror misconduct), they were convicted of involuntary manslaughter. The City of Detroit paid a civil agreement of $5.25 million to Malice Green’s family. Murdered by Detroit PD

Ernest Satterwhite 68, Feb. 10, 2014 North Augusta SC – Ernest Satterwhite was a laid-back former mechanic with a habit of ignoring police officers who tried to pull him over so when Public Safety Officer Justin Craven said he tried to stop the vehicle Satterwhite was driving because he suspected the driver might be drinking. When the driver failed to stop, Craven pursued the vehicle. The 25 mile per hours slow speed chase resulted in several damaged mailboxes and two accidents. As the pursuit left Aiken County, North Augusta Public Safety notified the Edgefield County Sheriff’s Office that the chase for 9 miles and was heading its way. Edgefield County deputies joined the pursuit just as it ended at Satterwhite’s residence. Satterwhite parked in his own driveway AND Craven ran up to Satterwhite’s parked car and fired several shots into the driver’s side door, telling the other officers that Satterwhite tried to grab his gun. The other officers couldn’t get Satterwhite’s door open, so they broke the passenger side window, unlocked that door and dragged him out. Investigators determined that North Augusta Public Safety Officer Justin Craven broke the law. A prosecutor, in a rare action against a police officer, sought to charge him with voluntary manslaughter, punishable by up to 30 years in prison. But the grand jury disagreed, indicting him on a misdemeanor. The grand jury opted for “misconduct in office,” a charge used for sheriffs who make inmates do their personal work, or officers who ask for bribes. Their single-page indictment, returned in August, contains no details other than accusing Craven of “using excessive force and failing to follow and use proper procedures.” Murdered by Public Safety Officer Justin Craven

Cayne Miceli 43, Jan. 5, 2009 New Orleans LA – Miceli was arrested on municipal charges at Tulane University’s hospital after she sought treatment for her severe asthma. She ended up in the jail’s oft-criticized psychiatric ward after a suicide attempt. Despite her asthma, she was tied down on her back in five-point restraints for nine hours, which a federal lawsuit brought by Howell against the Orleans Parish sheriff’s office argues directly led to her death. Minyard at first classified Miceli’s death as accidental, finding it was “drug-related.” But the toxicology report came back clean. The initial classification seems to stem from the “multiple fresh and recent injection sites of the forearms”. But McGarry did not make note of a logical explanation for those marks: Miceli was hooked up to life-support equipment before she died. The drug finding was removed from a subsequent death certificate and autopsy that was issued by Minyard’s office more than a year after the McGarry autopsy. The second autopsy notes the pulmonary disease found in Miceli’s body. Her death certificate was also changed, removing “drug intake” and replacing it with “bronchial asthma.” Murdered by New Orleans PD

Omega Leach 17, June 3, 2007 Chad Youth Enhancement Nashville TN – The City of Philadelphia decided a trip south was best for Omega Leach, an angry teenager who got in trouble for stealing a car. Leach was sent to the Chad Youth Enhancement Center outside Nashville, a mental-health facility for troubled teenagers approved by the city’s Department of Human Services. Leach had a confrontation with staff member. He tried to choke one counselor, and another staffer pushed Leach facedown to the floor and pulled his arms behind his back. A surveillance camera showing a Chad mental-health technician with both hands around Leach’s neck as he pinned him to the floor. Leach had “multiple hemorrhages” of his neck muscles. Tennessee treatment center has settled a federal lawsuit against the facility for $10.5 million. Murdered by Chad Youth Enhancement counselor

Unknown Female 14, September 2005 Chad Youth Enhancement Nashville TN – , the city was told that a 14-year-old girl from Long Island, N.Y., had dropped dead of a heart attack after a confrontation with staff. March 2005, a man called the Philadelphia child-abuse hotline with a warning: His coworkers were using “improper and illegal” force against city youngsters sent to the Chad Youth Enhancement Center. Unknown Male teen June 2005 Chad Youth Enhancement a Philadelphia child-care investigator learned that a staffer at the Tennessee center had been fired after he allegedly slammed a boy to the floor so hard the child fouled himself. In 2005, when Tennessee staged a surprise inspection of Chad, a girl told the inspectors that a Chad supervisor “will try to hurt students during restraints and ‘wants us to scream.’ ” Another youngster said she had seen “Big Mike slam kids down real hard on the floor. I don’t want that happening to me, so I try hard to do everything they ask me to do. Murdered by Chad Youth Enhancement Counselor

John Capano 51, Dec. 31, 2011 Seaford NY – Capano, a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, was shot in the chest by a retired officer while struggling with McGoey, who had just robbed a pharmacy where Capano was a customer. The officer had mistaken Capano for an armed assailant. McGoey was then shot and killed by an off-duty officer who came to the scene. No criminal charges were filed in what is considered a friendly-fire shootout. Murdered by one of his own

Dawntree Ta’Shawn Williams 15, (mentally challenged) Dec. 20, 2011 Buford GA – Police responded to a domestic dispute Monday afternoon when family therapist called 911 Family members were allegedly locked in a room by the mentally challenged teenager while he threatened to kill them. His therapist called police in an effort to obtain help for him. The responding officers claim to have immediately ordered Williams to drop the weapon. When he refused, they claim they were forced to shoot him because he presented them with a deadly threat, even though these officers had been called to the house a week before because of his mental capacity. Williams later died from his injuries at Northeast Georgia Medical Center. No officers were injured in the incident. Murdered by Buford PD

Michael Dewayne Gilyard 44, Dec. 16, 2010 Shreveport LA – Gilyard was riding his bike home when Officer Brian Lauzon stopped him for *looking suspicious*. Lauzon got out of his patrol car to question Gilyard and a struggle ensues off camera. During the struggle, Lauzon says he shot Gilyard in the back because he believed Gilyard was reaching for a gun. The coroner’s report indicates that the cause of death was a single gunshot wound to the chest with a trajectory from back to front. Gilyard was later pronounced dead at LSU Hospital. No charges were be filed against Lauzon in the shooting death. Murdered by Shreveport PD

Ariston Waiters 19, Dec. 14, 2011 Union City GA – Shot during a physical altercation with police. Officers were responding to a report of a fight between teenage girls and young adults. Neighbors report that the man was not involved in the fight and when shot. Officer Lewis claims Waiters was running from police to avoid arrest on outstanding warrants, however witness’ say “When Lewis seized Waiters, he did not have probable cause to believe that Waiters had been involved in criminal activity; he only knew that Waiters had been walking away from an incident involving several teenage girls.” Unarmed Waiters was lying faced-down on the ground, being handcuffed by a Union City police officer, when the officer fatally shot him. Laying on his belly with his arms outstretched above his head Lewis then knelt beside the teen, putting one knee into Waiters’ back as he affixed handcuffs to the teen’s left wrist, attempting to comply with Lewis’ commands Waiters reached his right hand behind himself to be cuffed. Lewis fired two shots into Waited back. Union City police refused to allow a registered nurse – one who provided her credentials to officers – into the shooting scene to render aid to Waiters as he lay bleeding following the shooting. Autopsy confirmed Waiters was shot in the back close enough to leave burn marks on his skin, Murdered by Union City PD

Stanley Gibson 43 (PTSD and brain cancer) Dec. 12, 2011 Las Vegas NV – Gibson, a veteran, was allegedly suffering from PTSD and brain cancer and was disoriented when he struck a police cruiser with his car. Officers boxed him in with their vehicles, commanding Gibson to exit his vehicle as he continued to attempt to drive away. Police reportedly made a plan to break Gibson’s window with a beanbag round and use pepper spray to force him out. When the beanbag round was fired, Metro Officer Jesus Arevalo fired seven rounds of live ammunition at Gibson, who was unarmed. In October 2012, the Clark County District Attorney’s office announced an indictment against Arevalo and is seeking a grand jury hearing of the case. In May 2013, following an internal review, the Critical Incident Review Board recommended the termination of Arevalo’s position with the Metro Police for the shooting death of Gibson. Murdered by Las Vegas Metro PD

Austin Welling 18, Nov. 27, 2011 Tacoma WA – Unarmed Welling was shot and critically injured after an officer pulled him over on suspicion of driving a stolen vehicle. Welling allegedly put the car in reverse and drove toward the officer, who fired at him several times. The 18-year-old was taken off of life support on January 31, 2012. Murdered by Tacoma PD

Jermie McCraven 20, Feb. 10, 2012 Memphis TN – Jermie, along with friend George Gray were in a Memphis apartment complex, visiting a friend and helping Gray take tires off of his car. Mccraven was followed by a manager because he was parked in a complex where he was not from and the manager automatically assumed he was up to no good. Mccraven and Gray parked in front of a dead end which had a ditch in front of it. When getting the last tire off, Jermie got into his vehicle along with Gray, and suddenly officers pulled behind him. Gray said that officers fired multiple times saying get out, but they were afraid so they held their hands in the air and remained in the vehicle. Officers fired again, this time constantly. Gray said Jermie laid his head down and took his last breathe. The car already in drive and with Jermie dying instantly, his foot smashed the gas, causing the car to be out of control and rolling into the ditch. Officers say that Jermie attempted to run over them, not knowing he was already dead before the car even moved. Gray said by him being shot he blanked out, then officers awoke him when busting Jermie’s window out telling him to “get the F**k out and climb over Jermie’s body”. Two officers were at the scene, but Only one officer fired. No one’s house was ever reported broken into. Officers basically said that he deserved to be killed because of his record. Jermie was never convicted of nothing more than driving tickets. He was taken to jail for theft, but never convicted because no evidence was ever found. He was only accused and then let out of custody. Jermie wasn’t found with any drugs, weapons or anything which would make officers believe he threatened them, causing them to kill him. His body was moved from the scene without being identified. Officers never attempted to call any numbers in his call log to notify the family or friends. Murdered by Memphis PD

Thomas Anthony Black 44, Dec. 8, 2011 Port Madison Indian Reservation Suquamish WA – Officers were serving an arrest warrant on Stacy Callihoo, 42, who was in the Black home. Black, who was seated, to keep his hands where they could see them. Officers said they shot him when he raised his hands holding what they thought was a gun. Police retracted their original statement that Black had shot at officers after no handgun was recovered at the scene and no evidence supported Black’s firing at them. Detectives then claimed they found a toy gun in the vicinity. Murdered by Suquamish PD

Vang Thao 21, Dec. 3, 2011 Merced, CA – After a disturbance reported during a party at a home Two officers responded to the scene. As they approached the home, they saw and heard what appeared to be an argument between two men. Thao was killed by a stray bullet as officers fired at 18-year-old Kong Xiong, who was pointing a gun at them. Thao was not their intended target, and the Merced Police Department stated that Xiong was responsible for Thao’s death. Murdered by Merced PD

Lamont Harmon 47, Feb. 6, 2012 Sacramento CA – Unarmed Harmon was walking across the Kmart parking lot on his way to his mother’s home shortly after a stolen car was discovered in the parking lot of an AM/PM gas station a block away. The deputy chased Harmon through the Kmart parking lot, to an intersection. Police say Harmon didn’t surrender once the deputy caught up. Supposedly as the two fought, the deputy used his stun gun on Harmon, to no effect. The Officers claims Harmon made a quick move, and the deputy, claims, fearing for his life he opened fire. Murdered by Sacramento County Sheriff’s Deputy

Bernard Pate 37, Feb. 22, 2011 Las Vegas NV – Pate has an extensive police record, including arrests for attempted lewdness with a minor, attempted robbery, attempted burglary, open and gross lewdness, annoyance of a mentally challenged minor, lewdness with a minor under the age of 14 years, unlawful contact with the mentally ill, and battery, domestic violence. He is also a registered sex offender. During the foot pursuit, an officer shot the suspect, who was *believed* to be carrying a gun. Police claim a gun was found next to the suspect, but was it his? The suspect was also shot in the back, so was he running away and not posing a threat? Murdered by Las Vegas PD

Dwight Person 54, Nov. 17, 2011 East Point GA – Approximately 10 minutes after arriving at his nephew’s home, East Point police claim they knocked then entered the house looking for drugs. Witness say “The door busted down, and they were telling everybody to get down,” Police claim Person made a threatening gesture toward the officer. The veteran officer, claims she was fearful of her safety, fired once, striking the man in the abdomen. Barick Vaughn said police had no reason to be inside the house, let alone shoot anyone. Police arrested seven people, charging them with operating a dive, a violation of a municipal code. Two were released on bond, and five others attended a municipal hearing which is a lower court which tries misdemeanors and civil lawsuits. Medical attention was immediately sought for the Person and after being transported to a local hospital, he was pronounced deceased.” Murdered by East Point PD

Kyam Livingston 37 July 20, 2013 Brooklyn NY – Police arrested Livingston because she broke an order of protection her grandmother had taken out against her. Johnson said she called the cops after Livingston, who lived with her in Windsor Terrace, drank a bottle of vodka and turned violent, breaking two TV remote controls and two tables. She said the order of protection didn’t bar Livingston from living with her, but forbade her from arguing with her and drinking in her apartment. Officers called for medical assistance several hours after Livingston began complaining of stomach pains and diarrhea Emergency Medical Services crew was finally called, by the time they arrived, Livingston had been dead for 20 minutes. Fellow inmate Aleah Holland, a registered nurse, told The News that Livingston died needlessly “They said, ‘Shut up before we lose your paper work and you won’t be seen by a judge,’ we cleared a bench for Livingston to lie on. “She was convulsing on the bench”. Police at Central Booking ignored her complaints of stomach pains and diarrhea. She said that when she and other inmates banged on the bars calling for help, officers told them Livingston was an alcoholic. Brooklyn police Livingston claim she died in an ambulance heading to Brooklyn Hospital Center. Per the letter from the family’s attorney, “We are writing to request a copy of your ambulance call report, medical records documenting any treatment rendered to Ms. Livingston, and an itemized bill for services rendered.” The Hospital’s response is alarming: “We are unable to comply with your request at this time for the following reason(s): We show no treatment at this facility for the dates of service you requested.” The medical examiner’s office said that the cause of death was alcoholic seizure from chronic alcoholism Livingston’s toxicology report proves she was sober before her death. Aside from 5 mg’s of caffeine and 20 mg’s of glucose, Livingston’s blood and urine showed no signs of ethanol, basic drugs or any methamphetamines in her system. Murdered by Brooklyn PD

Kenneth Chamberlin Sr. 68, Nov. 19, 2011 White Plains NY – After his Life Aid medical alert necklace was inadvertently triggered, police came to his home and demanded that he open his front door. Police knocked on his door. Chamberlain told them through the door, he did not call them, did not require assistance, was not having a medical emergency, and asked them to leave. Police refused to leave his home, and insisted that Chamberlain open the door. Throughout the entire incident, an audio recording was made by a Life Alert device in the home. The police became more insistent, and began banging on the door. Chamberlain then contacted the Life Alert operator asking them for help. He stated that the White Plains Police employees were going to enter his home and kill him. The police continued to bang on the door, and then attempt to force it open for approximately one hour. During that time, officer Steven Hart swore at him and called him a “nigger.” Despite his objections and statements that he did not need help, the police broke down Chamberlain’s door, tasered him, and then shot him twice in the chest. A camera mounted on the taser captured the tasing, but was not functioning during the shooting. Chamberlin later died in surgery at White Plains Hospital. A grand jury reviewed the case and decided that no criminal charge would be made against police officers involved in the killing. White Plains police system wrote their reports to cover up racism and wrongdoing by the officers. Their transcript of the incident omitted Hart’s use of the word “nigger,” as well as the information that the original call had been for a medical emergency. Murdered by White Plains PD

Justin Crowley-Smilek 28, (mentally ill) Nov. 19, 2011 Farmington ME – Former Army Ranger suffering from combat stress and physical injuries from service in Afghanistan, was armed with a large knife when he arrived at the Farmington municipal building for help regarding mental health problems. Crowley-Smilek used a call box mounted on the building to contact the Police Department. Officer Rosie Peck went to the front entrance of the building, stepped outside and saw a man – later identified to be Justin Crowley-Smilek was walking away. Rosie took cover behind a police cruiser and drew his service firearm and fired seven or more shots at Crowley-Smilek, killing him. Peck claims he felt threatened with imminent deadly force. Murdered by Farmington PD

Kollin Elderts 23, Nov. 5, 2011 Wikiki HI – While at the cashier counter at a Honolulu McDonalds, Elderts began to verbally harass Perrine using racial slurs. Perrine asked Elderts to leave him alone, not to single him out, and stated words to the effect that he was a ‘local’’. Elderts did not have any weapon in his possession during the confrontation. Officer Deedy, was in Hawaii to provide security for the Asia-Pacific Economic Conference. There was a brief but escalating brawl that involved Deedy and Elderts and their friends. Deedy showed Elderts his State Department badge and credentials and Elderts responded: “What, you gonna shoot me? You got a gun? Shoot me. I’m gonna gut you.” Deedy is up and draws from his right rear hip the gun. Kollin turns around and sees Deedy within three feet. Deedy misses. Kollin, now having been shot at by the Deedy, lunges toward him reaching for the gun. They grapple in front of the counter and then two more shots ring out. After the shots, Kollin falls on top of Deedy onto the floor. The third bullet was fired. After the third bullet was fired, the gun jams.” The prosecutor has painted Deedy as an inexperienced agent who consumed alcohol against State Department policy while carrying a firearm and “stuck his nose” into a situation “that was not his business” and the fight with Elderts. Deedy testified he had intervened to stop Elderts from harassing another customer and he shot Elderts in self-defense as the confrontation escalated. Deedy was charged with second-degree murder and released on $250,000 bail. Murdered by State Department Officer

Jason Richard Bitz 23, Oct. 31, 2011 Lakewood CA – Bitz had been given $12 and the keys to the vehicle by Rita Gomez son to help change the tire on a van and was doing so about 6 a.m when the off-duty officer came out of his home. He had permission to use the van, but was using a screwdriver to open the door. He ran after being confronted by the officer, who shot him multiple times claiming Bitz reached for his waistband. No weapon was found at the scene. Murdered by Lakewood PD

Michael Nida ll 31, Oct. 22, 2011 Downey CA – The night of the shooting, Downey PD officers detained Nida because he matched the description of a suspect in an armed robbery, but Nida fought them and escaped. Nida was detained a second time, only to escape and run again. According to sheriff’s investigators, Nida then turned toward police in an aggressive manner, and was shot 5 times in the chest and back. Nida was unarmed, likely running from police because of a small amount of marijuana in his possession and a known distrust for police. Nida was mistaken for a suspect wanted in an armed robbery at a Bank of America ATM. Prosecutors declined to criminally charge the officer, citing Nida’s resistance and that he had run from officers three times. Family settles for $4.5 million. Murdered by Downey PD

Joetavius Stafford 19, Oct. 15, 2011 Atlanta GA – Was involved in an altercation at the train station when a shot was fired into the air by someone in the crowd. Joetavius’ brother Rodney Stafford said he then saw a MARTA Police Officer Robert Waldo run toward the fight and shoot at his brother. “They were like, ‘Where the gun at? Where the gun at?’” “So after that, I heard a gunshot. Pow. Everybody started running. As he was drawing his gun, I was turning back around. My brother threw his hands up. MARTA police shot him in the back. Pow. And my brother lying on the ground, just looking at me and I was looking at his gunshot wound. As I’m looking at that, MARTA police shot him two more times in the back”. Witnesses said Stafford was unarmed and surrendering. Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard announced his office had concluded a MARTA police officer was justified in shooting a man he believed was an armed felon and shot Stafford because he believed he was going to shoot him. Shot three times in the back. Murdered by MARTA PD

Rafael Laureano 51, Sept. 29, 2014 New York City NY – Laureano had gone to the apartment after his girlfriend called him for help as her ex-boyfriend Francisco Carvajal was hold her and her 3 children hostage . Police say he helped them break down the door then rushed past officers to confront Carvajal. Police say officers told Carvajal to drop the knife several times. Police initially had said that Laureano was stabbed before officers arrived. The medical examiner said no stab wounds were found on his body. Unarmed Laureano who intervened in a confrontation between police and a knife-wielding assailant died of a single gunshot wound to the back from a police officer. Police also killed the attacker, identified as 47-year-old Francisco Carvajal. Murdered by NYPD

Barrington Williams 25, September 17, 2013 New York, NY – NYPD officers suspected Williams was selling MetroCard swipes at the East 161st Street B/D train subway station in the Bronx. Officers walked toward him and he took off. They caught him shortly after. Police claim at some point during the arrest, however, Williams became “unconscious and unresponsive.” It’s unclear whether the asthma attack began while he was already in custody or before. He was pronounced dead at Lincoln Hospital. Murdered by NYPD

Jesus Octavio Aguilar 28, (Inmate Jefferson County Jail) Oct. 12, 2011 Golden CO – The unarmed inmate, was shot as he attempted to flee from a medical facility. The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office Deputy who was transporting Aguilar fired one time during the attempted escape. The bullet struck Aguilar who collapsed at the entrance to the medical facility. Aguilar was transported to St. Anthony’s Hospital where he died. Murdered by Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office

Canard Arnold 17, Dec. 31, 2011 Atlanta GA – Arnold was running away from a dispute when he was shot in the back at an Atlanta apartment complex. The the teenager did not confront or threaten the security guard. “There was no threat of force, no threat of violence, no threat of death but claims he feared for his life as so he shot Arnold in the back as the teen ran away. Murdered by trigger-happy armed security guard and vigilante bounty hunter

Johnny Gammage 31, Oct. 12, 1995 NY? – The Jaguar Gammage was driving belonged to NFL player Ray Seals, Gammage’s cousin. Seals was not present; he had loaned the car to Gammage, who was visiting from his hometown of Syracuse, New York. According to court testimony, Lieutenant Milton Mullholland of the Brentwood Police Department began following Gammage as he drove northbound on State Route 51, after noticing that Gammage had braked when passing Mullholland’s patrol car, which was parked on the side of the road. After driving behind Gammage for more than a mile and a half (leaving Brentwood and entering City of Pittsburgh limits) Mulholland decided to stop Gammage because Gammage repeatedly braked to slow his car – despite the fact that the portion of the roadway on which Gammage was traveling is graded and braking is necessary to remain within the speed limit. Upon stopping Gammage, Mullholland called for backup, but rather than a general backup call, he specifically requested the presence of Officer John Vojtas on the scene. As Mullholland ran computer checks on Gammage’s driver’s license and the car registration, Sgt. Keith Henderson of the Whitehall Police Department arrived on the scene. Witnessing Gammage talking on his cellular telephone inside the vehicle, Henderson shone his flashlight into Gammage’s car and drew his weapon. Officer John Vojtas of Brentwood arrived next, and with his weapon drawn, had a loud discussion with Gammage which resulted in Gammage exiting the car, cellular telephone and datebook in hand. Vojtas knocked the items to the ground using his flashlight. When he raised his flashlight, Gammage knocked the flashlight from Vojtas’s hand. Vojtas and Henderson tackled Gammage and wrestled him to the ground. Mullholland joined in the altercation, helping the other two men pin the struggling Gammage to the ground. Officer Michael Albert of the Baldwin Police Department (who had arrived in response to the backup request) approached and attempted to assist in handcuffing him. Officer Shawn Peterson of the Whitehall Police Department also became involved, and joined Vojtas, Mullholland and Henderson in holding Gammage down, as one or more of the men struck him with flashlights. Gammage was eventually handcuffed, at which time only the two Whitehall officers, Henderson and Peterson, remained in contact with him, one sitting on Gammage’s legs, another holding his upper body. Within just seven minutes, Gammage lay dead. The coroner’s report showed his cause of death to be asphyxiation due to pressure applied to the chest and neck. His last words were alleged to be “Keith, Keith, I’m 31. I’m only 31”. a coroner’s jury recommended homicide charges be brought against all five officers, but the Allegheny Countydistrict attorney at the time, Bob Colville, chose only to file the lesser charge of involuntary manslaughter against Mullholland, Albert and Vojtas. Pittsburgh and Syracuse, the Department of Justice declined to bring a civil rights action against the officers and police departments involved. Murdered by at least 3 Police Dept.

George Junius Stinney Jr. 14, (inmate South Carolina State Penitentiary) June 16, 1944 Clarendon County SC – The youngest person executed in the United States in the 20th century. Stinney was arrested on suspicion of murdering two girls, Betty June Binnicker, age 11, and Mary Emma Thames, age 8, in Alcolu, located in Clarendon County, South Carolina, on March 23, 1944. No witnesses were called for the defense. The trial lasted two and a half hours. The jury took ten minutes to deliberate before it returned with a ‘guilty’ verdict. Murdered by a corrupt legal system READ MORE

Danroy “DJ” Henry 20, Oct. 17, 2010 Easton NY – Police officer came across “a large group of unruly patrons” in front of Finnegan’s Grill in Thornwood, New York, and called for support . Some 50 police officers responded to the brawl. Henry and others in the car were waiting for a friend to come out of the establishment “when a police officer banged … on the window.” Henry began driving after his friend Brandon Cox, told him he thought police wanted him to move his car. Another police officer with his gun drawn just ran out in front of DJ’s car Henry had no time to stop. Henry shot through the windshield of his car as by police officer Aaron Hess. All the people in the car, including Henry were handcuffed because it was considered a “felony stop” since gunfire was involved. Police “pulled DJ out of the car, handcuffed him, put him face down on the ground and left him there for 15 to 20 minutes.” Police a ultimately a admitted to lying that the Pleasantville police officer who shot him, Aaron Hess, said Henry was driving toward him and wouldn’t stop. He fired from the hood of Henry’s car. Murdered by Easton PD

Dale Neel 62, Sept. 15, 2011 Fircrest WA – Neel was driving home from work on his moped when Deputy Jason Smith approached in the opposite direction travelling over 55 mph to a traffic stop already covered by another deputy and a Tacoma city policeman. Smith had his lights and siren on, so Neel moved from his position in the center turn lane to the curb. Smith inexplicably crossed the center lane and entered the opposing lane, striking Neel at the curb. Neel died an hour later in the hospital. Smith was working under contract at the time for the City of University Place. He had a history of 5 prior accidents, 3 of which had been determined to be “preventable” by the Pierce County Sheriff’s office. Murdered by Tacoma PD

Christen Vargas 27. Sept. 13, 2011 Colorado Springs, CO – Christen was in some trouble the night she and three other people were seen in a stolen car at the Chief Motel. She was on the run from a community corrections facility in Colorado Springs known as COMCOR. Three sheriff’s deputies surrounded the car she was driving deputies originally tried to question the passengers in the car. Deputy Marcus Miller pulled his gun when Christen Vargas began pulling forward running over the deputies foot. As she drove away, she ran over a deputy’s foot.. Investigators say she first stopped and Miller fired when Christen reached over to put the car in park. Brittney Angela passenger in the car currently is accused of jumping in the driver’s seat and racing away from deputies. The car was dropped at Memorial Hospital about an hour after Vargas was shot. An anonymous 911 call was made and Vargas was found dead three hours later in the abandoned car outside the emergency room of Memorial Hospital. Deputy Marcus Miller was suspended for 20 hours without pay for the policy violation, one of several committed by Miller and two fellow deputies according to the internal affairs report. The sheriff’s office internal investigation found Miller and two other deputies — Glenn Boarman and Christopher Gonazalez — broke several policies. Chief among those was the fact that Miller placed himself “in jeopardy” to be run over by standing so close to the car that his legs touched the side of Vargas’. Boarman, Gonzalez and Miller didn’t notify dispatch they were stopping the vehicle. Gonzalez and Boarman also didn’t identify themselves as deputies during the incident. Gonzalez also didn’t properly position himself next to Vargas’ vehicle, the investigation found, and he failed to keep an eye on the four people in the vehicle. Murdered by El Paso County Sheriff Dept.

William Wolford Sept. 11, 2011 Pueblo CO – Died from injuries sustained when struck by police cruiser. Officer was stopped at red light and struck Wolford as he crossed intersection at crosswalk. Officer was initially cited for careless driving causing bodily injury. Murdered by Pueblo PD

FOR A FULL LIST CLICK HERE