LANSING

-- The family of a man shot and killed by Lansing police after pointing a gun at an officer has released a statement.

John Richard Ferguson, a 50-year-old Lansing man,

, authorities said.

Ferguson's family released the following statement to

:

"John Ferguson was a loving husband, son, father, brother, neighbor, friend, and gampy. He was also a veteran of the US armed forces who battled with alcoholism since his time in the military and was currently seeking medical treatment for his alcoholism. "It is a sad time for the entire community of family and friends during this unfortunate incident, and will be dearly missed by all who knew him. "Our prayers go out to officer Windom. He was doing his job that we asked him to do during John's moment of weakness. I am so sorry for John putting officer Windom in the life-changing situation."

Lansing police were responding to a domestic violence call at the Ferguson residence in the

. Tuesday.

arrived on the scene, armed with a rifle, and stationed outside an adjacent house, WLNS reports. State Police say Ferguson then came out on his deck and pointed a loaded rifle at Windom from some 60 to 70 feet away.

"(Windom) gave some loud verbal commands for him to drop the weapon," Michigan State Police Det. Dan Pekrul told WLNS. "He did not drop the weapon, and the officer's hand was basically forced at that point and he fired one shot from his rifle."

That was the only shot fired. Ferguson died at the scene, according to Michigan State Police.

Windom has been placed on paid administrative leave, as is normal protocol when police are involved in a shooting.

Pekrul, who's overseeing the investigation for Michigan State Police, said it's hard to say when the investigation will be complete.

The Ingham County Prosecutor will conduct a subsequent review of the investigation.

Windom, 13-year veteran of the Lansing Police Department, was

The man was wanted on several felony charges and fired at officers, resulting in those officers discharging more than a dozen rounds.

The man was treated for two gunshot wounds and lived. All officers involved were cleared in the subsequent investigation.

You can contact Michigan State Police at 517-322-1912.

Email Brandon Howell at brhowell@mlive.com or reach him by phone at 517-908-0711.