Larry Adams, 41. (Mug courtesy: York County Sheriff's Office)

Larry Adams, 41. (Mug from York Police arrest)

Officers search for the suspect on McClaine Street in York.

Surveillance video shows the suspect breaking into the Amoco-China Garden shortly before he was shot and killed by deputies

YORK, SC (WBTV) - A man accused of breaking into businesses in York early Wednesday morning was fatally shot by deputies after he allegedly opened fire on K-9 handlers who were tracking him.

According to the York County Sheriff's Office, 41-year-old Larry Adams is believed to have broken into the Amoco-China Garden at 1152 Chester Highway and Black's Generator Shop at 605 West Liberty Street.

The owner of the Amoco-China Garden showed WBTV surveillance video of a man breaking into the gas station. The video shows the man, who is believed to be Adams, breaking the store's window, opening the door, and walking out 28 seconds later with a cash register.

A K-9 Unit with sheriff's office began tracking Adams around 2 a.m. While they were tracking him, deputies say he fired multiple shots at the K-9 and its handlers.

A helicopter from the State Law Enforcement Division (SLED) was also called to assist in searching for Adams.

Deputies tracked down Adams outside a home at 136 McClain Street. He began shooting at K-9 officers a second time and deputies returned fire striking the suspect, Sheriff's deputies told WBTV.

Adam was airlifted to Carolinas Medical Center-Main in Charlotte where he later died.

During the search for the suspect, both the York Police Department and the York County Sheriff's Office worked together to secure a perimeter. They evacuated nearby homes and even diverted students at York One Academy to another school.

York School District One Superintendent Vernon Prosser says police alerted school officials in time for parents and school bus drivers to divert all students to York Middle School.

Prosser says the school has 50 to 80 students in grades 5 through 12. All students on buses or driven to the school were taken to the middle school auditorium, given breakfast, and allowed to return to York One Academy after an all-clear was given.

As is normal procedure with officer-involved shootings, SLED will be investigating the incident to ensure protocol was followed.

Meanwhile, deputies with the York County Sheriff's Office and officers with the York City Police Department who were involved in the shooting will be placed on administrative leave until the investigation is complete.

Adams was convicted of burglary in December 2010 and was sentence to five years probation. Officials say he has an extensive criminal history dating back to 1987.

Copyright 2011 WBTV. All rights reserved.