CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Gunplay and chaos struck again in Cleveland early Friday, this time outside a bar on West 25th Street.

A dispute inside Club Envy led one of the angry partiers to fire into a crowd gathered outside the club as it was closing, wounding three people. Two of the three off-duty Cleveland police officers working at the club then shot and killed the suspected gunman, Elijah Cole, 22, of Mentor.

Cleveland has seen a rise in felonious assault shooting cases this year. The following is the number of shootings in each police district for the same time periods in 2010 and 2011.

District 2010 2011 1st District 45 36 2nd District 44 58 3rd District 81 112 4th District 147 163 5th District 116 107 TOTAL 433 476

On Wednesday, a fistfight between teenagers on Clark Avenue turned deadly when one of the combatants pulled out a handgun and shot and killed a 17-year-old. Minutes later, an 11-year-old girl believed to be related to a 19-year-old man charged in the slaying was shot in the face.

Despite the efforts of police and city officials to curb gun violence, the proliferation of weapons and the willingness of people to use them at the slightest provocation continues to spill blood at an alarming rate on Cleveland streets.

Mayor Frank Jackson said his administration has attacked the problem from all angles.

"We're doing it all, but even with that, when police go to a [crime] scene, guns are there," Jackson said on Friday. "This is something that needs a whole lot of attention, because people don't see the relevance of it until it happens to them."

Jackson's administration sued in an effort to regulate gun ownership but was rebuffed by the Ohio Supreme Court. He enlisted the help of a local legislator to enact new state laws, but the bill never received a hearing in Columbus.

Buyback locations

Cleveland, Euclid, Lakewood, Parma and Shaker Heights hold a gun buyback Saturday from 8:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. People who turn in operable handguns will receive a $100 gift card, tickets to Cleveland Cavaliers and Monsters games and will be entered into a raffle for a $1,000 prize.

People are asked to bring unloaded guns inside a clear plastic bag that is stored in a second container. Guns and ammunition should be transported in car trunks.

Incentives are only available for handguns, but rifles and shotguns will be accepted.

Locations are:

* Cleveland Public Safety Central, 2001 Payne Ave.

* Euclid Municipal Service Center, 25200 Lakeland Blvd.

* Lakewood Police Headquarters, 12650 Detroit Ave.

* Parma Justice Center, 5555 Powers Blvd.

* Shaker Heights Police Headquarters, 3355 Lee Road.

Police continue to saturate violence-prone neighborhoods in an effort to take guns off the street. The Community Relations Department has been using gentle persuasion to discourage children from possessing guns. Another gun buyback program is scheduled for today in Cleveland and four suburban locations to provide incentives to people to turn in weapons.

Jackson said it's not his intention to stop law-abiding citizens from buying or owning guns.

"There just should be rules to the game," he said. "The unwillingness to allow for some local control, and how do we manage guns on a local level, that is the real issue here."

Police Chief Michael McGrath said it's evident that not only are there more guns, they are more powerful. And the trend continues that shooters and their victims are getting younger, he said.

"There isn't the accountability that we saw years ago," McGrath said. "There is a recklessness in this generation that is causing tragedy and broken hearts for a lot of families."

The three Cleveland men shot and wounded outside Club Envy have been identified by police as Luther Whiteside, 26; Kaenyel Stewart, 25; and Darryl Lolles, 29. Whiteside and Stewart ignored medical advice and checked themselves out of MetroHealth Medical Center while Lolles remains hospitalized with wounds to the chest and eye, said police spokesman Sgt. Sammy Morris.

Police were interviewing two men Friday who they say were in the car with Cole.

Councilman Joe Cimperman has been fighting for years to shut down Club Envy. He said he has asked the city's Law and Safety departments to declare the bar a nuisance.

"Sadly, this death is probably going to accelerate something that should have happened a long time ago," Cimperman said.