A Long Island mother sued Suffolk county and eight of its police officers Thursday, charging that the cops murdered her unarmed 26-year-old son last September by shooting him in his bedroom and letting him bleed to death without providing medical care.

"Nothing can bring my son back. He was a good kid, but he was deathly afraid of the police. I don't know how this could have happened," Patricia Callahan said at a press conference with another son, Christopher Callahan, and their lawyer, Amy Marion.

Advertisement

Police ruled the midday shooting of the unarmed former heroin addict as an accident and a grand jury convened in January agreed.

However, Marion called it "a senseless and horrible death" caused by poorly trained cops who were too quick to shoot and too slow to admit error and summon help.

Advertisement

"These officers shot blindly into the bedroom, killing Kevin Callahan," Marion said. She said Thomas Wilson, the young officer who fired the fatal shot, told his supervisors that he "had not been confronted" so "there was no basis for speculative fear" that triggered his discharge.

Police have said the officers entered the home after Callahan's brother Christopher reported to 911 that there might be a man with a gun endangering his brother. They said the officers found the house empty — until they heard someone move in a basement bedroom.

In a report issued months ago, cops said that when the door suddenly closed on one officer, he was trapped with his pistol exposed inside the room. Fearing that his weapon would be taken he fired to stop someone from "killing" him.

According to court papers, Wilson fired at least two shots through the door from the hallway outside.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Marion said the medical examiner's report showed Callahan was shot in the chest and abdomen and a third time at close range in the back as he cowered in a corner behind the door.

The lawyer said cops took the mother and Christopher Callahan into custody, grilling them for an hour on Kevin Callahan's drug and criminal history before telling them late in the afternoon that he had died.

The family's private investigator, Jay Salpeter, said the medical examiner did not pronounce him dead until 7:50 p.m. and the body was not removed until 11 p.m., 10 hours after the shooting.

Marion noted that the cops involved in the shooting were not hurt, but they were all rushed immediately to a nearby hospital while Callahan got no medical attention.

Advertisement

Marion and her clients accused the Suffolk County Police of orchestrating a coverup. They charge in their federal lawsuit that they were denied their constitutional rights, unlawfully detained and falsely imprisoned as part of a longstanding pattern of police abuse in the county.

"I'm outraged that I can't call 911 to help my brother in a situation where I thought a gun was being held to him to find out that the police went in there and took my brother's life," Christopher Callahan said yesterday.

There was no immediate response from the Suffolk District Attorney.