2014/02/08

TAMPA, FL — A 20-yr-old girl’s family has filed a lawsuit against a cop after their daughter was left in a brain-dead, vegetative state until she died.

Officer Cole, who was known as “Trigger Happy Trooper,” can be seen on dashcam video Tasing the girl until she collapsed into the pavement — ultimately she passed into a vegetative state (footage below), and died.

She clearly posed no threat to the officer, but he Tased her anyway.

She was in handcuffs at the time.

Once he Tased her in her back, she fell to the pavement and became paralyzed.

She said, “I can’t get up.”

The officer replied, “I don’t want you to get up,” as the high voltage electricity made its way through her limp body.

After surviving in a vegetative state for some time, she finally died, leaving behind her family and community.

The officer was “cleared” afterwards and was not convicted of murder. Her family is hoping that will change.

10 News reports that the same officer was also being sued by a cemetery owner whom he shot in 2012.

Regarding the dashcam footage of Danielle Maudsley being Tased, the attorney states, “This is one of the most disturbing videos I’ve ever seen.”

“Once you watch this, you can’t get it out of your head.” he added.

Danielle was handcuffed and trying to avoid the officer, wanting to be left alone at the time the incident occurred.

Instead of running to catch her, the obese officer opened fire with his Taser gun, shooting electrical hooks into her spine, until she collapsed and smashed her skull against the concrete.

This might illustrate once again a psychopathy among officers, unnecessarily inflicting pain on Americans.

Often they can be heard bragging about killing people afterwards, or laughing and high-fiving each other in total disregard for citizens.

After Americans protested the beating death of Kelly Thomas, for example, they were arrested and thrown into a police van.

As they were transported to jail, cops could be heard laughing and saying “There’s a pack of 12 cops waiting to smash your fucking faces in (laughter).”

Another cop added, “And I’ve got two words for all of you, ‘Not Guilty,'” prompting the officers to laugh again. He was gloating over the fact that the officers who were caught on film bludgeoning the homeless man to death were found not guilty.

Another incident in which a young boy was Tased to death included reports of cops laughing and joking about how the boy’s private parts “tightened up” as they electrocuted him to death.

Dashcam footage of Danielle Maudsley’s tragedy is included below. Discretion is strongly advised.

Warning: graphic footage.