Community

DATE: September 22, 2011

TIME: 3:05 PM

CASE NUMBER: 2011-527547

INCIDENT TYPE: Officer Involved Shooting

OFFICER SUBMITTING RELEASE: Lt. Erick Bohannon



DETAILS: Edward Jay Browne, WM, 37 was wanted on 3 warrants for Criminal Mischief, 3 for Attempted Burglary of a Coin Operated Machine, and one for Burglary of a Coin Operated Machine. Officers Scott Acker and Billy Dewitt of the COPPS Unit were looking for Browne to arrest him on the warrants.



While officers looked for Browne, they received information that he had been confronted by the manager and a tenant at 2415 S. Coulter while attempting to break into a coke machine. They reported that Browne was armed with 2 pistols in his waistband and was driving a white Buick. Officers Acker and Dewitt developed information that Browne was in the area of 1st and S. Buchanan and spotted the Buick Browne was reportedly driving.



As the officers drove into the area of 1st and S. Buchanan they spotted Browne and he began to run from them. The followed in their patrol car and at some point both officers exited the patrol car and a foot pursuit began.



The officers ordered Browne to stop, but he refused. The officers were catching up to Browne as he continued running from them disobeying commands to stop. The officers saw Browne reach to the front waistband of his pants at which time Browne produced what the officers believed to be a black semi-automatic handgun and pointed it directly at Officer Acker. Both Officers fired their weapons at Browne and he went down. Medical personnel were immediately called and officers administered first aid to Browne. Browne was pronounced dead at the scene. During the initial investigation by Special Crimes, it was determined that Browne pointed a replica of a black semi-automatic handgun at the officers.



Justice of the Peace Jones was called and ordered and autopsy. The autopsy has not been conducted yet and preliminary results will be made available when known. The officers were placed on 3 days administrative leave per department policy and this case will be presented to the Grand Jury at a later date.