State Police in Schoharie County shot and killed a man Sunday after he fired at police. Police would not comment in detail on the incident yesterday, but we’ll have more information later today.

Staff writers Lauren Stanforth and Scott Waldman report:

Richard Welden’s life ended early Sunday in a field across from his sister’s house when he was shot to death after firing a shotgun at State Police, witnesses and police said.State Police, who released a brief statement about the incident Sunday, said troopers responded to a 911 call about a domestic dispute punctuated by gunfire at 554 state Route 145, about nine miles south of Middleburgh. Troopers said they ordered Welden, 27, to put his shotgun down, but he refused to do so. State Police fired after Welden shot at them, and Welden was pronounced dead at the scene.

Clayton Lawyer, a friend and neighbor, said he watched shortly after 1 a.m. as more than a dozen state troopers pointed their firearms at Welden and yelled at him to put down the weapon.

For 30 minutes Welden refused, yelling obscenities at the troopers and telling them they could shoot him because

he was not going to surrender his weapon, Lawyer said. Lawyer, who watched from his house just 50 feet away on wooded Route 145, said Welden yelled at the troopers that he didn’t care that he died, and that troopers shot Welden only after he fired at them.

Juanito Sedias was shocked to watch the shooting because he said Welden was such a kind neighbor. After many of the homes in the area were severely damaged by flooding after tropical storms Irene and Lee, Welden put emergency water and food in a boat and floated it out to people whose homes were still underwater, said Sedias, who also lives on Route 145.

Just days ago, Welden helped Sedias retrieve a freezer that had floated down river.

Sedias and Welden had been drinking together earlier Saturday evening. However, Sedias said Welden didn’t appear drunk when he left at 9 p.m.

Sedias said Welden, who was living with his sister and her children, often talked about learning a trade such as auto mechanics at the local vocational school so he could find better work.

Troopers at the scene would not answer questions about the shooting Sunday, nor would State Police when contacted at the Cobleskill and Loudonville barracks. Police had one lane of traffic blocked on Route 145 and were still investigating the crime scene late Sunday afternoon.