FLINT, MI -- A plea agreement has been reached for a man who authorities say struck and killed a 13-year-old Flint girl while fleeing from police.

Mark A. Blount, 29, of Detroit, pleaded no contest Wednesday, Nov. 28 to involuntary manslaughter and operating a motor vehicle without a driver's license causing death after authorities say he struck and killed Misty Kurmas as she crossed Tobias Street at the corner of Saginaw Street on her way to a nearby church in September 2011.

Genesee County special assistant prosecuting attorney John Potbury said law enforcement and Kurmas' family agreed to the plea. He declined further comment on the case.

Blount was initially charged with second-degree murder, which could have resulted in a life sentence. Potbury said the offenses, coupled with Blount's habitual offender status, could land Blount up to life in prison. But, Blount's attorney, James Piazza, said the state's sentencing guidelines could keep his client from receiving a life term.

State police Detective Sgt. Jeff Bauermeister said in-car video from a state police car shows a 10-second northbound pursuit by a state trooper in a marked vehicle before the van driven by Blount crossed the center line of Saginaw, striking Misty in a southbound lane as she crossed at Tobias just before 5 p.m. Sept. 28, 2011.

Police said Blount -- who was wanted for an outstanding federal warrant for distribution of heroin and a probation violation warrant -- was being followed but not pursued by unmarked police vehicles when he started driving at a high rate of speed at Atherton Road and South Saginaw Street.

A fully marked state police car drove onto Saginaw Street from Oakley Street with its lights and siren activated about 10 seconds before the girl was hit by the van, Bauermeister said.

Police said Blount was arrested a short distance away after trying to run away.

Piazza said Blount was scared because he had five or six unknown vehicles following him. The collision happened, Piazza said, roughly eight seconds after a marked police vehicle activated its lights and sirens.

"This was a tragic accident," said Piazza, noting that evidence at the scene showed Blount was braking and his vehicle had a deflated tire at the time of the crash. "He tried stopping but lost control."

Blount still faces federal charges of conspiracy to distribute heroin and possession with intent to distribute heroin. He pleaded not guilty to those charges earlier this month.

According to federal court records, Blount and another man would allegedly travel to Detroit 2-3 times weekly to purchase 1-2 ounces of heroin before returning to Flint to sell the narcotics.

Authorities say Blount and the other man had purchased at least 24 ounces of heroin before Blount's arrest.

Blount's plea agreement in Kurmas' death also includes treating him as a four-offense habitual offender.

State records show that Blount has a convictions of receiving and concealing $1,000-$20,000 of stolen property and disarming a firearm from a peace officer in 2001 in Wayne County, first-degree retail fraud in Wayne County in 2007 and a 2010 Genesee County conviction of assaulting/resisting/obstructing a police officer.

He is scheduled to be sentenced Jan. 7.