Aurora police shot and killed a man early Thursday.

Jerome Blackmon, 21, was the sixth person killed in eight officer-involved shootings in Aurora this year.

The Rev. Leon Kelly, executive director of Open Door Youth Gang Services and a member of the city’s Key Community Response Team, said the number of officer-involved shootings this year “raises some eyebrows.”

“Some people think officers in Aurora are on spook status,” said Kelly, who did not know specifics about Thursday’s shooting. “They’d rather shoot and ask questions later.”

Among the first five fatal shootings of the year, four were reviewed by district attorneys who ruled all of them were justified. The fifth fatality — in which an officer shot and killed a man wielding a knife — is still under investigation.

Blackmon was shot in the 14200 block of East Arkansas Drive by officers responding to a 3:05 a.m. report of a man and woman arguing in the street.

When they arrived, officers found two people inside a white Ford work van, said Aurora police Lt. Paul O’Keefe.

Officers asked a man, identified as Blackmon, to get out, and he did. But when officers tried to pat him down, he resisted and ran away, O’Keefe said.

After a brief chase, police caught up with Blackmon and used a Taser, but O’Keefe said it had little or no effect.

Blackmon then turned on the officers, pointing a handgun at them, police said. Two officers fired multiple shots at him. The Arapahoe County coroner said he died from severe internal injuries caused by multiple gunshot wounds.

“The investigation has yet to confirm whether the suspect also fired,” O’Keefe said. “No Aurora officers were hit by gunfire during the confrontation.”

The white van was parked in front of a home that police have been called to five times this year. The latest two calls to the address were on Aug. 27, to check on a reported fight; and Sept. 17, on a 911 hang-up call that involved an argument, O’Keefe said.

According to court records, Blackmon was arrested two years ago on four counts of first-degree murder. Those charges were eventually dropped and he pleaded guilty to illegal discharge of a firearm.

His lawyer in that case, Greg Graf, said Thursday that he could not recall the case well enough to comment because he did not immediately have access to the file.

Kieran Nicholson: 303-954-1822 or knicholson@denverpost.com