Tim Hrenchir

An intoxicated man wielding a knife suffered multiple gunshot wounds when Topeka police fatally shot him in October, according to the coroner’s autopsy report obtained Monday.

The report indicated a toxicological examination showed James Nephew, 44, had a blood-alcohol level at the time of his death of 0.349 percent, which is more than four times the legal limit for driving of 0.08 percent.

“The decedent expires as a consequence of multiple gunshot wounds delivered in a confrontation with law enforcement,” the report said. “At the time of demise, the decedent is severely intoxicated with impaired mental and physical performance. This is a homicide.”

The Topeka Capital-Journal on Monday sought the autopsy report from the Shawnee County Coroner’s Office, which faxed a copy of the eight-page document to the newspaper.

Authorities said Nephew was shot at about 1:45 a.m. Oct. 6 after two officers responded to a call at 410 S.W. 13th.

“According to the initial information, the decedent was involved in a domestic dispute when police responded to the residence,” the autopsy report said. “He was responded to the front door with a knife and in the consequence received multiple gunshot wounds at the hands of officers at the door.”

Nephew’s sister, Dawn Barnes, and mother, Berdina Marshno, told The Capital-Journal in October that he went to the door of the apartment where he lived with Marshno intent on protecting her from a neighbor who had been harassing them.

The death was investigated by the Shawnee County Sheriff’s Office, which said in a news release in October that officers were called to the address on a report of an aggravated assault in progress.

Nephew came to the door wielding a knife after the officers attempted to make contact with people inside the home, the release said. It indicated the two officers shot Nephew after he “failed to comply” with their instructions.

The Shawnee County district attorney’s office concluded the officers acted “lawfully and within their rights.” Their names haven’t been released.

The autopsy report details seven wounds suffered by the 5-foot-9, 187-pound Nephew, but it doesn’t specify how many times he was shot. It says at least one wound, a scrape to the left leg, was “on the course of the axis of travel” for a separate gunshot wound Nephew suffered to the left knee.

The report indicates Nephew’s seven wounds included two to the chest and one each to the right upper arm, back of the right shoulder, back of the right forearm, left leg and left knee.