NORTHEAST MIAMI-DADE (CBS4) – A Northwest Miami-Dade man was shot and killed by Miami-Dade Police after stealing a Police Cruiser Monday morning.

Police said the suspect lead them on a chase after his own vehicle t-boned a Yellow Cab and killed its driver and left the cab driver's wife in critical condition.

Meanwhile, the family of the suspect who was shot and killed by Police is demanding some answers.

"They need to find another way to handle their problems," the suspect's sister told CBS4's Peter D'Oench,

The 55-year-old cab driver, who was identified by family members as Esperance Guerrier, died after being transported.

His wife, 62-year-old Louise Guerrier, is in critical condition at Jackson Memorial Hospital. That's where his son Greg told CBS4 that the family is holding a vigil.

Police said the driver of the Charger, who was identified by friends as 28-year-old Glenn Humes, took off running, leaving his 31-year-old girlfriend behind in his car.

She was transported to Jackson Memorial Hospital, where her condition has stabilized.

Police said Humes was spotted near North Shore Hospital at 1100 Northwest 95th Street and a female police officer pursued him and shots were fired.

Police said the suspect doubled back to the hospital and stole the officer's car which had its keys inside it.

The chase finally ended up just a few blocks from the home of Humes's mother at 91st Street and Northwest 18th Avenue.

That's where neighbors heard more gunfire.

"It was chaos, chaos," said one neighbor. "I heard 3 shots," said another neighbor.

"For police to come up and down here like," said another neighbor, "something serious really happened."

Police said Humes died inside the stolen cruiser. It's not known if he had a weapon.

It's also not known why he took off running after the accident.

A check of records showed that he had a lengthy history of arrests.

He was arrested on July 8 and September 16th of this year for possessing marijuana. He was arrested in 2009 for burglary, assault and battery and loitering.

And records show he was arrested in 2008 for aggravated child abuse.

"I'm so shocked. I feel bad about it," said Edward Johnson, who was one of Humes's closest friends. "We went to Central Hugh School together. He was my good friend."

No one at Yellow Cab was able to comment on this Columbus Day. A spokeswoman told D'Oench that managers were not at work on this holiday.