SAN FRANCISCO — The mother of an Oakland man who died during a struggle with police while high on methamphetamine is suing the city of San Leandro, according to federal court papers filed this week.

Darnell Hutchinson, who died after police used a Taser gun on him outside a restaurant last year, overdosed on methamphetamine and his death was ruled accidental, authorities said.

Hutchinson, 32, was scaring customers in the Nation’s Hamburgers at 1335 Washington Ave. about 11:30 p.m. on Oct. 9, 2011, San Leandro police Lt. Jeff Tudor said.

When officers arrived, they tried to take Hutchinson into custody, but he resisted and became violent. Officers used a Taser to subdue Hutchinson, but when he was placed into handcuffs, he immediately became unresponsive. He was taken by ambulance to a hospital, where he died, police said.

In a wrongful-death suit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in San Francisco, his mother, Katherine Hutchinson, claims police unlawfully assaulted her son.

The suit, which seeks a jury trial and $25,000 among other damages, also names officers Brian Buss and Jeff Walton as defendants.

“Officers aggressively approached and physically accosted Mr. Hutchinson by grabbing him about his upper body,” according to the 12-page complaint filed by Oakland-based attorney John Burris. “Mr. Hutchinson asked a group of witnesses not to leave in the hope that the officers would not further accost and assault him if they remained present. Unfortunately, the witnesses’ presence did not cause officers to relent.”

The suit maintains police used a Taser on her son and held him down by “digging their knees and feet into his body and leveraging their bodies against his and the pavement.”

At one point, she claims her son pleaded with officers for his life, but officers continued to use a Taser on him.

Within moments, the suit continues, her son became unresponsive and was never revived.

An Alameda County Coroner’s report said an autopsy showed Hutchinson suffered acute methamphetamine intoxication. The report also said he had a level of meth in his system consistent with that of a person who abuses drugs.

An internal investigation by the police department also determined the officers did nothing wrong, Tudor said.