PALMDALE – Sheriff’s deputies shot and killed Darrell Logan Jr., 32, in his garage Thursday morning. According to the sheriff’s report, deputies were responding to a call around 11:48 a.m. from an informant who stated that gunfire was heard from the residence.

“When deputies entered the garage they were confronted by the armed suspect and a deputy-involved shooting occurred,” the report states.

Friday afternoon, Logan’s wife of six years, Krystle Washington, 30, gave her side of the story, which contradicts several published reports.

“I never said don’t shoot me, I never said that,” Washington said. “He [Logan] never threatened to shoot me… he never threatened to physically harm me or anything.”

“It was unfair that they killed my husband,” Washington continued, choking back tears. “I want justice for my husband and for my family.”

According to Washington, the incident began on Thursday when she and her husband were arguing in the garage of their home at 3117 Heather Avenue in east Palmdale.

“Every time we get into it, he gets mad, he can’t handle it and he says ‘I’ll kill myself’ and stuff like that,” she said. “I was like whatever.”

Washington said she went back into the house and then she heard a single gunshot. Her husband had fired his gun into the air, she said.

“I went back outside and I’m like ‘What are you doing? You’re not even thinking!’ and he was like ‘you’re right, you right…’” she said. “Then he went into the garage and I came back in the house.”

Washington said, at this point, her husband was in the garage with her brother Calvin Peoples, 33.

Washington said, a short time later, as she was making bottles for her two-month old baby, she was surprised to hear deputies’ commands over a loudspeaker.

“I hear, ‘all the residents at 3117, come out with your hands up,’ so I immediately went to the door and put my hands up,” she said.

Washington said she was instructed to leave her baby in the house and go to a waiting squad car. She said she sat in the back of the squad car as deputies searched her house. On their way out, deputies brought her baby girl to her, Washington said. They then asked her for the keys to her garage, but when she said she didn’t have the keys, deputies busted the door down, instead.

“I saw them standing in the entrance of the garage door,” she said. “It was between seven to nine officers.”

That’s when the gunshots started.

“I hear about seven or eight shots, and then I hear like 30 to 40 shots after that,” said Washington.

“They came out and had my brother in handcuffs,” Washington continued. “I’m asking ‘Where’s Darrell? Where’s my husband?’ They just ignored me.”

She said about 15 minutes later, the ambulance came and she saw her husband being brought out on a stretcher.

“They were pumping his chest but he wasn’t moving,” she said. “I think he might have been dead already.

Washington said she was transported to the sheriff’s station at about 1 p.m., and told she would be questioned by homicide detectives.

“I’m like ‘homicide, that’s means he’s dead right?’ but they still wouldn’t tell me,” she said.

Washington said she remained at the station until about 10 p.m. Thursday for questioning. During that time, she was told that deputies had shot her husband in self defense.

“They said we went in the garage and Darrell shot at us and we shot and killed him,” she recalled.

But Washington does not believe this to be the case.

“I just couldn’t believe that, because if they’re standing in the doorway, seven to nine people, and somebody opens fire, somebody’s gonna get hit, somebody’s gonna get shot,” Washington said. “None of the officers were shot; [there were] no bullet holes no where near the entrance of the garage door where the police came in from. All the bullet holes are where they shot Darrell down at.”

Washington said she has been unable to communicate with her brother Calvin, who witnessed the shooting, because he is still in custody. She said at first, deputies told her they were holding him for driving without a license, and then later said Calvin was in protective custody.

Washington has also been unable to communicate with her four children, including her two-month-old baby girl. She said while she was at the Sheriff’s station, deputies picked up her children from school and tried to place them “in the system.”

She said the kids who are 12, 10, 7 and 2 months, were rescued from the system by her cousin. But Washington is still barred from visiting her children and must go to court for them on Tuesday.

“I don’t know why I can’t see my children at a time like this… I wasn’t charged with anything,” Washington said. “They’re saying, ‘with all that you’ve been through, we think it would be best for the safety of the children.’”

Washington said, after her nine-hour ordeal at the Sheriff’s station, she was no closer to getting any answers behind her husband’s killing than when she arrived.

“They wouldn’t tell me who shot him,” she said. “The police didn’t give me anything when I left… not a paper, not a report, not a detective number – nothing.”

Washington speculates which officer may have shot her husband.

“I think it was a bald-headed officer that shot him because when they came out after the shooting and they were waiting for the ambulance, they were all patting him on the back and stuff,” she said. “Then one of them came to me and was like ‘because of you, that’s why this happened, because of you…’”

Washington said the officer was referencing the fact that Washington had not told deputies that her husband was in the garage.

“So he’s saying because of me is why my husband is dead.”

Friday, a spokesman at the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Headquarters said the department could not comment on the story due to the pending investigation.

Saturday at 6 p.m., the family of Darrell Logan Jr. will hold a Candlelight Vigil and press conference at 3117 Heather Avenue in Palmdale. For further information please contact: Cristina at 661-236-1490, Stan Muhammad at 310-925-2071, or Darren W. Parker at 661-406-0862.