MOUNTAIN LAKES — Leonardo Parera wasn't himself when he entered the Mountain Lakes real estate office for the last time.

The normally friendly and affable real estate agent looked pale and nervous, said Maria Lopez, a fellow agent who greeted him at the door of Exit Realty Gold Service at 4:30 p.m.

The two agents, who had not seen each other in weeks, greeted each other with a hug and a kiss and chatted briefly. Parera asked Lopez how much longer she planned to stay. Christine Capone King, the office receptionist, was the only other person in the spartan front office.

When Lopez answered "20 minutes," Parera made himself a cup of coffee, sat next to her and waited.

"He wasn’t there to do anything," Lopez said. "He was just sitting there drinking his coffee."

Feeling uncomfortable, Lopez got up to go home.

"I’ll see you when I see you," she recalls saying.

"Uh huh," Parera answered. It was around 4:40 p.m.

Her remarks, from a recent interview with The Star-Ledger, provide the first published eyewitness account of the minutes before Parera shot King to death at her desk around 4:44 p.m. After the shooting, Parera calmly called 911 to confess the murder, telling the dispatcher he would shoot anyone who approached. Minutes after that, Parera was killed in a parking lot gunbattle with police. Four weeks later police have not disclosed whether they know why Parera snapped.

Lopez’s description of a man eerily in control even as his life was about to unravel in a murderous rage is one of many new details the newspaper gathered from a review of documents and interviews with friends, family, co-workers, customers and others tied to the case in New Jersey, Florida and Indiana.

From that reporting, a dual picture emerges of man who remained cheerful on the outside while beset by pressure and failure from all sides.

RELATED COVERAGE:



• Woman killed in Mountain Lakes shooting was a Jefferson Township resident

• Despite dramatic 911 audio, motive in Mountain Lakes shooting still unclear

• Chilling 911 audio released in fatal Mountain Lakes shooting

• Motive behind Mountain Lakes fatal shooting unclear

Parera, known as "Leo" to his friends and family, seemed like a handsome, successful real estate agent and entrepreneur. But at age 39, he had one bankruptcy and a string of failed businesses behind him. He was living in a rundown apartment in Kearny with a chronically ill mother suffering from a brain tumor. Though he told at least one colleague he was married, he was spending his free time on the internet looking for tips on how to meet women. He was flailing as a real estate salesman.

Among the new details revealed by Parera’s friends and family:

• When he was hired at Exit Realty Gold last year, Parera showed at least one co-worker a photo of an attractive woman with blond hair he said was his newlywed wife. But a family member said Parera was never married and public records include no listings for a spouse. "We’re wondering if anything he ever told us was true," one co-worker said.

• The day before the shooting, Parera seemed to be acting oddly in his neighborhood in Kearny. Though it was mid-October, he walked barefoot into the local convenience store to buy Blue Monster energy drinks. When asked why he was barefoot, Parera told the store owner he had recently been at his waterfront apartment in Florida, where he often walked without shoes. But a family member said Parera had no Florida apartment.

• Parera spent the last decade caring for his mother, Gladys. In recent years, she was diagnosed with breast cancer and a brain tumor and suffered two strokes, a family member said. The pair lived together in their small Kearny apartment, where Parera was his mother’s primary caregiver.

• With one bankruptcy and other financial problems behind him, Parera was again struggling financially. Co-workers said he was among the least profitable real estate agents in his office and had trouble making sales in a job where most of his pay depended on commissions. Public records show he also started at least nine real estate and computer-related businesses under his name in recent years. None appeared to be profitable.

• In the minutes before he pulled out his gun, Parera took a call on his cell phone from a client who said he did not want to renew his 90-day contract with the agent to sell his house. Parera was business-like as he asked if the client would reconsider. The homeowner said no. "I didn’t have much of a conversation with him," said Robert Bishop, of West Milford. "He was very quiet."

TRIGGER REMAINS A MYSTERY

Friends and co-workers still wonder if there was something or someone else in Parera’s life that triggered the shooting. If he left a note or any other type of explanation, his family and friends say they don’t know about it. "He died and took his secret with him," said Waheed Albukhari, an Exit Realty Gold sales associate and one of Parera’s co-workers.

As Parera opened fire on Oct. 14, he and King were the only people left in the front office, co-workers said. Lyle Wolf, one of owners of the realty firm, was around the corner in his private office.

In the last moments of her life, King showed no signs she suspected anything was wrong. She showed Lopez, an agent and friend, photos of her children and the pair spoke about a dress King planned to wear to a wedding. As Lopez left for the night, King promised to text her later.

King, 47, was a married mother of two teenagers from Jefferson Township and a cancer survivor, friends said. She was known as the "heart of the office," according to co-workers who would stop by the bubbly receptionist’s desk to dip into her ever-present jar of candy.

King’s family has declined to speak publicly about her death, except to say they want to know why Parera targeted her.

"I’m looking for closure myself, and waiting on a motive," King’s husband, Kenneth, said a few days after the shooting.

Several co-workers said they saw no evidence Parera and King had a relationship or any type of dispute outside of work. If police have uncovered anything to explain Parera’s shooting spree, they have not revealed it publicly.

Capt. Jeffrey Paul, a spokesman for the Morris County Prosecutor’s Office, declined to comment on the case except to say the investigation is continuing. When asked whether investigators had traced the source of the handgun and rifle found in Parera’s car after the shooting, Paul said, "Weapon tracing would be part of our investigatory process."

LIFE IN FLORIDA

Parera’s path to Exit Realty Gold in Mountain Lakes began in Florida, where he grew up with his mother and sister after his parents’ divorce split up the family.

Reached at his residence in Miami, Parera’s father, Ivan Parera, said he had not had any contact with his two children since he divorced their mother in 1988. He said he knew little about the man his son had become since he last saw him when the younger Parera was a teenager.

Ivan Parera declined to talk about the shooting, except to say, "I have sorrow because my son is dead."

About eight years ago in Florida, the younger Parera found work as a freelance computer contractor at Selective Investigations Inc., an insurance fraud investigation firm near Boca Raton.

Owner John Schwenk said Parera worked for him on and off for years. He often invited the computer expert home for dinner with his family.

"He was a pretty normal person," Schwenk said. "He met my wife and kids."

But Parera ran into financial problems in Florida. Court documents show a 2002 settlement with a local bank and a 2006 personal bankruptcy.

SOUGHT IN NEW JERSEY

Parera moved to New Jersey three years ago with his mother in hopes of finding work and making more money, a relative said. He was also hoping the Northeastern winters would help ease the severe allergies and asthma that had plagued him his whole life, the relative said.

He earned his real estate license and was hired as a new agent at Exit Realty Gold on Route 46 last summer, co-workers said. Parera quickly became known in the office as an approachable agent who would often help others with their computer problems. Though he had few clients, he dressed impressively and carried a leather briefcase, co-workers said.

Outside of the realty office, Parera tried to start several side businesses, according to public records and internet searches.

The addresses listed for the companies — which included Archimedes Home Buyers, First Jersey Real Estate, Father and Son Computer Repair and Jersey City Computer Repair — were either Parera’s apartment, post office boxes or empty office space. It is unclear if they had any clients.

On the day before the shooting, Parera seemed to be in good spirits as he spoke to one relative by phone. He gave the relative real estate advice about her house, which was about to be foreclosed on, she said.

In previous conversations, Parera told the relative he was taking an improv comedy class in New York City. In his free time, Parera also enjoyed gambling.

In the weeks leading up to the shooting, Parera was out of the office for at least two weeks, said Albukhari, a fellow agent. When asked about his time away, Parera said he had traveled to Atlantic City and Las Vegas. He told Parera he did "OK" on the gambling trip.

Another co-worker said he and Parera had taken a previous trip to Atlantic City. Parera said during the trip that he owned a gun and boasted about his success with women, the co-worker said.

The YouTube account registered to Parera’s e-mail address shows he subscribed to instructional videos on the site that offered tips on ways to improve "your skill set with women." His e-mail address was also used to register for a membership at getthegirlforum.com, a Web site affiliated with a self-described "pick-up artist" where men swap tips on seducing women.

WAITING FOR ANSWERS

But none of the tidbits about Parera’s personal life gave co-workers or family members any reason to feel unsafe around him. Most are still waiting for an explanation for Parera’s shooting spree.

Business has returned to normal at Exit Realty Gold Service. Thursday, agents were at their desks on the phone, trying to sell property. There were few signs of the month-old murder, except for a section of carpet missing beneath the receptionist’s desk where King died.

Colleagues say they still hope something or someone comes forward to unravel the mystery of the tragedy that unfolded in their office.

"We have more questions than answers," said Ian Wolf, one of the owners of the real estate agency. "We're trying to get through this as a family."



By Dan Goldberg and Lisa Rose/The Star-Ledger

Staff writers Kelly Heyboer, James Queally, Mark Di Ionno and Julia Terruso contributed to this report.