Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot, 41, was killed when he was hit by a vehicle driven by two bank robbery suspects Kristopher Cheyne, 36, and Derryl Lafave Jr., 32, both of Wyoming, on Thursday, Oct. 13, 2011. Cheyne and Lafave, who allegedly had robbed a Ravenna bank, were shot and killed by authorities after they exited their vehicles and began shooting at police.

FEATURED STORIES

• Wife of slain Walker police officer discusses husband's death, thanks community

• Father of one of the bank robbery suspects say he can "never forgive" his son.

• Fatal chase still "could have been much worse": Authorities investigate whether two suspects shot and killed in gun battle were involved in September bank robbery.

• Friends share stories of Walker police officer killed by bank robbery suspects: 'Trevor was a hero in everything he did'

LATEST UPDATES

Read below for all the latest details in the case.

5:54 p.m. Tuesday Officers share memories of Walker police Officer Trevor Slot during a visitation.

1:09 p.m. Monday Muskegon County Sheriff Dean Roesler has denied television reports that he "confirmed" the FBI had two armed-robbery suspects under surveillance in Ravenna before last Thursday's bank robbery.

12:30 p.m. Report: Wife of Ravenna robbery, chase suspect apologizes to family of fallen Walker Officer Trevor Slot

10 a.m. Sunday Robbery suspect Derryl LaFave Jr.'s obituary suggests memorial contributions go to families of Officer Trevor Slot or suspects.

7:30 p.m. A crowd of more than a hundred people gathered in Walker City Central Park to share memories and show quiet appreciation during a nighttime vigil for Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot.

3:36 p.m. Visitation and funeral services for Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot have been announced.

8 a.m After Walker police officer's death, safety vs. benefits of Stop Sticks to slow suspects' vehicles debated. Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot didn't have a chance to lay out Stop Sticks on I-96 before two robbers hit him with their getaway vehicle.

7 a.m. Saturday Father discusses son's role in bank robbery, Walker police officer's death: 'I can't ever forgive my son'. Father unsure how Kristopher Cheyne and Derryl LaFave Jr. came up with money to buy building, start new business recently.

8:31 p.m. Kim Slot, the slain officer's wife, issued a statement Friday that the father of two daughters gave his life for something he loved and was born to do.

6:04 p.m. A fund to help the family of Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot as well as a Facebook page have been setup.

1:35 p.m. Robbery, fatal chase suspect Derryl Lafave Jr. released from probation because he did 'not pose a foreseeable risk to the public safety'. "I am frustrated with the criminal injustices that have plagued me for the last decade," Lafave wrote in 2009.

12:30 p.m. State police identify suspected robbers whose getaway car struck, killed Walker police officer as Wyoming residents Kristopher Cheyne, 36, and Derryl Lafave Jr., 32.

11:54 a.m. Vigil to honor fallen Walker Officer Trevor Slot this weekend. Saturday night candlelight vigil will be held in Walker.

10:39 a.m. ChoiceOne Bank in Ravenna reopens day after robbery, fatal police chase. The bank would not disclose how much money was stolen and would review its security procedures to see if any changes were necessary.

10:30 a.m. Slain Walker Officer Trevor Slot provided trophies, ice cream to young athletes. It was another example of the kind of person he was, said Nathan Gillette, a father of two of Slot's players

8:30 a.m. Despite high profile violent crimes in West Michigan this year, crime stats tell another story. "This type of incident is extremely rare." FBI agent says.

7 a.m. Friends share stories of Walker police officer killed by bank robbery suspects: 'Trevor was a hero in everything he did'. Father of two had shifted positions in police force to spend more time with his family.

6:01 a.m. Counseling available today in Northview school where Trevor Slot's wife teaches, kids attend. Students describe an emotional day after news of the death of a beloved teacher's husband.

6 a.m. Walker police officer killed by bank robbery suspects, but 'it could have been much worse'. Authorities are investigating whether two suspects shot and killed in gun battle were involved in September bank robbery.

12:55 a.m. Friday, Oct. 14 Wyoming home searched by police Thursday owned by man with bank robbery record. The homeowner's business partner also has a federal criminal record.

8:09 p.m.: Trevor Slot, fallen Walker officer, honored at firefighter vigil. The 11th Annual Silent Night Memorial Service honored Slot and firefighters from area departments who died within the past 12 months.

6:13 p.m. Police are preparing to clear the scene of the shootout with bank robbery suspects on I-96 and expect the highway will open around 6:45 p.m.

5:13 p.m. Ravenna man pursued robbers, saw them switch vehicles.

5:08 p.m. The on-duty death of Walker Officer Trevor Slot reached the state House floor today when Rep. Lisa Posthumus Lyons called for a moment of silence in his honor.

5:05 p.m. Ravenna residents shocked by robbery, relieved to hear suspects killed by police

4:56 p.m. Police are searching the 2300 block of 29th Street, near Byron Center Avenue, in a probe that may be related to the Ravenna bank robbery.

4:55 p.m. Ravenna bank employees were held at gunpoint in robbery that set off fatal police chase.

4:45 p.m. A hearse and Life Ambulance have arrived at the crash scene near I-96 and 8th Avenue.

4:44 p.m. ChoiceOne Bank President Jim Bosserd said the Ravenna location will be open Friday, and counseling would be available for staff shaken by Thursday's robbery. "Our hearts go out to the family of the fallen officer."

4:18 p.m. Fallen Walker officer Trevor Slot was on the phone with his wife before leaving for bank robbery chase.

3:35 p.m. Slain officer Trevor Slot worked in Lowell before joining Walker force.

3:31 p.m. Ravenna man witnessed robbery from bank's drive-thru window, followed suspects

3:15 p.m. Grand Rapids neighbors support family of slain Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot. Slot was a father of two and lived in Northeast Grand Rapids.

3:12 p.m. Pay your respects to fallen Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot on this police memorial website.

3 p.m. Bank robbery police chase tore through downtown Coopersville. A mechanic who nearly got caught up in the chase said, "If I had known who it was I'd have taken them out."

2:55 p.m. Bank building robbed today in Ravenna was also robbed in 2004.

2:50 p.m. County commissioner Michael Wawee: 'May God be with' family of fallen Walker officer

2:45 p.m. Walker: City is 'devastated' by loss of 9-year officer Trevor Slot in bank robbery chase

2:25 p.m. All after school activities at Crossroads Middle School are canceled today, according to the Northview Public Schools website. The wife of slain Officer Trevor Slot is a teacher there.

2:20 p.m. Muskegon prosecutor says suspects struck, killed Walker police officer intentionally. Tony Tague also indicates no shots were fired and no one was injured at the bank.

2:08 p.m. What appears to be a State Police helicopter has arrived and landed in the middle of westbound I-96.

1:37 p.m. Westbound I-96 traffic is being re-routed around the area where a police pursuit of bank robbery suspects ended in a police officer and two suspects killed .

1:03 p.m. Police confirm Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot was hit, killed by suspects' vehicle.

12:50 p.m. The owner AAA Lawn Care said he and his employees witnessed shooting on I-96.

12:32 p.m. Northview Superintendent Mike Paskewicz issued a statement that Walker Police Officer Trevor Slot, the husband of a teacher in the district, was killed during the incident.

12:29 p.m. Dozens of police officers and cruisers and a police chaplain were at the scene where a Walker police officer was killed.

12:13 p.m. Officer was killed when struck by fleeing suspects' vehicle. Speeds during chase reached 110 to 120 mph. The suspects' vehicle crashed at the 8th Avenue exit of I-96, just west of Ottawa-Kent County line.

12:09 p.m. Part of the I-96 was closed because of the chase.

11:56 a.m. Resident in Ravenna, the small town where the bank robbery occurred, were stunned by the incident and resulting deaths.

11:51 a.m. Walker police officer, two bank robbery suspects reported dead.

11:18 a.m. Rescue crews called to the scene after the chase ends.

11:10 a.m. Chase of bank robbery suspects underway on I-96.

11:04 a.m. Authorities reported to be at scene of a robbery at ChoiceOne Bank in Ravenna.