LOWELL — Roberto Pagan stood in front of the Lowell Police Department headquarters last weekend holding a sign that said, “my son was murdered by Lowell, Dracut and Pelham police.”

Standing a few feet away from the station’s windows, Pagan said he watched as the shades were closed.

“They closed all the shades,” Pagan said. “They didn’t want to deal with it.”

Pagan is the father of 21-year-old Alberto Pagan, a Lowell General Hospital security guard who was fatally shot by police following a high-speed chase and two-hour standoff that started in Lowell and ended in Pelham on Oct. 22.

The New Hampshire Attorney General’s Office has said multiple officers shot Pagan after a two-hour standoff on Bridge Street and Hobbs Road. Alberto Pagan refused to drop a handgun, they said.

A neighbor who listened to discussions between Pagan and police has said she believes police did everything they could to get Pagan to surrender.

How many officers fired, how many shots were fired, and other details about exactly what happened remain under wraps, though.

And Roberto Pagan has grown frustrated.

His son was buried weeks ago, as more than 500 friends and well-wishers paid their respects, but Roberto Pagan said authorities have still not told him anything about what happened, or even released autopsy reports, medical reports, or even the belongings his son had when he died.

“Absolutely nothing,” is what Pagan said authorities have told him about his son’s death.

The New Hampshire Attorney General’s Office initially said it would be two to three weeks before a preliminary report on the investigation into the death was released.

“Unfortunately it’s taking a little longer than we had hoped,” said Susan Morrell, a senior assistant attorney general. “There’s a lot of reports to be done and information to be gathered. There’s many police departments involved.”

Morrell estimated it could be two more weeks before the New Hampshire AG’s office makes any findings public.

Roberto Pagan is getting tired of waiting.

“I’m going back,” Pagan said. “I’m not going to give up.”

Pagan is keeping his sign on a chair in his living room, and planning more protests in Lowell.

Prosecutors have said the Medical Examiner’s office ruled Pagan’s death a homicide by multiple gunshot wounds. Investigators haven’t determined whether a crime was committed in the case.

Lowell police received a 911 call on Oct. 22 reporting a man assaulting a woman at Andover and High streets. Police reportedly found the victim and determined it was domestic assault. Pagan, a suspect in the incident, fled an officer investigating the assault a short time later.

Pagan fled north on Route 38 before the tires on his car were flattened by spiked strips. He stopped on Route 38 in Pelham near Heath Street, got out of his car with a gun to his head and refused to drop the gun during negotiations with police, according to prosecutors and police reports.

He later got back into his car and drove onto Hobbs Road, where a police cruiser rammed his car head-on to stop it, according to officials. Prosecutors say Pagan got out of the car holding the gun and walked toward a group of police officers, who then shot him.

Pagan said his son had enlisted in the U.S. Army and was scheduled to start basic training yesterday. Alberto Pagan hoped to one day become a firefighter.

Roberto Pagan also said he wanted to clear up reports that his son had prior arrests. Those charges, for a domestic assault and underage drinking, were all dismissed in court, leaving Alberto with no criminal record, according to his father.

A Lowell General Hospital spokesman said last month that the hospital performed a CORI check on Pagan before he was hired about 2 1/2 years ago.

Lowell Police Superintendent Kenneth Lavallee said he wasn’t aware of the protest, and said he could not comment on the investigation, which is being conducted by New Hampshire authorities.

Pelham police have declined comment, also referring questions to the New Hampshire attorney general.

“I need someone to help me get answers for my son,” said Roberto Pagan.

Robert Mills may be reached at rmills@lowellsun.com. Erin Smith may be reached at esmith@lowellsun.com.