BURNHAM | Burnham Police Chief Pete Belos is praising the actions of an off-duty Harvey police officer who shot and killed a Burnham man who opened fire early Thursday at a Burnham tavern filled with about 20 people.

"The off-duty officer performed commendably," Belos said. "He was justified in what he did and no doubt saved further injury and other people being shot or killed."

Belos said that at 3:40 a.m. Thursday, a 34-year-old Burnham man, later identified by the Lake County coroner's office as Ronnie C. Bobo, of 14507 S. Torrence Ave., began shooting in the Little Brown Jug, at 14540 Torrence Ave. Belos said Bobo fired at least 15 rounds in the bar.

An off-duty Harvey officer identified himself, and Bobo fired at him, Belos said. Bobo fled out the front door and the Harvey officer followed as Bobo began firing through a bar window.

The officer confronted the man and shot him several times, Belos said. Bobo was taken to Franciscan St. Margaret Health in Hammond, where he was pronounced dead at 6:27 a.m., according to the coroner's office. One man inside the bar had been shot, Belos said. He suffered a superficial wound and was treated and released.

Belos said his department is working with the South Suburban Major Crimes Task Force to find another person in connection with the incident. Belos said the person was not involved in the shooting.

Belos said police are trying to determine why the shooting began and also deferred to the Harvey Police Department to identify the off-duty cop. Harvey Mayor Eric Kellogg released a statement Thursday afternoon, saying his office would not name the officer "due to the sensitive nature of the case and to maintain the integrity of the investigation."

"The department is grateful that no other lives were lost and that our officer was able to handle himself in this stressful situation and that his quick actions saved the lives of so many.

"The Harvey Police Department commends this officer for answering the call of duty and thinking of the safety of others before his own."

Belos said the tavern is open until 4 a.m. daily and has not had similar incidents.