Authorities said an 18-year-old driver died after colliding with an officer's pickup during a high-speed chase in west-central Iowa. The Iowa State Patrol said Jonathan Bindel, of Jefferson, died at the scene on the northwest side of Jefferson Tuesday night. His passenger, 20-year-old Miranda Parris, also of Jefferson, was taken to Greene County Medical Center for treatment. She was transferred to Mercy Medical Center in Des Moines and was listed in fair condition Wednesday afternoon.The state patrol said a trooper began chasing Bindel's car a little before 11:30 p.m. because it was being driven erratically and too fast. Sgt. Troy Hildreth, of the Iowa State Patrol, said Trooper Mike Cunningham was doing traffic enforcement along Highway 30 east of Jefferson when he clocked Bindel going 92 mph and driving in the wrong lane.When Cunningham turned on his lights, Bindel accelerated to 100 mph.The chase ended when Bindel crashed into the Jefferson officer's vehicle. Sgt. Hildreth said Bindel was in the wrong lane and hit the officer who tried to avoid the crash.The crash remains under investigation.

Authorities said an 18-year-old driver died after colliding with an officer's pickup during a high-speed chase in west-central Iowa.

The Iowa State Patrol said Jonathan Bindel, of Jefferson, died at the scene on the northwest side of Jefferson Tuesday night. His passenger, 20-year-old Miranda Parris, also of Jefferson, was taken to Greene County Medical Center for treatment. She was transferred to Mercy Medical Center in Des Moines and was listed in fair condition Wednesday afternoon.

Advertisement

The state patrol said a trooper began chasing Bindel's car a little before 11:30 p.m. because it was being driven erratically and too fast.

Sgt. Troy Hildreth, of the Iowa State Patrol, said Trooper Mike Cunningham was doing traffic enforcement along Highway 30 east of Jefferson when he clocked Bindel going 92 mph and driving in the wrong lane.

When Cunningham turned on his lights, Bindel accelerated to 100 mph.

The chase ended when Bindel crashed into the Jefferson officer's vehicle. Sgt. Hildreth said Bindel was in the wrong lane and hit the officer who tried to avoid the crash.

The crash remains under investigation.