JONESBORO, AR (KAIT) – Jonesboro Police has released an initial report into the deadly officer involved shooting on Halloween night.

According to the press release, Patrolman Nick Holley was the Jonesboro Police Officer involved in the shooting.

Police say on Monday at 4:45pm, Officer Holley noticed 57-year-old Cletis Williams outside a mobile home at 1106 Warren Street. Williams had 23 misdemeanor Contempt of Court warrants out for his arrest.

The release describes Officer Holley approaching Williams at the home, when the two men got into a fight. Police say Officer Holley attempted to use his taser on Williams, but Williams was able to stop the taser and use it against Holley.

Police then say Williams jumped on Holley and tasered him a second time. Police say that's when Holley pulled his gun. Another struggle over the gun ensued, when Holley was able to pull the gun away from Williams and fired. Police say Williams continued to come after Officer Holley causing Holley to shoot him several times.

Williams was transported to St. Bernards, where he died shortly after arriving. Williams' body has been sent to the Arkansas State Crime Lab for an autopsy.

Police say Williams arrest history does include a previous altercation with police and has a record of felony and misdemeanor convictions.

Holley suffered minor injuries to his arm and shoulder. Holley is expected to be reinstated soon, and return to "light duty." Holley will also undergo mandatory counseling and complete relevant reports and lab work.

Police also point to the size disparity of the two mean, with Officer Holley being 5 foot 9 and 180 pounds, while Williams is 6 foot 2 and weighs 250 pounds.

The investigation is being handled by the Jonesboro Police Department, and will be turned over to the Second Judicial District Prosecuting Attorney Scott Ellington for further review.

Region 8 News will continue to track this story and being you any new developments as soon as they become available.

Copyright 2011 KAIT. All rights reserved.