ALBERMARLE, NC (WBTV/AP) - One man is dead and two police officers are on administrative leave after a deadly shooting in Albemarle Wednesday morning.

The Albemarle Police Department said officers were called to 1100 Oak Street at 5:55 a.m. after a resident reported a complaint of a man banging on doors and firing a weapon into a trash can.

Witnesses told WBTV that the man, identified as James Mark Coggins of 1220 Long Street in Albemarle, had knocked on the front door of the house asking to use the phone, and that when he was not allowed to come inside, he fired at least one shot outside of the house, striking a trash can.

A former girlfriend of Coggins lived at the house. A search of court records in Stanly County found that the woman, Marcia Dick, had a restraining order against Coggins.

DIck made the call to 911 that prompted the police response. Officers did find the man in the area of the house. Police ordered the Coggins to come with them, but he refused.

Officers called for back up from a Stanly County Sheriff's deputy with a taser, but the situation escalated and Coggins was shot to death on the sidewalk in front of the house after he reportedly pointed his firearm towards the officers and deputy.

APD Officers John Eddins and George Frazee have both been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, according to Chief Smith. Those officers were not injured.

A neighbor who knew the man told WBTV that she had feared something like this was going to happen. She also said that the area around the house on Oak Street had become plagued with drug activity in recent months.

"I'm not surprised, because, I mean, I knew something like this was going to happen around here," Melissa Johnson told WBTV.

Coggins does have a prior criminal record in Stanly County that includes charges of communicating threats, drunk driving, and trespassing.

Officer Frazee is a 16-year veteran with the Albemarle Police Department and Officer Eddins is an 11-year veteran with the Albemarle Police Department.

Copyright 2011 WBTV. All rights reserved.