Flowood police said a man died after running from officers and then jumping into a lake.The incident began about 9 p.m. during a traffic stop on Lakeland Drive. Police determined that the man, who has been identified as Patrick Jerome Liddell, 35, was a convicted felon with a handgun inside his Chevy pickup truck. Police said Liddell, without warning, jumped from the truck and ran. The officers followed him to Mirror Lake, near River Oaks.Liddell dove into the lake, swam a short distance and then began treading water, police said. Officers tried to convince him to return to shore, but instead, he took a deep breath and went underwater.Police said Liddell never resurfaced. His body was pulled from the water about 10:30 p.m. He was taken to the University of Mississippi Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.Police said after searching Liddell's truck again, officers found a small amount of cocaine. Police later determined that the gun they said Liddell had, had been stolen out of Jackson.

Flowood police said a man died after running from officers and then jumping into a lake.

The incident began about 9 p.m. during a traffic stop on Lakeland Drive. Police determined that the man, who has been identified as Patrick Jerome Liddell, 35, was a convicted felon with a handgun inside his Chevy pickup truck. Police said Liddell, without warning, jumped from the truck and ran. The officers followed him to Mirror Lake, near River Oaks.

Advertisement

Liddell dove into the lake, swam a short distance and then began treading water, police said. Officers tried to convince him to return to shore, but instead, he took a deep breath and went underwater.

Police said Liddell never resurfaced. His body was pulled from the water about 10:30 p.m. He was taken to the University of Mississippi Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

Police said after searching Liddell's truck again, officers found a small amount of cocaine. Police later determined that the gun they said Liddell had, had been stolen out of Jackson.