The U.S. attorney's office in Chicago said Tuesday it is delving more deeply into the case of a man who died one week after he was beaten by North Chicago police in 2011, an incident that prompted protests over police brutality.

Federal prosecutors began investigating the death of Darrin "Dagwood" Hanna in early 2013, at the request of Lake County State's Attorney Michael Nerheim.

The U.S. attorney's office confirmed Tuesday it has launched a broader investigation.

Advertisement

Hanna, 45, was beaten and shocked with an electric stun gun multiple times during his arrest on a domestic violence call in North Chicago in November 2011. He died in a hospital one week later.

Hanna had prior medical problems including sickle cell disease and chronic drug abuse. The Lake County coroner's office initially classified his death as "undetermined" but later reclassified it as a homicide, concluding that repeated baton strikes triggered Hanna's death from multiple organ failure.

Advertisement

Hanna's death led to protests that included civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, and became one of many claims of brutality against North Chicago police that led to lawsuits and settlements. A federal lawsuit over Hanna's death is pending in court against North Chicago police.

Illinois State Police investigated the case initially, and Michael Waller, who was Lake County state's attorney at the time, declined to prosecute anyone in the case. Nerheim said he had requested the additional investigation by an independent agency at the request of Hanna's relatives.

"Considering all of the circumstances, I decided the best way to proceed was for a new law enforcement agency with no prior involvement in this case to conduct an independent investigation," Nerheim said.

Nerheim said he discussed the case with Illinois State Police, the Hanna family and North Chicago officials.

The city of North Chicago issued a statement saying it supports Nerheim's decision and pledged its ongoing cooperation with authorities. The city's statement also noted that local, county and state authorities have already investigated the Hanna arrest and determined there was no basis for criminal charges. The statement also noted two officers were disciplined in the Hanna arrest.

Hanna's mother, Gloria Carr, said she was relieved to hear of the widened federal investigation, but disappointed it's taken more than two years to be announced.

"I feel a little relief knowing they finally stepped up to the plate," she said. "But until I see action (criminal charges) going forward I'm not going to say I feel good about it. We hear about police shootings, but you never hear of getting beaten to death by police officers."

Hanna's cousin, Ralph Peterson, who has led calls for investigations into the death, said the family was still outraged that only one officer, Brandon Yost, lost his job over the death, and was "rewarded" with a disability pension. One other officer was temporarily suspended.

Advertisement

An attorney defending the police in the lawsuit, Laura Scarry, previously said there were no broken bones or fatal blows in the arrest, and that Hanna was struck to get him to comply with putting on handcuffs.

Hanna, who had a long criminal record, was arrested after police responded to a 911 call that he was trying to kill his pregnant girlfriend. She ran out of his apartment naked, followed by Hanna, who charged officers while yelling "Shoot me!" according to police reports.

Officers said they took Hanna to the floor face-first, and Yost beat his face while other officers beat his arms and legs with batons and another officer repeatedly shocked him with a taser.

rmccoppin@tribune.com