A beloved 87-year-old Brooklyn preacher out for his usual morning stroll was fatally struck by a marked NYPD traffic-squad car yesterday, police said.

Theauther Love — whose 61st wedding anniversary will be next month — was hit by the patrol vehicle at about 7:20 a.m. on Eastern Parkway between Dean and Bergen streets in Brownsville, authorities said.

Love, of St. Marks Avenue, was taken by EMS to Brookdale Hospital and pronounced dead on arrival.

“I saw him this morning,” the victim’s widow, Annie Love, 83, told The Post between sobs. “It was a regular day. He put out the trash and went for his walk. And then . . . this happened.”

“I will miss him so much,” the grieving woman said.

Love had been an assistant minister at New Frontier Baptist Church on Dean Street. Family members described him as a religious man and their sole provider for many years.

“He was the patriarch of the family,” said his son, Andrew Love, 60. “He bought this house way back in 1956 with my mother and had two sons, me and my older brother. Our younger sister has since passed on.”

He said his father had walked every day to keep fit since retiring.

The son demanded police investigate whether the traffic cop was speeding.

“He was on his way home when that police car hit him. I know that traffic cop had to be speeding. That car wasn’t going very slow. It went so fast that it killed him instantly,” Love said.

Police said that they were investigating but that there was no indication of criminality.

Andrew Love recalled his father’s long career.

“He worked as a cabinet maker in the beginning. He wasn’t making as good a living as he knew he could. He wanted so badly to be the sole provider of the family,” the son said.

“So he became a self-employed cabdriver for 38 years. He retired from that about 10 years ago.

“He was so outgoing. Most people considered him the salt of the earth. He loved his family. His family was his life. This home was his life.”

Additional reporting by Kirstan Conley and Lorena Mongelli