SPRINGFIELD — Two officers involved in the November 2011 fatal shooting of a city teenager during a traffic stop on Taylor Street will not face criminal charges, Hampden District Attorney Mark G. Mastroianni announced Friday.

Mastroianni found that patrolman Matthew Benoit acted in self defense when he and fellow officer Ivan Rosas fired on a vehicle driven by 18-year-old Tahiem Goffe during a chaotic traffic stop on Nov. 6. Benoit was struck and injured by the car during the incident.

On that night, Goffe was behind the wheel of a Pontiac Grand Prix that had been reported stolen from the parking lot of a gas station the previous afternoon, police documents show. When a towing company discovered the vehicle parked in a lot between Taylor and Worthington Streets at 1:30 a.m., officers held the vehicle under surveillance for nearly an hour before Goffe put the car into drive, exited the parking lot and turned east onto Taylor Street.

Officers Scott Richard and Ivan Rosas stopped the car at the corner of Kibbe Avenue, Richard wrote in his arrest narrative, and officers Benoit and Brendan Curran, approaching the scene in a cruiser from Worthington Street, pulled in front of the stolen car to box it in.

Goffe then attempted to flee the scene, Richard wrote, putting the Pontiac into reverse and striking Richard's cruiser. Benoit was on foot and in the path of the vehicle as it accelerated. The patrolman fired a total of 3 shots as he was struck by the vehicle, Mastroianni said, with one shot entering the passenger-side window and striking Goffe in the head.

"The officer's perception, mental processing and reaction all occurred while he was in real danger as the stolen vehicle kept moving," Mastroianni wrote in announcing the findings.

Officer Rosas fired a single shot at the car as he approached the vehicle from the rear.

Police documents obtained by The Republican show the officer was treated at Baystate Medical Center at 2:25 a.m. for “apparent minor injuries,” described in a police report as “lumbar strain, lower extremity contusions and hyper extension to his knees.”

Goffe was also taken to Baystate, where he was pronounced dead at 11:46 p.m. on Nov. 7, his death certificate shows.

Two 16-year-old passengers who accompanied Goffe that night were each charged with one count of receiving a stolen motor vehicle. Their cases have been resolved, Mastroianni said.

In addition to Mastroianni's review of the case, the shooting prompted investigations by the Police Department's Internal Investigations Unit and Detective Bureau.

In interviews conducted earlier this spring, family members of the teenager said that waiting for the results of the investigation had been difficult. In a phone conversation in early April, Goffe's aunt, Florida resident Janet McKenzie, said that Goffe’s father – her brother, Glenford Goffe, of Jamaica — was distraught and wanted to know more about the series of events that led to the shooting. The whole family, she said, was looking for answers: “I just want know – did he have to die the way he died?”

She continued: “You want closure. You want appeasement. You want to know this will never happen again.”

McKenzie said her own son – Tahiem Goffe's cousin, Springfield patrolman Dushaine K. Goffe – was close to officer Benoit, and that the incident had hit him particularly hard.

Family members were not immediately available for comment Friday afternoon.

Mastroianni thanked the Police Department, including commissioner William J. Fitchet, for providing "unfettered access" to investigative files from the Internal Investigations Unit and the Detective Bureau.

"I am confident that there has been a complete and objective investigation into this tragedy," Mastroianni wrote.

Hampden District Attorney ruling on police shooting of Tahiem Goffe