A former Jackson police officer was found guilty Thursday in the death of his 1-year-old daughter.Natyyo Gray was convicted in the Nov. 20, 2011, death of Aubrey Zoe Brown, who died of an internal hemorrhage after suffering blunt-force trauma to the abdomen while in Gray's care, prosecutors said.Sentencing is set for March 7.During testimony, Gray denied that he caused the injuries that killed his daughter. He said she was constipated, and he massaged her stomach in an effort to relieve the pain she seemed to be experiencing. When she became unresponsive, he said he performed CPR and dialed 911.Defense attorneys argued that the injuries the girl suffered, which included bruises on her stomach and head along with severe internal injuries, happened before the child was in Gray's care."I did not and could not hurt my daughter," Gray testified on Wednesday.Dr. Scott Benton, of the University of Mississippi Medical Center, testified that the baby only had minutes to live after she was injured.The child's mother, Phyllis Brown, was called back to the witness stand on Thursday, where she was briefly cross-examined by Gray's attorneys and prosecutors. She denied hitting the child, which was alleged during the trial."I loved being Zoe's mom," she said.Two other medical experts also testified Thursday, before the defense and prosecution rested.

A former Jackson police officer was found guilty Thursday in the death of his 1-year-old daughter.

Natyyo Gray was convicted in the Nov. 20, 2011, death of Aubrey Zoe Brown, who died of an internal hemorrhage after suffering blunt-force trauma to the abdomen while in Gray's care, prosecutors said.

Sentencing is set for March 7.

During testimony, Gray denied that he caused the injuries that killed his daughter. He said she was constipated, and he massaged her stomach in an effort to relieve the pain she seemed to be experiencing. When she became unresponsive, he said he performed CPR and dialed 911.

Defense attorneys argued that the injuries the girl suffered, which included bruises on her stomach and head along with severe internal injuries, happened before the child was in Gray's care.

"I did not and could not hurt my daughter," Gray testified on Wednesday.

Dr. Scott Benton, of the University of Mississippi Medical Center, testified that the baby only had minutes to live after she was injured.

The child's mother, Phyllis Brown, was called back to the witness stand on Thursday, where she was briefly cross-examined by Gray's attorneys and prosecutors. She denied hitting the child, which was alleged during the trial.

"I loved being Zoe's mom," she said.

Two other medical experts also testified Thursday, before the defense and prosecution rested.