Charles Broward

Zachary Lambert will turn 17 Saturday. It will also mark his third day serving a 15-year prison term after being sentenced Thursday for killing a motorist in a November 2011 crash as he led Jacksonville police on a high-speed chase.

Lambert pleaded guilty in July to vehicular homicide, fleeing or attempting to elude a law enforcement officer and grand theft auto. He had faced up to 35 years in prison. Following his release, he will serve five years of probation.

Christopher Thompson, 22, was driving to his mother's home from his job at Mayo Clinic about 3 a.m. when he was hit by Lambert at San Pablo Road and Beach Boulevard. He died at the scene.

Following the sentencing, prosecutor Julie Taylor, who had pushed for the maximum term, said she was very disappointed. She said Lambert is a "murderer."

A police officer testified that he spotted Lambert driving a white Toyota Tundra toward him head-on in the wrong lane through a neighborhood off Beach. Officer B.A. Tracy said he had to swerve off the roadway to avoid being hit.

From there, the chase began.

Tracy said that once on Beach, Lambert continued to drive recklessly at speeds in excess of 100 mph, continuing to swerve through lanes, nearly flipping his truck.

"That night the defendant had total disregard for his life or anyone else," he said.

The Florida Highway Patrol corporal who investigated the accident said Lambert showed no remorse when she informed him of Thompson's death at the hospital where he was treated for a leg injury.

"He was more concerned about his injuries and was very carefree about what had happened to the victim," Cpl. Martha Fachko said.

Lambert, who had been in foster care since age 5, was living at his dependency attorney's home where he got the truck.

The teen had been arrested at least three times in 2011 on charges ranging from criminal mischief to aggravated assault to calling in a false bomb threat at his school. He was on home detention, for which he had multiple violations, awaiting placement in the state Juvenile Justice System when the fatal chase occurred.

A mental health doctor testified that Lambert suffers from a combination of social and mental disorders stemming from his lack of a normal, stable upbringing and a history of abuse. A special education teacher from his middle school gave a similar analysis of a troubled student who had potential.

Buddy Schulz, an attorney on 13-year-old murder defendant Cristian Fernandez's defense team, also spoke. He said that upon reviewing Lambert's life history, he suggested that he "desperately" needs mental treatment.

State Attorney Angela Corey also was in attendance.

Defense attorney Jesse Dreicer recommended a youthful offender sentence, an adult sentence that more heavily promotes rehabilitation. He said Lambert was remorseful and had written letters to Thompson's family expressing so. But Taylor argued that the program's four-year maximum prison term and two years of probation is not adequate in Lambert's case.

Meanwhile, Thompson was described as a truly innocent victim. A 2007 graduate of Wolfson High School, he also studied business management at Florida State College at Jacksonville while working as an environmental technician at Mayo.

Two of his closest friends described him as having an outgoing, positive personalty and as being the life of his large social group.

Thompson's mother, Cheryl Thompson, said the time she spent with him during his father's Navy deployments groomed him into a man who was "wise beyond his years" and protective of others.

She gave a lighthearted example of an instance when she ran into a male friend outside a store when Thompson was 4 years old. When her son came out, she said he stepped in.

"He put his hands on his hips and said, 'You cannot talk to my father's woman,' " she said. "He was so cute."

Thompson was to leave with his family for a Thanksgiving Day trip to Georgia when he never showed up.

charles.broward@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4162