Cops: Mom Committed Suicide In Front Of Kids In Marina

A mother from Monterey killed herself in front of her baby and 5-year-old son in Marina's Motel 6, police said Monday.Kimberly Johnson, 26, shot herself in an attempted murder-suicide, Lt. Rick Janicki said.The day after Thanksgiving at 6:13 p.m., police found a Monterey man lying with gunshot wounds in the Motel 6's parking lot at 100 Reservation Rd., Janicki said.While attempting to help the 25-year-old man, officers heard a gun go off inside one of the motel's rooms. Officers went inside and found Johnson dead on the floor, Janicki said."The officers heard a gunshot, found it had come from a motel room and located a female subject who had committed suicide," Janicki said.The couple's two children, ages 1 and 5, were inside the motel room with their dead mother, Janicki said.Child Protective Services officials took the unharmed kids into protective custody.The man was transported to a San Jose trauma center, where he was listed in stable condition on Monday.Johnson had recently moved from Monterey to Shreveport, Louisiana.

A mother from Monterey killed herself in front of her baby and 5-year-old son in Marina's Motel 6, police said Monday.

Kimberly Johnson, 26, shot herself in an attempted murder-suicide, Lt. Rick Janicki said.

Advertisement

The day after Thanksgiving at 6:13 p.m., police found a Monterey man lying with gunshot wounds in the Motel 6's parking lot at 100 Reservation Rd., Janicki said.

While attempting to help the 25-year-old man, officers heard a gun go off inside one of the motel's rooms. Officers went inside and found Johnson dead on the floor, Janicki said.

"The officers heard a gunshot, found it had come from a motel room and located a female subject who had committed suicide," Janicki said.

The couple's two children, ages 1 and 5, were inside the motel room with their dead mother, Janicki said.

Child Protective Services officials took the unharmed kids into protective custody.

The man was transported to a San Jose trauma center, where he was listed in stable condition on Monday.

Johnson had recently moved from Monterey to Shreveport, Louisiana.