BEDFORD, Ohio -- Bedford police shot and killed a 28-year-old man Saturday evening, after police said he charged them with a knife moments after officers arrested his father.

It was fourth time since 2007 police here have used deadly force. Officers involved in the previous shootings were all cleared, police Chief Greg Duber said, adding that none of those officers pulled the trigger in Saturday's incident.

According to Duber, this is what happened Saturday:

Just before 6 p.m., Steven Mandich called police to the Cresswell Avenue bungalow he shared with his parents saying that his father had taken his medication.

When police arrived, Mandich was home alone and appeared intoxicated. Officers told Mandich to get his medication when his father returned home and then left.

About 15 minutes later, Mandich called again and said he wanted to kill himself.

When officers pulled up to the house a second time, so did Mandich's parents. Someone -- it's unclear if it was a family member or police -- discovered Mandich had a kitchen knife with him in his upstairs bedroom.

Officers went upstairs and tried to talk Mandich into surrendering the knife. When that failed, they tried several times to shoot him with a Taser, but Mandich was too far away.

Meanwhile, other officers prepared non-lethal options to disarm Mandich -- a gun that shoots bean bags and a gun that shoots pepper balls that release pepper spray.

Duber said when the officers tried to bring those guns inside the home, Mandich's father, Richard, confronted them and grabbed one of the weapons Officers then shot the father with a Taser and arrested him for obstructing official business and resisting arrest.

When Steven Mandich heard what was happening with his father downstairs, he charged officers with the knife, Duber said.

An officer fired once at Steven, hitting him. Mandich was later pronounced dead at Bedford Medical Center.

Richard Mandich was expected to be released later Saturday night on personal bond, the chief said.

Duber said police have been summoned to the Mandich home numerous times for suicide calls. Police took Steven Mandich for a psychological evaluation at least once.

The officer who shot Mandich, whom Duber did not identify, was placed on mandatory administrative leave pending the investigation into lethal force.

"My feeling is at this point -- yes, it (the shooting) was justified," Duber said, "but it's not my decision to make."

There will be an internal police probe into the matter and a medical examiner ruling into the cause of death, Duber said.

In recent years, Bedford police have been involved in three other incidents involving deadly force:

April 2010: Police were called to the Sikh temple on Tarbell Avenue after members reported that another member, 41-year-old Ravinder Nijjar, brought a meat cleaver into the sanctuary.

As Nijjar walked toward an officer in the temple, the officer twice told him to drop the cleaver. Nijjar didn't and kept walking toward the officer. When Nijjar was 11 feet away, the officer shot him three times.

June 2008: Jack Heaton, 52, called police saying he was going to "kill a cop" and to "send them down because I'm going to draw fire." When officers responded, Heaton threatened to shoot them and lifted what officers thought was a rifle. It turned out to be a cane. An officer shot Heaton twice from about 35 feet away. Police had been called to Heaton's home twice before for what they described as "similar type calls."

June 2007: Joseph Picciano's mother called police fearing her son was going to kill himself. When police arrived, Picciano fled in a car with a rifle. Police followed. Picciano stopped on Lincoln Boulevard, got out of his car and exchanged fire with officers. No one was injured, and police tried to negotiate with Picciano for an hour. Eventually, Picciano raised the rifle and pointed it at them and officers shot him in the head, chest and abdomen.

UPDATE: The Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner said Tuesday that Mandich died of a gunshot wound to the neck.

