ST. LOUIS • The Pagedale reserve officer charged with killing a St. Louis County corrections officer Sunday in a domestic dispute had been cleared in the shooting death of a teenage burglar two years ago.

Authorities called it "justifiable homicide" when James Little shot and killed a 16-year-old in Little's home on Dec. 6, 2011.

Little was 32 years old then and working as a Beverly Hills policeman. He was off-duty the day he told police he had caught the burglar, Jaleel Jackson, forcing his way into Little's home on Lotus Avenue.

Police say Little, "fearing for his safety," fired his pistol twice at Jackson, hitting him once in the head. That was among a spate of "castle doctrine" shootings in a few months' span in St. Louis where killings were deemed justified and shooters were not charged.

The castle doctrine was added to Missouri's "defense of justication" statute in 2007. The self-defense law allows people who encounter an intruder to use deadly force to protect themselves in their home or vehicle or on their property.

Little left Beverly Hills at some point after the burglar's death, although the exact date and reason for his departure wasn't available Tuesday. Calls to the police chief in that city were not returned. Little worked as a St. Louis police officer from 2002 to 2007. The St. Louis department says he left for personal reasons. Additional details were unavailable.

Little currently worked at Metro as a security officer, and he was hired in January as a reserve officer for Pagedale. The police chief of Pagedale, Steven Haynes, said he was aware of Little's service in Beverly Hills; the city gave him a good review. But Haynes said he didn't know about the homicide involving the burglar. Haynes said an investigator told him about it Tuesday, and "it could have" had an impact on his decision to hire Little.

On Monday, the St. Louis circuit attorney’s office filed first-degree murder charges against Little, 34.

Little is charged with killing William Dupree, 32, in front of Dupree’s house on Farrar Avenue in the city’s Hyde Park neighborhood. Dupree, who went by his middle name of Aaron, was shot to death at about 6:30 p.m. Sunday when Little came to the house to drop off a child he shares with Dupree’s fiancée.

They argued over the care of the children. When Little became verbally abusive toward her, Dupree spoke up in her defense, court records say.

Dupree and his fiancée asked Little to leave, but he refused. The fiancée stood between Dupree and Little, asking Dupree to go back into the house. Little told her he was going to kill Dupree, then fired multiple shots, hitting him in the head. Two children, ages 12 and 9, were outside and saw it happen.

Little is also charged with armed criminal action and two counts of endangering the welfare of a child.

Dupree, meanwhile, was a St. Louis County corrections officer who had worked for about two years at the county jail. He was engaged to be married to the mother of Little’s child. Dupree and his fiancée were supposed to be married in August but it was pushed back for financial reasons, said Rodney Smith Sr., who said he was Dupree's best friend.

Smith called Dupree a gentle giant, a man towering at 6-foot-6 who had been his friend since childhood growing up in Alton.

They both graduated from Lewis and Clark College with an associate's degree in criminal justice. Dupree headed to Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville to work on his bachelor's degree. He served as a military police officer in the Army. Dupree was excited by a new assignment with county corrections. Starting today, he was supposed to be transporting inmates on medical furloughs, which meant weekends off and more regular hours.

Smith said Dupree invited him over for a barbecue. When Smith arrived, he found Dupree on the ground and Dupree's fiancée screaming. Little was standing in a neighbor's yard. Little called 911 and handed the pistol to police when they arrived, Smith said.

Smith said Dupree's fiancée told him what happened. Little wanted to take his son, about 8 or 9 years old, to the park. The son told Little he had to change his shoes first because Dupree would want him to. That upset Little, Smith said. Instead of staying in the car outside, like he normally did when he picked up his children, he went to the door and confronted Dupree and the fiancée, Smith said.

"They were arguing over the children," Smith said. "The children looked at Aaron as a father. They respect him. I guess it was just jealousy. (Little ) didn't like the fact that they called him dad.

"He was the gentle giant, like my bigger brother, my bodyguard," said Precious Lee, who is Smith's sister and had known Dupree since the eighth grade.

Jesse Bogan and Christine Byers of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.