The Precinct 4 Constable’s Office was looking for a Porter man who was on trial in the 221stDistrict Court of Judge Lisa Michalk for evading arrest when he disappeared again. The search ended with gunfire Thursday evening.

On March 22, a Pct. 4 deputy responded to a disturbance call at a residence on Timberland Blvd. in Porter, where a complainant was providing details of an earlier road rage incident when a truck passed on the street with the subject of the complaint driving. The deputy rushed to his patrol vehicle to stop the truck and get the other side of the story. However, when the driver, later identified as 46-year-old Michael David Lacroix, saw the deputy he accelerated and fled at a high rate of speed. The deputy, with lights and sirens activated, was attempting to catch up to the pickup as he watched Lacroix run through two stop signs before quickly turning into a driveway.

As the deputy reached the driveway, he saw Lacroix bolt from the vehicle, running toward a wooded area. The deputy shouted for Lacroix to stop, but was ignored. The deputy lost sight of Lacroix when he entered the woods and was uncertain of which direction Lacroix took. Additional Precinct 4 units responded and deputies eventually found Lacroix hiding in a shed a couple of blocks from where he left the pickup.

Lacroix was charged with state jail felony Evading Arrest / Detention with a Vehicle and bonded out of the Montgomery County Jail the following day.

Lacroix was in court Monday when court began, but failed to return for closing arguments Tuesday, instead sending his girlfriend with a note for his attorney. The jury found Lacroix guilty of felony Evading and Judge Michalk will sentence him. Lacroix faces two to 20 years in prison for the original charge and has now added bail jumping, which carries a prison sentence of 25 years to life, because he has at least two prior convictions. A “no bond” warrant was issued.

Michael Lacroix who had an extensive criminal history and was known to carry a weapon his capture was a priority for most of the week.

Just after 4 p.m. this afternoon Montgomery County SWAT, Montgomery County Precinct 4 Constables and the Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force, acting on a tip, went to Lacroix’s sister-in-law’s home on Timberland Drive and Erika Court to arrest Lacroix. They surrounded the home, and as they made entry, a single gunshot rang out. Lacroix, shot himself in the head with a .38 caliber handgun in a back bathroom . No one else was injured.

Porter Fire Department set up a landing zone at the Grand Parkway Church after PHI Air Medical was called by MCHD medics to transport Lacroix to Memorial Hermann Hospital in Houston. As of press time, Lacroix was on life support.

The Montgomery County Sheriff’s Department, Montgomery County District Attorney and Texas Rangers are investigating.

Updates will be posted on the MCPR website and Facebook page as they become available.