GARFIELD — A grand jury has cleared two police officers of wrongdoing in the shooting of a Garfield teen last year.

Bergen County Prosecutor John L. Molinelli released the "no-bill" decision early Wednesday afternoon. He said he would release a statement later today, but no press conference would be held and, as required by state law, no information on proceedings would be released.

The officers involved, Sgt. Jose A. Brito of the Garfield department and Kenneth J. Keenan of the Bergen County police, were pursuing 19-year-old Malik Williams on Dec. 10 after Williams fled Garfield police headquarters, where he was being processed on domestic assault charges.

The county K-9 unit was brought in to help track him, and located him in the garage of a two-family home at the end of Dahnert Park Lane.

Police claimed Williams barricaded himself inside the garage, which forced them to open up its bay door. When it went up, they said they saw him armed with unspecified tools.

The officers responded by firing their guns numerous times, killing Williams.

In the months after the shooting, Williams' family and other residents staged numerous protests calling for a grand jury investigation, which was finally launched in March.

The proceedings of the grand jury have remained secret since then, but Higgins revealed Wednesday that it found the officers' actions were justified.

"I believe I speak for every member of the Bergen County Police Department in expressing gratitude that a Grand Jury investigating the most unfortunate incident in Garfield has determined that the officers in question acted appropriately when confronted by the dangerous situation which caused them to fear for their lives," he said in a statement.

Higgins noted that an internal review conducted by his department came back with the same findings, but called the circumstances that led to Williams' death "regrettable."

"On behalf of the men and women of the Bergen County Police Department I extend to the Williams family our deepest sympathies. We regret not only the loss of life but also the impact this incident has had on so many lives.”

Members of the Williams family and their attorney, Victor Urbaez, could not immediately be reached for comment.

Garfield Chief Kevin Amos did not immediately return a request for comment.

Related Coverage

• Prosecutor says Garfield teen was not shot in back by police; case will go before grand jury

• Frustrated with city permitting process, Garfield protesters continue demonstrations over police-involved shooting

• Authorities identify man shot by Garfield police during attempted escape

