ELYRIA, Ohio -- The bullet that pierced the back of Lorain County Deputy Charles "Chuck" Crausaz Monday night came from the gun of a fellow deputy.

Crausaz was shot during an exchange of gunfire between sheriff's deputies and Travis Stidham, 42, who had barricaded himself in his LaGrange Township home and then bolted for freedom.

Police said Stidham took his own life later as police from more than a dozen jurisdictions closed in on him.

Crausaz was flown to MetroHealth Medical Center Monday night. He was released earlier this week.

Elyria Police Chief Duane Whitely said the most conclusive evidence that the bullet that hit Crausaz did not come from Travis Stidham's gun, was simple geometry.

"Stidham was running away, northeast of Crausaz, but the bullet that hit Crausaz came from the west," said Whitely. "It was not possible for Stidham's bullet to have hit Crausaz."

Stidham was firing a .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol, which officials said was the size of the bullet that killed him.

Whitely said an investigation revealed that the armor-piercing bullet penetrated Crausaz's vest on the side, toward the back. The bullet fragmented and hit Crausaz. Parts of the bullet are still in Crausaz's body. He said they also made the determination by comparing the size of the hole in the vest to the weapons involved.

Deputy Steve Fuller, who was armed with an AR-15 rifle, fired the shot that struck Crausaz, Whitely said.

Elyria was asked to investigate the shooting by the Lorain County Sheriff's office to avoid the appearance of a conflict. Whitely said he presented his detectives findings to Lorain County Sheriff Phil Stammitti, who took it in stride.

"The sheriff is a pretty straightforward guy," Whitely said. "He was not happy, but he understood."

Whitely said police were working in poor conditions the night of the shooting.

"It's hard to convey how dark it was out there, a place with no street illumination," he said. "Police could not see anything."

Stidham's mother, who lives in Tennessee, called Lorain County Sheriff's dispatchers at 7:15 p.m. Monday and said she was told that her son had been acting strange.

She said she was told her son believed the television talked to him and told him his black cat and black dog were evil. She said he shot the animals and the television. Police later said they found no dead animals in the house, but did find a television with a bullet hole in it.

Deputies arrived at the house at 7:50 p.m. and saw Stidham inside holding a gun. Deputies called for the S.W.A.T. team. Once the house was surrounded, police tried to talk to Stidham using a PA system.

Stidham didn't respond until about 8:30 p.m., when he ran out of the house firing a handgun at officers.

Crausaz fired his shotgun twice before he was shot.

Other officers also fired, according to a neighbor, but Stidham ran into a field and a woods.

Deputies called for backup from surrounding communities and Cleveland. Officers surrounded the area and set up roadblocks to check vehicles leaving the area.

Cleveland police in a helicopter used infrared vision to search woods and fields and spotted Stidham about 10:15 p.m. in a field near Ohio 301, about a mile from his home.

As officers approached Stidham, police said he raised a weapon to his head and shot himself.

"The copter was a huge help," said Whitely. "It lit up the area and allowed police to see what was going on. Otherwise, the suspect would have been able to see the officers because of their flashlights, but they would not have been able to see him."