A Riverside County sheriff’s deputy was being held on $1 million bail Thursday after he was booked for investigation of murder in a fatal shooting Wednesday night at a Murrieta sports bar.

Dayle William Long, 42, a 10-year department veteran, was off-duty when investigators say he shot a Winchester man to death.

Samuel Vanettes, 36, died at the scene of the 7:59 p.m. Wednesday violence at Spelly’s Pub and Grill at 40675 Murrieta Hot Springs Road.

Police arrived three minutes later and detained Long just outside the front door, Lt. Tony Conrad said in a written statement.

Long told officers he was an off-duty deputy, the statement said. Officers then found Vanettes inside the building, suffering from several gunshot wounds.

Murrieta police, who are investigating the shooting, did not disclose a motive for the shooting.

Long’s bail is set at $1 million. He is being held at Southwest Detention Center, booking records show.

The Sheriff’s Department said it was conducting an internal investigation, though Conrad said Murrieta police and the Riverside County district attorney’s office were handling the criminal investigation.

Sheriff’s spokesman Joe Borja said Long is assigned to the courthouse in downtown Riverside.

“Long’s peace officer powers have been suspended, and he will be placed on administrative leave if he is released from custody,” Borja said.

Long filed for bankruptcy protection in April 2010, citing more than $780,000 in debts, according to court records. The case was completed last month.

Spelly’s has been open about a year-and-a-half in a shopping center just west of Rancho Springs Medical Center, between the 15 and 215 freeways.

Thursday morning, underneath a bank of football jerseys hanging from the ceiling, an employee mopped the floor as the sports bar prepared to open at its usual time, 11 a.m.

Pub owner Joe Spellman said he arrived 15 minutes after the shooting Wednesday night, after his manager called. He said the establishment has many regulars but he didn’t recognize either the victim or the alleged shooter.

About 25 to 30 people were in the pub when Vanettes was killed, Spellman said, during the time of night between the normal dinner rush and late-night karaoke.

The pub had never seen any kind of violence before Wednesday, Spellman said.

“This is a family restaurant,” he said. “People get loud yelling at the football games on Sunday.”

The shooting forced Murrieta police to divert investigators who had been searching for the suspect in a fatal stabbing earlier in the week, Conrad said.

At 4 a.m. Monday morning, an 18-year old woman was stabbed to death and two others in her household were injured in an attack.

Police are still searching for the possible suspect in that attack, identified as William Gary Simpson Jr.

“This threw a monkey wrench in it a little bit, because it’s eating up some of our resources,” Conrad said.

However, he said federal, state and other local agencies are helping in the search for Simpson.

Tuesday’s killing marked Murrieta’s first murder since January 2010.

Spellman, a Boston-area native, said he was upset that Murrieta, which has been welcoming and supportive of his business, had seen tragedy twice this week.

“It’s a shame that the community has had this and the other incident the other night” in what is actually a very safe city, Spellman said.