The second suspect police say was involved in the Dec. 17 death of an Elgin man died a few days later, police said today.

Marvin G. Finklea, 27, of Elgin, died on Dec. 22 at Provena St. Joseph Hospital, after he was found walking in a road, injured and carrying a bottle of alcohol following what police say was his second carjacking attempt of the night.

Advertisement

Authorities did not explain why they waited five days to release information about Finklea's death.

At the time of his death, Finklea was named as a suspect in the death of 61-year-old James S. Granger, who was found around 4:45 a.m. Dec. 17 by firefighters responding to a blaze at his apartment at 1 Times Square.

Advertisement

An investigation revealed the victim was stabbed numerous times before the fire, police said. An autopsy of Granger is also pending.

Jessica Leach, 28, who lived with Finklea, was charged with first-degree murder in Granger's death. She remains in the Kane County jail, held on $1 million bail.

Police said Leach and Finklea were attempting to rob Granger at the time of his death, and the apartment was set on fire after the robbery. Leach and Granger reportedly were friends.

Police also believe Finklea is responsible for two attempted carjackings the evening of Dec. 17 – one of which led to his death. In the first report, a woman told police Finklea pulled her out of her car, got in and then crashed into the window of Elgin Liquor and Wine, 1350 East Chicago St.

Moments later, police were waved down by another man reporting that Finklea attempted to carjack his SUV. Finklea broke the SUV's window and was hanging on to the vehicle, but the victim continued to drive, police said. Finklea was dragged an unknown distance before falling off.

Around that time, Elgin police also received several telephone calls from Finklea threatening police. As officers were arriving in the area to investigate the calls, they found Finklea in the street with a bottle of alcohol.

Finklea was bloody, highly agitated and resisted arrest, police said. He was immediately taken to the hospital where he later died.

kthayer@tribune.com