The identities of a man and a woman found dead after a SWAT standoff at a Serra Mesa home were released on Thursday and court documents show police have been to the couple's house before.

On Wednesday, the bodies of Sekai Southern, 36, and Portia Southern, 26, were found inside a home in the 3300 block of Wainright Lane and Hurlbut Street, which is just south of Montgomery Field, at about 3:40 p.m., according to police. The home is located inside military housing.

The discovery of the bodies came after a nearly three and a half hour stand-off outside the home after police received a call at about 12:39 p.m. from a man who claimed to have killed his wife and that he would take his own life.

When police arrived on the scene, an officer spotted a woman attempting to leave the home when a man dragged her back inside the residence, police said.

Officers heard screaming and words exchanged, at which point they called for backup. Police said the woman screamed that the man had a gun.

SWAT and NCIS arrived, at which point the standoff began.

Officials were unable to get into contact with either of the Southerns during the standoff.

Once officials were able to get inside the home, they found the couple dead from gunshot wounds, officials said.

The couple has an 18-month-old son and a 5-year-old daughter. The 18-month-old was found inside the home, alive and unhurt in a playpen. The 5-year-old was said to be at school at the time of the incident. Both children were placed with relatives following the standoff.

Court documents show that Wednesday's incident wasn't the first time police had come to the home.

Court records show police were called to the Southern's home last July on reports of domestic violence.

Sekai Southern was arrested and booked on suspicion of spousal battery, however he was never charged.

Court records also indicated that Portia Southern filed for a paternity last year. The couple had been married for two years.

NBC San Diego learned both Sekia and Portia served in the military.