An armed man shot during a confrontation with Hemet police Dec. 26 died Jan. 4, coroner’s officials said Friday.

An attorney hired by the family of James Flores announced the death this week. The Riverside County coroner’s office reported it Friday afternoon on its website shortly after being called for comment.

Hemet police Lt. Duane Wisehart said Friday that the department never asked the coroner’s office not to publicly disclose the death, but that it was an oversight. There was a murder-suicide at the Hemet courthouse the day Flores died.

The shooting occurred after Flores’ family called Hemet police to their apartment complex in the 200 block of West Devonshire Avenue during a domestic disturbance the night after Christmas.

The department said at the time that Flores was expected to survive the gunshot wounds and would be arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.

Flores, 44, died at Riverside County Regional Medical Center nine days later, according to the Riverside County coroner’s office. Authorities did not report the death at the time.

Details of the shooting came to light this week through a search warrant served in the days that followed.

Hemet police were called to the apartment at 11 p.m. Dec. 26 as Flores’ wife was hiding in a bedroom closet with her son, according to the search warrant.

The wife said Flores was in the living room firing a shotgun. She said she was too afraid to leave because she would have to walk past Flores to get outside, according to the warrant. They eventually climbed out a bedroom window.

Flores was overheard calling his family to say goodbye. He told his mother that “they can bring him back to Texas in a body bag,” the warrant states.

Four Hemet police officers arrived at the apartments and saw Flores holding a rifle in the outside courtyard.

Officer Ian Baily said he saw what he thought was muzzle flash coming from Flores’ direction.

“Officers Baily, (Patrick) Long and (Derick) Spoelstra, fearing for their own safety, fired their service issued weapons, striking Flores several times,” the warrant states. The fourth officer, Cpl. Glen Brock, did not fire.

Police returned to the home the day after the shooing to collect evidence, including a pistol, bullets, clothing and beer cans.

The district attorney’s office will review the case.