SANTA ANA – Police and hospital staffers were not responsible for the death of a schizophrenic transient who died while undergoing a mental health evaluation after a fight with officers and churchgoers, Orange County prosecutors have determined.

Orange County District Attorney’s Office investigators determined that Mario Marin, 53, died on Jan. 2, 2012, from respiratory failure following a “sequence of traumatic events,” according to a letter outlining the results of their investigation. An autopsy was unable to determine exactly when the injury that led to his death was sustained; authorities say Marin was “combative” numerous times in the days leading up to his death.

Shortly after 10 p.m. on Dec. 28, 2011, police were called to the City Lights Dream Center Church, where Marin, who was “under the influence of alcohol and marijuana and appeared to be of unsound mind” had cursed at church members and punched a pastor in the face, according to the district attorney’s report.

Churchgoers and several officers tried to restrain Marin. One officer used an electronic stun gun on Marin, but investigators say it had little effect. It ultimately took five officers to control Marin, according to the report.

Marin was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital, then later transferred to UCI Medical Center in Orange for a mental health evaluation. Marin told doctors that he had abused drugs and that he “heard voices,” according to the district attorney’s report.

Early on Jan. 2, 2012, Marin tried to leave the hospital and became “combative” with hospital staff, investigators said, forcing security to strap him to a bed. Hospital staff told the investigators that Marin began purposely holding his breath for long periods of time, and appeared to be pale with his eyes fixed on the ceiling. He was later found unresponsive, and after life-saving measures failed was pronounced dead.

An autopsy found numerous bruises and abrasions on Marin’s body, according to the district attorney’s report. One of the injuries, a tear in the center of his pancreas, is believed to have been a contributing factor in his death, but a forensic pathologist told the district attorney’s investigators that it would be difficult to determine when the injury was sustained. The pathologist also told the investigators that physicians would have had a difficult time diagnosing Marin’s injury if he was being combative and not communicating with them.

“It is impossible to know exactly which of the many reported fights caused Marin’s injuries,” the investigators concluded in their report. “It should be noted that in all the fights leading up to his death, Marin was the aggressor … Marin’s death was due to a combination of a schizophrenic break, assaultive behavior and lack of cooperation with treating physicians.”

Contact the writer: 714-796-7939 or semery@ocregister.com