Chicago police officers answering a domestic call on the city's Southeast Side this morning shot and killed a knife-wielding man who charged at them, officials said.

The dead man had several arrests for domestic violence, including one earlier this year, court records show.

Advertisement

No officers were injured in a tense standoff between officers and the man, identified as Karaka Walls, 24, who a police union official said held a relative at knifepoint at his apartment in the 9500 block of South Avenue L.

Officers from the South Chicago District were responding to a domestic call at the apartment when they were met outside by a relative who told them that the suspect was holding another family member hostage inside, said Pat Camden, a spokesman for the Fraternal Order of Police.

Advertisement

After entering the third-floor apartment, the officers encountered the suspect holding a knife to the relative, but were able to talk him into releasing the family member, Camden said.

Walls refused numerous commands to drop the knife, according to Camden. "Instead, he charges at the officers and, at that point, he was shot. DOA," Camden said.

Walls was pronounced dead at 3:50 a.m., according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Investigators with the Independent Police Review Authority, which is tasked with investigating police-involved shootings, were on scene, said Scott Ando, IPRA's first deputy chief.

Police had been called to the East Side home numerous times for previous domestic disturbances, Camden said.

Walls had at least three arrests for domestic battery since 2005, according to court records. In 2010, a judge sentenced him to 18 months of conditional release after he was convicted of domestic battery and criminal damage to property, records show.

Last September, Walls was again charged with domestic battery, but the charge was dropped a month later.

Domestic calls are often among the more dangerous situations that officers face, said Camden, who added that the dead man left officers little recourse.

Advertisement

"You've got an armed individual that refuses to drop the weapon and (it) puts the officers in a position where they're left no choice but to defend themselves," he said.

In an official statement, police confirmed that the man refused to drop the knife and that officers shot the man when he "lunged" at them. But the statement didn't mention the man holding a relative at knifepoint.

Twitter: MidNoirCowboy