The family of a 23-year-old Perris man fatally shot by deputies in December has filed a claim against Riverside County alleging misconduct, the family’s lawyer said.

The claim alleges that Mark Anthony Trujillo was unarmed when deputies shot him, without warning, through a closed bathroom door in his parents’ mobile home.

“At no time during the course of these events did Mr. Trujillo pose any reasonable threat of violence to the (deputies), nor did he do anything to justify the force used against him,” according to a copy of the claim, dated Feb. 29 and provided by Jamon Hicks of The Cochran Firm in Los Angeles.

The claim also alleges the deputies were negligently trained and “had known propensities for acting in the fashion that they did.”

Sheriff’s officials have not released the names of the deputies involved in the shooting.

Sheriff’s spokesman Sgt. Joe Borja said Friday that the department stands by its original statement that deputies fired when Trujillo charged at them with a knife.

The county will have 45 days to respond to the claim. Assuming it is rejected, Hicks said, he plans to file a lawsuit.

Prior to the Dec. 29 shooting at the family’s 350 E. San Jacinto Ave. mobile home, sheriff’s officials said, Trujillo’s father had called 911. The man said his son had attempted suicide by cutting himself and that the father had convinced him to relinquish the knife, sheriff’s officials said.

But when deputies arrived about 10 minutes later, they found Trujillo armed with a kitchen knife, sheriff’s officials said. Trujillo refused to drop the weapon and struck one of the deputies, they said.

Sheriff’s officials said the deputies used a Taser on Trujillo but it failed to subdue him. The deputies backed away and opened fire when Trujillo charged at them with the knife, sheriff’s officials said.

Hicks said Trujillo was unarmed. Hicks said he went into the bathroom after deputies arrived, closing and locking the door.

Though the entire door was not in view, Trujillo’s parents, Godfrey and Silvia Trujillo, could see that it was still closed when they heard the shots, Hicks said.

Hicks said the family, particularly the oldest of Mark Trujillo’s two sons, is struggling with his death.

“There’s a lot of pain. A lot of grief,” Hicks said. “Like any family, they want answers.”

“The one thing that’s really, really, sad is that they were calling the police to come help him,” Hicks said.

Instead, the call ended in tragedy, he said.

After the shooting, Trujillo’s relatives said he had been having problems with his girlfriend and had been jailed after a fight with her. Trujillo was released before Christmas but the girlfriend would not allow him to see their children and he became despondent, the family said.

Riverside County Superior Court records show Trujillo was arrested Nov. 22 and pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor domestic violence charge. He was released from jail Dec. 22.

The family said Silvia Trujillo discovered her son Dec. 29 bleeding from a self-inflicted cut to his neck. Mark Trujillo told his mother he had tried to kill himself but regretted what he had done and asked her to call for medical aid, the family said. When deputies arrived, he feared they would take him back to jail, the family said.

“He didn’t want to die,” Trujillo’s brother-in-law, Gerardo Salazar, said at the time. “He wanted help. He wanted an ambulance.”