A man at the Hemet courthouse for a child-support hearing calmly walked up to his wife’s car and fired two fatal shots, then led police on a car chase before killing himself Wednesday morning, according to witnesses and police.

Ralph Costales, 54, of Nuevo, and his estranged wife, Aimee Schulz, 37, were scheduled to appear in family court for a child and spousal support hearing at 8:30 a.m.

Court documents in the case named two daughters, ages 10 and 14. Authorities said the couple’s children were not present during the shooting.

20120105_eshooting video

Police believe Costales and Schulz had arrived separately at the courthouse on North State Street about 8 a.m. when Costales approached his wife’s car and they had a brief argument, Hemet police Lt. Duane Wisehart said. Costales then walked away.

Witnesses said they heard a gunshot, then saw Costales walk back toward Schulz’s Honda Pilot SUV carrying a gun as Schulz tried to back away. He calmly approached her window and fired twice at point-blank range, then sped away in a silver Mercedes Benz.

Riverside County sheriff’s deputies at the courthouse saw him flee, and Hemet police officers caught up to the Mercedes. They followed him for about five miles before he pulled over in west Hemet and shot himself, causing the car to accelerate and crash into a ravine, Wisehart said.

Costales had no criminal record in Riverside County, and the couple had no history of domestic violence with each other, nor was there a restraining order in the case. However, Costales was accused of domestic violence in a previous divorce.

‘A HORRIBLE SIGHT’

Kimberly Jones, 45, of Hemet, said she was in her car when she heard the first gunshot, which she thought was a firecracker. She looked back to see Schulz back away quickly.

Jones ducked as additional shots were fired, then ran over to find Schulz bleeding and slumped over in the driver’s seat. Jones, who is a nurse, said she tried to resuscitate the woman in the parking lot as Costales casually walked back to his car.

“I saw her breathe and thought I could do CPR, but it was her last breath. Then I backed away and I looked at him,” Jones said. “He was angry enough to kill her, so my thought was if he couldn’t have her then maybe he didn’t want anyone else to. It was just a horrible sight to see.”

The Honda Pilot remained in the courthouse parking lot Wednesday with the door open and the driver’s side window shattered from the gunshots as authorities investigated.

Police closed off a portion of the courthouse parking lot, stranding about 50 people who were unable to get to their cars to leave, but the courthouse remained open. The Hemet branch of the Riverside County courts handles family law cases in addition to civil, small claims and traffic issues.

Across town, Hemet police blocked off Myers Street between Devonshire and Florida avenues, where they said Costales shot himself.

Halfway down Myers Street, Costales’ Mercedes sat in a shallow ravine about 10 to 15 yards off the west side of the road. The driver’s side door hung open.

Police set up a small command station on the two-lane street, which has vacant fields on either side and serves as an entry to a WinCo supermarket on Florida Avenue.

CUSTODY CASE

Court records show Costales and Schulz married in 2004 and separated in October. They last appeared in court Dec. 20 for a hearing on child support and use of a vehicle.

Schulz told the court in September that she was unemployed and receiving $550 in monthly aid. She asked for Costales to be required to make child and spousal payments and to make payments on their Honda Pilot until she could afford to get her own vehicle.

“I need hearing because of no income but aid,” Schulz wrote in court documents. “Living on my brother’s couch, looking for work daily, been unsuccessful. Children need their own home and stability.”

Schulz listed an address on the divorce forms for a remote property among horse ranches in the Juniper Flats area between Hemet and Perris. There was no answer Wednesday afternoon outside the split-level house, which is surrounded by chain-link fences and “No trespassing” signs.

Costales and his previous wife, Melinda Costales, filed restraining orders against each other during their 2000 divorce. Melinda Costales and her two sons, then 18 and 16, accused him of domestic violence. No criminal charges were filed.

Following Wednesday’s shooting, just before noon the court made an entry in its minutes in the child support case.

“No appearance by either party, matter taken off calendar.”

Also contributing to this report: Staff writer Richard K. De Atley, rdeatley@pressenterprise.com