UPDATED at 2:53 p.m. to show man apparently died of result of self-inflicted gunshot wound.

WENTZVILLE • When police went to check on the welfare of a man at a Wentzville hotel Thursday morning, he began shooting at them through the door.

The three officers, who were not hit, returned fire, and the man, Mark C. Curl, 54, was later found dead in the room.

Preliminary results from an autopsy today show that he apparently died of a self-inflicted handgun wound, Wentzville police Capt. Kevin Pyatt said.

The shootout happened shortly before 9 a.m. at the Economy Inn along Interstate 70 near Highway 61. Curl lived in the 1400 block of Plaza Place in Wentzville, in the Wenzville Heights neighborhood directly behind the hotel.

Pyatt said officers went to the hotel after the man's family called police and asked the department to check on him because he seemed distraught.

Pyatt said that when officers knocked on the door of Curl's room on the ground floor and announced their presence, Curl began shooting and the officers fired back. The exchange lasted only a few seconds, he said.

More than two hours later, police pushed the door open and found Curl dead of a bullet wound.

Colleen O'Keefe, 33, who lives at the hotel with her husband and 2-year-old daughter, Anna-Belle, was in their room with her daughter when they heard the gunshots. She told her daughter to lie on the floor.

"I didn't know what was going on," she said. "I was out of my mind. All I could think was get on the floor."

She said Anna-Belle kept asking what the sound was. "You could tell there was some fear because it wasn't a sound she had heard before," O'Keefe said.

Eventually, a friend in a nearby room called her and told her what had happened, and police gave them the OK to leave.

Ray Valentine, who lives at the hotel with his wife, Stephanie, and their four children, was sleeping until he was startled by the gunshots. Their daughter Mariska, 4, was with them, and their older three children were already at school.

The family stayed inside their room until they got the all-clear by police.

"I wasn't about to open that door, no way," Valentine said.

A police officer at Curl's house said counselors were speaking with Curl's wife. A family friend at the home declined to talk to a reporter.

Neighbors and the officer said the couple have grown children.

Neighbors said the family kept to themselves and didn't cause any trouble.

"I feel bad," said Dawn Starks, who lives across the street. "They're good people."