A 32-year-old San Bernardino man was shot and killed by police after firing a gun and running from them on Saturday.

The shooting happened shortly before 7:30 a.m. when two police officers on patrol saw a man, later identified by police as Lorenzo Baca, walking alone with a sharp object sticking out of his rear pants pocket in the 800 block of West 5th Street at the Interstate 215 overpass, according to a San Bernardino police news release.

As police tried to stop the man, he began running west. One officer chased him before he turned toward the officer and fired a handgun, police said.

The officer fired back and the man continued running before firing a second shot. The officer fired again as the man ran down a steep embankment before reaching into his front waistband and ignoring the officer’s orders to show his hands, police said. The officer shot the man.

He was taken to Loma Linda University Medical Center where he died a short time later.

A loaded semi-automatic handgun and screwdriver were found nearby.

Neither officer was shot. One officer complained of knee pain.

The case was turned over to the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office to be reviewed.

A man matching Baca’s name and age has a lengthy record in San Bernardino County Superior Court files.

Among the cases are 2003 guilty pleas to a loaded firearm and buying or receiving stolen property charges for which he received a 16-month prison sentence, and a 2004 guilty plea to assault with a firearm for which he received a four-year prison term. He had burglary convictions in 1998 and 1999.

Baca’s 1999 probation terms include a court order not to associate with known gang members, and to report to a local police agency’s gang detail. He was also prohibited from wearing, displaying “or have in your possession any item associated with gang dress.” The court documents available Saturday do not directly call him a gang member, however.

The soutbound off-ramp to Interstate 215 was closed for about seven hours as police conducted an investigation into the shooting.