Drew Ryan Maras was killed in a shootout with deputies Sunday KPHO/Facebook

(CBS/AP) FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. - Authorities are expected to release information today about a possible link between the mysterious deaths of a New Hampshire couple found dead in their car in northern Arizona Friday, and the fatal shooting of a Maricopa County deputy on Sunday.

There is speculation that the killings were committed by a former Marine named Drew Ryan Maras, who died in a shootout with officers in Phoenix on Sunday.

Deputy William Coleman was shot to death after responding to a burglary call at a Phoenix medical building. A man got out of a car and opened fire.

The couple, James Johnson and Carol Raynsford, both 62, were found dead in their car on a remote highway turnout near Sedona. Their deaths have baffled authorities. But the high-powered rifles believed to be used in both cases may provide clues, and the crime scenes are connected by Interstate 17.

"Because of the type of weapon used in Sedona, he could be the guy," Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio said, adding investigators are awaiting ballistic results to determine whether Maras, 30, killed Coleman, Johnson and Raynsford.

Detectives found numerous casings from a .223-caliber rifle on both sides of Johnson and Raynsford's car. Some callers reported seeing the car parked at the turnout on Thursday. But so far, authorities know of no motive for the couple's death.

"There does not appear to be an indication of a robbery, any indication of provocation on the part of the victims," said Yavapai County sheriff's spokesman Dwight D'Evelyn. "It's a mystery."

According to Raynsford's piano teacher and friend, Jayne Kelly, Johnson and Raynsford were looking for a house for Johnson and planned to head home at the end of the month.

"They both loved nature equally," Kelly said. "They would go off to different places - often to Arizona - and just hike and camp in the most rustic style and love it."

Deputy Coleman, 50, was a 20-year veteran of law enforcement. He is survived by a wife and two young children, ages 4 and 7, Arpaio said. He also has grown children in another state.



Neighbors of Maras, told CBS affiliate KPHO said they were surprised to hear he might be linked to three killings. One said he "kept to himself," another described him as "a lonely guy."



Maras was reportedly the author of a book about the end of the world called "Open Your Eyes: To 2012 and Beyond."

"He was pretty intelligent about all this 2012 stuff, like he really did take his time and study about that," neighbor John Demarr said. Demarr also said that Mara had spoken about moving to Hawaii.

"That is mind blowing," said Demarr. "It's insane to figure this out right now because I didn't think that he'd do that."

More on CrimesiderJanuary 9, 2012 - Authorities look for a link between Arizona slayings