Clifford Davis

A dangerous and bizarre series of events led up to a St. Johns County man's final moments in a fatal SWAT standoff Thursday.

The Sheriff's Office identified the dead man as 59-year-old Daryl L. Atkins, shot in the head by deputies.

About 8 p.m. Rich Hagan, Atkins' next-door neighbor, saw him passed out on the ground in front of his Ponte Vedra Beach condominium in The Fountains off Florida A1A. Another neighbor, Evan Susman, spotted a pistol in his pocket and took it from him.

Susman gave the pistol to Hagan and helped Atkins inside. Hagan then returned to his home with his wife.

"We'd just sat down to watch 'The Big Bang Theory' when we heard a commotion," Hagan said.

When he entered Atkins' condo, Hagan said there was ammunition everywhere.

"I walked in and I said, 'What's going on here?' " Hagan said. "He said, 'I have no reason to live.' "

Hagan offered to call one of the man's sons. Atkins replied it was none of his business.

"I look around and found a 9mm on the couch," Hagan said. "He sees me pick up the gun."

Hagan told Atkins he was worried about his and his wife's safety because they lived with only a wall separating them.

The man then pulled out a third pistol, Hagan said.

"I set the 9mm back down," Hagan said. "Then he said, 'You're not taking my gun.' "

Atkins then put the revolver to the side of his head, flinched and said, "Boom!" Hagan said.

Hagan left and called 911 about 8:30 p.m. Three deputies responded and approached the door with shields up for protection.

"I heard the officers say, 'Gun! Gun!' " Hagan said.

Susman said he saw a rifle stick out the front door.

Garry Smits, a Times-Union reporter who lives in the neighborhood, said there was a series of shots.

"I heard about 10 or 12 shots and then about 10 or 12 more."

Sheriff's spokesman Chuck Mulligan said the man fired at the deputies and they fired back. Two hours later they sent a robot in and found Atkins dead with a gunshot wound to the head. A preliminary autopsy ruled it was not self-inflicted.

Times-Union writer Garry Smits contributed to this report.

clifford.davis@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4207