Yellowstone County Sheriff’s Deputy Clay Hackbarth felt uneasy as he approached a Lockwood trailer house to check on a report that a man on felony probation had been drinking alcohol.

It was shortly before 10 p.m. on Jan. 14. Before Hackbarth reached the front door, he paused to call the dispatcher for a radio check.

“In eight years, I’ve never done that,” Hackbarth told a coroner’s inquest jury Monday. “I just knew something bad was going to happen. I had a gut feeling.”

A few minutes later, Hackbarth exchanged gunfire with Edward Ronald Stump in the small living room of the trailer on Canary Avenue. Stump pulled a pistol when Hackbarth told him he was under arrest, and the men stood about six feet apart as about 17 gunshots from both weapons were fired in rapid succession.

When it was over, Stump lay critically wounded on the floor. He died before midnight in a St. Vincent Healthcare emergency room.

After hearing details of the fatal encounter during the daylong inquest, a six-member jury took 15 minutes to unanimously decide that Hackbarth was justified in the killing. Several jurors hugged Hackbarth and thanked him as they left the courtroom.

A coroner’s inquest is required under state law whenever law enforcement is involved in a death. A six-member jury provides an advisory verdict on whether the death was a justified use of deadly force.

The jury Monday heard testimony from eight witnesses, including Stump’s girlfriend, Kinsey Miner, and Miner’s mother, Michelle Miner. Both women, and several children, were in the home at the time of the shooting.

Kinsey Miner said Stump had taken from her a .40-caliber Glock handgun that she had taken from a family member. She also told jurors that before the shooting, Stump said he would shoot officers rather than return to prison.

Stump was on probation for a 2010 conviction for felony assault with a weapon in Cascade County.

He also had a 2007 conviction for the same crime, and he was required to be registered as a violent offender.

On the night of the shooting, Michelle Miner had called 911 to report that Stump was drinking alcohol in violation of his probation. Hackbarth was the closest deputy, and he took the call alone because the department was short-staffed that night.

After finishing his radio check, Hackbarth said, he knocked on the door. A woman answered and pointed down a narrow hallway.

Hackbarth yelled for Stump, then moved toward the open area of the small living room in case Stump started to fight.

When Stump appeared, Hackbarth said he explained he was there to check if he’d been drinking. They exchanged a few words before Stump said he needed to grab his shoes and disappeared back down the hallway.

When Stump returned without his shoes, Hackbarth said, his internal “alarm bells” went off. Stump was standing at the end of the hallway, turned slightly and with his left hand where the deputy could not see it.

When Stump refused to provide a breath sample, Hackbarth told the man he was under arrest and started to pull out his Taser.

Stump pulled out a pistol and fired.

“I hear, feel the bullet go past my face on the right side,” Hackbarth told the jury. “I can just feel it.”

Hackbarth fired his Taser, but the shot missed the mark. He reached for his .45-caliber duty pistol and began firing. Hackbarth said he isn’t sure if Stump had fired once or twice before he started shooting back.

For several seconds, the men fired at each other. Hackbarth emptied his Glock pistol, firing all 13 rounds as he crouched and took two side steps.

Stump fired about seven times, missing the deputy each time.

Hackbarth said his training saved his life.

“If I wouldn’t have moved, he would have got me,” he said. “I probably wouldn’t be here.”

Dr. Walter Kemp, a forensic pathologist who conducted the autopsy on Stump, said the man suffered eight bullet wounds, including two wounds that could have been from the same bullet.

One bullet hit Stump in the chest, while most of other the wounds were to his hand, arms and legs. Stump died of blood loss, Kemp said.

After calling all the witnesses, Deputy County Attorney Ed Zink encouraged the jury to find Hackbarth’s actions justified.

“And if you feel up to it when this is all said and done, go up and shake his hand,” Zink said.