Jim Schoettler

A 17-year-old boy was killed by Jacksonville police officers early Saturday after police said he used a fake gun to hold up a Westside convenience store.

It was the fourth police-involved shooting on the First Coast since the start of the year, and the second that ended in a fatality.

Two officers were conducting a stakeout at the Kangaroo convenience store on Old Middleburg Road at Fouraker Road about 2:50 a.m. when they saw the teen identified as Craig Ruise enter a side door. The store is one of two Westside stores that have been held up nine times since Nov. 12, according to Jacksonville Sheriff's Office Chief Tom Hackney.

SearchJacksonville homicides

The two officers watched through the store window as the teen pointed a gun at two clerks in the store, Hackney said, and the clerk gave him cash as the fake gun - later determined to be spray-painted black - was pointed at them.

The teen then ran out of the front door of the store where he was confronted by the two police officers. Hackney said the officers drew their weapons and ordered the teen to halt and surrender.

"That subject failed to comply. He was still armed with the gun in his hand as well as the money from the robbery," Hackney said. "After refusing the orders to comply, the officers fired at the suspect. The suspect was hit. Jacksonville Fire and Rescue was called and they announced the suspect was dead at the scene."

Hackney said the officers fired a combined volley of seven to eight bullets at Ruise with most hitting him in the torso. Ruise was still holding the fake gun when he hit the ground. Two slugs from the guns fired by the police hit a nearby plastic fence, Hackney said.

Officer Mark E. Campanaro is a 10-year veteran of the department, while William H. Irvin has been with the department for five years. Hackney said both are on administrative leave, as is Sheriff's Office procedure following any police-involved shooting.

Hackney said Ruise was holding a replica of a Colt 1911. He said there was no way of telling that the gun was a fake as officers confronted him.

"It was a clear plastic gun that had been painted black," Hackney said at a news conference Saturday afternoon. "It did have a red plastic tip that was partially visible. But this is a very distinct-looking gun and with a little black spray paint, it looked like the real thing."

Hackney said police believe that Ruise is responsible for the string of holdups over the past two months. But he acknowledged "we're still looking into that."

Hackney said each of the holdups over the past two months involved a black handgun and an African-American male of short stature. The robber was wearing a mask over his face.

The armed robberies occurred on Nov. 12, 25, 29 and Dec. 17 at the Kangaroo. There were robberies at another convenience store on Normandy Boulevard near Blair Road on Nov. 20, Dec. 4, Jan. 2 and 9.

While Ruise was seen entering the store on foot, Hackney said when he left the store he was heading toward what Hackney called a "family member's vehicle" that was parked a short distance away on Fouraker. Hackney said police are scouring the car for any possible evidence that may link Ruise to any other crimes.

Of the four police-involved shootings this year, three involved the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. The suspects in the two previous instances were wounded.

Related: Loaded gun found with suspect shot by Jacksonville police

Related: Jacksonville police shoot man in undercover drug bust

St. Johns County deputies killed a disgruntled man who shot at them Thursday night at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach.

No officers or bystanders were reported to have been injured in any of the area police-involved shootings.

In 2011, Jacksonville police were involved in eight shootings, four of which were fatal.

Times-Union writer Kate Howard contributed to this report.

jim.schoettler@jacksonville.com,(904) 359-4098

drew.dixon@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4385