UPDATED at 10:40 a.m. Thursday to clarify that the officer's pant leg was not hit by a bullet.

ST. LOUIS • St. Louis police shot and killed a man Tuesday after spotting him with a handgun in front of a supermarket.

The man was identified Wednesday as Deandra Pye, 39, of the 5300 block of Beacon Avenue.

Three officers with the Rapid Deployment Unit were patrolling the Walnut Park East neighborhood about 9:45 p.m. when they saw Pye standing in front of Northway Market at West Florissant and Thrush avenues, police said.

He was backing away from the door of the store and pointing a black, semiautomatic handgun at the door, police say. Police knew the business was open and that employees, and possibly customers, were inside. The officers thought they were interrupting a robbery or assault, police say.

The officers got out of their cars and ordered him to stop and surrender, police say. He turned toward the officers with the gun in his hand. That's when officers fired several shots at Pye, said Capt. Michael Sack.

A chase ensued, and the officers shot at Pye again when he pointed his gun at them.

The pursuit ended in a nearby vacant lot when Pye fell to the ground. Police approached him, and Pye lifted his hand and fired one shot at the officers, police say.

The officers again fired, killing Pye.

In all, Sack said, the officers fired nearly 60 shots, while Pye fired once.

Initially, police on Tuesday night were saying the shot fired by Pye had hit the pant leg of one of the officers. But after examining the pants, police found no bullet hole. The officer felt the bullet pass and jumped, but no bullet hit his pant leg, said Schron Jackson, a police department spokeswoman.

Rapid Deployment Units are composed of uniformed officers who are not tied to radio assignments, but rather patrol hotspots in neighborhoods that have seen a number of robberies and aggravated assaults.

The St. Louis Police Department isn't releasing the names of the officers who fired the shots.

The officers are a man, 25, who has been with the police force 3½ years; a woman, 27, who has been with the department four years; and a woman, 31, who has been with the department six years.

As is department policy, the officers are on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.