MONTEREY PARK >> The city paid $875,000 to the family of a man whose slaying by police in January 2012 outside a Carl’s Jr. was captured on video and posted to YouTube, according to court documents.

Steven Rodriguez, 22, was shot and killed after he broke several windows with a lead pipe bender and approached armed officers with the tool. Officers were unable to subdue him with a Taser and resorted to deadly force.

A lawsuit filed by Rodriguez’s family alleged that Monterey Park officers Peter Palomino and Everado Romo were not properly trained, violated the dead man’s rights and failed to provide medical attention after the shooting.

Attorney Sarah Garvey said Rodriguez’s family filed the civil case in October 2012 to get justice.

“It wasn’t about money for them,” she said. “It was about trying to get some type of accountability for what happened so that it doesn’t happen again … so that police will try to take other means to try to control these situations so that they don’t end in death.”

The YouTube video, which has been viewed about 1.7 million times, showed that the officers tasered Rodriguez, but he continued to move. When the East Los Angeles College student held up his tool, the officers each fired five bullets.

Police Chief Jim Smith said the pipe bender was initially reported as an axe. Both Palomino and Romo are both still employed by the city. They were put on administrative leave for two weeks after Rodriguez’s death.

“The Sheriff’s Department and District Attorney’s offices investigated this incident thoroughly and found that both officers had legal justification in their use of deadly force, and our internal investigation found that the use of force was within policy,” Smith said in an email.

Attorney Darrell York said the defendants — Monterey Park, its police and fire chiefs, the police department and the two officers — never admitted guilt. But he said he’s satisfied with the settlement.

Monterey Park Deputy City Attorney Karl Berger said Monterey Park’s insurance pool, the Independent Cities Risk Management Authority, decided to settle the case. He declined to comment further.

The seven bullets that penetrated Rodriguez caused his death, according to an autopsy report. There were no signs of natural disease.

York said Rodriguez didn’t have a background of mental illness but said Rodriguez’s actions at Carl’s Jr. were uncharacteristic.

Both officers initially used verbal commands and less deadly means to subdue Rodriguez, Smith said.

“They used the Taser and were preparing to use it again when Mr. Rodriguez turned and was going to strike one of the officers with the metal pipe bender, which resulted in the use of deadly force to stop his attack on an officer,” Smith said.

According to the YouTube video, Rodriguez did raise the pipe bender, but he did not retract it as though he was going to swing.

The family blames officer bias. They refer people to REMYX.net to learn more about Steve Rodriguez, a man whom they said often bought burgers for the homeless. In a statement provided to this newspaper, the family said the dead man meant a lot to many.

“It’s still very difficult for us to cope with this tragedy, and we will never be able to fill the void that has been left in our lives. But we hope that good things could come from this whole ordeal, and we can find a way to help others because we know that’s what Steve would want.”

York said officers are trained to fire two rounds and evaluate.

“Whether the first two rounds are justified or not is a question that still remains, but clearly it was our position that the shots that were fired after the first two shots were not (justified),” he said.

Smith maintained that his officers followed protocol and said his staff has been trained to deal with mentally ill individuals. Yet no amount of training can control a suspect’s actions or decisions, he said.

There was no indication that Rodriguez was mentally ill.

“Law enforcement must first deal with any threats to the public and then once the threat is dealt with, law enforcement can seek to assist the individual with medical care,” he said. “In this case, for example, the officers were forced to deal with a deadly threat and Mr. Rodriguez never gave the officers a chance to defuse the situation.”