One burglary suspect is dead and another is in jail following two break-ins in northern Baltimore County Tuesday and a subsequent fatal three-car collision on Dulaney Valley Road in Cockeysville, county police said Wednesday.

Twenty-one-year-old Aaron Nathaniel McCoy Jr., of the 2600 block of W. Lafayette Ave. in Baltimore, was pronounced dead at Maryland Shock Trauma Center following an accident he triggered while fleeing police.

Advertisement

Jenard David Toliver, 21, of the 2100 block of Baker St. in Baltimore, has been charged with two counts of first-degree burglary and one count of grand theft auto. He is being held at the Baltimore County Detention Center on $500,000 bail.

McCoy and Toliver are accused of committing a string of residential burglaries in northern Baltimore County since Friday, police said. Toliver allegedly committed two burglaries and McCoy allegedly committed seven. The two are accused of being involved in two burglaries minutes before the crash.

Advertisement

Toliver was a passenger in the stolen gray 2006 Honda Accord that McCoy used to evade police. Toliver bailed out of the car near Merrymans Mill Road at 3:04 p.m., five minutes before the accident. Police apprehended him shortly afterward.

McCoy was the driver of the Accord, which police said had been stolen on Jan. 18 in Howard County. The accident occurred near Ivy Church Road.

On Monday, police said McCoy burglarized a home in the 15000 block of Tanyard Road in Sparks, where a security monitor was stolen.

On Tuesday around 2:40 p.m., a homeowner in the 3200 block of Vance Road in Monkton called police after returning home and seeing the Accord in the driveway and one of the suspects walking out of his house. Two iPods were stolen from the house. No one was inside at the time of the burglary. The victim recorded a partial license plate number as the suspects' drove off.

After the Vance Road burglary and before the crash, police responded to a burglary in the 14000 block of Jarrettsville Pike. Police said McCoy and Toliver ransacked the home and stole a 46-inch television, a MacBook laptop, a Xbox and other items. No one was home during that burglary.

The stolen items from the burglaries on Monday and Tuesday were found in the Accord at the crash scene.

Police said McCoy is a suspect in four burglaries between noon and 6 p.m. Friday at the 17000 block of Gerting Road, the 16000 block of Gerting Road, the 1500 block of Magers Landing Road and the 3000 block of Shepperd Road. Those burglaries remain investigation.

After the victim called police in the Friday burglary on Vance Road, police saw a vehicle matching the stolen Honda's description traveling at a high rate of speed south on the Jarrettsville Pike, which becomes Dulaney Valley Road.

Advertisement

An officer followed the Accord and attempted to pull over the driver. The driver did not pull over. Police aviation crews began following the car from above, and patrol officers withdrew, police said.

The driver of the Honda accelerated and continued south. The driver attempted to swerve around a blue Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo shortly after 3 p.m. The Honda crossed the center yellow line and struck the left rear corner of the Jeep. The Honda and the Jeep then collided with a white, GMC 2500 utility truck traveling north. The Honda then crashed into a telephone pole.

Three people who were riding in the GMC truck and the Jeep suffered minor injuries and were transported to Sinai Hospital's trauma division.

An earlier version of this story incorrectly spelled Jenard David Toliver's last name because of incorrect information from police. The Sun regrets the error.

ywenger@baltsun.com