More

A Portland police sergeant and an officer early Wednesday fatally shot a 21-year-old man who had called 9-1-1 saying he had committed a robbery at knifepoint and threatened to jump off the top of a downtown parking garage.

Police checked two downtown parking garages as an emergency dispatcher stayed on the phone, talking to the man. When the dispatcher asked if he had a gun, he said "possibly.'' The dispatcher notified officers trying to locate the man that the caller was making "suicide by cop'' statements, police said.

An officer and sergeant drove to the rooftop level of a nine-story SmartPark garage at Southwest Fourth Avenue and Morrison Street. About 3:35 a.m., they spotted the man, who had climbed onto the top of an elevator shaft on the southwest corner of the garage.

Time line

June 30, 2011:

mistakenly fired four live rounds at William Monroe from a less-lethal shotgun, striking him in the hip with five buckshot pellets.

June 8, 2011:

to see if Portland police have used excessive force, particularly against people with mental illness, following a spike in police shootings the past 18 months.

Jan. 2, 2011:

when they say the homeless man inside an abandoned Southeast Portland car wash walked toward them holding a knife with an 8-inch blade. Higginbotham, 67, was struck 10 times and died from wounds to the chest and abdomen.

May 12, 2010:

, 25, who died in his car after he shot and wounded Officer Christopher Burley during a traffic stop near Lloyd Center.

March 22, 2010:

four times as he emerged from a restroom at Washington Park's Hoyt Arboretum with blood on his face and advanced toward the officer with a razor-type blade.

Jan. 29, 2010:

, 25, in the back and kills him in the parking lot of the Sandy Terrace Apartments in Northeast Portland.

He reportedly told a dispatcher that police had found him but he wasn't going to go with them, police said.

At 3:47 a.m, the officers called for Project Respond crisis workers and, four minutes later, police asked for members of the bureau's Crisis Negotiation Team to respond and help talk the man down.

As police waited for them and additional officers to arrive, an officer started talking with the man.

About 4:01 a.m., an officer and sergeant fired multiple shots at the 21-year-old when he reached into his pocket and pointed what looked like a gun at them, police said. The man dropped out of sight below a ledge of the elevator shaft.

Officers from the Special Emergency Reaction Team, a tactical unit of officers, were called to approach the man because police on the roof did not know if he was wounded or simply hiding behind the wall "lying in wait," Sgt. Pete Simpson said.

The tactical unit moved in, using a fire ladder to reach the top of the elevated elevator shaft, and found the man slumped in the northwest corner of the raised elevator shaft. He was dead. A black handgun that police later determined was a replica firearm was found beside him.

The man shot has been identified as Brad Lee Morgan, of Portland. He had a prior burglary conviction and had threatened suicide in the past during a domestic and child custody dispute, according to court records.

Earlier this month, Morgan had pleaded guilty to first-degree burglary and sentenced to 36 months of probation. On Jan. 17, he was booked into the Justice Center jail and released, accused of tampering with a witness. He was accused of preventing the mother of his child from calling 9-1-1 on Dec. 16, court records show. She had obtained a restraining order against him.

During today's investigation, police recovered a bullet from an office on the 14th floor of a nearby building at 888 Southwest Fifth Avenue, and another that a pedestrian found in a crosswalk at Southwest Fifth Avenue and Yamhill.

Police did not say how many shots the officer and sergeant fired.

Mayor Sam Adams, who serves as police commissioner, Chief Mike Reese and his two lieutenants, Assistant Chiefs Larry O'Dea and Eric Hendricks all responded to the early morning scene – the first fatal officer-involved shooting since Jan. 2, 2011. It comes as the bureau is under federal investigation for its use of force, particularly involving people with mental illness.

"As the Police Bureau does with any investigation" Adams said, in a statement, "we will look for opportunities to learn from this incident."

As office workers and shoppers went about their business in downtown later Wednesday morning, Portland firefighters assisted police in removing the deceased's body about 10:15 a.m. The man was seen wearing a black sweatshirt, jeans and work shoes.

Portland firefighters carried the man down a ladder from the top of the elevator shaft onto the garage rooftop, where deputy medical examiners were waiting. An autopsy is scheduled for Thursday.

The sergeant involved is a 15-year bureau veteran, and the officer joined the Portland Police Bureau nine years ago. Both were working Central Precinct night shift. They're on paid administrative leave, standard policy as the investigation progresses.

Portland homicide detectives are continuing to investigate and the case will be presented to a grand jury for review.

The shooting marked the first officer-involved shooting since Portland Office Dane Reister mistakenly loaded his bean-bag shotgun with lethal rounds and seriously wounded William Kyle Monroe in Southwest Portland on June 30. Reister - the first officer to be indicted for his on-duty use of force - has pleaded not guilty to third-degree and fourth-degree assault and negligent wounding in that shooting.

The last fatal officer-involved shooting occurred Jan. 2, 2011 in Southeast Portland. Thomas Higginbotham, 67, was shot by Portland police when he advanced on two officers while holding a knife. Officers Jason Lile and Larry Wingfield responded to the former Lucky Car Wash near Southeast 82nd Avenue and Powell Boulevard on reports that a security guard had been threatened. Higginbotham walked out of an inner room at the vacant carwash holding a knife. One of the officers fired a Taser, then both officers fired their weapons after Higginbotham continued to approach. A grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing.

The U.S. Department of Justice is currently investigating whether Portland police use of force is excessive, particularly involving people suffering from mental illness.

--

Statement from Brad Lee Morgan's family:

