Police investigate fatal shooting on Hemlock St. in Brooklyn on Thursday. (Anthony DelMundo/for New York Daily News)

An aspiring Queens rapper went on a crime spree that ended when he opened fire on an off-duty NYPD lieutenant — and the cop shot him dead early Thursday, police said.

Christopher Kissane, 22, was felled on a Brooklyn street by a shot fired from 76 feet away that hit him beneath the right eye, police said.

Advertisement

Kissane died later at Brookdale Hospital, leaving his neighbors on 68th Road in Middle Village to wonder what went wrong.

"He was going to release an album," said a 15-year-old who declined to give her name. "He's an amazing rapper."

Advertisement

The NYPD did not identify the 41-year-old lieutenant who fired the fatal shot. He was not injured in the deadly incident, which remains under investigation.

The drama began at 2:45 a.m. when Kissane, dressed in a black hoodie and wearing a red bandana over the lower half of his face, tried to rob a 38-year-old woman at gunpoint on Myrtle Ave. in Ridgewood, Queens, cops said. She escaped.

Ten minutes later, Kissane tried again, this time targeting a 56-year-old woman who had stopped her car at a traffic light. When she saw him approach with gun drawn, she hit the gas and drove off, but not before Kissane fired a shot that hit the back of her vehicle, police said.

On his third try, Kissane succeeded in carjacking a man at gunpoint on 80th St. in Ridgewood and stealing his 2001 Chrysler minivan. The victim later told cops Kissane circled the block several times as if lost before heading off.

At 4:10 a.m., the lieutenant was driving to work when he spotted a burgundy minivan marooned on the traffic divider north of Cypress Hills St. and Jamaica Ave. in Brooklyn, police said.

Drawing closer, the officer saw a man wearing a ski mask and a red bandana walking away from the stranded van and began to follow him, police said.

As Kissane walked along on Jamaica Ave., the lieutenant called for backup and two officers from the 75th Precinct quickly appeared.

The arriving cops worked with hero Officer Peter Figoski, who was killed last month while responding to a robbery, sources said.

Advertisement

When Kissane realized he was being followed, he started running toward Hemlock St. and the officers quickly caught up to him — and told him to stop, police said.

"Raise your hands!" the officers shouted, witnesses said.

Instead, Kissane fired, police said. The lieutenant shot him before the suspect could fire a second round, cops said.

"I heard the cop say, 'Put the gun down!'" said Maria Rodriguez, 59, who lives across the street from the scene of the shooting. "I didn't hear him (the suspect) at all."

Then, she said, "I heard two shots."

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"Me and my son went to the window after we heard the shots and we saw somebody pointing the gun — the police officer, I believe," she said. "He was wearing dark clothes."

Advertisement

Cops say Kissane was armed with an unregistered .22-caliber revolver — and that four bullets were still in the gun. A bag containing 15 additional rounds was recovered at the scene.

The incident was the third police-involved shooting in less than two months in Brooklyn's tough 75th Precinct, which covers parts of Cypress Hills and East New York. The lieutenant is not assigned to the precinct.

Figoski was killed Dec. 12.

On Jan. 12, police shot and killed Duane Browne behind his East New York home. It was discovered later that he was packing heat to defend his half-brother, a suspected drug dealer who was being robbed at gunpoint.

With Rocco Parascandola

jdoyle@nydailynews.com