Keshia Nix remembers the conversation she had with her brother while shopping at Walmart.

But it’s that look O’Patrick Humphrey gave her as he said good bye on that shopping trip that she remembers most. Thursday will mark the one-year anniversary of her brother’s death.

Humphrey, 33, died in a police-involved shooting with Headland Police in the front yard of his mother’s home on Hollon Street in Headland on Jan. 31, 2012.

Nix said the family has started a nonprofit organization called OHF or the O’Patrick Humphrey Foundation, which she hopes will help raise awareness about mental illness. She said the family has planned a candle light vigil to remember Humphrey’s life for 5:30 p.m. in the front yard of the Hollon Street home in Headland on Thursday.

“Just because time has passed doesn’t mean the family isn’t still hurting,” Nix said. “It’s so the community doesn’t forget. So basically he’s not just another dead black man.”

Court records show Circuit Court Judge Michael Conaway dismissed the wrongful death lawsuit filed by Humphrey’s family in Henry County Circuit Court on Monday.

Conaway dismissed the claim against Headland Police officers Tony Franks and Tony Smith, Police Chief Mark Jones, the police department and the City of Headland, which was brought by the O’Patrick Humphrey family.

Attorney Lance Swanner, with Jacoby and Meyers law firm who represent the family, said the family plans to refile the wrongful death lawsuit.

Court records show the judge granted a request to dismiss because a co-administrator was not added as a plaintiff on the lawsuit.

“We’re going to file like the judge wants it to be filed with both plaintiffs on it,” Swanner said. “These cases are extremely difficult, and we’re just trying to get answers for the family.”

Swanner said the lawsuit filed listed Humphrey’s father, Robert Lowe, as the plaintiff, but apparently, according to the court Humphrey’s mother was also required to be listed as a plaintiff on the lawsuit.

Swanner said the court’s ruling this week came after a hearing in Abbeville last week. He said they’re hoping to eventually find out about the review of the shooting completed by agents with the Alabama Bureau of Investigation.

“At the end of the day you’ve got an unarmed man who was shot and killed. There’s been no review of the investigation by anyone but police officers,” Swanner said. “There’s not been a civilian review.”

A Henry County grand jury reviewed the circumstances surrounding the shooting last year, and according to District Attorney Doug Valeska no criminal charges were returned. Valeska called the shooting justifiable when interviewed by the Eagle last year.

Relatives told authorities Humphrey suffered from schizophrenia, but had been off his medication because it made him sick. When paramedics responded to the home they were attacked by Humphrey, which led to an altercation with Headland police as officers arrived.

Valeska also said the ABI investigation revealed Humphrey was armed at the time of the altercation with police. He said Humphrey was armed with what appeared to be a small black eye bolt in the shape of a T.

Valeska said the officer fired his gun one time, striking Humphrey in the lower abdomen. Humphrey died later that day from his injuries.

A similar wrongful death lawsuit filed in federal court was also dismissed last year.