Police and medical personnel respond to the scene of a shooting at the Middletown court building Wednesday. (Steve Borland/AP)

An armed man with a grudge against an

Orange County mayor was gunned down in the Middletown city courthouse Wednesday after exchanging gunfire with court officers, police said.

One court officer was wounded in the shooting, said Police Chief Ramon Bethencourt.

Advertisement

Witnesses said the gunman, Timothy Mulqueen, 43, was wearing a dark hoodie and a scarf over his face when he pulled up to City Hall

in the Hudson Valley town on a dirt bike about 9 a.m. and circled the area several times.

Mulqueen parked the bike, snatched a 12-gauge shotgun out of a case and then sprinted up the steps of City Hall with the weapon, police said.

Advertisement

He entered a vestibule leading to Middletown City Court, walked pas

t the empty office of Mayor Joseph DeStefano and fired a single blast at two court officers, hitting one in the arm, the chief said.

The officers returned fire,

striking Mulqueen, Bethencourt said. He was pronounced dead at Orange Regional Medical Center a short time later, authorities said.

The injured officer suffered a graze wound and was also taken to Orange Regional.

"The court officers today not only acted appropriately, they acted heroically," said State Court spokesman David Bookstaver. "If this gunman had gotten pas

t these officers

, there would have been a bloodbath."

Mulqueen was armed with a Remington 680 shotgun and

more than 40 rounds of ammunition, said Bookstaver.

The Orange County

district

attorney is still investigating the motive for the shooting, but neighbors and city officials describe the gunman as a highly unstable loner who was arrested over the summer when he showed up at the mayor's home with a machete, a stick with nails and a razor.

In August, Mulqueen banged violently on DeStefano's door dressed in camouflage pants and a black shirt, according to the mayor's 23-year-old daughter.

"This person then got agitated after I told him my father was not home. This person started to make violent hand gestures and he began to yell at me," Nicole DeStefano said

Wednesday. "The way this person was behaving made me fear for my safety.

Advertisement

Mulqueen was charged with menacing and possession of a weapon, but pleaded down to a harassment charge on Feb. 1 and paid a $129 fine.

In 2000, Mulqueen was arrested for refusing to make court-ordered repairs on one of the three properties he owned in town, the mayor said.

Witnesses around City Hall

Wednesday described hearing multiple shots and seeing workers ducking for cover under their desks.

One witness told NBC New York, "I hear a 'boom, boom, boom' ... I saw a bunch of people tripping over each other to get out."

Dawn Bulson, who was in a courtroom, said everyone in the room sprinted toward the exits in panic after hearing several shots.

"I'm too young," she told the

Middletown Herald-Record. "I wasn't trying to get killed."

Advertisement

The City Hall area was locked down after the incident, and residents of neighboring buildings were temporarily evacuated.

Mulqueen's neighbors described him as an angry man.

"He looked a little unstable to me," said Mike Schluter, 41, who used

to serve the gunman at Whispers, a local bar. "He had that stare like he was looking at you, but he was looking through you. He was disgruntled about this and that. He never seemed like he followed through on anything. He was a complainer."

With News Wire Services