Those Who Knew 18-Year-Old In Disbelief About Fatal Shooting In Credit Union Parking Lot

People who knew Christopher Thompson are still trying to come to grips with his death Friday, shot by Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office deputies after authorities said the 18-year-old fired at them at a West Palm Beach credit union parking lot."He grew up with my twin sons," said Pat Rothenburg, a coach with the Palm Springs Athletic League. "He was in our house all of the time. Chris is just a great kid. I just can't fathom what happened."Sheriff's deputies responded to a 911 call Friday at the PBC Credit Union parking lot on Summit Blvd, where deputies said they spotted Thompson armed with a long rifle and a high-capacity magazine capable of holding up to 50 rounds of ammunition.Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said Thompson shot a patrol car three times and aimed his rifle at deputies before they fired, killing him.Palm Springs Leisure Services director Bill Golson said the athletic league was in shock. Thompson had played league sports in the village since he was 4 years old. He was a popular, well-liked teen who had never been in any trouble."It really has hit us very hard," said Golson. "He was a happy-go-lucky kid. You couldn't see this coming a mile away."A hand-printed sign on the family's home asked for privacy. Next-door neighbor Wayne Muller said Thompson lived with his mother and stepfather and was a well-mannered teen who always did what he was asked promptly and was close to his mother."They talked a lot," said Muller. "Whenever he had problems, he would talk to his mom about them."Muller said Thompson loved to cook and was planning to move to Alabama, where his grandparents reside, and go to culinary school.The three deputies involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation. The Sheriff's Office has not released their names.

People who knew Christopher Thompson are still trying to come to grips with his death Friday, shot by Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office deputies after authorities said the 18-year-old fired at them at a West Palm Beach credit union parking lot.

"He grew up with my twin sons," said Pat Rothenburg, a coach with the Palm Springs Athletic League. "He was in our house all of the time. Chris is just a great kid. I just can't fathom what happened."

Advertisement

Sheriff's deputies responded to a 911 call Friday at the PBC Credit Union parking lot on Summit Blvd, where deputies said they spotted Thompson armed with a long rifle and a high-capacity magazine capable of holding up to 50 rounds of ammunition.

Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said Thompson shot a patrol car three times and aimed his rifle at deputies before they fired, killing him.

Palm Springs Leisure Services director Bill Golson said the athletic league was in shock. Thompson had played league sports in the village since he was 4 years old. He was a popular, well-liked teen who had never been in any trouble.

"It really has hit us very hard," said Golson. "He was a happy-go-lucky kid. You couldn't see this coming a mile away."

A hand-printed sign on the family's home asked for privacy. Next-door neighbor Wayne Muller said Thompson lived with his mother and stepfather and was a well-mannered teen who always did what he was asked promptly and was close to his mother.

"They talked a lot," said Muller. "Whenever he had problems, he would talk to his mom about them."

Muller said Thompson loved to cook and was planning to move to Alabama, where his grandparents reside, and go to culinary school.

The three deputies involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation. The Sheriff's Office has not released their names.