STIRLING CITY — Two Butte County Sheriff's Deputies died within inches of the man suspected of killing them Thursday inside a mountain cabin in a Sierra-Nevada "company town" that dates to the old West.Killed were Butte County Sheriffs Lt. Larry Estes, 61, a 30-year department veteran and long-time top administrator, and deputy Bill Hunter, 26, a canine officer who recently was married.Investigators have identified the gunman as Richard Gerald Bracklow, 46. His father has said he suffered from manic-depression and preferred to be alone at his secluded cabin.News accounts called Bracklow a survivalist once obsessed with Y2K. The cabin is 100 yards from Inskip Inn in Stirling City, a town which was once owned and operated by the Stirling Match Company. With the big match factory now closed, the town is mostly trailers, old homes and dusty roads.Stirling City is east of Chico and about 125 miles northeast of Napa.Bob Duffey, owner of the inn, called authorities Thursday after Bracklow threatened him, said his son, David Duffey.Estes was working in the area as part of an internal affairs investigation, and volunteered to respond to the call with Hunter, authorities said.Mackenzie said Estes and Hunter confronted Bracklow and a gun battle ensued. Undersheriff Terry Korton said the deputies and their suspected killer, Richard G. Bracklow, were found in extremely close proximity, according to the Chico Enterprise-Record. In a briefing to the media Friday afternoon in Oroville, Sheriff Scott Mackenzie called Thursday's tragedy the worst incident in the history of the department.He explained in a calm but somber voice that Estes and Hunter entered the cabin shortly after 6 p.m. Thursday."A gun battle ensued and the deputies were killed," he said, according to the Enterprise-Record.Mackenzie said the number of rounds fired inside the cabin hadn't been determined, but stated "it was a lot."When additional officers arrived 45 minutes later, the two deputies didn't respond to dispatchers' calls, authorities said.Shortly after 10:30 p.m. Friday, deputies fired tear gas into the cabin and went inside, where they found the three bodies.Investigators believe all three men fired weapons and that most, if not all, of the gunfire took place inside the tiny, cluttered cabin.Authorities had not determined Friday if Bracklow was shot by the deputies or committed suicide. Bracklow's father, Paul E. Bracklow, 82, of Paradise, said Friday his son had no history of violence but was diagnosed two years ago with manic-depression and hadn't taken medication for a year.Estes was once assistant sheriff and held top positions over the years such as running the search and rescue squad and acting as spokesman for the department. In May 1997, deputy Randy Jennings was killed by a gunman after responding to a domestic dispute, the last time a Butte deputy was killed in the line of duty.(The Associated Press and online versions of the Chico Enterprise Record, Sacramento Bee and San Francisco Chronicle contributed to this report).