After Frank S. Caruso's SUV stalled on the side of the Eisenhower Expressway near Addison early this morning, he called his girlfriend to pick him up -- but before she arrived a state trooper pulled over and let him wait inside the squad car to keep him warm.



But as Caruso, 42, sat in the trooper's car, another car rear-ended the squad, killing Caruso and injuring the trooper, said State Police Trooper Maria Navarro.

Daniel C. Clark, 32, of Chicago was charged with two counts of aggravated driving under the influence after he allegedly rear-ended the squad, according to a spokesman for DuPage County State's Attorney Robert Berlin. Clark is expected to appear in bond court on Sunday morning.

Advertisement

"This is a tragic loss of life allegedly caused by a man who believed he was able to drive after he had been drinking," Berlin said. "People have got to learn that far too often drinking and driving can be a deadly combination."

The unfortunate chain of events has left Caruso's tight-knit family wondering how the accident could have occurred. Caruso recently moved from Oakbrook Terrace to Brookfield.



"We didn't believe it," said Angelo Calcagno, Caruso's brother-in-law. "On the way to the hospital, we couldn't talk, we couldn't say anything. We didn't want to believe it."



The incident began after Caruso's 2005 gray Nissan SUV became disabled in a minor accident before 1 a.m. and was partially blocking the left lane of eastbound traffic on Interstate 290 near Mill Road in Addison, Master Sgt. Bart Lamb said.



The trooper who arrived to the accident used his car and lights to block two lanes and they waited inside the trooper's car for a tow truck to arrive, officials said.



That's when a 2010 Chevrolet Impala driven by Clark rear-ended the squad car about 1:20 a.m., police said.



Caruso was taken to Elmhurst Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later. The trooper sustained a concussion and was taken to Loyola University Hospital, Lamb said.



Clark was taken to Alexian Brothers Medical Center, where he was treated and released.



Caruso's family was unable to get immediate information from police troopers on scene and Caruso's girlfriend called area hospitals and eventually discovered that he had been transported to Elmhurst.



But before she could arrive, Caruso was pronounced dead, Calcagno said.



The family has endured a string of emotional highs and lows in recent weeks. Caruso, who is the youngest of six siblings, became a grandfather for the first time about two months ago and quickly grew very attached to his infant grandson.



"He was glowing," Calcagno said. "He couldn't put him down."



From that high, there was heartache when Caruso's father passed away from cancer less than three weeks ago.



"We were celebrating one thing and grieving another," Calcagno said.



On Saturday, Calcagno said the family was trying to reconcile Caruso's unexpected death. He remembered Caruso as a handsome, easy-going brother-in-law.



"Frank was just an innocent bystander, waiting in a police car to stay warm," Calcagno said. "Wrong place, wrong time."

Advertisement

pnickeas@tribune.com

cdrhodes@tribune.com

