John Leacock

The man who was killed early Sunday by an off-duty police officer after brandishing a gun in a crowded nightclub parking lot has been identified as Nicholas Samuel Underwood of Jacksonville, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office.

Underwood, 24, of West Fifth Street, was shot after ignoring repeated commands by the officer, Michael D. Peterson, to drop his gun and get on the ground, Sheriff's Office Chief Tom Hackney said at a news conference.

The incident unfolded at Club Aqua at 11000 Beach Blvd. after a night of fights and threats inside the club, several of which required security officers' intervention, Hackney said.

After the club's 2 a.m. closing time, several hundred patrons were milling about in the parking lot. Peterson and another officer, who were in uniform working security, overheard comments in the crowd that a man said he was going to get a gun from his vehicle.

Peterson retrieved his department-issued AR-15 rifle from his vehicle. He confronted the man after two patrons pointed him out, Hackney said.

Despite Peterson's commands to stop, the man continued to walk toward the front of the club, with the gun raised in his hand. Peterson fired his weapon five times, striking Underwood in the "upper body" and killing him, Hackney said.

No one else was injured.

Hackney said Underwood was ejected from the club earlier in the evening. But Hackney said investigators did not yet know whether that was the impetus for Underwood going to get a gun.

Underwood had no police record in Jacksonville but did in Broward County, Hackney said. The nature of those charges was not immediately available.

The club is across from the Beach Boulevard Flea Market in a shopping strip mall. Some businesses in the strip mall were slightly damaged in the shooting, Hackney said.

Sunday's shooting was the first for Peterson, a 12-year veteran, Hackney said. Peterson was placed on administrative leave during the investigation, which Hackney said is standard practice in a police shooting.

Underwood's death is the fourth police shooting in 2012, the second that was a fatality, according to a Sheriff's Office spokeswoman.

The first shooting happened during a drug bust gone awry, and the other fatal shooting this year involved a 17-year-old holding a fake gun during a robbery. A suspect wanted on charges of felony domestic battery was also shot this year after he rammed his car into a cruiser, police said.

john.leacock@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4661

beth.cravey@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4109