LIHUE, KAUAI (HawaiiNewsNow) - Kauai Police and county officials have reached an out-of-court settlement with the family of a Koloa man who was killed by police in 2012.

Richard "Dickie" Louis was shot several times after 40 KPD and federal law enforcement officers converged on his home to serve an arrest warrant.

The 62-year-old mechanic was wanted for illegal logging and gun and drug charges but was unarmed.

"We believe there was a number of problems with the fugitive task force at the time, as well as the Kauai Police Department. There were also command issues," said attorney Myles Breiner, who represents the man's family.

The terms of the settlement were not disclosed and will require approval by the County Council. But already the case has prompted some changes at the KPD.

According to Breiner, KPD has since improved officers training on the use of deadly force and they have clearer policies on handling people who barricade themselves.

"For myself, I'm satisfied that we've attained some accountability, maybe not enough. But there was accountability at the end of the day," said Breiner.

According to the lawsuit filed by Louis' family, Louis was barricaded in his home and was unarmed.

KPD initially wanted to wait Louis out but after several hours of negotiation, KPD officer, Captain Henry Barriga, decided to place a squad inside of Louis' home, the suit said.

Shortly after that, KPD officer Chris Calio entered the home on his own accord and gave chase to Louis, who had gone up to his roof and was throwing bamboo poles at officers.

Calio shot Louis several times believing that he grabbed a metal object. But the lawsuit says that no weapon was ever recovered.

After a lengthy investigation, Calio was not disciplined and remains on the force.

Police Chief Darryl Perry, who was on suspension at the time, later testified that he probably would have handled the situation differently.

"It's a sad series of events. We believe that had Chief Perry been in charge, based upon his deposition, and had other senior officers been in charges, there would have been a different result," Breiner said.