Two women were gunned down to death Tuesday during a home dispute in Yuba City, which ultimately led to the death of the gunman after he failed to cooperate with demands to surrender, police said.Janis Lynn Williams, 58, and Kimberly Ann Yancey, 53, were both killed by Steven George Williams, 53, according to police. Williams was Janis Williams' brother-in-law.Police said Williams shot and killed the two women on the 600 block of B Street, and injured a third woman just after 4 p.m.Several blocks away, at Franklin and Pine Street, police said they shot and killed the male suspect, who was armed and failed to heed to police commands."That's surreal. It's just crazy," said Robert Neissner, who lives a few doors down. "You hope it doesn't happen in your neighborhood."Neissner said he watched a woman help another who appeared to suffer from a gunshot wound, out of the home."The middle-aged women had her arm around her, and was carrying her as she walked her out," Neissner said.Police said the surviving victim is being treated at Rideout Memorial Hospital. They said she is expected to survive."On Pine, all the way to the end, they kept telling the guy to stop," said Dawn Rose, who was standing outside and watched officers shoot the man. "He wouldn't stop. A cop got out of the car with a big old rifle and shot the guy three times. It's scary. It's officers shooting people around here. We have kids around here."Police said they do not know how the man knew the women, nor do they have a motive for the crime.

Two women were gunned down to death Tuesday during a home dispute in Yuba City, which ultimately led to the death of the gunman after he failed to cooperate with demands to surrender, police said.

Janis Lynn Williams, 58, and Kimberly Ann Yancey, 53, were both killed by Steven George Williams, 53, according to police. Williams was Janis Williams' brother-in-law.

Advertisement

Police said Williams shot and killed the two women on the 600 block of B Street, and injured a third woman just after 4 p.m.

Several blocks away, at Franklin and Pine Street, police said they shot and killed the male suspect, who was armed and failed to heed to police commands.

"That's surreal. It's just crazy," said Robert Neissner, who lives a few doors down. "You hope it doesn't happen in your neighborhood."

Neissner said he watched a woman help another who appeared to suffer from a gunshot wound, out of the home.

"The middle-aged women had her arm around her, and was carrying her as she walked her out," Neissner said.

Police said the surviving victim is being treated at Rideout Memorial Hospital. They said she is expected to survive.

"On Pine, all the way to the end, they kept telling the guy to stop," said Dawn Rose, who was standing outside and watched officers shoot the man. "He wouldn't stop. A cop got out of the car with a big old rifle and shot the guy three times. It's scary. It's officers shooting people around here. We have kids around here."

Police said they do not know how the man knew the women, nor do they have a motive for the crime.