A St. Petersburg Police officer has been cited for speeding in a crash that killed a man in a wheelchair.

St. Petersburg Police Department Traffic Homicide detectives completed their investigation and announced their findings Thursday.



According to their report, St. Petersburg Police officer Mehmedin Karic, 26, was cited for careless driving due to his speed of 61 mph in a 40 mph zone when he hit Harold Fleming, 45, around 4:20 a.m. on Feb. 19.

Fleming was hit at 38th Avenue North and 64th Street North, and was pronounced dead at 4:40 a.m. Karic was not injured.



Karic was cited Thursday morning. A court appearance has been scheduled for May 24 at 10:30 a.m.



The new released report stated the on-duty officer was driving a marked police cruiser when he collided with Fleming as "he was not operating his vehicle in a careful and prudent manner and failed to see the non-motorist Harold Fleming in front of him prior to the crash."



The investigation also revealed Fleming was impaired, with a blood alcohol reading of .136 and marijuana in his system, at the time of the deadly crash.



St. Petersburg Police Chief Chuck Harmon has launched an internal affairs investigation to determine if department policy and procedure were violated. Karic has been placed on paid administrative duty for the duration of the internal affairs investigation, according to the report.



"At the conclusion of this investigation, Chief Harmon will convene a Chain of Command Board to determine the appropriate discipline for the officer," the report read.



St. Pete Police officer strikes, kills man crossing street in wheelchair



Fleming was ejected from his wheelchair and propelled in a northeasterly direction, coming to rest along the north curb of 38th Avenue. Paramedics took Fleming to the hospital on the south side of 38th Avenue at 65th Street.

Investigators said in February that Karic never saw Fleming, who was dressed in dark clothing. Investigators also noted that the street light near that intersection was not working at the time.

Karic was not responding to an emergency call or driving in "emergency mode" when he hit Fleming, the original report stated.

