A 40-year-old man was shot and killed by police during a traffic stop Sunday night after authorities said he lunged toward a weapon that turned out to be a pellet gun.

Don Cambron, 40, was one of the passengers in a sport utility vehicle that was stopped around 10:30 p.m. near 63rd Avenue and Federal Boulevard, according to Sgt. Terrance O’Neill, public-information officer for the Adams County Sheriff’s Office.

O’Neill said a deputy was talking to another passenger, who was wanted on an outstanding warrant, when another deputy saw a black handgun inside the vehicle.

That deputy yelled, “Gun! Gun! Floorboard!” O’Neill said. The deputy on the other side of the vehicle saw Cambron lunge toward the rear floorboard, O’Neill said. The deputy fired, hitting Cambron an unknown number of times. He was later pronounced dead at Denver Health Medical Center.

But the passenger who had been pulled out of the vehicle, Tim Collins of Loveland, disputed authorities’ account.

Collins said when he heard an officer yell “Gun!” he turned to look at the vehicle and saw Cambron in the back seat with his hands in the air. He heard one gunshot before he was forced to the ground and a deputy put his foot on his head.

“Don didn’t move,” Collins said. “I could see both of his palms. There was no justification or provocation.”

Collins said the four people in the car had just left a birthday party when the female driver was stopped for making an illegal turn.

Officers ran the names of everyone in the car and discovered Collins had two misdemeanor warrants out of Idaho, Collins said.

He acknowledged there was a pellet gun on the floorboard of the backseat where Cambron was sitting but said his friend — the father of five — wouldn’t have reached for it.

“My buddy was smart,” Collins said. “He’s not going to reach for anything.”

Collins also said everyone in the vehicle was “100 percent sober.”

Afterward, he and the other two people who had been in the SUV were taken in to give statements to a detective. They were then released.

One of Cambron’s family members said Cambron had moved to the Adams County area from the Western Slope sometime in the past two weeks.

His record shows multiple driving violations and arrests for theft and forgery in Mesa County in the 1990s.

His 21-year-old daughter, Christina Lamb, said those interactions with police make it even more unlikely that Cambron would have tried to grab a weapon.

“There’s no way he would have lunged for a gun,” Lamb said. “He knows better.”

Police said they found a bag of tools, including bolt cutters, inside the vehicle along with the all-black pellet gun.

The Adams County Critical Incident Team is investigating the shooting, O’Neill said.

Sara Burnett: 303-954-1661 or sburnett@denverpost.com