



It looked like a scene out of a TV crime show. Local lawmen had a residence surrounded with firearms drawn. As they edged into the home they discovered a shot and injured victim. They frantically dragged him out and to an ambulance not knowing where the shooter might be.

It may have looked like a TV show but it was very real and close to home—in Whatley, Alabama—last Friday.

Family members and law enforcement officers are still trying to determine what made Cynthia Rush, 44, pull a handgun and shoot and critically injure her son, Thomas Bradley Baugh, 21, and then enter the bathroom where her husband, Larry Joe Rush, 47, was taking a bath and shoot him at least four times before he could escape, naked, from the house. Larry Rush is Baugh’s stepfather.

As lawmen searched the house, they found Cynthia Rush dead. She had apparently barricaded herself in the kitchen and cut herself numerous times with a kitchen knife.

Sheriff Ray Norris related the details. The E-911 dispatcher received a call around 1 p.m. Friday from Larry Rush who was talking on his cell phone from a shed near the house, which is on Princess Street in Whatley. It was for years the Eudell Coleman home and is alongside Highway 84. Shot in the bathtub

Rush told lawmen that he was taking a bath when he heard a shot. Then the bathroom door opened and his wife started shooting him in the bathtub. Her weapon was a .357 revolver. Rush was shot at least four times in the chest, the bullets exiting through his back.

Cynthia Rush apparently ran out of bullets and when she moved from the door, Larry Rush bolted from the tub and the house, stopping long enough to get his glasses and cell phone.

Lawmen from several departments converged on the house and surrounded it. Larry Rush was escorted away to a waiting ambulance.

Sheriff Norris said he had no idea what the lawmen were encountering and yelled for the shooter to come out.

It was quickly decided that they had to go in, knowing that Baugh was still inside and had apparently been shot. Sheriff credits training

Norris said, “Not too long ago, state Homeland Security agents came down and gave a free training course at the old Coffeeville High School that taught us just how to handle a situation like we had Friday. We put that training to work in Whatley and it worked.”

Norris said new Thomasville Police Chief Mitch Stuckey volunteered to lead a team into the house consisting of Conservation Officer Robbie Tillman and Deputies Bryan Smith, Joe Snell and T. J. Bohannon.

They were hampered by large stacks of books and magazines and furniture. They found Baugh, who had been shot in the back, and pulled him out of the house and resumed their search, finding Cynthia Rush dead in the kitchen. She had apparently tried to cut her throat and her wrist before stabbing herself in the chest with the knife.

Larry Rush and Baugh were taken first to Grove Hill Memorial Hospital and then airlifted to a Mobile hospital. Despite being shot four times, Rush has been released and is at home. May be paralyzed

Baugh remains hospitalized at the University of South Alabama Medical Center. Doctors are not sure if he will suffer any paralysis from his injury.

Norris said he and Rush have talked about what might have provoked Mrs. Rush. Norris said Rush said she and Baugh had words over something she wanted him to do and he told her he would do it later.

Norris said it sounded like nothing more than a common mother-son argument and certainly nothing to provoke the rampage that occurred.



