A triple shooting in West Palm Beach late Monday night left one person dead and sent two other men -- one of them a police officer -- to a hospital.West Palm Beach police said officers were called to a Citgo gas station near 45th Street and Haverhill Road, where someone called 911 about a man who had been shot in the face.Police later learned that the shooting happened outside the SpringBrook Commons Apartments, and the shooter was still in the parking lot."The suspect was shooting long before the officers got there and continued shooting once the officers got there," West Palm Beach police spokesman Allan Ortman said.Police said officers Rade Momirovich and Covelle Padgette returned fire, killing the suspect. He was later identified as 28-year-old Marcus Neloms III.Momirovich was shot in the shoulder. He was taken to St. Mary's Medical Center, where he was treated and released.Padgette wasn't injured."This will give a heads up to all the other officers here that you never know when it's going to happen to you," Ortman said.The man who was shot in the face was also taken to a hospital, but he's expected to survive.

A triple shooting in West Palm Beach late Monday night left one person dead and sent two other men -- one of them a police officer -- to a hospital.

West Palm Beach police said officers were called to a Citgo gas station near 45th Street and Haverhill Road, where someone called 911 about a man who had been shot in the face.

Advertisement

Police later learned that the shooting happened outside the SpringBrook Commons Apartments, and the shooter was still in the parking lot.

"The suspect was shooting long before the officers got there and continued shooting once the officers got there," West Palm Beach police spokesman Allan Ortman said.

Police said officers Rade Momirovich and Covelle Padgette returned fire, killing the suspect. He was later identified as 28-year-old Marcus Neloms III.

Momirovich was shot in the shoulder. He was taken to St. Mary's Medical Center, where he was treated and released.

Padgette wasn't injured.

"This will give a heads up to all the other officers here that you never know when it's going to happen to you," Ortman said.

The man who was shot in the face was also taken to a hospital, but he's expected to survive.