Source: LCPD

The Calcasieu Parish Coroner's Office reported Felton Watson's cause of death was mixed drug intoxication.

There was no evidence of injury or trauma.

Watson, 29, died March 10 at a local hospital.

The following is a Press Release from the Lake Charles Police Department:

On Tuesday, March 6th, 2012 at 3:14 PM, the Lake Charles Police Department responded to the 200 block of North Cherry Street in regards to a shooting and stabbing. Upon arrival Officers located three victims that sustained injuries. All three victims were transported to local hospitals for treatment of their injuries. One victim succumbed to the injuries he sustained, one victim was treated and released from the hospital, and one victim remains hospitalized in stable condition.

A black male suspect fled the scene on Cherry Street to the 2000 block of Clarinda Street where he carjacked another victim taking a 2006 GMC Envoy which was later recovered at the Walgreens at 12th Street and Highway 14. The carjacking victim was transported to a local hospital for injuries he sustained. This victim has been treated and released from the hospital.

During the course of this investigation, the LCPD located the suspect at the Howard Johnson Express motel at 825 Broad Street. The suspect was identified as Felton N. Watson, black male, 29-years-old, of Lake Charles, LA.

After making contact with the barricaded suspect at Howard Johnsons, he refused numerous requests by LCPD negotiators to come out of a hotel room and turn himself over to Police which resulted in a stand off lasting from 5:42 PM until 8:20 PM.

The Calcasieu Parish Sheriff's Office Special Response Team (SRT) traveled to the scene to assist the LCPD's SRT with their armored "Bearcat". Tear gas was deployed from the "Bearcat" which caused the suspect to come out and surrender to LCPD SRT Officers. LCPD and CPSO negotiators worked in concert during this incident.

The suspect was transported to the LCPD Detective Division for processing. When speaking with homicide investigators, the suspect began to exhibit signs of seizures and began convulsing. The suspect advised homicide investigators that he ingested large amounts of illegal narcotics during the nearly 3 hour standoff. Acadian Ambulance was immediately notified and transported Mr. Watson to a local hospital, where he is now in critical condition.

Deputy Chief T.J. Bell has contacted the Louisiana State Police and informed them about the suspect's seizures while in the LCPD's custody.

The homicide victim has been identified as Joshua Dominic Frank, 27 year old black male from Lake Charles, LA. Mr. Frank was transferred to a Lafayette hospital where he was pronounced dead.

Felton Watson is being charged with one count of 1st degree murder, three counts of attempted 1st degree murder, and one count of carjacking. Judge David Ritchie issued a 2.5 million dollar bond on Mr. Watson.

Sgt. Lecia McCullough is the lead investigator in these cases and is being assisted by Detectives Franklin Fondel and Colby Thompson.