WOODBRIDGE — A suspected shoplifter who was shot and killed by a police officer yesterday inside the Woodbridge Center shopping mall was identified today as a Paterson man who has a criminal record.

In a joint statement issued by Middlesex County Prosecutor Bruce Kaplan and Woodbridge Police Director Robert Hubner, the man was identified as Andres Garcia, 44, of Paterson, who was wanted by authorities since Sept. 15, 2011 for violating his parole on a robbery conviction.

Kaplan and Hubner also identified the police officer who fired the single fatal shot at Garcia as Woodbridge Patrolman Edward Barrett Jr., 32.

Garcia was armed with a knife and threatening to kill a 62-year-old woman inside the mall shortly after 5 p.m. yesterday when the patrolman — who was in uniform but off-duty at the time — fatally shot Garcia, the statement said.

Barrett was arriving at the mall for extra-duty work when he was alerted to a suspected shoplifting, the statement said. With help from three mall security guards, the off-duty patrolman "approached Garcia on suspicion of shoplifting at an upscale clothing store."

When Garcia fled, Barrett and the mall security guards "chased him to the entrance of Sears, where Garcia grabbed the 62-year-old woman by the hair, held a knife to her neck and repeatedly threatened to kill her," the statement said. "The woman's husband tried to hold onto his wife as Garcia dragged her into the store."

The county prosecutor said Barrett repeatedly warned Garcia to drop the knife before firing the single shot that struck Garcia in the head at 5:15 p.m.

The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene at 5:32 p.m., the prosecutor said, adding that the woman and her husband were not harmed.

Authorities have not released the names of the woman or her husband.

An autopsy conducted by the Middlesex County Medical Examiner's Office determined Garcia died from the gunshot wound, authorities said.

Barrett has been a member of the Woodbridge Police Department for eight years, and currently is assigned to the radio patrol division.

The mall incident remains under investigation by the county prosecutor's office, and the state Attorney General's Office was notified of the shooting yesterday in accordance with state guidelines, Kaplan said.

Authorities are asking anyone with information about the mall incident to contact the prosecutor's office at (732) 745-3300.

With about 220 stores and 1.5 million square feet of space, Woodbridge Center is the third-largest shopping mall in New Jersey, behind only Westfield Garden State Plaza in Paramus and Freehold Raceway Mall. The mall is located just off Route 1, in the shadows of the Garden State Parkway.

Related coverage:

• Shooting at Woodbridge Center mall: Alleged shoplifter shot, killed by police; customers run for cover

