Jim Schoettler

In an early March phone call with his mother, Jason Beardsley said he urged her to buy a gun for protection since she lived alone.

"She said, 'I've got my 100-pound Rottweiler. That's all the protection I need,' " Beardsley said. "She was always against guns."

So when Beardsley received a call at his New York home that his mother had been killed Saturday night after pointing a gun toward two Clay County deputies, he said he had plenty more questions than he still has answers. Those questions included why her death was described by police as "suicide-by-cop."

Beardsley, the first family member to speak for his mother, said she was unhappy over a recent domestic squabble with a boyfriend and was facing foreclosure on her home. But he said he doesn't believe those problems pushed her over the edge.

"She was the sweetest, kindest lady," Beardsley, 29, said. "I can't picture her ever doing anything like this."

Joann Beardsley, 49, of Jacksonville, died at Orange Park Medical Center after being shot about 6 a.m. in the parking lot of the Clay County Sheriff's Office substation off Blanding Boulevard. The case has been turned over to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

FDLE Spokesman Keith Koenig said Wednesday that details, including whether Beardsley's weapon was real, would not be released until the investigation is complete.

Sheriff Rick Beseler said he stands behind the actions of the involved deputies. He offered a reminder of last month's fatal shooting of Deputy David White during a drug raid.

"Our members know all too well that there are people in our community who will shoot and kill law enforcement officers," Beseler said. "We understand that the Beardsley family is grieving the loss of their loved one. While we regret that a life was lost, we also regret that our deputy was put in that situation."

Saturday's incident began when Beardsley pointed an apparent handgun at two deputies who'd returned to the substation in their patrol car at the end of a shift. Nine-year veteran Chris Ruby confronted Beardsley, who was yelling at him. She was shot by Ruby after refusing orders by him and Deputy J.D. Wilson to lower the weapon, Col. Craig Aldrich said.

No shots were fired at the deputies. It remains unclear how Beardsley ended up in the parking lot. Aldrich described the incident as "suicide-by-cop," in which a suicidal person deliberately acts in a threatening way to elicit a lethal response from police.

Beardsley posted on her Facebook page that night that she was going out drinking, including to one spot near the substation. She wrote that she wanted some company and "don't bother tomorrow, I won't need it." About four hours before the shooting, she posted, "I'd rather sleep in the parking lot then get a DUI."

Beardsley, who cleaned houses for a living, had no criminal record and her son can't believe she was a threat.

"If she did have a gun in her hand, I wish they would have tried to talk it out with her," he said. "I don't think they should have shot her."

Beardsley said if it turns out police acted appropriately, he'll always wonder what led his mother to confront them.

"I didn't expect to wake up one morning and her to be gone," he said. "I'm going to keep pushing to see what happened."

jim.schoettler@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4385