By: News On 6

The 911 tape from Tuesday's officer involved shooting near 36th and Riverside was released Friday.

Officer J.C. Comstock shot and killed Phillip Doll, who had broken into a 65-year-old woman's home and threatened to kill her.

03/20/2012 Related Story: Attacker Who Was Killed By Tulsa Police Was Wanted For Murder

Her grandson had been at the store, got home and saw the man inside and called for help. His dog's reaction tipped him off something was wrong.

Caller: "He started barking and freaking out. I ran back to the backdoor and I hollered at my grandma and I heard a guy say, 'don't do it'. There's somebody in there with her."

When a first degree burglary call goes out, a stranger in a home with the homeowner, it's a very high priority call and such was the case Tuesday night. There are many uncertainties and the risk of danger is high.

Caller: "What if they hurt her, my grandma?"

911 Operator: "Sir, there's a lot of officers on the way."

One of those officers was J.C. Comstock. He was back at the scene Friday with homicide detectives, walking them through what happened.

Police say the suspect was on top of the victim, who was recovering from back surgery. He refused to follow the officers' commands to show his hands and surrender and the victim was screaming for help.

"Officers are required to make split second decisions in situations that are tense, uncertain and rapidly evolving," said Tulsa attorney Scott Wood.

Officer Comstock shot and killed Phillip Doll, who detectives later learned was wanted for murdering his girlfriend days earlier.

03/20/2012 Related Story: Tulsa Police Still Investigating Homicide After Killing 'Person Of Interest'

Scott Wood says not only was the shooting legal, but had officer Comstock not acted to save the citizen's life, he would've been violating his oath of office.

"Officers are required to intervene to save the lives of citizens or other officers," Wood said.

Officer Comstock remains on routine leave until both the criminal and internal investigations are complete.