STOCKTON (CBS13) – Stockton Police have identified both the police officer and suspect shot during an officer-involved shooting on Wednesday night.

During a press conference Thursday morning, Stockton Police Chief Eric Jones identified the wounded officer as Keith Berry. The suspect, who was shot and killed by Berry's partner Tom Heslin, was identified as Chomrean Meas.

The shooting occurred at about 9:45 p.m. in the 1900 block of Colt Drive as the officers attempted to carry out a police check.

Berry underwent surgery overnight and is now listed in stable but guarded condition.

Meas was also shot and transported to a local hospital where he later died.

"Officers Berry and Heslin contacted several subjects who were out on the sidewalk. One of the subjects contacted, Chomrean Meas, was uncooperative with the officers and did not comply with the officers requests," Chief Jones said in a statement. "A struggle then ensued. Meas then had a handgun and he fired it at our officers. He struck Officer Berry in the lower abdominal region. Officer Heslin then returned fire to protect himself as well as citizens in the area."

Both Officer Berry and Heslin joined the Stockton Police Department in 2004.

Meas is not a documented gang member but does associate with gang members, Jones said.

Meas' younger sister denies he was in a gang. "He wasn't a gang associate, no," Malina Meas told CBS13 on Thursday. She also said he didn't own a gun, but CBS13 found an arrest report from last year where Meas was taken into custody for possession of a gun.

Chief Jones also said evidence found at Wednesday night's shooting does link to a fatal shooting on the same street two days earlier.

On Monday a few houses down, 42-year-old Stanley Jones was shot and killed. Jones' wife told CBS13 Wednesday evening that she believed the two shootings were connected.

"They didn't have any suspects. And I told them who I thought and how I felt and what I heard on the streets," Denice Jones said. "And that's why they went over there to find out, to see if it was. That's why I know."

Neighbors are terrified after the two fatal shootings three days apart.

"I don't even think there are words to explain the terror ... and sadness," Lori Sanders said. "Needless to say, there's been a lot of sleepless nights."

"Considering my cousin was just shot and almost killed a week ago and now this, we're considering moving from the area, absolutely," Brandi Tirando said.