Megna's accused accomplice, Michael Ginnetti, allegedly entered the bank on Lynn Fells Parkway in Saugus wearing a plastic mask, a grey hooded sweatshirt, dark gloves, and brandishing a silver semiautomatic handgun. Authorities say the suspects then ordered bank employees and customers to the ground, demanded that a bank employee fill two nylon bags with cash, and fled in a stolen car.

"These defendants clearly had no intention of being apprehended,'' John Verner, a Middlesex assistant district attorney, said during Megna's arraignment Monday morning.

MALDEN - Prosecutors say Gabriel Megna and two accomplices were prepared for battle when they allegedly robbed Saugusbank Friday, equipped with masks, body armor, and guns.

Advertisement

After police chased the suspects into Malden, a battle erupted, with officers fatally shooting one of the suspects, who allegedly fired at them first.

Megna is accused of being behind the wheel of a stolen red Honda, and leading police from Route 1 southbound to Route 99, then into the parking lot of the Cliffside Commons apartment complex at 500 Broadway. The men allegedly jumped out of the getaway car and carjacked a young woman whose two small children were inside her car. But the suspects quickly abandoned the vehicle because they were unable to operate its manual transmission, according to Verner.

Police had temporarily lost sight of the suspects toward the end of the chase before finding the empty car in the apartment parking lot.

William Ekasala, 35, of East Boston, reportedly shot at police as he attempted to flee, but was struck and killed when officers returned fire.

The gunfire sent residents fleeing for cover.

The other alleged accomplice, Ginnetti, 38, of Winthrop, was arrested soon after the shootout. Police said they found body armor, a handgun, and a bag of money near him.

Verner said Megna, 48, was found about two hours later, "cowering'' in a stairwell inside the apartment complex, after a massive police search of the area.

Advertisement

Megna has an extensive criminal history, Verner said. He was convicted of manslaughter in Suffolk County as a teenager and served almost 14 years in prison, and was convicted in Essex County of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon and larceny, leading to a five-year sentence, Verner said. Megna will be prosecuted as a career criminal, a designation that would enhance any prison term if convicted. Verner asked Malden District Court Judge Antoinette Leoney to impose a $1 million bail, which she did.

Benjamin B. Selman, Megna's defense attorney, said the bail was excessive, and added that his client was not in possession of body armor or firearms when he was arrested.

Despite the allegations, Anthony Megna defended his son Monday.

"On his own, he wouldn't steal a candy bar,'' Megna said on the front steps of Malden District Court. "He's not dangerous; believe me. . . . He was fooling around with the wrong people. I've never heard of those people they said he was with.''

Megna said he rarely sees his son. The father also listed his son's woes, saying he had been morbidly obese at 420 pounds before a recent surgery; his trailer home had burned down; and he had fallen on hard times, recently asking family for money.

He said his son has been homeless and living temporarily with friends. A recent address for Gabriel Megna lists him as a resident of the same multifamily home as Ekasala, on Bennington Street in East Boston.

Advertisement

A probable-cause hearing for Megna was set for May 11.

Megna was charged with armed carjacking, assault with a dangerous weapon, and receiving a stolen motor vehicle. Ginnetti was charged in Essex Superior Court with armed robbery.

Brian R. Ballou can be reached at bballou@globe.com. Globe correspondent Matt Byrne contributed to this report.