A Baltimore police officer investigating a domestic disturbance on Saturday morning in the Reservoir Hill neighborhood shot and killed a man armed with a knife, according to authorities.

A police spokesman identified the man who was killed as George Wells, 29, of the 2500 block of Brookfield Ave., the same location that the officer had responded for the call. Other details, including how many times and where on his body Wells was shot, were not released on Saturday.

Advertisement

Police said Wells was pronounced dead at Maryland Shock Trauma Center at 12:23 p.m., less than 45 minutes after the shooting.

It was the second shooting by a city police officer since Tuesday, when a patrolman killed a 21-year-old man who department officials said threatened the officer with a knife. That officer also had responded to a domestic disturbance, this one in North Baltimore.

Advertisement

These shootings are the first two by city police officers this year. In January, a man was fatally shot in the city by Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County officers who had pursued the suspect after they said he stole a police cruiser.

Baltimore Police Lt. Col. Garnell W. Green, commander of the homicide unit, said Saturday's incident began about 11:15 a.m. when an officer responded to a call for a disturbance inside the rowhouse on Brookfield Ave.

A police spokesman, Agent Donny Moses, said he did not know what the argument was about but that Wells' girlfriend was the person who called for help. "Apparently it got to the point she felt she needed to call police," he said.

Green said that when the Central District officer arrived, Wells ran from the house and the officer chased him about two blocks, to Callow Avenue, next to a senior citizens' apartment building on Druid Park Lake Drive.

He said the man had an edged weapon and that he and the officer got into a physical altercation. He said the officer fired at least one shot, striking the man. Green declined to say how many times the officer fired his weapon or where on the body the man was struck. The police commander also declined to describe the weapon.

City police identify officers involved in shootings 48 hours after the incident. Earlier this week, they identified the officer who shot the man in North Baltimore as Michael Gordon. The person he shot was identified as Sheron Carter Jackson, who lived in the 2700 block of West Cold Spring Lane, where the shooting occurred.

peter.hermann@baltsun.com