ST. LOUIS COUNTY • Lavon Peete, 15, pointed a sawed-off rifle at the county police officer who shot and killed him, Police Chief Tim Fitch said Wednesday.

But Justin Meehan, a spokesman for Lavon’s family, disputes the account and is calling for the FBI to investigate.

“We believe that when the other witnesses are ready to come forward, they will dispute the fact that Lavon had a gun when he was shot,” said Meehan, an attorney who said he is friends with the family.

Fitch said he would welcome the FBI in to investigate Tuesday night’s shooting.

“We always expect the family to be upset, and our condolences are certainly with them,” Fitch said. “But this officer has a job to do and he acted the way we train them to act. It is an unfortunate fact of this business.”

The officer fired after Lavon ignored an order to drop the gun, Fitch said. No one else was hurt.

Police will turn their information over to Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch for review. “The prosecutor is the one to determine whether this shooting was justified,” Fitch said.

Lavon lived with his family in 3900 block of Lada Avenue in Bel-Ridge.

His mother, Donita Peete, told a reporter she did not believe her son would have a weapon, and that she didn’t allow guns in her home. The family believed Lavon was visiting a cousin Tuesday night.

Fitch said the officer was in the Glasgow Village area of north St. Louis County about 10 p.m. when he discovered an open door at a vacant home and called for help. At about that time, he heard gunshots from a residential area in the 10600 block of Moidart Circle and searched a heavily wooden area behind some homes there.

“He came across three individuals and could clearly see one of them holding a long gun,” the chief explained. The weapon turned out to be a sawed-off rifle. Lavon ignored the officer’s commands to drop the weapon, Fitch said, and pointed it at the officer, who fired several times.

Lavon died at the scene. Two people ran off. Police believe they know who they are, but have not been able to question them, Fitch said. The officer called to assist did not witness the shooting.

The rifle was still in Lavon’s hands when officers arrived, Fitch said. An investigator with the medical examiner’s office found several rounds of live rifle ammunition in the teen’s pocket, he said, and police also recovered several spent rifle casings at the scene.

Fitch said the officer, now on administrative leave during the investigation, will be publicly identified once the investigation is complete. The chief said that officer is in his 30s, has been with the department seven years and is a master field training instructor — someone who trains the field training officers who train rookies.

Fitch said the officer was “clearly upset that he had to take this action” and that Lavon’s age “is really weighing on the officer’s mind.”

“What in the world is a 15-year-old doing in a residential neighborhood with a sawed-off rifle at that time of night?” Fitch asked. “And his family deserves an answer to that.”

Lavon was the youngest of five children. Family members said they have a hard time reconciling his personality with the police account.

“He was a very loving, caring little boy and would never hurt anybody,” said his sister, Aigner Turman, 19.

Lavon’s brother, Fred Turman, 23, said Lavon was a freshman at Lafayette High School, the last of the five siblings to attend that school in the Rockwood district. “He rode the bus 45 minutes every morning to get there,” Turman said. “He was a good kid. A good kid.”

But a Rockwood spokeswoman says Peete left Lafayette in the fall of 2010 and transferred to the Normandy school district. A Normandy spokeswoman said Lavon Peete enrolled Aug. 15 and withdrew on Aug. 17.

Visitation will be from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tuesday at the William C. Harris Funeral Home, 9825 Halls Ferry Road, with the funeral there immediately after. Burial will be at Laurel Hill Cemetery in Pagedale. Contributions to help cover funeral costs are being accepted at the funeral home.

Kim Bell of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

EDITOR'S NOTE: This story has been updated to correct the year Peete left the Rockwood school district.