Jim Schoettler

The decision by a veteran Jacksonville police supervisor to shoot an armed felon during a drug raid Thursday likely saved the lives of detectives struggling with two men only feet away, a police official said Friday.

Juan Montrice Lawrence, 40, died after being shot twice by Sgt. Val Demps in the mid-afternoon raid at the Casa del Rio St. Johns apartment complex at 3500 University Blvd. N. near Jacksonville University.

Director John Hartley of the Sheriff's Office said Lawrence's most recent address was in Tampa. His criminal history includes convictions for carrying a concealed firearm, possession of cocaine and soliciting another for lewdness, state records show.

Detectives had spent six weeks making crack cocaine purchases from Apartment 906 at the sprawling Arlington complex and went Thursday to arrest the man who handled the sales. Police identified him as Nathaniel Hill Sr., 39.

After a drug deal with Hill, a take-down team of officers tried to grab him but were pulled into the apartment in a struggle that ended with them on the floor. Hill's son ran up and was taken to the ground as well.

Stepping over the pile of people near the door, Demps looked around and saw Lawrence in a hallway holding a gun in his hand. Hartley said Demps repeatedly ordered Lawrence to drop the gun and fired four shots when he refused. One shot hit Lawrence in the face and another in the hip.

Lawrence's gun had seven rounds and he was also holding a clip of bullets, Hartley said Friday. Hartley called the veteran a well-seasoned detective who acted appropriately.

"If he'd let him get down that hallway, we could have three or four dead officers at the scene," Hartley said. "Certainly he [Lawrence] was ready to fire on them."

It was Demps' third shooting in a 23-year career that includes him being named Sheriff's Office Supervisor of the Year. Neither of the other shootings ended in a fatality.

Slideshow: 2012 police-involved shootings in the Jacksonville area

Lawrence's family could not be reached to comment.

Neighbors said Friday that they suspected drugs were being sold from the apartment because of the amount of new faces coming and going from there on a daily basis.

Katrina Holloway said she was walking home about 100 yards from the apartment when she saw police in several marked and unmarked cars pull up to the apartment. She said she saw at least one officer armed with a rifle and she knew why they were there.

"Everybody knew they were drug dealers," said Holloway, 51, who's lived in the complex for two years.

She applauded the police for doing their job.

"They've got families to go home to and they should get home to them safe," Holloway said. "Anybody who pulls a gun on them should know that."

Hill was charged with selling cocaine and possession of a weapon by a convicted felon. A search of the home included the recovery of a handgun and 30 rounds of ammunition. Just over an ounce of cocaine also was found.

Hill's son was not charged.

Court records show Hill's last arrest occurred in 2004 when he was convicted of possession of cocaine. He served two days in jail on that charge. He also has convictions for possession of marijuana, domestic battery and resisting police.

Thursday's shooting was the sixth by Jacksonville police this year, with three ending in fatalities.

jim.schoettler@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4385