SAGINAW, MI — A Saginaw police officer acted appropriately when he fatally shot an armed home invasion suspect in early April, the county prosecutor says.

Prosecutor Michael D. Thomas, in a press release, stated that based on the investigation by two Michigan State Police detective sergeants, he determined that the April 10 homicide of Andre Jones was justifiable.

Thomas stated that three Saginaw police officers responded to 2712 Glenwood south of Gallagher on the city's East Side after the homeowner called 911 and reported a man “on his back porch with a gun in hand and was trying to break into his house.”

When the officers “moved up the driveway, (they) saw a young male suspect on the rear porch and called out to him twice to put his weapon down and surrender,” Thomas stated. Jones, the suspect, “refused to surrender and brought the handgun up and pointed it at (a Saginaw police officer) from a distance of less than 15 feet and attempted to shoot the officer,” Thomas stated.

The officer, whom Thomas did not name, “defended himself and fellow officers” by fatally shooting Jones, Thomas stated.

“When (Jones) fell on the porch after being shot, he still had the loaded, stolen .25-caliber semi-automatic handgun in a firing grip in his right hand,” Thomas stated.

State police detective sergeants Allan Ogg and Jason Teddy concluded that the officer “acted in self defense and defense of others against a deadly threat by (Jones),” Thomas stated.

Jones' death was the 11th homicide in Saginaw County, including nine in the city of Saginaw; two others, including one in the city, have occurred since. Of the county's 13 total homicides, three have been ruled justifiable by Thomas, including two officer-involved incidents.

About the same time Jones was shot, Saginaw police used a Taser on Bobby L. Merrill Jr., 38, who police said was acting strangely, walking in the street and jumping onto cars. Merrill became combative and officers deployed their Tasers, which didn't have an effect.

While handcuffed in the back of a police cruiser, Merrill began to show “symptoms of going into (cardiac) arrest,” Saginaw Police Chief Gerald H. Cliff has said. Merrill died a short time later at a hospital.

State police also are investigating Merrill's death. Thomas has yet to reach a conclusion on Merrill's death.

Follow Andy Hoag on Twitter @SNAndyHoag