Jordan Guinn

STOCKTON - Alternating between celebration and sorrow, friends and relatives honored the life of James Cooke, 54, during a memorial service Saturday.

The public knows him largely because he died while in custody of the Stockton Police Department in mid-April. To those who knew him, Cooke was much more than a man whose sudden and mysterious demise is under investigation by law enforcement. Numerous speakers at the service at Thessalonians Baptist Church described him as a devoted father, hardworking contractor and devout Christian.

"There is a lot of love here today," said his cousin, the Rev. Abraham Cooke. "And love is more powerful than death."

James "Henry" Sando Madave Cooke was born in Liberia in 1957 and emigrated to the United States in 1988. Before leaving his homeland, James Cooke was employed in the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce as an agricultural technician. He fathered one girl in Liberia and became a parent to four more children after arriving in America.

While living in Stockton with his brother, James Cooke commuted to his construction job in Marysville before being laid off in 2010. He worked as an independent contractor in the years leading up to his death. He specialized in flooring, plumbing and drywall finishing.

He had been married once and was divorced. He was a father of three daughters and two sons.

At his funeral, relatives spoke on behalf of his two youngest daughters and relayed their stories of how he was protective of them and lectured them not to be "frisky."

They shared memories of how he'd show up to the McDonald's where one worked and playfully urge her to be the one who cooked his Egg McMuffin, or how he would be concerned while sitting in the passenger seat as another learned to drive.

Somber reflections were peppered among the outbursts of laughter and dancing at the three-hour service that packed the church with more than 200 people.

Some relatives also cast doubt on the Stockton Police Department's explanation of James Cooke's death, which took place the morning of April 12.

According to police, Cooke ran from officers after being pulled over at West Lane and Bianchi Road shortly before 2 a.m. He was struck with batons after refusing to obey orders, according to police. Before being put into the squad car, James Cook was cuffed and placed into a Safe Wrap, which immobilizes a person's legs and hips.

Because force was used during his apprehension, officers followed standard procedure and took him to a hospital for observation, police said. James Cooke made no complaint of pain after being detained, officials said.

Police say Cooke continued to struggle, even after being restrained, and at some point during the seven- to 10-minute car ride to the hospital became quiet. The two officers did not suspect anything was wrong, police said, because they are trained not to antagonize a suspect in custody by looking back or communicating with them.

Upon arriving at the hospital, authorities noticed the man was unresponsive and emergency workers could not revive him.

In an interview two weeks before the funeral, the man's sister-in-law, Bennie Madave, said he had an abscess on his left calf that would have made running a challenge.

"He had surgery on April 9," she said. "He could barely walk."

She also suspects his dialect could've confused officers. "He spoke English, but his accent was thick," she said. "He could've sounded aggressive because he always talked loud and fast."

Since he died while in custody, James Cooke's death is being reviewed by a process known as a protocol investigation.

It includes representatives from police, the District Attorney's Office and the San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office. The county coroner has conducted an autopsy, but the report is not yet complete.

An official determination of his cause of death remains to be made. Typically, coroner's reports can take from four to eight months to complete, but autopsy reports in protocol investigations may not be released until the entire probe is finished.

Protocol investigations regularly take more than a year to finish. The investigation into the death of James Rivera Jr., 16, who was fatally shot by police and sheriff's deputies in July 2010, remains active.

If James Cooke's autopsy report is released before the protocol investigation is concluded, it would be because the coroner's office elects to make the information public, said Robert Himelblau, deputy district attorney for San Joaquin County. However, evidence such as footage from the patrol car's video camera is always withheld until the entire probe is finished, he said.

Although unsettled by the lack of closure, many who spoke at James Cooke's funeral focused on positive memories and the idea he's at peace instead of the yet-to-be answered questions surrounding his death.

One speaker drew comfort from a belief in a higher power knowing exactly what happened that morning and the complete story will someday be told.

"He never got the chance to tell his side of the story," said Daniel Cooke, who read James Cooke's obituary before the congregation. "But there's someone who knows what happened; God knows. God sees all."

Contact reporter Jordan Guinn at (209) 546-8279 or jguinn@recordnet.com. Visit his blog at recordnet.com/crimeblog.