Billy Hyde (Source: Arkansas Crime Information Center)

Bancorp South location on Highway 49 South in Paragould.

JONESBORO, AR (KAIT) - District Prosecuting Attorney Scott Ellington released a letter to KAIT regarding his findings in the deadly standoff in Paragould.

According to Ellington, the two SWAT team members who killed Billy Charles Hyde were justified in their use of deadly force.

Ellington said that after reviewing audio and video recordings of the incident that was recorded by a night vision camera in the ASP helicopter, he believes the officers returned fire to eliminate the threat.

Interviews with the SWAT team members reveal that Hyde was instructed to put down his weapon, but he refused. Hyde then opened fire on the officers, almost hitting one in the head.

Ellington noted that Hyde also had an extra loaded magazine for his .40 caliber pistol at the time he and officers exchanged fire.

Ellington suggested the SWAT team members should be allowed to return to work as quickly as Arkansas State Police policy allows.

Copyright 2012 KAIT. All Rights Reserved.

_____

GREENE COUNTY, AR (KAIT) – Two Arkansas State Troopers who fatally shot a Paragould man after a 12-hour standoff have been cleared of any wrongdoing.

According to Arkansas State Police Public Information Officer Bill Sadler, both ASP troopers are back on regular duty after a weekend shooting in Paragould. The names of those involved have yet to be released.

According to Arkansas State Police, 29-year-old Billy Charles Hyde of Paragould was shot and killed early Saturday morning after he fired on two SWAT members with Arkansas State Police. They returned fire, killing Hyde.

The incident started when Hyde fled from an Arkansas State Trooper on Friday April 13, after being spotted in a suspected get-away vehicle. The vehicle was wanted in connection with the Bancorp South Bank robbery on Hwy 49 in Paragould. According to Paragould Police, the bank was robbed around 4 p.m. Friday afternoon.

Paragould Police say after the bank robbery, a pursuit ensued and the suspect may have thrown some of the money out of the window while running from police.

The bank robbery turned into a stand-off once Hyde barricaded himself inside a home off of Greene County Road 818. According to police, a woman was in the home with Hyde, who was later identified as his wife.

Greene County Sheriff's Deputies, Paragould Police, Arkansas State Police and FBI secured the scene and attempted to talk to Hyde and his wife. Throughout the night, Hyde refused to surrender.

Police say at 11:42p, Hyde's wife left the home, and was questioned by police and subsequently released.

At approximately 1:25 a.m. Saturday morning, Hyde escaped from the home by crawling through a hole in the floor.

ASP said Hyde then went east from the home about a quarter mile into a heavily wooded area.

The Canine Units from Brookland and Jonesboro were called to the scene to help locate Hyde.

Around 4 a.m., a specialized camera on an Arkansas State Police helicopter picked up a heat readout from the ground.

Police say the readout appeared to be a man lying down. The aircraft spotter guided officers to the area at which time Hyde rose and fired on two SWAT members with Arkansas State Police. They returned fire, killing Hyde.

Region 8 News will continue to track this story and bring you any new updates as soon as they become available.

Copyright 2012 KAIT. All rights reserved.