Dana Treen

Andrea M. Sheldon was a hospice nurse who, along with her husband, took in stray animals, said family and neighbors trying to understand her death in a confrontation with St. Johns County deputies Saturday night.

Sheldon, 46, was killed after four deputies opened fire when she came out of her mobile home armed with a shotgun and aimed it at the men, the Sheriff's Office said. Neighbors heard at least four shots coming from the vicinity of the home nestled in a heavily wooded lot along a rural dirt road 5 miles west of St. Augustine.

"She pointed the shotgun directly at one of our deputies who was standing in her yard," said Sgt. Chuck Mulligan of the St .Johns County Sheriff's Office. "She did not follow commands to drop the weapon after deputies announced who they were."

Mulligan said he did not know if Sheldon fired a round. He would not describe the gauge of the shotgun because the case is under investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

"My understanding is she never said a word," he said.

Deputies were first called to Sheldon's residence off County Road 214 about 10:30 p.m. by a person who said there was a despondent man in the woods near the home. As they were arriving, they were told Sheldon and her husband, Richard Sheldon, a firefighter with the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department, were in a domestic dispute involving weapons.

Mulligan said the caller was not at the house, that Sheldon and her husband were there alone.

"That's how we knew there was somebody in the house," Mulligan said.

Following the shooting, deputies attempted cardiopulmonary resuscitation on Andrea Sheldon but were unsuccessful.

Richard Sheldon was not at the house. He was located later "a good distance from his home" where his vehicle was stuck in a ditch, according to the Sheriff's Office. He was also armed but surrendered.

Andrea Sheldon's uncle, Paul Landry, said Sunday the family was looking for explanations.

"It doesn't make any sense," he said. "We don't understand."

When Richard Sheldon visited his mother-in-law Sunday morning, he was "extremely upset," Landry said.

Landry said his niece was a hospice nurse who took in strays and had dogs, cats and goats. The couple had a self-sustaining lifestyle and used solar panels to heat water and generate electricity, Landry said.

"She was very kind, very passive," Landry said.

The couple grew vegetables and saved rainwater in barrels, neighbors said

Those neighbors, who knew Andrea Sheldon as "Andi," said she and her husband had lived along the road for a handful of years.

"I would never expect one of them to come out of the house and do something like this," said Keith Brown, 21, who has lived on the property next door for 13 years. "They were just nice, genuine people."

Brown recalled his neighbor giving him shots when he was sick and said the couple watched his dog from time to time. In addition to a mobile home, the couple had a travel trailer where a friend of theirs once lived, and a garage in back.

Just down from the Sheldons, neighbor Pamela Bostic said her son saw a couple of men stopped in front of her house Saturday night and apparently argued before taking off in a car. She said she doesn't know if the incident is related but said it was not long before deputies arrived.

"We heard the shots," Bostic said.

Mulligan said investigators with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement were still interviewing deputies and others Sunday. The state agency was called in by St. Johns Sheriff David Shoar.

It was the first police-involved shooting by any of the four veteran deputies at the scene, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Officers involved in the shooting were Sgt. Glen Lappe, who has 22 years with the department; Deputy Michael Williams, 12 years; Deputy Scott Stokes, nine years; and Deputy Cameron Coward, eight years.

All have been placed on administrative leave, which is usual in such cases.

dana.treen@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4091