Officers responding to a disturbance call over the weekend used a stun gun on a Grass Valley man, who died later at a local hospital.The Nevada County district attorney is investigating the death of Bruce Wayne Chrestensen, 52.Officers with the Grass Valley Police Department were called to the 600 block of Freeman Lane on Sunday on reports that Chrestensen was yelling at people from the middle of the street.When officers arrived, they saw Chrestensen, who wasn’t completely dressed, in the road.Officers said Chrestensen failed to heed to verbal commands.When an oncoming vehicle passed by, Chrestensen struck the driver through an open window, police said.Police then used force, striking Chrestensen with a Taser to prevent further harm, police said.Chrestensen was taken to a hospital, where he later died.In an exclusive interview with KCRA 3, Chrestensen's sister said her brother had high blood pressure.She said she is still processing the situation."I feel officers have to protect themselves, but I don't know enough about the whole situation to say if I feel they should have used it with him or not," Chrestensen's sister said.Grass Valley police said officers will use a stun gun to calm a situation with the least amount of physical harm. But they don't know the medical history of the person in which the stun gun is being used."That has been a discussion in national stories in recent years. We have no way to know an individual's medical condition at the time," said Captain Rex Marks, of the Grass Valley Police Department.Per department policy, the death will be investigated through an independent review.

Officers responding to a disturbance call over the weekend used a stun gun on a Grass Valley man, who died later at a local hospital.

The Nevada County district attorney is investigating the death of Bruce Wayne Chrestensen, 52.

Advertisement

Officers with the Grass Valley Police Department were called to the 600 block of Freeman Lane on Sunday on reports that Chrestensen was yelling at people from the middle of the street.

When officers arrived, they saw Chrestensen, who wasn’t completely dressed, in the road.

Officers said Chrestensen failed to heed to verbal commands.

When an oncoming vehicle passed by, Chrestensen struck the driver through an open window, police said.

Police then used force, striking Chrestensen with a Taser to prevent further harm, police said.

Chrestensen was taken to a hospital, where he later died.

In an exclusive interview with KCRA 3, Chrestensen's sister said her brother had high blood pressure.

She said she is still processing the situation.

"I feel officers have to protect themselves, but I don't know enough about the whole situation to say if I feel they should have used it with him or not," Chrestensen's sister said.

Grass Valley police said officers will use a stun gun to calm a situation with the least amount of physical harm. But they don't know the medical history of the person in which the stun gun is being used.

"That has been a discussion in national stories in recent years. We have no way to know an individual's medical condition at the time," said Captain Rex Marks, of the Grass Valley Police Department.

Per department policy, the death will be investigated through an independent review.