BLOOMINGTON – A 38-year-old man died in an apparent suicide Saturday night after a police chase and a dispute involving a shooting on the city’s east side that sent another man to the hospital.

The McLean County coroner’s office identified the dead man as Joshua M. Jasso of Bloomington. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday afternoon.

Officials said Jasso was without obvious signs of life after he was removed from his vehicle by police after firing a single gunshot as he stopped in the center lane of Veterans Parkway just north of Parkway Plaza.

McLean County Sheriff Mike Emery said officers were called to Standish Drive in the Colonial Meadows subdivision around 10:20 p.m. for a call of shots fired. One victim had been shot and a suspect had fled the scene, according to information received by dispatchers, he said.

As of Monday morning, the McLean County Sheriff had yet to release the name of the shooting victim. The department continues to conduct interviews on the incident.

A pick-up truck matching the description of the one driven by the suspect was seen by a deputy traveling west on Empire Street from Gettysburg Drive. The driver refused orders from the deputy to leave his vehicle. The suspect turned north on Veterans Parkway where he stopped.

“After several attempts to get the suspect to acknowledge the commands of the officers, the vehicle was approached and the suspect was removed from the vehicle,” said Emery.

Emery confirmed that a single shot was fired inside the suspect’s car but did not give a specific cause of death.

The McLean County coroner’s office and the sheriff’s department are working on the investigation. Normal and Bloomington police also assisted.

The 35-year-old shooting victim was taken to OSF St. Joseph’s Medical Center where he is receiving treatment, said Emery, adding the victim and suspect were acquainted.

No additional details of the incident have been released.

The northbound lanes of Veterans Parkway from Parkway Plaza to Fort Jesse Road were closed for about three hours during the incident

The McLean County Sheriff has not released the name Monday morning. The department continues to conduct interviews on the incident today.