An investigation is under way into the conduct of two Apple Valley police officers involved in the shooting death of an armed man who police say resisted arrest.

The man was identified as Carl Anthony Tatum, 48, of Apple Valley, the Minnesota Bureau of Apprehension reported in a Monday, April 30, statement.

Tatum died of blood loss resulting from multiple gunshot wounds fired in the shooting Sunday, according to the BCA, the lead agency investigating the shooting at the request of the Apple Valley police to avoid a possible conflict of interest.

Interim Apple Valley Police Chief Jon Rechtzigel said there was “no wrongdoing” on the part of police. He said the officers involved responded appropriately to the threat.

“He was trying to kill my officers,” Rechtzigel said, referring to Tatum.

Shortly before 6 p.m., Apple Valley officers Tommie Booth and Tara Becker responded to a 911 call involving a domestic assault at a home, 13947 Herald Court.

A woman told a dispatcher that her live-in boyfriend was assaulting and choking her, Apple Valley police said in a statement. Officers found the woman outdoors after she fled the home for her safety. Police found Tatum, the woman’s boyfriend inside the home.

Tatum was “upset, loud and in an agitated state,” police reported. An officer was able to “somewhat calm” the man outside on the front steps. Police found enough evidence to arrest the man on suspicion of felony domestic assault by strangulation.

When police told the man he was under arrest, he ran back into the home, upstairs into a second-floor living room, where he grabbed a handgun from under a sofa cushion, Rechtzigel said. Officers Booth and Becker followed him inside.

“When we told the man he was under arrest, he had other thoughts,” Rechtzigel said.

Tatum fired multiple shots at Booth, the BCA reported. Booth returned fire, and fatally shot Tatum. Police began CPR and attempts to control his bleeding, police said.

No one else was injured.

“I’m just so relieved that our officers didn’t get physically harmed,” Rechtzigel said. “It was really close. We didn’t want to have any officers harmed.”

Paramedics took Tatum to St. Paul’s Regions Hospital, where he died later Sunday night. The Ramsey County medical examiner began performing an autopsy Monday.

Relatives in Greensboro, N.C., where Tatum lived until about 10 years ago, said Tatum was a caring father and grandfather, and they’re not satisfied with the police explanation of what happened.

“I just know the stuff they (said), that’s not my dad,” Eric Tatum, 27, said. “That’s not his character. We want to know what happened leading up to the shooting.”

The Rev. Kenneth Tatum, said his brother-in-law Carl Tatum, a truck driver, went out of his way to help family members when he could. Carl Tatum has two daughters who live in North Carolina and a son in college.

“He was a good guy,” Kenneth Tatum said. “He loved his children. He loved his kids. He was a good brother.”

Funeral services will be held in North Carolina, relatives said.

“He was our rock,” Eric Tatum said. “He was what kept us together. It’s a hard pill to swallow.”

BCA investigators have interviewed Booth and Becker about Sunday’s shooting.

Once the investigation is complete, the case will be reviewed by the Dakota County attorney’s office. All cases involving fatal shootings by police are presented to a Dakota County Grand Jury, according to the county attorney’s adopted guidelines.

The two officers involved in the incident were placed on paid administrative leave, which is a routine procedure, Rechtzigel said.

Booth has been an Apple Valley police officer since February 1999, police said. During his employment, Booth has received two commendations, two department awards of merit, and a Life Saving Award.

Becker has worked in Apple Valley since September 2001, police reported. She has received six commendations, a department award of merit, a Medal of Commendation and the Officer of the Year Award.

“These are two very good officers,” Rechtzigel said.

Sunday’s shooting was the first officer-related shooting in Apple Valley since October 2000, according to police. In the 2000 shooting, Gennadiy Balandin, 17, and his friends had allegedly taken LSD and were running around a neighborhood when police showed up.

Balandin was naked when he rushed at police and was shot three times, police reported.

Balandin, who was paralyzed in the shooting, later settled with the city of Apple Valley for more than $3 million to pay for his medical and educational expenses.

Since 1994, there have been 10 prior officer-related shootings in Dakota County, said County Attorney James Backstrom. Six of the shootings were fatal.

The last officer-related shooting in the county happened during a 2009 high-speed chase in downtown Hastings, said Dakota County Sheriff Dave Bellows. The suspect, Roman U. Tokarev, 29, left notes saying he was on a suicide mission before police shot and injured him. Tokarev was sentenced to 10 years in prison after pleading guilty to four felonies.

Bellows said such shootings are uncommon.

“They don’t happen frequently,” Bellows said. “The mass majority of officers will go their entire career and not discharge their weapon in an officer-involved shooting.”

Maricella Miranda can be reached at 651-228-5421. Follow her at twitter.com/mariwritesnews.