MOBILE, Alabama -- A Mobile man embroiled in a domestic dispute this morning who resisted arrest was shot with a taser and died later at Providence Hospital, police said. The cause of death was not immediately known.

The deceased suspect, Gregory Rachel, 42, was the co-owner of Bob’s Chevron on Government Street in Mobile.

In a 2003 Press-Register article, Rachel was hailed as a hometown hero for helping a serviceman have his car towed and repaired after Rachel already had worked an 11-hour day at the business he owns with his father, Bob Rachel.

Here’s what happened in the pre-dawn hours Tuesday, according to police:

About 3 a.m. Tuesday, officers responded to a report of a domestic dispute on Estate Drive in west Mobile near Scott Dairy Loop South.

When police arrived, they found a female victim who had been injured. Police did not identify the victim, but said her injuries did not appear to be life threatening.

The woman told police that Gregory Rachel “was displaying delusional behavior during the assault,” Corp. Christopher Levy said in a news release.

Then, officers approached the single-story home and found Rachel in the front yard. After receiving several commands from the officers, Rachel, 42, began to actively resist efforts to place him in custody, Levy said.

During the physical confrontation, police said, Rachel was tased with little or no effect. “It took four officers to restrain him in the front yard,” Levy said.

It was unclear Tuesday afternoon how many times Rachel was shot with a taser, Levy said.

Typically, when a taser-style gun is fired, two electrodes -- one with a positive charge, the other negative -- attach to the target’s clothing, delivering a serious electric shock. A law-enforcement version shoots prongs out about 25 feet and often immobilizes someone for about five seconds.

Soon after the physical confrontation Tuesday morning, Levy said, Rachel began to show signs of medical distress. Paramedics with Mobile Fire-Rescue were called, Levy said. They took Rachel to Providence Hospital where he died.

Levy said that homicide detectives from the Mobile Police Department and the Internal Affairs Unit are continuing the investigation.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call the Mobile Police Department at 251-208-7211, Crime Stoppers at 251-208-7000 or text to 274637 and include the keyword CRIME 411.