Charges have been filed against two convicted felons who were shot and wounded by Chicago police officers as they drove a stolen car through the door of an electronics store in the Little Village neighborhood, officials said.

A third man in the car was shot and killed by the officers.

Advertisement

John W. Givens and Leland Dudley, both 32, are each charged with murder, burglary and possession of a stolen vehicle after the shooting Monday morning at Mike's Electronics, police said.

Ogden District officers were responding to a burglary call at the store in the 2400 block of South Western Avenue between 2:30 a.m. and 2:45 a.m. Monday, authorities said.

Advertisement

The officers spotted three men inside, then surrounded the business, announced they were the police and knocked on the doors, trying to get the men to surrender, according to Pat Camden, a spokesman for the Fraternal Order of Police, which represents the department's rank-and-file.

But the three men -- Givens, Dudley and David Strong, 27 -- continued to load stolen goods into a car belonging to the store's owner that was parked inside the business, Camden said.

The men got in the car and tried to escape by driving through a metal door, Camden said. The swerving car struck an officer and a squad car, and then raced toward several other officers, Camden said. The officers opened fire, he said.

Strong, of the 1600 block of North Lockwood Avenue, was dead at the scene, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

The other two were taken to Stroger Hospital. The injured officer was taken to Mount Sinai Hospital for bruises and contusions, Camden said.

Police recovered a cache of stolen electronics and other goods inside the car, Camden said.

Givens and Dudley were each charged with murder because Strong died during the commission of a crime, authorities said.

Givens, who police say was behind the wheel of the stolen car, was also charged with aggravated battery to a police officer.

Advertisement

All three men had felony convictions on their record, including Dudley, who was out on parole for concurrent 2002 and 2004 convictions, according to state records.

Both men are scheduled to have their charges heard in court later today, though it was unclear whether the hospitalized men would appear.

wlee@tribune.com

Twitter: @MidNoirCowboy