The Secret Service agent who ran down and killed a Brooklyn mother of five as she was crossing a busy intersection swerved to avoid hitting her, police said Friday.

But 47-year-old Maria Tripp ran into the path of his car.

Advertisement

"She tries to go back towards the center lane," a police source said. "He swerves but she ran into the direction of where he swerves to, the center lane, and is struck."

The deadly accident at an intersection in the Ocean Hill neighborhood was captured on videotape. The driver, identified by sources as Felton Joseph, was not charged with a crime.

Advertisement

Joseph remained at the scene after the crash Thursday and tested negative for alcohol. He also has a clean driving record, sources said.

Meanwhile, Tripp's family gathered at the dead woman's Bedford-Stuyvesant home to grieve.

Tripp was struck while crossing Atlantic Ave. at Ralph Ave. with her 12-year-old daughter, a 19-year-old nephew and another relative, police said.

The family was in the crosswalk, but they ignored a red light, police said.

The group was trying to get to the roadway under the Long Island Railroad tracks in the center of Atlantic Ave. and had started crossing the street when they spotted Felton, heading northbound in a 2009 Chevrolet sedan.

Tripp's nephew yanked her daughter out of harm's way and along with the other relative they made it to the roadway beneath the LIRR.

Tripp did not. She dodged the other direction and the Chevy barrelled into her.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"She went up like 50 feet in the air," a witness said. "She hit the ground, and she wasn't moving at all. She was messed up, she was unconscious."

Advertisement

Other witnesses said Joseph's car jumped the sidewalk in front of a Hess gas station after hitting Tripp. Both passenger-side tires were blown out.

Joseph climbed out of the car and could be heard repeating, "I'm on the job, I'm on the job."

The Secret Service confirmed the agent was indeed "on the job" at the time of the accident, but did not divulge what he was doing.

Tripp was taken to Interfaith Hospital where she died, police said.

— With Simone Weichselbaum

rparascandola@nydailynews.com