Three African-American community leaders, who Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey cited as supporters in a statement defending his decision not to release a video showing the actions that lead to the death of a combat veteran at the county jail, are saying the sheriff should release the video.

They also say they had no idea that their quotes, which were real and offered general support for the sheriff, were going to be used to back up the sheriff's decision not to release the video or to accuse FLORIDA TODAY of inciting civil unrest by asking about the video.

The 38-year-old veteran, Gregory Edwards, got into a confrontation with a deputy during his booking process on Dec. 9, 2018. They fell to the floor and then Edwards was beaten, kneed, sprayed with a chemical agent, shocked with a stun gun, handcuffed and strapped into a restraint chair with a spit hood covering his face. The confrontation involved as many as seven sheriff's deputies.

The decorated Army medic, who was being treated for post-traumatic stress disorder, lost consciousness after being left alone in the restraint chair for nearly 16 minutes, reports show. He died the next day in a hospital.

State Attorney Phil Archer, reviewing the sheriff's office's own investigative review, cleared the sheriff's deputies of wrongdoing in July 2019 and commended them for their actions. After being criminally cleared, an investigation by the BCSO Staff Services Unit found that four deputies in the jail violated a general policy of maintaining "Professional Duty Responsibilities" during and after the incident.

The sheriff's office did not respond to an emailed request for a comment on the latest developments.

More than a year after her husband's death, Kathleen Edwards, also a combat veteran with two small children, has repeatedly pleaded with both agencies to release the video depicting what happened. She says they have not responded. The widow, who is working with an attorney, has also asked for an independent investigation into her husband's death but to no avail.

"I am concerned. I believe the video should be released, that certainly would be the best. In order for the family to have closure. I believe this would be a perfect example for the nation," said Dr. Lorenzo Laws, pastor of Greater Allen Chapel AME, who along with attorney Kendall Moore and James Minus of the South Brevard Branch of the NAACP were quoted as supporting the sheriff when FLORIDA TODAY reached out to the sheriff's office for comment about the video on Monday.

Kathleen Edwards will speak Saturday at the March for Justice rally in Rockledge. The demonstration is in response to the death of 46-year-old George Floyd in Minneapolis as the lingering national debate over criminal justice reform, transparency, and police tactics, continue. Bystanders along a Minneapolis street videoed a police officer kneeling on Floyd's neck for more than eight minutes as Floyd said, ‘I can’t breathe.’

Four police officers were arrested and charged in the homicide.

More:Widow of veteran who died in Brevard jail renews call for video of husband's death

More:FLORIDA TODAY responds to Brevard County Sheriff's Office

More:Brevard County Sheriff's Office responds to request for comment on Gregory Lloyd Edwards

Across the nation:Mourners grieve George Floyd at memorial service

The three Brevard men, all heavily-involved in civil rights or community activism, contacted FLORIDA TODAY after seeing that Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey had used quotes from them in his emailed response, which FLORIDA TODAY published online.

Questions about releasing the video have arisen again as Edwards' widow has watched protests erupt around the nation in response to George Floyd's death in Minneapolis. She's repeatedly posted on social media calling for #Justice4Gregory. And she's preparing to speak at the March for Justice rally taking place in Rockledge and Cocoa on Saturday.

Laws, Moore and Minus said the quotes offered by the sheriff's office, while authentic, were not given to the sheriff's agency in connection with the Edwards case and that they had no knowledge Sheriff Ivey would use their comments in that context.

"Those quotes were not intended to be related to these issues," attorney Kendall Moore said of the sheriff's email to FLORIDA TODAY. "I can't speak to (the sheriff's) intent," Moore said.

Minus and Laws also did not agree with the usage of their quotes.

"Once I saw the full quote, I thought it was being used to politicize the situation, and I wasn't comfortable with that," Minus said. "I kind of don't feel good about it happening that way. My concern right now is for accountability."

Minus also said that the video, which is in the possession of the state attorney's office and the sheriff's office, should be made public since the case has been closed since last year.

The medical examiner's office said Edward's death was an 'accident' due to 'excited delirium,' and a "hyperactive and violent state with subsequent restraint," in a ruling that drew criticism from a top-ranking state medical examiner.

More:Widow of veteran who died in Brevard jail renews call for video of husband's death

More:Brevard County Sheriff's Office responds to request for comment on Gregory Lloyd Edwards

More:Brevard County Sheriff's Office responds to request for comment on Gregory Lloyd Edwards

More:A death in custody: Army veteran's treatment in Brevard jail violated sheriff's office policies

The sheriff's office has also denied FLORIDA TODAY public records request for the jail video that detail Edward's final conscious moments.

The state attorney's office cited a longstanding policy of not releasing surveillance video, although such video typically is filed as part of discovery in a criminal case.

The sheriff's office blocked the video's release based on the agency's reading of a state law that exempts from public records material involving security systems. However, the sheriff's office allowed extensive filming of the jail for a television series called Banged Up: Teens Behind Bars in November 2018, a month before Edwards's death.

The three-part documentary in which British teens are enrolled in a 'scared straight' type program depicts daily life behind bars. Other agencies across the state have made public similar footage showing fights or other issues at county jails.

"I am morally concerned. Nationally, locally, globally, we have got to make changes and we have got to be transparent. The law enforcement community has to be transparent. It's an excellent thing to do," said Laws, who helped organize a prayer vigil in wake of Floyd's death and the ensuing protests across the nation.

"Social justice is a part of my DNA and doing what is right for the people. We are not going to always agree but we have to be about the business of change."

J.D. Gallop is a Criminal Justice/Breaking News Reporter at FLORIDA TODAY. Contact Gallop at 321-917-4641 or jdgallop@floridatoday.com. Twitter: @JDGallop. To subscribe: https://cm.floridatoday.com/specialoffer/