Dana Treen

An unarmed man shot six times and killed by Jacksonville police early Wednesday was reaching down inside his car when the officer opened fire, police said.

Davinian Darnell Williams, 36, had drugs in his socks but no weapon following the 2:15 a.m. traffic stop by Officer Jeff Edwards in Arlington, said Chief Tom Hackney. Williams had been driving suspiciously in a Bert Road area known for drug activity, then began trying to elude Edwards by making sudden turns and running several stop signs.

Slideshow:Police-involved shootings across Northeast Florida in 2012

When Williams did stop at Arlington Expressway and Rogero Road, he refused Edwards' commands to show his hands and was fidgeting and moving around inside the car, Hackney said. Edwards moved around behind the car from one side to the other to get a better view but couldn't see what Williams was doing.

"At that time, the suspect made a sudden motion, reaching down," Hackney said. Edwards fired seven times through a side window, striking Williams with six shots. Williams died at the scene.

Edwards, who was the lone officer at the scene, had called for backup but it had not arrived by the time the shooting took place.

"These traffic stops are filled with inherent dangers," Hackney said.

Police found 17.1 grams of powdered cocaine in one of Williams' socks and less than a gram of crack cocaine in the other, Hackney said. There was no weapon in the car or on Williams.

Edwards, a three-year veteran of the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, has been placed on administrative leave, which is normal in such cases as the State Attorney's Office investigates.

Williams had a court record going back to 1992, including arrests for battery on a law enforcement officer, resisting arrest, possession of marijuana and sale and possession of cocaine.

This is the seventh shooting involving a Jacksonville police officer this year and fourth ending in death. Each of the last two years had four suspects killed in eight police shootings.

dana.treen@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4091

clifford.davis@jacksonville.com, (904) 710-2316