Bellevue police Officer Mike Hetle, who fatally shot a 24-year-old man Wednesday in the parking lot of a Bellevue apartment complex, said yesterday that he will not volunteer any statements or give an interview to homicide detectives investigating the incident.

Department spokeswoman Marcia Harnden said Hetle's silence will make it difficult to put together an accurate picture of what happened before Hetle fired two rounds into the chest of Nelson Martínez.

"Basically, we're not going to get his story," Harnden said. "It is a bit frustrating because we don't have all the answers that we are looking for."

Hetle's lawyer, Chris Vick, said the strategy is a standard one that will protect Hetle from self-incrimination. Vick downplayed the significance of the decision and said if the department "ordered" Hetle to make a statement, he would.

"It boils down to his constitutional rights," Vick said. "He has exactly the same rights as anyone else, no more no less, including the right to remain silent."

Bellevue Police Chief James Montgomery can order Hetle to give a statement for an administrative, or internal, investigation. But any information Hetle provides as a result of that order, by law, is considered a coerced statement and cannot be used in any criminal proceedings involving Hetle.

At this time, Harnden said the department is not prepared to give Hetle that kind of immunity. She said it's still early in the investigation.

The information can be used for disciplinary action against Hetle, such as a firing.

Montgomery said Hetle will not return to duty "until the department is satisfied that we have all the facts about what happened in the incident."

Once the investigation is complete, the findings will be forwarded to the King County Prosecutor's Office, which will determine whether the shooting was justified or unjustified.

Meanwhile, several Latino community leaders yesterday said Hetle's refusal to immediately cooperate only "increases the suspicion" that the shooting was unjustified.

"What does he have to hide?" asked Rogelio Riojas, executive director of the Seattle-based Sea Mar Community Health Centers, which has 19 sites in Western Washington that serve a predominantly Latino clientele. "The facts are the facts. If he was not doing anything wrong, what is he afraid of?"

Woman called 911

On Wednesday afternoon, a 26-year-old woman called a 911 dispatcher to report that Martínez was threatening her with a knife in The Palisades apartment unit they shared in the 13600 block of Northeast 12th Street.

As officers were driving to the scene, Martínez suddenly left the second-floor apartment and drove away in his blue Chevrolet Corsica.

Hetle, who by then had entered the apartment complex, activated his emergency lights and tried to turn his police car sideways to block the Corsica from leaving. The two cars collided.

According to police accounts, Hetle ordered Martínez in Spanish and English to get out of the car and put his hands in the air. Hetle then confronted him while Martinez was in or near the car.

Some witnesses, however, have said they heard Hetle speak only in English. Martínez, who immigrated to the U.S. from Guatemala about two years ago, did not speak English.

Hetle, in his one unofficial statement to another officer, said that Martinez made some kind of threatening gesture, forcing him to fire, police said.

"It's a fairly specific statement that he made at the scene," Vick said. "He told them exactly what happened."

On Thursday, investigators found a knife and a crowbar in Martínez's car.

Oscar Eason, president of the Seattle branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said Hetle's involvement in two fatal shootings within a year raises an alarm.

Hetle, 33, was one of the two officers who shot and killed Airen Lee Weaver, 23, last September in the Nordstrom Grill cafe at Bellevue Square. Weaver, a bank robbery suspect, exchanged gunfire with the officers in a crowded hallway. That shooting was ruled justified by an internal investigation and a civilian inquest jury.

"That's enough to question the guy's conduct in stressful situations," Eason said.

Activists seek investigation

Eason was among the dozen Latino, African-American and Native American activists who held a news conference yesterday at the Seattle office of El Centro de La Raza, a Latino political and social-services organization, to demand an investigation into the shooting.

Metropolitan King County Councilman Larry Gossett called for the city of Bellevue to establish an independent citizens review board to investigate incidents such as the Martínez shooting.

Roberto Maestas, executive director of El Centro de La Raza, said the circumstances of Martínez' death are "extremely vague and suspicious."

Yesterday, Martínez's aunt, Margarita Guzmán, was trying to contact the Guatemalan consulate in San Francisco for help in sending her nephew's body back to Guatemala.

Martínez is from the small town of Nueva Esperanza, Guatemala, where his mother still lives, Guzmán said.

Residents of The Palisades yesterday started placing flowers on the chain-link fence next to the site of the shooting.