A traffic-collision expert hired by the Community Police Review Commission to examine the Riverside Police Department’s investigation of the fatal collision between a patrol car and a pedestrian agreed Wednesday, Jan. 9, with the department’s conclusion that Officer Michael Boulerice could not have avoided Isabel Pablo.

“Pedestrian Isabel Pablo was the sole cause of the collision,” said Steve Bellino, a former Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department deputy who operates a collision investigation company in Huntington Beach.

Boulerice, 28, was en route to a low-priority call on May 13, 2012, when he struck Pablo, 57, who was crossing Madison Street at Emerald Street in the Casa Blanca neighborhood about 8 a.m. on Mother’s Day. Boulerice was driving 40 mph, 5 mph over the posted speed limit. Pablo was crossing at a corner where there was not a crosswalk. She had a blood-alcohol content of 0.39, almost five times the limit at which a driver would be presumed intoxicated.

Video of the collision showed that Pablo did not look to her left, which would have allowed her to see the oncoming black and white.

“Isabel Pablo was walking in the roadway, not in a crosswalk, not in an unmarked crosswalk,” Bellino told commissioners. “Had she used the marked crosswalk, she would have been visible to Officer Boulerice.”

Pablo stepped into the road behind trees and bushes, and a parked pickup, all which obscured Boulerice’s vision, Bellino agreed.

Bellino did not in his presentation address an issue that has become a point of public contention in the crash – that Boulerice acknowledged he was using his patrol car’s computer, or MDC, shortly before the crash. Boulerice, in a statement to a sergeant immediately after the crash, said that he messed up, had been looking at his computer and did not see Pablo.

But in response to a question by Commissioner Ken Rotker, Bellino said the evidence showed that Boulerice was not distracted.

Bellino said Boulerice’s reaction time to braking after seeing Pablo was about 1.6 seconds, whereas the average reaction time of a motorist is 2.2 seconds. Boulerice could not have reacted that quickly, Bellino said, if Boulerice had not been looking at the road at the time Pablo would have first been visible.

Bellino also said that Boulerice could have avoided striking Pablo only if he was driving 32 mph – 3 mph below the posted speed limit – or slower.

Bellino, who said he has investigated 8,000 crashes, said he was “in awe” of the thoroughness of the Police Department’s 282-page report.

“I’m very gratified that the expert recognized the quality of the work that Officer (Greg) Matthews and Detective (Rick) Prince did,” Riverside Police Chief Sergio Diaz said in a phone interview afterward. Diaz described Pablo’s death as tragic.

Matthews and Prince sat in the back of City Council chambers during the presentation.

Not everyone agreed with Bellino’s finding.

Resident Paul Chavez said after Bellino’s report that Pablo might not have seen the patrol car because the sun was in her eyes or because the car was the same color as the road.

“This doesn’t look right. Not to me and the community,” Chavez said.

Bob Garcia, president of the Casa Blanca Community Action Group, said some residents of the neighborhood accepted the Police Department’s report as accurate, and some didn’t.

“What is the community going to say when they hear the expert’s analysis is the same as the police’s?” Garcia said.

The Riverside County district attorney’s office declined to prosecute Boulerice.

Six of Pablo’s children have sued the city for in excess of $25,000. They sought $1 million each in their initial claim.

Follow Brian Rokos on Twitter: @Brian_Rokos and online at blog.pressenterprise.com/crime-blotter/