LAWTON,Okla_There is more information on the overnight police chase across Comanche County that ended with the suspect shot to death.

It started just after 1 a.m. in Cache. The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation said 25-year-old Brian King, Jr. broke into his ex-girlfriend's house and assaulted a man who was there. King's ex-girlfriend called 911 and when Cache officers arrived, King fired several shots at them.

After the shootout, King took off and the chase was on.

King was from Lawton and we were told that he was trying to get home, but that has not been confirmed by officials. Eyewitnesses said around 2 a.m. a cul-de-sac near 24th and Cornell was filled with law enforcement and they had King cornered. That's when things took a turn for the worse.

To try and understand the actions that lead to King's death, you have to start at the house in Cache. The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation's Richard Goss said King broke into the home of his ex-girlfriend.

"It's our understanding that the relationship had been ended at least over a month and that he had been trying to re-initiate the relationship and she did not want to have anything to do with him."

King took an air conditioner out of a window, and crawled in the house. That's when he got into a fight with a man inside. Cache police were responding to a call about a break in and assault, but everything changed when King fired at officers.

"When officers are being shot at they have to use whatever means necessary to protect themselves and the public. You throw bullets around in a community like this there's no telling where it's going to wind up."

King managed to get away, but was spotted by authorities and began a chase that ended in Lawton. Goss said King ended up driving into the cul-de-sac, where authorities managed to box him in.

Investigators said the officers got out, ordered King to get out of his van, but he threw it into reverse, and rammed their cars twice. That's when police fired at King but the OSBI has not released where King was when he was shot.

An eyewitness who did not want to be identified said he saw King repeatedly ignore orders to give up.

"The van pulled into the alley, and they was [sic] on him like bees on honey. The police department really did their job. I heard the commands, then pop!"

"He's already shown his intent when he fired at the Cache police officers. Then, subsequent to that he's using a 3,000 pound automobile to try and run people over. That's clearly assault with a deadly weapon," Goss said.

The OSBI said there were four officers total from Lawton Police Department and the Comanche Nation involved in the fatal shooting, which is still under investigation.

As for the man who was assaulted in Cache, his condition has not been released and neither have his injuries. But Goss described the attack as vicious and said that man is being kept at a local hospital for observation.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



BELOW IS THE OFFICIAL PRESS RELEASE FROM THE OKLAHOMA STATE BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONS.

The Lawton and Cache Police Departments requested the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation investigate a police-involved shooting that happened overnight. Just after 1 o'clock Monday morning, Comanche County Dispatch received a 911 call reporting a man breaking into the caller's home at 611 West C in Cache. Police responded and found a male victim in the street who had been physically assaulted. They also witnessed another man come out of the house. That man, Brian Wesley King, Jr, fired several shots at officers and then fled the area in a van. Comanche County Deputies and Comanche Nation Officers located the van and began pursuit toward Lawton on U.S. Highway 62.



Once inside the Lawton city limits, Lawton Police joined in pursuit which ended just before 2 a.m. at the 2400 block of Cornell Avenue. There, King rammed a Comanche Nation Police vehicle and a Comanche County Sheriff's vehicle. Four officers shot at the suspect, killing the 25-year-old Lawton resident.



The OSBI will provide the Comanche County District Attorney information from the investigation. The D.A. will determine if the shooting was justified

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



LAWTON, Okla_One suspect is dead after an over night chase which began in Cache and ended near 24th and Cornell in Lawton.



Comanche County Sheriff Kenny Stradley said a man stole a window air conditioning unit from a home in the 600 block of "C" Avenue in Cache.

The thief then went inside the home and pistol whipped a man. When the suspect came outside, the sheriff said he fired shots at a Cache police officer and got into a van. He drove east into Lawton where police, deputies and several other agencies began chasing him. The chase lasted at least 20 minutes and went through several neighborhoods.

Officers told dispatchers the man jumped out of the car near SW 24th and Cornell. They later reported he had been shot. It's not clear who fired the shots.

The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation is now handling the case. We are still working to get information from authorities on this situation.



We'll continue to bring you new developments as the information comes in.