The San Bernardino County Coroner’s Department on Wednesday identified a man who died after police stunned him with a taser gun in Barstow.

Alex Roman Quintanilla, 22, of Hesperia, died shortly after 2 a.m. Monday following a confrontation with Barstow police and CHP officers on the northbound 15 Freeway, south of Lenwood Road.

A CHP unit responded to a call of a man jumping from his girlfriend’s vehicle on the freeway. Quintanilla’s girlfriend told a dispatcher her boyfriend had jumped from her car while it was moving, was acting violently and running across the freeway, according to the California Highway Patrol.

Barstow police officers also responded to the scene and were allegedly confronted by Quintanilla, who threw rocks at them and then ran across all lanes of the freeway toward the open desert, according to CHP.

The Barstow police officers were joined by two CHP officers, who tried to take Quintanilla into custody on the Lenwood onramp to the southbound 15. Officers stunned Quintanilla with a taser gun or taser guns after he failed to comply with their commands. Quintanilla bit one of the officers on the arm during the fracas, the news release said.

As the officers subdued Quintanilla and were putting handcuffs on him they noticed he wasn’t breathing and had no pulse. The officers attempted CPR without success, according to a CHP news release.

Quintanilla was taken to Barstow Community Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

It was unclear why Quintanilla was behaving the way he was or if he was under the influence of illegal drugs, medication or had a pre-existing health condition that explained his death.

“We don’t know if he was under the influence of drugs or medication. We don’t know if it was a medical issue. Until the coroner completes the autopsy, we’re not going to comment,” CHP Officer Mario Lopez said.

It was also unclear how many of the officers stunned Quintanilla with their Taser guns and how many times Quintanilla was stunned. Lopez said all of the officers involved in the incident will have to be interviewed and the data downloaded from their taser guns before that information can be ascertained.

“At this point I do not have that answer,” Lopez said.

The San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department is investigating the death.

Quintanilla had family residing in Barstow, said Sandy Fatland, spokeswoman for the Coroner’s Office.

Reach Joe via email, call him at 909-386-3874, or find him on Twitter @SBCountyNow.