

KILLED BY POLICE: Charles Murry Jr. suspected of killing one and wounding another in burglary.

The Little Rock police today identified the man killed and another seriously wounded during a burglary about midday Tuesday at 204 Thayer Street.

Advertisement

Gyorgy Posan, 28, who was identified as a resident of the house, was killed by an intruder, police say. A friend, Gabar Felszeghy, 25, who lives in an apartment on Kavanaugh Boulevard, was wounded by the burglar and remained in critical condition Wednesday at St. Vincent Infirmary.

Police Sgt. Cassandra Davis said the two men were friends of the homeowner, Reggie Marshall. They were responding to a neighbor’s report that a burglary was in progress and walked in on it. Marshall was en route to the scene after police were notified that a man had been seen leaving a green Honda and climbing over the back fence of the house. Police later found a back door had been forced open. According to the Democrat-Gazette, Posan was Marshall’s partner and Marshall had told him not to enter the house.

Advertisement

When officer Terry McDaniel, 24, arrived, he saw a man fleeing. When he ordered him to stop, the man pointed a revolver at him and McDaniel opened fire. He was brought down by multiple gunshots and was pronounced dead later at UAMS. Identified as Charles McMurry, 19, he had a previous history of burglary and theft charges. To clear up a point on those charges: Prosecutor Larry Jegley said his record search turned up only one conviction on Murry’s record, a burglary and a theft charge from a February home burglary on Midland Avenue. He was caught after selling a stolen iPad, Nintendo and games to a resale shop, which kept a record of who’d sold the goods. He spent 53 days in jail and then entered a plea deal for what was his first criminal offense. He got a three-year probationary sentence, a $1,500 fine and agreed to make restitution, which Jegley said was a sentence that followed sentencing guidelines.

Officers encountered the wounded man outside the house and he told them his friend inside had also been shot by an intruder.

Advertisement

Here are the police reports.

The first is on the two victims.

The second is on the shooting of the burglary suspect Murry.