Nancy Rineman

SEABROOK — Town Manager Barry Brenner has been placed on paid administrative leave by a divided Board of Selectmen.

Selectman Chairman Brendan Kelly said selectmen voted on the move in a nonpublic meeting Wednesday, May 30. “It was not a unanimous decision,” he said.

Kelly said he voted in support of Brenner, while Selectmen Aboul Khan and Edward Hess voted to place Brenner on leave due to job performance issues.

Khan and Hess both declined to comment on the reason for their votes because it is a personnel issue.

Brenner has been replaced on a temporary basis by Kelly O'Connor, the executive secretary in the town office.

Kelly said Khan and Hess on Wednesday called a special nonpublic meeting to discuss personnel and Fire Department issues.

Kelly said the results of the town election in March led to Brenner being placed on leave.

“There was a monumental change in the structure of the board as of the last election,” Kelly said.

In March, Hess was elected to fill a seat vacated by Bob Moore, who decided not to run again for selectman after six years on the board.

Kelly was asked for his thoughts on Brenner's job performance.

“Knowing the percentage of things that have gone right compared to the percentage of things that might go wrong, he has a tremendous record,” Kelly said.

“Don't fix it if it's not broken,” Kelly added. “It's a thankless job because you're always going to have someone who is not happy with your performance, just like a selectman.”

Kelly said another nonpublic selectmen's meeting has been scheduled by Hess and Khan at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, June 5. Hess said he could not release any information on the purpose of the meeting.

Attempts to reach Brenner at his Seabrook residence on Friday afternoon were unsuccessful.

Brenner is the second Seabrook official recently to be placed on paid administrative leave. Sewer Superintendent Warner Knowles was placed on paid administrative leave on April 20, one day after police charged him with assaulting one of his part-time employees. Knowles, 67, of 27 Pickens Ave., faces a charge of simple assault and is scheduled to be arraigned on the Class A misdemeanor count June 6 at the 10th Circuit District Court in Seabrook.

Deputy Fire Chief Everett Strangman on Friday officially became the town's interim fire chief. He had been serving the last few weeks as acting fire chief in place of the retiring Jeff Brown, who said he's leaving the position to become a lawyer.

Brenner made the appointment of Strangman to interim chief on Wednesday, the same day Brenner was placed on paid administrative leave.