A man who allegedly shot his ex-girlfriend Saturday afternoon died from a seizure the same day.

After Trevon Miller, 18, was taken into custody, he had a seizure, was taken to Shands at UF and died there.

Hours before, Devin Colson, 18, drove to Miller’s apartment at 2307 SW 32nd Place to retrieve personal belongings. She brought a 15-year-old friend along.

Shortly after Colson entered unit No. 4 inside Southwood Apartments, she and Miller got into a physical fight upstairs, according to Angelina Valuri, Gainesville Police Department spokeswoman.

Colson left the apartment, and Miller’s friend and roommate, Gbati Djeri, told her not to come back.

Before Colson could start her engine, Miller came out of his apartment and began shooting at the car.

Colson and the 15-year-old girl jumped out.

Djeri charged Miller to prevent him from shooting again, but Miller ran away with his gun in hand.

The two got back in the car, and as Colson turned north onto 23rd Street, Miller fired at her car again.

Djeri knocked on neighbors’ doors and told them to call 911. Colson flagged down a police officer.

Colson was shot in the neck, but police said her injuries are non-life threatening. The 15-year-old girl was unhurt.

Gainesville Police Department and Alachua County Sheriff’s Office responded to the scene, and officers marked off perimeters.

Enjoy what you're reading? Get content from The Alligator delivered to your inbox Subscribe Now

Miller remained barricaded inside his apartment for 10 to 15 minutes, firing out of the apartment’s windows.

No police officers were hurt, and they did not shoot back.

Miller then walked outside and gave himself up to police.

After he was handcuffed he began to convulse.

Miller was taken to Shands at UF.

When GPD officers went inside to clear the apartment, they found Miller had turned on the oven full blast and turned on all the faucets so that the apartment was starting to flood. They also found a bottle of sleeping pills by his bed.

“This was a very scary incident for all officers involved,” Valuri said.

The UF Phonebook lists Miller as a Shands at UF employee.

Contact Ben Brasch at bbrasch@alligator.org.