View full size

Neighbors of an

man fatally shot by a

Sunday after authorities say he confronted deputies with a rifle described the man as friendly and quiet and expressed shock about the incident.

Robert Kimball Fox, 52, pointed a "loaded high-power rifle" at deputies and failed to respond to multiple commands to drop the gun, said Sgt. Bob Ray, a sheriff's office spokesman. A sheriff's deputy fired one shot, striking Fox, who was pronounced dead at the scene. The sheriff's office is not releasing where Fox was shot or the type of firearm the deputy used.

Shortly after 3:15 p.m., sheriff's deputies responded to a report of a man, armed with a gun, threatening suicide at his duplex home, in the

, Ray said. Fox reportedly came out of the home with the rifle and into the street, where he confronted four deputies. A deputy opened fire.

The sheriff's office hasn't released the name of the deputy who shot the man. The deputy, Ray said, is on paid administrative leave, a standard procedure after a police shooting, and will be interviewed Tuesday.

The sheriff's office hasn't released information about who reported the original incident or if anyone else was inside the home at the time of the disturbance. The man's wife was at the scene after the shooting, Ray said, but he wasn't sure if she had come from inside the home.

The incident was the first officer-involved shooting in Washington County since

. In March, members of the

in North Portland, while they were helping the Portland Police Bureau.

On Sunday, Marilyn Hedlund, 69, who lives a few houses down from Fox in a duplex home on

, was working in her upstairs office when she heard commotion.

"I heard the police say, 'put down the gun, put down the gun,'" she said. "They were screaming."

Hedlund looked out her window and saw a man pointing a gun toward the deputies, who were standing in the curve in Monte Verdi Boulevard, where the

, she said.

The deputies, she estimated, shouted commands for minutes. Then, she heard one shot. And the man fell.

"...I never thought I'd see anything like that in my life," Hedlund said.

She can't recall what happened next. "I was so shook up at that point," she said.

After the shooting, she called a neighbor and told her to lock her door and stay inside. At some point, Hedlund said, an ambulance arrived at the scene.

Hedlund said authorities used yellow-and-black police tape to block

and along Monte Verdi Boulevard. Deputies, she said, also taped off intermittent areas of the scene, including where the body and gun were located. Investigators flooded the area.

"It was unbelievable," she said. "It was just really unbelievable."

Several neighbors said they didn't know Fox well, but would say hello when they saw him. They described him and his family as quiet and friendly, and said they've lived in their home for multiple years.

On Monday afternoon, several people were gathered at Fox's home, which has two small American flags decorating the yard. A woman who answered the door declined to comment.

Chelsea Haskell, 26, and Henry Condron, 28, have lived across the street from Fox for two years. The couple said they were shocked by the incident.

Haskell and Condron said their neighbor was friendly, always appeared happy and would compliment their yard, which has a bed of red, yellow, orange, purple and blue flowers.

"He was always really nice – he'd wave or give a thumbs up," Condron said.

Carol Hilden, 67, who lives a few houses down from Fox's residence, said she saw the man who was shot Sunday morning. The two exchanged greetings. Hilden said she asked her neighbor how he was doing, and he said, "great."

"This is a tragic event -- the neighborhood is a quiet neighborhood," Hilden said. "I think it impacted all of us."

--