OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE -- Zachari Johnson was trapped.

The 21-year-old had steered his stolen Honda north on a major highway and sped onto Capehart Road, with Sarpy County authorities chasing him the whole way.

Suddenly the Lincoln man found himself at the front door of the Nebraska's seemingly most impenetrable facility.

Johnson had — accidentally, his grandmother says — driven right to the main gate at Offutt Air Force Base, home of the command that oversees the country's nuclear weapons.

Johnson zoomed into a visitor parking lot just outside the gate, circling it once, twice, three times, said Sarpy County Sheriff Jeff Davis.

In front of him: The gate, a line of cars, a heavily armed military base.

Behind him: Two police cruisers with officers trying to arrest him for allegedly stealing the car and a credit card.

Johnson chose to flee, and it ended tragically.

He floored the blue Honda sedan, sped through the “search pit,” a narrow entrance generally used to inspect trucks, and busted his way onto Offutt, according to base officials.

That decision Monday afternoon sparked a wild five-minute chase around one of the country's most important military installations.

Offutt security, sheriff's deputies and Bellevue police officers all tried to stop Johnson as he sped north, then east, then west on the base's roads.

Then an Offutt security guard — a federal civilian employee with police experience — shot and killed Johnson as he attempted to escape through another gate on the locked-down base.

“As you can imagine, this doesn't happen very often,” Davis said Tuesday.

The deadly car chase left these questions:

How did a civilian successfully break onto the base that houses U.S. Strategic Command, which controls the nation's nuclear weapons?

And was Johnson's killing justified under Nebraska law? A Sarpy County grand jury will investigate the death. State law requires a grand jury any time someone dies while in police custody or while authorities are trying to apprehend someone.

Johnson entered the base at 3:27 p.m. Monday, just 11 minutes after a citizen reported a blue Honda driving erratically on Highway 75. A license plate check matched the Honda to one stolen from Lincoln sometime late Sunday or early Monday, Davis said.

Sheriff's deputies attempted to pull Johnson over. Instead, he sped north on Highway 75, reached the Capehart Road exit and turned toward Offutt.

Offutt officials became aware that a police pursuit was heading their way just seconds before the man reached the base's Main Gate, where thousands of cars enter and exit daily, said Brig. Gen. Donald Bacon, commander of the Air Force's 55th Wing, which controls base operations.

The base had the option and ability to use lethal force at the Main Gate, Bacon said, but chose not to because of the split-second nature of the incident as well as the safety of personnel and other drivers clustered at the gate.

It's not surprising that a vehicle could crash onto Offutt Air Force Base. Four cars accidentally “gate crashed” last year — in those instances, the drivers were either lost, confused or drunk, said Ryan Hansen, a spokesman for the 55th Wing.

A car did purposefully crash the gate once before in the past two years, Hansen said.

Offutt employs a tiered defense system that sometimes allows such gate crashers onto the base, Bacon said, so long as they aren't immediately identified as a high-level threat.

High-risk buildings are secured. And the base's gates are locked down, Bacon said, trapping the gate-crasher.

“The gate is not always intended to be a fortress barricade,” he said. “You hope it works the majority of the time, but you have it built so when somebody does penetrate the base, you can respond and be with the intruder the entire time.”

Once on base, Johnson made a beeline toward the Bellevue Gate. Once he realized that gate was closed, he made a U-turn and headed west toward the Kenney Gate, Bacon said.

There, Johnson seemed trapped yet again.

The Kenney Gate also was locked down. Police were still in pursuit. Other security personnel were rushing out to help.

About 3:30 p.m., Johnson began to bang the blue Honda into a barricade, seemingly attempting to ram it so he could escape. An Offutt security guard stood feet from the car and yelled at the man to surrender, Bacon said.

The security guard deemed Johnson a danger to nearby Offutt workers because he was using his car as a weapon, Bacon said.

At 3:32 p.m., the guard fired three shots.

“The gentleman had a chance to surrender, and he refused,” Bacon said of Johnson. “He's using his car to hit objects. ... The security force member perceived the threat to himself and to others.”

A prominent Omaha defense lawyer said it's rare for a criminal suspect to be shot and killed while attempting to flee.

Clarence Mock, a 25-year veteran of the federal courts, said it's particularly rare when someone is fleeing for a nonviolent crime such as auto theft.

Mock said deadly force can be used only if the suspect would cause death or serious bodily harm to someone else if he or she isn't killed.

Davis, the sheriff, could recall only one instance in the past few years when a fleeing suspect was shot at in Sarpy County. Generally, he said, police would shoot at someone involved in a nonviolent crime only if he had steered the car toward officers, putting them in danger, or if the person had reached down to grab a firearm.

Davis declined to comment on whether Johnson was armed.

Johnson's grandmother, Linda Wisehart, said Tuesday that authorities told a family member that he had no weapon. She said she believed Johnson was unfamiliar with that part of the Omaha area and panicked.

Bacon said a new main gate, scheduled to be ready next spring, will help with gate crashing because it will create an S-curve and a subsequent longer bottleneck. Similar gates will eventually be installed at each Offutt entrance.

Then it will be easier for Offutt security to stop a wayward car before it ever gets onto the base. Then it will be less likely that someone like Johnson can speed around the base, pursued by authorities.

World-Herald staff writers Sam Womack and Joe Duggan contributed to this report.