ALLIANCE — A well-liked member of the community lay dead in the home he shared with his son.

And before the day ended, the son lay dead in a downtown pharmacy after an armed standoff in which he drew the blood of two law officers and a hostage.

And the 9,000 residents of this shaken railroad town in the Nebraska Panhandle found themselves searching for answers Wednesday.

Explanations remained elusive on what led Andres Gonzalez, 27, down a path that produced so much bloodshed and ended with his own death following a gunfire exchange with members of the Nebraska State Patrol's SWAT team.

Others chose to recall Larry Gonzalez, 62, father of the gunman. Authorities did not disclose the cause of his death.

Larry Gonzalez was a railroad conductor who was friendly and generous with his time, said his next-door neighbor, Shawn Kinsella.

“A really good guy,” Kinsella said. “If I needed anything, he'd help me out with it.”

Kinsella and other neighbors said Andres Gonzalez and his girlfriend lived with his father in the modest home with the single-car garage and a Ron Paul sign in the yard. None of the neighbors said they had ever seen or heard the two argue.

And there was relief that hostage Charles Lierk escaped with his life, and deep gratitude for the law officers who risked their lives to protect business owners, employees and customers who found themselves in the line of fire.

Some wrestled with how their community had changed in 24 hours.

“It just kind of turns the town on its head,” said Steph Mantooth, who owns a photography studio about a block from Thiele Pharmacy and Gifts, where the standoff occurred. “People find it so unbelievable,” she said.

Ray Hielscher, franchise owner of a Radio Shack across the street from the pharmacy, told The World-Herald that he witnessed the final moments of the standoff from his store window.

He said four SWAT team members stormed a building adjoining the pharmacy after throwing what appeared to be two explosive devices inside. That building, which houses a workforce development office, is connected to the pharmacy via a hallway. The State Patrol would not comment on the details of the final confrontation, including Andres Gonzalez's whereabouts inside.

City Manager J.D. Cox said SWAT members and the gunman exchanged 30 to 40 rounds, some of which struck a bank on the opposite side of the normally busy section of Highway 2 that runs through town as Third Street.

Deb Collins, spokeswoman for the State Patrol, said a grand jury will be called to investigate because Andres Gonzalez died during the SWAT team operation. She said Gonzalez was armed with an assault rifle and handgun.

The Box Butte County Attorney's Office has scheduled autopsies for both father and son.

In Alliance, most people knew Andres Gonzalez by the nickname “Andy.” He had a reputation for abusing drugs. He reportedly demanded drugs when he stormed into the pharmacy Tuesday.

Despite that reputation, Gonzalez had only one drug-related conviction on his record, for possession of drug paraphernalia in 2000. His five other convictions were misdemeanors involving traffic offenses, drinking as a minor and obstructing a police officer.

Johnathan Matula said he worked with Gonzalez briefly about 10 years ago at a fast food restaurant and would chat with him when they bumped into each other.

A friend of Gonzalez said in a social network post that when Gonzalez was in school, he was teased by other students because of his weight. She said he was generally regarded an outcast.

Many residents focused their concern on Alliance Police Officer Kirk Felker, 43, and Nebraska State Trooper Tim Flick, 37. Felker was wounded in an exchange of gunfire. Flick suffered gunshot wounds to his left side. Many stopped to sign banners for the officers and their colleagues who participated in the standoff. They also wrote well-wishes to Lierk.

“Our thoughts and prayers are with Trooper Flick, Officers Felker ... and Mr. Lierk, as well as all of the individuals touched by the tragic events,” said Col. David Sankey, superintendent of the State Patrol.

Meanwhile, investigators continued to collect evidence from the pharmacy and adjacent building. At one point, they could be seen bagging a handgun, boxes of ammunition clips and a cellphone.

By Wednesday night, most barricades and crime scene tape had been removed. Regular traffic flow had resumed on Highway 2.

“It will help us get back to normal,” Cox said.