SAN CLEMENTE – The driver of a Saturn died after crashing into a truck during a pursuit early Wednesday morning.

The driver and passenger inside the vehicle briefly eluded a deputy who tried to pull over the vehicle after it was seen speeding, Orange County Sheriff’s Department officials said. The crash is under investigation, but officials said the passenger of the vehicle was wanted on an outstanding warrant, and both were on probation when the chase began.

About 2:30 a.m., a sheriff’s deputy saw a four-door Saturn traveling at a high rate of speed on Avenida Palizada in San Clemente, California Highway Patrol officer Chris Goodwin said.

The deputy attempted to catch up to the Saturn as the driver headed toward the I-5, Goodwin said. When the Saturn entered the northbound I-5, the deputy followed but was unable to get close enough and did not turn on his sirens.

The driver of the Saturn then exited the freeway and headed east on Avenida Pico at a high rate of speed while the deputy tried to catch up. The deputy did not get close enough to initiate a stop, Goodwin said.

The deputy lost sight of the vehicle at the intersection of Avenida Pico and Avenue Vista Hermosa.

According to authorities, the deputy began searching the area, turned onto Avenue Vista Hermosa and saw the Saturn with its headlights off. The driver of the Saturn then pulled out of a parking lot on Avenue Vista Hermosa, headed south and made a U-turn.

The deputy then made a U-turn and turned on his emergency lights and sirens, Goodwin said.

The driver of the Saturn accelerated away from the deputy into the intersection of Avenue Vista Hermosa and Avenida Pico against a red light and struck a commercial truck, Goodwin said.

The driver was identified by the Sheriff’s Department as Christopher Dorais Kline, 30, of San Clemente.

Kline was ejected from the Saturn and pronounced dead at the scene. The passenger was taken to Mission Hospital with major injuries.

It was not immediately clear why the men refused to stop, but authorities said Kline had been released from state prison 16 months earlier and was on probation at the time.

The passenger, who has not been identified, was also on probation and had an active warrant for his arrest, said Jim Amormino, a spokesman for the department.

The two people in the truck were taken to San Clemente Hospital with minor to moderate injuries.

The CHP and the Sheriff’s Department are investigating the pursuit and crash.

Contact the writer: amolina@ocregister.com or