Oscar Sermeno, a 61-year-old Latino, was shot and killed by police Thursday, June 14, near Burbank Boulevard and Morella Avenue in Valley Village, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

Officers responded to a call regarding an “assault with a deadly weapon, shots fired” about 4:15 p.m., according to an LAPD news release. Two people had been struck by gunfire, officials said.

When authorities arrived, they learned Gerardo Ortega, a 19-year-old Latino, was doing construction work with his father when he went to his car to retrieve some tools.

While there, Ortega was confronted by Sermeno. The two got into a fight and Sermeno shot Ortega, authorities said.

Ortega's father, Gerardo Ortega Padilla, a 41-year-old Latino, came out and also got into a fight with Sermeno. During their confrontation, Ortega Padilla was also shot by Sermeno, authorities said.

Sermeno also shot at a third man but he was not hit. The alleged shooter then drove away in his car.

When paramedics arrived, Ortega was pronounced dead at the scene. His father was taken to a hospital where he later died.

After the shootings, police were able to track down Sermeno on the 170 Freeway. A pursuit ended at the Burbank Avenue off ramp.

Sermeno exited the car but failed to comply with officers' orders, police said. He instead went back into the car and pulled out what appeared to be a gun, authorities said.

At that point, an officer-involved shooting occurred. Paramedics were called and Sermeno was pronounced dead at the scene. No officers were hurt during the shooting.

Authorities said they recovered a handgun from inside the car.

After the shooting, the LAPD Force Investigation Division responded to the incident . They will conduct an investigation of the officer-involved shooting.

Anyone with additional information about the shootings is asked to call the Force Investigation Division at (213) 486-5230. Those wishing to remain anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477.

-- Los Angeles Times