UPDATED at 9:30 a.m. Thursday with identity of dead man.

BELLEVILLE • The teenager shot and killed by Belleville police after a disturbance at a bar Wednesday morning has been identified as Eric Gonzales, 19.

Gonzales used to live in St. Louis and recently moved to Belleville. An autopsy was planned for Thursday, according to the St. Clair County coroner's office. Toxicology tests are pending.

Gonzales was shot after police were called to Foley's Tavern in the 7700 block of West Main Street at 10 a.m. Wednesday. A bar employee and a patron said that two men confronted a worker who was at the bar to repair a window that had been broken in an overnight burglary.

It's not clear why the men confronted the glass worker, but the worker came in the bar and asked that someone call police, said Chris Douglas, who was having a cup of coffee at Foley's on Wednesday morning. The men then threw a bucket through the broken window. One of them had what looked like a knife, Douglas, 61, said.

The men were also reportedly running in and out of traffic on West Main Street and kicking cars, according to police.

Police arrived and chased the two men. One of the men, later identified as Gonzales, threatened the officers, Illinois State Police Capt. Jim Morrisey said. One of the officers shot Gonzales, who died later at a hospital.

Morrisey did not immediately give more detail on the threat against the officer, but police recovered a multi-tool with a blade at the scene.

No officers were injured. The second suspect, 34, was not injured but was taken to a hospital for evaluation, Morrisey said. Police said he appeared to be "heavily intoxicated by alcohol and/or drugs."

Douglas, the bar patron, said he didn't see the shooting but said he thought the men were acting crazy.

"They belong being locked up somewhere," he said. "They were just nuts. They shouldn't be out on the streets terrorizing people."

The officer who fired is 33 and has been on the force since 2004.

Shannon Simmons, a relative of Gonzales, said the family did not want to speak to a reporter.

Kim Bell of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

EDITOR'S NOTE: An earlier version of this story had an incorrect spelling of Morrisey's last name. This version has been updated.