IONIA, MI - Police today identified Cory James Ryan, 41, of the Ionia area as the man fatally shot by an Ionia sheriff's deputy after an exchange of gunfire Friday morning.

Ionia Public Safety officers arrived in the 900 block of West Main Street just after 10:30 a.m. Friday to check on Ryan's welfare. His parents had called from Arizona with worries about their son.

Soon after, Ryan stepped out of a nearby home and shot two men standing on a porch across the street, police said.

According to Ionia Sheriff Dwain Dennis, sheriff's deputies arrived to assist and found Ryan walking eastbound on West Main Street with his gun in a ready position. When police told him to put the gun down, his first response was to shoot one round at a deputy.

The deputy then fired back, killing Ryan, Dennis said. The deputy was not injured.

Ionia Undersheriff Dale Miller on Monday said Ryan had been living in the Ionia County area for some time. He was most recently staying at a house his parents owned on West Main Street in the city.

Ionia authorities first had contact with him in 2008 when Ryan was the victim of a larceny, Miller said.

Police are continuing to investigate what led to Ryan's erratic behavior on Friday.

Miller said authorities have reviewed video footage which shows Ryan stopped by the Ionia sheriff's department around 8 a.m. Friday asking for help "because his family had been abducted by the Mexican Mafia."

"Before we could get anyone to make contact, he left," Miller said. "We had no idea who he was at that point."

The Ionia Department of Public Safety is investigating the initial shooting where the two men were injured on a West Main Street porch.

One of the men, Cody Philips, is recovering from more than 80 wounds from pellets that struck him.

The Michigan State Police are leading an investigation into the death of Ryan and the fatal shot fired by the sheriff's deputy.

The deputy is a 15-year veteran of the department, Miller said, "a respected officer" and a highly-trained member of the department's tactical team. The deputy's name is not being released at this time.