Fort Worth, Texas, police say they do not know what led to a confrontation between a Bismarck, N.D., man and a man staying in a hotel in the Texas town. And since Derek Ternes died and the man he shot is in critical condition, the answers aren’t likely to come easily.

“We may never know,” Fort Worth Police Sgt. Pedro Criado said.

Ternes, 34 of Bismarck, died early Tuesday morning. Criado said Ternes fired a shot at uniformed officers, who returned fire, killing Ternes.

What officers have learned is that Ternes went to the Fort Worth hotel room of a man with whom he had been acquainted for approximately 2 weeks at 4 a.m. Tuesday. Ternes walked, without permission, into the hotel room, where the other man’s girlfriend and two sons were, took a laptop and walked out.

Criado said police believe Ternes and the other man got into a confrontation in the parking lot, during which shots were exchanged. The other man was shot and remains in critical condition. The other man’s girlfriend and a hotel manager called 911.

“We were fortunate that we had officers close by,” Criado said.

The officers saw Ternes walking west through a parking lot with a gun in his hand. They gave him verbal commands to drop the gun. Criado said Ternes raised his gun and fired at the officers. The officers returned fire, striking Ternes, who died at the scene.

The incident remains under investigation, Criado said. The officer who shot Ternes is on administrative leave, as is common in such situations.

Criado did not know what Ternes was doing in Fort Worth, how he was acquainted with the man he is alleged to have shot or the subject of their fight. Criado told The Associated Press that the license plate on Ternes’ vehicle linked the Bismarck man to a previous threat to get into a shootout with police.

“It’s just difficult to determine what occurred outside,” Criado said. “There are only two people who know, and one is deceased and one is in critical condition.”

According to a family member, Ternes, the former owner of Optimum Fitness, had been working for a general contractor in Bismarck. He went to Fort Worth a month ago. He is survived by his parents, of Bismarck, a 6-year-old daughter and a brother.