A deputy shot and killed an armed man while serving a search warrant in DeLeon Springs early Thursday, according to the Volusia County Sheriff's Office.The shooting happened inside a home on State Road 11 after the Sheriff's Office's SWAT team and patrol deputies surrounded it to execute a court-ordered search warrant before 6 a.m. Deputies said the warrant was part of their investigation into a property theft ring. Officials said they found all kinds of stolen property, including dental equipment, at the home.SWAT officers went into the home and were confronted by Ross Lambert, 29, who was armed with a rifle, according to the Sheriff's Office.Investigators said Lambert refused orders to put the weapon down, and SWAT deputy Benyamin Yisrael fired three shots."My deputy did exactly what he had to do. If he had not fired, I'm afraid I would have lost a deputy. He did the right thing. He did what he was trained to do. He shot and stopped the threat," said Volusia County Sheriff Ben Johnson.One of the shots hit Lambert. He was pronounced dead at the scene.Yisrael was placed on administrative leave, per procedure, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement was called to investigate.Authorities said Lambert did not have a criminal history but was connected to others who do have criminal histories.Several weapons, including a rifle, were also found in the home.Thursday's death is the first fatal shooting involving a Volusia County deputy in nearly six years, according to the Sheriff's office.

A deputy shot and killed an armed man while serving a search warrant in DeLeon Springs early Thursday, according to the Volusia County Sheriff's Office.

The shooting happened inside a home on State Road 11 after the Sheriff's Office's SWAT team and patrol deputies surrounded it to execute a court-ordered search warrant before 6 a.m.

Advertisement

Deputies said the warrant was part of their investigation into a property theft ring. Officials said they found all kinds of stolen property, including dental equipment, at the home.

SWAT officers went into the home and were confronted by Ross Lambert, 29, who was armed with a rifle, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Investigators said Lambert refused orders to put the weapon down, and SWAT deputy Benyamin Yisrael fired three shots.

"My deputy did exactly what he had to do. If he had not fired, I'm afraid I would have lost a deputy. He did the right thing. He did what he was trained to do. He shot and stopped the threat," said Volusia County Sheriff Ben Johnson.

One of the shots hit Lambert. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Yisrael was placed on administrative leave, per procedure, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement was called to investigate.

Authorities said Lambert did not have a criminal history but was connected to others who do have criminal histories.

Several weapons, including a rifle, were also found in the home.

Thursday's death is the first fatal shooting involving a Volusia County deputy in nearly six years, according to the Sheriff's office.