ANTIOCH — As police continued to investigate an officer-involved shooting that they say started when a distraught Denny Gonzales fired at them, mournful friends and family of the well-liked barber were left in disbelief Friday.

Many around the International Barber Shop and Hair Salon on Lone Tree Way, where Gonzales worked, were in shock Friday. A steady line of regulars and walk-up customers were turned away, some floored by the news of what had happened.

It got to be too much for workers at the shop, who eventually locked the doors.

“It’s all just so unreal,” said hairstylist Chanel Brown, adding she felt “detached” from everything.

Described as kindhearted and somewhat solemn, yet outgoing, Gonzales, 35, was known for his affinity for athletic shoes and hats, wearing a backpack, driving his yellow Corvette and giving a haircut that made you want to come back.

“There’s nobody else you’d want to have on your head after Denny had been there,” weekly customer Marques Gaines said. “He’s the best barber in the Bay Area.”

But friends said his best attribute was his heart.

Gonzales regularly volunteered to cut hair at a local child care center and donated his old Nikes — he has more than 100 pairs — to his mother’s home country of Indonesia or needy local children, hairstylist and friend Tonya Long said. Friend Ericka Jones said Gonzales gave her 13-year-old son a job sweeping the floor of the store to earn extra money.

Gaines said Gonzales always was quick to offer advice, help with job networking, and always offered food if it was in the shop, or a place to sleep.

Gonzales, who previously co-owned a barber shop with the same name on Rossi Avenue, had been planning to move his family into a one-story house this weekend to make things easier on his pregnant wife, Jones said.

“What happened just sounds so out-of-character for him,” Long said.

Added Grimes: “It seems real far-fetched.”

Around 4 p.m. Thursday, Antioch police said a distraught Gonzales called them from his home in the 4800 block of Lefebvre Way repeatedly, telling them he was going to kill himself, kill a police officer or that he had already killed an officer.

Police set up a several-block perimeter around the neighborhood, and the SWAT team was called in.

When officers, accompanied by a hostage negotiator, responded to the home, Gonzales came out of his garage holding a gun, which made the situation escalate quickly, Capt. Leonard Orman said.

Police told Gonzales to put the weapon down, but he fired at least one round at them, and officers fired back, according to police.

“It was a very fluid situation,” Orman said.

Seven officers with different vantage points of Gonzales opened fire when he came out holding the gun because of the perceived threat, Orman said.

No officers were injured.

Police continue to investigate the scene, as well as whether Gonzales had a medical situation or mental issues that factored into his decision-making.

The district attorney’s office and Brentwood and Pittsburg police assisted in the investigation early Friday morning.

Contact Paul Burgarino at 925-779-7164. Sean Maher and Rick Hurd contributed to this report.