The Houston County District Attorney called the fatal Dothan police-involved shooting of a 22-year-old man earlier this year justified after a grand jury recently returned no indictment regarding his death.

District Attorney Doug Valeska said the grand jury had completed its review after hearing testimony from over a dozen witnesses into the circumstances surrounding the death of Christopher Jerome Thomas on June 28.

“The grand jury made a decision on the facts outside the presence of the DA. The grand jury looked at all options in whether law enforcement was justified in using deadly force,” Valeska said. “They did not indict. We all regret the death of Christopher Thomas. He’s a human being in this community. All he had to do was stop.”

Valeska said officials took members of the grand jury to the scene of the shooting at a parking lot for a strip shopping center inside Ross Clark Circle on Montgomery Highway.

Valeska played the video from the officer’s patrol car for a Dothan Eagle reporter, but declined to release a copy of it, citing an ongoing investigation surrounding the evidence presented to the grand jury.

He said the video depicts a vehicle pursuit, which started between a marked patrol K-9 vehicle and a white Ford Explorer driven by Thomas. He said the pursuit spanned 12 blocks, starting on Blackshear Street and ending in the strip shopping center parking lot on Montgomery Highway just after speeds peaked at 62 mph through a residential neighborhood.

Valeska said just before police thought the chase was over in the parking lot they saw the driver of the vehicle put it in reverse, striking another vehicle. He said the officer proceeded to tell the driver to stop his vehicle, firing his weapon after fearing for his life.

“Regretfully the actual shooting was not on tape because of the angle,” Valeska said.

On the video it could be heard that police thought they were chasing someone else. Valeska said video showed Thomas drove through more than five stop signs during the pursuit.

“The DA has repeatedly told people to stop and not to flee from the police,” Valeska said. “Only bad things can happen. He created a grave risk and danger to other people by driving at a high rate of speed.”

Valeska said a certified Dothan police officer fired his gun five times during the shooting, striking Thomas all five times. He released a copy of the autopsy to the Dothan Eagle, which showed Thomas suffered multiple gunshot wounds, including two to the left side of the neck and three to the chest.

Valeska said police found Thomas holding a bag, which contained five smaller bags of marijuana, after the shooting. He also said Thomas had marijuana in his body at the time of his death. He said no weapon was found on Thomas’ person or in the vehicle.

“This is not TV land. You don’t shoot out tires,” Valeska said. “If the defendant had stopped he’d be alive today.”

Catherine Thomas, Christopher Thomas’ mother, declined to comment, and referred all comments to the family spokesperson, Kenneth Glasgow.

“I think the family is going to feel that there has been a grave injustice because all of the witnesses that came out saw something contrary to the decision of a no bill or indictment,” Glasgow said.

Glasgow questioned the probable cause and reason for the traffic stop that initiated the pursuit. He said the findings of marijuana inside the vehicle are irrelevant to whether the shooting was justified, and only came after the fact.

“When something like this happens, all of us lose. A mother loses her son, the community loses a classmate and a friend and the police department loses its cohesion with the community,” Glasgow said. “No one wins in a situation like this.”

Glasgow said other witnesses did not come forward out of fear of being arrested for perjury.

“I think the family is also looking at the fact that people were arrested for perjury who were telling the truth,” Glasgow said.

Glasgow said there will be a press conference Friday at attorney Mark Overall’s office. The press conference will include information on a complaint filed by Overall regarding actions during the grand jury.