A standoff with a suspect who opened fire on deputies just east of Turlock ended after the man was found dead from gunshot wounds inside the home, deputies said.The Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department determined that the suspect was stuck and killed by gunfire from a deputy.Sheriff's officials had speculated that 43-year-old William Nazar had taken his own life after allegedly opening fire at deputies on Wednesday outside a house near Turlock.The deputies were responding to a call about an armed and suicidal person.Multiple agencies surrounded the home where Nazar was believed to be barricaded, armed with several weapons, the Stanislaus deputies said.At some point, a person inside and authorities exchanged gunfire.The incident started when authorities responded to reports indicating that Nazar was armed and acting erratically, deputies said.Sheriff's officials say Deputy Steve Gerhardt returned fire, striking Nazar.SWAT teams later discovered Nazar dead.Sheriff's spokesman Royjindar Singh says Gerhardt has been placed on paid administrative leave while authorities investigate the shooting.The man's wife and sons were inside the home when deputies arrived, but they were able to leave the home. They are now at the Sheriff's Department. No other injuries were reported in the shooting.

A standoff with a suspect who opened fire on deputies just east of Turlock ended after the man was found dead from gunshot wounds inside the home, deputies said.

Advertisement

The Stanislaus County Sheriff's Department determined that the suspect was stuck and killed by gunfire from a deputy.

Sheriff's officials had speculated that 43-year-old William Nazar had taken his own life after allegedly opening fire at deputies on Wednesday outside a house near Turlock.



The deputies were responding to a call about an armed and suicidal person.

Multiple agencies surrounded the home where Nazar was believed to be barricaded, armed with several weapons, the Stanislaus deputies said.

At some point, a person inside and authorities exchanged gunfire.

The incident started when authorities responded to reports indicating that Nazar was armed and acting erratically, deputies said.

Sheriff's officials say Deputy Steve Gerhardt returned fire, striking Nazar.



SWAT teams later discovered Nazar dead.



Sheriff's spokesman Royjindar Singh says Gerhardt has been placed on paid administrative leave while authorities investigate the shooting.

The man's wife and sons were inside the home when deputies arrived, but they were able to leave the home. They are now at the Sheriff's Department.

No other injuries were reported in the shooting.