A federal jury has awarded $2 million in a wrongful death suit involving the Marion County Sheriff's Office.

Two deputies shot and killed a man two years ago, and this video was a key piece of evidence.



The deputies involved were cleared criminally by a grand jury and FDLE investigation.



But jurors blamed the Sheriff’s office for some of its policies and not conducting its own investigation.



This is the video that jurors watched during a two week trial and again in more than six hours of deliberation before finding fault with both deputies actions in the shooting and use of a stun gun on Joshua Salvato.



Deputies were called to Summerfield in 2012 when witnesses said he was walking along the street acting strangely.



Once Deputy Norman Brown arrived for backup of Deputy Lauren Miley, he started swinging at the officers, seconds later Miley shot him.



"We believe that Deputy Miley acted reasonably in what she did and how she did it under the circumstances but ultimately it’s not our opinion it’s theirs," said defense attorney Walter Ketcham.

Jurors found she acted with deadly force that was unreasonable to protect them from great bodily harm. They awarded Salvato’s family more than $2.25 million.



They cleared Brown in the death, but said the fact he used his stun gun on Salvato a dozen times after he was shot was both objectionable, and malicious.

“Joshua has finally gotten justice; the emotions are overwhelming,” Said Vincent Salvato, plaintiff.



“It’s important that officers take an oath to protect and preserve not only the safety of community but the trust of community,” added Ted Leopold, the plaintiff's attorney.



The only credit Salvato’s dad gives to the Sheriff’s Office was for having the video that showed how his son died.



“They should be employed in all police cars, back front and side whatever it might cost the price of it is nothing in comparison to truth and without that video there would have been no truth,” said Vincent Salvato.



