Fairfax County police shot and killed a man late Sunday night in the third police-involved shooting in the D.C. area in five days, two of which have been fatal.

It was the third police-involved shooting in Fairfax this year.

Fairfax police said the latest shooting occurred after police saw two men acting suspiciously near Frye Road and Madge Lane in Mount Vernon at 11:20 p.m. Sunday.

"Based on their knowledge, training and experience, [the officers] felt something was amiss," Fairfax police spokesman Don Gotthardt said.

As the officers approached, one of the men, 21-year-old Nicholas Allen Kaelber, of Woodbridge, ran. When pursuing officers caught Kaelber, he pulled a gun and fired several shots at the officers, police said. An officer returned fire and hit Kaelber, who was later pronounced dead at a local hospital, police said.

Kaelber's companion fled the scene on foot. Neither of the officers were hurt, police said.

The officers involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave as police investigate the incident.

In Montgomery County last Wednesday, police fatally shot Fritz Otto Naeker, 63, inside a Sandy Spring restaurant. Naeker had been carrying a gun and, police said, ignored their command to drop it. Naeker was wounded, but later died at the hospital.

Prince George's County police last Thursday shot and seriously injured Andre McKoy, 21, who allegedly shot at police after smoking PCP, police said. McKoy engaged in a brief gun battle with police before taking his pants off and driving a police car into a wall in College Park, police said. Police shot and Tasered McKoy several times but were unable to subdue him until he crashed the police car, police said.

McKoy has since been charged with attempted second-degree murder of a police officer, first degree assault, second degree assault, use of a firearm in commission of a felony, malicious destruction of property over $500 and theft over $10,000, according to P.G. police.

Anyone with information on the Fairfax shooting can call Crime Solvers at 866-411-TIPS (8477), send an email at fairfaxcrimesolvers.org, send a text message reading "TIP187" plus a message to 274637 or call Fairfax County police at 703-691-2131.

awhelan@washingtonexaminer.com