Stockton officers and a SWAT team have detained several men in a neighborhood near Monte Diablo Avenue.Just after midnight, officers said they were forced to fire shots at a van after the occupants were shooting into patrol cars during a chase.One man was killed, a second was shot and taken to a hospital and a third was arrested, police said Thursday.Joseph Brooks, 27, was identified as the man who was killed. Police said that was a parolee at large.It all started when officers were responding to reports of armed men in a van shooting at a car near Hammer Lane and I-5.Officers began chasing the van on the freeway.The van exited the freeway on Monte Diable Avenue and that's when investigators said the men fired shots at officers in several patrol cars.Officers returned fire, killing one man, and injuring another.Darold Jarvis, 24, was shot and taken to an area hospital, police said. Darance Lead, 19, was arrested in connection with the shooting.The Stockton Police Department said that the three men are documented gang members. Investigators have recovered an assault rifle and two handguns.Stockton police also responded to a call of a woman shot at 11:30 p.m. Wednesday.She is expected to be OK.They are looking to see if the men in the van are connected to that shooting.

Stockton officers and a SWAT team have detained several men in a neighborhood near Monte Diablo Avenue.

Advertisement

Just after midnight, officers said they were forced to fire shots at a van after the occupants were shooting into patrol cars during a chase.

One man was killed, a second was shot and taken to a hospital and a third was arrested, police said Thursday.

Joseph Brooks, 27, was identified as the man who was killed. Police said that was a parolee at large.

It all started when officers were responding to reports of armed men in a van shooting at a car near Hammer Lane and I-5.

Officers began chasing the van on the freeway.

The van exited the freeway on Monte Diable Avenue and that's when investigators said the men fired shots at officers in several patrol cars.

Officers returned fire, killing one man, and injuring another.

Darold Jarvis, 24, was shot and taken to an area hospital, police said. Darance Lead, 19, was arrested in connection with the shooting.

The Stockton Police Department said that the three men are documented gang members.

Investigators have recovered an assault rifle and two handguns.

Stockton police also responded to a call of a woman shot at 11:30 p.m. Wednesday.

She is expected to be OK.

They are looking to see if the men in the van are connected to that shooting.