HARTFORD — The city of Hartford and the estate of a man who was fatally injured when his car was struck by a police car speeding to assist other officers have reached a $2.9 million settlement.

Lawyers representing the city settled the case with the estate of Anthony Mansfield, 50, in January, just as the case was about to go to trial. The settlement wasn’t revealed until Monday by Keith Trantolo, the lawyer who represented Mansfield’s estate.

Mansfield was fatally injured when a Ford Crown Victoria police car driven by Officer Taikwon Dudley crashed into his Chevy Cavalier at Woodland Street and Albany Avenue about 12:45 a.m. July 13, 2012. Mansfield died seven days later at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center.

Dudley was rushing to assist officers involved in the pursuit of an armed suspect who had sped away from a traffic stop. Police said Dudley was driving 57 mph on Woodland Street and went through a red traffic light when he struck Mansfield’s car. An investigation found that Dudley turned on his lights and siren seconds before the crash and witnesses told police they did not see Dudley brake for the intersection.

Hartford police found Dudley liable for the crash and in October 2012 charged him with negligent homicide with a motor vehicle, reckless driving, traveling unreasonably fast and failure to obey a traffic signal.

Dudley was acquitted of all charges after a trial at Superior Court in New Britain in May 2015. The case was transferred to the New Britain Judicial District to avoid a conflict since Hartford police work regularly with prosecutors in the Hartford Judicial District.

Hartford police Chief James Rovella and Dudley, through his lawyer Kevin Smith of New Haven, expressed their condolences to Mansfield’s family. Dudley “remains terribly sorry for this tragic accident,” Smith said after the verdict. Dudley remains a Hartford police officer.

Trantolo said Mansfield was the father of two daughters and the grandfather of two young boys. Trantolo could not be reached for further comment Monday.

Hartford Corporation Counsel Howard Rifkin said settling the case was in the best interest of the city.

“This was a tragic 2012 accident and facts would not have been favorable for the City of Hartford, if it had been brought to trial,” Rifkin said. “The settlement was in the city’s best interest, and the city’s insurance company, which was responsible for most of the cost, agreed that the settlement was prudent.”

Of the $2.9 million settlement, about $450,000 came from city coffers. The remainder was paid by Travelers.