Jim Schoettler

POMONA PARK - Jacob Mullins and his dad dashed from their front door as gunshots erupted across the narrow road in this Putnam County hamlet.

They stopped at the edge of their property after spotting a man lying face down in his yard 50 feet away. Mullins saw three deputies, guns drawn, standing over the lifeless body. One reached down to touch him.

"All right, Alfred, we're going to roll you over now," he said.

Veteran deputy Raymond Strickland had just repeatedly shot an unarmed, mentally ill Alfred Dobson Jr., 35. A half-hour earlier, Dobson's cousin frantically told a 911 dispatcher that Dobson was acting crazy and threatened to molest her daughter.

The deputies dispatched to the July 19 call south of Palatka found Dobson mumbling incoherently when they arrived shortly after 9 p.m. Deputy Shannon Depew noted in his report that Dobson seemed to be praying at one point.

Listen: 911 caller asks law enforcement to remove Dobson

"Alfred placed his hands together and would look towards the sky and look back at me," Depew wrote. "Alfred did this several times."

Dobson walked willingly to a patrol car, but refused Strickland's command to put his hands on it and began walking back to the house. Deputy Matt Jones tried to stop him, but said Dobson began striking his head. Jones fired his Taser, but Dobson continued fighting and fell on top of Jones, who got his foot stuck under a fence, his report said.

Strickland whacked Dobson with a baton, leading Dobson to turn and fight back, Strickland said. Depew fired his Taser, but said he drew only a stare. Strickland said Dobson began striking him as he backed away and fired at least six shots while still under attack.

After rolling the dying man over, Jones began thumping his chest to keep him breathing. A rescue crew ripped off Dobson's black shirt, took more life-saving steps and headed to Putnam Community Medical Center.

Dobson died at the hospital 40 minutes later. His death certificate gave the cause as multiple gunshots.

Previous calls

Police had responded to other trouble involving Dobson at his aunt's rickety mobile home on Old Welaka Road, but he had never turned violent toward them. On the July 19 call, the 911 dispatcher noted he suffered from schizophrenia and the deputies planned to commit him under the state's Baker Act, Strickland wrote.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating whether any laws were broken and Putnam Sheriff Jeff Hardy promises a thorough internal review. Hardy put Strickland back to work four days after the shooting, saying it appears the deputies followed procedure by using all possible means of non-lethal force to protect themselves and those at the home.

"I do believe that they believed it was absolutely necessary to use deadly force," Hardy said.

How many times Strickland shot Dobson and whether Dobson used alcohol or drugs won't be known until FDLE's case is made public. Dobson complained to friends as recently as the day of his death about having trouble adjusting to new medication.

Some friends and family said they don't understand why the deputies couldn't overpower the man, who stood about 6-feet-1 and weighed 175 pounds. Strickland and Jones were about the same height as Dobson and weighed 225 pounds each, while Depew stood slightly shorter and weighed 200 pounds.

"The way it happened is just tearing me up," said Mullins, 20.

Witnesses differ as to whether they believe the shooting was justified.

Rick Alexander, the boyfriend of Dobson's aunt, said he was standing only a few yards away when he saw the shooting. Alexander insisted Dobson had his arms at his side when Strickland shot him.

"They didn't have no reason to do it," said Alexander, 51.

But Strickland's supervisor said he overheard the cousin who called 911 say deputies did all they could. Sgt. Lonnie Smith's report quoted Crystal Ross, 35, as saying: "Alfred was crazy and was beating all the officers up and throwing them around like they were nothing."

Ross and others who live at the home there would not talk with the Times-Union.

The shooting was not Dobson's first run-in with the law. It also wasn't Strickland's first brush with controversy.

A simple, troubled man

Dobson and six siblings grew up fatherless in a run-down Crescent City mobile home park 12 miles south of Pomona Park. People remember him as a happy-go-lucky, slow-learning kid who was sometimes bullied and would occasionally fight back.

Crescent City Police Chief Robert Johnson, who knew Dobson growing up, said the high school dropout began committing petty crimes as a teenager and continued as an adult. He said Dobson, broke and often hungry, stole food from local convenience stores. His arrests were mostly for theft, trespassing and loitering.

"I'd never seen him violent," Johnson said.

Dobson took a nosedive more than 10 years ago when someone smashed a brick into his head during an attack, friends said. Dobson began walking the streets day and night talking to himself, sometimes barefoot, and had other bouts of strange behavior. One of the strangest episodes came in 2007 when he was charged with exposing himself in a family's yard. Prosecutors dropped the case, though it's unclear why.

Dobson's sister and neighbors said they began taking him to the county's mental health center after he moved to Pomona Park years ago, but his erratic behavior continued.

He was especially shy around strangers, leading to frequent 12-mile walks to Crescent City just to be with childhood friends.

"He tried not to burden people because he was like that," said his sister, Becky Johnson, 30, of Palatka.

Neighbor Stacy Mullins, Jacob's father, said Dobson would get upset when people ridiculed him.

"Alfred just wanted to be accepted," said Mullins, 47.

Mullins said Dobson went with him to First Baptist Church of Welaka every Sunday and was the first to arrive at Mullins' home for Bible study.

"He just loved the word of God," Mullins said.

Dobson often visited his neighbors to chat, while seeking food, cigarettes or a few bucks for which he'd do odd jobs. Mayfield Pates Sr., said he and his wife, who lived across the street, cherished Dobson like a son.

"He told me some times, 'Mr. Pates, I love you all like a family I never had,' " said Pates, 53, a father of four. "I told him I wasn't going to let anybody hurt him."

About 25 people attended Dobson's memorial service in the tiny Friendship First Baptist Church in Crescent City. They sat where he once prayed.

A commended, embattled cop

Strickland, 33, had been back with the Sheriff's Office less than a month before the fatal shooting. An aspiring cop since he was young, Strickland worked as a Putnam deputy for five years before joining the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office, where his career nearly ended.

Strickland was a hard-working, proactive Putnam deputy and detective from 2002 to 2007, said Hardy, who was a lieutenant at the time. Strickland moved to Hillsborough for a better-paying job in early 2007. His work on the road and in SWAT earned him several letters of commendation and stellar evaluations. His ability to make sound, confident decisions was noted in his last evaluation in March 2010.

But an off-duty, drunken rage at a Tampa swimming pool in October 2010 nearly got him jailed.

Records show Strickland pinned a security guard against a wall after being caught urinating in public, then berated Tampa police officers called to the scene. He avoided arrest - the guard declined to prosecute - but a police internal review recommended dismissal.

Two Hillsborough deputies, including an internal affairs investigator, offered to write letters of recommendation for Strickland when he reapplied with Putnam this year. Hardy spoke with Strickland about the Tampa episode before deciding to give him a second chance.

"Raymond told me he learned a very valuable lesson," Hardy said. "He made a very immature mistake and paid dearly for it."

Strickland declined to comment for this story.

The aftermath

The day after Dobson's death, Hardy visited a visibly shaken Strickland to offer him comfort.

"How can anybody be OK after that?" Hardy said.

The sheriff said he will stand by his deputies in controversial incidents until proven otherwise and will do so in Dobson's death as he awaits word from FDLE, a related review by the State Attorney's Office and the internal affairs investigation.

Jacob Mullins said he believes the truth behind Dobson's death will never be told. But he said he finds comfort knowing Dobson is in a better place.

"He's walking with Jesus down the streets of gold," Mullins said, smiling.

Dobson is immortalized in a video of a birthday party Pates and his wife gave him in their home two months before his death. Dobson can be seen eating with the couple - they were the only people there - and laughing and dancing with Pates to some rhythm and blues.

Dobson can be heard lamenting over feeling lonely in a more solemn moment early in the video.

"I believe the whole world done forgotten about me sometimes," he said.

Pates has watched the video over and over since his friend's death, tears welling up in his eyes as images of Dobson pop on the screen. Pates said he intends to make sure his friend, neighbor and surrogate son is never forgotten.

"I want people to know he was important," Pates said. "He was somebody."

jim.schoettler@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4385