By Peggy Kelly

Santa Paula Police Department

A second call for a family disturbance ended Saturday evening with a Santa Paula police officer shot and one man dead in an exchange of gunfire in a residential neighborhood. According to Interim Police Chief Ishmael Cordero, the incident occurred July 28 at approximately 7:40 p.m. when the SPPD received a call of a family disturbance in the 1100 block of New Street, just east of 11th Street and south of East Main Street.

“The caller stated that the disturbing party,” identified as Edgar Garcia, 25, of Santa Paula, “was armed with a handgun,” and threatening other family members, the second call received that day by the SPPD regarding a disturbance at the residence. Cordero said, “When officers arrived at the location the second time, they saw Garcia fleeing inside the garage and into the residence.”

As officers approached the garage area, Garcia suddenly appeared from within the residence and fired at the officers, striking a reserve officer in the mid-section of his torso covered by a belt and inflicting a non-life threatening injury. More shots rang out, and during the exchange of gunfire Garcia was struck in the upper body. He was pronounced dead in the backyard of the home at 8:08 p.m.

A neighbor said they heard bursts of gunfire - at least one said they initially thought the sound was firecrackers - and then saw a man jump a fence and flee the area. Santa Paula Fire EMTs, a Ventura County Sheriff’s Department helicopter, VCSD and California Highway Patrol personnel also responded to the scene and a perimeter was established for blocks in all directions.

The ambulance holding the yet-unidentified SPPD reserve officer idled before driving away, and paramedics removing the officer’s vest were glimpsed through the open doors before the ambulance left the scene, accompanied by a SPPD reserve command officer. The second ambulance remained, and soon paramedics returned with first the backboard and then the empty gurney signaling the gunman was beyond treatment.

SPFD personnel brought the Mobile Command Unit to the scene and the Fire Department assisted in the investigation by providing lighting from about 8:50 p.m. Saturday to 6 a.m. Sunday. Oxnard Police provided four units, a canine, and a sergeant to answer calls during the aftermath of the incident. Cordero said the SPPD requested a response from the Ventura County Sheriff’s Department Major Crimes Unit as well as the Professional Standards Bureau to assist in conducting the investigation.

Also at the request of the SPPD and per protocol, the VCSD is reviewing the circumstances and conduct of the officers involved in Garcia’s death. Officers directly involved in the shooting will be placed on administrative leave until the incident is investigated, an action that is protocol in cases like this, said VCSD Capt. Don Aguilar.

He was unaware if a second suspect was involved, but noted a person running from the scene of a shooting might not be directly involved as much as perhaps fearing arrest or for some other reason. Aguilar said there were other people present at the residence at the time of the incident. And in shooting cases, “Sometimes they just do an aerial” and deploy a helicopter “as a precaution.”