A family photograph shows John Kriewaldt. John Kriewaldt died after striking his head in a squad car on his way to the Milwaukee County Mental Health Complex. December 14, 2012. Family photo

A family photograph shows John Kriewaldt. John Kriewaldt died after striking his head in a squad car on his way to the Milwaukee County Mental Health Complex. December 14, 2012. Family photo

This story was originally published in 2013 as part of the series "Chronic Crisis."

John Kriewaldt desperately wanted to go home.

As he lay writhing on the ground beside a squad car last July, hands cuffed behind his back, Kriewaldt, 30, pleaded with police officers to take him to his mother.

Born with mental retardation, Kriewaldt also suffered from a seizure disorder. He could speak, but often only in short sentences. Sometimes, when he was especially frustrated or frightened, he would try to make himself throw up. He often lashed out by kicking and hitting.

About this series Milwaukee County's mental health system focuses less on continual care and more on emergency treatment than any in the nation. Despite scandals, studies and promises of reform, the system is like many of its patients: It never gets better.

On the night of July 28, Kriewaldt banged his head repeatedly in the back of the police car as officers were trying to take him from a group home where he was temporarily staying to the emergency room at the Milwaukee County Mental Health Complex. As they waited for paramedics to arrive, Kriewaldt’s lips turned blue and his heart stopped.

He died two days later.

“I don’t understand how things went so wrong,” said his mother, Helen.

His room at home is just as he left it, rows of toy fire engines lined up neatly beside his bed, his Special Olympics medal on display.

Kriewaldt’s death raises questions about how to better handle people in psychiatric crisis. The answers are especially urgent in Milwaukee County, where emergency treatment is emphasized over community care and patients are more likely than any other place to be detained by police.

“We have a huge job getting people with mental illness into care, and sometimes things go wrong,” said Carianne Yerkes, a Milwaukee police inspector. Yerkes helped develop a special curriculum for police officers who volunteer to handle people in psychiatric crisis.

Symptoms of mental illness are not always easy to detect, especially when the person has other problems communicating, Yerkes said.

Fewer than 400 of the city’s 1,800 police officers are certified in Crisis Intervention Training, a national program developed to reduce the number of psychiatric patients killed in confrontations with police.

Trained officers were on duty the night the group home workers called for help, but no one was available at the time of the call, Yerkes said.

Police had taken Kriewaldt to the Mental Health Complex more than 10 times over the past 10 years. Helen said the District 2 officers had been good in dealing with her son. Often, they’d let her ride with her son so that he would not be afraid.

Kriewaldt, like many patients, hated the Mental Health Complex.

For three months in 2009, he had stayed at Hilltop, the long-term ward for people with a combination of mental illness and other disabilities, such as retardation. Because he could get violent, Kriewaldt was often strapped in a chair, case notes show, without saying how long. The notes do say that he “lost continence of his bowels” and was made to wear diapers.

He was being treated for bipolar disorder. Often anxious and combative, he could also be very loving.

“He was a man with a boy’s brain,” said Dasil Solomko, who lived near Kriewaldt on Milwaukee’s south side for more than 20 years. “The first thing he would do any time he saw me was to give me a big hug.”

Kriewaldt loved bubble baths. He played Hangman and watched “Jeopardy” and “Wheel of Fortune” with his grandmother.

But in February 2012, his grandmother was dying and his mother applied for respite care for Kriewaldt, so she could spend more time with her.

Bell Therapy, the agency that provided Kriewaldt’s case management, placed him at Thurston House on Milwaukee’s northwest side. Case notes give a clue of how rowdy he could be.

“DO NOT LET JOHN VIEW WRESTLING MOVIES” his case workers warned.

Return to family home

Kriewaldt returned to his family home July 19, four months after his grandmother’s funeral.

Helen noticed right away that he was harder to handle than he had been before leaving home.

On July 28, Kriewaldt started hitting his mother and throwing furniture. He had been agitated all day, his mother said. Normally, she could calm him down by giving him Skittles or singing or playing word games with him.

Helen called the police at 4 p.m. Two officers came to the house. The mother and officers agreed that Kriewaldt should go back to Thurston House and then to the Mental Health Complex, if he was still behaving violently.

Helen took her son back to the group home.

“I needed a break,” she said.

The details of what happened next come from the police investigation of Kriewaldt’s death and reports sent to the state by the group home.

Shortly after dinner, Kriewaldt told staff at the group home he was tired. A staff member from the group home took him upstairs to help him get ready for bed. Kriewaldt started to make himself throw up, according to staff members.

The more the workers tried to calm him down, the more agitated he became.

Kenneth Gold, a group home caregiver, told police that Kriewaldt “kept stating over and over that he just wants to go home.”

They gave him water to keep him hydrated. Kriewaldt threw the cups at them.

No one knew it at the time, but Kriewaldt was suffering from pneumonia, said Brian Peterson, the county medical examiner who conducted his autopsy.

His best guess was that Kriewaldt had been sick for several days.

“I think the lobar pneumonia explained his behavior, too,” Peterson said.

People with bad lung infections can’t get oxygen to their lungs and “for sure, that can lead to bizarre behavior,” Peterson said.

“In a person with developmental disability, it might be more difficult to make a quick diagnosis,” he said. “He might not have been able to talk about cough, chest pain, and so forth.”

At 8:36 p.m., after Kriewaldt began kicking and tried to tip over a dresser, the supervisor called police. He asked police to take Kriewaldt to Psychiatric Crisis Services, the county’s emergency room at the complex on Watertown Plank Road.

When police hadn’t arrived, they called again at 9:52 p.m., then again at 10:02 p.m. By then, Kriewaldt was assaulting some of the staff.

John Kriewaldt, 30, died after a struggle with police who were trying to take him to the Mental Health Complex. July 30, 2012. Courtesy of the Kriewaldt family

James Jordan, an officer with the Milwaukee Police Department for two years, and Michael Connell, a five-year veteran of the force, arrived at 10:07 p.m., in separate squad cars.

From police records:

“Are you taking me home?” Kriewaldt asked.

“This is where you live,” Jordan told him.

Without warning, Kriewaldt hit Jordan in the face.

Jordan grabbed Kriewaldt’s left arm and Connell grabbed his right. They spun Kriewaldt around and placed his hands behind his back with handcuffs. Then they walked Kriewaldt to the squad car, and Kriewaldt asked again: “Are you taking me home?”

This time, Jordan ignored the question. They placed Kriewaldt in the back of Jordan’s squad car.

Police squads are equipped with video cameras to record problems with suspects in the car. But the car was not running, so the camera was not working, police told investigators from the Milwaukee County district attorney’s office.

While Jordan and Connell were standing outside at the back of the car, Kriewaldt began to bang his head repeatedly against a metal bar and the plastic window that divides the front seat from the back. The police thought Kriewaldt might be trying to escape.

He actually may have been struggling to breathe, the medical examiner said.

The force was so powerful it made the car shake. The officers could see blood streaming down Kriewaldt’s face.

Connell opened the passenger side door and grabbed Kriewaldt by the armpits, pulling him out of the car. When Kriewaldt started to run, the officers tackled him and flipped him on his side.

Kriewaldt would not stop struggling, the officers told investigators.

Jordan grabbed Kriewaldt’s legs while Connell pinned him down by the shoulders. They called for back-up — a police wagon equipped with leg irons and a medical unit to attend to Kriewaldt’s head wounds.

Connell told investigators he tried to keep Kriewaldt lying on his side, but Kriewaldt kept rolling on to his stomach.

Witnesses said they could hear Kriewaldt shouting that he wanted to go home. Then he started making a growling noise.

After about six minutes, the police wagon and ambulance arrived. While paramedics examined Kriewaldt, he began to vomit. “His lips are blue,” one of the paramedics shouted. He started cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

They could not detect a pulse.

Phone call from group home

This is the part of the night that Helen keeps replaying in her mind.

A group home worker had called her to let her know that police were taking her son to the psychiatric hospital.

She arrived at the group home with her other son, Joseph, hoping to travel with John, to calm him down. Instead she found him lying on the ground surrounded by police and paramedics.

She was frantic.

“I was screaming at them to let me see my baby, but they wouldn’t let me anywhere near him,” she said.

Paramedics used a defibrillator to start Kriewaldt’s heart and inserted a tube down his throat to get air into his lungs. It took 35 minutes for them to get a regular pulse. They took Kriewaldt to Wheaton Franciscan Healthcare-St. Joseph, where, hospital notes show, his heart stopped again.

A scan the next day showed extensive injury to his brain. Lung X-rays showed evidence of pneumonia.

In the intensive care unit later that day, Kriewaldt’s heart stopped again.

Doctors told Helen that her son would not likely regain consciousness, but she would not authorize them to take him off life support.

“I kept thinking there was hope,” Helen said.

Doctors noted that they could not understand the cause of Kriewaldt’s cardiac arrests.

“Further investigation will be needed after his death,” Courtney McElroy, the attending physician, wrote in her case notes.

Doctors told Helen her son was never going to be the same. The next day, Helen changed her mind about keeping him on life support.

John Kriewaldt died at 10:39 that night.

Medical examiner’s ruling

Peterson, the medical examiner, ruled that Kriewaldt died of natural causes from complications of pneumonia.

John Chisholm, the district attorney, met with Helen three times to explain the officers had done nothing wrong. During the last session, Helen sat with her head in her hands, shaking and unable to look at photos taken by police at the scene.

In May, the Fire and Police Commission concluded the officers acted properly, but said the dispatcher should have made clear in the first call it involved someone in psychiatric crisis. The panel also changed procedures to require patients in such cases be transferred in a police wagon, not a squad car.

Had that been the case with Kriewaldt, “he might not have banged his head as he did,” said Michael Tobin, executive director of the commission.

Yerkes, the police inspector, said she doesn’t believe the case would have ended any differently had officers trained in mental health management responded.

“He had so many medical issues, I don’t see how this would have gone any other way,” she said.

In some ways, Kriewaldt was like a teetering tower with so many physical and emotional problems, said William Houghton, a psychiatrist who reviewed Kriewaldt’s case at the request of the Journal Sentinel.

“Jar one thing and the whole balance is apt to collapse,” said Houghton, a Yale University-trained psychiatrist who has written extensively about community mental health.

Houghton suspects that being moved from the group home to his house and back again added to Kriewaldt’s agitation that night.

“With the lack of continuity, people tend to lose control of how they manage their emotions,” he said. “Staying in any one place might have helped John to keep a bit more of his cool.”

There is a lesson in Kriewaldt’s death, Hougthon said.

Health systems that communicate more widely across disciplines do a better job in caring for patients, he said.

How can Milwaukee County's broken mental health system be fixed? From fewer emergency detentions to better community care, other cities show the way. Read

In many cities, such as Madison, and Columbus, Ohio, and Pittsburgh, patients like Kriewaldt are enrolled in a program for assertive community treatment where they are assigned to a team of caregivers.

The teams include a doctor, social worker and occupational therapist. The teams meet several times a week to discuss their cases. When problems arise, everyone on the team is consulted, and they make decisions about how to address the crisis.

“That would attempt to control the fragmentation of the current system,” Houghton said. “I think it’s a great idea, but not easy to achieve.”

In an ideal system, Kriewaldt would not have had to go to the emergency room. A doctor from the team would have been able to treat his anxiety at the group home.

Milwaukee County has considered this kind of system but rejected it as too expensive.

Helen is haunted by her son’s death. She blames herself for turning him back to the group home that day.

“I feel like I failed him,” she said. “It was my job to take care of him, to keep him safe.”

A few days after the funeral, police were once again called to the Kriewaldt house.

This time, it was Helen they took to the Mental Health Complex where she was put on suicide watch.

She has been back three times since, always in handcuffs.