Hemet police fatally shot a carjacking suspect who led officers on a foot chase and pointed a handgun at them late Tuesday, July 31, the Police Department said.

Rudy L. Arias, 27, of Hemet, was pronounced dead at a hospital about 6 a.m. Wednesday, according to the Riverside County coroner’s office. He had been shot by police about seven hours earlier in an older neighborhood just south of Hemet’s downtown shopping district.

The two officers who fired at him, whose names were not released, have been placed on administrative leave while the investigation is conducted, the Hemet Police Department announced.

shootout.map

According to Hemet police and Riverside County court records, Arias had a criminal history that included past felony convictions for vehicle theft and assault with a deadly weapon and had a warrant out for his arrest based on non-compliance with terms of a state law that shifted supervision of prisoners from state parole officers to local jurisdictions.

Riverside County sheriff’s Sgt. David Haar said Arias may have been the same person who approached a man in a parked car in San Jacinto at 4:15 p.m. Monday, July 30, asking for a light, then pressing a semi-automatic handgun to the victim’s rib cage and taking the man’s car.

According to Hemet police, officers thought they recognized the carjacker about 11:10 p.m. Tuesday, July 31, and stopped a man in the 200 block of East Florida Avenue.

Hemet police Lt. Duane Wisehart wrote in a news release that the man “took off running, leading the officer on a foot chase through parts of the downtown area and then south toward a residential area.”

The chase ended when the suspect “pulled out a handgun and pointed it towards two officers, who fired their handguns striking the suspect,” Wisehart wrote.

The shooting occurred in the 100 block of West Kimball Avenue, where residents said they heard as many as 10 gunshots.

“There were two shots, then it was like a machine gun, and then another shot,” said Ellen Ellis, 67, who lives across the street from the driveway where she said the shooting occurred.

There were bullet holes in a garage door, a fence and a trash can at the north end of the driveway, where Malik Black, 14, lives.

“I was asleep when it started,” Malik said. “I heard gunshots and came outside. I saw a guy on the ground.”

Ellis said she had just walked her dogs in a vacant lot across the street from the scene of the shooting and was walking in her back door when she heard the gunfire.

“I saw the guy. He had long hair that they put a plastic bag over,” she said. “He was about 5-foot-10 (inches tall). When they put him on the gurney his head was all kinked over. I figured he was already gone.”

Kim Ochoa, who lives next door to the shooting scene, said she was inside her home when she noticed flashing blue lights reflecting through her window.

“After the second or third light I thought I would check it out,” she said. “That’s when the shooting started. I hit the floor. The shooting was over in seconds.

“I could tell it was right there,” she said, pointing to the house where the shooting occurred. “I was on the floor. I was about ready to get in my tub because it was cast iron.”

She said the shooting was the most violent incident she recalls in the older residential neighborhood, just south of Florida Avenue and west of State Street.

“The Hemet PD and the city have done a fabulous job of trying to deal with the crime that we have,” she said. “The police have been very responsive.”