Jones County Sheriff Alex Hodge said a gunman died during a standoff.Hodge said the gunman and his daughter died in the home on Hamilton Hill Road in a nearly 14-hour standoff came to an end around 5:30 a.m. Monday.The suspect has been identified by the Jones County Sheriff's Department as 62-year-old Neil Newcomb.Hodge said Newcomb's daughter, Michele Savell, was killed during the hostage situation.The incident began Sunday, when the Jones County Sheriff's Department was called to the home about a disturbance. Deputies settled an argument and left, the Mississippi Highway Patrol said. Later in the day, deputies were called back to the house and found that Newcomb had shot his son-in-law, Timothy Savell, MHP said. It was then that the standoff began, MHP said.A hostage negotiator was called in who persuaded Newcomb to release his two grandchildren, ages 5 and 7, about 6 p.m. Sunday, MHP said. The children were unharmed.At some point, Newcomb shot his ex-wife, Kathy Laterrade, police said."His son-in-law was the first victim. He shot him in the face," Hodge said. "We then believe he shot his wife and then shot his daughter."Officials used an armored vehicle provided by MHP to set off flash grenades just before SWAT members moved into the home located in the Shady Grove Community."They used gas on the house to try to get him out," Hodge said. "They assumed they were dead. (Laterrade) came out of the house with a gunshot wound to the head. She had barricaded herself in the house because the suspect thought she was dead."Laterrade was listed in critical condition on Monday. Timothy Savell was recovering, Hodge said.A deputy was also injured by a blast of buckshot, MHP said. The deputy was taken to a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where he was listed in critical condition.Hodge said it is not clear if Newcomb was killed by law enforcement or took his own life.

Jones County Sheriff Alex Hodge said a gunman died during a standoff.

Advertisement

Hodge said the gunman and his daughter died in the home on Hamilton Hill Road in a nearly 14-hour standoff came to an end around 5:30 a.m. Monday.

The suspect has been identified by the Jones County Sheriff's Department as 62-year-old Neil Newcomb.

Hodge said Newcomb's daughter, Michele Savell, was killed during the hostage situation.

The incident began Sunday, when the Jones County Sheriff's Department was called to the home about a disturbance. Deputies settled an argument and left, the Mississippi Highway Patrol said. Later in the day, deputies were called back to the house and found that Newcomb had shot his son-in-law, Timothy Savell, MHP said. It was then that the standoff began, MHP said.

A hostage negotiator was called in who persuaded Newcomb to release his two grandchildren, ages 5 and 7, about 6 p.m. Sunday, MHP said. The children were unharmed.

At some point, Newcomb shot his ex-wife, Kathy Laterrade, police said.

"His son-in-law was the first victim. He shot him in the face," Hodge said. "We then believe he shot his wife and then shot his daughter."

Officials used an armored vehicle provided by MHP to set off flash grenades just before SWAT members moved into the home located in the Shady Grove Community.

"They used gas on the house to try to get him out," Hodge said. "They assumed they were dead. (Laterrade) came out of the house with a gunshot wound to the head. She had barricaded herself in the house because the suspect thought she was dead."

Laterrade was listed in critical condition on Monday. Timothy Savell was recovering, Hodge said.

A deputy was also injured by a blast of buckshot, MHP said. The deputy was taken to a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where he was listed in critical condition.

Hodge said it is not clear if Newcomb was killed by law enforcement or took his own life.