Investigators say Kenneth Roedig pointed a gun at an officer

A Green Township man is dead after being shot by a Hamilton County sheriff's deputy.Investigators said the incident began about 6 p.m. Friday when 68-year-old Kenneth Roedig's neighbors called Green Township police.Officers said Roedig was intoxicated and fired several shots in the direction of a neighbor's home in the 6200 block of Wesselman Road.Officials said Roedig was originally invited to the neighbor's home but some sort of incident erupted and he shot several rounds at the rear door of the home.The resident said she told Roedig that she was calling the police and to leave the residence. Roedig left the home without any further incident.Police said they found Roedig nearby in his home threatening suicide with a firearm in the 4800 block of Ebenezer Road and called in the Hamilton County Special Response Team.Deputies said while they were at the house, Roedig walked outside on the front porch with a rifle and pointed it at a Hamilton County Special Response Team member. At that time a deputy shot Roedig, killing him.Investigators at the scene recovered several firearms and a hand grenade inside Roedig's home.The name of the deputy is not being released at this time pending further investigation by the Hamilton County Investigation Section.

A Green Township man is dead after being shot by a Hamilton County sheriff's deputy.

Investigators said the incident began about 6 p.m. Friday when 68-year-old Kenneth Roedig's neighbors called Green Township police.

Advertisement

Officers said Roedig was intoxicated and fired several shots in the direction of a neighbor's home in the 6200 block of Wesselman Road.

Officials said Roedig was originally invited to the neighbor's home but some sort of incident erupted and he shot several rounds at the rear door of the home.

The resident said she told Roedig that she was calling the police and to leave the residence. Roedig left the home without any further incident.

Police said they found Roedig nearby in his home threatening suicide with a firearm in the 4800 block of Ebenezer Road and called in the Hamilton County Special Response Team.

Deputies said while they were at the house, Roedig walked outside on the front porch with a rifle and pointed it at a Hamilton County Special Response Team member. At that time a deputy shot Roedig, killing him.

Investigators at the scene recovered several firearms and a hand grenade inside Roedig's home.

The name of the deputy is not being released at this time pending further investigation by the Hamilton County Investigation Section.