Joe Johnson

jjohnson@onlineathens.com

An ex-convict shot and killed himself Monday after a police chase that ended on Atlanta Highway, Athens-Clarke police said.

Taurus Santonio Brooks, 34, was wanted by U.S. Marshals on a federal firearms warrant at the time of the chase, according to police.

The pursuit began in the vicinity of The Oaks on the River apartment complex, 2360 W. Broad St., about 10:30 a.m. and headed west where it ended near Omega Bar, 3155 Atlanta Highway.

Officers had responded to the apartment complex, formerly called The Park on West Broad, on a woman's complaint that Brooks was bothering her and that he was armed, according to police.

Brooks left the apartment and got into a car driven by a woman who drove him there, police said.

Officers saw the car as it left the complex, and the driver refused to stop after the officers activated their blue lights and sirens, police said. But the woman abruptly stopped near Omega Bar on Atlanta Highway when she realized Brooks had a gun; she jumped out of the car just before Brooks shot himself in the head and was immediately killed, police said.

The car Brooks was in stopped so abruptly that one of the patrol cars that was pursuing rear-ended it, police said.

The officer who was involved in the wreck was not injured, and the woman who drove the car was not charged, police said.

The westbound lanes of the roadway were closed for about 90 minutes while police investigated.

Detectives questioned Brooks' driver, but they would not say if she said he had talked about the federal arrest warrant or if an impending arrest had anything to do with his decision to kill himself.

Brooks was involved in another police chase in August 2007, when he was the driver.

A plainclothes drug investigator spotted Brooks driving in the vicinity of Brooklyn Road and Oglethorpe Avenue and called on uniformed officers to make a traffic stop.

Brooks wouldn't pull over for the officers and continued to drive after running over spike strips officers threw in his path, police said.

Brooks continued the low-speed chase on Hawthorne Avenue, police said, but he lost control as he turned onto Hawthorne Extension, where his car collided with another car.

Officers searched Brooks' car and found a large amount of crack cocaine, Hydrocodone, cash and a semiautomatic pistol, police said.

Brooks was released from prison in 2004 after serving seven years for an aggravated assault conviction in Athens-Clarke County, and police believe the federal firearms warrant stemmed from that incident.

• Follow Criminal Justice reporter Joe Johnson at www.facebook.com/JoeJohnsonABH or www.twitter.com/JoeJohnsonABH.