The Missouri Highway Patrol said a carjacking in Platte City led to a high-speed chase and crash that killed both drivers.Troopers said they had been following a man who was sought in connection with several car thefts earlier in the day, one from as far away as Council Bluffs, Iowa.Troopers said the man stole another car at gunpoint outside a Casey's General Store in Platte City and troopers started to pursue him."He obviously was intent on depriving them of their own particular vehicle and he didn't care who he sacrificed to get his means done," said Sgt. Bill Lowe of the Missouri Highway Patrol.Troopers said the driver drove erratically during the chase and hit a blue SUV head-on near Tracy on Mo. Highway 92."We'd rather have it end peacefully," said Lowe. "But the suspect chose a different path."The woman who was driving the SUV died at the scene. The Highway Patrol identified her as Antwinette Holtsclaw, 54. A neighbor said Holtsclaw was on her way home and had almost arrived when she was hit.The driver of the car that had been stolen was flown to a hospital, where he died. He was identified as Randy Hartline, 27, of Council Bluffs, Iowa.One neighbor told KMBC 9's Haley Harrison that she heard the crash happen. She said she knew from the sound of the impact that she wouldn't be able to do anything to help.11833402

The Missouri Highway Patrol said a carjacking in Platte City led to a high-speed chase and crash that killed both drivers.

Troopers said they had been following a man who was sought in connection with several car thefts earlier in the day, one from as far away as Council Bluffs, Iowa.

Advertisement Related Content Images: Innocent bystander killed in wreck with carjacking suspect

Troopers said the man stole another car at gunpoint outside a Casey's General Store in Platte City and troopers started to pursue him.

"He obviously was intent on depriving them of their own particular vehicle and he didn't care who he sacrificed to get his means done," said Sgt. Bill Lowe of the Missouri Highway Patrol.

Troopers said the driver drove erratically during the chase and hit a blue SUV head-on near Tracy on Mo. Highway 92.

"We'd rather have it end peacefully," said Lowe. "But the suspect chose a different path."

The woman who was driving the SUV died at the scene. The Highway Patrol identified her as Antwinette Holtsclaw, 54. A neighbor said Holtsclaw was on her way home and had almost arrived when she was hit.

The driver of the car that had been stolen was flown to a hospital, where he died. He was identified as Randy Hartline, 27, of Council Bluffs, Iowa.

One neighbor told KMBC 9's Haley Harrison that she heard the crash happen. She said she knew from the sound of the impact that she wouldn't be able to do anything to help.