MODESTO (CBS13) – Modesto police shot and killed a suspect after he allegedly stabbed a teen and rammed an SUV into a house.

Police were called to a home in the 1000 block of Gemini Court just after 1:30 Tuesday morning for a report of a stabbing.

When they arrived, they found a 17-year-old boy who had been stabbed in the arm. As officers investigated, they discovered the suspect, identified Wednesday as 44-year-old Randy Lynn Sheffield, was in a Chevy Tahoe parked on the street near the home.

At some point, Sheffield drove the SUV straight at the front porch of the home, hitting a tree and crashing into the front door.

Celia Miller's 1-month-old daughter was sound asleep inside the home when the mother of three heard the commotion.

"I was here on my front porch when it all started and ended, me running into the house grabbing my newborn baby and through to the back bedroom where other children were," she said. "And I ended up being there until they were done shooting him."

Police bullets landed inches from her baby's bassinet.

"I'm angry. I'm hurt. That could have been my baby," she said. "The baby, I'm so grateful she's alive. She slept through all of it."

Miller says Sheffield was after his ex-girlfriend and her 17-year-old son who were seeking safety on Miller's porch after the man reportedly stabbed the teen.

Moments later, witnesses say he rammed his SUV into Miller's home.

"This is a horror story in reality for me now," she said.

Others in the court watched the stabbing and the chaos that followed.

"Once he hit the house, he revved it, put it in reverse because he couldn't get into the house, and then cops shot him," witness Jeanne Powell said.

Not everyone was able to move out of the way in time. The driver hit his ex-girlfriend standing on the porch. She is expected to be OK, as is the 17-year-old. They were treated at a hospital and released.

"It was scary, kind of like a movie," Powell said.

Two police officers opened fire after witnesses say the driver refused to turn off his vehicle.

"There was six cops screaming at him to turn the car off," Miller said. "He wasn't doing it. He was throwing it in reverse and flooring it. They were screaming, 'We are going to shoot! We are going to shoot!'"

The officers were identified Wednesday as John Moss, who is an 11-year veteran, and Bobby Meredith, an eight-year veteran. They were placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.