MIAMI (CBSMiami) – One person was killed in a police-involved shooting in front of a pawn shop in Miami-Dade.

Miami-Dade Police Detective Roy Rutland said officers approached the business on NW 75th Street and 7th Avenue around 10:30 Tuesday morning for an ongoing criminal investigation. Once inside, detectives spoke with Charles William Collins, 40, who they believed to be the subject of their investigation.

Collins reportedly told detectives that his identification was inside his car in the parking lot, and detectives followed him outside to retrieve it.

Jennie DeGeorge, 27, was arrested during a Miami-Dade police-involved shooting which left one person dead. (Source: Miami-Dade Corrections)

Once outside, Det. Rutland said Collins got into the car, placed it in reverse, and accelerated toward the detectives. One detective, who has not been identified, opened fire at Collins.

The car, a 2012 Volkwagen GTI, was reported stolen from Broward County.

"They continued to tell him to get out of the vehicle, get out of the vehicle and they refused to get out," said Tim Brayden who saw what happened. "I guess the guy tried to, maybe, run over one of the officers or something like that, and they kept on moving, and then that's when I heard the shot fired."

Collins was taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital's Ryder Trauma Center where he was pronounced dead.

A woman, identified as Jennie DeGeorge, 27, was in the passenger seat of Collins' car. She was unhurt and taken into custody for an unrelated probation violation warrant.

"She's a good girl. she's a really good girl," said DeGeorge's mother, who did not want to be named."

"And did you know Collins?" asked CBS4's Summer Knowles.

"Yes, and he always treated her with respect. She's a really good girl, and nobody's guilty until they are proven guilty," said her mother.

A detective suffered a shattered elbow in the fray and was taken to the hospital for treatment.

CBS4 News has learned that Collins had an extensive criminal record dating back to 1998 for multiple offenses including grand theft and drug charges. DeGeorge also has and lengthy criminal record.

This is the fourth police-involved shooting in the last two weeks.