The knife-wielding man shot and killed Tuesday in a confrontation with Gladstone police had a history of erratic, menacing behavior, addiction and attempted suicide.

Michael Justin Evans, 23, was fatally shot by one of two Gladstone police officers dispatched around 10:30 p.m. to investigate a report that Evans was tearing apart the home he shared with his grandmother, Judie K. Reich, in the 300 block of West Fairfield Street.

On Wednesday, the orange spray-paint outline of his body remained on the sun-burned front lawn where he died.

Gladstone Police Chief Jim Pryde said one of the officers "fired multiple rounds and Mr. Evans died at the scene." No other details were released.

The two officers, Steve Mixson and Christopher Spore, have been placed on paid administrative leave while the case is investigated by the Clackamas County Major Crimes Team.

Those who know Evans said he led a troubled life gripped by mental illness and substance abuse, occasionally twisting him into someone unrecognizable.

According to Clackamas County 9-1-1 records, police were dispatched to his home 10 times in the past 20 months to investigate domestic disturbances, criminal mischief, noise complaints, suicide attempts and threats.

A former girlfriend filed for a restraining order against Evans five months ago, describing him as emotionally unstable.

"He has mental problems and cannot control himself," Chelsey Lynn Stoughton, 22, wrote in her petition. "I am very scared because he is so unpredictable."

Stoughton alleged that at various times, beginning in the fall of 2011, Evans stalked her, punched her, pushed her against a wall, held her by the throat, threatened to rape her in her sleep and threatened to kill them both by crashing their car.

"Mike takes medication that alters his thinking and at the time (of an assault) was on methadone because of heroin addiction," Stoughton wrote.

She said Evans attempted suicide several times.

Reached by phone Wednesday, Stoughton declined to comment.

When he was killed, Evans still was on probation from 2011 convictions for attempting to elude a police officer, a Class C felony, and reckless driving, a Class A misdemeanor. Evans served seven days in jail as part of his sentence.

He also was on probation from a conviction last month for contempt of court.

A neighbor said Evans often drove too fast through the neighborhood, tearing around sharp turns at 50 mph without checking for children, the elderly or pets.

"It was scary sometimes," he said.

Michelle Darnell, 46, said she and Dean Evans -- Michael Evans' father -- were smoking cigarettes at her nearby home about 10:30 p.m. Tuesday when they heard what sounded like four gunshots. Dean Evans then went over to his son's nearby home.

He arrived to find "all this commotion" and called Darnell, yelling, "The cops shot my son! The cops shot my son!"

"He was freaking out, which is understandable," Darnell said.

Evans' case is the latest in a growing number of incidents involving police and the mentally ill in recent years.

Officers dispatched to his home should have been advised of Evans' history of attempted suicide and mental illness, but Gladstone police declined to provide a detailed accounting of events leading up to the shooting. They also declined to provide information about mental health protocols and training the department provides.

But in cases where an armed person confronts officers, force escalates quickly.

Sgt. Adam Phillips, Clackamas County Sheriff's Office spokesman, said officers' first obligation is to prevent threats from getting out of hand.

"Our loose rule of thumb is that a person, from a dead stop, can cover 21 feet in about 1 1/2 seconds," he said. "That doesn't give you much time to react."

Reporter Noelle Crombie of The Oregonian contributed to this report.

--

--