With family locked in bedroom, suspect inside Folsom home killed by deputy

Four young children and their parents locked themselves inside a bedroom Tuesday as police engaged with a suspected robber in another parts of the Folsom home -- where he later was shot in the back and killed, police said.Photos: Folsom Bank robber captured in surveillanceThe chase started after the Folsom Police Department got reports of a robbery at a Wells Fargo near East Bidwell Street on Tuesday just after 5 p.m.When officers combed the area, they encountered a suspicious person a few blocks away walking in a residential area. He was wearing a large backpack.The Folsom Police Department said the man dropped his bag and then ran away.The chase took officer through back yards and even across a roof of a nearby business. Radio traffic caught the attention of authorities with the Sacramento Police Department and the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department.The man made his way to a home on the 1300 block of School Street, which was occupied by a family of six, including four young children, police said.Frantic screams from the family were heard by a Folsom police officer and Sacramento deputy.A chase near and in the home continued before the officers encountered the man in the hallway.Police said the man attempted to get inside a locked bedroom where the family took cover.As the man attempted to enter another room, he was shot once in the back by a sheriff’s deputy, police said. Efforts to revived him were not successful, and he died at the scene.None of the family members were injured.The man’s identity is pending confirmation from the Sacramento County Coroner’s Office.

Four young children and their parents locked themselves inside a bedroom Tuesday as police engaged with a suspected robber in another parts of the Folsom home -- where he later was shot in the back and killed, police said.

Photos: Folsom Bank robber captured in surveillance

Advertisement Related Content Photos: Folsom Bank robber captured in surveillance

The chase started after the Folsom Police Department got reports of a robbery at a Wells Fargo near East Bidwell Street on Tuesday just after 5 p.m.



When officers combed the area, they encountered a suspicious person a few blocks away walking in a residential area. He was wearing a large backpack.



The Folsom Police Department said the man dropped his bag and then ran away.



The chase took officer through back yards and even across a roof of a nearby business. Radio traffic caught the attention of authorities with the Sacramento Police Department and the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department.



The man made his way to a home on the 1300 block of School Street, which was occupied by a family of six, including four young children, police said.



Frantic screams from the family were heard by a Folsom police officer and Sacramento deputy.



A chase near and in the home continued before the officers encountered the man in the hallway.



Police said the man attempted to get inside a locked bedroom where the family took cover.



As the man attempted to enter another room, he was shot once in the back by a sheriff’s deputy, police said.



Efforts to revived him were not successful, and he died at the scene.



None of the family members were injured.



The man’s identity is pending confirmation from the Sacramento County Coroner’s Office.

