Full text of "Johnson County Attorney Investigation of Officer Involved Shooting"

Office of the Criminal Johnson County Courthouse • 417 South Clinton Street • P.O. Box 2450 • Iowa City, IA 52244-2450 Phone (319) 339-6100 • Fax (319) 339-6149 Johnson County Attorney Anne M. Lahey Michael D. Brennan Meredith Rich-Chappell Elizabeth A. Beglin Kristin L. Parks Rachel Zimmermann Smith Dana Christiansen Jude T Pannell Naeda Erickson Janet M. Lyness Civil-Juvenile County Attorney Andrew B. Chappell Patricia A. Weir Emily Voss Susan D. Nehring Child Support August 24, 2012 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE From Johnson County Attorney Janet Lyness: 1-(888) 229-9223 Investigation of Officer Involved Shooting On August 16, 2012, two State Division of Narcotics Enforcement (DNE) agents assigned to the Johnson County Drug Task Force were conducting undercover operations at Trailer 7C Breckenridge Trailer Court, 4494 Taft Avenue in Johnson County. During the course of the operation an altercation occurred and shots were fired. As a result of the incident one person was confirmed dead. A second subject was injured. The injured subject was treated at an area hospital. The two DNE agents were not injured. The officer involved in the shooting is DNE Special Agent Daniel Stepleton. Stepleton is a 27 year veteran of the Department of Public Safety, serving 23 years in the Division of Narcotics Enforcement. The deceased subject was identified as Ivan Carl Hardemon, age 24. An autopsy, conducted by an Assistant State Medical Examiner, confirmed that Mr. Hardemon died as a result of gunshot wound. The injured subject was identified as Demarco Dudley, age 22. He was treated for injuries and released from the hospital on August 17, 2012. The investigation was conducted by officers from Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI), Iowa City Police Department, and Johnson County Sheriffs Office, with assistance from other local agencies. Criminalists from the Division of Criminal Investigation Laboratory processed the scene of the shooting. The investigation shows the following: Two DNE officers were conducting an undercover operation for the purchase of illegal narcotics. DNE agent Daniel Stepleton had made arrangements for purchasing the narcotics at Breckenridge Estates. Stepleton and another DNE agent went to Breckenridge Estates, Trailer C7 shortly before 7:00 p.m. on August 16, 2012. Once at the residence, Ivan Hardemon directed agent Stepleton and the other undercover officer into the trailer. Shortly thereafter, the officers saw two other men come from the back of the trailer with their faces covered with cloth, hats on, and holding clubs or rods. Ivan Hardemon then took a black handgun out of his backpack. Hardemon directed the masked men to pat down Stepleton and the other agent and to check their pockets. Stepleton had his hand gun tucked in the back waistband of his pants under his shirt. One of the masked men began patting down Stepleton. When the man felt the gun in Stepleton' s back, Stepleton leaned against the wall to keep the man from removing the gun. Stepleton then saw Hardemon aiming the gun at Stepleton' s head, actually touching Stepleton' s head with the barrel. Hardemon made statements about shooting Stepleton and the other officer. Agent Stepleton reached for Hardemon' s gun and attempted to push it away from his head and to the left. Agent Stepleton also reached into his back waistband and removed his gun and shot four times, striking Hardemon in the chest and in the arm. Demarco Dudley was shot twice in the arm. Hardemon and the two other men ran out of the trailer, across the street, and through a vacant lot. Hardemon died at the back of the vacant lot. Dudley and the other man fled from the scene. After the investigation, which included interviews with the officers, Demarco Dudley, Norman Dudley, a canvass of the neighborhood, review of surveillance footage, the findings from Hardemon' s autopsy, and crime scene analysis, a review by the Johnson County Attorney and the Attorney General's Office determined that Agent Stepleton acted with reasonable force and was justified in his actions. Because of the pending criminal charges against Demarco Dudley, no further details can be released at this time. As with any criminal case, a charge is merely an accusation and a defendant is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty.