A man is dead after being shot during an altercation with police Friday evening in the West End.On Saturday, Cincinnati Police Chief James Craig identified the man as 51-year-old Kevin Willingham. The Chief said Officer Benjamin Schneider was called to a home in the 800 block York Street to check on the well being of a 56-year-old woman.Craig said the Willingham became upset and shut the door on the officer and then came back to the door with a gun and pointed it at the officer.Craig said, "Mr. Willingham continued to advance on Officer Schneider while pointing the firearm at Officer Schneider. The guardian heard Officer Schneider order Mr. Willingham to drop his firearm twice."Craig said the Schneider feared for his safety and fired four shots at Willingham, hitting him "several times." Craig said Willingham didn't fire a shot. He was taken to a hospital where he died.Officials said neither the officer, social worker nor bedridden woman were injured.Officials said that per standard protocol, Schneider, the eight-year veteran officer was placed on administrative leave.

A man is dead after being shot during an altercation with police Friday evening in the West End.

On Saturday, Cincinnati Police Chief James Craig identified the man as 51-year-old Kevin Willingham. The Chief said Officer Benjamin Schneider was called to a home in the 800 block York Street to check on the well being of a 56-year-old woman.

Advertisement

Craig said the Willingham became upset and shut the door on the officer and then came back to the door with a gun and pointed it at the officer.

Craig said, "Mr. Willingham continued to advance on Officer Schneider while pointing the firearm at Officer Schneider. The guardian heard Officer Schneider order Mr. Willingham to drop his firearm twice."

Craig said the Schneider feared for his safety and fired four shots at Willingham, hitting him "several times." Craig said Willingham didn't fire a shot. He was taken to a hospital where he died.

Officials said neither the officer, social worker nor bedridden woman were injured.

Officials said that per standard protocol, Schneider, the eight-year veteran officer was placed on administrative leave.

