PLACENTIA – Authorities on Tuesday identified the man killed during a SWAT standoff during which police say he pointed a double-barreled shotgun at officers as Joseph Paul Oregero.

Oregero, 57, of Placentia, was shot by SWAT officers from Fullerton and Brea after he was believed to have pointed the shotgun at officers, Placentia police Detective Corinne Loomis said.

Oregero, who police said had an outstanding warrant, was taken to a hospital in critical condition. He was pronounced dead a short time later.

The standoff began shortly before 3 p.m. Monday when Oregero, who was being followed by members of a multi-agency auto-theft task force, got out of a van and ran into a trailer behind a home in the 100 block of Orchid Drive, near North Bradford Avenue, police said.

Members of the task force were in the area looking for a stolen vehicle when they spotted Oregero driving around several times in a van, Loomis said.

“When they ran the plate, it came back to (Oregero) and showed a warrant,” Loomis said, adding that officers contacted him and asked his name. Oregero gave his middle name and ran to the trailer, Loomis said.

“The officers backed away when they heard the sound of what they believed to be the racking of a shotgun,” Loomis said.

A SWAT team composed of members of several North County departments was called out as police tried to negotiate with Oregero, police said.

During the standoff, police say they were contacted by Oregero’s friends, who claimed that he had an open warrant, was armed with a shotgun and did not want to return to jail. Oregero’s friends indicated he would “kill or be killed,” Loomis said.

Crisis negotiators tried to contact Oregero but were reportedly unsuccessful.

Police say the standoff ended when Oregero pointed a shotgun at the SWAT officers. Fearing for their safety, the officers fired at Oregero, Loomis said.

The shotgun was recovered by police and no officers were injured.

Oregero lived in the trailer where the standoff and shooting took place.

According to Orange County Superior Court Records, a Joseph Paul Oregero with the same birth date pleaded guilty in 2009 to one count of felony possession of a controlled substance with intent to sell. He was sentenced to 75 days in jail and three years’ probation.

Loomis said Oregero had a no-bail warrant stemming from a probation violation of his 2009 conviction.

The Orange County District Attorney’s Office is investigating the shooting, as is routine for shootings involving police officers.

“We’ll be investigating the conduct of the officers involved to determine if there is any criminal culpability on the part of the officers,” said Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman for the Orange County District Attorney’s Office.

An administrative Placentia police investigation is under way involving all of the North County SWAT agencies, which include Placentia, Fullerton, Brea, La Palma, La Habra and Cal State Fullerton.

Contact the writer: 714-704-3709 or desalazar@ocregister.com