IRVINGTON — In the smiling photo in which he flashes slender cheek bones, wide eyes and a smile beneath the brim of a New Jersey Devils baseball cap, Zion James looks anything but intimidating.

But, police officials say, the 13-year-old from Newark was one of four teenagers who may have gone on a weekend crime spree, committing a slew of armed robberies and a carjacking that ended with his death on an Irvington street.

James was riding in a stolen 2000 Jaguar that sped off after Irvington police tried to stop it near 18th Avenue and 21st Street at around 10 p.m. Sunday. A wild chase ensued that looped through East Orange and Newark before winding back to Irvington.

As the car crossed Sanford and Clinton avenues, it clipped another vehicle and crashed into a telephone pole, bringing the pursuit to a sudden and violent end. Police pulled three teenagers and a handgun out of the car, Acting Essex County Prosecutor Carolyn Murray said Monday. But James, who was riding in the back seat, didn’t make it out alive. He was pronounced dead at the scene, Murray said.

Irvington Police Director Joseph Santiago said detectives are trying to determine if James and the other three teens, ages 14, 15 and 17, were members of a stick-up crew responsible for at series of armed robberies in Irvington this past weekend. Police are also investigating the possibility James was a runaway who may have gone missing more than a month ago, according to two law enforcement sources.

The sources spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the incident with the media.

Attempts by The Star-Ledger to reach James’ family were not successful. However, the boy’s mother, Yvette Crawford, told Channel 7 news that her son had run away from home last month.

The events that led to Sunday night’s chaos may have started earlier in the day. The vehicle in which James was riding was reportedly carjacked, at gunpoint, in Irvington on Sunday afternoon, Murray said, but it remains unclear if the 13-year-old and the other teens were the ones who stole it.

When police arrived at the scene of the fatal crash they arrested three other teenagers and seized a handgun from the wreckage, Murray said. The other teens were charged with eluding police and receiving stolen property, Essex County’s chief assistant prosecutor Thomas Fennelly said.

None of the other three was identified because of their ages.

Santiago said the weapon recovered was a .22-caliber handgun, and it may have been the same firearm used in the earlier carjacking.

The crash rocked the section of Irvington near Sanford and Clinton avenues, a sleepy residential stretch marked by dentist’s office and a day care center.

"It was like a huge boom," said one resident who asked not to be identified. "It’s usually much quieter around here."

Star-Ledger staff writer Eunice Lee contributed to this report.

Follow @NJ_News

Related coverage:

• Authorities identify 13-year-old involved in Irvington carjacking, killed in police chase

• Newark boy, 13, killed during Irvington police chase after helping steal car

• Child killed in crash in Irvington after police chase