A motorcyclist was killed after clipping a police car on a quiet street in the Hill neighborhood in St. Louis on Saturday night, police say.

The crash, the second Saturday fatality involving a motorcyclist, occurred during the annual “Streetfighterz Ride of the Century” in the St. Louis area.

St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson said in a news briefing at the accident scene that an unmarked police car was driving on January Avenue near Elizabeth Avenue shortly after 6 p.m. when a group of four motorcycles passed. Three of the motorcycles passed to the left of the police car, but a fourth passed the police car on the right side and clipped the car’s side-view mirror. The driver lost control of his motorcycle and crashed into a grassy area at the side of the road, Dotson said.

Police identified the man as Michael Evans, 32, of the 600 block of Webster Street.

The officer in the undercover car was not chasing nor attempting to follow the motorcycles when they drove past him, Dotson added.

Police said that a group of riders attending the annual ride was staying at the Red Roof Inn a short distance from the accident scene. Dotson said the accident might have taken place as the motorcyclists were en route to the hotel.

Dotson said that before the crash, residents had reported motorcyclists performing stunts, including popping wheelies and riding while standing up on the vehicles.

Dotson said he felt “frustration” over the Streetfighterz event, saying that the motorcyclists are welcome in the city but are asked to obey the law.

EARLIER FATALITY

Earlier Saturday, in St. Charles County, a 25-year-old St. Charles man died when his motorcycle collided with a car.

Justin M. Rohe was traveling southbound on Mid Rivers Mall Drive near Ohmes Road at 1:35 a.m. on a 2001 Yamaha motorcycle when the collision occurred, according to the Missouri Highway Patrol.

Officials said a 2008 Pontiac G6 driven by Teresa A. Brhely, 49, of St. Peters, was traveling northbound on Mid Rivers and as she was making a left turn onto westbound Ohmes, Rohe failed to stop at a red light and struck the rear passenger side of her car.

Rohe was thrown from his motorcycle. He was pronounced dead at the scene.