UPDATED at 9:15 a.m. with additional detail from police

ST. LOUIS • Willie James Anderson was a drug addict who was asked to live in the garage rather than his sister's home and kept a machete there for protection, his family says.

And so they don't fault police, they say, for fatally shooting him early today when he wielded the machete during a disturbance in the family's backyard.

"It's true he had a machete," said Anderson's younger sister Felicia Anderson. "If he had a machete, the officer did what he had to do."

A St. Louis police officer fatally shot Anderson, 54, when he came at them with the weapon, police say. Anderson becomes the 15th person to be shot by St. Louis police officers this year, and the fifth to die.

The incident started at about 3 a.m. today at 5823 Era Avenue, near West Florissant Avenue and Goodfellow Boulevard.

Anderson's family had called police because Anderson was becoming violent and "destroying things in the backyard," said David Marzullo, a spokesman for the St. Louis Police Department.

"He was ordered several times to drop the machete, and he approached officers in a menacing ... and threatening manner," Marzullo said.

An officer fired three shots, hitting Anderson twice -- in the hand and abdomen, police say. Anderson was pronounced dead at Barnes-Jewish Hospital at 4:21 a.m. today.

The male officer who fired the shots is 26 years old and has been on the city police force nearly two years. Police would not identify the officer by name. He is on administrative leave, pending the outcome of an investigation by city police.

Anderson's sister, Felicia Anderson, said her older brother had struggled with drug addiction and may have been high on drugs at the time of the incident. She didn't know precisely what sparked his rage in the backyard.

He had been asked by relatives to sleep in the garage, rather than the house.

His sister was at work at the time of the shooting but said she knew her older brother had a machete. "If you live in the garage, you need something to protect yourself," she said.

Willie Anderson's mother, who lives at the home, was uninjured. And no officers were injured.

His sister said family members don't fault police for shooting him if he came at them with a machete. Felicia Anderson said she didn't think her brother would have hurt the officers, but they couldn't know that because they didn't know him.

Willie Anderson worked as a handyman, his sister said.

"Even though he had a substance abuse (problem), he made an honest living," she said. "He really wasn't a violent person. He'd been in jail in the past, but it was always petty stuff, nothing violent."