Crime & Safety Pierce County Prosecutor Concludes Tacoma Officer Shooting Of Former JBLM Soldier Justified Pierce County Prosecutor Mark Lindquist says the incident involved 29-year-old Prince Jamel Gavin, who was shot after he pointed a handgun at a Tacoma police officer last year. He reportedly was in the process of transferring from JBLM. Reply

The Pierce County Prosecutor's Office has concluded its investigation into an officer-involved shooting of a former Joint Base Lewis-McChord soldier last year in Tacoma.

The office found that the police officer was justified in shooting 29-year-old Prince Jamel Gavin, who reportedly was in the process of getting transferred from JBLM. On August 31, 2012, Gavin’s girlfriend called 911 and reported that she had been assaulted by Gavin at his Tacoma area apartment. After Tacoma Police Officer Keith O'Rourke spotted him, the officer "moved behind a vehicle parked in front of the residence and continued to tell Gavin to drop the gun."

"Gavin turned and raised the handgun toward Officer O’Rourke. Officer O’Rourke, fearing for his life, fired his duty weapon at Gavin striking him once in the upper body. Gavin collapsed on the porch and was pronounced dead at the scene." Said Pierce County Prosecutor Mark Lindquist: “The officer acted to protect himself and anyone inside the 911 caller’s home.”

Gavin died from his injuries. Here is the county's press release regarding the prosecutor's decision:

Independent and concurrent investigations by the Pierce County Medical Examiner’s Office, the Pierce County Prosecutor’s Office, and the Tacoma Police Department regarding the shooting death of 29 year old Prince Jamel Gavin have been completed. Gavin died from a gunshot wound inflicted by Tacoma Police Officer Keith O’Rourke. The officer was responding to a 911 call after Gavin’s girlfriend reported she had been assaulted by Gavin. She was worried he was going to her house where her son was. Pierce County Prosecutor Mark Lindquist concluded the death was justifiable homicide under state law. “This began as a domestic violence call and ended when Mr. Gavin pointed a handgun at the officer,” said Prosecutor Lindquist. “The officer acted to protect himself and anyone inside the 911 caller’s home.”