-- Tuscaloosa deputies and SWAT Team members found a man killed from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound during a house raid on Sunday in Buhl.

At approximately 11 p.m. on Sunday, two Tuscaloosa County Sheriff's Office deputies went to a residence in the 15000 block of Highway 140 in Buhl to serve a possession of controlled substance warrant on

Randall Justin Roberts

.

Deputies were met at the front door by the suspect's father Randall Floyd Roberts. Deputies read the warrant to the father and asked about the son's whereabouts. The deputies then asked the father to step aside because they believed the son was in the residence, but the father refused and was placed under arrest for obstructing governmental operations. Police said the father then resisted officers who took him in to custody.

Once inside the house, the deputies went to the bedroom where they believed Roberts, 34, was inside. When they approached the bedroom, a single gunshot went off as the deputy was opening the door. Deputies retreated from their position, removed the suspect's mother from the residence and took her to a safe place where the father was in custody.

Additional officers from the Tuscaloosa Police Department and the Northport Police Department, along with additional deputies from the Sheriff's Office responded to the call of shots fired. A perimeter was established around the residence. Permission was granted by Sheriff Ted Sexton for the SWAT team to be deployed, with the department's Bear Cat (Armored Tactical Vehicle), Aviation Unit, K-9 and Paramedic.

Attempts were made to make contact with Justin Roberts starting at 11:20 p.m. through approximately 1:30 a.m., according to the Sheriff's Office. Numerous attempts were made to contact Roberts from the Public Address system in the Bear Cat. Distraction devices were used prior to gas deployment that was authorized and deployed. The helicopter was used to provide distraction and noise cover for the SWAT team to deploy assets. A telescopic T.V. camera was used to search the house enabling the team to break windows from the outside, place the camera inside to search rooms within the house for the subject, while the team members physically remained outside the house using video monitors. A K-9 Unit was deployed and indicated the subject's presence in a rear bedroom.

SWAT Team members then entered the residence and found the subject dead, inside the bedroom closet that the dog had previously indicated, with the door partially closed, covered with clothing and other items. A 22-caliber revolver was found lying next to the subject. The Sheriff's Office believe the original shot fired by Randall Justin Roberts was to kill himself. No other shots were reported fired from within the house.

Sheriff Sexton released the following statement: "I want to thank the agencies that assisted us in this high risk operation. The abilities of our law enforcement profession were exemplified by all law enforcement personnel on the scene who came together from different agencies to work as a team."