CHICO — When Chico police shot tear gas at Wayne Renner Sept. 11 in an attempt to get him out of his north Chico apartment, he responded with gunfire, Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey said Wednesday.

Renner, 49, fired at least 32 rounds from his .30-caliber rifle at officers, Ramsey said. Police fired 14 rounds back to end the day-long standoff at Renner’s Tara Terrace apartment, off Burnap Avenue.

Ramsey said at least once, officers near Renner heard him say, “I’m going to kill them.”

The county’s officer-involved shooting team determined Chico police officers did not break any laws when they hit Renner twice, killing him, Ramsey said Wednesday at a press conference.

Officers Will Clark, Greg Rogers, Ben Love and Mike Caldwell all fired. Three returned to work Wednesday after having a psychiatric examination, Chico Police Chief Kirk Trostle said. One, due to scheduling difficulties, will be evaluated today.

Ramsey said Renner had an undiagnosed condition his family called a “mood” that would make him angry, paranoid and delusional. About a month before the shootout, his “mood” lasted.

Renner had been talking to people who were not there, about conspiracies, drug lords, police and the need to protect his family, they told Ramsey. He brought out his firearms.

“This is a tragic event,” Trostle said. “I feel sadness for the Renner family that they have to go through this.”

Renner had lived in Chico for a dozen years and previously in Orland, Ramsey said. He was unemployed.

The week prior to the shootout, Renner was involved in three high-speed chases with law enforcement, during which he had loaded weapons.

On Sept. 5, officers saw Renner driving recklessly about 2:25 a.m. on Cohasset Road with his hazard lights on. Eventually a sergeant stopped him, Ramsey said. A loaded 9 mm pistol was found in his trunk.

Renner was arrested on suspicion of misdemeanor having a loaded firearm in public, taken to the Butte County Jail in Oroville, and issued a citation with a notice to appear in court, Ramsey said.

Two days later at 2:07 a.m., Renner got in a chase with the California Highway Patrol on Highways 99, 149 and 70. He was arrested and another firearm was found, this time in his console. He was booked into the jail on suspicion of felony aggravated evading an officer, possession of a concealed firearm and resisting arrest.

The CHP failed to give the jail a declaration of probable cause, so he had to be released within 48 hours, Undersheriff Kory Honea said. Jail staff called CHP, but they got the wrong office and Renner left the jail at 2:41 a.m. Sept. 9.

The CHP’s court liaison was on vacation and the person filling in did not fax the officer’s completed form to the jail, CHP Capt. Scott Gillingwater said.

“Sometimes paperwork, just like in any business, gets misplaced,” Ramsey said.

Law enforcement has since changed the protocol for turning in the declaration forms so officers have to complete the paperwork before they leave the jail, Gillingwater said.

On Sept. 11, a Chico police officer saw a car speeding at 2:47 a.m. on Cohasset Road and chased it 10.4 miles through Chico. Officers found the vehicle abandoned in Renner’s driveway at 3 a.m. with another pistol in it. They set up loudspeakers and tried unsuccessfully to get Renner to come out.

Police towed the car.

The mother of Renner’s grandchildren called the home and went there concerned, but did not get a response from Renner or his wife, Ramsey said. She came to the Police Department about 8:25 a.m. and requested surveillance.

At 9:15 a.m., police asked CHP to obtain a new arrest warrant for Sept. 7 incident in case it was needed, Ramsey said.

Also that morning, a co-worker of the wife went to the home because she had not shown up at work that day, Ramsey said. She heard signs of a domestic dispute and was told by a gruff male voice to “Get the hell out.”

Police, including the SWAT team, converged on Burnap Avenue. Officers started evacuating homes on Tara Terrace, a process that went into the afternoon.

Just before noon, Renner’s wife escaped to a nearby home. Police later got her and the residents out of that apartment.

About 2:40 p.m., hostage negotiators used loudspeakers to try to contact Renner. A robot also delivered a phone to his apartment, but he refrained from responding.

Police requested the Butte County Sheriff’s Office’s armored rescue vehicle called the Peacekeeper.

Ramsey laid out the final sequence that follows:

6:46 p.m. — SWAT team members in the armored vehicle shot tear gas into the apartment. Renner went into his backyard at 6:58 p.m. but refused officers’ commands and went back inside.

7:28 p.m. — Officers again lobbed tear gas into the apartment.

7:30 p.m. — Renner opened fire at officers in apartments on White Avenue behind his home, and at SWAT officers in the adjoining apartment. A minute later, SWAT sniper Will Clark fired one shot back at Renner but did not hit him.

7:38 p.m. — Renner fired more shots. Four minutes later he opened the front door but ducked back inside.

7:42 p.m. — Renner opened the front door and pointed his rifle toward the officers. Three SWAT team members fired at Renner, who was confirmed down at 7:43 p.m. Medics confirmed Renner was dead at 7:50 p.m.

Renner had one upper abdominal gunshot wound from Rogers’ sniper rifle and a wound that went through his head from a .223-caliber round from either Love or Caldwell.

The next day, a Department of Justice forensic team found what was thought to be a pipe bomb in the apartment. The bomb squad removed it from the building and exploded it. Investigators later learned it was ammo in a typical pipe bomb casing used to keep the rounds dry, Ramsey said. It had no fuse.

In a letter to the Chico police chief, Ramsey wrote, “From all of the above, it is clear that your department was dealing with the tragedy of an untreated mentally ill individual who had retreated into a delusional world in which he felt he must devolve into a ‘combat’ mood.

“Your agency did everything it could to bring this event to a peaceful and safe conclusion. When the obviously dangerous subject presented himself at his front door with the obvious intent to ‘shoot it out with the police’ — your officers had no option but to protect themselves and the public.”

Trostle said his officers followed protocol and used self-control as trained. The officers involved are doing well in light of what happened.

“They put themselves in harm’s way to deal with this incident,” Trostle said.

Connect with Katy Sweeny at 896-7760, ksweeny@chicoer.com, or on Twitter @KatySweeny.