CHICAGO (CBS) -- At least six men have been killed and at least 23 people have been injured in various shootings in Chicago from friday night to early Monday.

The most recent fatal shooting victim was a man caught up in a love triangle on the Southwest Side.

The man was at a residence with a woman in the 4500 block of South Lavergne Avenue when the woman's ex-boyfriend showed up and tried to get inside, police said. The pair refused to let in the ex-boyfriend while he continued to pound on doors and windows and scream at them, according to police. Eventually, he got into his vehicle drove off.

Sometime later, about 12:10 a.m., the man left the residence, thinking the ex-boyfriend had gone, police said. As he got into his own vehicle to leave, the ex-boyfriend appeared and shot him several times in the head and chest. The man was taken to Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn where he died, police said. The ex-boyfriend was arrested.

The dead man was identified as Delon Brandon, 25, of another residence in the 4500 block of South Lavergne Avenue, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner's office. He was pronounced dead at 1:05 a.m.

The other fatal shootings include one man who was fatally shot and two others that were wounded by police in two separate incidents this weekend.

Police shot at one man and killed another after they allegedly pointed handguns at officers responding to a Roseland neighborhood block party 9:30 p.m. Friday in the 200 block of West 110th Street, according to police.

Christopher McGowan, 22, of the 14900 block of Marshfield Avenue in Harvey, was pronounced dead at the scene at 11:49 p.m. Friday, according to the medical examiner's office.

The second man who allegedly pointed a gun was found in a nearby yard and arrested without incident, the statement said. The third suspect was arrested at the scene.

No police officers were injured and two weapons were recovered, the statement said.

Alex J. Benison, 35, was shot and killed during a robbery about 8:45 p.m. Friday night, in the 12200 block of South Ada Street, two blocks away from his West Pullman neighborhood home on the Far South Side. Benison, of the 12100 block of South Ada Street, was pronounced dead at the scene at 9 p.m., according to the medical examiner's office.

Brian Cherney, 22, was found dead on a sidewalk in the 4800 block of West George Street in the Northwest Side Belmont Cragin neighborhood at 2:20 a.m. Saturday, according to police and the Cook County Medical Examiner's office. Cherney, of the 4800 block of West Wolfram Street, suffered a gunshot wound to the chest.

Jerell Butler, 26, was killed and another hurt when a shooter on a bicycle opened fire about 1:10 a.m. Saturday in the 900 block of North Drake Avenue in the West Side Humboldt Park neighborhood. Butler was dead at the scene after he was shot in the head and the chest. The other man, 32, was shot in the upper right arm and taken in "stable" condition to Saints Mary and Elizabeth Medical Center.

Devon Fields, 22, was shot at least twice in the head and once in the shoulder as he stood outside with a group of people gathered in a backyard in the 1300 block of North Latrobe Avenue about 3:30 a.m., authorities said. Fields, of the 5200 block of West Bloomingdale Avenue, was taken to Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, where he later died.

A 26-year-old woman was also injured in the shooting, police said. She was listed in good condition at West Suburban Medical Center in Oak Park with a graze wound to her right calf.

In non-fatal shootings, police shot a 17-year-old boy after he allegedly pointed a gun at officers about 9:10 p.m. Saturday in the 7700 block of South Wolcott Avenue in the South Side Englewood neighborhood. He was taken in "stable" condition to Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn with a gunshot wound to the buttocks, said Fire Media Affairs Cmdr. Sean Flynn. No officers were injured and a weapon was recovered.

The Sun-Times Media Wire contributed to this report.

(Source: Sun-Times Media Wire © Chicago Sun-Times 2012. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)