The police officer who shot and killed an armed 83-year-old Altavista woman in September will not face criminal charges, a decision that has upset her family.

Roanoke County Commonwealth’s Attorney Don Caldwell, the special prosecutor appointed in the case, concluded Sgt. L.P. Rigney Jr., of the Altavista Police Department, was justified in shooting Delma Towler near her Tenth Street home Sept. 19.

“It is my opinion that the shooting of Ms. Delma Towler by Sergeant Rigney … was an act of justifiable homicide and thus not subject to criminal prosecution,” Caldwell wrote in the conclusion of his summary of the investigation released Monday.

Caldwell noted his investigation included 911 tapes and “audio-visual information captured by the lapel cameras worn by the two Altavista Police Officers on the night in question,” as well as the investigation conducted by the Virginia State Police and his own visits to the scene of the incident and conversations with family members.

Rigney could not be reached for comment.

Family members maintain Towler may have thought a prowler was outside her home that night and disagree with Caldwell’s findings. Towler’s daughter, Madeline Clark, said the family is considering filing a civil suit.

In his six-page summary of the investigation, Caldwell provides the most-detailed account to date of what investigations reveal about the 38 minutes between officers being summoned to Towler’s home and when she was shot.

Rigney and Officer Brian Davis were alerted to a 911 call and hang-up at Towler’s home Sept. 19 at about 9:10 p.m. When they arrived, the officers heard movement inside the home and tried to make contact for 30 minutes, Caldwell wrote.

While the officers were outside, dispatchers made repeated attempts to call Towler.

In 911 recordings obtained by The News & Advance, dispatchers tried to tell her officers were outside and implored her to put down the weapon she was reported to have been carrying.

In each attempt, they received either a voicemail message, busy tone or silence.

At about 9:30 p.m., the responding officers heard a gunshot within the house. When Davis approached to look through a door window, “He saw an individual, later determined to be Ms. Towler, standing in the front room. Ms. Towler raised and fired what appeared to be a handgun in his direction,” Caldwell wrote.

Officers retreated to their cars and used loudspeakers to urge Towler to come out of the house.

A short time later, the officers heard another shot from the rear of the house and saw her leave. Towler walked through her next-door neighbor’s backyard, toward a house two doors down from her own where her sister, Margaret Davis, lived. Rigney and Brian Davis followed.

“She has a gun,” Brian Davis yelled at Rigney, according to the case summary.

As she turned a corner around Margaret Davis’s house, she began to raise her gun in Rigney’s direction, Caldwell wrote.

The sergeant ordered Towler to drop her weapon, but she did not.

Rigney fired three shots from his semi-automatic rifle, striking Towler in the leg, hip and neck, the last of which was instantly fatal, the summary stated.

After the shooting, which happened at 9:48 p.m., investigators found a Smith and Wesson six-shot revolver under Towler’s body. It held four empty cartridge casings and one live cartridge and had one empty chamber.

Authorities found her eyeglasses and hearing aids in her house, “which, according to persons close to her, would have greatly compromised her ability to comprehend and process information easily,” the report stated.

“Sergeant Rigney explained that he fired his weapon in the manner described above because he feared for his personal safety due to the fact that Ms. Towler was armed and had already fired her weapon multiple times during the course of the event.

“… Under the facts of this situation, I do not find that Sergeant Rigney’s actions were carried out under a state of mind that meets the legal definition of malice. Consequently, I do not find that the evidence would support a charge of Murder,” Caldwell wrote.

Towler’s family met with Caldwell on June 6. He told them at the time criminal charges would not be brought against Rigney, a decision which frustrated the family, Clark said.

“Everything went the way we expected. … Basically they let him get away with murder,” she said the day after the meeting.

“The whole family is really upset. She didn’t get a fair investigation at all. … I had faith in them, and it was just like a punch in the gut.”

Clark has said, and maintains, she believes someone was trying to rob her mother, and Towler fired in warning.

Caldwell’s report addressed the theory, wondering if her original 911 call was to report a suspected prowler.

He noted Towler’s pocketbook was not located during the police search of the house but was later found, with its contents, in a washing machine by a family member cleaning the house.

“Whether or not there was, in fact, a prowler on that evening remains a subject of speculation. … [T]he reason for Ms. Towler initiating a 911 call on this evening remains a mystery which may never be conclusively resolved…” Caldwell wrote.

In his legal analysis of the incident, the prosecutor gave the perspective of an officer responding to a scene of gunfire.

“…[S]ome might question the danger posed to a police officer by an 83-year-old woman …” he stated.

However, he recalled an incident of a Roanoke City officer killed by an accidental gunshot while responding to a call.

“His death underscores the fact that a bullet marked ‘to whom it may concern’ is just as dangerous as the bullet with your name on it. Said another way, a random shot can be just as deadly as an aimed shot.

“While I am truly sympathetic to the surviving family of Ms. Towler, Ms. Towler’s use and possession of a handgun under this situation put Sergeant Rigney in a position where he had to instantly make a decision to protect himself from the possibility that Ms. Towler might fire her weapon at him.

“In hindsight, it appears clear that Ms. Towler, for whatever reason or reasons, was unable to understand that the individuals on her porch were police officers.”