35-year-old man pronounced dead at the scene

A Roseville police officer shot and killed a man during a struggle late Saturday, police said.Investigators said the incident began when officers responded to a domestic disturbance call in the 1600 block of Sierra Gardens Drive late Saturday. Police said a drunken man, who's been identified as Paul Lawson Storey, had pushed a woman and was armed with a baseball bat. Storey, 35, fled the scene when officers arrived, according to police.Investigators said neighbors told officers the Storey had a gun.Police said they found Storey in the 1700 block of Tanglewood Lane and a struggle started as they attempted to arrest him.Police said a second officer, fearing for the safety of the officer involved in the struggle, shot the man he was attempting to arrest.Storey, a Roseville resident, was pronounced dead at the scene. Both officers involved in the incident have been placed on administrative leave in accordance with department procedure. The incident was under investigation.

A Roseville police officer shot and killed a man during a struggle late Saturday, police said.

Investigators said the incident began when officers responded to a domestic disturbance call in the 1600 block of Sierra Gardens Drive late Saturday.

Advertisement Related Content Family: Father had hands over head when shot by police

Police said a drunken man, who's been identified as Paul Lawson Storey, had pushed a woman and was armed with a baseball bat. Storey, 35, fled the scene when officers arrived, according to police.

Investigators said neighbors told officers the Storey had a gun.

Police said they found Storey in the 1700 block of Tanglewood Lane and a struggle started as they attempted to arrest him.

Police said a second officer, fearing for the safety of the officer involved in the struggle, shot the man he was attempting to arrest.

Storey, a Roseville resident, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Both officers involved in the incident have been placed on administrative leave in accordance with department procedure.

The incident was under investigation.