Salinas police announced new details Monday about the death of a man shot during a confrontation with police, but have not named the two officers involved in the incident.

Richard L. Chacon Jr., 32, of Salinas, was shot Friday by police who stopped his vehicle as part of an investigation into the armed robbery of a Walmart store the day before.

Police spokesman Miguel Cabrera said Chacon, a suspect in the Walmart robbery, was spotted driving around 1 p.m. when officers tried to get him to pull over in the 1900 block of Constitution Boulevard.

Chacon stopped his vehicle and opened the driver”s side door, Cabrera said, then”leaned out and fired gunshots toward the officers positioned behind him.”

The two officers returned fire, wounding Chacon, Cabrera said.

Chacon was taken to a local hospital, where he was later pronounced dead. The officers were not injured.

Police say a man they”d identified as Chacon entered the Walmart store at 1800 N. Main St. about 10:15 a.m. Thursday dressed as a security guard, then pointed a gun at an employee. He left with an undisclosed amount of cash.

Cabrera said that after Chacon was shot Friday, police found him in possession of the weapon allegedly used to fire at the officers, and said another loaded handgun was found tucked in Chacon”s waistband.

After the shooting, SWAT officers quickly surrounded a residence in the neighborhood near Constitution and Nantucket boulevards they believed was associated with Chacon, blocking off the area while they attempted to call out anyone inside. That standoff lasted into early Saturday.

By then, police obtained two search warrants.

At the first home, in the same block of Constitution Boulevard where Chacon was shot, officers found “two high-powered rifles, a large amount of ammunition and a substantial amount of cash believed to be related to the robbery at Walmart,” Cabrera said.

At another nearby residence on Paloma Avenue, police said they found ammunition and “several” gun magazines.

On the day of the robbery, investigators went over store video footage and said they found enough evidence to convince them that Jose Eliseo Agustin, 21, an assistant manager at the store, was involved.

Agustin was arrested and late Thursday booked into Monterey County Jail on charges of robbery and conspiracy to commit robbery, with gang enhancements.

He was arraigned on Monday.

Police said the investigation into Agustin and his relationship to Chacon is ongoing. Although police have described both men as gang members, court records show no past felony charges for Chacon or Agustin in Monterey County.

Julia Reynolds can be reached at 648-1187 or jreynolds@montereyherald.com.