See the update at the end of this post identifying the deceased as Terry A. Newhouse.



ORIGINAL POST, OCT. 2, 11:36 A.M.: One does not normally associate the tony Balboa Coves gated community–where current real estate listings show homes going for $1 million+ to $3 million+ each–with the kind of violent tragedies found miles inland from Newport Beach. But these are desperate times for the 1 percenters, as polls show Democrats more confident about the future than Republicans heading into November's election. And so, we now have a man taking his own life after a long standoff with police at Balboa Coves.

]



See also:

Man in Early 50s Goes From Being Barricaded Subject to Suicide Victim in Buena Park Apartment

How Not to Commit Suicide: Unlucky OC man wanted to die quietly but landed in prison after explosion

76-Year-Old Edward Lee Royle, Upset Over Medical Woes, Apparently Commits Suicide by Cop

Now, to be honest, this unidentified soul had an argument with a woman before barricading himself inside the luxury pad, so his demise likely has more to do with the state of his relationship than the current political atmosphere. Still, desperation is definitely in the air, so who knows whether that was a contributing factor?



This we do know: Newport Beach police were informed of a man in his 40s with a gun at the West Coast Highway address around 9:15 p.m. Monday, he managed to hold off SWAT teams until the wee hours of the morning, and around 4:30 this morning officers made their way in and found him suffering from a gunshot wound to the head. He died at the hospital.

Police say he'll be identified after next of kin are notified.

UPDATE, OCT. 11, 2:33 P.M.: The Orange County coroner has identified the man the agency says took his own life after an Oct. 2 police standoff as licensed Realtor Terry Newhouse.

Online Realtor listings reveal the 44-year-old Newport Beach resident worked for Coldwell Banker real estate. And he was apparently living the good life in the gated Balboa Coves community, as his Facebook page reveals he was into Buddhism, Teddy Roosevelt and The Colbert Report.

The sheriff's coroner's office reportedly informed The Daily Pilot it took longer than expected to release Newhouse's name because of difficulties finding his next of kin.

Newport Beach Police were called about a man threatening a woman with a gun at the Balboa Coves home the night of Oct. 1. The unidentified woman, who knew Newhouse, was safely outside the residence when officers arrived. Hours later, they entered the home to find him suffering from a gunshot wound to the head. He later died at Western Medical Center in Santa Ana. The coroner's office has ruled his death a suicide.

Follow OC Weekly on Twitter @ocweekly or on Facebook!