Dave Nyczepir

The Desert Sun

WH

The family of a man who died in 2012 is suing Palm Springs and its police department for unspecified monetary damages on accusations officers used unreasonable and deadly force.

Joshua Sznaider, 27, died Oct. 6 at Desert Regional Medical Center in Palm Springs, four days after police shocked him twice with a Taser and put him in a chokehold at Sunrise Park.

According to court documents filed in U.S. District Court in Riverside, the family says Sznaider went into cardiac arrest because of the chokehold.

The family provided depositions this week and is seeking the money for Sznaider’s child, who lives in San Bernardino. Their lawyer, Chris Bader, said he will speak at 1 p.m. Monday in Sunrise Park on the anniversary of the incident.

Officers came to check on Sznaider about 7 a.m. Oct. 2 after someone called about him climbing a tree near Sunrise Way and Ramon Road, and more calls came in when he ran north on Sunrise Way, weaving in and out of traffic, and caused a disturbance at an assisted-living facility, police said at the time.

He initially obeyed officer orders, but then resisted violently as they tried to arrest him, according to police. Three officers were hurt as they wrestled with Sznaider.

Sznaider was shocked twice on drive-stun mode, and Officer Cary Carrillo applied a “carotid control hold.” Police acted “within the course and scope of their employment,” according the city’s response in court documents.

Sznaider’s actions caused his family’s injuries and damages, if any, and neither public employees nor their employer are liable for injuries caused by a person resisting arrest, the response also says.

“The city’s position is that our officers responded and dealt with that situation in an appropriate manner, given all the circumstances that surrounded that case,” said City Attorney Doug Holland.

“Typically there are settlement discussions, mediations and motions that take place, but if the case can’t be disposed of, in all likelihood it will go to a jury trial.”

Sznaider, who had just graduated from the University of Redlands, called American Medical Response Ambulance personnel at 6 a.m. that day and joked with them while declining hospital transport, according to the court complaint.

“Despite knowing that Joshua Sznaider was wanted for no crime, had reacted peacefully when approached peacefully, and had himself sought the assistance of emergency personnel,” the lawsuit reads, officers used “deadly force” until he passed out and died.

Police denied Sznaider “prompt medical care,” the lawsuit also alleges, and the family’s unreasonable search and seizure and equal protection rights were violated.

The three officers hurt as they wrestled with Sznaider were not put on leave, police said at the time. Two returned to work the day of the struggle, and the third was on light duty for a few days before returning to full duty.