Terry Dickson

A 16-year-old girl died Friday from injuries she suffered in the crash of a Dodge Charger that was fleeing officers in Camden County Wednesday. An adult male passenger died at the scene.

Kyrsten Q'Amise Veal, 16, of Sanford died Friday morning at Shands Jacksonville where she had been hospitalized since the crash just north of Kingsland, Camden County sheriff's Deputy William Terrell said.

Since July 29, she had been listed as "missing/runaway'' from Seminole County, Terrell said.

The state patrol previously identified her as Jryrsten Veal.

Another passenger in the Charger, David L. Sessions, 24, was pronounced dead at the scene after a Georgia state trooper executed a maneuver with his patrol car intended to spin the suspect vehicle of the roadway. About 15 minutes after the chase began, the Charger spun off U.S. 17 and struck a pine near the intersection of Daisy Avenue and broke in two ejecting Sessions and killing him, the Georgia State Patrol and Terrell said.

The driver, Jamal D. Jones, 19, survived and is in serious condition at Shands Jacksonville, Terrell said.

The chase began when a Camden County sheriff's deputy attempted to stop the Charger about 2 p.m. as it traveled southbound on Interstate 95 north of Kingsland, he said.

The vehicle accelerated south at high speed and swerved toward Kingsland police officers who had deployed stop sticks, Terrell said.

The Charger continued into Florida where it left I-95 at Exit 380 and started north on U.S. 17, he said. The car sped back into Georgia and through Kingsland where the trooper took the lead in the chase that then included the sheriff's office and Kingsland police, Terrell said.

Jones is in custody at Shands Jacksonville charged with aggravated assault in the swerving of the vehicle toward the Kingsland officers. He is also charged with felony fleeing and attempting to elude officers, aggressive driving, reckless driving and a window tint violation, Terrell said.

Terry Dickson: (912) 264-0405