A residential street near west suburban Addison erupted in gunfire Monday night when a man shot at an Addison police officer and was killed by return fire, authorities said.

George Scoville, 47, was fatally shot outside his home in the 20W300 block of Belmont Place in unincorporated DuPage County, police said. The officer had gone to Scoville's home about 6:30 p.m. to question him in a hit-and-run crash at Lake Street and Lombard Road in Addison.

Advertisement

The encounter quickly escalated, and Scoville raised a gun and fired several shots at the officer before running back into his home, Addison police Officer Chris Weinbrenner said. When Scoville came back out, again shooting, police returned fire.

Scoville was pronounced dead at Adventist GlenOaks Hospital in Glendale Heights, according to a police statement. No officers were injured. It is unknown how many officers were involved in the shooting, which is being investigated by the DuPage County Major Crimes Task Force.

Advertisement

A man speaking for the Scovilles declined to comment Tuesday, except to say that the family was "badly hurting."

As a precaution and at the recommendation of police, officials at nearby Addison Trail High School ordered that the school be put on lockdown shortly after 7 p.m. Monday.

Students, staff and community members were safely evacuated about an hour later.

"At no time was there an intruder; at no time were there shots that hit the school," said District 88 Superintendent Scott Helton. "Our kids were not in danger."

Police set up a staging area at the high school, officials said.

On Tuesday afternoon, with the sun shining and a warm breeze pulling leaves from the tree branches, Scoville's house was quiet. Halloween pumpkins sat in a well-manicured yard, and faux spider web had been stretched around evergreen bushes.

Neighbors driving to and from their homes slowed down as they passed while police in plainclothes canvassed the area. Residents said police could be seen earlier Tuesday on the roof of the Scoville home.

Neighbors stood in the shady patch of grass on Central Court talking about the previous night.

Advertisement

"Nothing like this has ever happened," said Richard Colucci, a retiree who has lived on the street for almost 50 years.

"We called police, but they said they couldn't tell us what was going on," said Rosalie Scrivo, who was returning home about 9 p.m. Monday when she encountered the police barricades.

The neighbors said they didn't know Scoville well, but they said he was a hunter and a tradesman who may have been unemployed.

Mary Colucci remembered Scoville offering to do odd jobs like plow residents' driveways in the winter to earn money.

"He would do anything," she said.

The coroner's office declined to release the results of Scoville's autopsy. Police did not release details of the hit-and-run investigation.

Advertisement

efmeyer@tribune.com