LAKE COUNTY, Calif. – The District Attorney’s Office has issued a final report on an officer-involved shooting last October, ruling that a California Highway Patrol officer was justified in shooting to death a man who attacked her on the side of the highway.

On Monday District Attorney Don Anderson released the report, which he told Lake County News is part of the process set forth in a county critical incident protocol used when officer involved shootings take place.

Anderson’s office investigated the shooting, which occurred last Oct. 24.

Ronald Walter Ossenberg, 52, of Orange County was shot to death after he attacked a CHP officer who stopped to check on him on the side of the road. At the time, he was parked in a 2010 Toyota Camry he allegedly had stolen.

While Anderson’s report does not name the officer, the CHP has identified her as Erica Coddington.

According to the investigation, Ossenberg had a lengthy criminal history that included nearly 40 arrests on charges that related to drugs, violence against peace officers and domestic violence. He also was a registered sex offender.

Ossenberg was released from the Orange County Jail on Oct. 3, 2012 – three weeks before the shooting occurred – after serving 43 days of a 90 day jail sentence, according to Anderson.

Sometime between Oct. 9 and Oct. 14, Ossenberg is alleged to have stolen the vehicle from Fullerton and headed north on Highway 1, stopping to stay with friends in Cambria, the report explained.

At 6 a.m. Oct. 20 he was found sleeping in the stolen car at Hearst San Simeon State Park by Officer Nick Chase of the California Department of Parks and Recreation, Anderson said.

Ossenberg refused to obey Chase’s orders and fled in the car. Chase had to move behind his vehicle to avoid being hit by Ossenberg’s car, and Ossenberg escaped because the officer couldn’t pursue him.

The investigation stated that on Oct. 23 Ashley Hendricks reported her backpack was stolen from the Golden Gate Bridge Vista Point area. The backpack – which contained her wallet, credit cards, checks and some clothing – later would be found inside the stolen Camry following Ossenberg’s death, Anderson reported.

Ossenberg is believed to have arrived in Lake County on Oct. 24. Anderson’s report said Ossenberg parked the Camry off the right shoulder of the northbound lane of Highway 29, south of C Street in Lower Lake and appeared to have fallen asleep.

It was just before 2 p.m. that day that Coddington stopped to check on the Camry, based on the report. She had Ossenberg get out of the vehicle to check if he was under the influence of alcohol. While he didn’t show signs of being drunk, Anderson reported that it later was discovered Ossenberg’s blood alcohol level was .22 percent, nearly three times the legal limit.

Coddington asked dispatch for a warrant check and driver’s license information, finding out that Ossenberg had a no-bail felony warrant for his arrest, according to the report.

When Ossenberg heard Coddington call for a cover unit to assist, he grabbed her by the neck and then threw her on the ground, getting on top of her and trying to get her gun out of the holster, Anderson reported.

Gilberto Lopez III was driving northbound past Coddington’s patrol vehicle when he saw Ossenberg grab her in a bear hug and throw her to the ground. Anderson said Lopez immediately skidded to a stop, got out of the vehicle and ran to Coddington’s aid.

The report said Lopez saw Ossenberg grab for the gun and he heard a single shot. Lopez then watched as Ossenberg went back to the Camry, got in and drove onto the highway. Ossenberg crossed the southbound lane and drove off the roadway’s west side, going through a wire fence at the edge of the vineyard before the vehicle came to a stop.

Anderson said it was Lopez running toward Ossenberg that diverted his attention from the struggle for the gun. As Ossenberg turned to look at Lopez, Coddington was able to get control of her gun, and she drew and fired one round while Ossenberg was still on top of her.

After Ossenberg tried to flee in the vehicle, Coddington requested emergency backup and reported that shots had been fired. Anderson said Lopez and Coddington then tried to help Ossenberg while waiting for medical units to arrive. Ossenberg later was pronounced dead at the scene.

Anderson said the investigation revealed the bullet entered through the right side of Ossenberg’s lower back, fracturing the posterior right 11th rib, perforating the liver and right ventricular wall of the heart, and fracturing the anterior left sixth and seventh ribs before lodging in the subcutaneous tissue of the anterior left chest wall.

He said the bullet trajectory “was back to front, right to left, and upward,” which is consistent with Coddington shooting Ossenberg as he was on top of her.

Citing case law, Anderson concluded that Ossenberg’s shooting was justifiable homicide.

Anderson said Coddington’s belief that Ossenberg would have killed her had he gotten her firearm “was a justifiable fear of death or serious bodily harm to the officer.”

Anderson added, “Ossenberg’s violent conduct and his ability to violently over power the officer with such force and skill, was such that a reasonable person in the same situation would be in actual fear of their life or being inflicted with great bodily harm.”

He said that there also was “substantial evidence to sustain the finding” that Ossenberg intended to do great bodily injury to Coddington or to kill her had he gotten possession of the gun. Had he gotten the gun, Lopez’s life and the lives others also could have been in “imminent jeopardy.”

Anderson’s full report is below.

Email Elizabeth Larson at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. . Follow her on Twitter, @ERLarson, or Lake County News, @LakeCoNews.



LAKE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S FINAL REPORT

REGARDING OFFICER INVOLVED SHOOTING OF

RONALD WALTER OSSENBERG ON OCTOBER 24, 2012

INTRODUCTION

On October 24, 2012, a California Highway Patrol Officer stopped to assist a motorist off the north bound lane of Highway 29, south of the town of Lower Lake, California. The sole occupant of the vehicle, Ronald Walter Ossenberg had felony warrants for his arrest from the Orange County Superior Court.

Ronald Walter Ossenberg attacked the officer grabbing the officer by the neck and then throwing the officer to the ground. Ossenberg wrestled with the officer and attempted to remove the officer’s firearm. The officer was able to gain control of the firearm and fire one fatal shot into the body of Ossenberg.

It is the finding of this office that the killing of Ronald Walter Ossenberg was justifiable homicide pursuant to California Penal Code Section 196.

PROCEDURES

Pursuant to the Lake County Law Enforcement Fatal Incident Protocol of 2012, the Lake County District Attorney Investigation Division conducted the investigation into the incident along with the CHP Critical Incident Investigation Team. Also assisting District Attorney’s office investigation were several officers and investigators from the Lake County Sheriff’s Department and the Clear Lake Police Department.

This report and findings are conducted pursuant to California State law and the Lake County Law Enforcement Fatal Incident Protocol of 2012.

FACTS

Ronald Walter Ossenberg was homeless after his release from the Orange County jail on October 3, 2012. Ossenberg has a lengthy history of criminal offenses, including crime of violence against police officers, domestic violence, drug offenses and was a registered sex offender at the time of the incident. Ronald Ossenberg’s criminal history includes the following events:

October 9, 1980, arrested for petty theft and resisting arrest spends 2 days in jail.

February 2, 1982, arrested for burglary, charges were dismissed.

February 20, 1982, arrested for possession for sale and transportation of marijuana, charges were dismissed.

June 22, 1988, arrested possession of controlled substances, indecent exposure, being under the influence of controlled substance resisting arrest and battery on a peace officer, sentenced to probation and jail time.

July 30, 1990, arrested for possession of narcotic paraphernalia, being under the influence of a controlled substance and resisting arrest. sentenced to 200 days in the county jail.

September 27, 1990, arrested for being under the influence of a controlled substance, sentenced to 200 days concurrent.

October 6, 1990, arrested for being under the influence of a controlled substance and possession of narcotic paraphernalia, sentenced to 200 days concurrent.

August 18, 1991, arrested for possession of narcotic paraphernalia, sentenced to 90 days in jail.

September 20, 1991, arrested for being under the influence of controlled substance, sentenced to 90 days concurred.

October 31, 1991, arrested for being under the influence of controlled substance, resisting arrest, battery on a peace officer and battery on emergency personnel, sentenced to 90 days concurrent.

February 20, 1993, arrested for providing a peace officer with false information, sentenced to 15 in jail.

June 5, 1993, arrested for felony receiving stolen property, sentenced to 240 days in jail.



August 11, 1993 arrested for grand theft, sentenced to 16 months in prison.

September 14, 1996, arrested for resisting arrest, sentenced to 20 days in jail.

October 10, 1997, arrested for violation of parole.

May 19, 1998, arrested for possession of narcotic paraphernalia, sentenced to 160 days in jail.

April 7, 1999, arrested for possession of controlled substance and being under influence of controlled substance, sentenced to 16 months in prison.

May 28, 1999, arrested for violation of parole.

July 17, 2000, arrested for indecent exposure, resisting arrest and violation of parole, sentenced to 180 days in jail.

December 26, 2001, arrested for violation of parole.

August 19 2002, arrested for violation of parole.

January 13, 2003, arrested for violation of parole.

March 24, 2003, arrested for violation of parole.

June 3, 2005, arrested for mayhem, inflicting injury on spouse and vandalism, sentenced to two years in prison.

August 21, 2005, arrested for stolen vehicle, receiving stolen property and resisting arrest, sentenced to two years in prison.

September 19, 2006, arrested for violation of parole.

February 17, 2007, arrested for violation of parole.

December 7, 2007, arrested for violation of parole.

February 14, 2008, arrested for violation of parole.

August 20, 2008, arrested for violation of parole.

February 10, 2009, arrested for violation of parole.

July 31, 2009, arrested for violation of parole.

May 14, 2010, arrested for violation of parole.

February 22, 2011, arrested for stolen vehicle, sentenced to 30 days.

February 13, 2011, arrested for driving under the influence and stolen vehicle, sentenced to 180 days in jail.

October 1, 2011, arrested of trespassing, sentenced to 90 days in jail.

December 23, 2011, arrested for felony stolen vehicle, sentenced to 180 days in jail.

August 21, 2012, arrested for violation of probation.

August 21, 2012, arrested for violation of probation, sentenced to 90 days in jail.

Ronald Wayne Ossenberg was released for the last time from the Orange County jail on October 3, 2012, at about 0236 hours, after serving 43 days of a 90 day jail sentence.

Between October 9 and October 14, 2012, Ronald Walter Ossenberg was believed to have stolen a 2010 Toyota Camry, California license 6VXV246, from a car lot in Fullerton, CA. Ossenberg became a primary suspect in this auto theft in part because his father owns the gated complex housing the car lot, which Ossenberg had access to. Additionally, Ossenberg had stolen a vehicle from that location six to eight months prior.

It is believed that Ronald Ossenberg drove the stolen vehicle north up Highway 1. On October 16 or 17, 2012, Ossenberg visits Christa Orndoff and Mark Milligan in Cambria, California. Orndoff allowed Ossenberg to stay with her for about four days. Orndoff observed Ossenberg consume large quantities of alcohol in short amounts of time. Orndoff said Ossenberg got mean when he drank alcohol. Mark Milligan is a neighbor of Orndoff and met Ossenberg in a bar in Cambria. Milligan drank some beer and shot pool with Ossenberg. Ossenberg told Milligan he was in trouble and would not be going back to prison. Ossenberg also told Milligan that Milligan would never see Ossenberg again.

On October 20, 2012, at about 0600 hours, Ossenberg was contacted by Officer Nick Chase of the California Department of Parks and Recreation. Ossenberg was sleeping in the stolen Toyota at the Santa Rosa Day use park located at Hearst San Simeon State park, about 5 miles north of Cambria California.

Ossenberg disobeys multiple orders given to him by Officer Chase. Ossenberg hears Officer Chase’s dispatch advised on the radio that the Toyota had been reported stolen, Ossenberg ran and got into the Toyota and fled the area. Officer Chase had to move behind his vehicle to avert being hit by Ossenberg’s car. Ossenberg left the area at a high rate of speed and Officer Chase was not able to pursue.

Christa Orndoff last sees Ossenberg on October 21, 2012 at about 1900 hours in Cambria. Milligan last sees Ossenberg on October 21, 2012 between 2130 and 2200 hours leaving the bar in Cambria.

On October 23, 2012, at about 1400 hours, Ashley Hendricks reports her backpack and contents was stolen from the Golden Gate Bridge Vista Point area. Hendricks’ backpack contained her wallet, credit cards, checks and some clothing. Hendricks’ backpack and contents was located in Lake County, inside the stolen vehicle Ossenberg is in at the time of this incident.

On October 24, 2012, Ossenberg drives to Lake County. He parks the stolen 2010 Toyota Camry off the right shoulder of the north bound lane of Highway 29, south of “C” street in Lower Lake, California where he apparently falls asleep.

At 1:57 p.m. a Clear Lake Area California Highway Patrol (CHP) officer stopped to check on the 2010 Toyota Camry. The officer discovered Ossenberg, who is 52 year old male, 6’1” tall and weighing about 220 pounds, sitting inside the vehicle.

At 1:58 p.m. The officer has Ossenberg exit the vehicle for an investigation into driving under the influence of alcohol. Ossenberg shows outward signs of being intoxicated. Later it was learned his blood alcohol level is .22%

At 1:59:53 p.m. The officer radios in to the dispatcher requesting warrant check and drivers license information.

At 2:02:34 p.m. CHP dispatch advised the officer that Ossenberg has a no bail felony warrant for his arrest. The officer calls for a cover unit to assist. Upon hearing this information Ossenberg immediately grabs the officer by the neck and then throws her on the ground. Ossenberg gets on top of the officer and begins trying to get her gun out of the officer’s holster. The officer believes Ossenberg had used this take down move before and may have some sort of marital arts training. The officer describes Ossenberg as swift and powerful with the takedown tactic and he did not get tangled up with the officer’s limbs, and was able to maintain control and stay on top of the officer. The fight between Ossenberg and the officer for the officer’s gun continues. The officer believes the officer was in a fight for the officer’s life and that Ossenberg was trying to get the officer’ gun and kill the officer.

During the beginning of the confrontation Ronald Ossenberg makes a statement something to the effect “I have to go”. At the time he is wrestling for the officer’s firearm he is stating something to the effect “Don’t grab your gun, don’t grab your gun”.

Gilberto Lopez III was driving north bound past the officer’s patrol vehicle. He sees Ossenberg grab the officer in a bear hug and threw the officer to the ground. Lopez immediately skids to a stop off the right side of the north bound lane of traffic and gets out of his vehicle. Lopez runs to the officer’s aid and sees Ossenberg grabbing for the officer’s gun. Lopez hears a single shot. He sees Ossenberg go to his vehicle and sees Ossenberg drive onto the highway. Ossenberg crosses the south bound lane and drives off the west side of the roadway. Ossenberg then comes to a stop after going through a wire fence at the edge of the vineyard.

When Gilberto Lopez exit his vehicle and starts running to assist the officer, Ossenberg diverted his attention from the officer to the approaching Lopez. Ossenberg rose up and turned around to see Lopez. As Ossenberg was looking at Lopez, the officer obtained full control of the officer gun, drew and fired one round at Ossenberg who was still on top of the officer.

The bullet went through a leather jacket and a dress shirt before entering Ossenberg’s right side lower back. There is no burning around the entry hole in the jacket. The round fractured the posterior right eleventh rib, perforated the liver and right ventricular wall of the heart, and fractured the anterior left sixth and seventh ribs lodging in the subcutaneous tissue of the anterior left chest wall. The bullet trajectory was back to front, right to left, and upward. This is consistent with the officer shooting Ossenberg as he was on top of the officer while turning to the left to see Lopez.

Ossenberg gets off of the officer and enters his vehicle. He starts driving back onto Highway 29. Ossenberg drives across Highway 29, crossing the south bound lane and off west side shoulder of the roadway. Ossenberg drives through a wire fence and comes to rest at the edge of a vineyard.

At 2:03 p.m. the officer commences radio traffic requesting emergency back up, that the officer has been attacked, and shots have been fired. The officer also gives the direction of travel of the suspect vehicle.

The officer and Lopez went and rendered aid to Ossenberg who was still breathing when first contacted in the car. It became necessary for the officer to break the passenger side window to gain entry into the vehicle. Medical units arrived on scene and took over first aid on Ossenberg. Ossenberg succumbed to the gun shot injury and died on scene.

LEGAL ANALYSIS

The relevant California statutory and case law regarding this matter is set forth below.

California Penal Code Section 197 states in part:

“Homicide is also justifiable when committed by any person in any of the following cases:

1. When resisting any attempt to murder any person, or to commit a felony, or to do some great bodily injury upon any person; or,…

3. When committed in the lawful defense of such person, or of a wife or husband, parent, child, master, mistress, or servant of such person, when there is reasonable ground to apprehend a design to commit a felony or to do some great bodily injury, and imminent danger of such design being accomplished; but such person, or the person in whose behalf the defense was made, if he was the assailant or engaged in mutual combat, must really and in good faith have endeavored to decline any further struggle before the homicide was committed; or,…”

The test for determining justifiable homicide is apparent necessity, i.e., an honest and reasonable belief in the apparent peril and the need for self defense is enough. The means used, whether deadly or nondeadly force, must be reasonable under the circumstances. In People v. Sonier (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 277, 278 the court held “The justification of self defense requires a double showing: that defendant was actually in fear of his life or serious bodily injury and that the conduct of the other party was such as to produce that state of mind in a reasonable person.”

In a recent case, People v. Flores, 2013 Cal. App. LEXIS 372, the court noted “It is well settled that the determination of the extent of such an injury is essentially a question of fact for the trier of fact, not a question of law. "Whether the harm resulting to the victim . . . constitutes great bodily injury is a question of fact . . . . [Citation.] If there is sufficient evidence to sustain the . . . finding of great bodily injury, we are bound to accept it, even though the circumstances might reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding.” citing People v. Escobar (1992) 3 Cal.4th 740, 750 and People v. Kent (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 130, 136-137

California Penal Code Section 196 (Justifiable homicide by public officers) states:

“Homicide is justifiable when committed by public officers and those acting by their command in their aid and assistance, either—

1. In obedience to any judgment of a competent court; or,

2. When necessarily committed in overcoming actual resistance to the execution of some legal process, or in the discharge of any other legal duty; or,

3. When necessarily committed in retaking felons who have been rescued or have escaped, or when necessarily committed in arresting persons charged with felony, and who are fleeing from justice or resisting such arrest.”

In Munoz v. City of Union City (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1102, the court held that an officer “may use reasonable force to make an arrest, prevent escape or overcome resistance, and need not desist in the face of resistance.” “Unlike private citizens, police officers act under color of law to protect the public interest. They are charged with acting affirmatively and using force as part of their duties, because “the right to make an arrest or investigatory stop necessarily carries with it the right to use some degree of physical coercion or threat thereof to effect it.” Munoz, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th at p. 1109. “‘[Police officers] are, in short, not similarly situated to the ordinary battery defendant and need not be treated the [17] same. In these cases, then, “… the defendant police officer is in the exercise of the privilege of protecting the public peace and order [and] he is entitled to the even greater use of force than might be in the same circumstances required for self-defense.

In Martinez v. County of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 334, 349, the court held “The test for determining whether a homicide was justifiable under Penal Code section 196 is whether the circumstances ‘reasonably create[d] a fear of death or serious bodily harm to the officer or to another.” citing Martinez v. County of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 334, and Brown v. Ransweiler, 171 Cal. App. 4th 516, 533

In this matter, the officer was on duty and acting in the officer’s official Peace Officer capacities when the officer stopped to check a vehicle off the side of the highway. Prior to the assault, the officer was advised Ronald Walter Ossenberg had a felony no bail warrant. The officer then requested a cover unit. Ossenberg then attacked the officer by grabbing the officer by the neck and then throwing the officer to the ground. Ossenberg got on top of the officer and tried to wrestle the firearm away from the officer.

The officer thought the officer was in a fight for the officer’s life because Ossenberg did not just knock the officer down and run away; he was fighting for the officer firearm. The officer knew in the officer mind if Ossenberg got the officer’s firearm he would kill the officer. The officer was able to fire one round from the officer’ firearm at Ossenberg to stop him from assaulting the officer and gaining possession of the officer firearm.

FINDINGS

Based on the events of this incident, the officer’s belief that had Ronald Walter Ossenberg obtained the officer firearm he would kill the officer, was a justifiable fear of death or serious bodily harm to the officer. Ossenberg’s violent conduct and his ability to violently over power the officer with such force and skill, was such that a reasonable person in the same situation would be in actual fear of their life or being inflicted with great bodily harm.

Further, there is substantial evidence to sustain the finding that Ossenberg intended to do great bodily injury or death to the officer if he obtained the officer firearm. If Ossenberg gained possession of the officer’s firearm, the officer’s life, as well as Gilberto Lopez’s life and the life of others would be placed in imminent jeopardy.

It is the findings of the Lake County District Attorney that the taking of Ronald Walter Ossenberg’s life was justifiable homicide pursuant Penal Code Sections 196 and 197.

Don A. Anderson

Lake County District Attorney