Off-duty Police Officer Ivan Marcano witnessed a robbery in progress and sustained a gunshot wound to the chest after he took down the suspect. (DCPI)

A Bronx cabbie mugged for a measly $80 said his attackers didn't even think twice about firing on an off-duty cop — who ended up chasing the bandits and killing one of them though seriously wounded himself.

Mario Abarca, 60, said he was jumped by two men as he walked to his car outside his Harrison Ave. apartment in Morris Heights about 6:30 p.m. Wednesday — the first step in a wild chain of events right out of an action movie.

Advertisement

One of the brutes whacked the cab driver in the head and, with a silver handgun, ordered him to hand over everything he had.

"I was afraid that he could shoot me," said Abarca, adding that he forked over all his cash.

Advertisement

No one knew at the time that Officer Ivan Marcano was approaching the crime scene in a car with his girlfriend. With little regard for personal safety, Marcano, 27, got out of the car, pulled his badge, and ordered the bandits to freeze.

Off-duty officer Ivan Marcano risked his life to save a cabbie threatened by gunmen. (New York Police Department/AP)

"Then this kid just turned around and shot him," said Abarca. "(The suspect's) reaction was in one second: Boom!"

Marcano — dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt, but not wearing a bullet-resistant vest — was shot in the chest. The bullet barely missed his heart as it tore through his chest.

Cops identified one of the wanted suspects as 20-year-old Jason Leiva, whose rap sheet includes arrests for robbery and grand larceny.

Leiva, who stands about 5 feet, 8 inches tall and weighs 148 pounds, was still being sought by police on Thursday.

A $22,000 reward is being offered for any information leading to an arrest.

The New York Police Department is seeking the public's assistance in locating Jason Leiva, 20, who is wanted for questioning in connection with the shooting of Officer Ivan Marcano. A $22,000 reward is being offered for information leading to the suspect.

The suspects fled into a white Mustang, driven by a third man, and sped away as the wounded cop jumped back into his girlfriend's car to go to the hospital.

But they got stopped behind the white Mustang at a light on Burnside Ave., where Marcano's girlfriend started to honk the horn to get traffic to move out of the way.

Advertisement

A dramatic clip from surveillance video released by the NYPD Thursday shows the Mustang suddenly darted off the one-way street and crashed into a parked livery cab before jumping the curb.

Marcano ordered bystanders to get down as he took aim on the three suspects, who bailed from the sports car after coming to a stop on the sidewalk.

Marcano took cover behind a cab and fatally shot one of the men — 18-year-old Prince James — in his head.

"He was firing one-handed and using the other hand to keep pressure on his wound," NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly said.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Two of the suspects got away. A $10,000 reward was offered for information leading to an arrest.

After shooting James, Marcano was then able to flag down a nearby ambulance for help. Another clip in the surveillance video released by cops shows the wounded cop talking to medics before he gets inside the ambulance.

Advertisement

He was taken to Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, where he underwent surgery Thursday.

"We're told that he's doing well," said Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. "They removed the bullet. ... He's doing as heroically in his recovery as he did on the streets last night."

Marcano has enjoyed a steady stream of friends and family visiting him at the hospital, friends said.

"He's a beautiful person," said his neighbor, Ana Barientos, 57. "I hope he gets better."

"He loves his job very much," said his longtime pal, Irwin Nandalall, 30. "He's very proud and he's always looking to help people. ... That's just the person he is."