Lewisville police shot and killed an armed man after he threatened a drive-thru customer at an area McDonald's Wednesday night, police say.

According to police, the armed man, 31-year-old Roger Preston Hamill of Durant, Okla, walked up to and threatened a customer at the drive-thru at the McDonald’s on Farm-to-Market Road 3040 at about 10:20 p.m.

An employee inside the restaurant saw the armed man and, fearing the restaurant was about to be robbed, called the police. As the Hamill ran away, the employee was able to get a description of him, his truck and Oklahoma license plate.

Police in the area quickly caught up with Hamill as he tried to slip away through a strip mall parking lot behind McDonald’s. As he approached the frontage road to Interstate 35 near the Vista Ridge Mall, three Lewisville police officers ordered the gunman out of the car.

Capt. Kevin Deaver, with the Lewisville Police Department, said that when Hamill got out of the truck he pointed his weapon at the officers and they opened fire.

Right now, police are not saying how many of the three officers shot at Hamill, though evidence shows at least a dozen rounds were fired.

Deaver said officers have to decide in a split second what it’ll take to make it home to their families at the end of their shift.

“It’s something we don’t want to be involved with. Officers are faced with that dilemma and made the decision,” said Deaver.

Paramedics rushed Hamill to the hospital in an unknown condition where he died 37 minutes later.

Deaver said investigators may never know why he pointed his gun at officers or what his motive was at the restaurant.

“It would be speculation as to what was going on or what was in his mind,” said Deaver. “He could have gotten out peacefully, explained his side of the story, and talked about what was going on, but he didn’t."

Police said the drive-thru customer, who was not injured in the altercation, and Hamill did not know each other and that they aren't sure why the man was targeted. They also say that Hamill didn't demand any money from the customer or restaurant.

All three officers involved in the shooting are on routine administrative leave as the incident is investigated. The Texas Rangers are assisting in the investigation.