Ruben Molina (22) and Edwardo Maduena (19) were killed in a police shootout



Ruben Molina (22) Date: Oct 26, 2012

Cause of Death: Shot

Location: Visalia, CA

URL: view their profile Oct 26, 2012ShotVisalia, CA



Edward Maduena (19) Date: Oct 26, 2012

Cause of Death: Shot

Location: Visalia, CA

URL: view their profile Oct 26, 2012ShotVisalia, CA

A weekend shootout between Visalia police and three men -- two of whom died -- is likely to result in murder charges against a man who survived and two people who stayed in an overturned car as bullets flew, authorities said.



Killed were Ruben Molina, 22, and Edwardo Maduena, 19, both of Earlimart, officials said Monday. Both have criminal records.



Nicholas Chavez, 18, of Pixley, still in an unnamed hospital for treatment of gunshot wounds, faces two counts of murder and one count of attempted murder in connection with the death of his two accomplices, said the Tulare County Sheriff's Department, which is investigating the shooting.



Meanwhile, Robert Ruiz, 21, of Tipton and an unnamed 17-year-old girl from Visalia who stayed in the car face the same charges.



Under state law, anyone involved in a serious felony that results in death can be charged with murder even if they didn't cause the death.





Edwardo Maduena, age 19 of Earlimart



MORE PHOTOS



The incident unfolded about 11:30 p.m. Friday night when police tried to pull over a white Hyundai Sonata that ran a stop sign at Locust Street and Grove Avenue north of downtown Visalia.



The car kept heading south toward Mineral King Boulevard, and a second squad car with a police dog joined the chase.



The car went onto Highway 198 west and drove several miles with police following, then headed north on Highway 99 before quickly taking the Avenue 304 Goshen exit, where the driver lost control and the car rolled over in a dirt lot next to an industrial building on Drive 69.



Police ordered those in the car to show their hands, but three men got out through the windows. The suspects began shooting at the officers, according to the Sheriff's Department. Three police officers returned fire.



Molina died at the scene and Maduena died at a hospital.



Two weapons were found, sheriff's Sgt. Chris Douglass said. The police dog was put into action but called off when shots were heard and was not harmed.



Maduena was a wanted felon known to carry a gun, the Sheriff's Department said.



According to Tulare County Superior Court records, Maduena committed a burglary and car theft in 2011 and was sentenced to six months in jail. He also pleaded no contest to domestic violence and got a month in jail.



In 2009, Molina pleaded no contest to assault with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to six months in jail.



Meanwhile, Ruiz has a record for car theft and resisting arrest in 2011 and was sentenced to five months in jail.



The three officers are on paid administrative leave, under Visalia Police Department policy. Each has seven years law enforcement experience.

Related Article(s): Read more here: http://www.fresnobee.com/2012/10/29/3047348/2-men-fatally-shot-by-visalisa.html#storylink=cpy

« go back to article archive list