The Lewis County Prosecutor’s Office has ruled that a deputy’s Nov. 1 fatal shooting of a knife-wielding Napavine man was justified.

In a prepared statement issued Monday, Prosecutor Jonathan L. Meyer said Lewis County Sheriff’s Deputy Matt Wallace actions were “reasonable and necessary” when he shot 64-year-old Gregory S. Kaufman on State Route 6 in Boistfort.

Meyer’s decision follows an investigation by the Regional Sheriff’s Critical Incident Investigation Team, a group of investigators from nearby counties who conduct independent reviews of officer-involved shootings.

Meyer said Wallace, 37, found Kaufman sitting alone in the passenger seat of a car parked along SR 6 around 12:11 a.m. Kaufman, according to the report, was distraught over an estrangement from his girlfriend and had used a knife to cut himself twice on his chest and several times on his wrist and neck. Wallace radioed for an ambulance crew and asked Kaufman to unlock the door, which he did, authorities said.

But Kaufman refused Wallace’s repeated commands to drop a five-inch knife, the report said. Kaufman, still holding the knife, stepped from the vehicle and advanced on Wallace, who drew his gun and backed away.

The prosecutor’s report said that there soon was nowhere for Wallace to go except into the highway’s traffic lanes. The deputy determined he could not step onto the road on a dark night and so he fired two shots at Kaufman, striking him once in the abdomen and once in the head, from a distance of about 15 feet, according to the report. The shooting happened five minutes after Wallace first encountered Kaufman on the roadside.

An autopsy showed that none of Kaufman’s self-inflicted wounds were fatal and that it was the gunshot wound to the head that killed him. Kaufman also had lung disease and prostate cancer, according to the autopsy.

Kaufman had been arrested Oct. 29 after he was accused of getting drunk and assaulting his girlfriend, authorities said. He was released following the arrest, but police had been looking for him again two days later because he was suspected of leaving a note on his girlfriend’s car in violation of a protection order.

Wallace, who has been a Lewis County deputy for nine years, was placed on administrative leave following the shooting. It was unclear when he will return to duty.

Meyer said Wallace had undergone “countless hours” of training to deal with such situations. “I am certain that he and every other law enforcement officer hopes that such training is never needed in the course of their career. In this case, that training was necessary and was followed.”