FREMONT — A naked San Jose man shot and killed Sunday by officers during a domestic dispute, identified by police as Dejuan Eaton of San Jose, was stricken by the sudden loss of his younger brother earlier that evening, according to his family.

Police responded to the home of Eaton’s wife on the 4500 block of Central Avenue in Fremont about 11 p.m., after her roommate had called 911 and reported Eaton was attacking his spouse, authorities said.

Dejuan Eaton, 37, had just received the news that his 18-year-old brother had accidentally shot himself in the head while handling a loaded firearm earlier that evening, according to his father, Alonzo Eaton. It was at that time that Dejuan Eaton, described as a loving, family man, was pushed to his limit.

“He had just lost his grandfather last Thursday, then to hear about his brother, it blew him over the edge,” Alonzo Eaton said Tuesday. “I lost two sons within an hour of each other.”

Police have not released details of what happened, but the father maintains that his son went to his wife’s Fremont home, where she allowed him to come in and lie down. Alonzo Eaton said Dejuan Eaton reportedly tried to force himself on his wife, who resisted his attempts.

It was likely at this point that Dejuan Eaton snapped, and the wife’s roommate called police, according to Alonzo Eaton. Officers arrived to find the woman fleeing the apartment with Dejuan Eaton close behind her, naked and chasing her with a knife, police said. Officers fired at Eaton after he refused orders to drop his weapon.

The man was taken to a trauma center, where he was pronounced dead, police said.

Eaton, who spent most of his life in the Bay Area, moved back about a year ago to join his wife and two sons, ages 4 and 5, in Fremont, Alonzo Eaton said. The couple, who had been together for 14 years, separated about three months ago, at which point he moved to San Jose and started a new job at a grocery store deli after working at a Sacramento Trader Joe’s for many years.

“Dejuan was a very hardworking man, he loved his kids, and his wife,” Alonzo Eaton said. ‘Everybody loved him … they called him ‘Teddy Bear.’ “

The family, who held a vigil for their sons Monday evening, will hold a joint funeral service for both Dejuan and his younger brother, Tyqueece Eaton, next Thursday, when Alonzo Eaton plans to bury his sons together.

“I love my son. I love him so much,” Alonzo Eaton said. “There are so many unanswered questions. We just want to know why. They could have Tased him.”

The father maintained his son was shot eight times, but police have not released any information about how many times Dejuan was hit.

The officers involved in the shooting have 3 and 20 years’ experience and have been placed on paid administrative leave per department policy, Fremont police spokeswoman Geneva Bosques said. The incident is being investigated jointly by the Fremont Police Department’s Investigative Unit and the Alameda County District Attorney’s Office.

Dejuan Eaton is survived by his mother and father, five brothers and one sister, along with his wife and two young sons, who remain at their home in Fremont.

“His kids have been crying, asking questions,” Alonzo Eaton said. “It’s just so sad.”

Contact Erin Ivie at 925-847-2122. Follow her at Twitter.com/erin_ivie.