Brett Kelman

The Desert Sun

County prosecutors said Thursday that they will not file charges against two Palm Springs police officers who shot and killed an unarmed Marine in the downtown parking garage in 2012.

Cpl. Allan DeVillena II was killed by officers Chad Nordman and Mike Heron in the early morning hours of Nov. 10, 2012, the birthday of the Marine Corps.

The Riverside County District Attorneys Office has been reviewing the shooting for about 14 months.

"After careful review of the incident, the District Attorney's Office has concluded that no criminal charges will be filed against either officer," said DA's spokesman John Hall in an brief email.

RELATED: Cpl. Allan DeVillena II death: Witness disputes police

Hall refused to answer questions or provide further comment.

The DA's decision, which comes nearly two years after DeVillena's death, unshackles a lawsuit filed by the DeVillena family, which has been unable to proceed while prosecutors pondered the case.

The family's attorney, Benjamin Schonbrun, issued a statement on Thursday afternoon, questioning the timing of the DA decision. District Attorney Paul Zellerbach lost his bid for re-election earlier this year, and is set to leave office in January.

"The parents of Marine Cpl. Allan ("A.J.") DeVillena II are disappointed by the announcement that the Riverside DA is declining to file charges against the police officers involved in the shooting death of their son. They are, however, committed to seeking justice and accountability and will proceed with their federal civil rights lawsuit against the Palm Springs Police Department and the individual officers," the statement said.

Doug Holland, an attorney for the city of Palm Springs, said his comments were limited by the federal lawsuit.

"This is clear evidence that the DA's office does not believe this warranted criminal prosecution," Holland said. "We are still defending the city and still believe that our police officers followed all appropriate protocols in the way they handled this situation."

DeVillena, 22, died in the driver's seat of his car in the bottom floor of the parking garage, six bullet holes in his upper body.

Police have said that DeVillena, who was drunk, drove his car at two officers, striking one of them in the leg, prompting them both to open fire.

However, at least one witness has disputed this story, insisting that the shooting was "malicious" and that the police were "murderers."

On the night of the shooting, DeVillena and another Marine, Pfc. Clinton Harris traveled from the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms to enjoy the nightlife in Palm Springs.

At some point during the evening, DeVillena and Harris encountered two police officers — Nordman and Heron — outside of Village Pub, a popular downtown bar. The officers were responding to a report of public drunkenness, but this is a common crime in the downtown area, so the officers let the two Marines go.

About 2 a.m., DeVillena and Harris returned to the downtown parking garage to retrieve their car, where a second meeting with police turned deadly.

The officers were drawn to the garage by the sounds of yelling, according to a police news release, issued a few days after the shooting. Inside, the officers saw two Marines — the same Marines from the public intoxication call — about to drive off in a black Chrysler 300. The officers shouted for the Marines to stop, but the Marines ignored orders and shouted insults, police said.

"One of the officers (Nordman) climbed partially through the passenger side window, attempting to stop the vehicle," the police press release said. "The suspect accelerated directly toward the second officer (Heron,) striking him and continued on with the initial officer suspended from the passenger side window. ... In the course of these events, fearing for their safety and the safety of others both officers discharged their weapons."

Authorities have never said how many shots were fired or which officer hit their target. The police department launched dual investigations — one criminal, one administrative — but the findings of neither have been made public. In accordance with department policy, Nordman and Heron were placed on paid administrative leave. Within two months, both officers were back on active duty.

The Palm Springs Police Department has a policy that discourages shooting at a moving vehicle, which the policy states is "rarely effective." Officers are only supposed to fire at a vehicle if it is heading toward them and there is no way to get out of the way, or if there is another threat of deadly force, like a gun pointed out the window.

Four months after the shooting, the DeVillena family filed a lawsuit in federal court, insisting the shooting was unjustified.

This lawsuit has been unable to proceed for months because the key witnesses in the case — Nordman, Heron and Harris — have pleaded the Fifth Amendment, refusing to speak about the shooting. Because the DA's office had yet not decided if it was going to prosecute the shooting, these witnesses were unwilling to incriminate themselves by testifying in the lawsuit.

Now that a DA's office has decided not to prosecute the two officers, the lawsuit may be able to proceed. It is unclear if prosecutors still plan to prosecute Harris.

One of the witnesses in the lawsuit is Lesley Lynn Diggins, a valley resident who was only a car-length away from the shooting.

Diggins has said in a sworn court deposition that DeVillena never struck a police officer with his car, nor was he driving at an officer when police opened fire. In the moments after the shooting, she screamed at officers that they were "murderers."

"I just believe it was malicious," Diggins told the Desert Sun in a prior interview. "There was no need for self-defense. There was nothing they needed to defend themselves from."

On the night of a shooting, Diggins was the designated driver for a bachelorette party that began at a house in Whitewater and then moved to celebrate in Palm Springs.

At about 2 a.m., Diggins was in the front seat of a white Toyota Camry, parked at the bottom of the downtown garage. Her friends stood outside the car, talking. She was trying to convince her friends to leave when a black Chrysler with two young men drove down a ramp that led to the bottom floor of the garage and stopped behind the Camry.

The men inside were DeVillena, the driver, and Harris, the passenger. Harris hopped out of the Chrysler and began chatting with the women in the bachelorette party. Diggins overheard him say he was a Marine.

A few minutes later, two men walked around the corner of the garage, approaching the small group. One of the women in the bachelorette party shouted that the police had arrived, but Diggins thought they were private security. They wore dark-colored windbreakers, and never announced themselves as officers, Diggins said in her deposition.

The men were Heron and Nordman. The word "police" was scrolled across the back of their windbreakers, but Diggins couldn't see that until the shooting was over.

When the officers approached, everybody scattered. Harris walked briskly back to the Chrysler, climbing back into the passenger seat. The women jumped into their cars, urging Diggins to drive off. Instead, she opened the door to the Camry, standing out of the driver's seat, giving herself an unobstructed view of what would happen next.

The police flanked each side of the Chrysler just as the vehicle started to move. One of the officers shouted "Stop!" but the Marines' vehicle eased forward towards the dead end at the base of the garage. The police followed on foot, holding position on either side of the car, Diggins said.

After pulling forward, DeVillena turned the Chrysler left into a parking space, then backed up, attempting a three-point turn so he and Harris could leave the garage. At some point as the vehicle turned, Nordman climbed into the passenger side window, reaching across Harris in an attempt to stop the car. vehicle. Diggins said she didn't see the officer leap inside, but she could see his feet sticking out of the window.

The other officer, Heron, stood near the left rear corner of her Camry, about a car-length from Diggins. His gun was drawn.

The Chrysler moved forward in a direction to exit the bottom floor of the parking garage. The standing officer was not in the path of the vehicle, Diggins said in her sworn deposition, and opened fire. One of his bullets shattered the rear-left window as the Chrysler drove past. The vehicle careened into a concrete wall on the north-side of the garage.

Diggins said friends urged her to leave after the shooting, but she insisted on staying so she could report the officers.

A second witness, Jawanda Terry, another member of the bachelorette party, has also said in a separate deposition that a police officer fired at a Chrysler from behind, shooting three or four bullets through the rear window of the black sedan.

There may have been as many as 10 people — all members of the bachelorette party — who witnessed the shooting. It is unclear how many of these witnesses have been deposed. The Desert Sun has attempted to contact several other witnesses, but has been unable to interview them about the shooting.