Eric Woomer

ewoomer@visaliatimesdelta.com

A 16-year-old boy was shot after a confrontation with a Tulare police officer Thursday night.

Witnesses say a boy, who they identified as Jessie Luna, a student at Superior Community School in Tulare, was shot twice after running from police in an alley near South D Street and Kern Avenue.

The police officer, Jessie Guzman, was questioning another person when Luna caught his attention. Luna fled on foot and the officer followed. Witnesses say the officer shot his Taser, but Luna pulled the prongs out. He stopped in an alley and turned toward the officer when he was shot twice, once in the shoulder and once in the chest.

Luna’s condition wasn’t known.

Sgt. Darron Altermatt said officers found a gun nearby, but didn’t disclose where it was found. Witnesses say Luna never reached for a gun. The police officer believed Luna had thrown the gun.

“He froze. He turned and put up his hands up and the officer just shot. [The officer] didn’t miss at all. Then he treated him like an animal. He flipped him over to handcuff him. He just shot him,” said Sarah Hermosilla, 17, a friend of Luna who saw the shooting. “Police won’t even let his mom see him. These cops are taking advantage of their badge.”

Friends say Luna’s mother informed them late last night that she hadn’t been allowed to see her son because he was considered “in custody.” Karen Pendrod, a friend of Luna, said one bullet missed his heart by two inches. Several people in the area video recorded the incident on their cellphones. They said they were never contacted by police to give a statement.

They’re hoping Tulare County Sheriff’s detectives will review the video. As per department policy, the Tulare County Sheriff’s Department is investigating the shooting.

Altermatt said the officer involved in Thursday’s shooting has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is department policy.

The officer-involved shooting occurred in the same location where 17-year-old James Scooley was fatally shot on March 19. Police said the officer was in the area after reporting an increase in gang activity over the last few weeks.

Police are looking at Northern gang ties for Luna.

Officer-involved

shootings since 2009

Oct. 20, 2009

Joe Edwin Bowles, 25, of Tulare was shot during an altercation with Porterville police Detective Chris McGuire, a member of an anti-vehicle theft team, at the Evolutions and Rehabilitation Fitness Center in Tulare. McGuire returned to duty after a paid administrative investigation.

A federal lawsuit was filed in connection with the shooting.

Apr. 25, 2010

Eli Torres, 15, of Tulare was fatally shot by Tulare police officers in the 200 block of North California Street. Police said the teen was armed with a .30-caliber M1 carbine rifle.

Dec. 29, 2011

Gary Gahart, 28, was killed by Tulare police officers who were aiding Porterville police in a kidnapping investigation. The shooting occurred in the 600 block of North Blackstone Street.

Tulare police said Gahart was armed and officers were forced to use lethal force to protect themselves.

Police added that three weapons — two shotguns and one handgun — were recovered from the vehicle that Gahart was driving, a late-model Chevrolet Malibu.

Feb. 2, 2012

Five weeks after Gahart was shot, Tulare officers shot 22-year-old Ben Velasquez in west Tulare.

Velasquez’s girlfriend at the time, Shai Herrera, 18, said they were inside an apartment in the 400 block of Meadow Drive. She was contacted by police because of a noise complaint, she said. When Velasquez went outside to see what the commotion was about, he saw police and turned to go inside.

He was then shot, said Herrera, who was later arrested on suspicion of being under the influence of alcohol. Police say they were at the apartment because of a call that shots had been fired. Herrera says the only gunshots came from police.

Velasquez underwent life-saving surgery and is now suing the city of Tulare in federal court.

Nov. 13, 2012

Cecil Ray Elkins, 32, died after a California Highway Patrol officer fired several times on the suspected car thief.

Elkins, who was involved in an officer-involved shooting with Tulare police just a day before his death, managed to evade police on Nov. 12, 2012. Tulare police fired upon the stolen car Elkins was driving when he rammed into a Tulare patrol car.

He fled south and was located in Pixley the next day.

The Sheriff’s Department, which investigated the shooting, said law enforcement members approached Elkins, who was inside a parked vehicle. He then ran, passing a convenience store and getting to a dirt lot.

A CHP officer — a member of the task force that tracked Elkins to Pixley — fired several times upon the Tulare man, killing him, the Sheriff’s Department said.

The CHP officer, a nine-year law enforcement veteran, was placed on administrative leave following procedure.

Pixley’s Cecil Ray Elkins Sr. said the officer-involved shooting that left his 32-year-old son dead was unjustified.

Jan. 17, 2013

A Tulare man was killed following an officer-involved shooting in west Tulare.

Witnesses say officers found Samuel Gonzales in a nearby abandoned house and, scared, Gonzales fled. A struggle ensued about three houses down from where Gonzales was staying. Witnesses say he broke free from police and ran again.

He was shot in the stomach with a shotgun in the 200 block of South F Street, less than a block from the abandoned house where he was spending the night.

Police say they believed they were chasing someone connected to a burglary at the nearby La Palma Bakery. However, the store’s owner, Fernando Garcia, says Gonzales wasn’t the one who fled with beer. He blamed a group of teenagers who’d been in the store earlier that night.

April 30, 2013

Joseph Langston, 39, of Strathmore was shot by a Tulare police officer near Strathmore after fleeing from officers in Tulare.

The officer who fired a gun was placed on administrative leave pending the internal investigation, Altermatt said. The officer’s name was not released.

According to police, the shooting occurred off of a dirt road in a grove in the Strathmore area.

The chase started at Bardsley Avenue and K Street in Tulare and ended in Strathmore just across the street from Sunnyside Elementary School. The school was placed on lockdown for part of the afternoon.

The Tulare Police Department said they would pursue charges of drug possession, sale and transportation of methamphetamine as well as felony evasion of a police officer for Langston.