The 23-year-old Tucson man shot and killed by a Pima County sheriff's deputy last week was being followed by six deputies as part of a drug investigation, court documents show.

The Sheriff's Department received a tip three weeks ago that Vladimir Cardenas was selling heroin and/or methamphetamine, and it launched an investigation, according to a search warrant affidavit filed in Pima County Superior Court Tuesday.

On Friday, investigators learned Cardenas had an active misdemeanor warrant and a suspended driver's license. Deputies found a vehicle they believed to be driven by Cardenas around 5 p.m. in a north-side neighborhood, and three undercover vehicles and three marked patrol vehicles began to follow it to verify that Cardenas was behind the wheel.

Deputies identified Cardenas as the driver when he met with the drivers of two vehicles in the parking lot of a drugstore near Oracle and Wetmore roads, according to court documents. The deputies followed Cardenas from there to Prince Road and Oracle, where Deputy Nicholas Norris, who was in his uniform and marked vehicle, pulled him over.

Court documents say Norris asked Cardenas to get out of the car, but Cardenas told him he couldn't get out of the driver's side and began "digging around" near the center console of the car.

Cardenas then got out of the passenger side as Norris made his way around the car, court documents state.

Norris saw something in Cardenas' hand and he deployed his stun gun, court documents state. Norris realized the item was a gun as Cardenas raised it. Norris then dropped his stun gun and shot Cardenas.

Cardenas was pronounced dead at University Medical Center.

Court documents indicate deputies found $440, methamphetamine, another unspecified drug, a meth pipe and a scale in the car. They also found two handguns, a rifle, a shotgun and ammunition in the car.

Deputies collected six shell casings at the scene.

Norris is scheduled to return to work Thursday after being placed on routine administrative leave.

Arizona Department of Corrections online records show Cardenas was released from prison in May.

Pima County Superior Court Judge Teresa Godoy sentenced Cardenas to 2 1/2 years in prison and 18 months' probation in April 2010 after he pleaded guilty to a total of three drug charges in two separate cases.

On Sept. 17, 2009, Oro Valley police officers saw Cardenas sell drugs to another man in a parking lot near First Avenue and Prince Road and then meet with another person near River Road and La Cañada Drive. The officers pulled Cardenas over.

"Cardenas failed to comply with demands and was fiddling with the center console until an officer drew his weapon," according to court records.

After Cardenas' arrest, officers found 51 grams of heroin in the car, court records show.

Two months later, Cardenas was arrested again when police found nearly $2,500 and 0.983 grams of heroin in his car during a traffic stop near Roger Road and North Stone Avenue.

Contact reporter Kim Smith at 573-4241 or kimsmith@azstarnet.com