Police Chief Ed Flynn addresses recent police shootings. Credit: Gary Porter

SHARE

By of the

Investigators have yet to find a weapon in the area in which a police officer shot and killed a man the officer believed had just committed an armed robbery, Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn said Monday.

Daniel J. Kleinmann, 28, of Germantown was shot shortly after 4 p.m. Saturday in the 3800 block of S. 1st St.

Including Kleinmann, five males have died violently since Wednesday. Two of the dead are teenagers.

In the Kleinmann shooting, Flynn said, a man who summoned police said Kleinmann had robbed him at gunpoint near S. 17th St. and W. Layton Ave. Kleinmann drove off, then crashed his car at S. 3rd St. and W. Tripoli Ave.

Officer Shawn Pecoraro, who responded to the report of an armed robbery, was flagged down by several witnesses who directed him toward Kleinmann.

"When the officer encountered Kleinmann," Flynn said, "the actions of the suspect led the officer to reasonably believe that his life was in danger and he discharged his weapon," Flynn said.

Flynn would not elaborate on what Kleinmann had done to cause the officer to fear for his safety.

"No gun has been recovered at this time," he said.

Pecoraro , 39, is a 15-year veteran of the Police Department, Flynn said. He will remain on administrative duty while the shooting is reviewed by the Police Department and the Milwaukee County district attorney's office.

At the time of his death, Kleinmann was a Huber law inmate at the Washington County Jail.

The Washington County sheriff's office said Kleinmann was booked into the jail Nov. 8 and then, on Nov. 16, began serving an eight-month sentence for identity theft.

He was released Nov. 19 for a dentist appointment and did not return. A felony warrant was issued for his arrest.

Flynn called the use of deadly force by Milwaukee police "very rare."

Since 2007, he said, Milwaukee police have used deadly force 15 times. Since 2002, deadly force has been used 34 times.

In the last five years, nine officers have been shot and wounded, he said.

"When an officer is engaged with a suspect who is reported to be armed or who is displaying a weapon, the officer has very little time to make a judgment as to what to do," he said.

"They have to weigh a number of variables in an extremely short period of time - the dangers to others by them using their weapon, the dangers to others by them not using their weapons, the degree of threat - they have to process an extraordinary amount of information in a very brief time," he said.

"These are, for all intents and purposes, combat situations," Flynn said.

It was a bloody holiday week:

At 6:40 p.m. Wednesday, Andrew Brown, 25, was stabbed to death during a family quarrel at home in the 2900 block of W. Vliet St. A 15-year-old relative is in custody, Flynn said.

Five hours later, Clemon G. Ferguson Jr., 18, was shot during an armed robbery at a barber shop in the 2400 block of King Drive. Ferguson, Flynn said, was shot by a 26-year-old customer as Ferguson and another armed man were robbing the business. The Milwaukee County district attorney's office ruled the shooting self-defense. Ferguson's 21-year-old accomplice was arrested and is facing a felony murder charge, Flynn said.

Less than two hours later, at 1:13 a.m. Thursday, Jesse W. Brown, 34, was shot and killed in what Flynn said appeared to be a drug house in the 2100 block of S. 14th St. No one has been arrested in what Flynn said "appears to be a drug-related robbery."

At 11:45 p.m. Friday, Leandro Marin, 17, was shot by an 18-year-old friend as they sat in a car in the 1800 block of S. 32nd St.; the 18-year-old faces a reckless homicide charge, Flynn said.

On Sunday, police responded to multiple reports of a man with a gun near N. 14th St. and W. Center St.

Police spotted a group of people at N. 17th St. and W. Locust St. The group scattered, Flynn said, and Officer Joseph Warren chased a person who matched the description of the man with a gun. As Warren caught up, the suspect raised what appeared to be a gun.

"Fearing for his life and the lives of others in the area, Officer Warren discharged his weapon," Flynn said.

No one was struck, and a 14-year-old was arrested. His weapon, a facsimile gun, was recovered, Flynn said.

Warren, 37, has 14 years of service with the department, Flynn said. He remains on full duty.