LEONIA — Three police officers gunned down a knife-wielding man who allegedly robbed a CVS pharmacy on Sunday, authorities said.

Bergen County Prosecutor John L. Molinelli said in a statement issued late Sunday evening that the armed robbery suspect killed in a confrontation with police was 47-year-old Leonia resident Rickey L. McFadden.

Molinelli said McFadden allegedly entered the Broad Avenue pharmacy around 4:30 p.m. Sunday wielding a "large knife" and left the store with cash and other stolen goods. Borough police and officers from neighboring Palisades Park responded to a 911 call and found McFadden headed north along Broad Ave. and down Hillside Avenue.

Four police officers, one from Leonia and three from Palisades Park, attempted to apprehend McFadden, who was still wielding the knife when they found him, Molinelli said. About two blocks from the store, three of the officers opened fire on the man during a confrontation.

He was taken to Hackensack University Medical Center, where he was later pronounced dead.

Broad Avenue and surrounding streets were closed Sunday evening as police conducted an investigation. An investigator from the Bergen County Sheriff's Office was seen photographing the blood-stained pavement at the corner of Hillside Avenue and Kinglsey Street, not far from the pharmacy.

The prosecutor's office said Sunday that the knife, a can of mace "believed to have been used by one of the officers" and stolen goods from the CVS store were recovered from the scene, as well as "numerous other items which cannot be disclosed at this time."

"No officer was harmed during the encounter, but all three did go to Englewood Hospital for observation, and it is believed that all have been released at this time," Molinelli said. "The identities of the officers involved will be given by the chiefs of the Leonia and Palisades Park Police. All three have retained an attorney and have not been questioned at this time. It is expected that they will be questioned shortly."

The prosecutor's office said earlier this evening that a police shooting investigation team from their agency would conduct an investigation in accordance with the state attorney general's office guidelines.

"There were many witnesses to the robbery and subsequent events," Molinelli said. "Therefore, no further details can be provided by this office at this time."

NJ.com reporter Myles Ma contributed to this report.

Related coverage:

• Police shoot, kill robbery suspect in Leonia

• More Bergen County news: NJ.com/bergen | Twitter | Facebook