BRUNSWICK –

Police had few interactions with Terrence Abel, 39, before receiving a 911 call from Abel’s brother at 1:30 p.m. Nov. 30 that led to a

30-hour standoff

with police and Abel being shot and killed by members of the Southwest Enforcement Bureau SWAT team.

“On Oct. 1 we had a welfare check call and on Nov. 3 we were called to a domestic dispute involving Mr. Abel; he left for the evening and was very cooperative,” Brunswick Police Chief Carl Deforest said today. “He did have a lengthy criminal history though, including felony resisting arrest, felony theft, and breaking and entering.”

None of that history, however, was of the “high level” variety that could have predicted the Nov. 30 call, which also resulted in the wounding of Abel’s estranged girlfriend, 46-year-old Rhana Fahringer, Deforest said.

In his 911 call, Abel’s brother said the suspect indicated he was going to Fahringer’s house to assault her. According to the police, the couple had lived at the house together in the past.

Police arrived at the 1528 Jefferson Avenue home at 1:42 p.m. and found the back door damaged and barricaded. Voices of a man and woman arguing could be heard from inside.

“We later found that he was in possession of a handgun,” Deforest said of the outset of what would become a nearly non-stop 30-hour phone conversation between Abel and hostage negotiators from the Southwest Enforcement Bureau (SEB) team – interrupted only to charge cell phones and for Abel to take cigarette breaks.

“We set up an inner perimeter and contacted SEB at 2:34 p.m.,” Deforest said.

As tactical and negotiation teams from SEB – made up of personnel from 18 surrounding communities, mostly in Cuyahoga County - arrived, Brunswick Police contacted the Brunswick City Schools to make arrangements for buses and students passing through neighborhood on the way home from school to be re-routed or, in some cases, returned to school.

Fahringer’s two children were among those students, Deforest said.

“She has a 16-year-old boy who goes to Medina County CVS, and she also has a 12-year-old daughter,” the chief said. “I commend Sgt. Mike Matheis, the sergeant on duty at the time, for coming up with the idea of contacting the schools. The schools and all city services were very cooperative and professional from the time the first call came in to the end.”

The SEB team brought in a mobile command post and Medina County Emergency Management brought another vehicle to house negotiators as they talked with Abel, the chief said. Meanwhile, an outer perimeter was established, detouring traffic and residents from the area, including residents in nine neighboring homes who were taken to local hotels for the duration of the crisis.

At one point, as many as 65 members of law enforcement were on the scene, Deforest said.

“We did find out he was in possession of a 9 millimeter handgun,” Deforest said. “And his original intention was to go to the house, shoot her, and then kill himself. He also said he had a desire to shoot a police officer. So there were no real demands. The only thing he ever asked for was a little more time with his girlfriend.”

Deforest said the goal of hostage negotiations is to establish a timeline for a controlled surrender. In this case, Abel would agree to such timelines, ask for a respite – in some cases to smoke a cigarette and relax - then return to the phone to tell negotiators that he had changed his mind.

“He had been in prison and said he did not want to return,” Deforest said. “Of course the negotiators told him that he would have every opportunity to be provided an attorney. (But) throughout the negotiations he kept going back and forth. It would not be accurate to say the negotiations broke down – he was on the phone for the majority of the 30 hours. But it became apparent, to us, that he had no intention to release her.”

At 7:30 p.m. Dec. 1 members of the SEB tactical unit entered the home. Abel raised a weapon and aimed it at Fahringer, at which point SWAT officers shot and killed Abel.

Fahringer was taken to Metro General Medical Center with gunshot wounds to her left hand, right arm, and right leg.

The Bureau of Criminal Investigation is currently conducting its investigation into the incident, including where each of the shots came from. Deforest confirmed however, that no Brunswick officers were involved in the shooting.

“There has been some inaccurate information published that Brunswick officers shot (Abel),” he said. “That is inaccurate. I can’t say enough about the staff we have and the rest of the city (staff), including the service department, who came out and boarded up the home after some windows and doors had to be broken to gain entry.”

The last incident in which Brunswick police were involved in a protracted crisis situation with a suspect was in 1995, when John Lekan killed himself and his 9-year-old son and wounded two officers after a four-day standoff.

Deforest said additional training, equipment, and the formation of SEB has greatly enhanced the department’s ability to deal with such situations.

“You add equipment and train for such situations, and they are rare,” Deforest said. “You hope it doesn’t ever happen, but when it does, you can’t hope it away.”

Police officials will hold a press conference on the incident at 2 p.m. today at city hall, 4095 Center Road.

Contact Lisik at 216-986-2356 or blisik@sunnews.com.

Follow me on Twitter @brianlisik_sun

More Brunswick stories

Return to Brunswick home page