CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported the number of shootings by the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department. The department was involved in 26 fatal shootings in its jurisdictions between 2007 and 2011. Between 2007 and 2011,a total of 41 fatal police shootings were reported by all police agencies in Riverside County,more per capita than Orange, San Bernardino or San Diego counties.

California’s system for tracking deadly police shootings is plagued by confusion and inadequate oversight, further clouding public knowledge of an officer’s greatest power.

At least one in every five fatal shootings across Southern California isn’t counted in official statewide and national homicide reports, a Freedom Communications investigation has found. Police shoot and kill more often than the numbers reflect.

Freedom, the parent company of The Press-Enterprise, identified widespread reporting flaws by comparing state data and district attorney records from hundreds of shootings between 2007 and 2011, the latest year available. At least 66 fatal shootings weren’t disclosed as required by state law.

The unreported shootings involved 30 law enforcement agencies, most of which were unaware the cases hadn’t been counted in official reports until contacted by reporters. Most acknowledged error and promised an internal review of reporting practices.

After Ontario police were informed about one unreported case, they found three others had been overlooked, too.

One agency, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, has already adopted new policies aimed at preventing mistakes in response to the Freedom’s findings. Others have provided additional training to records staff and homicide detectives.

“The training issues have been corrected,” said Jodi Miller, a spokeswoman for the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department, which didn’t report at least 14 fatal shootings during the five-year period.

The shootings involved agencies large and small, urban and rural, in Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino and San Diego counties. The analysis was unable to similarly review Riverside County, because its district attorney doesn’t maintain records of police shooting investigations after one year.

By failing to report so many shootings, agencies have impaired the public’s ability to monitor broad trends in deadly force. A comprehensive account of shootings could be used to pinpoint patterns in the industry or at individual agencies.

An analysis of the official statistics reported between 2007 and 2011 found:

• Police agencies in Riverside County reported 41 fatal shootings during the period – more per capita than agencies in Orange, San Bernardino or San Diego counties.

• With 193 shootings, Los Angeles County agencies reported the highest rate in the region.

• The annual number of fatal shootings reported by Riverside County law enforcement agencies varied despite falling levels of violent crime. Though crime fell by 28 percent between 2007 and 2011, the number of cases grew from five to 10.

• Latinos and African-Americans in Riverside County were fatally shot in disproportionate numbers. Latinos represent 45 percent of the county population but were about 54 percent of those fatally shot. Though 6 percent of residents are black, African Americans accounted for about 12 percent of those fatally shot during the period.

• San Bernardino County agencies reported a smaller racial gap for Latinos but a larger one for African Americans. Latinos are 49 percent of the population and were about 47 percent those fatally shot. While 8 percent of residents are black, African Americans represented about 32 percent of those killed.

• Authorities reported more fatal shootings per capita in San Bernardino and Inglewood than any other large city in the region. The cities had eight and seven deaths per 100,000 residents, respectively. By comparison, the Southern California agencies collectively reported about two deaths per 100,000 residents.

ACCURACY CRITICAL

Each pattern raises concerns, but the underlying statistics are too flawed to rely upon as accurate benchmarks. Historical, demographic and agency-level comparisons could shift substantially by including scores of unreported shootings, experts in law enforcement data said.

“You can get really misleading ideas,” said David Klinger, an associate professor who researches police force at the University of Missouri, St. Louis. “The statistics as far as I’m concerned are highly flawed.”

In a study two years ago, Klinger urged fellow criminologists to disregard nationwide fatal police shooting statistics because the underlying data were incomplete. He cited the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department as two examples. The agencies logged 340 fatal shootings internally between 1996 and 2008, Klinger wrote, but reported about half as many incidents to state and federal authorities.

The accuracy of police shooting statistics carries special weight in Southern California, where police rarely discuss their shootings, few oversight agencies exist, and many records are blocked by laws protecting officers’ privacy. Some district attorneys produce detailed reports about the incidents, but not in Riverside County.

Unlike other prosecutors, the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office isn’t even sure how many fatal police shootings it has historically reviewed. By policy, the office either returns investigative files about the incidents to police or destroys them after one year.

“We are not the custodian of those records,” office spokesman John Hall said in an email.

The district attorney does allow members of the public to view redacted investigative files upon request but people rarely do. When a reporter visited the office last year, prosecutors said it was only the third such occasion in recent memory.

Riverside County residents have certainly experienced their share of shootings. The Sheriff’s Department alone was involved in 26 fatal shootings between 2007 and 2011, according to internal statistics.

Asked to weigh its reporting to the state, the Sheriff’s Department was confident that all of its fatal shootings have been properly logged.

VARIOUS CAUSES

Southern California agencies blamed clerical slips, lacking oversight and jurisdictional disputes for the 66 unreported shootings between 2007 and 2011. In some cases involving multiple agencies, each assumed the other would report the case, but no one did. Poor communication was a common theme.

“It gets confusing as to who’s going to do the notification,” said Lt. Jorge Duran, who previously served in the San Diego Police Department’s internal affairs and homicide units and is now an acting captain. “It’s not like we’re trying to hide it. The reporting mechanism that is set up is kind of weak.”

Contributing to the mess are two state laws that appear to provide conflicting direction on who is responsible for reporting fatal shootings. State officials say the duty rests with the investigating agency, while some local agencies say it depends on the shooting’s location.

Meanwhile, awareness of the unreported shootings has opened a new rift between California Department of Justice and local police seeking to correct their errors. The state agency only allows a three-month window to amend homicide statistics from the previous year, and all 66 shootings are more than two years old.

“They wouldn’t allow us to go back in time and make any updates,” Miller said about the San Bernardino Sheriff’s attempt to add its 14 unreported cases.

The Department of Justice has no plans to change its policies on amending statistics in light of 66 shootings, spokesman Nicholas Pacilio said.

HIGH-PROFILE CASES

Police stressed that the underreporting wasn’t an intentional effort to avoid public accountability. Indeed, some of the unreported cases have already garnered extraordinary legal or media scrutiny.

Those cases include Michael Byoune, killed by Inglewood police in May 2008; Julian Alexander, killed by Anaheim police in October 2008; Daniel Balandran, killed by Chino police in February 2009; and Dejon White, killed by San Diego authorities in August 2011.

Alexander was mistaken by police for a burglary suspect and killed. Balandran and Byoune were innocent bystanders. White ambushed and killed a San Diego police officer, prompting a high-profile manhunt that led to his death.

Police said they counted each case in their internal statistics but failed to also notify the state Department of Justice as required by a decades-old law. Since 1969, police have been required to report all “justifiable homicides,” such as a shooting made in self-defense or defense of others, to the state DOJ.

San Bernardino police Lt. Rich Lawhead said he doesn’t know what to make of the statistics, which show his city having an unusually high rate of fatal shootings per capita. San Bernardino has significant violent crime and parolee issues – factors Lawhead said can contribute to more shootings.

But Southern California’s deadliest city?

“I’m not able to tell you whether the statewide data is accurate,” Lawhead said. “It may not surprise me. We have all the elements here to make that a true story.”

However, Lawhead noted that not every fatal shooting in San Bernardino involves city police officers. Past cases have also included officers from Fontana, school police agencies and the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.

UNRELIABLE DATA

When local police do report their shootings, the numbers flow into annual reports produced by the state Department of Justice and FBI. Researchers, lawmakers and the public are meant to rely on these reports as benchmarks for deadly force. But the FBI data are incomplete.

While California law requires police to report their fatal shootings, participation varies elsewhere in the country because no federal mandate exists. Between 2007 and 2011, the nationwide FBI data included no information from six states, including New York and Florida, and erratic numbers from another 17 states. Washington, D.C., police reported fatal shootings in 2009 and 2011.

Today no accurate measure of fatal police shootings nationwide exists, experts on law enforcement statistics said.

Still, George Wright, chairman of Santa Ana Community College’s criminal justice department, said the magnitude of reporting errors across Southern California is stunning.

“I would never have thought that,” he said. “I’ve always been told that shootings are so heavily investigated that I would expect the proper reporting would be done.”

Contact the writer: Share your thoughts with staff writer Keegan Kyle, kkyle@ocregister.com or 714-796-4976.