This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

GREENSBORO, N.C. — Police said a Greensboro man that resisted arrest on Friday following an incident at a Food Lion has died as a result of injuries sustained during the incident.

Zenon San Martn Ramirez was taken into custody on Friday when a loss prevention officer at the Food Lion on E. Market Street called police for assistance after Ramirez allegedly stole alcoholic beverages, police said in a news release.

According to police, the loss prevention officer struggled with Ramirez in order to detain him until police arrived.

Ramirez was described as “uncooperative” during the incident, according to police.

While the two responding officers were attempting to arrest Ramirez, he became physically resistant, requiring the officers to use physical force to control him, according to police.

Police said no weapons were used by the officers.

Ramirez was then taking to Moses Cone Hospital after EMS determined he had “dangerously low blood pressure” while treating him for an abrasion to the face, police said.

Doctors performing surgery on Ramirez then discovered he was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition that may have been aggravated by the incident, according to a police press release.

Ramirez was pronounced dead at 3:35 a.m. Monday after he was unable to recover from surgery.

The cause of death is currently undetermined and pending the results of an autopsy conducted by the Medical Examiner.

The SBI is now investigating the incident. Agents will determine if use of force by all involved was in accordance with state law. Their findings will be presented to the District Attorney, who makes the final determination of compliance with law, according to police.

“The Greensboro Police Department’s Professional Standards Division will investigate to determine if departmental policies were followed during the incident. Per department protocol, Officer JL Beavers and Officer TB Caldwell remain on administrative duties until the SBI’s investigation is complete,” police said in a news release.

Police said Beavers is a four-year veteran of the Greensboro Police Department. Caldwell joined the agency in 2009.