The December fatal shooting by police of a Chesterfield County man who pointed a handgun at county officers trying to serve him with felony arrest warrants was justified, a Richmond multijurisdictional grand jury has ruled.

After hearing evidence in the case, the grand jury determined that a Chesterfield police officer “was in reasonable fear of (his/her) life and the lives of others” when the officer shot and killed Brian T. McDaniel, 39, inside his home on Dec. 10, according to a redacted copy of the grand jury’s ruling provided by Chesterfield police.

Chesterfield would not identify the officer and officials purged the officer’s name and gender from the grand jury’s written ruling. They also declined to provide a summary of facts, but Chesterfield police Capt. Chris Hensley said the details are essentially the same as authorities related them to news outlets the week of the shooting.

Although the grand jury ruled on the case nearly two months ago, the department didn’t release the panel’s findings until receiving a recent inquiry from the Richmond Times-Dispatch. Hensley said the department was waiting until it finished an internal investigation of the shooting — which recently ended — that was separate from the criminal investigation.

Hensley said only one officer fired a gun at McDaniel, who had earlier discharged his weapon multiple times inside his house in the 7700 block of Millcreek Drive.

According to the department’s initial account of the shooting, officers arrived between 4:30 p.m. and 5 p.m. to serve McDaniel with two felony assault warrants related to two earlier domestic disputes with relatives. Three officers were let inside and they attempted to make contact with him.

A brief standoff began after McDaniel, who was in a back room, indicated he was armed. Officers communicated with McDaniel in an attempt to have him surrender peacefully, but they heard gunfire as the negotiations continued. Hensley said it was later determined that McDaniel had fired.

McDaniel then soon emerged with a gun and was shot by police when he pointed it at officers. He died at the scene.

Before his shooting death, McDaniel had been charged nearly a dozen times in the past 17 years with assaulting or stalking various family members, court records show. He also was convicted in 2005 of assaulting three Chesterfield police officers and sentenced to 15 years in prison with all but 18 months suspended.

A second fatal police shooting case from January is still pending.

Hensley said he expects the case involving Frankie Pitt, 45, who was fatally shot during a roadside confrontation, will be soon presented to a multijurisdictional grand jury.

Pitt was shot and killed during a struggle with a Chesterfield police officer about 3 a.m. Jan. 13 along the on-ramp to southbound Chippenham Parkway from Hull Street Road. Police said the officer stopped to help Pitt, whom the officer initially believed to be a disabled motorist.

But upon approaching the vehicle, the officer found Pitt with a cash drawer that had been stolen from a Hull Street Road convenience store about 10 minutes earlier, police said. When the officer tried to arrest Pitt, he resisted, and a struggle ensued over the officer’s gun.

(804) 649-6450