Advocates for the homeless on Sunday called for an independent investigation into the shooting death of a homeless man by a Chicago police officer three days earlier near the elevated train stop on Addison Street.

Arthur Hutchinson, 40, who had served time in prison for separate theft and robbery convictions, was shot once in the chest after allegedly lunging at the officer with a shiny silver object that turned out to be a fork.

Advertisement

The officer had been called to remove Hutchinson from the Red Line station on the 3600 block of North Sheffield Avenue after Chicago Transit Authority security twice asked him to leave for panhandling and being disruptive, authorities said.

A preliminary investigation has determined the veteran officer acted appropriately, said police spokeswoman Lauri Sanders. The Office of Professional Standards is continuing to investigate the shooting.

Advertisement

The incident occurred about 5:05 p.m. Thursday. CTA security had twice asked Hutchinson to leave the station for panhandling. A few minutes later, an officer arrived and encountered Hutchinson in the alley beneath the "L" tracks, where he allegedly became belligerent, confrontational and displayed a shiny silver object, police said. The officer reportedly ordered Hutchinson to drop the object. Instead, Hutchinson allegedly lunged at the officer, who fired a shot.

Hutchinson was released from prison last March after serving 2 years for theft. In 1992, he was paroled after serving 4 years for robbery, according to police sources.

But friends said Hutchinson was mild-mannered and not prone to violence.

At the Addison station Sunday, a crowd of about 40, including several homeless people, gathered to hear homeless advocates criticize police for using deadly force against a man armed with what turned out to be a fork.

"This is wrong. This is not right. He was a black man. He was a homeless man. He had a fork," said Kathleen Ahler, executive director of Residents For Effective Shelter, or REST, a homeless shelter. "That is no reason to be killed in this city."

Ahler suggested the independent investigation could be conducted by the Cook County Commission on Human Relations.

Sanders said Chicago Police Department policy gives officers the right to use deadly force if they fear for their life.

John Donahue, executive director for the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, called for the CTA to suspend what his group says is a policy to remove homeless people from public transportation.

Advertisement

"We're not for making public transportation shelters, of course," Donahue said. "But it might be the last place a person has to go before dying on the street."

CTA spokeswoman Noelle Gaffney said security did not know Hutchinson was homeless at the time of the incident. She also said his being homeless was irrelevant to him being asked to leave.

"We didn't ask him where he lived. We just asked him to stop panhandling and to leave," she said. "Our customers have rights. . . . (T)hey shouldn't have to be hit up for money or bothered by people."

The new CTA policy is not aimed at removing homeless people, she said. Instead, she said, police and social workers will offer assistance to homeless people at the Howard station, which might include finding a drug-treatment program or shelter.