

Georgians are outraged after a Macon, Georgia police officer, who managed to rack up 26 complains in 6 years for "allegations of harassment, theft, excessive force, reckless driving, and animal abuse," killed an unarmed man in a Kroger parking lot.



Via News Centralga:

A large group of people rallied Friday, calling for the immediate firing and punishment of a Macon police officer, who shot and killed a man in the parking lot of a Kroger grocery store a week ago.



Police originally said Officer Clayton Sutton was serving a warrant on Sammie "Junebug" Davis Jr., when a struggle ensued and multiple shots were fired. Davis' died shortly after the incident and his death has been ruled a homicide.



It was later discovered there was no warrant for Sammie Davis Jr., and police then released a statement saying Sutton was responding to a call for service. An incident report says officers failed to find a weapon on Davis, but Sutton's neck was bleeding after the incident.

The cop allegedly has an extensive criminal past, for which he faced little to no punishment.

A copy of Officer Sutton's disciplinary record shows the six and a half year veteran has compiled a list of 26 complaints against him.



The complaints include allegations of harassment, theft, excessive force, reckless driving, and animal abuse.



In 2010 Sutton was accused of shooting a Pit Bulldog that tried to attack him. The owner of the dog says it was tied up on the porch. Under his discipline "No Further Action" is listed.



Also in 2010 Sutton was accused of using excessive force and pulling a woman from a vehicle and throwing her on the ground to arrest her. Sutton was given a written reprimand.



In 2010 Sutton was accused of wrongfully pointing his duty weapon in a man's face during a traffic stop, and searching the man's vehicle without his consent. "No Further Action" was his discipline.



In 2011 Sutton was accused of harassing a woman at her home about an alleged bad check. Sutton is accused of trying to intimidate the woman and coercing her into paying cash immediately to avoid going to jail. The woman told him to go ahead and take her to jail. Sutton was suspended for one day.



In May Sutton was accused of removing $200 from a woman's purse during a traffic stop. "No Further Action" was his discipline.



Not in Sutton's disciplinary file was an incident reported by WGXA several months ago. A Macon woman accused Sutton of hitting her and her granddaughter with his police cruiser. People in the area say at the time, Sutton was terrorizing the neighborhood. Everyone of those actions are criminal offenses the cop should not only have been fired for, but prosecuted for to the full extent of the law, just as any "commoner" would have been. Instead, he got a few slaps on the wrist and now he's allegedly committed a homicide. Great job "protecting and serving."

_

Chris runs the website InformationLiberation.com, you can read more of his writings here. Follow infolib on twitter here.







