Nine-year-old Rebecca Aramburo, who was allegedly kidnapped by her mother last month, was found dead yesterday in a Lake Tahoe campground after a standoff between her abductors and police.

Rebecca lived in Lakewood, Pierce County, with her father and stepmother.

The standoff with the girl's mother, Lisa Ann Platz, 31, and Ames Csucsai, 35, ended around noon yesterday when the two were taken into custody and hospitalized for what appeared to be self-inflicted knife wounds, authorities said.

But Rebecca was already dead by the time police ripped open the tent where the three were staying, said South Lake Tahoe police Officer Chuck Owens. Police said Rebecca's throat was cut. An autopsy on Tuesday will determine whether she died before or after police arrived.

Murder and kidnapping charges were filed against Platz yesterday after she was released from the hospital into police custody, Owens said.

Platz's wrists had been slashed, police said.

Csucsai, identified as Platz's boyfriend, also had slashed wrists and a slashed throat. He underwent surgery last night and was later released into police custody.

"He was the one doing all the talking, saying they wouldn't be taken out alive," Owens said of Csucsai.

The events began to unfold at around 1 a.m. at the El Dorado County campground near the shores of the scenic mountain lake on the Nevada-California border.

Platz and Csucsai are wanted in Pierce County in connection with Rebecca's kidnapping last month.

Rebecca's stepmother told authorities in Washington that she was dropping the girl off at her parents' Lakewood home Aug. 13 when Platz jumped out of a truck and snatched the girl away at gunpoint.

Pierce County Detective Ed Troyer said Platz, who was out on $45,000 bail, was to appear in court that week to face earlier charges of custodial interference.

Those charges were filed in April after Platz "took her daughter on spring break and never brought her back," Troyer said. Mother and daughter were found in San Diego and brought back to Washington, he said.

Rebecca's father, Jose Aramburo, said he had full legal custody of her.

"They were control freaks and I guess they figured if they aren't getting her, we're not getting her either," said a distraught Aramburo.

He described Rebecca as "a very bright girl" who was accepted into the highly gifted program at Lake City Elementary School where she was supposed to start fourth grade.

"It's very, very shocking. We loved Rebecca and they couldn't accept that," Aramburo said.

"She was very happy here, very happy in school."

Aramburo said after the couple broke up, Platz returned to her parents' home in Alaska with Rebecca, who was 2 at the time.

Investigators in Washington said Platz took off with their daughter and disappeared for four years. Aramburo didn't see his daughter during that time; every Christmas and birthday present he sent to Rebecca was returned to him by her mother, he said.

After the alleged kidnapping this August, the FBI distributed fliers about Platz and Csucsai.

A police officer spotted the couple's vehicle in the campground parking lot early yesterday.

Officers found two handguns and a rifle in the car, and a SWAT team and negotiators were called in.

Two knives were found inside the tent after the couple were taken into custody.

During the standoff, they claimed to have had another weapon and a large amount of ammunition in the tent with them, police said.

Sarah Jean Green can be reached at 206-515-5654 or sgreen@seattletimes.com.

Material from The Associated Press was used in this report.