Candles burned and flowers filled the area Wednesday night near where two people, including a child, were killed in a Christmas night traffic collision that injured three others.

Glendale resident Tracey Ong Tan, 26, and her 11-year-old cousin Isaiah were killed in the crash.

"It doesn't matter what time of year, but this time of year, you know, Christmas will never be the same," the boy's uncle and godfather told NBC4 Wednesday night.

Irene Ng, 52; her husband, 49-year-old Kenric Ng; and their 16-year-old daughter -- all residents of Daly City, Calif. -- were hospitalized.

Kenric Ng has since been treated and released. His wife and daughter remain hospitalized.

The five victims -- all related to each other, according to police -- were traveling in a minivan that was struck by a sport utility vehicle being pursued by police on Christmas night.

Police attempted to stop the SUV for failing to stop at a stop sign near the 1900 block of Newport Avenue in Pasadena around 8 p.m. The location had been cordoned off by police for investigation of a shooting that occurred around 11 a.m. Tuesday.

After a short pursuit, the SUV crashed into the minivan near the intersection of Marengo Avenue and Maple Street. Two of the minivan's passengers died at the scene and three were hospitalized. Initial reports had four people in the minivan. Authorities later clarified that the vehicle was carrying five people.

All four people in the SUV were taken into police custody on suspicion of murder.

The SUV occupants -- described as known gang members by Pasadena police -- were identified as Demarius Hanna, 22; Brittany Washington, 21; Jada Mays, 18; and Darryl Williams, 22. Police told NBC4 the suspects have not been cooperative with the investigation.

During the short pursuit, the suspects discarded a loaded handgun, police said. Investigators have retrieved the firearm and are working to determine if it was used in the fatal shooting earlier in the day, which killed 49-year-old Victor McClinton, a Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department employee and youth sports coach.

Correction: The shooting happened around 11 a.m. Tuesday, not Thursday. The story has been updated to reflect the correct day. Also, Marengo was misspelled in a previous version. That has also been corrected.