Police said Tyree Bell, 31, used his son as a human shield as he held police at bay with a shotgun that was later found to be unloaded.

Advertisement Police chief details officer-involved shooting Share Copy Link Copy

Omaha's police chief describes video evidence of an officer-involved shooting as emotional and graphic.At a news conference Wednesday, Todd Schmaderer detailed a timeline of events leading up to the point where multiple officers shot at Tyree Bell, 31, in the early-morning hours on New Year's Day.Schmaderer said the initial 911 call came in as a domestic disturbance around 4 a.m. Tuesday. The caller expressed urgency, indicating that Bell had a shotgun.Responding officers reported that Bell's girlfriend ran out of the house upon their arrival. The couple's 3-year-old twins remained inside with Bell.Bell verbally threatened officers and was making suicidal statements, Schmaderer said. A team of negotiators was able to convince Bell to release one of the twins -- his daughter. Schmaderer said Bell did not release his son, however.At some point during the situation, an officer pointed his cruiser camera toward the house to record the incident in what Schmaderer referred to as "laser sharp video." Late Wednesday, Omaha police released two images from the video to the media.Schmaderer said that Bell came out onto the porch of the house multiple times during the ordeal, holding his son up as a human shield, pointing a shotgun toward officers."Responding officers showed considerable restraint, and they were in peril as they could take no actions for fear of harming the 3-year-old," Schmaderer said.At 6:20 a.m., Schmaderer said, Bell put his son back inside the house and came out onto the porch with a shotgun and a rifle. That's when Schmaderer said four officers shot at Bell, striking him several times.Schmaderer said Bell fell back into the doorway of the house, and as officers approached the porch, the 3-year-old boy ran out of the house and was rushed away.Bell was taken to Alegent Creighton Health Creighton University Medical Center, where he died from his injuries.Schmaderer identified the officers who discharged their weapons, effectively ending the incident Tuesday, as Douglas Arrick, Carl Hanson, Chithauta Hester and Alan Peatrowsky.Further investigation revealed that the shotgun Bell was holding was not loaded and the rifle was determined to be a pellet gun."We still have to treat that weapon as being loaded," Schmaderer said. "By watching that video and seeing that situation, there'd be no one around that could assume that gun was not loaded."As per Omaha Police Department policy, the officers have been placed on paid administrative leave during the investigation.Schmaderer expressed his condolences to Bell's family, and he credited the professional response of the officers."This could have been a lot worse, and we're fortunate no one else was injured," he said.Schmaderer said the investigation into the incident is ongoing, but indicated of the "likelihood that alcohol and some other form of narcotic played a role in Bell's behavior."Bell had a lengthy criminal history, including felony gun possession and domestic violence. He recently served one year for illegally carrying a weapon as a felony. The police chief also indicated that Bell had mental health issues.Sgt. John Wells, president of Omaha's Police Officers Association, said he is thrilled the legislature increased the minimum prison sentence for felons in possession of firearms to three years."Especially somebody with a long record and a history of violence on their record, and they're given a slap on the wrist that just compounds the problem," Wells said.Schmaderer said criminals used guns to commit 75 percent of all felonious assaults in Omaha last year."Just given the totality and the macro numbers that I just said, for the community of Omaha, I would like to see more than the minimum sentence given," Schmaderer said.