Dick Trust

The first time Sam Malone walked into fabled Rupp Arena as a member of the University of Kentucky varsity basketball team, it took his breath away.

It was Midnight Madness, or Big Blue Madness as they call it in Lexington, Ky., and Malone was a wide-eyed freshman in his blue-and-white warm-up suit.

All of the players on that 2011-12 Kentucky roster were introduced to a pulsating throng of fans amid blaring spotlights in a choreographed show best described as nothing less than an extravaganza, rhapsody in blue.

“The feeling was just a rush through your whole body,” said the 5-foot-11 guard from Scituate. “It just makes you want to work as hard as possible. It’s cool to see all those other schools, but Kentucky is a unique place. There are 23,000 people there every game. They are really passionate. It’s pretty much unmatched.”

Unmatched, too, is the joy this scrappy sophomore from the South Shore of Massachusetts experiences as part of the nation’s winningest Division 1 men’s college basketball program (2,098 victories all time). Kentucky last season won its eighth NCAA championship (second only to UCLA’s 11), the team gets lots of national television exposure, and the coach is high-profile John Calipari.

None of that is lost on Malone.

“It’s a great feeling and we’ve got a lot of great guys here,” he said. “It’s just unbelievable. I feel very grateful for the opportunity and I try to make the best of it every day. I earned a scholarship this year, so that means a lot to me.”

It means so much that Malone pushes himself in the classroom, becoming an ‘A’ student with a perfect 4.0 grade point average. That’ll go a long way toward helping the business major retain his full scholarship, awarded annually based on his academics and his hoop proficiency.

“I was never a great student before I came here,” said Malone, a 2011 graduate of Scituate High School. “Part of it is the motivation to get a scholarship and that made me work hard to get a 4.0. I figured if I had a chance to work toward something, to earn something, I might as well put all my work into it.”

Among the lessons Kentucky fans have learned is that it’s not always how many points you score or how many minutes you play that measure your value to a basketball team.

Still feeling the effects of knee surgery performed just about a year ago – it was his fourth such procedure – Malone is not only a member of the Wildcats’ varsity, he’s an inspiration to his teammates, coaches and fans alike.

“Sam is as tough as they come,” Calipari is quoted as saying on the team’s Web site. “After suffering three knee injuries, he worked his way back and earned a spot on our team last year. I’m happy to see he’s worked his way back from a fourth knee surgery and (is) a part of our team this year as a scholarship player.”

Heading into the Jan. 2 Eastern Michigan game at Kentucky, the Wildcats had an 8-4 record this season, during which Malone had played only one minute in one game - Dec. 8, in a 74-46 victory over Portland.

But he’s still very much in tune with the program. He’s in the timeout huddles, cheers enthusiastically from the bench, and awaits his next opportunity to get more minutes. He participates in every practice, although sometimes caution rules the day.

“I’m comfortable here, but I’m still in a lot of pain after my fourth knee surgery,” Malone said. “I don’t do every drill in practice. That’s part of my knee situation. But it’s getting better every day. It’s getting healthier.

“There’s nothing wrong with the structure of my knee. It’s tendinitis. I just play through it. It doesn’t slow me down at all. For the most part I’m going full tilt. I’m happy with the part I’m playing.”

Malone played in six games for Kentucky as a freshman in 2011-12 before sustaining a torn ACL in the Chattanooga game and missing the rest of the campaign. Among his pre-injury action was a career-high four minutes in a victory over Penn State and a career-best four points in the season-opening win over Marist.

It’s not unusual to see Malone limping following a particularly demanding workout.

“After a two-hour practice, I’ll limp most of the time because it’s sore,” he said. “I throw ice on it every day and just move on to the next day.”

Despite his limited playing time, Malone is a crowd favorite.

“I’ve gotten the reputation of being very aggressive when I get into a game and I carried it on to this year, too,” he said. “I guess the fans like that. I think a lot of people appreciate that I’m still playing at a high level even though I’ve had four surgeries (two on each knee).”

Malone originally was a walk-on before his freshman season, but, he said, he wasn’t as much of a long shot as that suggests. Every year from age 10 or 11 to 15 or 16, Sam attended Calipari’s camps and made a big impression. The two stayed in touch.

“I think what helped the most was Cal getting to know Sam through the camps and seeing, A, that he could play, and, B, that he had a passion for the sport,” said Malone’s father, Joe, a businessman and former Mass. State Treasurer (1991-99).

“When you get to that player who is maybe the 10th, 11th, 12th kid on the team, you’re not necessarily looking for the best kid you could find in the country to fill that role. You’re looking for someone who’s going to be a good kid on and off the court, will work hard in the classroom and set a good example. So, I think in Sam he saw a lot of those attributes.”

Malone averaged 14.0 points, 9 assists and 4 steals as a senior at Scituate High, where he was a 2010-11 league All-Star.

Two of Sam’s siblings are now at Scituate. Charlie is a freshman basketball guard, while Carolyn is a senior at the high school. Older brother Joe Jr. is a senior at UKentucky and most likely Sam’s biggest on-campus fan. His parents, Joe and Linda, are right up there on the rooting scale, too.

Malone sees himself playing through his junior and senior seasons, then planning for his future.

“I’m only trying to squeeze two more years of basketball out of my body. That’s what I’ve got left in me,” he said. “After that, I want to work in some aspect of the sport, maybe coaching. And where I am is a great place to learn.

“All I’m thinking about is working as hard as I can and keeping my body healthy for two more years. If I walk with a limp for the rest of my life, so be it.”

What drives Sam Malone? What accounts for his tenacity?

“A lot of people don’t have the opportunity I have, being at Kentucky, and I just want to make the most of it,” he said. “Coach knows how much I love the game, and one reason I love basketball so much is just watching him, watching how hard his teams play.

“I’ve gone through four knee surgeries and there’s no reason to quit now.”