This still frame from a video released by the Michigan State Police shows Bernard Rowley shooting at state trooper Roger Hunt's patrol car.

BELDING, MI — Belding police Officer Jason Cooper shot and killed Bernard Rowley moments after the Sidney man fired a shotgun blast at a state police trooper last month, a recording from a dash cam video shows.

Cooper acted a split-second after Rowley, who was pursued by police after he shot out a window in Cooper's parked patrol car, sent a single shot in the direction of Trooper Roger Hunt.

Rowley's shot smashed the "STOP" placard on the hood of Hunt's vehicle and Ionia County Prosecutor Ron Schafer said the trooper could have been killed while

.

The dash cam video, obtained by Mlive.com and The Grand Rapids Press under the Freedom of Information Act, offers a glimpse into the last minutes of Rowley's life and the threat he posed to law enforcement on the morning of Jan. 5. The recording has been edited by Mlive.com and The Press to not show Rowley's death.

The video released by the state police on Friday, Feb. 15, starts when trooper Hunt joins Cooper in a chase of Rowley's van. Before Hunt appeared — called in as backup to assist Cooper — the Belding officer had already followed Rowley through town. At about 5:12 a.m. that morning, Rowley shot out the window of Cooper's patrol car while it was parked at the city police station. Cooper was inside headquarters at the time.

Related:

Once Hunt joined the chase, he followed Rowley east on M-44 for about 9 minutes and 20 seconds. Speeds during the straight-line chase never exceed 40 mph, according to a report released by Schafer. At Hawley Highway, Rowley pulled off M-44 and stopped. Hunt pulled his cruiser close behind Rowley's van.

Cooper, who is not shown in the video, parked his patrol car further east on M-44. There are no recordings from Cooper's vehicle, authorities said.



Related:

About 10 seconds elapsed before Rowley exited his van. Hunt put his patrol car in reverse as Rowley staggered toward him. At one point, Rowley put both arms in the air. One hand grasped a shotgun.

Rowley then lowered his arms and continued walking toward Hunt, who was still inside his patrol car. Hunt reversed further and ordered Rowley to stop, drop the weapon and put his arms in the air.

Rowley ignored Hunt's commands and continued walking. He then stopped, shouldered the shotgun and fired one shot at Hunt's patrol car. The shot hit the "STOP" placard on Hunt's hood, sending up a cloud of debris.

Within a second of Rowley's shot, a blast from Cooper's shotgun hit Rowley and knocked him to the ground.

Related:

Seconds later, Hunt left his patrol car with his gun drawn and walked toward Rowley. The video showed that Cooper, who had sought cover and fired the shot from behind his patrol car, walking toward Rowley with his shotgun still shouldered.

Additional officers and emergency medical personnel arrived at the scene about 2 minutes and 30 seconds after the first shot.

In his report, Schafer wrote that after firing his shot, Cooper walked to the fallen Rowley. He kicked Rowley's shotgun away from him. Hunt checked Rowley for vital signs. At first he detected a faint pulse, but after immediately checking again, he found no pulse.

Rowley was pronounced dead at 5:37 a.m.

Schafer said the police video corroborated the accounts of the incident given by Cooper and Hunt and the findings of the state police investigation. He consulted the video when making his decision in the case.

— Contact Aaron Aupperlee at aaupperl@mlive.com or (616) 430-4820. Follow him on Twitter at @tinynotebook.