An appellate court panel has upheld the conviction of a cop serving time for shooting his friend to death in 2013, but has ordered that he be re-sentenced because of an error in his original sentencing.

The court also ordered a review of whether he is barred from future public employment.

Former Deptford Township police officer James A. Stuart was off-duty and drunk when he shot David Compton. Stuart had been out drinking with friends and returned to his house with Compton, where they continued drinking while watching a movie.

Stuart, 36, testified that Compton asked to see the Glock 27 handgun he carried in an ankle holster while off-duty. He claimed he removed the magazine and ensured the weapon was safe before allowing Compton to handle it.

Stuart claimed he fell asleep on the couch, but when a loud sound from the movie woke him, he grabbed the gun and fired it at the TV, assuming the weapon wasn’t loaded. A round struck Compton, 27, in the cheek, fractured his first cervical vertebra and damaged an artery that provides blood to his brain.

David Compton, 27, died in a 2013 shooting.

The defendant described the shooting as an accident, while prosecutors accused him of reckless indifference.

In his first trial, Stuart was convicted of murder and aggravated manslaughter, but that conviction was reversed over errors in jury instructions. He was convicted of second-degree reckless manslaughter at his second trial in 2018 and sentenced to seven years in prison.

In his appeal, Stuart argued that the sentence was excessive, and while the appellate court disagreed on that point, the judges found in error with one of the aggravating factors cited in calculating his sentence.

In finding that Stuart’s actions were committed in an especially heinous, cruel or depraved manner, Superior Court Judge M. Christine Allen-Jackson focussed on his actions after the shooting, including not attending to Compton’s injuries and contacting police dispatch via a non-public phone line rather than calling 911.

The charge of reckless manslaughter deals with the act that caused a death, not a defendant’s conduct after a crime, the appeals court stated, meaning that factor should not have been applied in Stuart’s sentencing.

The trial court will need to “rebalance the remaining aggravating factors against the mitigating factors it found and determine whether it will impose the same or a different sentence,” the appellate panel wrote.

Stuart also argued in his appeal that the conviction didn’t involve his employment, so he should not have been barred from public employment. The appeals court disagreed, noting that his second-degree conviction meant he had to forfeit his job as a Deptford police officer.

The court sent the issue back to the trial court, however, to clarify if the order covered future jobs in the public sector.

"The order entered, which is part of the judgment of conviction, is not clear on whether defendant is disqualified from future public employment within this state,” the appellate judges wrote.

Stuart is currently serving his time in Bayside State Prison and his current parole eligibility date is Sept. 21, 2022.

James A. Stuart is shown in court during a 2017 appearance.

Matt Gray may be reached at mgray@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattGraySJT. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us: nj.com/tips. Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.