A 38-year-old Independence Township man was shot to death by an Oakland County Sheriff’s deputy after officials said he moved toward first responders while threatening them and holding a knife.

Jeremy Rucinski was shot once in the chest shortly before 3 p.m. Sunday in the 6900 block of Rattalee Lake Road. Deputies responded to the home when Rucinski’s girlfriend reported that Rucinski, who she lived with, pulled a switchblade knife on her.

“It’s a very sad situation,” Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said Monday.

“It didn’t appear as though there were a lot of choices. When you come directly at an officer with a knife, there’s not a lot of good outcomes.”

The conflict between Rucinski and his girlfriend arose when Rucinski learned that she hid cigarettes from him, according to the Sheriff’s Office. He became agitated and demanded the cigarettes before pulling a switchblade knife on her.

After barricading herself in the bathroom, the woman called 911. When deputies arrived, they found the woman in the house and were told that Rucinski had gone into the attached garage.

The woman told deputies that Rucinski had been very agitated in recent days and was on medication.

Two deputies remained with the woman and two others were just outside the garage when Rucinski opened the garage door, pulled the switchblade knife and “verbally challenged the deputies,” according to a release from the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office,

Knife in hand, Rucinski began to approach deputies, who repeatedly ordered him to drop the knife.

“He refused to do so and continued to move at the deputies,” the release states.

“Fearing for her own safety and her partner’s safety a single shot was fired by one of the deputies from her service weapon that struck the subject.”

Rucinski was treated at the scene and transported to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Bouchard said there are misconceptions about the use of a firearm in this incident.

“A knife is lethal force,” he said.

“A Taser is less than lethal force, so typically you don’t use a device that is less powerful or less able to overcome the resistance you’re seeking to stop. Having said that, we still try to do that as often as we can.”

Bouchard said the other deputy who was outside did fire a Taser at Rucinski, but it was not effective.

“(Rucinski) went directly at the officer with the firearm and was within 6 to 10 feet (of her) when she had no choice,” he said.

Bouchard mentioned a police training method called the “21 foot rule,” which states that it takes a distance of about 21 feet for an officer to be able to react to an edged weapon threat, draw a weapon and fire two rounds at the suspect.

“If someone gets within 21 feet coming at you with a weapon, your life is in immediate danger,” Bouchard said.

“(Rucinski) had previously been talking about weapons to (his girlfriend). When that garage door opened, (deputies) had no idea what he was going to be coming out with.”

When asked whether Rucinski may have been attempting to make police kill him, Bouchard said he was not sure.

“I can’t speculate to what his thought process was, but when you’re facing a deputy with a firearm … that’s not a way to end things peacefully.”

Rucinski “had been hospitalized for similar behavior in the past,” Bouchard said.

An investigation into the shooting has been launched and will be handled by the Sheriff’s Office’s Special Investigations Unit.

The deputy who fired the shot has been a member of the Sheriff’s Office for more than eight years. She is on paid leave.

“It’s a tough thing on anyone, even when they’re not left a choice, to reconcile using lethal force,” Bouchard said.

“We want to make sure she has the time and the support she needs. This is all very preliminary. We have to do a full and complete investigation, obviously.”

Contact staff writer Dave Phillips at 248-745-4631 or dave.phillips@oakpress.com. Follow him on Twitter @dave_phillips1.