MOBILE, Alabama -- The passenger injured while he and another man were trying to flee from police after a carjacking and theft on Tuesday has been arrested.

Patrick Lorenzo Smith, 17, was arrested and charged with two counts of first-degree robbery, two counts of theft and one of second-degree assault.

The charges stem from both the incident Tuesday and a shooting and robbery on Dec. 20, 2012, according to Cpl. Christopher Levy, public information officer for the Mobile Police Department.

Mobile police officers stand near the site of a car crash at the Gas-N-Go at 521 U.S. Highway 43 in Saraland, Ala., on Tuesday, Jan. 8, 2013. Police say the crash was the end of a high-speed chase between police and suspected robbers. (Theresa Seiger/tseiger@al.com)

Smith is accused of taking part in a robbery that left one man with non-life-threatening injuries. The man was shot in the stomach before Smith and two accomplices got away with his car, police said.

On Tuesday, U.S. Highway 43 was partially blocked for hours after a car driven by Leroy McCaskill Junior Anderson, 25, crashed into a gas station while he was trying to escape from police. Anderson died a short time later, according to Levy.

The chase started on Telegraph Road in Prichard, when a police officer recognized the car driven by Anderson as one reported stolen at gunpoint earlier that day.

According to Levy, the car was taken in a carjacking from a home on the 300 block of Laurel Drive. A second car was stolen while people worked inside the house.

The second car has not been recovered.

Police are still searching for a third suspect in the crimes who is believed to have gotten away with the second truck. A description of the suspect has not been released, although Levy said police are working on several leads.

Authorities have not linked the crime with a similar carjacking at Catholic Cemetery on Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue. However, Levy said police were still looking into the possible connection.

Anyone with information on the robberies or the third suspect can call MPD at 251-208-7211.

Theresa Seiger is on Facebook and Twitter.