



Two Girard men died when they crashed into a tree during a high speed police chase.

Antonio Dontie Brigham, 36, and Harold Edward Hilton, 66, wrecked around 2:30 a.m. Saturday, just minutes after Sardis police officer Mark Gatlin tried to pull Hilton over for weaving across Highway 23.

Instead of stopping, Brigham accelerated to more than 100 mph and prompted a four-mile chase toward Girard.

“The officer never got within fifty feet of the vehicle,” Sardis Police Chief Gary Jones said, noting Gatlin only managed to call in the first two letters of the license plate. “He was not gaining on them … he was just maintaining visibility.”

The chase ended when Brigham turned onto a dirt road and lost control of his Pontiac Bonneville. Georgia State Patrol troopers said the car “went sideways” and crashed into a large tree.

Although it took EMTs nearly two hours to free the men from the wreckage with the Jaws of Life, Burke County Coroner Susan Salemi said both were already deceased.

They died on impact from blunt force trauma to the head and chest, she reported.

Georgia State Patrol trooper Chris Calhoun said neither man was wearing a seatbelt. Brigham was also unlicensed and driving an uninsured car.

“We believe alcohol was involved,” Trooper Calhoun added.

Although no open containers were found in the Bonneville, the trooper, police chief and coroner all described an overwhelming odor of alcohol in the vehicle.

Since Saturday’s fatalities, The True Citizen has received a number of anonymous emails and calls essentially accusing Officer Gatlin of violating policy and causing the wreck.

Chief Jones doesn’t agree.

He said that while he is deeply sorry about the deaths, he believes the blame has been misplaced.

After reviewing footage from the patrol car’s dash cam, Chief Jones confirmed Officer Gatlin “acted properly” and followed the departmental policy.

That policy, which was implemented with the chief’s appointment in 2011, allows an officer to pursue any vehicle up to five miles outside the city limits – and further if the officer believes a forcible felony has been committed.

He said Officer Gatlin was forced to make a split-second decision when a driver he believed was highly intoxicated decided to flee – and is, consequentially, left to deal with the undeserved aftereffects.

“The families are grieving over their losses … and the officer involved has also been grieving,” Chief Jones said. “Not for the actions that he was obligated to take … but the fact that two people were killed as a result.”

The real tragedy, he said, is that the accident could have been avoided.

“Although we may never know the reason that Mr. Brigham failed to stop for a police vehicle one thing is factual,” the chief said. “If (he) would have simply pulled over rather than fleeing from the police, these two men would still be here today.”



