ALISON SHEA

The sound of unspeakable grief filled a Willimantic church Sunday, a day before the one-month anniversary of the horrific shooting that left 20 first-graders and six of their teachers dead in Newtown.

A concert at St. Joseph Church in memory of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting victims brought together 250 musicians from more than a dozen Eastern Connecticut performance groups to perform Gabriel Fauré’s Requiem. A requiem is a special kind of religious music common to religious funerals, and Fauré’s, sung in seven sections and in Latin, asks angels to receive the dead into paradise, and “Rest eternal give them, Lord / let light always shine on them,” according to a translation provided at the church.

The sentiment was overwhelming for many of the musicians, who hugged each other at the end of the performance.

“It meant a lot to give something back to the families that lost children,” said Brennan Collins, of Wauregan, who graduated from Eastern Connecticut State University in December and performed with school music groups Sunday. “I have a lot of nieces and nephews, and I can’t imagine how I would feel if I lost any of them.”

The organizer and conductor of the performance, Eastern Connecticut State University music professor David Belles, told the crowd that, as soon as the shooting happened, he wanted to do something, and so did the members of many the groups performing Sunday. He hoped the music would comfort the families, he told the crowd. And, he told The Bulletin a few days before the concert, it could help the musicians cope as well.

“What we do as musicians is sometimes we turn to music as a gateway to deal with our own grief or to help others deal with theirs,” he said.

Audience members said it helped them, too.

“I think it was just marvelous to bring so many singers together for this,” said Jean Jakoboski, of North Windham. “Newtown is still on so many minds. I know it’s on my mind still.”

The concert also included the premiere of a special organ piece composed by Eastern Connecticut State University music professor Anthony Cornicello and performed by Michael McCarthy. The composition was dedicated to Victoria Soto, a first-grade teacher at Sandy Hook who was killed while trying to save her students during the attack. She was an Eastern Connecticut State University alumna, and some of the money raised Sunday will go to a scholarship in her name. The Sandy Hook School Support Fund, which will aid families of the victims, and Newtown’s Youth and Family Services department, will also receive shares of the donations. The donation total was not available Sunday night.