A federal appeals court said the wrongful death case against two Brevard County sheriff's deputies who shot and killed an Indialantic man after family members called for help, should go to trial.

The 16-page ruling was issued by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals last month in the case of a lawsuit centered around the Jan. 13, 2013 shooting death of 49-year-old Christopher Greer.

Greer, the brother of then-Indialantic Town Councilman Randy Geer, had been acting erratically at home when deputies responded, reports show.

The Brevard County Sheriff's Office at the time said Greer was armed with a knife and confronted the deputies before being shot to death.

The deputies said Christopher Greer was moving toward them and had a knife raised above his head before they fired 13 rounds at a door. An Indialantic police officer told state investigators he did not see a knife.

Forensic investigators found a large, bloodied knife in the folds of his coat near Greer's left leg. Greer was right-handed, the court noted.

More:Internal affairs: Brevard sheriff moves from FDLE investigation in deadly force cases

More:Prosecutors deem Cocoa officer-involved shooting justified

Randall Greer filed the suit in 2017, claiming excessive force and Fourth Amendment rights violations. He also raised questions of liability and whether it was reasonable for the two deputies, James Haman and Diomedis Canela, to fire on his brother.

The federal appellate court found the question of whether the deputies reasonably believed they were in danger should be addressed by a jury. The court, citing a previous case, cautioned in its writing that "the mere presence of a ... weapon is not enough to warrant the exercise of deadly force and shield an officer from suit."

The case, its conflicts over use of force, and the physical evidence, should be presented to a jury for a decision, the judges wrote.

"...It is not our place to resolve that dispute of fact; it is the jury's," they spelled out in the decision.

Citing the physical evidence and conflicting testimony from the Indialantic police officer, the court said, reversing a previous court decision. No trial date has been set.

Contact Gallop at 321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com and Twitter @JDGallop