The death of a man who was shot and killed by officers in the parking lot of the Law Enforcement Center was a suicide, according to the coroner's office.Greenville County Deputy Coroner Jeff Fowler said Wesley Kyle Swilling died as a result of a gunshot wound to his torso. He said Swilling had a total of seven gunshot wounds.Fowler said the manner of death is ruled suicide.Investigators said Swilling drove to the LEC and parked in a restricted parking lot on Jan. 14. He had a glue gun he had modified to make it look like a real weapon, and he threatened and continued to move toward a deputy and an officer who fired at him, according to investigators.Thirteenth Circuit Solicitor Walt Wilkins said, based upon a State Law Enforcement Division investigation, he found there is no evidence to support any criminal charges against the sheriff’s deputy or the Greenville officer who shot and killed Swilling.“I believe the evidence supports the fact that the officers acted properly and appropriately under the circumstances,” stated Wilkins.The attorneys of Swilling's family said they are still considering filing a lawsuit.

The death of a man who was shot and killed by officers in the parking lot of the Law Enforcement Center was a suicide, according to the coroner's office.

Greenville County Deputy Coroner Jeff Fowler said Wesley Kyle Swilling died as a result of a gunshot wound to his torso. He said Swilling had a total of seven gunshot wounds.

Fowler said the manner of death is ruled suicide.

Investigators said Swilling drove to the LEC and parked in a restricted parking lot on Jan. 14. He had a glue gun he had modified to make it look like a real weapon, and he threatened and continued to move toward a deputy and an officer who fired at him, according to investigators.

Thirteenth Circuit Solicitor Walt Wilkins said, based upon a State Law Enforcement Division investigation, he found there is no evidence to support any criminal charges against the sheriff’s deputy or the Greenville officer who shot and killed Swilling.

“I believe the evidence supports the fact that the officers acted properly and appropriately under the circumstances,” stated Wilkins.

The attorneys of Swilling's family said they are still considering filing a lawsuit.