Luis Hernandez

lfhernan@visaliatimesdelta.com

“There are too many officer involved shootings. All you need to do is check out the news. We need to bring more attention and save lives.”

“It was an overreaction.”

“It was forced upon two good officers, who had to react.”

Two Tulare police officers named in a civil suit filed in federal court stemming from the 2013 fatal shooting of Samuel Gonzales were cleared earlier this week.

Vince Medina and Ryan Richmond were accused of violating Gonzales’ civil rights. They, along with the city of Tulare, were named in the suit filed by Anita Doporto, Gonzales’ mother.

“We are very pleased,” said Bruce Praet, the Southern California-based attorney who represented the officers. “It’s tragic any time an officer is forced to take someone’s life.”

Tulare Police Chief Jerry Breckinridge said the jury’s decision backed the officers’ actions.

“It validates what the officers did to protect their lives and the lives of others,” he said. “It was forced upon two good officers, who had to react.”

Dale Galipo, who represented Doporto, said he was displeased with the jury’s decision.

“We are disappointed,” he said. “We knew it was a challenge. There was no settlement offered. There were no witnesses.”

The jury’s decision means Gonzales’ family receives no compensation. Galipo said he gave an undisclosed amount of money to Gonzales’ family. He said he did so in order to help the family not feel like it was a lose-lose situation.

The fatal officer-involved shooting occurred on Jan. 17, 2013 in the 200 block of South F Street. According to testimony heard in federal court, the officers were responding to reports of suspected gang members loitering near La Palma Bakery on West Inyo Avenue.

By the time the officers responded, they didn’t find anybody in the area. The officers then went to an abandoned house officers knew suspected gang members frequented.

When they announced their presence, the officers spotted Gonzales, who was running out of the home. The store’s owner said Gonzales didn’t resemble the men loitering at his store that night.

Praet said Gonzales was the only person to come out from the house. Galipo said Gonzales was living on the streets part-time, collecting cans as a way to support himself.

According to testimony, the officers used their flashlights to subdue Gonzales. Richmond continued fighting with Gonzales, who was shot by Medina.

Praet said the shooting was justified. Galipo said the shooting was excessive force.

“It was an overreaction,” Galipo said.

The jury sided with the officers.

Galipo said he respected the jury’s decision, but certain evidence hurt his case. The evidence allowed included Gonzales’ criminal history, the fact he had been incarcerated for a large part of his life, he had a parole hold and was under the influence of drugs at the time of the shooting.

Galipo said those are things the officers didn’t know at the time of the shooting. The attorney also said he doesn’t figure an appeal may come.

After the shooting, the officers were placed on administrative leave. Breckinridge said the officers are back on the job.

Medina, who was hired on Nov. 17, 2007, is assigned to the investigations division, while Richmond is on patrol. Richmond was hired on Nov. 10, 2008 as a police trainee and promoted to officer on Jan. 31, 2009.

“We determined they acted within police’s practice and the law,” Breckinridge said.

During the trial, members from the department’s command staff were in federal court, following the developments, Breckindridge said.

Praet, a former police officer who became an attorney, has been representing Tulare police for at least six years. The City of Tulare belongs to the Central San Joaquin Valley Risk Management Authority, which includes 54 cities in the area, including Exeter, Woodlake and Farmersville.

Galipo said he would like the officers to receive more training. He also said he would encourage plaintiffs to follow up on civil lawsuits involving officer-involved shootings.

“We need to bring this to the public’s awareness,” he said. “It’s a big issue. There are too many officer-involved shootings. All you need to do is check out the news. We need to bring more attention and save lives.”

Online

www.csjvrma.org.