© Twain Newhart

Gregory Gordon

Gregory Gordon

WAIKIKI (HawaiiNewsNow) - A man who was shot multiple times by police after he hit several police cars with a pick-up truck during a pursuit through Waikiki early Tuesday morning has been identified by sources as Gregory Gordon from Ashford, Alabama.

The 22-year-old was critically wounded in the gunfire and taken out of the truck on the passenger's side. He was then transported by ambulance to the Queen's Medical Center where he was pronounced dead, according to police.

From a Waikiki high-rise, resident Daylin Pelletier captured the dramatic moment as a swarm of Honolulu police cars surround the suspect's Ram pickup truck on Ala Wai Boulevard.

In his video, you can hear the suspect rev his engine over the sound of a dozen sirens - then he tries to escape by smashing into their cars. The suspect screeches his tires in reverse, slamming into a police car in a stream of tire smoke...then six shots ring out.

"They kept on telling him, Stop. Stop. But he kept on smashing," said Ala Wai resident Bill Coleman, who witnessed the shooting from his apartment window.

"I saw an officer get out of the car alone and with his guns drawn, yelling at the truck driver to stop. And then I heard shots and the truck did stop," said Chris Dickerson a visitor from California.

"I feared for the police officers lives," said Dickerson. "To be honest, both those in the car, because the truck continued to hit the police cars. And the gentleman who was outside the car, was vunerable, to being run over by this crazy truck."

However, this wasn't the first time cops tried to stop him. The pursuit for the suspect started on Kuhio Avenue around 4 this morning, just a few blocks away.

Police say the suspect drove the wrong way down Nahua Street, crossed Kuhio Avenue and drove up briefly onto the sidewalk near the Waikiki Town Center. He then reversed his truck into approaching officers who were already nearby and then tried to get away.

The suspect then turned onto Kuhio Avenue headed in the ewa bound direction, then "drove straight at a cop" said Honolulu Police Chief Louis Kealoha.

"The officer fired multiple shots at the truck as it drove towards him, narrowly missing him," said Chief Kealoha.

Two more officers tried to stop him on Lewers Street, where police said, he again jumped the curb.

According to witnesses, the suspect rounded Lewers onto the Ala Wai as five different police officers surrounded him. But witnesses said the suspect refused to give up and be boxed in, and immediately started ramming the police cars.

Coleman said, "When he going forward there was nothing but gunning it. There was nothing but smoke and banging and banging you know. He woke up the whole neighborhood."

HPD Major Richard Robinson said three HPD officers were treated and released from the hospital for injuries they received during the ramming.

All five police vehicles were damaged, one of them totaled, said Robinson. The suspect also hit pole and two civilian cars that were parked along the Ala Wai.

Andy Rogerson's green Ford Escape rental car was one of them. He and his wife had been using valet for the past few days, but saw an open space and took it. Rogerson said he told his wife it would be safe, but said that proved not to be the case.

"The whole side is caved in, said Rogerson who's on his honeymoon from England. "Of course, which is nothing in comparison to the rest of it. But a bit of a surprise to wake up to this morning."

When asked if the shooting worried or concerned him, he replied, "We'll just put it down to a slice of bad luck and pick up. And no, it's a beautiful place and the people are real good. But, you get idiots everywhere don't you? So, you can't legislate for people doing crazy things, even in paradise, I guess."

Rogerson and other witnesses applauded the police action and were glad the officers weren't seriously hurt.

"My first reaction is while I feel for the shooting victim, I'm so grateful for the police because literally, they put their bodies on the line, for a dangerous situation, both in their cars and even out of their cars, with an out of control driver, trying purposefully to hit them."

The military confirmed Tuesday afternoon that the suspect was a U.S. Army Soldier assigned to the 25th Infantry Division. His name is being withheld pending notification of next of kin.

"This is an incredibly tragic incident, and we offer our condolences to the Soldier's family and to the officers injured," said Lt. Col. Derrick Cheng, spokesman for the 25th Infantry Division. "We're working closely with the HPD as they lead the investigation, and they have our full support throughout this process."

Mobile users may find the pursuit video under the 'latest video' tab on your Hawaii News Now app.

Copyright 2013 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.