SAGINAW, MI — Vernon Washington goes to bed dreaming of knockouts, big purses and championship belts, at least until he wakes up in a sweat.

Watching people die will do that.

In a car chase involving police that lasted less than a block in 2001, Washington's potential as a boxer took a back seat when the pursuit caused the death of two men.

"I wish I could change what happened, but I can't," said Washington, now 31. "When I dream, I dream about it and wake up sweating. When I think about it, I end up crying. I wasn't driving, but I saw it all. I still see it. I'll probably always see it. The hardest part is knowing there's nothing I can do about it."

Related: Michigan high-speed chases increasingly deadly

Today, Washington spends his time boxing in the basement at Shiloh Boxing Club, the former Moose Lodge in Old Town Saginaw, 220 N. Hamilton.

There is little light in the basement and little sound, other than a periodic bell. Lounge chairs and an old bar surround the makeshift ring in the middle of a room that, in a previous life, saw parties, dancing and music.

Now it serves as a refuge for Washington as he seeks a way to put his broken dreams back together.

Quick decision, deadly consequences

Washington started boxing when he was a 12-year-old with quick hands and pro potential. But at age 18, he made a life-changing decision.

On Sept. 27, 2001, he stole a 1999 Ford Expedition from the economy lot at McDonald Pontiac-GMC, 5355 State in Saginaw Township. Fellow high-schooler Joe Staffney stole a 2000 Suburban.

Staffney wanted a car to drive to a party at the former Next Step club in downtown Saginaw. Then he planned to use it to run away from his foster family.

A day after taking the vehicles, Washington's stolen car was parked in a garage. Staffney, a sophomore, took his for a ride to the Saginaw High parking lot. Washington was riding as a passenger.

"He's doing doughnuts in the lot ... he hit a parked car," Washington recalled. "We shouldn't have done it."

Saginaw High administrators saw the two students in the parking lot and sent them home for the day.

Washington and Staffney had changed license plates to avoid detection, but the Suburban was equipped with OnStar, which gave police the location of the vehicle.

Several police officers saw the black Suburban traveling east on Webber near Sheridan. They activated their patrol cars' lights and sirens. The Suburban turned and went north on Hazelwood, then west on Troy at less than 15 mph.

As police slowed, expecting the vehicle to stop, the driver turned south onto Collingwood and accelerated, creating a gap of several vehicles between the car and the police.

The Suburban went through a stop sign at Collingwood and Webber, veering to avoid contact with a white Cavalier. Staffney lost control, and the sport utility vehicle jumped the curb, fatally striking two pedestrians before colliding with two houses on Collingwood, ramming a concrete porch and coming to a stop.

Mobile Medical Response paramedics, Saginaw Police and Saginaw firefighters tend to two victims, Friday, Sept. 28, 2001, after Joe Staffney lost control of the stolen SUV he was driving and crashed into two people, killing them, and then crashed into two houses on Collingwood south of Webber in Saginaw. City police were chasing the stolen SUV when it left the road. After being convicted of two counts of manslaughter with a motor vehicle and other felonies, Staffney was sentenced to 10 to 15 years in prison, time he is still serving as of Nov., 2014. David A. Sommers | Mlive.com file photo

The Suburban was equipped with a Sensing and Diagnostic Module (SDM), which recorded the speed of the wheels. Five seconds before impact, the Suburban's wheels were moving at 65 mph, increasing to 76 four seconds before impact. Between three and two seconds before impact, the brakes were activated, and the speed dropped to 41 mph. One second before impact, the wheels were moving at 29 mph.

The speed limit on Collingwood was 25 mph.

Johnnie Hickman, 56, was walking on the sidewalk with his friend Douglas Akins, 52, and Akins' 3-year-old grandson, Anthony Akins. Douglas Akins threw his grandson clear of the oncoming vehicle, saving the boy's life.

Akins and Hickman weren't as fortunate. Both were struck by the SUV.

Related: 9 videos highlight dangers of Michigan high-speed pursuits

Johnnie Hickman

When the Suburban stopped, Washington tried to run, climbing over Staffney to escape through the driver's side window. With a swollen hand and face, Washington said he felt like he ran in slow motion with the police in fast forward. He ran for 60 yards before police captured him at Hiland and Lynnwood and brought him back to the scene of the crash.

There, Washington saw Douglas Akins and Hickman on the ground.

"They were covered in blood and shaking all over, fighting for their lives," Washington said. "I'll never be able to forget that."

Police found Akins south of the vehicle. His legs were broken, and he had severe lacerations to the back of his head. Taken to the hospital at 12:21 p.m., Akins was pronounced dead at 12:55 p.m.

Doug Akins

Hickman had suffered chest trauma. He was pronounced dead at 12:45 p.m. at the hospital.

Washington, who was then a junior at Saginaw High, claims that he yelled at Staffney to stop during the flight from police. He says he contemplated opening the door and jumping or reaching over and shifting the car to park.

Staffney, however, told police that Washington yelled to "go, go, go."

Five years in Marquette prison

Washington served five years in prison for breaking and entering, unlawfully driving away a motor vehicle, resisting a police officer and obstructing a police officer. Staffney was sentenced as an adult and is still in prison.

Washington did not box in prison because it's against the rules. He focused on lifting weights and running to stay in shape. He went to school, earning his general educational development certificate.

Once he got out of prison, he returned to the Shiloh Boxing Club.

"You get out of prison, and things are different," Washington said. "You have to readjust. The boxing club helped me readjust."

Washington won a state Golden Gloves championship in 2009. He earned a spot in the National Golden Gloves Championships in Salt Lake City, where he lost a 3-2 decision in the first round.

He came back to Saginaw and again found trouble. He was convicted of carrying a concealed weapon, resulting in a two-year prison sentence.

Today, he hopes boxing can keep him out of trouble.

"I've tried everything else, but the streets aren't the answer," Washington said. "Boxing forces discipline. Boxing teaches humility. I need both, for my sake and for the sake of my children. I want them to be proud of me. I want them to make the right decisions, not the ones I made.

"Plus, I like it. I like to fight."

Shiloh's head trainer, Jessie Addison, welcomed his protegee back after both prison stints.

"He's 31, but he doesn't have the wear and tear you see on other boxers his age," Addison said. "He hasn't been punched around. He's in great shape. He spent five years away from boxing. Even though he's 31, and that's kind of old to start a pro career, his body isn't broken down like other boxers his age.

"But it comes down to commitment. Is he committed to doing this? He's at an age where if he isn't committed to it, it's going to be too late pretty soon."

As soon as Washington left prison a second time, he returned to Shiloh Boxing Club with a serious goal.

"I made mistakes, bad mistakes, mistakes I have to live with," Washington said. "I made mistakes that I think I've finally learned from. I want my kids to learn from my mistakes. If you look for answers on the streets, you either end up in prison or end up dead."

Seeking forgiveness

Washington says he sought and received forgiveness from the families of those who died, "but even though they say they forgive me, it's different. They were friends, some of them best friends, but it will always be different."

Douglas Akins' sister, Flora Brooks, said she does not blame Washington or Staffney and was quick to forgive both. She wrote to Washington while he was in prison and continues to write Staffney.

"I'm writing a letter for him now that I hope helps him when he goes in front of the parole board," Brooks said of Staffney. "My brother would have been the first to forgive them. The only thing I asked them to do was not to get in trouble again."

Staffney is serving time in Ionia Correctional Facility and was eligible for parole as of April 27, 2013. His maximum release date is Sept. 27, 2021.

"Somebody said I should hate those boys ... I can't hate them," Brooks said. "I pray Joe Staffney gets a chance to make a life, get a family. I want to see him do good. They will pay the rest of their lives with the memory of my brother. They knew my brother. All the kids did."

Washington says he doesn't believe the police should have chased the Suburban through a residential neighborhood 13 years ago. And though police and a crash reconstructionist testified there was no contact between the patrol car and the Suburban, Washington is convinced there was a bump.

"It jumped the curb, but it was still under control," Washington says. "I'll always believe it was bumped. They shouldn't have chased us, not through a residential neighborhood. I'll always believe that.

"I'm not saying that what we did was right. But they shouldn't have chased us through that neighborhood. Those people would still be alive if they didn't chase us."

Brooks agrees.

"The police chased those guys through a residential neighborhood, chasing a truck that had Onstar on it," Brooks said. "I can understand if life and death are involved ... if it's murder or homicide. But it was just a truck. It was a material possession.

"It was during lunchtime, children are walking around. You can always get a truck back. You can always find the person who stole it. I can't get my brother back."

Database: Michigan police chases result in 13 crashes per week; See how many happen near you

In 2005, the families of Akin and Hickman sued the city of Saginaw for more than $2 million in damages. A six-member jury in Saginaw County Circuit Court found the police were not liable for the deaths of Akin and Hickman.

Robert M. Ruth

Saginaw Police Chief Robert Ruth, who was one of the detectives who worked the case in 2001, feels police acted correctly in the incident.

"It was a long time ago, but I still remember it because it was such a sad, sad situation," Ruth said. "But when someone commits a crime, we just can't walk away from it. We have to do our job.

"The control of the situation was in their hands. Number one, they didn't have to steal the car. That was their choice. Number two, they didn't have to run. They could have pulled over. That was their choice. Number three, they could have gotten out of the car and could have run on foot."

Ruth said police do take into account the surrounding area of the chase and the time of the chase.

"We have a command staff that monitors car chases on radio," Ruth said. "If there's a car chase near a school and it's at a time when there will be students walking around, we call the chase off. In this case, the police in pursuit slowed down through the intersection and were very careful.

"But we just can't have a total policy where we don't chase people. That would be even more dangerous because then there's an incentive not to stop and to run from the police, endangering more innocent people. It's a Catch-22 situation. If we don't chase when they run, more will run."

Today, Washington knows he can't go back in time. He enters the boxing ring now for his four children — sons Jamareus Stidham, 7; Vernon Washington Jr., 2, and Vernell Washington, born June 21; and daughter, Vernisha Washington, 3.

He's trying to focus on the present, looking for redemption at Shiloh.

Shiloh is, after all, the Hebrew word for Messiah.