A team of San Diego police officers enter an apartment complex where an officer had shot Angel Lopez, a wanted parolee, on Jan. 17, 2013.

A federal jury on Tuesday sided with a San Diego police officer in the 2013 shooting death of an unarmed parolee during a SWAT operation.

The verdict in the wrongful death lawsuit against Officer Kristopher Walb came after about two days of deliberation.

Walb was sued for excessive force, battery, negligence and wrongful death by the family of Chula Vista gang member Angel Lopez, 27, who was fatally shot in the back during a confrontation with police in a dimly lit hallway in a College Area apartment complex.

Advertisement

“The jury heard all of the evidence and agreed that the officer acted in defense of himself and his fellow officers,” City Attorney Mara Elliott said in a statement Tuesday. “Our police officers have a tough job to do. Not many of us would run toward danger the way these officers did. They put their lives on the line each day they put on their uniforms.”

Eugene Iredale, one of the Lopez family’s attorneys, saw the verdict differently: “The city got away with murder,” he said Wednesday. “This was a man who was unarmed, obviously shot in the back and the back of the head. He was going down at the time he was shot in response to the officer’s order to get down.”

SWAT officers were called to help parole officers arrest Lopez, who was wanted for violating parole, at an apartment on Jan. 17, 2013. He and his father were also suspects in a possible kidnapping involving a male victim and drug-traffickers, according to testimony at trial. Police supervisors told the SWAT team that the duo were involved in a drug cartel, dangerous and likely carrying concealed guns, according to testimony. Lopez had a robbery conviction and history of gun- and drug-related offenses, according to records.

The SWAT team went to the complex on Reservoir Drive, and an officer observed the suspects in a maroon Ford in the parking lot. When police tried to stop and arrest them, the suspects ran in different directions.

Meanwhile, a group of SWAT officers headed up a stairwell toward an apartment connected to Lopez.

As they neared the third floor, Lopez opened the door to the third floor landing, apparently unaware of the advancing officers, Walb said.

Lopez slammed shut the door and ran down the hallway, ignoring Walb’s commands to stop, the officer testified.

“Angel Lopez kept his hand in his pocket the entire time I saw him on the third floor,” Walb said, adding that Lopez at times made a motion as if he was tugging on something inside.

Lopez then stepped into an alcove, yanking on the door of an apartment, but appeared unable to get inside.

By this time, fellow SWAT officers were also noticing Lopez’s hand placement, testified retired Officer James Pickett, who was behind Walb.

Another officer yelled out a warning: “His left hand! Watch his left hand!” Pickett testified.

Lopez continued down the hall away from the officers, but then stopped or slowed, Pickett said. Lopez began to turn toward the officers, to the right, and that’s when Walb fired, he testified. Lopez was shot twice in the back and once in the back of the head.

In 2013, a suspected parolee is taken into custody after a San Diego police SWAT officer shot and killed Angel Lopez, an unarmed parolee, at a College Area apartment. (K.C. Alfred/U-T)

Pickett backed up his fellow officer’s actions, saying he felt like his life and the lives of his colleagues were in danger. “I thought we were ready to engage in gunfire.”

The officers did not go to the fallen Lopez because they did not want to cross in front of the apartment, fearing they may be attacked by others inside, Walb testified. Another team of officers came in from the other end of the hallway and dragged Lopez away for medical treatment, but he died.

Lopez was determined later to be unarmed. In his pockets were drug bindles, a box cutter, handcuff keys and a syringe, the City Attorney’s Office said. Toxicology reports found methamphetamine and opiates in his blood.

Iredale said the testimony of the three officers was contradictory when it came to Lopez’s hand in his pocket. He said the hand-in-the-pocket or waistband defense is a convenient one for officers after a fatal shooting, and that it made no sense for Lopez — faced with machine-gun toting officers— to be grabbing at something in his pocket when he was unarmed.

Pickett agreed in testimony that shooting an unarmed person is “not what we’re trained for.” Still, police are trained — and the law is on their side — that they don’t need to wait for sight of a weapon to fire if they reasonably feel their lives or the lives of others are in immediate danger.

“What is faster, action or reaction?” Pickett testified. “Action would be much faster, reaction would be slower.”

The District Attorney’s Office, which investigates all officer-involved shootings, determined Walb reasonably feared for his life when he fired and that he would not face criminal charges.

Iredale said he plans to file a motion for a new trial and to appeal the verdict.

kristina.davis@sduniontribune.com

Twitter: @kristinadavis

UPDATES:

11:20 a.m. Wednesday: This article was updated with comments from the Lopez family attorney.

This article was originally published at 5:45 p.m. Tuesday.