Farmington police said an officer fatally shot a man while responding to a domestic violence call at a home.Sgt. Joshua Laino said an officer arriving at the home Tuesday night shot Daniel Rey when he confronted the officer while armed with what Laino described as a "large edged weapon."According to Laino, Rey's stepdaughter, Teresa Salazar, had told a police dispatcher that Rey had thrown a small child from a bed, was striking a female and breaking things."They didn't have to kill him," Salazar said.Salazar watched as the officer shot Rey."I was standing right there, and they shot him, and the blood splattered all over me," Salazar said.Rey had been arguing with Salazar's mother. Salazar said she was scared."I just freaked out last night, and I didn't know what to do, so I just got on the phone with the cops," Salazar said.Investigators said the Farmington officer arrived alone and heard a commotion inside the trailer that he went to check out."They asked him to put the weapon down," Salazar said. "He didn't put the weapon down, and they just shot him."Police said Rey was holding a large knife, but it's not clear what made the officer shoot him multiple times."His 3-year-old son (saw) him dead on the floor," Salazar said.The scene was one Salazar said may live with her forever."He was a very good man. He never hurt neither one of us ever. He always took care of us," Salazar said.New Mexico State Police are investigating the shooting, and the Farmington police officer involved in the shooting has been placed on paid leave under department policy.Police said Rey did not appear to have a violent criminal record.

Farmington police said an officer fatally shot a man while responding to a domestic violence call at a home.

Sgt. Joshua Laino said an officer arriving at the home Tuesday night shot Daniel Rey when he confronted the officer while armed with what Laino described as a "large edged weapon."

Advertisement

According to Laino, Rey's stepdaughter, Teresa Salazar, had told a police dispatcher that Rey had thrown a small child from a bed, was striking a female and breaking things.

"They didn't have to kill him," Salazar said.

Salazar watched as the officer shot Rey.

"I was standing right there, and they shot him, and the blood splattered all over me," Salazar said.

Rey had been arguing with Salazar's mother. Salazar said she was scared.

"I just freaked out last night, and I didn't know what to do, so I just got on the phone with the cops," Salazar said.

Investigators said the Farmington officer arrived alone and heard a commotion inside the trailer that he went to check out.

"They asked him to put the weapon down," Salazar said. "He didn't put the weapon down, and they just shot him."

Police said Rey was holding a large knife, but it's not clear what made the officer shoot him multiple times.

"His 3-year-old son (saw) him dead on the floor," Salazar said.

The scene was one Salazar said may live with her forever.

"He was a very good man. He never hurt neither one of us ever. He always took care of us," Salazar said.

New Mexico State Police are investigating the shooting, and the Farmington police officer involved in the shooting has been placed on paid leave under department policy.

Police said Rey did not appear to have a violent criminal record.