Jacob Grassley

KALAMAZOO, MI

-- On the

, Grassley was "dangerous, unpredictable, armed and it was reasonable to believe he would shoot at police in an effort to escape arrest," said Kalamazoo County Prosecutor Jeffrey Getting.

In fact, shortly before he was shot as he was being followed by police, Grassley told his girlfriend in a cellphone call that he was "going to die."

Grassley, 34, was unarmed when he was shot twice in the back by Gordon during a Jan. 24 confrontation at Kalamazoo's Best Western Hotel, the prosecutor said at a press conference Friday.

Getting said a thorough investigation of the incident convinced him that Gordon's actions were justified.

"Sgt. Gordon's decision was honest and reasonable" considering the circumstances, Getting said in announcing his decision not to pursue criminal charges in the case.

"The situation that confronted Sergeant Gordon on January 24, 2013, was entirely of Mr. Grassley's own making," he said. "The Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety did everything that it could to end the incident nonviolently."

Gordon has been on paid leave since the shooting, and will return to work next week now that he has been cleared, Public Safety Chief Jeff Hadley said at the press conference.

Gordon, a Kalamazoo public safety officer for almost 15 years, has no record of disciplinary actions for using excessive force. He has been a member of the department's SWAT team since 2003 and was promoted to sergeant in 2008.

Gordon is "relieved" that Getting's report that clears him of wrongdoing, Hadley said.

"I can tell you that he was very humbled by the experience," Hadley said. "He's been analyzing it, if you will. He did what he had to do, but it's been tough for him.

"He made a difficult decision, a reasonable decision, even a courageous decision" in the Jan. 24 incident, the chief said. "These are not easy decisions to make. It's not one that is taken lightly.

"The tragic thing is that someone lost a life and a little girl lost her dad," Hadley said.

The chain of events that culminated in the shooting started with a domestic dispute during a birthday party for Grassley's 2-year-old daughter, Getting said.

Getting detailed the events of Jan. 24 in a nine-page report that he released at the press conference.

The report said that police were called at 2:14 p.m. to 2724 S. Westnedge Ave., the home that Grassley shared with his daughter and the girl's mother, Meghan Parsons.

Parson said police that she had been assaulted by Grassley, who hit her with a roll of wrapping paper and left her with marks on her face. Grassley had left the house by the time police arrived, so officers documented Parsons' injuries and left.

Two hours later, Parsons called police again and said that Grassley had returned, collected three guns -- two .40-caliber Glock semiautomatic handguns and a SKS rifle -- and was acting in a manner that made her "afraid for her life," the prosecutor's report said.

Getting wrote that Parsons also told police Grassley was "extremely depressed. That he had lost his job. That he was losing his house. That he had been frequently abusing marijuana, but could not buy any for the past two days which made him even more agitated and confrontational. She told Lt. (Stacey) Giek that Mr. Grassley had a criminal history in Ohio and that he said he would not be going back to jail."

"When asked if she thought he would shoot at police Ms. Parsons paused, hung her head lower, and said she didn't know what he might do. She repeated her statement that he said he would not go back to jail. Lt. Geik was left with the impression that Jacob Grassley was dangerous, unpredictable, armed and that it was reasonable to believe he would shoot at police in an effort to escape arrest."

Fearing for Parsons' safety, Grassley's parents and police checked her into the Best Western Hotel, 3620 Cork St., under an assumed name.

Meanwhile, KDPS put out an alert for Grassley, and it was Gordon located Grassley's 1999 Cadillac DeVille about 9:40 p.m. in the Westnedge Hill neighborhood.

A police chase ensued, and the report describes a scene where Grassley sped through stoplights while ignoring a line of police cars with lights and sirens activated. At one point, Grassley drove his car over spike strips set out by police, flattening both front tires, "but despite the damage to his vehicle, the obvious police presence all around him and the fleet of police cars directly behind him, Mr. Grassley continued to the Best Western Hotel."

Police later learned that Parsons and Grassley were talking by cell phone and she told him where she was staying.

At the hotel, Grassley pulled up to the front door and quickly entered. The hotel clerk told police that Grassley had a "look on his face that was hard to describe but a look like he knew he was done, that this was the end of the line."

Gordon was the first officer to follow him in, entering the lobby about seven seconds after Grassley, the report said. Two other officers followed closely behind, and police yelled for Grassley to halt.

Grassley headed up a spiral staircase at the center of the lobby, ignoring police orders to stop. After Grassley reached the top of the stairs, ignoring shouts from Gordon to stop, Gordon fired three shots from his M4 rifle. One struck Grassley in his right buttocks and another in his lower back. A third missed him.

Gordon was the only officer "that had a clear line of fire" and the only officer to fire his weapon, prosecutor's report said.

Interviewed later, Gordon said he saw a dark object in Grassley's hand, which turned out to be a cellphone, Getting said. Grassley was unarmed. Police later found a loaded .40 caliber Glock 23 semiautomatic handgun in the car, and learned he had left the other two guns with a friend.

The cause of death was the gunshot wound to the torso, the report said.

The report said that shortly before he was shot, Grassley told Parsons in a cell phone call "he was going to die because of me" and it was the last thing he said to her.

While Getting said he didn't want to speculate about Grassley's intentions, it was clear that police had a reasonable fear that he could harm Parsons or others at the hotel.

"Mr. Grassley chose to escalate the situation at every turn," Getting said. "He committed an act of domestic violence. He returned home and armed himself. He fled from the scene a second time. He made statement expressing his refusal to be taken into custody. He committed a felony criminal offense by fleeing the police when they tried to stop him.

"Finally, Mr. Grassley fled into a crowded hotel. He attempted to place himself in a tactically superior position to the police. Allowing Mr. Grassley to escape into a crowded hotel would have placed the police and all of the hotel's occupants at great risk of death or seriously body harm.

"Mr. Grassley's actions told the police, in no uncertain terms, that he would not be stopped without violence. Sgt. Gordon had every reason to believe that Mr. Grassley was trying to cause a shootout with the police."