A Vancouver police officer fatally shot a 16-year-old armed robbery suspect on Friday night.



Authorities with Vancouver Police and Clark County Sheriff's Office were investigating a home invasion shooting that injured one and two armed robberies from earlier that day when they confronted Douglas E. Combs and another 16-year-old near East 19th Street and E Street in Vancouver. Officers believe Combs is the primary suspect in the three crimes.



After attempting contact with the two 16-year-olds, police say an officer shot Combs. Officers said Combs had been armed at the time of the shooting, and was pronounced dead at the scene.



The Vancouver police officer who shot Combs is currently on administrative leave, in line with departmental policy, according to Vancouver Police spokeswoman Kim Kapp. The officer was not identified.



The second 16-year-old was interviewed, arrested and booked into the Clark County Juvenile Detention Center for unlawful possession of a firearm. Authorities did not release his identity.



Shortly before the incident, Combs had visited Pop Culture, a local music venue, for a dance party. Joey LeBard, the owner of Pop Culture, remembered stamping the hand of Combs, who paid the admission for three of his friends.



"He just went and sat down with his friends," LeBard said. "They were super mellow."



Katie Cutright, an employee there, remembers seeing Combs come in with his friends. The 16-year-old had struck up a conversation with Cutright and another employee, telling them he wanted to come back and rap. He left his name, Cutright said, but no contact information.



"He was just a regular kid and he was kind of flirting with us," said Cutright. "He just seemed like a scared little boy, who was really nervous, but nice."



Combs and his friend had been the last ones to leave the venue, according to Cutright. She locked the door behind them and thanked them for coming, she said. "'We'll be back next week,'" Cutright said. "That's what he said to me."



LeBard, who lives close to the venue, said an officer had approached him earlier that night at his home. LeBard told police that Combs was still at Pop Culture, and was told he shouldn't return to the scene. LeBard said he had assumed they would would just arrest the teen.



Not long after, LeBard was awakened by the sound of gunfire. "I just fell asleep and then I heard, 'pop-pop-pop-pop,'" said LeBard. "I knew they killed him."



Authorities believe Combs was responsible for three crimes on Jan. 25: a 1 a.m. home invasion shooting on the 1100 block of Northeast Minnehaha Street, a 5:30 a.m. armed robbery of the 7-11 convenience store on the 4500 block of Northeast St. Johns Boulevard, and a 6:30 p.m. armed robbery at a Shell convenience store near Andresen and Fourth Plain.



The Clark County's Sheriff Office had been handling the home invasion, while Vancouver Police were investigating the armed robberies, according to Kapp.



Kapp said the identity of the officer may be released early next week. Camas Police are handling the investigation.



-- Nicole Dungca

Follow @ndungca

