A Harrisburg police officer was justified in using deadly force when he shot and killed

, according to Dauphin County District Attorney Edward Marsico Jr.

Officer Marc Hall shot Ishmael Muhammad, 29, two times in the chest on Jan. 28, 2013. Police said Muhammad barricaded himself in an Evergreen Street apartment with two hostages, a 2-year-old boy and a disabled man.

Marsico's investigation of the fatal shooting —

which was the

— r

evealed that Muhammad,

, threatened to kill police officers 20 times during the incident.

He also threatened to cut the throats of the hostages and "drink their blood" if anyone came near the apartment, Marsico said after interviewing police who were on scene that day and reviewing forensic reports.

A summary report of Marsico's investigation also revealed the following:

The incident started on the morning of Jan. 28 after Muhammad returned to the apartment at 121 Evergreen St. that he shared with his girlfriend. An argument ensued and Muhammad threw his girlfriend around the apartment and began punching her and pulling her hair.

Muhammad also threatened his girlfriend, who was four months pregnant, and told her he was going to kill her if she lost her baby. The girlfriend then ran to a neighbor's residence.

Muhammad showed up at that residence with a bat and stick and forced his way inside. He tried to wrestle a friend of his girlfriend's to the ground after the girlfriend ran out a back door and called police. She advised police that Muhammad had smoked "wet," or PCP, in the past.

Muhammad then returned to his apartment on Evergreen Street, where he took the two hostages, who were his girlfriend's 2-year-son and disabled brother.

Police officers arrived on scene around noon. An officer knocked on the apartment door and Muhammad banged back on the door with a machete. He also told the officer to come into the apartment "so he could chop off his head."

Muhammad later broke a window and pointed the machete at an officer. He also threw a plate at two other officers and used a bed frame to ram an officer who was holding a protective shield.

Muhammad also ripped cabinets off the wall, tore open a water pipe, put mattresses in front of windows he had broken out and used a refrigerator to barricade a door. He started saying, "I'm going to sacrifice someone," and remained hostile as he spoke with a negotiator of the county's Crisis Emergency Response Team and a family member.

Officers eventually used a ram to break through a door to the apartment, and they twice instructed Muhammad to drop the machete. He instead raised it in a threatening manner and told the officers to shoot him before he made a motion "as if he was going to lunge at the officers."

That's when Hall shot Muhammad. Two other officers witnessed the shooting and another police safely removed the hostages from the apartment.

Toxicology tests revealed that Muhammad had 140 milligrams of PCP in his blood. A blood test also revealed that a synthetic cannabinoid — or group of compounds present in cannabis — were found in his system. The drug is commonly marketed as Spice, K2 or Space, police said.

Additionally, police in a canvass of the apartment recovered 30 packets of heroin and other synthetic cannabinoids.

The investigation also revealed that Muhammad had received outpatient mental health therapy in 2012.

PennLive has requested reports of 2013 officer-involved shootings as Marsico's office investigates Sunday's fatal shooting involving another Harrisburg police officer.