NEWTON N.C. – Documents released Thursday by the Catawba County Sheriff’s Office provide new details of the events that led to the fatal shooting of Angie Hall on Tuesday.

An incident report says that Hall was inside her residence with her two young children prior to the 911 call that alerted law enforcement to the incident at 4787 U.S. 70 East in Catawba.

The children said that before they fled their residence their mother pointed a pistol at them and pulled the trigger several times, but the gun did not fire.

The pistol was a Sig Sauer 9 mm pistol that belongs to Hall’s husband, Michael David Hall. Michael Hall said that he stored the pistol in a case along with the magazine, but said he never stored the gun with its magazine inserted.

Deputies were dispatched after Angie Hall’s mother-in-law, Ruth Ester Hall, who lives next door at 4777 U.S. 70 East, called 911 at 12:32 p.m. to report that her two grandchildren had run from their residence to hers to inform her that their mother had tried to shoot them, was suicidal, and had a gun.

Part of the incident report released is written by an officer who arrived at the residence as the shots were being fired that killed Hall. The officer reports walking to the back yard of the residence and seeing Angie Hall laying on the ground.

After securing the scene, the officer spoke with Ruth Hall.

The officer reports that Ruth Hall began to cry and hyperventilate when she was told her daughter-in-law was dead. Once Ruth Hall calmed down, the officer asked Ruth Hall to explain what had happened. The report says Ruth Hall’s statements include:

-Angie Hall had been “very stressed and preoccupied emotionally and mentally with the ending of the world.” Her obsession with the end of the world intensified after her grandmother died two weeks ago. Her grandmother had had dementia and had been “counseling Angie on the preparedness of the end of the world. Angie was close to her grandmother and has had a hard time emotionally with her death.”

-Angie Hall homeschools her children, but she took them to a location away from their residence where she taught with other home-schooling mothers. Ruth Hall was concerned on Tuesday because she had seen the children in the yard before the incident and it was unusual for them to be home on a school day.

-When the children came running from their residence they were screaming, “‘Momma has a gun and tried to kill us. Now she is outside with it and going to kill herself.’”

Ruth Hall met the children in front of their residence after she was alerted by their screams and saw Angie Hall outside with a gun. She called 911 and took the children into her own residence next door.

Angie Hall was shot by a Deputy Dennis Smith after she pointed her husband’s pistol at Smith. She was pronounced dead at the scene. The pistol was found beside her after the incident with the magazine in the gun but no bullet in the chamber.

An investigation is ongoing.