Brett Kelman

TDS

The fatal shooting of an unarmed cyclist in 2013 will ultimately cost the Indio Police Department a total of $2.6 million, although the expense will be covered by an insurance company.

The family of Alejandro Rendon was awarded a $1.9 million settlement in July. Last month, attorneys for the department agreed to pay an additional $725,000 in attorney fees and legal costs. Paul Zeglovitch, a liability program manager with California Joint Powers Insurance Authority, confirmed the total settlement amount on Wednesday morning.

The family's attorney, David Kenner, would not discuss the settlement. Indio police spokesman Sgt. Dan Marshall said the agency didn't know the details of the settlement because it was handled by the insurance company.

Rendon, a 23-year-old farm worker, was shot by Indio police Officer Alex Franco on Miles Avenue about 11:30 p.m. Feb. 14, 2013.

Rendon was riding a bicycle when Franco decided to stop the "suspicious" cyclist, who may have been missing a headlight.

Rendon, who had marijuana and methamphetamine in his system, tried to flee from the officer. He abandoned his bicycle on the sidewalk, then rushed toward a chain-link fence. Franco stopped his car in the roadway, stepped out of the driver's side door and opened fire.

According to federal court documents, Franco said that at the moment he shot the cyclist, Rendon was facing him, staring him down over the hood of the patrol car. Rendon was unarmed, but Franco said the young man raised his hands together, as if he was holding a pistol.

Two expert witnesses have disputed Franco's story, insisting that Rendon was shot in the back as he tried to escape over the fence.

Dr. Michael Baden, a retired medical examiner and forensic pathologist, and Ronald Scott, a retired ballistics expert from the Massachusetts State Police, both said Rendon's bullet wounds reveal he was shot from behind and below as he swung over the fence.

Despite testimony that questions Franco's version of the shooting, the Indio Police Department supported the officer's decision to fire on the cyclist. The Riverside County Sheriff's Department, which conducted a criminal investigation of the shooting, said their findings "corroborated" Franco's version of the shooting, according to a department statement.