DURHAM, N.C. — The family of a Durham 18-year-old who died during a traffic stop almost two years ago alleges that he was shot by a Durham County deputy and didn't kill himself, as authorities have said.

The parents of J’Mauri Jysha Bumpass are seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages from Sheriff Clarence Birkhead and five Durham County deputies in a federal wrongful death lawsuit filed Tuesday. The lawsuit also claims that the deputies violated Bumpass' constitutional rights through the use of excessive force and that Birkhead has repeatedly obstructed justice.

What happened after the traffic stop is in dispute. The Durham County Sheriff's Office has stated that Bumpass shot himself in the head, but the lawsuit lays out a theory of an extensive coverup, including deputies delaying paramedics from pulling Bumpass from the car to ensure he wouldn't survive and be able to say what happened.

The lawsuit alleges that Deputy Anthony Sharp and Deputy Robert Osborne, who was a trainee at the time, gave conflicting statements about why they pulled Bumpass over that night, and their stories about the shooting also weren't consistent, with one saying he saw the glass on the driver's window blow out after the shot and the other saying it went through the back window.

After the shot was fired, Bumpass' car accelerated forward, rounded a curve and crashed into a light pole, flipping on its side.

The deputies never called for first responders to come to the scene, and when paramedics did show up, the deputies delayed them from treating Bumpass, according to the lawsuit. Also, the deputies were quick to tell others who responded to the scene that Bumpass was dead from a self-inflicted shot to the head, the lawsuit states, even though a backpack obscured his head inside the car after the crash.

"Despite no one being able to see the head wound J'Mauri Bumpass had suffered, Defendant Sharp knew Mr. Bumpass had been shot in the head because he and Defendant Osborne had shot him – one the actual shooter while the other provided cover," the lawsuit states.

"While we typically do not comment on pending litigation, we can state that neither Deputies Sharp, Osborne nor any deputy with the Durham County Sheriff’s Office fired their weapon nor in any other way caused the death of J’Mauri Bumpass," sheriff's office spokeswoman AnnMarie Breen said in an email to WRAL News on Friday. "We will reserve further comment until we have had the opportunity to review the lawsuit."

Neither of the deputies' guns were tested to determine if they had been fired, while tests on the deputies' hands were inconclusive, according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit also alleges that a shell casing found at the scene didn't match the gun the deputies said had been found in Bumpass' car and that wiring to the dashboard camera in the deputies' patrol car had been tampered with, preventing it from recording the incident.

The State Bureau of Investigation never reviewed the shooting because Birkhead had classified it as a suicide, allowing his own investigators to handle the case, according to the lawsuit.

The sheriff then repeatedly refused to turn over documents about the investigation into Bumpass' death, and the sheriff's office still has custody of Bumpass' cellphone, according to the lawsuit.

"Instead of investigating what occurred on the early morning of December 15, 2019, Defendant Sheriff Birkhead has sought only evidence to corroborate the Defendants' claim of suicide – finding none – while acting to prevent the Plaintiff from learning the truth about how Mr. Bumpass was shot to death," the lawsuit states.