UPDATE, 12:48 p.m.

Bristol Virginia Police Department Steve Crawford said Saturday that the victim in Friday night's fatal crash on State Street was identified as William Marcella, 43, of Moore Street, Bristol, Va.

Marcella was the driver of a late model Oldsmobile that struck two vehicles before becoming airborne and landing in front of the Paramount Center for the Performing Arts.

The name of an individual sitting in a parked van struck by Marcella is being treated for injuries and his name has still not been released, Crawford said.

Marcella's body has been sent to the Virginia Medical Examiner's Office in Roanoke for an autopsy and toxicology testing, the officer said.

Reconstruction officers from Bristol, Tenn., Bristol, Virginia and Abingdon, Virginia are currently working on a report for the fatal crash, Crawford noted.

BRISTOL, Va. — A multi-car crash on State Street, involving vehicles in both Tennessee and Virginia, ended with a male driver pronounced dead and his car coming to a stop in front of the Paramount Center for the Arts.

Virginia Police Sgt. Steve Crawford said preliminary investigations indicate that a red late-model Oldsmobile with Ohio license plates was traveling eastbound on State Street at a high rate of speed when he hit head-on with a Chevrolet Astro van parked on the Virginia side. The crash occurred about 8:45 p.m.

Crawford said it appears that the driver of the Oldsmobile might have died after his vehicle hit the van, but investigators are still piecing together the evidence.

Eyewitnesses told the Bristol Herald Courier that the car continued to travel at a high speed after the impact with the van. Crawford said the Oldsmobile, as it traveled down the street, sideswiped a Chevrolet Tahoe driven by Paula Peters of Bristol, Tenn., who was stopped at a red light at the intersection of State and Sixth streets.

"I heard something like a gas explosion, very loud like a train, then we felt a shift of our car when he hit us as he went by," Peters told the Herald Courier late Friday.

A man who was sitting inside the Chevy Van when it was hit was taken out of the automobile by emergency workers and transported to a local hospital.

The Oldsmobile was reportedly airborne and flipping as it continued down State Street, finally coming to a rest about half a foot away from the double-striped line on the street, directly in front of the Paramount and two and a half blocks from its initial impact with the van.

Erica Hale, who also was stopped at the red light, said "sparks were everywhere" as the Oldsmobile spun out of control. She said the sounds of a big crash caught her attention and as she turned toward the noise, she saw the Oldsmobile in the air.

"He spun and flipped through the air, straight down the middle of the street,” she said, as a packed group of pedestrians flowed out of downtown eateries and packed the sidewalks to examine the crash scene.

“I am just amazed his car stayed in the street and didn't go into a building or that someone didn't get hurt on the sidewalk,” Hale said. “He was flying."

Crawford said because the initial crash took place on the Virginia side of State Street, the Bristol Virginia Police Department was assigned primary jurisdiction for working and investigating the crash.

"It's all preliminary at this point, but we do think alcohol was involved, and that the fatality took place in Virginia although the car came to a rest on the Tennessee side," Crawford said.

Crawford also said that preliminary reports indicate the man killed in the crash had hit a pole at the corner of State and 13th Street shortly before the crash, and that particular incident was witnessed by a police officer.

"There was not a pursuit," Crawford said.

Automobile crash reconstruction units from the department were arriving on the scene just after 10:30 p.m. Friday to start piecing together a report.

A good portion of State Street was closed as fire department and police officers from both states worked the crash scenes and investigators gathered a group of eyewitnesses near Sixth Street for interviews. The street was expected to remain closed for several hours.

Crawford said the name of the deceased driver and the injured man in the van were not being released Friday night.

Twitter: @BHCCastle