RANCHO CORDOVA (CBS13) - A man with apparent mental issues was shot and killed by an officer during a confrontation in Rancho Cordova on Monday night.

The shooting happened shortly after 5 p.m. in the 3400 block of Nut Plains Drive, Sacramento County sheriff's Sgt. Jason Ramos confirmed.

Police have identified the man as 35-year-old Paul Tereschenko.

Tereschenko's family members would later tell police that it wasn't the first time they've had to call the cops. Again, it was their relative's strange behavior that had them on edge. They wanted him to leave and he wouldn't.

Police say it was clear something wasn't quite right with him.

"He was acting very bizarrely, saying things that didn't make much sense," Sacramento County sheriff's Sgt. Jason Ramos said.

But Tereschenko went from bizarre to violent when two Rancho Cordova officers, contracted to the city through the sheriff's department, tried explaining to the man that he wasn't under arrest but needed to see a doctor immediately.

Investigators say even a Taser gun had no effect as Tereschenko started punching both officers in the face. The struggle in a back bedroom unfolded with other family still inside the home.

Tereschenko wasn't armed but was "very large individual, strong in stature," Ramos said. "Once the physical altercation took place between him and officers, they had their hands full."

Faced with a flurry of punches, one officer reportedly drew his gun and fired at the unarmed man, striking him in the chest. He died in that back bedroom.

Neighbor Miles Beeson said the family members keep to themselves and didn't cause trouble.

"We never heard them arguing or anything," he said. "Just a lot of cars coming and going."

Monday night, the home was full of patrol cars and wrapped in crime tape in the aftermath of a bizarre episode with a deadly ending.

The officer involved in the shooting is assigned to patrol services with Rancho Cordova's police department and is a 13-year veteran of the sheriff's department.