Lisa Reicosky

If a budget compromise among lawmakers in Washington D.C. remains elusive, spending cuts totaling $85 billion will begin Friday.

The news couldn’t be worse for Maria Goss, the new director of Stark County’s Head Start program.

The budget sequestration will mean swift and sharp cuts to Head Start — a federally funded free program that focuses on kindergarten readiness.

“We will lose children, as well as staff, immediately,” said Goss.

The preschool program is designed to academically prepare children from low-income families for elementary school. Ironically, the program was specifically mentioned by President Barack Obama in his State of the Union speech as one he wants to significantly expand.

Stark County’s program, like all Head Start programs, is funded through federal grants.

According to the White House press office, Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 2,500 children in Ohio, reducing access to critical early education, should the budget cuts happen.

Nationwide, the spending reductions would cut $406 million from Head Start through the end of the fiscal year. And according to the National Head Start Association, 62,887 children would lose services within the next seven months alone.

Goss is not yet sure how many of the county’s 855 Head Start children and 94 Early Head Start children would lose services, but it would be significant, she said.

Most problematic would be the loss to those Head Start families of other Stark County Community Action Agency services such as housing, utilities, and employment help.

Goss said she is in a “wait and see” mode right now, and prefers to lean toward the positive side with hope that Obama’s planned expansion will happen.

Obama’s plan would create a new federal-state partnership that would provide preschool programs for 4-year-olds from low- and moderate-income families, and create a new Early Head Start Child Care partnership paid for through competitive grants.

Goss also will have her eye on Canton City Schools and its possible preschool expansion in the fall.

Canton City Schools Superintendent Adrian Allison announced last week plans to offer preschool at seven of the district’s 14 elementary schools with a goal of serving 1,000 preschool students, up from 277 this year.

Goss said she hopes to partner with the district and work as a team. As director of Head Start in Columbus, she worked with several public school districts to offer preschool to more children.

Allison said the district is still studying the Obama proposal and the possible expansion of Head Start.

“The expansion proposal is consistent with our belief that the earlier we are able to begin educating students, the greater our chances at helping them achieve mastery of the knowledge they need to succeed in life,” Allison wrote in an email. “... It is our hope that if the expansion occurs, it will assist our restructuring plan and help us provide the early childhood education our students need.”

Goss said she is excited about the opportunities here and looks forward to focusing on quality services for the county’s children.

Head Start history

Head Start was designed to help break the cycle of poverty, providing preschool children from low-income families with a comprehensive program to meet their emotional, social, health, nutritional and psychological needs. A key principle of the program is that it be culturally responsive to the communities served, and that the communities have an investment in its success through the contribution of volunteer hours and other donations as nonfederal share.

In the summers of 1965 and 1966, the Office of Economic Opportunity launched an eight-week Project Head Start. In 1969, under the Nixon administration, Head Start was transferred from the Office of Economic Opportunity to the Office of Child Development in the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

Source: www.nhsa.org