By Jess Rollins;

Springfield police were justified when they fatally shot 29-year-old Martin Y. Potts during a gunbattle last year, according to the Greene County Prosecutor’s Office.

Over the past several weeks, prosecutors have been reviewing details of the Feb. 22 shootout and released their findings Tuesday.

The prosecutor said Potts refused to obey the officers’ commands, shot Detective Travis Wilson and fired at or attempted to fire at several other officers.

Shooting Potts, the prosecutor said, was necessary for officers to protect themselves and each other.

Officers reported that Potts fired at police on multiple occasions during the 10-minute exchange.

The report says he carried a silver-handled pistol and a shotgun; Potts changed positions and took cover behind parked vehicles on the property.

Police investigation reports, released to the News-Leader on Tuesday, reveal evidence of an intense — though lopsided — firefight.

Some officers emptied entire magazines of MP5 automatic weapons before they changed to a sidearm and continued to fire.

Dashcam police car videos released to the News-Leader after a Sunshine request have sounds of numerous rounds of automatic gunfire.

Four nearby trailer homes were damaged by bullets.

In all, 10 officers fired at Potts.

The medical examiner counted 73 bullet wounds on Potts’ body.

The autopsy also found methamphetamine and amphetamine, along with cough syrup and antihistamine, in his system.

Springfield Police Chief Paul Williams had long maintained — and the prosecutor’s office concurs — that Potts shot first and his officers responded appropriately during the 10-minute battle at a residence and outbuilding at 2506 W. Grand St.

The incident began as police were investigating a string of commercial burglaries in the 3100 block of West Chestnut Expressway.

According to police reports, one burglary occurred at Miller Auto, 3100 W. Chestnut Expressway, between 10 and 11:30 p.m. on the day before the shootout.

A second burglary occurred within minutes at nearby Trantham’s Bait and Tackle, 3118 W. Chestnut Expressway.

That night, police found a truck they believed was stolen from Miller Auto. It was wrecked and abandoned in the 700 block of North West Avenue.

From there, officers tracked footprints in the snow to the home at 2506 W. Grand St. Police documents say the home was a “known drug house.”

There, police set up a perimeter and tried to get the suspect to leave the home. That effort was unsuccessful, and the Special Response Team was sent in to serve the search warrant.

During the execution of the warrant, the gunfight began when the suspect emerged from an outbuilding and began shooting — grazing Wilson.

Wilson and another detective returned fire and retreated as Special Response Team officers took positions around the outbuilding.

Potts emerged from the outbuilding and crouched behind a car where, the reports say, Potts pointed a shotgun toward officers.

Officers fired at Potts, who fled to the west, then to the north. As he ran, the report says, Potts fired at several officers with both a handgun and a shotgun.

Special Response officers fired at Potts as they advanced to where he had taken cover, behind a pickup truck.

They saw Potts, the report says, on the ground but moving his hand and arms, possibly trying to retrieve the shotgun near him.

Officers continued to fire until they believed Potts was “incapacitated” by a shot to the head.

The report, which contains detailed descriptions compiled from numerous interviews, video, evidence collection and reports of the scene, describes Potts’ final moments this way:

“When the officers get around the truck, the subject is located in some brush near the truck. The shotgun is near the subject and the handgun is not visible. SRT Officer Loe gave the subject verbal commands to quit moving. SRT Officer Trusler observed one of the subject’s hands and that the subject is still moving despite SRT Officer Loe’s commands to stop.”

“SRT Officer Stowe observed the subject’s left hand extended and moving as if reaching for something. SRT Officer Loe observed the subject looking at him while moving his hands near his waist in close proximity to the shotgun. The officers perceived that the subject was reaching for a weapon and was still a threat. The officers shot the subject and he quit moving.”

Involved officers have been identified as Wilson, Detective Michael Karnes, Officer Don Mitchell, Officer Dawn Davis, Officer Tyler Mallow, SRT Officer Jason Trusler, SRT Officer Jason Friend, SRT Officer John Loe, SRT Officer John Stowe and SRT Sgt. Chad Eutsler.

Williams said no other agency was involved in the investigation because Springfield police had sufficient manpower and expertise.

Potts had a criminal history.

He was released from prison less than two months before the shootout. He had served about six years of a nine-year prison sentence after being convicted of burglary in Greene County in 2007.

In that April 9, 2007 case, Potts kicked in his ex-fiancee’s door and held a knife to her throat. Court documents filed in the case say Potts told bystanders that he would kill her if anyone called the police.

In 2003, Potts had been convicted of tampering and stealing.