Initial reports indicate Allentown police were justified when they fatally shot a machete-wielding man today, authorities said.

The man, whose identity authorities have not released, was pronounced dead at 2:10 p.m. at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Salisbury Township, about two hours and 40 minutes after he was

in the city.

"This appears to me to be a totally justifiable response by law enforcement," Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said at a news conference this evening, adding the incident was regrettable. "These officers were in peril."

Four officers have been placed on administrative leave, Martin said: two who fired stun guns and two who discharged their firearms.

Police were working this afternoon to identify the man. Police said the man was Hispanic and in his 30s or 40s. An autopsy is scheduled Friday morning to determine his cause and manner of death.

Police officers responded to the scene after receiving multiple reports of a suspicious man carrying a machete, walking along 12th Street from Linden Street, according to Allentown police Assistant Chief

.

Martin said when officers encountered the man he was combative, mumbling and making "wild motions" with the machete, which was estimated to be 1 1/2 to 2 feet long.

"They were concerned he was at one point going to throw the machete," Martin said.

Stunned and shot

At that point two officers used their stun guns, one hitting the man, but officers said it appeared to have to no effect, perhaps due to his heavy clothing. The man used the machete to cut the stun gun wires off of him, Martin said.

The man continued to be combative and one officer fired his gun once or twice but that had no effect if the man was struck, Martin said. During the confrontation the man ducked behind a pickup truck and at one point brought the machete over his head and began waving it within feet of the officers, Martin said.

Officers again used stun guns on the man and two officers also shot several rounds at him, striking him, Martin said. Martin said the man was still not deterred and was thrashing and combative as officers handcuffed him and waited for medical assistance.

A total of 13 shell casings were covered at the scene, Martin said. The officers were uninjured, though two were exposed to blood and one was treated.

Previous encounter

Authorities said police previously encountered the man Wednesday, eventually following him to the 1200 block of Turner Street, where they believe he lived. He appeared to have some mental health issues and police were concerned about him, authorities said.

At the home, police encountered a woman, described as the man's girlfriend or common-law wife, and tried to convince her to get him treatment. Because he had not committed a crime police could not force him, Martin said.

Officers are interviewing the woman, who apparently does not know the man's true name, he said. It seems they've been dating for a few months.

Martin emphasized the investigation is ongoing and in its early stages. It will be up to Martin to determine if the killing was justified following an investigation by Allentown Police Department's criminal investigators and the Lehigh County Homicide Task Force. Martin declined to release the names of the officers involved.

"We certainly keep an open mind with these things," Martin said.

The officers will remain on administrative leave until Martin renders a decision, Hanna said. Allentown's critical incident team today debriefed the officers involved, including a psychological assessment. The team will follow up with officers in a few days to ensure they're coping well, Hanna said.

The department's Taser review board will also investigate to see if the stun guns worked properly, Hanna said.