SILVERTON -- One week before an elderly man opened fire Monday at an RV park outside the city limits, wounding a staffer, park management reported the man to police for threatening and delusional behavior.

Police identified the shooter as Jimmie Eugene Hickey, 78, and Hickey's victim as Nicholas Lee Fisher, 32. Fisher was listed in good condition at Legacy Emanuel Medical Center on Tuesday. Hickey, shot by law enforcement officers, died of his wounds.

Hickey was a former resident of the

, said owner Terry Glenn, and his

during the 30-minute spree appeared to be Fisher, the parks assistant manager.

Hickey "had delusions that people were after him and were going to harm him," Glenn said. "He seemed to have a particular interest in the fellow that was shot, an irrational focus. I don't know why."

The gunfire and subsequent shootout

.

A Silverton RV park was the scene Monday of a shootout between police and an armed man.

Deputies responded about 1:50 p.m. to the RV park at 12622 Silverton Road N.E. after reports of a man armed with a rifle and handgun "randomly shooting throughout the park," according to Sheriff Jason Myers.

Darla Norwood, 55, at home in her fifth wheel trailer in the southwest corner of the park, heard "so much gunfire" break out at the park's rustic lodge.

"We looked out and he was walking and just firing," Norwood said. The gunman then drove through the park, pulling into a space behind her RV.

She watched the man dump shells from a pistol before reloading it and inserting a fresh clip into a rifle at a picnic table on a small hill.

Police found the suspect behind a picnic table on a small hill in the southwest part of the RV park, said Don Thomson, a spokesman for the Marion County Sheriff's Office.

Hickey was hit by at least one round before being taken to the hospital. An autopsy performed by the state medical examiner's office reveals the suspect died of several gunshot wounds.

Keizer Police Department, which is investigating the shooting, said the law enforcement officers involved were: Deputy Ryan Postlewait, 34, a seven-year veteran of the Marion County Sheriffs Office; Trooper Nick (Nicholas) Rhoades, 30, a seven-year Oregon State Police veteran; and Trooper James Andrews, 33, with four years on the state police force.

All have been placed on administrative leave pending the conclusion of the investigation.

[Read

from Keizer Police Department.]

Glenn, the park owner, said Hickey moved his fifth-wheel trailer into the RV park a few months ago. He covered his windows with duct tape and believed that a group that meant him harm was trying to pump gasoline into the RV. Glenn said Hickey came to believe that the assistant manager was part of the conspiracy.

Jimmie E. Hickey

On Feb. 19, the park manager saw Hickey with a gun in his pocket, Glenn said. The manager confronted Hickey, who said he had a concealed weapons permit.

"That escalated it in our minds," said Glenn. "It went from an old guy doing kind of weird things to an old guy being a serious danger."

On Feb. 20, after Hickey made threats to kill people, managers contacted a Marion County sheriff's deputy to ask that Hickey be evaluated and his weapons removed, Glenn said. Managers asked Hickey to leave the park that same day, and he did.

Glenn said Marion County officials told him that a mental health team would evaluate Hickey on Feb. 21. Scott Richard, deputy directory of adult services for Marion County Mental Health, couldn't confirm whether or not an evaluation occurred.

[Read a

from Silver Spur]

Silverton's mayor, Stu Rasmussen, visited the RV park early Tuesday. He said the fatal shooting was Silverton's third in two decades.



"In this person's mental state, the last thing he needed in his hands was a gun," he told The Oregonian.



Rasmussen added: "It's an interesting tightrope that we walk. Millions of gun owners caused no trouble yesterday. It’s his mental state, not his accessibility to a gun that is the issue here."

Glenn said the county's response to calls for help about Hickey was "pretty ineffective."

"They were great yesterday," he said of the fatal shootout. "But yesterday shouldn't have arrived."

--