Politics & Government Crackdown in Yucaipa Where Suspect Shot at Deputy: Two Women Arrested Investigation of possible subsidized housing funds theft began March 1 in the 11900 block of 2nd Street, where Brian David Forrett, 52, of Riverside, allegedly shot at a deputy and fled. Forrett was found dead March 2 on Highway 38. Reply

Law enforcement officers have cracked down on people in a Yucaipa residence where a suspect allegedly shot at a deputy on March 1, arresting two women and accusing one of grand theft from a housing program, according to the Sheriff's Department.

Both women were under the influence of drugs when they were arrested March 13, and six children ages 2 to 12 were taken into protective custody, deputies in Yucaipa said in a statement distributed Wednesday March 20. Investigation of possible subsidized housing funds theft began March 1 in the 11900 block of 2nd Street, where Brian David Forrett, 52, of Riverside, allegedly shot at a deputy and fled, according to Sheriff's Department accounts.

A manhunt for Forrett and his white Buick ensued, and he was found March 2 deceased from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound in the parked Buick on Highway 38 near Angelus Oaks, deputies said. Forrett had additional gunshot wounds to his body that may have been sustained during the shooting in the 11900 block of 2nd Street in Yucaipa, sheriff's homicide investigators said.

During investigation of the March 1 incident, "deputies discovered evidence of possible fraudulent activity related to government subsidized housing requirements," according to the Sheriff's Department. "As part of an ongoing effort by the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department to eliminate and prevent fraud being committed within programs funded by the U.S. taxpayer, a search warrant was served at the residence on Wednesday, March 13, 2013," Yucaipa Station personnel said.

The Housing Authority of the County of San Bernardino assisted and took an active role in the investigation, deputies said. "The goal is to remove violating participants or unauthorized individuals from the program in order to provide law-abiding citizens including the disabled, elderly and children, an opportunity to receive safe and affordable housing," Yucaipa Station personnel said.

As a result of the investigation, deputies arrested: Nina Jenice Rowland, 31, of Yucaipa - on suspicion of grand theft from a housing program, perjury and being under the influence of a controlled substance. Jeanette Nichole Dalchele, 34, of Yucaipa - on suspicion of being under the influence of a controlled substance. Six children belonging to Rowland and ranging in age from 2 years old to 12 years old were removed from the residence by Child Protective Services, deputies said. Rowland and Dalchele were booked at West Valley Detention Center, deputies said. Dalchele was released late March 13 and Rowland was released the morning of March 14, according to inmate records.

"The County of San Bernardino will seek court ordered restitution from the suspects for the reimbursement of tax payer funds obtained by fraud," Yucaipa Station personnel said. Anyone with more information about Rowland and Dalchele was urged to contact Deputies Danny Rice and Sherry Eversole at the Yucaipa Station, (909) 790-3105. The initial account of the deputy-involved shooting at the residence on 2nd Street was distributed March 1 as law enforcement searched for Forrett. The following is verbatim: "On Friday, March 1, 2013 at 11:19 a.m. a deputy from the Yucaipa station responded to the 11900 block of 2nd Street for an unwanted subject. The deputy arrived and made contact with a white male adult, who was immediately uncooperative. "The suspect produced a weapon and began to shoot at the deputy. The deputy took cover and returned fire. The suspect got into his vehicle and rammed the patrol car before fleeing from the scene.

"The deputy attempted to locate the suspect but was unsuccessful. The suspect has been identified as Brian David Forrett, 52 years old, from the City of Riverside. "Forrett was driving a White Buick, unknown model, CA license number 6SHF401. Forrett is considered armed and dangerous and anyone with information regarding his whereabouts should call 911. The deputy was not injured by the gunfire. "Anyone with information regarding this investigation is encouraged to contact Detective Mike Flores or Sergeant Rick Bessinger at (909)387-3589. Callers wishing to remain anonymous are urged to call the We-tip Hotline at 1-800-78-CRIME (27463) or you may leave information on the We-Tip Hotline at www.wetip.com." According to law enforcement officials, Forrett was the second suspect to kill himself near Angelus Oaks in the San Bernardino Mountains in less than a month. Two and a half weeks earlier, ex-LAPD cop and multimurder suspect Christopher Dorner died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head in a burned-out cabin in Seven Oaks, off Highway 38 and east of Angelus Oaks on Feb. 12.