EL PASO, Texas (WWJ/AP) - A man wanted on aggravated robbery charges in Michigan has been killed after fleeing and shooting at police officers and a federal agent in El Paso, Texas.

Michigan State Police identified the man as 47-year-old Daniel John Myers of Charlotte, Mich.

Myers was first wanted in Michigan as a parole absconder. Troopers received a tip on Jan. 17 that Myers was staying at an apartment in Sanilac County, but when police attempted to initiate contact with Myers, he fled in a stolen vehicle, which was later found stuck in a muddy swamp.

Following their unsuccessful attempt to arrest Myers, troopers were informed that he was also wanted in Barry County in connection with the armed robbery of a 91-year-old woman that occurred on Jan. 29.

Investigators kept on their search for Myers, which led to troopers contacting him via telephone on Feb. 28. Myers reportedly told police he refused to turn himself in because he didn't want to return to prison. Investigators received information that Myers was in the El Paso region and made contact with officers there in attempt to bring him into custody.

Hours later, officers in Texas located Myers. Officers say they tried to stop him around 3 a.m. Friday, but he fled in a stolen vehicle until he stopped in a desert area. The three officers and a Border Patrol agent who were nearby pursued Myers on foot.

Police say the officers found Myers hiding behind a garage type building, when he jumped out and began shooting at the four officers. They returned fire, killing him. No officers were injured.

The incident is being investigated internally by the El Paso Police Department, as well as by Texas Rangers, the Border Patrol and the FBI.

According to the Michigan Department of Corrections, Myers has a lengthy criminal history that dates back to 1985.

TM and © Copyright 2013 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2013 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.