Officers shot and killed a man who burst from a bedroom and opened fire on them in West Kelso on Saturday morning, authorities said. A Kelso officer was wounded in the left leg during the exchange of gunfire and was treated and discharged from the hospital in the afternoon.

Police did not name the suspect, but his family identified him as Jesse Ryan McMillan, a 26-year-old former Kelso High School football player.

The suspect was involved in a car crash in the 200 block of Northwest Eighth Avenue around 10 a.m. He fled and hid in a home at 415 Northwest Fifth Avenue, police said in interviews and a written statement released Saturday afternoon.

Police learned that the driver had a felony warrant and called officers from Longview, Kelso and the Cowlitz County Sheriff’s Office to the home, authorities said.

Kelso Police Chief Andrew Hamilton said the suspect hid in a back bedroom and refused to come out. Then, at around 10:45 a.m., he emerged from the bedroom shooting a handgun, authorities said. A Kelso officer and a Cowlitz County sheriff’s deputy, who were both standing at the home’s open front door, returned fire and killed the man, who was still inside the house, Hamilton said.

Authorities declined to identify the wounded officer, who was taken to PeaceHealth St. John Medical Center. The sheriff’s deputy involved in the shooting also was not identified Saturday.

Kelso Police Captain Darr Kirk said it’s unclear how many shots were fired. The Clark County Major Crimes Unit is investigating the incident. It is standard procedure to tap an outside agency to investigate police shootings. Police declined to disclose any other details about the shooting.

Kayla Fittro, 25, who said she is a longtime friend of McMillan, said McMillan hit a woman’s car near the Big Lots store in West Kelso. McMillan then ditched the car he had been driving and ran to his mother’s Fifth Avenue home.

McMillan’s wife, Kala McMillan, 26, said she spoke with her husband on the phone and was on her way back from work at an adult care center north of Castle Rock when the shooting happened. Kala McMillan said she called police and told them, “I can get him out if you just let me get there.”

A short time later, she said, “I got a phone call that they had shot him 12 times and he’s dead.”

“I was sure I could get him out,” she said.

In November, the Longview Police Street Crimes Unit detectives said they caught McMillan with 15 individual, prepackaged baggies of heroin as well as synthetic drugs and marijuana. The detectives later served a search warrant on McMillan’s Sunset Way apartment, where they reported finding more heroin, drug paraphernalia, three pistols and numerous rounds of ammunition. The status of the case was unknown Saturday.

McMillan was sentenced to more than six years in prison in 2009 for snatching a purse out of a woman’s car in the Kelso Safeway parking lot.

Asked why her husband would hide from police, Kala McMillan said, “He has a DOC (Department of Corrections) warrant and he’s not stable on his medication.” She said her husband was recently released from jail, where he had not been allowed to take his medication.

Jail staff said McMillan had recently been held on a DOC warrant and was released Feb. 20. Corrections Director Marin Fox Hight declined to comment Saturday, saying she was not familiar with McMillan’s medical situation.

Kala McMillan and her husband’s family and friends stared grim-faced from behind a line of yellow police tape Saturday afternoon. Some said McMillan struggled with drugs and mental illness, but said they couldn’t believe he had been armed when he was shot.

“Yes, he’s been in a lot of trouble, but people are people,” said Marlys Ross, 59, of Kelso, who is Jesse McMillan’s mother in-law.

Editor's note: An early version of this article included a map with an incorrect address.