A man fatally shot by police after officers said he pointed a gun at them after a high-speed chase from Daly City to San Francisco has been identified as Aaron Sawyer, 23, a San Francisco Medical Examiner’s office spokesman said Monday.

It was one of the few new details that emerged Monday from a spate of deadly officer-involved shootings throughout the Bay Area over the weekend, as officials said they were still investigating the incidents and had yet to release the identities of many of those killed.

Sawyer, whose address was not known by the coroner’s office, was one of four people killed by police in a 27-hour period. The other incidents took place in Hayward, Union City and San Jose — and came just days after two Santa Cruz police officers were ambushed and fatally shot by a man they were attempting to question.

“These things take time,” said Hayward police Sgt. Eric Krimm, who said an autopsy had not yet been performed on the Hayward victim to confirm his identity.

Autopsies on the Hayward and Union City suspects were expected to take place early this week, a spokesman for the Alameda County Coroner said. An autopsy was completed Monday on the suspect killed in San Jose, but the cause of death was not being released, a Santa Clara County Medical Examiner-Coroner’s Office spokeswoman said.

The Daly City incident began about 12:30 a.m. Saturday, when Daly City police spotted a stolen car and chased it into San Francisco. Daly City police ended the chase on Highway 280 at southbound Highway 101, but San Francisco police soon saw the car on San Bruno Avenue.

The driver, later identified as Sawyer, brandished a gun at officers during the pursuit, police said. The driver, allegedly still armed with a handgun, and a passenger jumped out of the car while it was still moving at Hester Avenue and Bayshore Boulevard.

As Daly City and San Francisco police approached the driver, he raised his gun, police said, and a Daly City officer shot him in the torso. The suspect later died.

The passenger in the car, a 20-year-old man, surrendered to police without incident. No one else was reported injured.

Police have not identified the passenger and as of Monday he had not been charged, said San Francisco police Sgt. Michael Andraychak.

Later that day, about 2:35 p.m., a San Jose officer tried to pull over a car on Highway 85 he thought was suspicious. Instead of stopping during the run-in, the suspect purportedly rammed his car into the officer’s cruiser, sparking a high-speed chase that ended when police boxed him in at Blossom and Calero avenues.

Two officers fatally shot the suspect when he made “a threatening motion,” police said.

Then on Sunday, about 3:20 a.m., a 19-year-old man riding in the passenger seat of a Honda was killed when a Hayward officer opened fire on the car after it reportedly slammed into his cruiser during a traffic stop at Fletcher Lane and Watkins Street, said Krimm. The bullets hit the passenger. During a pursuit, the car crashed at D Street and Foothill Boulevard, so police are looking into whether the wreck played a role in the man’s death.

The man driving the Honda, identified by police as Arthur Pakman, 23, of Oakley, was arrested on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon. He is set to be arraigned Tuesday at the Hayward Hall of Justice.

About five hours earlier, two Union City police shot a man who allegedly pulled a gun from the waistband of his pants and pointed it at them. Police said the officer tried to pull over the suspect about 10 p.m. on Dyer Street south of Meteor Drive.

The suspect allegedly ran from police, ignored their commands and then pulled the pistol. A loaded gun was found at the scene, police said.

The suspect was transported to a hospital by ambulance and died a short time later.

The deadly confrontations came just days after two officers were shot and killed in Santa Cruz in a surprise attack by a sexual assault suspect they were attempting to question. That suspect, former Berkeley resident Jeremy Goulet, 35, was killed by officers after a search.

Six officers have been killed in the line of duty in California since the beginning of the year, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page.

Contact Natalie Neysa Alund at 510-293-2469. Follow her at Twitter.com/nataliealund.