The Albuquerque police chief said his officers had no choice but to shoot Tuesday night when Parrish Clayton Dennison pointed his gun at them, but a witness told Action 7 News that’s not the case.Albuquerque Police Department Chief Ray Schultz said the department’s helicopter used infrared imaging to find Dennison. On Tuesday night, Dennison prompted a lockdown of the Sheraton Hotel and nearby businesses and residences.Action 7 News found a man who said Dennison ran past him in the alley as police chased him. He asked to remain anonymous because he witnessed the shooting.“He ran. As he was running, he went to kick through a window, bounced and that's when they lit him up. He never once turned and pointed a gun at them,” said the witness.The man said it happened in a split second.“He never once pointed the gun at them, nothing… He just hit that window and just bounced back and then boom, boom, boom," said the witness.But Schultz said Dennison had already pointed his gun at an officer earlier in the evening and moments after trying to break through the window of a business.Officers hit Dennison three or four times in the chest, and he later died.The three officers involved are all veterans with over 10 years of experience on the force. They are on paid leave, which is standard until the officer-involved shooting investigation is over.

The Albuquerque police chief said his officers had no choice but to shoot Tuesday night when Parrish Clayton Dennison pointed his gun at them, but a witness told Action 7 News that’s not the case.

Albuquerque Police Department Chief Ray Schultz said the department’s helicopter used infrared imaging to find Dennison. On Tuesday night, Dennison prompted a lockdown of the Sheraton Hotel and nearby businesses and residences.



Advertisement

Action 7 News found a man who said Dennison ran past him in the alley as police chased him. He asked to remain anonymous because he witnessed the shooting.



“He ran. As he was running, he went to kick through a window, bounced and that's when they lit him up. He never once turned and pointed a gun at them,” said the witness.



The man said it happened in a split second.



“He never once pointed the gun at them, nothing… He just hit that window and just bounced back and then boom, boom, boom," said the witness.



But Schultz said Dennison had already pointed his gun at an officer earlier in the evening and moments after trying to break through the window of a business.



Officers hit Dennison three or four times in the chest, and he later died.



The three officers involved are all veterans with over 10 years of experience on the force. They are on paid leave, which is standard until the officer-involved shooting investigation is over.