The mother of a man killed by Portland police in a shootout atop a Northeast Portland parking garage has filed a notice of intent to sue the city for $100 million.

Antoinette Cisneros of Idaho Falls, Idaho, alleges that police used excessive force in the March 4 fatal shooting of her son Santiago A. Cisneros III, 32.

The mother also accuses the city of failing to properly train the officers involved and contends they violated her son's constitutional rights.

Antoinette Cisneros noted in the tort claim received by the city Sept. 3, that her son was "perhaps even intentionally killed."

She's seeking the multimillion-dollar figure to cover her pain and suffering and punitive damages, the notice says.

More

Shortly after the shooting, Portland Police Chief Mike Reese praised the officers for keeping the "presence of mind" and reacting instinctively to take cover, while staying mindful of their backdrop when shooting and avoiding firing at each other.

Officers Michele Boer and Bradley J. Kula had cleared a welfare check and met in their patrol cars on the top of the Lloyd District garage at Northeast Seventh Avenue and Lloyd Boulevard for some down time during their March 4 night shift.

But within minutes, they testified to a grand jury, an armed man with a 12-gauge Benelli Nova pump action shotgun surprised them in an unprovoked ambush, forcing the officers to scramble for cover to save their lives.

Cisneros seemed to be "hunting for Michele," Kula told grand jurors.

Boer crawled on her hands and knees beside her patrol car, while Kula lay on his stomach behind his car and fired back in what both described as an instant gun battle that lasted no longer than 45 seconds.

In an audiotape of Boer's first radio call to dispatch, she yelled, "We need cars at 7th and Lloyd. Somebody is shooting at us!"

The officers fatally shot Cisneros, a U.S. Army veteran who most recently worked as a legal intern in Seattle and suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. He sustained nine gunshot wounds. They mostly struck his legs, and one hit under his chin, perforating his jugular vein. He was pronounced dead less than an hour after the shootout at 11:20 p.m.

Santiago A. Cisneros III

Cisneros' mother had been on the phone with her son that night and heard the gunshots.

A friend of Antoinette Cisneros called 911 later that night, saying the mother was desperate for more information.

The friend, Janet Putnam, told dispatch that Santiago Cisneros had told his mother: "Police were coming and they were taking him to a high place. Then he said, 'I love you mom, and then she heard gunshots and people shouting. He has post traumatic stress disorder. He's been off his medication and wasn't making sense."

The Multnomah County grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing by police.

Antoinette Cisneros filed the claim herself. No attorney is named.

--Maxine Bernstein