UPDATED at 10:15 a.m. with identities of suspect and victim.

ST. LOUIS • A St. Louis mother was found dead Tuesday afternoon on the porch of a neighbor’s Dutchtown home after she was apparently shot by her boyfriend, police said.

The suspected gunman’s car was later spotted by police on the other side of the city, according to St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson. They pursued him onto a dead-end street, and fatally shot him when he pointed a gun out of the car at officers, he said.

Nichole Haynes, 32, was found fatally injured about 1:30 p.m. after neighbors in the 4600 block of Tennessee Avenue heard two shots. Dotson said her boyfriend, Terence Anderson, 37, had shot Haynes and her 15-year-old daughter inside their home. Haynes then ran to a neighbor’s house for help. Police said Anderson followed her there and shot her again on the porch, police said.

Haynes was shot in the head and legs and died at the scene, authorities said. The teen is expected to survive gunshot wounds to the arm and leg.

A police SWAT team surrounded Haynes home believing the attacker might be inside, but witnesses said they saw Anderson jump in a car and drive off after the shooting.

Authorities spotted the blue Buick with Illinois plates on the north end of the city, Dotson said. Police used spike strips to try to stop the car, then pursued the car as it turned onto the 4100 block of Turner Avenue in the city’s O’Fallon neighborhood.

That street is blocked at the end with large planters, and Anderson was forced to stop his car. Anderson began backing up and pointed a gun out of the back window at officers, Dotson said. Officers got out of their vehicles and stood behind nearby cars to protect themselves, Dotson said. Fearing the man would fire at them, two officers fired, killing Anderson.

The officers, both 30 and with four years on the force, were plainclothes officers but were wearing police jackets at the time, Dotson said.

Officers found Anderson's handgun. It was unclear if he had fired his weapon.

Authorities said Haynes had another daughter, 11, who was at school at the time of the shooting. Younger twins, whose father was the suspected killer, were at a day care, Dotson said. Officers were sent to each location and the children were found safe.

Homicide detectives were investigating what led to the killing of the woman, Dotson said.

“Really we get back to the root cause of the availability of guns and the use of guns in society,” Dotson said.

A man with the same name who identified himself as the suspect's uncle, Terence Anderson, 57, of Florissant, was at the scene where his nephew was shot Tuesday. He indicated the incident stemmed from domestic issues.

"I don't know why he didn't leave her," he said. "He should have left her rather than let it drive him to this point."

View St. Louis mother killed in a larger map