A Bronx jury began deliberations yesterday in the fate of a veteran cop who testified in his own defense that he did not kill his female roommate. Officer Clayton Bullock, 40, is charged with second-degree murder in the death of 45-year-old Donna Towe, who shared his apartment with her boyfriend, Charles Powell, a parolee and longtime friend of the officer. Authorities charged that Bullock, a 17-year veteran of the force, strangled Towe on Oct. 8, 2001, inside the Mosholu Parkway apartment. Prosecutors charged that Bullock strangled Towe when she spurned his romantic advances, but Bullock's attorney, Richard Murray, argued there was simply no evidence to back up that claim. Bullock was held in jail for one year in connection with the killing, but he was released last October after a defense expert found evidence that a city medical examiner botched Towe's autopsy. During his summation to the jury, Murray said that Bullock had an amicable relationship with Towe and had no motive to kill her, while suggesting that Powell may have had one. "There is no evidence that Clayton Bullock killed Donna Towe," Murray said. "Days before Donna died, Charles Powell beat her, and the night before she died, he spent the night with another woman. Powell "wasn't truthful that night and he wasn't truthful when he testified," he continued. "Charles Powell should be on trial for the death of Donna Towe, but he was given immunity by the DA's office in exchange for his testimony.

" According to court papers, Towe's mother and adult daughter told investigators that Towe "was beaten up severely by Charles Powell" a day or two before her death. Initially, Powell denied any physical mistreatment of Towe, saying that she had fallen and hit her head. But nine months later, he recanted that story. Arguing Bullock's guilt in his own summation, prosecutor David Birnbaum said "Charles Powell is not on trial today. This case is about the life and death of Donna Towe.

Advertisement

" Birnbaum played a recording of Bullock's call to 911 for help on which Bullock showed no emotion. Birnbaum said the evidence suggests that the cop was calm on the tape because he knew Towe was already dead.