Parents of 32-year-old Jason Glover question what happened when their son was shot and killed during a confrontation with Sheriff's deputies.

Advertisement Family speaks out on shooting of war veteran Relatives intend to launch own investigation Share Copy Link Copy

Family and friends are speaking out after an Abita Springs Army veteran was shot and killed during a confrontation with a St. Tammany Parish sheriff's deputy Friday.Benjamin Yazbeck is a childhood friend of Operation Iraqi Freedom Army veteran Jason Glover."He was immensely loyal. He was always there for everyone he knew," Yazbeck said through his tears.Glover survived an improvised explosive device explosion in Iraq in 2003, but the Purple Heart veteran died Saturday morning after being shot outside his home.Officials said deputies were responding to a call from Glover's girlfriend, saying he was threatening to kill her and was armed with a handgun. When deputies arrived, they reportedly saw Glover sitting in his truck outside the home.Deputies said when he exited the vehicle, they saw a gun in his hand. Deputies said their repeated calls to Glover to drop his weapon were ignored, and then Glover raised the gun and pointed it at a deputy.That's when authorities said the deputy shot at Glover and hit him twice.A spokesman for the sheriff's office said the responding deputies' car was not equipped with a camera, so there is no video evidence of the encounter.Glover's parents said their son had been in an argument with his girlfriend Friday night, but they said she wasn't at Glover's home at the time of the shooting."Why didn't they try and talk, and what lead to the police being there and her not being even at the house," Yazbeck said.Family members said Glover had respect for law enforcement and believe the sheriff is attempting to portray their son as a man who struggled mentally after returning from war 10 years ago."This young man has struggled greatly to adjust and to recover from his experience. Sadly, he and his family were ultimately unable to find the help he truly needed," said Sheriff Jack Strain."I don't think they knew Jason. Anybody that says that, I don't think they knew him," Yazbeck said. "Jason was the same person he always was."Shawn Cronan, a Desert Storm veteran and NOLA Patriots founder, said the effects of war can show up in any number of ways at any point in a veterans life."Going into a war like that and seeing the amount of violence that our U.S. soldiers are seeing, it affects you. It really does even if you don't have the post-traumatic stress disorder label affixed," Cronan said.The St. Tammany Parish Sheriff's Office said the shooting is under criminal and internal investigation. The family said they intend to launch their own investigation.