One man is in critical condition after an arrest attempt led to an officer-involved shooting Friday night at an Omaha Walgreens.Omaha police said a major meth bust led to the shooting. Police Chief Todd Schmaderer said undercover officers were serving a search warrant at 6532 Wirt St.Police arrested Rachel Galvan, Alexander Studer, Jesus Gomez, Danielle Alberto, Armando Gomez and Marcial Corona for criminal conspiracy at the address.Police found two other suspects, Jennifer Lovings and Jason Welch at the Walgreens at 51st and Center streets. Schmaderer said Lovings was driving and Welch was a passenger in a vehicle. When officers went to arrest them, Lovings rammed into unmarked police cruisers. Welch reached down into the console, and police believed he was reaching for a gun.An officer fired three shots at the suspect, hitting Welch through the car window.They said Lovings drove off, but they located the car at 48th and W. Lovings was not in the car.Welch was taken to the University of Nebraska Medical Center in extremely critical condition.Police continue to search for Lovings, but believe she’s in the area. Schmaderer said the arrests put a significant dent in the Omaha meth market.

One man is in critical condition after an arrest attempt led to an officer-involved shooting Friday night at an Omaha Walgreens.

Advertisement Related Content Woman surrenders in connection with officer-involved shooting

Omaha police said a major meth bust led to the shooting. Police Chief Todd Schmaderer said undercover officers were serving a search warrant at 6532 Wirt St.

Police arrested Rachel Galvan, Alexander Studer, Jesus Gomez, Danielle Alberto, Armando Gomez and Marcial Corona for criminal conspiracy at the address.



Police found two other suspects, Jennifer Lovings and Jason Welch at the Walgreens at 51st and Center streets. Schmaderer said Lovings was driving and Welch was a passenger in a vehicle. When officers went to arrest them, Lovings rammed into unmarked police cruisers. Welch reached down into the console, and police believed he was reaching for a gun.

An officer fired three shots at the suspect, hitting Welch through the car window.

They said Lovings drove off, but they located the car at 48th and W. Lovings was not in the car.

Welch was taken to the University of Nebraska Medical Center in extremely critical condition.

Police continue to search for Lovings, but believe she’s in the area. Schmaderer said the arrests put a significant dent in the Omaha meth market.