Authorities have identified the driver involved in a car crash early Sunday.Earlier, two people believed to be involved in a theft from a Pleasant Hill convenience store were injured in the crash after leading authorities on a car chase early Sunday, according to the Polk County Sheriff's Office.Investigators said the incident began when a clerk at the Kum & Go at NE 60th Street and University Avenue in Pleasant Hill reported a theft of merchandise about 1:30 a.m. Sunday.The clerk provided officers with a license plate number and a description of the car the thieves fled in, and an officer was able to catch up with the car about two minutes later, police said.The officer attempted to pull over the white Buick Skylark at NE 56th Street and E. Oakwood Drive when the driver sped away.Police said the vehicle crashed and flipped onto its side after it struck a power pole in the 4700 block of E. Oakwood Drive.Officials with the Polk County Sheriff’s Office identified the Buick’s driver as Melissa Sue Toillion, 29. She was pronounced dead at the scene.The passenger in the car was identified as Justin Formaro, 22, of Des Moines, police said.Formaro was seriously injured and taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.At least one utility pole damaged in the incident required immediate repair by MidAmerican Energy.The incident was under investigation.

Authorities have identified the driver involved in a car crash early Sunday.

Advertisement

Earlier, two people believed to be involved in a theft from a Pleasant Hill convenience store were injured in the crash after leading authorities on a car chase early Sunday, according to the Polk County Sheriff's Office.

Investigators said the incident began when a clerk at the Kum & Go at NE 60th Street and University Avenue in Pleasant Hill reported a theft of merchandise about 1:30 a.m. Sunday.

The clerk provided officers with a license plate number and a description of the car the thieves fled in, and an officer was able to catch up with the car about two minutes later, police said.

The officer attempted to pull over the white Buick Skylark at NE 56th Street and E. Oakwood Drive when the driver sped away.

Police said the vehicle crashed and flipped onto its side after it struck a power pole in the 4700 block of E. Oakwood Drive.

Officials with the Polk County Sheriff’s Office identified the Buick’s driver as Melissa Sue Toillion, 29. She was pronounced dead at the scene.

The passenger in the car was identified as Justin Formaro, 22, of Des Moines, police said.

Formaro was seriously injured and taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.

At least one utility pole damaged in the incident required immediate repair by MidAmerican Energy.

The incident was under investigation.