The Boca Raton police officer who fatally shot a 20-year-old college student has been cleared of any wrongdoing.

Brian Pare used ‘justifiable use of force’ when he fired four shots at Adam Donohue on March 8, say documents released Friday by the Palm Beach State Attorney’s Office.

Two of the bullets from Pare’s .40-caliber pistol hit Donohue in the chest during the 8:45 p.m. confrontation at Military Trail and Spanish River Boulevard, according to an investigative review and summary of the shooting.

The findings of the investigation were presented to a grand jury in the spring, which found the shooting was justifiable, according to a memo sent by Chief Assistant State Attorney Brian Fernandes to Boca Raton Police Chief Dan Alexander on Oct. 4.

In the days after Donohue’s death, friends and family would react with shock and anger to the seemingly out-of-character show of aggression, describing him as a gentle giant who did not court trouble.

But soon more details would emerge about what precipitated the Florida Atlantic University student’s sudden demise, with unverified reports emerging that Donohue may have been experimenting with drugs.

The investigative review, citing the medical examiner who conducted the autopsy on Donohue, says that the only indication of an illegal substance found in Donohue’s bloodstream was marijuana metabolites.

One of Donohue’s friends, however, told investigators that Donohue had obtained 10 hits of LSD and ingested three that afternoon.

As the night wore on, Donohue became “anxious and erratic” while at a friend’s apartment. He then disappeared.

Investigators found pieces of 251-NBOME, a hallucinogen similar to LSD, in Donohue’s pants pocket, the documents said. But there was none found in his bloodstream. There was also no alcohol.

But something had clearly gone wrong. The report cites witnesses who saw what happened in the moments leading up to the fatal encounter.

After Donohue put his hands on a woman walking in on Northwest 20th Street and said he wanted to “pass away,” he opened the driver’s door of a Comcast truck stopped at a red light and tried to unsuccessfully pull out the driver.

He would then jump on to the hood of taxi. When the taxi driver got out of the car, Donohue punched him in the face, got in the cab and drove off. It was 8:43 p.m.

By 8:47 p.m., “everything was over,” the report stated.

In those four minutes, police would respond and Donohue would charge with his fists clenched at Pare, who fired his weapon, the report said. Donohue fell and got up, and was Tasered twice by Officer Christopher Bradley. Donohue ran away, but the officers caught up to him. Bradley Tasered him again.

“You got me,” Donohue was heard saying. “I’m going to die.”

Within 30 minutes, his life would be over.

bsclarkson@tribune.com, 561-243-6609 or Twitter @brettclarkson_