A member of the Oakland County Narcotics Enforcement Team, or NET, was involved in a fatal shooting Tuesday afternoon, Oakland County officials report. The incident occurred at 3:45 p.m. at Cornerstone Village Condominium Complex on Greenfield Road north of Nine Mile Road while the narcotics team was conducting an undercover operation, said Southfield Lt. Nick Loussia.

Watch a report on the fatal shooting on today’s News at Noon.

Oakland County Undersheriff Mike McCabe says an officer assigned to the team shot and killed a suspect — a 17-year-old Southfield teen — during the undercover drug investigation.

“During the investigation a suspect pulled a weapon on one of the undercover NET officers and placed the weapon to the officers head in an attempt to rob him,” said McCabe late Tuesday in a prepared statement. “The officer pulled his gun and was able to fire shots that struck the suspect.”

It was not immediately clear which police department the officer worked for. The Oakland County NET is a multi-jurisdictional drug task force that consists of Sheriff’s deputies and officers from 13 other Oakland County police departments, along with representatives from the DEA.

The suspect was taken to a nearby hospital for his wounds, but was later pronounced dead. No officers were injured in the apparent fire fight, said Loussia.

McCabe reports that the county’s Special Investigations Unit continues to examine Tuesday’s incident.

SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) — Authorities have released the name of a 17-year-old boy who they say was fatally shot by undercover police officer after putting gun to the officer’s head during a drug investigation. MLive.com and the Detroit Free Press report the teen is identified as 17-year-old Austin Thomas. The Oakland County sheriff’s department says a narcotics enforcement team was carrying out an undercover investigation Tuesday afternoon at the Cornerstone Village Condominium Complex in Southfield. The department says the Southfield teen pulled the gun out and tried to rob one of the undercover officers before the officer pulled his own gun and shot the teen multiple times. The Madison Heights police officer wasn’t hurt and has been placed on administrative leave. The shooting is under investigation.