Matthew Umstead

matthewu@herald-mail.com

MARTINSBURG, W.Va. — A Berkeley County grand jury Wednesday declined to indict Martinsburg Police Department officers involved in the March shooting of a Virginia man.

Wayne Arnold Jones, 50, of Stephens City, Va., was pronounced dead at the scene in the 100 block of Queen Street in downtown Martinsburg after being shot multiple times March 13 during an altercation with police.

Berkeley County Prosecuting Attorney Pamela Games-Neely said Wednesday that the grand jury failed to indict after being presented with the findings of a shooting investigation that was done by the West Virginia State Police branch of the Eastern Panhandle Drug & Violent Crime Task Force.

An outside expert on training of law enforcement officers also reviewed the case, Games-Neely said.

The grand jury needed four hours to reach its decision after hearing witnesses in the case, Games-Neely said.

Games-Neely declined to name the five officers who were placed on administrative leave following the shooting, saying that personnel information would have to come from Martinsburg Police Chief Kevin Miller.

Miller did not return messages requesting comment Wednesday.

An attorney who is representing family members of Jones in a federal lawsuit against the city confirmed Wednesday that Games-Neely had informed him of the outcome of the grand jury’s review of the case.

“I am deeply disappointed that the system didn’t work for Mr. Wayne Jones,” Sherman L. Lambert Sr. said in an interview Wednesday. “And I regret that the federal authorities will have to do what the prosecuting attorney should have done.”

When asked what the prosecuting attorney should have done, Lambert said “investigate, thoroughly investigate and move appropriately.”

Games-Neely maintained Wednesday evening that the case was thoroughly investigated.

“My job is to present facts and if (the grand jury) says no, they say no,” Games-Neely said. “The grand jury decides whether or not to proceed.”

Two brothers of Jones are demanding $200 million in compensatory and punitive damages in the fatal shooting of their sibling. A jury trial is set for Oct. 28, 2014, in U.S. District Court in Martinsburg, according to court documents.

They allege officers used unreasonable and excessive force, shooting Jones 15 to 25 times while he was on the ground.

Police had said they used projectile stun guns twice on the man and he later was shot after stabbing an officer in the torso with a knife.

The officer’s stab wound later was determined to be minor, and he did not need medical attention, police said.

The police department said officers encountered the man at about 11:45 p.m. when he was walking in the roadway.

While speaking to the man, officers asked if he had any weapons and Jones told them he had “something,” but would not say what he had, police had said.

The man then refused to place his hands on a police cruiser so the weapon could be removed and refused to follow any of the commands given by the officers and began to back away, police said.

The man became increasingly angry and did not comply with subsequent orders by the officers, who then shot him with a stun gun, police said.

The stun gun had little effect and a second stun was fired with “minimal” effect, police had said.

At that point, the man fled into a doorway entrance in the 100 block of South Queen Street, police had said.

Once at the doorway entrance, officers continued to give verbal commands to the subject, but he failed to comply, police had said.

Officers then attempted to physically restrain the man and forced him to the ground, police said.

While on the ground, the man actively fought with the officers and would not comply with verbal commands, police said.

In the course of attempting to restrain the man, he retrieved a knife and stabbed an officer in the torso.

Officers at that point backed off and ordered the man to drop the knife, which police said he did not do.

While the man was attempting to get on his feet, officers fired multiple rounds with their duty weapons at the man to neutralize the threat, police had said.

The federal lawsuit claims Jones was on medication for schizophrenia, and that police stopped him on the street for no reason. It names the city and the police department as defendants, as well as 15 unidentified “John Doe” defendants.

The police department was dismissed as a defendant in the case in August, according to court records.

The death certificate for Jones, which was attached to the lawsuit, said the deceased died from multiple gunshot wounds.

The lawsuit contends the police department has hired officers with a known propensity for excessive force, violence and misconduct, and alleges those officers were not adequately trained before the shooting or disciplined afterward.

The lawsuit claims police then formed a semicircle 3 to 4 feet from Jones, in what the victim’s family calls a firing squad formation.

Matthew Umstead is a reporter for The Herald-Mail. He can be reached via email at matthewu@herald-mail.com.