Editor's note: This story was corrected to clarify that Skyler Stewart's brother is his biological brother.

Skyler Stewart, the 20-year-old Lower Paxton Twp. man shot by police Friday, was described by a family member as "smart, articulate, very loyal, a kind, kind soul."

“Everybody liked Skyler,” said Gary Neilson, who formerly had a relationship with Stewart's mother, and said he was like a son to him. Stewart loved to skateboard, and was “very talented - an excellent writer. He wrote poetry, a lot of spiritual writings … He was just a good, good smart kid.”

He said Skyler’s death doesn’t seem real. “It’s tough…It’s still brand new. But my spirit tells me he’s at peace now.”

Skyler didn’t have the easiest life, Neilson said. Stewart couldn’t be dissuaded from dropping out of Central Dauphin High School his senior year, although he was planning to get his GED, Neilson said. He figures Stewart wanted to get a job to help out at home. And he had been in some trouble with the law - a burglary charged in 2010, and a more recent underage drinking citation - but nothing violent, Neilson said.

Intervening in an argument between his mom and a man at the home is what led to police coming to arrest him last Friday, Neilson said. Stewart was protective of his mom, “very loyal to her.”

“Skyler was trying to get him out of the house, and the guy got stabbed,” Neilson said. Skyler, his mom and younger brother all had injuries from the incident, Neilson said.

The next day, Skyler made a mistake “that unfortunately turned into a fatal situation,” Neilson said, in running from police armed with a gun.

That there was a handgun involved “was surprising to me,” Neilson said. “But when I sit back and think of the circumstances concerning his home life, he probably felt he needed it to protect himself, his brother, his mother, whatever.”

“I’m sure he was afraid. The thing is, the police never got his side of the story before they kind of stormed in,” Neilson said.

Neilson said it was unfortunate the police dog was shot, by Skyler according to police. “I’m glad the K-9 pulled through,” he said.

Harrisburg attorney Gerald Smith, who is Neilson’s step-father and considers himself Skylers' grandfather, called Skyler’s death ‘’a senseless tragedy.”

“He wasn’t a thug,” Smith said. “But he shouldn‘t have run away and he shouldn’t have had the gun.”

Smith issued a family statement, which said they believe Stewart "chose poorly in his decision to run. Immaturity and fear led to that poor judgment."

"We believe that Skyler shot the dog in an effort to fend it off of him. We also believe that he was likely dazed and confused when he failed to heed police orders. We are sympathetic to the concerns for the K9 and are glad he will recover."

District Attorney Ed Marsico said the circumstances around Stewart’s shooting is still under investigation.

In the Thursday incident, Marsico said a man had been cut with a knife, but whether shots were fired is still under investigation.

When police went Friday to arrest Stewart, Marsico said he was hiding in the duplex next door, and had a gun. He fled, and in the pursuit, Stewart shot Zeke, a Harrisburg Police Department K-9, and pointed the gun at police, which is when he was shot, Marsico said.

A donation fund to help pay Stewart's funeral expenses has been set up at Wallace Funeral Home, 106 Agnes St., Harrisburg, PA 17104.