POMONA — Flowers, candles bearing the images of Jesus Christ and Mary and hand-written messages such as “Mama loves you RIP baby girl” could be found this week at Deluxe Motel, the site where law enforcement officers shot and killed Sonia Angelita Castaneda-Montoya on Saturday.

Other messages written in black marker: “RIP $hady,” “R.I.P. Sissy S.” “F** the holice (sic)” and “Love you always. Gone but not forgotten with pops now! “

The shooting, being investigated by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, happened during a weekend when Pomona police commanders had officers working overtime in an attempt to suppress crime after the city became the scene of four homicides during the six-day period from March 6 through March 13.

As of earlier this week, there have been no statements from law enforcement to indicate the officer-involved shooting at Deluxe Motel is connected to the four killings that have already taken place in Pomona this month. What’s more, Pomona police have previously reported that while none of the crimes that took place during the six-day “spike in violence” are believed to be random acts of violence, preliminary investigations have suggested the crimes are not related.

If any single reason can explain the recent spate of violence, which included a man being shot and killed while walking with a child in a stroller, that explanation has yet to be discovered.

“Not right now. No theories that are being tossed around,” Sgt. Hector Rodriguez said.

Pomona police are not commenting on the Deluxe Motel incident as it is being investigated by the sheriff’s department.

What has been reported is that a Pomona police officer and a Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office investigator were working together as part of a multi-agency task force when they drove through the driveway of the Deluxe Motel around 9:45 p.m. Saturday night.

Investigators said they do not know why Castaneda-Montoya, 28, of Pomona, was at the hotel. However, law enforcement officers say she was armed and appeared to be threatening the task force members.

“They where driving through the driveway when they observed the female coming in their direction pointing a handgun,” said Lt. David Coleman, homicide investigator with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.

The Pomona officer and District Attorney’s investigator believed they were on the verge of being shot at and fired their weapons in response, Coleman said.

The officers fired multiple times but it was unknown on Monday how many shots struck Castaneda-Montoya.

Preliminary results of an autopsy were expected to be delivered to investigators Monday, but a full report that includes toxicology analysis results are expected to take several weeks, Coleman said. Investigators also have yet to complete interviews.

Deluxe Motel, where rates are $25 per hour or $60 overnight for two people, is in the 900 block of West Holt Avenue in one of Pomona’s rougher-looking areas.

A woman who lives at the hotel asked not to have her name printed, but said she heard the gunfire on Saturday night. She said she heard the gunshots, then a woman’s scream, followed by two more gunshots.

“I went to dial 9-1-1 and I only got to 9-1- and it was like ‘Whew, they’re fast,” she said, describing her surprise after learning that police were already at the hotel.

The woman also said she is concerned by this month’s spate of violence.

“I want to move away,” she said, adding “I just wish it would stop. All this chaos. “

Although Pomona police could not comment on the shooting itself, Rodriguez said police are satisfied with the elevated patrols and are considering a repeat operation for the coming weekend.

“We made several arrests,” he said. “I don’t have an exact number, but it was a successful operation. “

–Staff Writer Monica Rodriguez contributed to this report.