A deputy U.S. marshal who shot and killed a Waco man in March was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by a McLennan County grand jury Wednesday.

The grand jury no-billed Deputy U.S. Marshal Clayton Brown in the shooting death of Transcini Richerson, 30, in Waco.

Richerson, who authorities say was wanted on a state parole violation and a felony assault-strangulation charge, died of a shotgun wound to the head March 18, according to an autopsy report.

Officials have said the U.S. Marshals Service Lone Star Fugitive Task Force was searching for Richerson, who was described as having a lengthy criminal history and a propensity for violence, for several weeks when a tip led the group to the 2600 block of Cumberland Avenue.

Richerson, who was considered armed and dangerous, was found sitting in the driver’s seat of a parked silver Pontiac, which also was occupied by two women, according to police.

When authorities approached the car to arrest him, Richerson refused to show his hands as commanded and started reaching downward, Waco police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton has said.

Officials say Brown fired a shot through the windshield of the vehicle, striking Richerson. The deputy marshal’s actions were described by authorities as being in defense of himself and the other officers at the scene.

U.S. Marshal Robert Almonte, of San Antonio, said an investigation revealed that Richerson had no weapon with him.

“Obviously, we are very pleased with the result of the grand jury hearing resulting in my deputy being no-billed. So we are pleased with that, but it is unfortunate that there was a loss of life,” Almonte said.

“The last thing an officer wants is to take a life, but unfortunately the circumstances at the scene made it necessary to do so. It is not like we are celebrating. We are just pleased the grand jury found no wrongdoing and now our deputy can continue on with his career,” he said.

Brown was placed on administrative leave for about a week and has been assigned to desk duty, Almonte said. Now that the criminal investigation is over, an internal affairs investigation by the U.S. Marshals Service in Washington, D.C., will begin he said.

McLennan County District Attorney Abel Reyna said his office agrees with the grand jury’s decision.

“Deputy U.S. Marshal Clayton Brown’s conduct was within the confines of the law and his training. There are times when the use of deadly force by an officer is necessary to protect themselves as well as fellow officers. This was one of those instances,” Reyna said.

In other action, the grand jury indicted Aveaon Roshun Anderson, 21, in the April slaying of a Waco teen and in the wounding of another teen.

Anderson was indicted for murder in the shooting death of 17-year-old Dhaodrique Eastland, and with aggravated assault of 19-year-old Ra’Hideame Washington, who was wounded in the same shooting in the parking lot of Eddie’s Smoke Shop, 1301 W. Waco Drive.

Eastland and Washington were with a group of friends in the parking lot of the store when a man approached the group on foot, fired several shots and fled, Waco police said.

Also, the grand jury indicted David Richard Means, 19, of Harker Heights, on four counts of aggravated assault in a traffic incident after the fireworks in downtown Waco on July 4.

Means is charged with ramming a car with three people in it after an argument during a traffic jam at South Second Street and Webster Avenue.

Alex Chapa III, who was in another vehicle, got out when he saw the crash.

He was walking toward the wreck when police said Means struck Chapa with his car, knocking him onto the hood and into the roadway.