A Billings man died and a woman was injured Monday night after the car he was driving crashed as he fled from a Yellowstone County sheriff's deputy.

Yellowstone County Sheriff Mike Linder identified the man as Justin D. Hoerner, 26.

According to the Montana Highway Patrol, the deputy attempted to pull over a Pontiac Grand Prix on North Frontage Road a little after 10 p.m.

Linder said the deputy began following the Pontiac in the westbound lanes of Interstate 90 near the Johnson Lane exit.

The deputy watched the car cross the center line in the interstate and noted "minor equipment infractions," Linder said. The deputy continued to follow the Pontiac as it exited I-90 near Highway 87 and turned on to North Frontage Road.

Authorities said the driver, later identified as Hoerner, did not pull over and sped off eastbound on North Frontage.

"The guy just took off," Linder said.

The deputy gave chase and another responded to help. Soon after, Hoerner lost control of the Pontiac.

It drifted over the center line and off the north side of the road into a ditch, where it struck a culvert near Johnson Lane.

The MHP said the car then went airborne and overturned, landing on its wheels.

Hoerner was not wearing a seat belt and was thrown from the car. He was taken by ambulance to St. Vincent Healthcare and died soon after.

An autopsy revealed Hoerner died of blunt-force trauma from the crash.

Taisha Cornelius, 32, of Billings, was a passenger was taken by ambulance to Billings Clinic.

The extent of her injuries wasn't immediately available, but Linder said investigators were able to speak with her at the hospital. She was no longer listed as a patient as of 10 p.m. Tuesday.

The sheriff's office will review the incident to determine if the deputy acted properly and followed procedure.

"We'll do our review and see if anything needs to be corrected," Linder said. "It does appear that he followed proper procedures."

The involved deputies have not been placed on administrative leave, and Linder said the incident is unlikely to require a coroner's inquest.

The Montana Highway Patrol will handle the crash investigation. The initial report indicated excessive speed played a role in the crash.

It wasn't known if alcohol was a factor, according to the patrol.

Linder said it's still not clear why Hoerner fled.

When deputies ran the Pontiac's license plates, it showed that there are outstanding warrants for people listed as living at the home where the car is registered, although Linder said it wasn't clear if that played a role in the incident.

"We don't know all of the particulars yet," he said. "We have some further investigation that we're doing."