Investigators say officer justified in use of deadly force

The state attorney general has ruled that the shooting of a man by police in Walpole last month was justified.Larry Bohannon, 51, was shot and killed in Walpole after an armed robbery in Bellows Falls, Vt.According to the attorney general's report, Bohannon was wearing a dark mask when he entered the office supply store, pointed a black handgun at a clerk, demanded money and fled.Alstead police Officer Cameron Prior spotted a vehicle matching the description and began a pursuit, at one point seeing Bohannon raise his hand while holding a gun."During the pursuit, the truck at times reached speeds of 80 mph in 35- and 40-mph zones, illegally passing numerous vehicles, nearly colliding with oncoming traffic," the report said."They knew that he was a fleeing suspect, and this was behavior that was endangering the public," said Assistant Attorney General Janice Rundles.Bohannon drove into a Walpole neighborhood, and two Walpole officers rammed his truck. The vehicle overturned and landed on its passenger side."Officer Prior got out of his cruiser with his weapon drawn," the report said. "The suspect slid into the passenger side and was in a semi-standing position, reaching down for something. Officer Prior shouted repeatedly at the suspect to, 'Show me your hands,' and 'Drop the gun!'"According to the report, Bohannon didn't respond or stop. Prior then fired two or three rounds at him."In fact, this is not in the report, but the officer thought that he might've been wearing body armor at that time because the first shots did not appear to stop him, and as the officers observed, he was continuing to disregard their commands and was continuing to reach for a weapon, so the next two shots were in fact deadly shots."Investigators later discovered that Bohannon's weapon was actually a pellet gun. But the Attorney General's Office said that doesn't change the determination that the officer's actions were justified.

The state attorney general has ruled that the shooting of a man by police in Walpole last month was justified.

Larry Bohannon, 51, was shot and killed in Walpole after an armed robbery in Bellows Falls, Vt.

According to the attorney general's report, Bohannon was wearing a dark mask when he entered the office supply store, pointed a black handgun at a clerk, demanded money and fled.

Alstead police Officer Cameron Prior spotted a vehicle matching the description and began a pursuit, at one point seeing Bohannon raise his hand while holding a gun.

"During the pursuit, the truck at times reached speeds of 80 mph in 35- and 40-mph zones, illegally passing numerous vehicles, nearly colliding with oncoming traffic," the report said.

"They knew that he was a fleeing suspect, and this was behavior that was endangering the public," said Assistant Attorney General Janice Rundles.

Bohannon drove into a Walpole neighborhood, and two Walpole officers rammed his truck. The vehicle overturned and landed on its passenger side.

"Officer Prior got out of his cruiser with his weapon drawn," the report said. "The suspect slid into the passenger side and was in a semi-standing position, reaching down for something. Officer Prior shouted repeatedly at the suspect to, 'Show me your hands,' and 'Drop the gun!'"

According to the report, Bohannon didn't respond or stop. Prior then fired two or three rounds at him.

"In fact, this is not in the report, but the officer thought that he might've been wearing body armor at that time because the first shots did not appear to stop him, and as the officers observed, he was continuing to disregard their commands and was continuing to reach for a weapon, so the next two shots were in fact deadly shots."

Investigators later discovered that Bohannon's weapon was actually a pellet gun. But the Attorney General's Office said that doesn't change the determination that the officer's actions were justified.