MATTOON — Two Arkansas residents have been charged in connection with the alleged attempted burglary and shooting that occurred Tuesday night in an Arkansas town and left local homicide suspect Thomas O’Dell, 41, dead and a Bryant, Ark., police officer wounded, according to authorities.

Mattoon Police Department Chief Jeff Branson said he anticipates two additional arrest warrants will be issued for obstructing justice during the investigation into Benjamin Newton’s shooting death, of which O’Dell was accused.

Newton was shot in the face at close range while working March 18 as a bartender at Toaster’s Pub, 1408 Broadway Ave., and police say an undetermined amount of money was taken from the tavern. An arrest warrant accusing O’Dell of the killing was issued days later.

In Arkansas, Dolly Burnett, 38, of Alexander, Ark., and Lonnie Ridling, 24, of Benton, Ark., were arrested late Wednesday night after a followup probe by authorities looking into the alleged attempted burglary Tuesday at Fred’s Super Dollar store in Bryant.

During the investigation, the Arkansas State Police and the Bryant Police Department learned about Burnett’s and Ridling’s alleged involvement related to the shooting incident that took place just outside Fred’s, according to a Bryant police press release.

Burnett and Ridling appeared in court Friday, where they were both ordered held without bond due to pending charges of capital murder resulting from how they were linked to the shooting in which O’Dell was fatally wounded, Bryant police Sgt. Todd Crowson said by phone Friday afternoon. The local prosecutor is looking at the case and should make a decision within several days, he said.

Burnett and Ridling met O’Dell several days ago after O’Dell’s vehicle ran out of gas on Interstate 30 on a rainy night, Crowson said. The pair was staying at a temporary-stay apartment complex and quickly struck up a friendship with O’Dell, Crowson said.

Burnett and Ridling gave O’Dell money for gasoline and allegedly began plotting the burglary at the Fred’s store. While driving the stolen 2012 F-250 truck that O’Dell allegedly took from Springfield, Mo., they dropped O’Dell off at the store and left.

“The deal was for him to pick up pills or anything he could find and split the money,” Crowson said.

An Arkansas State Police news release said Bryant police responded to a burglar alarm at Fred’s about 11 p.m. Tuesday. A suspect was found inside a fenced-in outdoor area of the dollar store and, after he exchanged gunfire with police and was fatally wounded, was identified as O’Dell based on identification materials found at the scene, according to online news reports.

The shooting commenced after police told O’Dell “multiple times” to drop his gun, Branson said Wednesday. When O’Dell began to shoot at officers, they returned fire, according to authorities.

Bryant police Officer Scott Johnson was wounded during the gunfire but was treated at a hospital and released, according to Arkansas news reports. Johnson reportedly was shot in the hand and shoulder.

The Associated Press reported that O’Dell was mortally wounded at the scene of the shooting at Fred’s and pronounced dead at Saline Memorial Hospital.

The incident marked the second publicly confirmed out-of-state sighting of O’Dell since Newton’s death, as authorities said he was seen last week in Missouri where he reportedly stole two vehicles, one at gunpoint. O’Dell is also thought to have left Mattoon in a stolen vehicle, police said.

Burnett and Ridling were charged with theft of property, commercial burglary and obstruction of government operations. Burnett was also charged with theft by receiving.

Locally, Branson said Mattoon detectives are tying up loose ends with the case of Newton’s killing and O’Dell’s flight and should submit the final file to the state’s attorney’s office in about a month for a last review.

On Wednesday, Branson said police believe robbery was O’Dell’s only motive in Newton’s shooting. He said investigating officers “talked with multiple individuals” who spoke with O’Dell, which led to his becoming a suspect.

In Coles County, O’Dell was charged with first-degree murder and armed robbery and could have received life in prison if convicted. Bond had been set for him at $5 million.

Contact Zyskowski at kzyskowski@jg-tc.com or 217-238-6869.