Back in April, we told you about the Hot Sulphur Springs shooting death of Joshua Stevens at the hands of a prominent couple -- a lieutenant with the Grand County Sheriff's Office and a prosecutor for the 14th Judicial District.

Now, Jefferson County DA Pete Weir has ruled that the pair's actions were justified -- and a document announcing his decision provides much more information about the events that led to Stevens's death. Photos, video and details below.

The original releases about the killing, which took place on the night of April 1, made it seem like a home invasion during which the intruder had been shot, presumably inside the house, by one of the residents.

But the facts laid out by Weir are considerably more complicated than that. Stevens is indeed said to have gotten into the residence shared by the couple, now officially identified as Grand County Sheriff's Lieutenant John Stein and Chief Deputy District Attorney Heather Stein. However, he died outside after being shot at least once by each of the Steins.

This fine small hotel is close and waiting for a new innkeeper to take good care of it and the delightful guests that stay here. The Historic Riverside Hotel, located on the banks of the Colorado River in Hot Sulphur Springs, CO, was built in 1903 to meet the lodging demands of travelers who arrived daily at the newly constructed train depot. These travelers were after the same thing in 1903 as they are today -- a relaxing soak in the adjacent hot springs, a good meal and a restful nights' sleep. The Historic Riverside -- renovated in 2008 but still possessing its authentic turn of the century charm -- provides its guests with 14 elegantly appointed, uniquely individual guest rooms, The River Room Restaurant, one of Grand County's finest and The Jayhawk Bar, an authentic 1895 Brunswick Bar.

Theirs is not the typical house. Rather, it's the former Riverside hotel, which is described like so on the Historic Hotels of the Rockies website The reference to the need of an innkeeper is a bit out of date. The Steins purchased the operation and converted it into a home they share with their four children -- three of whom were present when Stevens, a man with previous convictions for fraud and evading police in Michigan (his home state) and Florida, came barging in.

What happened?

Continue for more about the death of Joshua Stevens, including photos, video and the DA's report.