Staff Writer

Telegram & Gazette

BOSTON — A Boston man has been convicted of second-degree murder for the killing of his ex-girlfriend 25 years ago.

Fifty-year-old Michael Coker was found guilty Wednesday and sentenced to life in prison with possibility of parole after 15 years.

Prosecutors said Coker strangled 20-year-old Janet Phinney in West Roxbury in March 1988 because he was angry she wanted to break up with him. Her remains were discovered in a wooded area behind her home three days later.

Coker had been a suspect, but wasn't charged until 2011 after updated forensic testing was done.

Coker's lawyer has questioned evidence in the case.

Before Coker's sentencing, Robert Phinney said his family has been deeply affected by the loss of his youngest sister. He said, “a piece of us all died that day and we will never be the same.”

CHICOPEE — State police say a 20-year-old Springfield man fleeing a traffic stop has died after rolling his SUV on an Interstate 391 ramp in Chicopee.

Police say a trooper on routine patrol was passed by a speeding SUV on I-391 south just after midnight Wednesday.

The trooper turned on his flashing lights and pulled over the SUV at the bottom of a ramp. As the trooper approached, the driver took off, and got on I-391 north.

The trooper followed, saw a plume of smoke, and saw the SUV rolled over at the bottom of a ramp. The driver, Jackson Rosario, had been ejected. He was declared dead at a hospital at about 2 a.m.

Police found a replica handgun and a large amount of cash in the vehicle.

CAMBRIDGE — State police say a 67-year-old man struck by a vehicle while trying to cross a Cambridge street has died.

Police said Conrado Medina of East Boston was struck as he tried to cross Land Boulevard just after 5 a.m. Wednesday in front of the Royal Sonesta Hotel.

Medina was taken to Massachusetts General Hospital where he was pronounced dead.

The driver of the car, described only as a 40-year-old Cambridge man, remained at the scene.

The crash remains under investigation to determine whether charges are warranted.

ST. JOHN PLANTATION, Maine — Maine game wardens say a Massachusetts man survived being trapped under an overturned snowmobile for 20 hours.

Wardens said searchers on Wednesday morning found 64-year-old Paul Lessard of Milford, Mass., underneath his overturned snowmobile in a ditch with running water in St. John Plantation, near the Canadian border.

Wardens determined that Lessard had been trapped since the previous day. They say he was conscious but showing signs of hypothermia following a frigid night with snow squalls. He was taken to Northern Maine Medical Center, then Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor, where he was listed in fair condition.

Wardens began searching for Lessard on Tuesday after a friend reported that he was overdue. He'd left a rental camp Tuesday morning in Fort Kent.

JOHNSTON, R.I. — Johnston police say a 2-year-old local boy was attacked and bitten in the face by his family's pit bull, which is now under quarantine while officials decide its fate.

Police say the dog attacked the boy Tuesday at a home on Anita Road, after the child pulled on a blanket it was lying on.

The boy suffered puncture wounds to his cheek and nose and scratches on his face. He was treated at Hasbro Children's Hospital for non-life threatening injuries.

The dog is being held at the North Providence Animal Shelter under a15-day quarantine. Police say it doesn't appear the dog had ever attacked anyone before.

BOSTON — Suffolk District Attorney Daniel Conley has declared his candidacy for mayor of Boston.

In a written statement Wednesday, Conley said his entire career has been “dedicated to giving voice to the voiceless and hope to the most poor and vulnerable.”

He also said Boston needs a mayor who can make tough decisions, even when they offend powerful interests, and who can work with business and neighborhood groups.

Conley's decision comes a week after longtime Boston Mayor Thomas Menino announced he would not seek an unprecedented sixth term in office.

Menino's decision was expected to trigger a political stampede of would-be successors.

City Councilor John Connolly had formally declared his candidacy before Menino made the surprise announcement last week. State Rep. Martin Walsh and City Councilor Felix Arroyo are also eyeing the seat.

BELCHERTOWN — A Granby man has been ordered held on $25,000 bail after pleading not guilty to child pornography charges.

David Linnehan was arraigned Tuesday in Eastern Hampshire District Court on charges of possession of child pornography.

The state attorney general's office says state police obtained information from federal authorities about an email account linked to the 37-year-old Linnehan's home they believed contained child pornography.

Investigators obtained a search warrant for the home and he was arrested Monday when the search allegedly turned up pornographic images of children.

If he makes bail, Linnehan must surrender his passport and submit to GPS monitoring, among other conditions.

PROVIDENCE — The dispute that led to a fatal knife fight at Kennedy Plaza in downtown Providence apparently stemmed from an altercation last month between the murder suspect and the victim's 13-year-old sister, police said Wednesday.

Commander Thomas Oates said the younger sister of 18-year-old Charlie Ortero called police on March 10 to report that she had been punched in the face by Diamond Wilson Wooten at her home after the two “exchanged words over a past issue.”

Wooten, 18, is accused of fatally stabbing Charlie Ortero in the chest on Tuesday night.

Oates said the sister was treated at Hasbro Children's Hospital last month after the altercation. He said no charges were brought in that case and that the girl said she would handle the issue herself because she knew where to find Wooten.

Police believe that altercation eventually escalated into the fight in which Ortero was killed. The fight between the two men, both of Providence, apparently started around 9:15 p.m. at a bus stop at the plaza near City Hall, according to Oates.

This is the capital city's second homicide of the year. Twenty-year-old Wesley Smith was found shot to death last week in south Providence.

Providence had 17 homicides last year, up from 12 in 2011.

From Associated Press reports