Shaylynn Capers (Source: BCDC)

A booking photo of Patrick Graham from December. (Source: CCDC)

Debris from the crash.

HANAHAN, SC (WCSC) - A judge set bond at $730,000 over the weekend for the teen accused of leading Hanahan police on a chase which ended in a crash, ejecting and killing two teens.



Last week, South Carolina Highway Patrol charged 17-year-old Shaylynn Nichole Capers with two counts of wreckless homicide. Hanahan police charged her with failure to stop for blue lights and siren, possession of a stolen motor vehicle and possession of stolen property.

Hanahan Police Lieutenant Michael Fowler said Capers was driving the Lexus sedan which crashed into several trees around 10:15 p.m. Wednesday on Foster Creek Road, ejecting and killing 19-year-old Patrick Graham and 18-year-old Martin Pinckney.

Fowler said it all started when officers were patrolling Tanner Plantation due to a recent rash of home burglaries and car break-ins. Officers attempted to stop a gold Lexus ES for a traffic violation on Foster Creek Road.

Fowler said the license plate displayed on the vehicle did not come back to a Lexus and came back as stolen out of Dorchester County. The Lexus was later confirmed to be stolen out of Dorchester County as well.

When the officer activated his blue lights, the vehicle slowed initially before speeding off, officers said. A pursuit began through the Ibis Glade subdivision of Tanner Plantation. At one point the passenger door opened as the front passenger appeared to try to jump out.

The vehicle then struck several mailboxes. The pursuit continued onto Foster Creek Road, where the vehicle began to pull away from police at a very high rate of speed, said Fowler.

The chase then ended when the vehicle crashed in a wooded field at the end of Foster Creek Road, according to Fowler.

Graham and Pinckney, both from North Charleston, were ejected from the vehicle during the crash. They both died from head and body trauma, according to Berkeley County Coroner Bill Salisbury. Graham was pronounced dead on scene and Pinckney died on the way to the hospital, Fowler said.

Fowler said they found a teen who was in the car at the time of the crash, 19-year-old Jimarie Travis Whitehead, in an adjacent subdivision shortly after the crash. He was discharged from the hospital on Friday.



Three guns stolen reported from a Tanner Plantation home were found at the scene of the wreck, according to Fowler. A loaded Beretta 9MM pistol was found in the waistband of one of the dead teens. A Smith & Wesson .38 caliber revolver was found inside the Lexus. A third handgun was also found at the scene.

Fowler said officers also found more stolen property in and around the vehicle.

Copyright 2013 WCSC. All rights reserved.