Smith, a homicide detective, leaves behind a wife and two sons.

Jeremy Rodell Powell (Source: Mississippi Department of Public Safety)

Jackson police officers have surrounded Jackson Police Department headquarters in downtown Jackson Thursday night.

JACKSON, MS (Mississippi News Now) - Hinds County Coroner Sharon Grisham-Stewart now says murder suspect Jeremy Powell, who authorities say shot and killed Jackson police Detective Eric Smith at the Jackson Police Department Thursday, shot himself twice in the head.

Grisham-Stewart previously said Powell had one gunshot wound to the head.

Jackson Mayor Harvey Johnson says a news conference will be called early next week, and officials will answer more questions about the shooting.

The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation says the shooting at the police department Thursday was a murder-suicide. Spokesman Warren Strain says Powell killed Smith and then shot himself.

Grisham-Stewart said Smith was shot twice in the chest and twice in the arm with a 9-mm pistol.

Strain said MBI isn't ready to release any information on if Powell had a criminal history.

Jackson police say the shooting occurred around 5:40 p.m. when Powell was in the process of being arrested for murder. Dozens of officers immediately surrounded the police department, and people were seen fleeing from the building.

Police Chief Rebecca Coleman said Powell was being interviewed on the third floor of the police department. She said there were reports of gunfire, and Smith and Powell were found dead. Powell, 23, was a suspect in the murder of 20-year-old Christopher Alexander. Alexander was found stabbed to death Monday on Greenwood Avenue.

Smith, 40, a homicide detective, leaves behind a wife and two sons. His wife is also a JPD officer.

Smith has testified in many of the most high-profile murder cases in Jackson. He testified as recently as last week in the George Affleck murder trial in the death of Diane Hearn. He also recently testified against former JPD Det. Natyyo Gray who was convicted of killing his 1-year-old daughter.

A former JPD detective says when he did interrogations, he left his weapon in a lock box outside of the room but added that procedures have now changed. He says officers are required to keep their weapons with them now.

Other departments we spoke to said each department has its own policy, but many of those policies require the officer conducting the interrogation to keep his weapon. Sometimes a second officer is present, either outside observing or in the room.

Copyright 2013 MSNewsNow. All rights reserved. AP contributed to this report.