A California Highway Patrol officer’s use of deadly force in a 2013 Fontana incident was found legally justified and a proper exercise of his right to defend another person, according to a San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office review released Tuesday, Nov. 17.

CHP Officer Angel Camilo, of the Rancho Cucamonga CHP office, found a blood-covered woman and a man holding a knife to her throat inside a vehicle at a Park and Ride Lot on Beech Avenue when he responded to a disturbing the peace call about 6:37 p.m. April 7, 2013, near the 210 freeway, according to the written report.

Camilo drew his service weapon, ordered David Mulder, 43, to drop the knife and Mulder refused to comply, so Camilo ran back to his patrol car, radioed for back up, and ran back to the suspect vehicle.

Mulder, of Upland, finally let go of the female, bent down inside the vehicle then popped back up with a knife and moved toward the female. Mulder refused repeated commands from Camilo to drop the knife.

At that point, Camilo fired several rounds at Mulder, according to the district attorney’s memo. Mulder was transported to Kaiser Permanente Fontana Medical Center, where he died from multiple gunshot wounds.

The woman in the car, Elsa Van Cleve, 51, of Fontana, died at the scene from sharp force injuries that included stab wounds and lacerations to her body.

The Fontana Police Department investigated the shooting.

Witnesses who were in the parking lot called 911 to report the altercation after they saw the man and woman fighting, and heard Van Cleve yelling for help.

Camilo told investigators that he tried to use his hand-held radio to broadcast information about the situation but didn’t hear anything on the radio so he went to use his patrol car radio.

“At this time, Officer Camilo believed the situation was escalating quickly and Mulder was going to kill Van Cleve,” according to the memo.

In the district attorney’s staff analysis, “Officer Camilo reasonably feared for Van Cleve’s life and reasonably believed that (his) … only option was to shoot Mulder.”

Mulder had recently been released from state prison as a Post Release Community Supervision offender, as a part of AB109, the Public Safety Realignment Act. He had prior convictions for narcotics-related charges and was let out of prison in September 2012.

He violated terms of his release, was sentenced to 30 days in jail but served only eight days before he was released and enrolled in an electronic GPS monitoring system because he was homeless, according to a 2013 police news release.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9075 or gwesson@pressenterprise.com