Daniel Brock, 47, was shot after he displayed bizarre behavior before the shooting.

Armstrong said the man now identified as Daniel Brock appeared out of control before he was shot and killed by police Wednesday night on the ramp at I-40 and Sycamore View.

Investigators say Brock started following and tailgating a motorist at Auto Zone at Summer and Waring.

MEMPHIS, TN - (WMC-TV) – Memphis Police have identified a suspect that was shot dead by police Wednesday night.



Daniel Brock, 47, was shot after he displayed bizarre behavior before the shooting. Action News 5 has learned Brock has been in trouble before with police.



"Beating on the window, spitting, threatening their lives," Memphis Police Director Toney Armstrong explained. "Did the same thing with the officers beating on the window beating on the squad car."



Armstrong said the man now identified as Daniel Brock appeared out of control before he was shot and killed by police Wednesday night on the ramp at I-40 and Sycamore View.



Investigators say Brock started following and tailgating a motorist at Auto Zone at Summer and Waring. The driver tried to get away and stopped at a light at Whitten and I-40. Brock got out of the car and confronted the man, who then drove to the Appling Farms Station where Brock followed him.



Brock got back in his car and drove off, crashing at I-40 and Sycamore View.



"He exited his vehicle and approached the officers in an aggressive manner," said Armstrong.



Armstrong says Brock refused to comply with commands and put his hands behind his back. That's when one officer shot and killed him. Brock was not armed.



This is not Brock's first encounter with law enforcement. In 1999, Brock was charged with attempted murder and reckless endangerment. Police say he was shooting at officers during a domestic situation outside a Mapco at Summer and Perkins. A clerk was shot during the ordeal. Sources also say he has ties to the KKK or other white supremacy groups.



The officer responsible for the shooting has not yet been identified. He has been relieved of duty while the shooting is being investigated.

Copyright 2013 WMC-TV. All rights reserved.