A suspicious-person call at an apartment complex at 850 Kimball Road in Red Bluff led to a fatal shooting Thursday morning of a wanted parolee, Red Bluff Police Chief Paul Nanfito said.

SHARE

By Record Searchlight Staff

Red Bluff police Chief Paul Nanfito and Tehama County District Attorney Greg Cohen said today that officers who shot and killed a 25-year-old Red Bluff man last week were acting appropriately.

But family members and friends of Adam James Stevens who attended news conferences held by both officials weren't buying the explanations and extensively questioned both men during two emotionally charged scenes.

Stevens was shot by police Thursday after he aggressively moved toward a pair officers on a balcony, Nanfito said. Stevens was brandishing a knife with a 3 ½ to 4-inch blade, he said.

Police were called out to a second-story apartment at 850 Kimball Road around 7:30 a.m. Thursday after witnesses reported Stevens on the balcony.

Nanfito said Stevens wasn't supposed to be at the apartment. Four others, including at least one child, were also there, he said.

"An officer and a detective spoke with Mr. Stevens from the parking lot and repeatedly asked him to come down off the balcony," Cohen said during a separate news conference. "Mr. Stevens continued to state that ?he was not getting down and was not going back to prison.'"

Nanfito said police since July have responded to 19 incidents involving Stevens, five of which resulted in Stevens' arrest on suspicion of resisting police.

Officers entered the apartment and approached the balcony. Stevens was holding a piece of carpet in front of his body and police unsuccessfully tried to hit him with pepper spray, Nanfito said.

An officer in the parking lot of the apartment complex noticed Stevens had a knife and shot him a bean bag round to subdue him. However, non-lethal methods failed to stop Stevens ? a witness said he laughed when he was hit with the bean bag rounds.

Officers inside the apartment noticed the knife and drew their guns. Stevens moved within 5 feet of the officers and raised it an "aggressive and threatening manner," Nanfito said.

Family members asked why police couldn't have closed a door to separate Stevens from police or shot to wound him. At least one woman called the shooting a "brutal killing."

Nanfito repeated that officers first tried non-lethal methods to contain Stevens. They were met with deadly force from Stevens and responded in kind, he said.

"The officers were confronted with deadly force and they responded with deadly force," he said.

The three officers involved in the shooting remain on paid administrative leave, Nanfito said. He said his department has received word of threats of retaliation against the officers and he wouldn't release their names.

"As long as there's any perception of retaliation I will not release those names," Nanfito said after the conference.