Keith BieryGolick

kbierygolick@enquirer.com

DAYTON - As Tiffani Sanford raced down the road to a crash involving two of her children, red and blue police lights cut through the night sky. Moments before, a friend of her sons stood at her door and cleared his throat.

"Ms. Tiffani, your son's been in a crash and two people are dead."

Sanford saw the lights and couldn't breathe. She ordered her sister, who was driving, to pull over.

About a mile down the road, Sanford's oldest son was dead, laying face down in the backseat of a Chevrolet Impala. By that time, her youngest son was in intensive care at Kettering Medical Center.

When she got to him, Lamont Watson was in a neck brace and doctors were stitching his head. The 16-year-old's jaw was broken.

Watson had nearly been killed in a high-speed police chase near the Dayton Mall. His older brother and one of his friends had been killed. Another driver was flown to the hospital.

It never should have happened.

It started when Miami Township Police Officer Raymond Swallen drove by Phillip Lane II's parked car at the mall. Watson was in the passenger's seat and his brother Erik Sanford, 24, was in the back.

What happened next is a tragic illustration of why so many rules surrounding police chases have changed -- and why many officials and citizens alike, including Ohio's attorney general, are saying more needs to be done.

Miami Township police have policies for chases. They just weren't followed that day.

Black drivers die at higher rate in Ohio chases

Officer Swallen saw what he described as a man "wearing a colorful hat" lean into Lane's car, look at him and walk into the mall. The officer, who is white, believed this to be a hand-to-hand drug exchange.

Since he joined the department in 2010, Swallen has been praised for his vigor in pursuing drug investigations and traffic stops. In 2011, he issued 30 minor misdemeanor citations. That was more than double the work of the next closest officer on his shift.

In 2012 and 2013, he made more arrests, citations and reports than anyone in the entire department.

In an interview, Miami Township Police Chief Ronald Hess repeated what's frequently said in Swallen's glowing performance reviews: The 35-year-old has a keen interest in drug enforcement.

This, and not race, Hess insisted, is likely what led to the pursuit.

"He thought he saw a crime. I don’t think it would have been any different if it was a white guy or a female," said Hess. "It really doesn’t matter who it is. If he saw what he thought was a drug deal, he would make a stop."

It was April 15, 2013, and that's what he tried to do.

Lane had driven behind the Elder-Beerman department store. Officer Swallen circled the parking lot to get his license plate number. The car Lane was driving then exited the lot.

Swallen didn't stop.

He turned out of the mall without stopping at a stop sign, dash-cam video of the incident showed. He failed to turn on his lights until he reached 97 mph. He passed a tractor-trailer and several other cars in a center turn lane, kicking up dust, driving 107 mph in a 45 mph zone.

It had been almost a minute, and he still hadn't found them.

When Swallen alerted dispatch, he didn't relay the reason for his pursuit. If he had, a supervisor likely would have told him to stop, Detective Scott FitzGerald concluded in an internal investigation into the incident.

"It is apparent that Officer Swallen('s) intention was to catch up to the suspect vehicle before notifying (the dispatch center) or activating his overhead lights or siren," FitzGerald wrote.

Swallen passed at least 78 vehicles and reached 116 mph during the pursuit, according to investigative documents obtained by The Enquirer through a public records request. When he caught up to Lane, the 23-year-old started driving recklessly. Lane sped up, topping 100 mph, and weaved in and out of lanes to avoid slower traffic.

He was driving 83 mph when he crossed the center line to pass a car going 35 mph and collided head-on with another vehicle.

The full extent of that driver's injuries was not documented in any records reviewed by The Enquirer. When an officer tried to return her purse at the hospital the next day, she was in surgery. She declined multiple interview requests for this story.

After the crash, police found a traffic ticket in the center console of Lane's car. He did not have a valid driver's license. About a month earlier, he was indicted for possession of cocaine and heroin.

Sanford had served nine months in jail for a gun charge in 2011. Montgomery County Sheriff Phil Plummer told the Dayton Daily News he was part of a gang known for dealing heroin. His mother disputes that. She said Watson went to the mall to get new shorts.

Police found a Champs Sports receipt in Lane's car. They didn't find any drugs.

High-speed police chases have killed thousands of innocent bystanders

Policies violated, lives ruined and a career untarnished

Here's the problem: Even if Lane, Sanford and Watson conducted a drug deal, Swallen shouldn't have chased them. The township's policy on chases is clear:

Only pursue suspects involved in violent felony offenses such as rape, kidnapping or homicide.

Swallen was suspended five days without pay. His union argued the written pursuit policy was never physically passed out and said it was only brought up during Swallen's initial training. Other officers hadn't been briefed on the policy in 10 years, according to a grievance against the township filed on Swallen's behalf.

His suspension was eventually reduced to three days, largely because of a collective bargaining issue. Officials were forced to pay him back for the other two days.

Swallen could not be reached for this story.

Lane and Sanford's families wonder what scars the incident left him. Because it hasn't hurt his career.

Swallen is now a detective and has been part of a task force run by Attorney General Mike DeWine. Other officers look up to him, according to his personnel file, and he's been encouraged to apply for supervisory positions.

He received an overwhelmingly positive performance review from the chief this year, where he said Swallen's talents are known throughout the county and state. The fatal crash was not mentioned in his 2013 review.

Phillip Lane, Sr. doesn't want to talk about it.

His son was still in the car when he got there that night -- his eyes open but the life gone. A white sheet covered his body. Lane was pronounced dead at the scene.

His family doesn't bring it up. His sister, Terri Lane, learned that a long time ago.

"My brother still cries today," she said. "It's hard for everyone."

Standing halfway between his screen door and the porch, the elder Lane shakes his head. One hand on the door frame, he rarely makes eye contact.

"My son was wrong. Of course, he was," Lane said emphatically. "He should have just pulled over."

When asked if race played a role in his son's death, he is almost insulted.

"Of course, it did," he said. "You know it did."

Feds fail to track deadly police pursuits

Some questions can never be answered

Carrie Lane spreads the investigative files documenting her son's death on her dining room table. A large fan is blowing in the background while she grabs a handkerchief out of a small wooden box. The box is marked by a circular gold plate on the front:

"In memory of Phillip Lane," it says.

She'd never seen these files before. It was all her family could do to get the initial incident report, which mentions nothing about a police chase. She has no idea Miami Township conducted an internal investigation into the crash. She has no idea any cops were punished.

She scans the pages, carefully examining each word with an outstretched finger. She stops when she gets to this:

"It was not proven that any unlawful activity ever occurred involving (her son's car) before the pursuit."

She taps a fingernail on the page three times.

"You got to know facts. Now, my son is dead," said Carrie Lane. "I think they label our young black men."

Before he died, her son enrolled in a trade school with hopes of starting his own janitorial business. He was short -- couldn't have been more than 5 foot 4 inches tall -- but his personality was large. The attendance at his funeral was even larger.

David Lane, Phil's uncle, knows how it looks.

"I'm not retarded," said David Lane. "He was not an angel."

Tiffani Sanford's surviving son needed counseling. When Watson got out of the hospital, he acted out. He refused to clean up dishes. He was mean to his mom.

He blamed himself.

Football player, brother, friend

Watson, now 19, works at a funeral home. One day recently, Sanford and her middle son Anthony Craver spent an hour looking through old pictures of Erik. She pulled out a cardboard box from a closet with dozens of prom, yearbook and Christmas photos.

Watson stayed in his room with the door shut.

For Craver, talking about Erik is therapeutic. Craver was in federal prison when he died and couldn't come home for the funeral.

Craver knew his brother was dead. He'd spent many hours thinking about it, with nothing to fill his time behind bars beside chess and laps around the track.

It still didn't sink in until he walked into his mom's house in Dayton. It was full of friends and family, but not his brother, who he shared a room with growing up.

Three years later, after looking at the pictures, Craver holds up his brother's red and blue polo shirt. It's the only shirt of his he still has.

First, he crumples it up and holds it under his nose. Can he smell his brother's cologne?

He inhales and smells again.