GRAND BLANC TWP, MI – Officers Andrea Carlson and Lindsay Witthuhn go on two, maybe three domestic trouble calls a day.

But the one on June 17 was no ordinary call.

The two were called for a domestic disturbance at a home around 4:30 p.m. in the 5000 block of Georgetown, which is in the area of Genesee and Hill roads in Grand Blanc Township. While waiting at the door, they saw a woman run out of the house screaming.

She was followed by a man, later identified as 69-year-old Marvin Ware, with a gun in his hand. Carlson got the woman to safety and ordered the man to show his hands.

"I would like to say it was scary," Carlson said on Tuesday. "But quite honestly, it happened so fast there wasn't time to be afraid."

Ware allegedly fired, hitting Carlson in the right shoulder. She returned fire, hitting Ware several times. Witthuhn also fired at him.

"The training took over," said Witthuhn. "You don't have time to think, you just act."

The two were among the 11 officers who were honored on Tuesday, May 6, for heroism, valor and community service at the Genesee County Officer of the Year and Law Day Luncheon. The Downtown Flint Optimist Club hosted the event at the Weekday Restaurant at the Genesee County Skills Center.

Ware is awaiting trial on charges of assault with intent to murder, felony firearm and resisting a police officer causing severe impairment, among others. Carlson was off the job for about seven months but has since returned.

"Officers Carlson and Witthuhn showed amazing professionalism, teamwork and attention to detail during this incident," said John Potbury, special assistant prosecutor at the Genesee County Prosecutor's Office. "Without question, lives were saved because of their courageous and honorable actions."

The officers involved in the shootout in a Genesee Township scrapyard on April 17, 2013, that left a 22-year-old man dead were also honored.

The officers are:

Sgt. Jeff Antcliff, Genesee County Sheriff's Office

Sgt. Devon Bernritter, Flint Police Department

Ofc. Bobby Fowlkes, Flint Police Department

Sgt. Joseph Hall, Flint Police Department

Dep. Scott Minaudo, Genesee County Sheriff's Office

Tpr. Timothy Roberts, MSP, Flint Post

Tpr. Jeffery Rodgers, MSP, Flint Post

Tpr. Troy Szukhent, MSP, Flint Post

The suspect, Thomas G. Manuel III, was wanted in a carjacking the night before. He was evading police and crashed into the scrapyard near Dort Highway and Carpenter Road. Manuel came out of the vehicle and fired at the police officers.

"Deputy Minaudo who was inside the scrapyard perimeter, had worked his way into a position where he could clearly see the suspect concealing himself as he fired at the officers," Potbury said. "Minaudo quickly rook aim with his patrol rifle and fired, bringing down the gunman and ending the threat."

Potbury credited the officers for their strength of mind and personal bravery.

"Each assisted the others, providing cover and working together as a team to stop the threat," Potbury said.

MSP Trooper Sarah Whitman and Rachel Barden, a senior at Genesee High School, also were honored.