An armed man was shot and killed by deputies at a storage facility off State Road 434 on Monday morning.Investigators said Michael Everett Morgan had a rifle and fired shots at them at the facility on State Road 434 and Palm Springs Drive.Police said the Morgan's estranged wife had an injunction against him, so when he showed up at her house, deputies were called."He said, 'If you do call police, there's going to be blood in the driveway, because they're not taking me,'" his wife told a 911 dispatcher.He left before deputies arrived and then barricaded himself in a storage unit. Police said he had suicidal thoughts and was under the influence of drugs and possibly alcohol.They tried to use rubber bullets to subdue him."We tried to engage the suspect with less-lethal munitions. The suspect on three different occasions pointed his rifle at officers, and there was an exchange of gunfire. The last exchange of gunfire, the suspect was hit in the shoulder," said Kevin Tuck with the Longwood Police Department.The Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the use of deadly force.The ordeal forced officials to place a Seminole County school on lockdown. All students at Rock Lake Middle School were kept indoors until the lockdown was lifted shortly after 11 a.m.14277264

An armed man was shot and killed by deputies at a storage facility off State Road 434 on Monday morning.

Investigators said Michael Everett Morgan had a rifle and fired shots at them at the facility on State Road 434 and Palm Springs Drive.

Advertisement

Police said the Morgan's estranged wife had an injunction against him, so when he showed up at her house, deputies were called.

"He said, 'If you do call police, there's going to be blood in the driveway, because they're not taking me,'" his wife told a 911 dispatcher.

He left before deputies arrived and then barricaded himself in a storage unit. Police said he had suicidal thoughts and was under the influence of drugs and possibly alcohol.

They tried to use rubber bullets to subdue him.

"We tried to engage the suspect with less-lethal munitions. The suspect on three different occasions pointed his rifle at officers, and there was an exchange of gunfire. The last exchange of gunfire, the suspect was hit in the shoulder," said Kevin Tuck with the Longwood Police Department.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the use of deadly force.

The ordeal forced officials to place a Seminole County school on lockdown. All students at Rock Lake Middle School were kept indoors until the lockdown was lifted shortly after 11 a.m.