Laura Lane and Ab Tonsing 331-4362 | llane@heraldt.com 331-4245 | atonsing@heraldt.com

The Herald Times

A man suspected of killing a woman in Wisconsin last week shot and killed himself along the B-Line Trail Tuesday night after police captured him.

Police report the man was on the ground at gunpoint when he pulled out a revolver and shot himself in the head.

Eddie D. Callaway, 26, of Waukesha, Wis., was wanted in connection with the April 22 shooting death of 24-year-old Shanel Negron, whom he lived with in Waukesha, a town west of Milwaukee.

Callaway has family members, including his father, in Bloomington, and police had been looking for him here the past few days.

Bloomington police Chief Mike Diekhoff said local police were notified on April 23 by U.S. Marshals that Callaway may have been in the area because of those family connections. Callaway had not been staying with his father while he was in Bloomington, Diekhoff said. Callaway’s father has been interviewed by Bloomington police.

“We weren’t sure he was even here until last night,” Diekhoff said Wednesday afternoon outside the police station.

Police say Callaway shot himself about 10:30 p.m., just south of West 11th Street and North Fairview Street at the B-Line Trail.

According to a Bloomington Police Department news release, an Indiana State Police detective flagged down a BPD officer in the area of West Second Street and College Avenue about 10:30 p.m. when he recognized a man wanted by U.S. Marshals on a warrant.

He described the suspect as a black male on a blue bicycle who had left the area going north on the B-Line Trail.

Another BPD officer found the man and intercepted him where the B-Line Trail crosses North Fairview Street, just south of West 11th Street. That officer ordered the him off of his bicycle and was detaining him on the ground at gunpoint, waiting for a back-up officer to arrive.

When the second officer got there, Callaway reached toward the waistband of his pants, pulled out a gun and then shot himself in the head, the news release said. Medics who arrived on the scene pronounced him dead.

“It happened very quickly,” Diekhoff said. “The officers responded the way they were trained,” he said, and they “protected themselves and others.”

BPD said no police officers fired their weapons during the encounter with Callaway.

“It’s unfortunate that he ended up shooting himself,” Diekhoff said.

In February 2012, Callaway, who gave an address of 3100 S. Walnut Street Pike in Bloomington, was charged with domestic battery committed in the presence of a child and was held in the Monroe County Jail for three months before being released on his own recognizance. The charge was dismissed in September, said Monroe County Chief Deputy Prosecutor Bob Miller, after the alleged victim recanted her story and moved out of state.