A 27-year-old man is charged in the death of a woman in his vehicle after he crashed while fleeing a traffic stop, according to the Lehigh County district attorney’s office.

Josue Joel Santiago Serpa of Allentown was arrested Tuesday on charges that he was driving a car that crashed during a police pursuit Sept. 10, badly injuring passenger Aschlly Diaz-Brown. Authorities said Diaz-Brown died as a result of the injuries roughly two months later.

Serpa is charged with accidents involving death or injury, homicide by vehicle, accidents involving death or injury while not properly licensed, fleeing or eluding police, reckless endangerment, possession of a controlled substance, driving with a suspended license and several other traffic- and vehicle-related offenses.

He was arraigned before District Judge Michael D’Amore and sent to Lehigh County Jail under $100,000 bail.

According to authorities:

State police tried to stop Serpa’s SUV at 10:22 p.m. Sept. 10 on Airport Road because of an issue with the vehicle’s registration. Serpa took off, driving south on Airport Road before turning onto North Irving Street, where he passed vehicles illegally and sped through a red light at Hanover Avenue.

At one point, Serpa was driving at least 68 mph on a road with a 30 mph speed limit.

Serpa lost control along North Irving Street and slammed into a parked car on the southbound shoulder of the road, damaging two other parked vehicles. Serpa then ran off.

Inside the SUV, police found Diaz-Brown, unconscious and trapped in the front passenger seat.

Authorities said they found a plastic bag with marijuana on the front driver-side floorboard.

Diaz-Brown was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury, fractured ribs and a carotid artery dissection among other injuries. She died Nov. 16 at the St. Luke’s Hospice Facility. Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek said she died from head trauma with a brain abscess. Her death was ruled accidental.

Serpa surrendered to police Sept. 13 and police said they found that his driver’s license was suspended from a previous DUI charge.

Morning Call reporter Sarah M. Wojcik can be reached at 610-778-2283 or swojcik@mcall.com.