Juliana Keeping

The mother of an unarmed Oklahoma City man who died last year after being restrained by police has filed a wrongful death lawsuit in Oklahoma County District Court.

Velencia Maiden alleges that officers used excessive force in arresting her son. She also contends the police department inadequately investigates such complaints, fails to adequately train its officers on the use of force and allows a permissive atmosphere in which illegal and unconstitutional behavior toward citizens is tolerated and accepted. Maiden is seeking more than $75,000 in damages.

Clifton Armstrong, 38, died the night of May 1, 2013 after he became paranoid and dialed 911. Four police officers who responded attempted to convince Armstrong to go a hospital before eventually subduing him outside his mother's home at 1421 NW 99. Family members said he was addicted to methamphetamine.

The state medical examiner ruled the death an accident and attributed the cause to “Excited Syndrome due to methamphetamine toxicity.” The finding noted that Armstrong's physical confrontation with police was an "aggravating factor to his death."

Maiden’s lawsuit, filed in January, names officers Jeffery Dutton, Gregory Franklin, Mohammed Tabaia and Daniel Holtzclaw, along with police Chief Bill Citty and the city of Oklahoma City. The suit also alleges wanton and reckless conduct, intentional infliction of emotional distress and civil rights violations.

A department spokesman declined comment.

A department investigation and Oklahoma County District Attorney David Prater both cleared the officers of any wrongdoing.

“It is my opinion that the officers involved made every effort to resolve the matter by encouraging Mr. Armstrong to seek medical and psychological intervention,” Prater wrote in an Aug 3, 2013 letter to Citty notifying the police chief that his officers bore no culpability in the death. “Their efforts were carefully calculated in an attempt to prevent Armstrong from hurting himself or others. Though his death is tragic, Mr. Armstrong’s death was not a result of any police intervention or actions.”

On the night Armstrong died, officers responded about 9 p.m. to a call of a possible suicide attempt.

Armstrong came out of the house and said he was "seeing dragons," according to the medical examiner's report.

He was convinced to get into a squad car before changing his mind and going back toward the house.

When officers tried to get him back into a car, a physical confrontation ensued. At some point, Armstrong stripped off his clothes, police said.

Officers placed Armstrong in handcuffs and used belts to restrain his legs. He then became unresponsive, the autopsy report states.

At the time of his death, Armstrong was on probation for a 2008 burglary conviction, state records show. In the mid-1990s he was sentenced to five years probation on three charges of assault with a dangerous weapon and two charges of concealing stolen property.

His sister, Brigette Armstrong, said her brother had problems. Besides a drug addiction, he lost custody of his children. Brigette Armstrong adopted two of her brother's children in 2007. A third child is with the mother's family, she said.

Despite his troubles, Brigette Armstrong said her brother was loving and strong.