Orlando police identified two of the three men involved in a shootout Friday night at Kirkman Road and Raleigh Street. Authorities said officers initiated a traffic stop on a vehicle that had rammed a police vehicle multiple times and fled.Get breaking news alerts sent to your emailOrlando Police Department spokesman Sgt. Jim Young said the suspects' vehicle crashed seconds later at Raleigh Street and Resource Avenue. A passenger exchanged gunfire with police officers as he fled from the vehicle, armed with a gun, police said.As shots were fired, the driver, who was identified as Marquis James Spencer, 21, was killed. A passenger, Ronmono Carson, 21, fled into a wooded area, where he was captured early Saturday after an extensive search, police said. Investigators said Carson was booked into jail and charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a law officer with use of a firearm.Another man in the vehicle was also captured. Investigators did not release his name and said his involvement was still being investigated, but there were no plans to immediately file charges against him. The man in the vehicle was injured and taken to a hospital. Young said no officers were injured in the incident.The area was closed to traffic while an investigation was completed.Police recovered a firearm Carson allegedly used to fire at officers.Five police officers were involved in the incident, but their specific roles in the operation are still being investigated. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, which is standard procedure for any shooting done by law officers.14277264

Orlando police identified two of the three men involved in a shootout Friday night at Kirkman Road and Raleigh Street.

Authorities said officers initiated a traffic stop on a vehicle that had rammed a police vehicle multiple times and fled.

Advertisement

Get breaking news alerts sent to your email

Orlando Police Department spokesman Sgt. Jim Young said the suspects' vehicle crashed seconds later at Raleigh Street and Resource Avenue.

A passenger exchanged gunfire with police officers as he fled from the vehicle, armed with a gun, police said.

As shots were fired, the driver, who was identified as Marquis James Spencer, 21, was killed. A passenger, Ronmono Carson, 21, fled into a wooded area, where he was captured early Saturday after an extensive search, police said.

Investigators said Carson was booked into jail and charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a law officer with use of a firearm.

Another man in the vehicle was also captured. Investigators did not release his name and said his involvement was still being investigated, but there were no plans to immediately file charges against him.

The man in the vehicle was injured and taken to a hospital. Young said no officers were injured in the incident.



The area was closed to traffic while an investigation was completed.

Police recovered a firearm Carson allegedly used to fire at officers.

Five police officers were involved in the incident, but their specific roles in the operation are still being investigated.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, which is standard procedure for any shooting done by law officers.