A member of the Chicago Police Department puts a marker down during a shooting investigation at the corner of 13th Street and S. Independence Blvd. (Nuccio DiNuzzo, Chicago Tribune)

A teenaged gunman on a bicycle who officials said was firing shots at pedestrians and police officers was fatally shot by police this afternoon on the West Side, according to authorities.

The gunman, who is 15 or 16, was pronounced dead at Mount Sinai Hospital, according to Pat Camden, a police union spokesman.

Advertisement

It happened in the 1300 block of South Independence Boulevard in the Lawndale neighborhood, according to police.

At about 4:10 p.m., Ogden District tactical officers were northbound on Independence Boulevard approaching Roosevelt Road when they heard gunshots coming from the west side of Independence, according to a statement released by Chicago Police Department News Affairs.

Advertisement

When the officers made a U-turn and crossed the median, they spotted the offender firing shots at pedestrians and fleeing southbound on a bicycle while brandishing a handgun, the statement said.

"He was riding a bicycle firing at people on the street," Camden said.

The officers were pursuing the offender when he turned towards the officers and fired shots at them, prompting the officers to fire their weapons and hit the gunman, the statement said.

"They're right behind him in an unmarked car beeping their sirens and flashing their lights when he turns around, twice, and fired at the squad car," Camden said.

"The third time he turned around, the passenger in the squad car fired at him and hit him," Camden said. "He was DOA at Mount Sinai."

A spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office said they had been notified but were not releasing further information.

A semi-automatic handgun was recovered at the scene, Camden said.

"We received notification of an offender struck by police and we are on the scene," Larry Merritt, a spokesman for the Independent Police Review Authority, said earlier.

Advertisement

Nasser Abdullah, who works at the BP gas station located at 3808 W. Roosevelt Rd., said he called 911 after hearing what he said sounded like one gunshot a block away.

"I heard a boom," Abdullah said. "I called them and told them there was a shooting.''

About ten minutes before that, there was a fight outside and two girls came into his station.

"I called police for that too," Abdullah said.

Streets were blocked in the area during the incident and Merritt said they are investigating.

Multiple calls to the Chicago Fire Department were not returned.

Advertisement

rsobol@tribune.com

Twitter: @RosemarySobol1