By Kristen Cates;

It took a jury of eight less than 30 minutes Friday afternoon to decide police were not acting criminally when they shot and killed a Great Falls man who had been firing shots at them as they tried to take him into custody on a probation violation in May in a Fox Farm neighborhood filled with single-family homes.

Thomas Pulst, 29, died from multiple gunshot wounds in the backyard of his home on Carmel Drive on May 8, according to testimony from Dr. Willie Kemp, a medical examiner with the Montana State Crime Lab, during a coroner’s inquest into Pulst’s death held Friday in Cascade County District Court. The investigation conducted by the Montana Department of Justice’s Division of Criminal Investigation revealed that he died from shots fired by deputy U.S. marshals.

Kemp appeared via VisionNet from Missoula to tell the jury he declared Pulst’s death to be a homicide.

“Homicide is a medical determination,” Kemp said. “It doesn’t imply anything was done illegally.”

The inquest was overseen by Dick Brown, Fergus County’s coroner, and operates slightly differently than a typical criminal trial. Members of the jury can ask questions of witnesses, and the jury’s job is to determine whether the deceased is who police say, that they died in the location reported, and whether the death of that person by police was done so by “criminal means.”

Multiple police officers, probation and parole officers, and U.S. marshals testified, along with Kemp and an agent from DCI — some still emotional about what they experienced that day and how many shots were fired.

“It sounded like the Fourth of July,” Great Falls Police Officer Justin Stevens said.

Each witness walked the Cascade County Attorney’s Office and jury members through what unfolded when they arrived at Pulst’s home at 2749 Carmel Drive that day to take him into custody for absconding from conditions of his probation and parole. Each witness recounted to the jury how they feared for their life as they heard gunshots first coming from the bedroom where Pulst was holed up, then from the backyard where Pulst was firing two guns in the direction of two deputy U.S. marshals.

“I was in fear of everybody’s life — including his,” said Deputy U.S. Marshal Morgan Kasuske, who choked back tears as he testified.

Kasuske and Deputy U.S. Marshal Jeremy Fisher were the two law enforcement officers on scene to fire the fatal shots at Pulst. Pulst had six gunshot wounds, according to the medical examiner’s report. Kemp said toxicology reports indicate Pulst also had methamphetamine in his system at the time of his death.

Deputy U.S. Marshal Jeremy Fisher also fired shots after repeated attempts by him and Kasuske to get Pulst to put his guns down, and only after he had fired shots toward them.

“In each hand he had a gun,” Fisher said. “He had one trained at Kasuske and one at me.”

Each officer recounted how this escalated so rapidly after Pulst’s probation and parole officer, Tim Hides, asked for assistance from the marshals and Great Falls Police Department in bringing Pulst — a person Hides knew to be violent — into custody.

“Thomas had a history of running from the police,” Hides said.

Pulst had previous convictions of felony criminal endangerment after he fired an AK-47 in the area of 1500 2nd Ave. N.W, in 2001, and a subsequent probation violation for firing more gun shots in another criminal endangerment case.

Pulst had recently absconded — meaning he’d failed to check in with Hides in more than a month. Acting on information that Pulst was now home, Hides asked for assistance to bring him into custody. He said there were four people who had to be evacuated from the home — one of them a young child who was still in the residence when Pulst fired the first two shots from a bedroom.

Once officers heard three louder shots fired, they, too, evacuated the house and retreated to their vehicles in front. Meanwhile, Kasuske was standing in a neighboring backyard and Fisher came along the other side of the house.

Pulst came out the backdoor with two guns in hand and made his way to the fence line before finally falling to the ground from the six shots fired by Kasuske and Fisher.

Mark Hilyard, lead investigator from the Division of Criminal Investigation, testified Pulst was carrying a pistol and a revolver, one of which had been stolen two weeks prior. He tried to fire nine shots both in and outside of the house.

Hilyard did not disclose how many shots were fired by the marshals. Hilyard reviewed ballistics reports and statements from each of the seven law enforcement officials on scene and said everything matched up.

Cascade County Deputy Attorney Kory Larsen asked Hilyard if he believed Kasuske and Fisher’s response was justifiable self defense.

“Oh, absolutely,” Hilyard said. “Mr. Pulst had created the situation.”