Advertisement Driver ID'd following fatal chase with CHP Penn Valley man identified Share Copy Link Copy

A man who died Monday after leading officers on a chase and crashing his BMW off Interstate 80, injuring two workers as the car went airborne, was identified, the California Highway Patrol said.The driver was identified as William Orr, 55, of Penn Valley. CHP Truckee spokesman, Officer Pete Mann, told KCRA 3 a lot of marijuana was found on the ground near the vehicle in buckets and jars.For hours, all westbound traffic was closed on I-80 at Castle Peak after the construction-area wreck. The highway has since reopened.The CHP pursuit started about 1:40 p.m. and lasted 20 minutes on I-80 east near Big Bend, Mann said.Police tried to pull over the 42-year-old man, but he refused to stop. Officers had taken calls reporting a driver speeding and passing on the shoulders near Dutch Flat.Police actually watched Orr used a construction area to pass traffic.The chase reached speeds of up to 100 mph, Mann said.The pursuit continued into the city of Truckee, when the driver exited at Donner Pass Road. He then got back onto I-80, this time heading west.The CHP chased Orr to the Soda Springs exit, where the man crashed about 2 p.m., and died.Two California Conservation Corps workers were struck, police said.The 1989 BMW driver entered a coned area where the CCC employees were working, lost control of his car, collided with a dirt embankment and flipped the vehicle several times, according to a CHP news release.The workers were struck as they tried to get out of the way.Linda Heuangpaseud, 23, suffered major head injuries, and was flown to a nearby hospital. Paramedics treated Jose Gabriel Garcia, 19, for minor shoulder injuries. Both are from Fresno."We were shocked to hear what happened. It sounds like a strange freak accident. And we're happy to hear that our one core member still in the hospital is in stable condition," said Susanne Levitsky, the CCC spokesperson.Levitsky said the two were part of a crew clearing brush on the side of I-80 as part of a Caltrans project.The chase suspect didn't have plates on his BMW. Orr was pronounced dead at the crash scene.He had no passengers at the time of the deadly wreck. KCRA 3's Claire Doan contributed to this report.