HUNTSVILLE, Alabama - A hostage situation in Knox Creek subdivision ended this afternoon with two dead, including the suspect, and another person seriously injured, but two young children inside the home were unharmed, a Huntsville police spokesman said.

Spokesman Dr. Harry Hobbs said police were working to find family members to take the children, who neighbors said were an infant and a 2-year-old. Hobbs said the children were in "good condition" and did not release their ages.

A woman was found dead inside the home in the 200 block of Mountain Creek Rd after members of a SWAT team and Huntsville Police officers made entry into the home at 12:25 p.m., about five hours after the stand-off began. The suspect also was found dead in the home from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Hobbs said.

At 9:45 p.m., police released the names of the victims. Found dead inside the home were Brandon Lee Titsworth, the suspected shooter, and Ashley Leann Spangler. The press release did not give their ages or say how the two were connected.

A third woman who Hobbs said "we hope will survive this" was loaded into a HEMSI ambulance and taken to Huntsville Hospital with life-threatening injuries. Her name and relationship to Titsworth have not been released.

"Currently, the evidence looks as if the suspect shot the two women," Hobbs said. The weapon was a handgun, he said, but he did not say what type. He did not give a motive and said investigators were looking into the suspect's history.

Hobbs described the incident as a domestic dispute.

The incident began when a woman called police from inside the home at 7:40 a.m. to report a "volatile situation," Hobbs said.

Huntsville police have blocked off Mountain Creek Drive in Knox Creek subdivision. A person is barricaded inside a home in the 200 block. Ambulances are on stand-by. (Kelly Kazek/kkazek@al.com)

A mobile SWAT unit, more than eight Huntsville Police cars, two HEMSI ambulances, negotiators and a deputy from the Madison County Sheriff's Office were called to the scene. A portion of Knox Creek Trail, the main artery of this neighborhood of small homes, was barricaded to all but local traffic, as were Sweet Hollow Road and Mountain Creek Drive.

Hobbs said negotiators and SWAT members worked toward a peaceful resolution to the stand-off and finally determined it was necessary to enter the home. A witness said he heard the sounds of "flashbangs," or stun grenades used by authorities to disorient a subject, inside the home at the time of entry.

Hobbs did not confirm if flashbangs were used and said entry was made "as information was developed and we found that maybe someone was injured and there were children involved."

The suspect was dead when team members entered the home. Hobbs did not disclose how long Spangler had been dead.

The subdivision, located off Balch Road about a mile from the Madison-Limestone county line, is a typically quiet neighborhood with small homes for families with young children and retirees.

Updated with names of the deceased at 11 p.m. May 11.

Follow Kelly Kazek on Twitter. Email her at kkazek@al.com or call 256-701-0576 or find her on Facebook.