The last thing Jenny Lynn Borelis did as a free woman was run.

In the predawn hours of Mother’s Day, the 28-year-old, who had given birth to four children and adopted them all away, hid behind a parked car in West Kelso.

As a Kelso officer scanned the area with a spotlight, Borelis, hunkered down, was already dying. An infection spread by dirty drug needles was poisoning her blood and destroying her organs. Hepatitis C was likely attacking her liver. Heroin and meth were ruining her brain. What was about to happen would unleash a chaotic and painful series of events that would mark the end of her chaotic and painful life.

Borelis, who was wanted on several warrants, tried to flee. The officer deployed his stun gun and Borelis fell on her head. She was examined by doctors at St. John Medical Center, where a needle tucked into her bra pricked a nurse, raising the possibility that he, too, could be infected with Hepatitis C. Then she was booked into the Cowlitz County Jail, where she stopped breathing three days later.

Investigative documents obtained by The Daily News suggest that Borelis’ May 16 death was caused by the septic infection that was spreading throughout her body long before her May 12 arrest. The reports, from the Cowlitz County Sheriff’s Office’s investigation into Borelis’s death, as well as interviews with her family reveal how the young woman self-destructed over the course of about a decade.

Property stolen. Children unparented. Disease spread. Her family knew she was angry and lost. Borelis, they said, had been sexually abused by serial killer Joseph Kondro when she was about 11.

“Oh man, she was so tired,” said Borelis’ aunt, Teia Brindley, 51, of Longview. “This baby was tired of life.”

Borelis had been living on the street, spending much of her time under the Cowlitz Way Bridge or, in Brindley’s words, “any old drug flop house she could get into.”

“She’d con her mom to let her back in the house,” Brindley said. “Then she and her drug friends would start walking away with her mom’s TV. I’d have to go into the dirtiest pits of Kelso... and go threaten these people with the police to get (Borelis’s mother’s) stuff back.”

Detoxing in the lockup

Jail officials and Borelis’ fellow inmates initially attributed her poor health to detoxing from heroin. On the night of May 14, two days after she had been booked into jail, Borelis told her cellmate she was feeling “achy,” according to the reports. Her breathing was shallow and she complained about pain in her arm, the cellmate said. Borelis’ speech was slurred, as though she had suffered a stroke.

Around lunchtime the following day, Borelis fell out of the bottom bunk in her cell. The jail medical staff examined her and determined she was withdrawing from heroin. Borelis was trying to talk, but jail officers couldn’t understand her. Her mattress was yanked off the cot and left on the floor so she wouldn’t fall off the bunk again.

Over the next four hours, Borelis thrashed around on the floor, vomiting and mumbling, witnesses told investigators. Then she stopped breathing.

Borelis’ panicked cellmate, who was herself detoxing, called for help over an intercom in her cell. The jail medical staff arrived and began CPR. One jail officer’s report said Borelis was “motionless” and “had an odd coloring to her feet and face.” Jail staff hung blankets on nearby cells so other inmates couldn’t see what was happening.

Paramedics wheeled Borelis out of the cell block and took her to St. John Medical Center, then to Southwest Washington Medical Center in Vancouver. She left behind an empty cell where shoes, bedding, clothing, paper sacks and vomit were strewn across the floor.

Rumors swirled that Borelis swallowed a container of drugs before she was booked into the jail, according to investigators’ reports. Borelis had reportedly asked at least one inmate how long it would take for the drugs to pass through her digestive tract, and several inmates were eagerly anticipating this event so that they could get high with Borelis.

At the Vancouver hospital, doctors kept Borelis as comfortable as possible until she died, on May 16 at 2:55 p.m., a day after she was admitted.

During an autopsy conducted by the Clark County Medical Examiner’s Office, doctors removed a plastic container — similar to a small film canister — from Borelis’ stomach. Inside the container they found meth and black tar heroin. Investigators noted that the plastic container was dry inside, which suggested that none of the drugs inside had entered Borelis’ bloodstream.

The autopsy also revealed that Borelis had an infection that originated in a vein in her arm — likely from repeatedly shooting up with dirty needles. The infection, doctors said, had spread, leaving “dead” tissue throughout her body, including her spleen, lungs and pelvic muscles, according to one report.

Borelis’ official cause of death was listed as a septic bacterial infection caused by chronic intravenous drug use.

Jail inmates accused officials of not coming to Borelis’ cell soon enough after it was reported that Borelis wasn’t breathing. Her cellmate said it took about three minutes for a corrections officer to arrive at the cell.

Other inmates said in a letter to the newspaper that corrections staff should have monitored Borelis’ condition more closely.

Cowlitz County Corrections Director Marin Fox Hight, however, wrote in an email that, “no changes were made to our policies or procedures as a result of this incident.”

‘We lose our kids’

“Yeah, she was a druggie, but she did have a good heart,” said Borelis’ mother, Laura Elliott, 63, of Kelso. “When her brain wasn’t filled up with drugs and stuff, she was smart as a bug. ... When she was on meth, there was times that she was just, oh jeez, she was mean.”

Borelis grew up in Kelso and attended Catlin Elementary School and Huntington Middle School. Around the age of 11, she was sexually abused by Longview serial rapist and killer Joseph Kondro, who was convicted of killing two local girls and died in prison last year, Borelis’ family said.

Elliott said Kondro had been living with Borelis’ father, who was estranged from Elliott. Kondro abused Borelis one night while she was staying at her father’s house, Elliott said. (Longview police confirmed that Borelis was listed as one of Kondro’s sex abuse victims.)

Her mother said Borelis was caught with marijuana and was busted for shoplifting during her early teen years and spent time in juvenile detention. Around the age of 13, she hopped a train to Spokane without telling her parents.

Borelis became pregnant and dropped out of Kelso High School, never to return. In all, Borelis would have four children, twin girls, another daughter and, a few years ago, a boy, Elliott said. All of the children were adopted out to other families because of Borelis’ drug problems.

She started using meth and heroin around the age of 16 or 17, according to her family.

When Brindley, Borelis’ aunt, learned of her niece’s death, she thought, “Here we go again.”

Brindley lost her own daughter, Jennifer Prestegard, 26, to a prescription painkiller overdose in 2006. She had been hosting Bible study sessions in the juvenile and adult lockups in recent years trying to save other families the same fate. All the while she watched Borelis destroy herself.

“It’s sad,” Brindley said. “It’s sad because we lose our kids at a very young age. And they get out there and they get to running with the wrong people. And they start doing the drugs with them. ... And the drugs kill everything away.”

Brindley said that she was leading one of her Bible studies in the jail May 14 and had hoped to see her niece. But the other inmates told her Borelis wasn’t feeling well.

“They said she’s too sick. She couldn’t come. She’s just going to go to bed,” Brindley recalled. “I told them at the end (of the class), you go back there and give her a big hug from Auntie Teia and tell her I love her, Jesus loves her and everything’s going to be OK.”

Borelis stopped breathing the following day.

“It was time,” Brindley said. “She needed to go.”