Staff Writer

Observer-Dispatch

C. Kathy Loop McKinnon

June 7, 1947- May 2, 2013

NELSON, N.Y. - Kathy McKinnon passed away Thursday, May 2, at her home in Nelson, with family at her side, after a long, courageous fight against cancer.

She was born in Oneida, N.Y., to William and Arlene Loop, grew up in Hamilton, and lived most of her adult life in Cazenovia and Nelson. She married Charles Gazlay in 1966 and Robert McKinnon in 1982. After graduating from SUNY Cortland, she and her husband opened MacKinnon Liquors in Cazenovia where she worked until her retirement in 2009. She loved to work in her garden, was an avid reader and contributed many volunteer hours to community projects including The Key, the Art Park and the library.

Predeceased by her parents and sister, Teresa, she is survived by her husband, Robert; her “boys,” Jeffric (Heather) and Pauhl Gazlay; and grandchildren, Quinn and Carli, all of Florida; her stepchildren, Scott and Judy McKinnon; and grandchildren, Fern and Piper. She also leaves behind her loving sisters, Sylvia (William) McSwain, Johnnye Dee (John) Mullen and Marilyn (Allan) Atkinson; her favorite brother, Jack Loop (Tracie Debisschop); as well as six nieces and nephews, three aunts, an uncle, 28 cousins and many, many friends.

In lieu of flowers, please donate to the William & James Loop Scholarship Fund, IOOF, 35 Lebanon Street, Hamilton, N.Y. 13346.

Memorial services will be held in Cazenovia at a later date, with Ayer & Zimmer Funeral Home in charge of arrangements. Meanwhile, all friends and family are invited to help celebrate her birth at a pot-luck party at 5:30 p.m. on her birthday, June 7th, at her sister’s at 30 Eaton Street in Hamilton.

Joseph V. Stachnick

SCOTIA - Joseph V. Stachnick, 95, of Scotia, formerly of Rome, passed away peacefully May 2, 2013, at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady.

Joe was born in Rome on Feb. 12, 1918, the son of Agatha and John Stachnick, and he attended Rome schools. He was married to his loving wife, Matilda Pisiak, for 52 years, until she predeceased him on August 15, 1994. Joe's faith and the Catholic Church were very important to him.

Joe was very proud to serve with the U.S. Army in the European Theater in WW II. After the war, he worked for Revere Copper Products, Inc., and retired from the company. He also ran his own business - Joe's Garage - repairing vehicles for many years. He was a lifetime member of the Rome Polish Home and a member of the American Legion. He devoted his time from 1994 to 2002 assisting in grounds and maintenance for the St. Joseph Cemetery in Hamilton.

He is survived by his brother, Andy; his two daughters, JoAnn and Molly Ann; two grandchildren, William and Johanna; two great-grandchildren, Stefani and Rhiannon; and his great-great-grandson, Landon.

A Mass of Christian Burial was celebrated Friday, May 10, 2013, at St. Mary's Catholic Church, Wylie Street, Hamilton, N.Y., followed by interment at St. Joseph's Cemetery.

To send a condolence and sign the Book of Memories online, go to www.burgessandtedescofuneralhomes.com

William J. McEligot

EARLVILLE - William J. McEligot, 88, of Abbott Avenue, passed away Wednesday, May 8, 2013, at Bassett Healthcare in Cooperstown.

Born Jan. 27, 1925, in Sherburne, he was a son of Patrick J. and Ida Foote McEligot and was a graduate of Sherburne High School. On March 17, 1950, he married Helen L. Baker in Earlville. She predeceased him on Dec. 30, 2003. Bill had worked at Colgate University in Hamilton for 30 years. He had also worked at Vernon Downs for 30 years and following his retirement was the caretaker for the Pratt Newton Home in Sherburne. Bill had a great sense of humor and a sharp wit. He loved the outdoors and enjoyed sports, especially golfing. He also loved his German shepherds.

Bill was a member of the First Baptist Church in Earlville.

Surviving are his children, Michael and Mariann McEligot, of West Haven, Conn., Matthew and Mary Lynn McEligot, of Earlville; a sister, Anne Reese, of St Louis; eight grandchildren, Christopher Smith, of Clark Mills, Kimberly Brown, of Earlville, Charlotte Brown of Sherburne, Tiffany Webb, of Sarasota, Fla., Heather Jo McEligot, of St. Petersburg, Fla., Tracy Fowler, of Port Allegheny, Pa.; Aaron McEligot and Alicia McEligot, both of Norwich; a great-granddaughter, Isabella; and many nieces and nephews. He was predeceased by a son, Timothy, in 2005; a brother, John P., in 2012, and a sister, Mary (Miller) Foster.

Memorial services were held Saturday, May 11, 2013 from the Burgess & Tedesco Funeral Home, 3 Preston Street, Earlville with interment in the Graham Cemetery, Hubbardsville.

Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Cancer Society, or the Heart Association.

To send a condolence and sign the Book of Memories online go to www.burgessandtedescofuneralhomes.com

Lawrence Ralph Munz

WILDWOOD, FL - Lawrence Ralph Munz, 79, of Wildwood, Fla., died unexpectedly on Saturday, April 6, 2013.

Mr. Munz was born in Augusta, N.Y. He moved from New York in 1977 to the Green Swamp and then to Orlando. The family moved to Wildwood in 1985.

Most recently Larry worked with his son, Steve, at Galaxy Home Solutions, Inc. He was a lifelong member of the American Quarter Horse Association and the International Buckskin Association. Horses were his greatest passion. He was also a member of the Loyal Order of the Moose. He held great belief in supporting the youth of the AQHA, IBHA, 4-H and Future Farmers of America.

Survivors include his wife, Veronica; daughters Diana Wilson, Kim Marshall, Lori Barone, Amy Barco, and Erin Munz; sons, Larry, Steve and Brian, as well as Jim Gallagher and Pat Gallagher; sister, Joan Ritenour; mother-in-law, Bertha Patrick; more than 50 grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, nieces and nephews.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions to The Larry Munz 4-H and FFA Scholarship Fund being arranged with Citizens First Bank, P.O. Box 1927, The Villages, Fla. 32158.