shootouttt.jpg

5-15- Springfield - Police investigate scene of shoot-out with officers that took the life of 44-year-old Louis Squires Wednesday morning.

(Michael S. Gordon / The Republican)

Updates stories posted at 7:15 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. Wednesday.

SPRINGFIELD — Police have identified a 44-year-old city man fatally shot by officers Wednesday morning during a shoot-out on Albemarle Street as Louis M. Squires.



No injuries were reported in the shoot-out, which involved five officers, Sgt. John M. Delaney said.

The woman who allegedly touched off the incident by vandalizing the suspect's car, Ethel L. McCreary, 27, of 17 Daytona St., was ordered held without bail pending a mental health assessment during her arraignment in District Court on one count of malicious damage to a motor vehicle.



The incident began at about 5:50 a.m. when McCreary allegedly went to Squires's home at 73 Albemarle St. and used a cinder block to smash the windows of a car he had rented. Police said Squires emerged from the residence to confront McCreary and retrieved a shotgun from the vehicle.

Calls to police by neighbors reported a man firing a shotgun at a woman who was hiding behind a black car. As officers arrived at the scene, Squires allegedly fired at a police cruiser.

Louis M. Squires appears in a 1998 photo provided by police Wednesday.

When police backed down the street and called for back-up, the suspect continued to fire at them, said Delaney, aide to commissioner William J. Fitchet. Officers were able to get McCreary to safety. Squires, meanwhile, moved through rear yards to Braddock Street. Once there, officers again exchanged gunfire with Squires and he was shot. Police took Squires into custody and began administering first aid. He was taken to Baystate Medical Center where he was pronounced dead, Delaney said.

Squires was not licensed to own the gun used in the incident, Delaney said.

Delaney said McCreary, who also allegedly scratched the car with a key and slashed its tires, was upset with Squires because he was seeing another woman.

Ethel L. McCreary, 27, of 17 Daytona St., is charged with malicious damage to a motor vehicle in connection with the incident.

Fitchet has placed all five officers on paid administrative leave for a week so they can be debriefed and receive other assistance if needed, Delaney said. The officers have not been identified.

“The officers reacted professionally and strategically making sure that citizens were not caught in any crossfire,” Delaney said.

Fitchet is in Washington, D.C. this week attending National Police Week ceremonies in honor of fallen officers, including the late Kevin Ambrose, who was fatally shot while responding to a domestic call on June 4, 2012.

The investigation into the Albemarle Street shooting is headed by Lt. Thomas Kennedy and Lt. Trent Duda of the detective bureau.

Hampden District Attorney Mark Mastroianni reviewed the shooting scene later in the morning. He declined to comment at the scene. As a matter of procedure, the district attorney's office conducts a review of all officer-involved shootings.

In court, Assistant District Attorney Marie A. Angers asked for $1,000 bail for McCreary, but Judge Robert Pellegrini set the figure at $300 after hearing from defense lawyer Jeremy Powers.



The judge reconsidered after speaking to McCreary's mother at sidebar and ordered the defendant held without bail pending an examination today.



In arguing for $1,000 bail, Angers told the judge the defendant's mother said her daughter had history of abusing prescription and street drugs.



Powers told the judge his client did not have an extensive criminal record and was employed at Dunkin' Donuts on Tapley Street.

The map below shows the scene of the shooting. The red area shows sections of the streets cordoned off by police tape as of 7:30 a.m. The red pin with a black dot shows where nearly 40 evidence markers were placed in Albemarle Street. The red pin with no dot marks 85 Albemarle St., where police were investigating the Toyota sedan vandalized in the incident. The blue pin shows the location where police inspected what appeared to be a damaged cruiser at the intersection of Braddock Street and Westford Circle.

This is a developing story; more details will be posted on MassLive.com as our reporting continues.