ALHAMBRA– A man shot by three Alhambra police officers in the lobby of the police station Friday suffered from mental health issues, officials said.

Khan Tony Nim, 35, of Alhambra, also had four prior arrests by Alhambra police for cultivation of marijuana, grand theft, under the influence and battery on a peace officer, and other arrests from Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s, said Lt. Dave Coleman of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau

Nim was shot and killed by the officers after he brandished a 12-inch carving knife in the lobby of the police department Friday morning. He died of multiple gunshot wounds, Coleman said.

Coleman said Nim lived in Alhambra with his parents in the city. He said even though Nim is deceased, he could not release further information on Nim’s mental health issues because of HIPAA restrictions.

“Even we have to file court orders to get that information,” Coleman said.

A woman who identified herself as Nim’s aunt said Tuesday in Vietnamese that the family did not want to talk about Nim’s death because it is “a family matter. “

Coleman said the autopsy was conducted Monday. Los Angeles County Coroner’s Assistant Chief Ed Winter said Tuesday Nim’s autopsy report has been on security hold by the Sheriff’s Department.

Coleman said the Sheriff’s investigation would likely conclude within 90 days.

The three officers involved in the shooting, whose names had not yet been released Tuesday, have been placed on paid administrative leave, said Alhambra police spokesman Sgt. Jerry Johnson. Coleman said the officers’ names would be released after he notified them that their names would appear in the media.

Johnson said in addition to the Sheriff’s and District Attorney’s Office investigation, the department plans to launch an internal review of the shooting.

“Of course we’ll look into it internally, but right now it’s the Sheriff and the District Attorney,” Johnson said.

Five officers responded to the incident and tried to talk to the man in “several different languages and dialects” Friday. At least one officer in the lobby did have a stun gun, but was unable to deploy it.

Coleman said other employees and some maintenance workers witnessed the incident, but there were no residents present in the lobby.

Staff Writer Zen Vuong contributed to this story.