Police in Inglewood on Saturday shot dead a man who was smashing out squad car windows with a machete. (KTLA)

A machete-wielding man was shot outside a California police station after cops confronted him smashing out police cruiser windows with the weapon.

Inglewood police don't know what drove the man to smash the windows of eight patrol cars in the lot at the police station on Saturday and then threaten an officer with the 18-inch blade.

Advertisement

The 6 p.m. shooting was videotaped by a passerby and broadcast on local TV station KTLA.

In it, the man can be seen walking toward a cop taking cover behind the door of a squad car.

Advertisement

Shots ring out, and the man crumples to the ground.

The man was taken to a hospital and died during surgery, police told the Los Angeles Times.

The officer who shot him has been placed on administrative leave while police investigate, a spokesperson said.

The Daily Breeze newspaper in Torrance identified the man as Charles Curl, 46, of Los Angeles.

The man who shot video of the incident told KTLA that he was shaken up by what he saw.

The 6 p.m. shooting was filmed by a passerby. On it, the man with the weapon, identified as Charles Curl, 46, can be seen walking toward an officer with the machete in his hand. (KTLA)

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE

"(The officer) already jumped out with his weapon drawn, didn't tell him to stop, didn't tell him put your hands up, drop your weapon, none of that. He just shot him," the man said.

Law enforcement expert Richard Lichten told the station the video didn't tell the whole story.

Advertisement

"I don't know what the distances were, I don't know who the shooter was … what I do know is there's an individual with a very large weapon in his hand," Lichten said.

Lichten suggested the cop who pulled the trigger may not have had time to tell Curl to drop the weapon.

"Officers don't have to yell 'freeze, get your hands up,' if there's not time to do it," he said. "The officers are supposed to yell a warning if there's time and it prudent and safe to do it.

Curl, a father of four, suffered from bipolar disorder, but took his medication and wasn't a violent person, family members told KTLA.