The Texas Rangers are investigating after officials say a Bosque County sheriff’s deputy fatally shot an armed man Monday afternoon.

The man killed was identified as 22-year-old Alan Stokes.

In a news release issued by the sheriff’s office, authorities say several deputies responded about 3 p.m. Monday to a residence in the 130 block of County Road 1607 in Laguna Park, where they found medical personnel removing a pregnant woman from the home.

A man officials described as a suspect was inside the home and refused to come out, the release states.

The woman told deputies that he was on medication and was stabbing himself, officials said.

After seeing blood on the porch and the floor inside the home, deputies went inside, finding Stokes in a dark bedroom, according to authorities.

Stokes reportedly drew what appeared to be a handgun when deputies ordered him to show his hands and come out of the room, officials said.

Deputies ordered Stokes to drop the gun several times, and at one point, Stokes aimed the weapon at deputies and made threatening statements, according to the release.

“The lead deputy, fearing for his own life and that of the other deputies, fired at Stokes, striking him in the chest,” the release states.

Stokes was treated by medical personnel but died at the scene.

The name of the deputy who reportedly shot Stokes was not released Tuesday.

He is on paid administrative leave, pending the conclusion of the investigation, according to the news release.

Suspect’s vehicle found

The vehicle driven by a wanted man who escaped police after a recent pursuit was found by law enforcement officers Tuesday, but the search for its driver was still ongoing, according to authorities. Mart Police Chief David Monthey said the truck reportedly driven by 43-year-old Teddie Davenport was found near Grand Prairie, about two days after the most recent pursuit with officers.

Multiple law enforcement agencies continued searching Tuesday for Davenport, whom authorities consider to be armed and dangerous.

Two officers were injured while pursuing Davenport on Sunday, when gravel on the road caused their patrol car to skid into a ditch, Monthey said.

Both officers were taken to a local hospital for treatment of what Monthey described as moderate injuries and later released. Neither officer’s name has been released.

Monthey also emphasized Tuesday that anyone helping Davenport avoid apprehension would be arrested.

Davenport faces charges of evading arrest, aggravated assault on a peace officer with a deadly weapon and failure to stop and render aid-serious bodily injury.

The chief urged anyone with information about Davenport’s whereabouts to contact their local police department.