EVANSTON, Wyoming -- A man was shot and killed by police in Wyoming after he fired a weapon into stores, led police on a chase and aimed a rifle at an officer.

Naim Keith Labaki, 43, reportedly fired a single shot in front of a residence at about 2 p.m. Saturday, according to a press release from the Evanston Police Department. He was gone when police arrived.

Labaki went into a sporting goods store on Front Street in Evanston shortly after that, where he demanded an additional weapon. When he was refused, Labaki got into his vehicle and pulled in front of the store. He fired a single shot into the building. No one was injured.

Roy Landes works at a liquor store across the street, and he saw the whole thing.

"I saw him pull up right here in this yellow section, and he jumped out," he said. "Left it running. Ran in Sport World. And I told everybody he's going to rob sports world. About 2 minutes later he runs out, jumps in the truck, slung the gun out: boom."

Ray Fruits works at Sports World, and he spoke with Labaki when he came in.

"He said, 'I need a fully automatic pistol and some ammunition,' kind of waving his gun at me," Fruits said. "He was pointing it directly at our face. He said, 'I need a fully automatic pistol now. The government and everybody is after me. Hurry up.'"

Personnel with Evanston Police Department and the Uinta County Sheriff’s Office found Labaki traveling south on Highway 150 at 2:39 p.m. The officers saw Labaki holding a rifle above the steering wheel, and the man pointed the rifle at one of the officers as they passed him going the opposite direction.

Labaki lost control of his vehicle while traveling at high speed where Highway 150 intersects with I-80, and he hit the sidewalk, which spun his vehicle in the opposite direction.

An unmarked police car struck the rear of Labaki’s vehicle and disabled it. When the vehicle stopped Labaki pointed the rifle at an officer. An officer with Evanston police and a deputy with the Uinta County Sheriff’s Office shot the suspect at that time, according to the press release.

Labaki was taken to the Evanston Regional Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

According to the press release, all officers directly involved in the shooting are on paid administrative leave, pending an investigation, which is standard policy.

Police said Labaki had a long criminal history, and friends of his told Fox 13 Labaki was a meth addict who was trying to get help but lost control.