The lawsuit alleges that Officers Matthew A. Watson and Matthew Williams violated police procedure by barricading Joshua "Omar" Johnson's vehicle at the Wells Fargo bank.

UPDATE 2/28/14: Surveillance video of the deadly shooting at the Ghent Wells Fargo has been turned over to the attorney of the man killed by a police officer.

'It's a very sensitive topic,' attorney John Cooper noted.

The city would not release the footage of Joshua Johnson's death, so Cooper filed a subpoena to obtain a copy of the dash-cam video, bank surveillance and a 911 call between a bank employee and police.

Cooper plans to have a police expert analyze the footage and show the video to Johnson's family.

'I'm hoping to reach a fair resolution for the family and police. There was definitely a wrong done, when an unarmed man was killed.'

*****

UPDATE 2/4/14: The family of a man who was killed by police at a bank drive-through in Ghent filed a $7 million lawsuit Tuesday morning against the two police officers involved.

The lawsuit alleges that Officers Matthew A. Watson and Matthew Williams violated police procedure by barricading Joshua 'Omar' Johnson's vehicle at the Wells Fargo bank.

Johnson drove in reverse and hit Williams, according to police reports. Watson opened fire, killing Johnson and hitting Williams in the leg, according to a report.

John Cooper, the Johnson's family lawyer, tells 13News Now the lawsuit was filed in an attempt to obtain police video of the incident.

Cooper says the lawsuit has not yet been served.

*****

NORFOLK (AP) -- Norfolk's prosecutor says the fatal police shooting of a man at bank was justified.

Media outlets report that Commonwealth's Attorney Greg Underwood sent a letter Friday to Police Chief Mike Goldsmith announcing his office's findings.

Underwood says Officer Matthew Watson was justified when he shot and killed 22-year-old Joshua 'Omar' Johnson after Johnson put his car in reverse and the vehicle hit Watson's partner.

The officers were responding to a report that someone tried to pass a bad check at a bank in the Ghent neighborhood.

The shooting occurred on May 20.