An emotional crowd gathered in the Germantown section of the city Wednesday night after police shot and killed a father of 8 children.

"He loved us, he took care of us!" said the man's stepdaughter, Tiara Bellpace, while in tears.

Police say the man, identified by family members as 35-year-old Belton "Amir" Lomax, was armed with a semi-automatic gun while on Locust Avenue and Devon Street. Police say he ran from responding officers before aiming his gun at them. Police also say his weapon was recovered from the scene.

"The fact is that several people called 911 saying that the person at that location was armed with a gun," said Philadelphia Police Chief Inspector Scott Small. "When the officers caught up to the male, the male pulled a gun from his waistband and pointed it at both officers. One officer then discharged his weapon, striking the suspect in the chest."

Nearby residents and family members claim he was unarmed however.

"They said he had a gun and he pulled a gun on them," said Shi Narmer, who says he witnessed the shooting. "He never had a gun on him. He didn't carry a gun on him. He was only trying to go to the store real quick before it closed."

Police officers are currently at the scene trying to contain the gathering crowd. Officials are also analyzing surveillance video taken from a nearby corner store.

The incident was one of two police-involved shootings in the city Wednesday night.

In the second incident, police were called to the 5600 block of Wyalusing Avenue Wednesday night after receiving a report of a man armed with a gun.

When they arrived, police say they found a gunman as well as another suspect who was with him.

The responding officers began to chase after the suspects, according to investigators. The suspect allegedly ran into an SUV and then pointed his gun at the officers. Officials say the officers opened fire, striking the suspect in the chest.

The man, who has not yet been identified, was taken to the hospital where he died from his injuries. Police say they recovered his weapon. Police also say they took the second suspect into custody but have not yet revealed his identity.