SACRAMENTO - The Sacramento County Coroner says the man who died following a violent struggle with Sacramento police officers did not die from injuries inflicted during the conflict.

SACRAMENTO, CA - The man who died following a violent struggle with Sacramento police officers has been identified as John Nat Torretti, 42.

The Sacramento County Coroner has determined Torretti did not die of injuries inflicted during the struggle.

The coroner said toxicology test results are pending.

According to the coroner, Torretti died at 6:28 p.m. Friday, about a half hour after police responded to a call from a woman working at the Metro PCS store at 8391 Folsom Boulevard who said she was frightened by a man in the store making unintelligible statements.

Shopping center security guard Jet Xiong approached Torretti before the first police officers arrived.

"I saw a caucasian male screaming at the top of his lungs," Xiong told News10.

Xiong said Torretti calmed down briefly.

"I asked him what's going on, why he's yelling. He said nothing, nothing. I said there's got to be something. That's why you're yelling," Xiong recalled.

Xiong saidthat when Torrettisaw the responding police officers, he became extremely agitated and barricaded himself in the cell phone store with the lone female employee.

A male police officer forced open the glass door and was immediately overpowered by Torretti, according to witnesses.

"The guy literally took the cop and body slammed him and was on top of him and telling him 'I'm going to "f" you up,'" said John Allanach, who had stopped with his wife at the shopping center for dinner.

A female police officer sprayed Torretti with pepper spray and beat him with a baton, but he refused to be handcuffed.

Michelle Allanach called for help on the police radio while John grabbed a baseball bat from the trunk of his car.

With the help of at least one other bystander, a backup police officer and off-duty district attorney were eventually able to handcuff Torretti.

A short time later officers noticed Torretti had become unresponsive and he was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.