A seven-person jury agreed unanimously Monday that a Yellowstone County Sheriff’s deputy was justified when last May he fatally shot a Worden bar owner who was suspected of murdering a young woman only hours earlier.

Deputy Martin Stuart committed justifiable non-criminal homicide when he shot Thomas Hilger, 49, in Worden on May 24, the jury determined.

The jurors deliberated for about 10 minutes before releasing their decision Monday afternoon, wrapping up a five-hour coroner’s inquest into the matter.

At the time of the shooting, Stuart and another deputy, Anthony Watson, were investigating a report that Hilger had killed his former girlfriend, 22-year-old Erica Yurian, and put her body in the back of his truck.

Yurian, dead from a single gunshot to the back of the head, was found shortly thereafter in the toolbox of Hilger’s blue Chevrolet pickup.

While no ruling was or could be made on whether Hilger murdered Yurian, Detective Shane Bancroft testified that Hilger was the only suspect in the case and that all evidence points to the bar owner having killed his former girlfriend.

At least half a dozen of Yurian’s family members were present for the inquest.

“All in all I think it turned out very well, you know, for the circumstances. I think it clarified a lot of things,” said Mark Yurian, Erica Yurian’s father.

“That poor man … ” he said of Stuart. “You know, it’s probably going to stick with him for the rest of his life because we’re not meant to go out and kill people.”

On the night of the shootings, the deputies had Hilger stopped in his truck for questioning near the 406 bar, which he owned. Video from a police cruiser’s dashboard camera presented at the inquest shows that at 4:02 a.m., Stuart asked Hilger to step out of his truck.

Hilger stepped out and fired one shot with a .357 revolver. A second later, Martin pulled his sidearm and fired two shots, both of which hit Hilger.

Neither deputy was injured.

Hilger was taken to St. Vincent Healthcare, where he bled to death about 12 hours later after refusing treatment, said forensic pathologist Dr. Thomas Bennett.

Dr. Stephen Ball, an anesthesiologist who talked with Hilger before he died, testified that the man was “fully alert” when he made the decision to forgo treatment.

Ball explained that, even with successful surgeries, Hilger would likely have been paralyzed from the neck or chest down and would have needed a tracheotomy and feeding tube, probably for the rest of his life.

Hilger’s autopsy revealed that he had two more gunshot wounds to his right shoulder, making a total of four gunshot wounds — but video of the shooting clearly shows that Stuart only shot at him twice.

Bancroft, pointing out that these additional wounds were “superficial,” speculated that Hilger had shot himself in a last-ditch attempt to alter the perceived course of events on the night of the shootings.

Bennett, the forensic pathologist, testified that the additional gunshot wounds were consistent with Hilger’s own gun and that he “absolutely” could have shot himself.

Testimony in the inquest started with Bryan Kuykendall, who called 911 on the night of the shootings to report that he had seen Hilger putting Yurian’s body into a truck behind the 406 bar.

Kuykendall said that he had known both Hilger and Yurian for years and was aware that they had dated in the past. “They fought a lot,” he said.

He said he went behind the bar and heard what sounded like a car door slamming several times. He peaked around a corner and saw Hilger, who “was just in his underwear,” put Yurian’s body into the back of a Chevrolet truck “like a bag of potatoes.”

Stuart testified that after responding to the 911 call, he spotted Hilger’s blue Chevrolet truck and pulled him over near Highway 312 and Road 15. He surveyed the truck and didn’t find anything suspicious at the time.

Stuart said Hilger was acting like a “normal guy,” didn’t appear intoxicated and seemed surprised when asked about Yurian.

While Stuart had Hilger pulled over, Watson went first to Yurian’s apartment, then to the 406 bar and then back to her apartment again, searching for anything that might point to Yurian’s whereabouts, the two deputies said.

Watson said he became suspicious when he found that Yurian’s truck had been wiped clean. He called Stuart and asked him to see if Hilger would drive back to the 406 for more questioning.

Hilger agreed. In an alley near the bar, Stuart inspected the back of Hilger’s truck again and this time spotted blood, he said.

Watson arrived at about 4 a.m., looked in the back of the truck and also saw “bloody water” in the truck bed.

Stuart asked Hilger to step out of the truck.

“When I saw the gun, I didn’t think I was going home,” Stuart said. “Me and a good friend almost died … scariest moment I’ve ever had.”

Detective Bancroft testified that one empty shell casing and five unspent rounds were found in the revolver.

Hilger crumpled to the ground after the shooting. One of the deputies threatened to shoot him again if he reached for his gun.

“I wish you would,” Hilger can be heard saying in the video.

He told the deputies that he had shot Yurian at about 10 p.m. after, he claimed, she had broken into his camper.

Bancroft said there is no way to know whether she did or didn’t break into the camper, but that there was no sign of that happening.

Instead, detectives found a large amount of blood in the trailer and a trail of blood leading out to where Hilger’s truck had been parked.

Yurian’s autopsy revealed that she had been shot at point-blank range with a “mid-range caliber” gun, which is consistent with the .357 revolver Hilger was carrying when Stuart shot him, Bancroft and Bennett both testified.

Just before the jury went into deliberation, Victoria Callendar, an attorney for the state, told them “all the evidence suggests that deputy Stuart did everything by the book and by his training.”

Since the shooting, Stuart has left the Sheriff’s Office and is working for a private company in Helena, he said. He declined to comment Monday.

Paulette Yurian, Erica Yurian’s mother, said the result of the inquest was “justice for him (Stuart) and a small amount of justice for my daughter.”