MT. MORRIS TOWNSHIP, MI -- Police have identified the man who was

as 26-year-old Gary Hatcher.

Hatcher was pulled over around 3:30 a.m. Saturday near Ridgeway Avenue and Montrose Street. After the trooper returned to his vehicle to check IDs, Hatcher allegedly fled the scene, police said.

A brief foot chase ensued and Hatcher was apprehended by the trooper. Hatcher allegedly wrestled for the trooper's weapon. The trooper then fired and killed Hatcher, police said.

His mother, Gertrude Hammond, said she believes Hatcher was trying to run away.

"(The trooper) didn't have to shoot him," she said.

Hammond said she felt her son was "treated like a dog." She described her son, a father of three with another child on the way, as "loving" and enjoyed playing basketball and football with friends and "shooting the breeze."

According to Hatcher's family, a vigil is planned for 7 p.m. Wednesday, May 29, at 213 E. Eldridge St. in Flint. His mother said donations can be made through Serenity Funeral Home.

"We are in need to bury him," she said. "We are trying to raise some money to bury him. The police department should bury him, if they can't bury him, then don't shoot him."

Hatcher was wanted on a felony warrant from the U.S. Marshals Office for weapons-related offenses and also had two misdemeanor warrants issued out of Flint.

According to court records, the federal warrant stemmed from a July 2012 arrest in the city of Flint on a charge of felon in possession of a firearm. The Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms agents and officers were conducting enforcement activity when they allegedly came across Hatcher on Summit near York.

He was walking in the street when there was a sidewalk, documents said. When the officer said "police" Hatcher allegedly looked down at his right hip, asked what he had done and took off running.

While running, it appeared Hatcher reached into his waistband. A gun was recovered and Hatcher later admitted to having it for protection. Because of 2005 and 2009 drug and larceny related offenses, he was ineligible to have a gun and was charged with felon in possession of a firearm.

In November, Hatcher pleaded guilty to the charge, but failed drug tests and did not show up for another test and a visit, so an arrest warrant was issued in January for non-compliance.

Police have not released information on the driver of the vehicle at this time. The incident remains under investigation.

According to Hatcher's family, a vigil is planned for 7 p.m. Wednesday at 213 E. Eldridge St. in Flint. His mother said donations can be made through Serenity Funeral Home.

"We are in need to bury him," she said. "We are trying to raise some money to bury him. The police department should bury him, if they can't bury him, then don't shoot him."