ST. LOUIS • A St. Louis jury has acquitted a former police officer of murder after his attorney argued that he shot another man in self-defense during a domestic dispute.

James Little, 36, had faced charges of first-degree murder, armed criminal action and two counts of child endangerment relative to the May 26, 2013, dispute that led to the death of William Dupree, 32.

Little, a onetime St. Louis police officer, was working at the time as a reserve police officer in Pagedale and security guard for Metro. Dupree was a St. Louis County corrections officer. Both were off-duty during the incident.

Authorities said Little shot Dupree three times in the head during an altercation in front of Dupree’s house on Farrar Avenue in the city’s Hyde Park neighborhood. Little was dropping off his child with the child’s mother, Dupree’s fiancee.

Little’s attorney, Scott Rosenblum, said Dupree’s fiancée had argued with Little over the weekend and it escalated when he arrived at the house. Rosenblum said Dupree, who was 6-foot-6 and weighed 340 pounds, began pushing Little, who was 5-foot-7 and 175 pounds, down some stairs and out toward the street.

Rosenblum said Little stopped at one point and checked to make sure his gun was secure, and feared for his life when Dupree kept advancing despite warnings that Little would have to shoot if the assault continued.

“Mr. Little was put in a position where he had to make a decision to defend himself ... and that’s what he did,” Rosenblum said.

Rosenblum said his client’s case was helped by the fact that the prosecution’s main witness, the fiancée, changed her story — and her demeanor — on the witness stand. Her two children, who witnessed part of the altercation, also testified.

Lauren Trager, a spokeswoman for the circuit attorney’s office, said: “A jury performs a very difficult service; we respect and appreciate the 12 people who applied careful consideration to this case. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of this victim and to all crime victims in our city.”

The murder trial started last week and continued into Tuesday. The St. Louis Circuit Court jury deliberated about two hours before returning not guilty verdicts on all counts. Little, who had been in jail awaiting trial, was released that evening.

In 2011, Little, then a Beverly Hills police officer, shot and killed a 16-year-old burglar who entered his home. Authorities called it “justifiable homicide” under the state’s castle doctrine, a self-defense law that allows people to use deadly force to protect themselves on their property.