NoPrimaryTagMatch Conn. man, 47, is dead following struggle with Mass. state troopers in Brighton

A Connecticut man is dead following a confrontation with two Massachusetts state troopers and state highway workers that began when the man was seen walking on the Massachusetts Turnpike in Brighton late Wednesday night, authorities said.

The man was Donald T. Moskites, 47, of Windsor, Conn., State Police said in a statement.

Moskites’s death is under investigation by State Police and Suffolk District Attorney Daniel F. Conley’s office.

According to State Police, the incident began around 10:10 p.m. Wednesday when a trooper saw Moskites walking on the ramp near Exit 19 on the eastbound side of the Pike in Brighton. The trooper “directed Mr. Moskites to come down off of the ramp,’’ State Police said.

Advertisement:

The Connecticut man walked down the ramp and into the Mass. Pike maintenance yard where troopers questioned him in an effort to see if he needed assistance.

“Mr. Moskites, who is described as a very large man, became violent and physically assaulted the troopers, biting one of them in forearm,’’ State Police said in the statement. Conley’s office said that when Moskites bit the trooper, he removed “a large chunk of flesh from his [the trooper’s] arm.’’

Moskites and the two troopers, along with Massachusetts Department of Transportation workers, engaged in an intense physical struggle during which a trooper dosed Moskites with pepper spray, State Police said.

But during the incident, Moskites’s heart stopped beating.

“At some point during this violent struggle, Mr. Moskites went into apparent cardiac arrest,’’ State Police said.

Troopers began performing CPR and Boston Emergency Medical Services crews transported him to nearby St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead, State Police said.

Moskites’s relatives were notified of his death by Connecticut State Police. Police in Windsor, Conn., “have had multiple interactions with Mr. Moskites,’’ according to State Police.

State Police are trying to determine why Moskites was in Boston.

Advertisement:

The names of the troopers are currently being withheld, State Police said. The two troopers were taken to St. Elizabeth’s, where they were both treated and released, State Police said.