SANTA ANA – A wrongful death lawsuit has been filed by the parents of the co-founder of a popular Irvine-based virtual reality company who was killed in a crosswalk last year after being struck by a vehicle reportedly fleeing police.

The civil action filed Tuesday in Orange County Superior Court names, among others, the three men being pursued by police, the city of Santa Ana, Orange County and the California Highway Patrol, and seeks unspecified damages.

Andrew Reisse, 33, of Santa Ana was hit May 30, 2013, by a Dodge Charger driven by Victor Sanchez, then 21, who Santa Ana police identified as a documented gang member. Reisse, known in the technological community as an innovator of virtual reality equipment, was in a crosswalk at MacArthur Boulevard and Flower Street when he was hit around midday.

Reisse was thrown about 30 feet and he died at the scene. The lawsuit, filed by Reisse’s parents, Robert and Dana Reisse, said their son was struck by one or more vehicles at the intersection.

Reisse’s death has caused the family “to suffer enormous damages and losses” and entitles them to bring the wrongful death lawsuit for losses, including medical bills and property damage, as well as punitive damages against various defendants.

The city and other defendants “breached their applicable duty of care” by, among other things, not falling back from the chase and not avoiding a role in Reisse’s death, the family contends in court documents.

They also allege a coverup of “governmental involvement” in the accident in violation of their and Reisse’s civil rights “by potentially preparing false reports, modifying traffic collision reports, ignoring favorable witness testimony,” and failing to comply with a public records request by not turning over a traffic collision report to the Reisses’ attorney.

Santa Ana spokesman Jose Gonzalez declined to comment, citing city policy not to comment on pending litigation.

A confrontation with police and the chase that led to Reisse’s death began when gang detectives, who were looking for someone in the area, saw two vehicles stopped in the middle of the street in the 1000 block of Rosewood Court, and a group of several men both inside and outside the cars, police said then.

Believing that some type of criminal activity was going on, the officers contacted one of the men, who police later identified as 26-year-old Gerardo Diego Ayala, Santa Ana police Cpl. Anthony Bertagna previously said. Police allege that Ayala got into a fight with the officers. He was shot by police during the altercation, police said, and later pronounced dead at a hospital.

Three other men, whom officers believed to be armed, then sped off in a white Dodge Charger with police in pursuit, Bertagna said. The Dodge hit a car at West Warner Avenue and South Parton Street, then continued south on South Flower Street.

After hitting Reisse, the vehicle collided with a truck, police said.

With the vehicle damaged, the three men got out and scattered. They were all taken into custody after one surrendered, another was subdued with a Taser and the third was bitten by a police dog after he reportedly did not comply with orders.

Sanchez, who police identified as the driver, is facing seven felonies, including murder, vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence, evading police and street terrorism. He pleaded not guilty to the charges in July, and has a pre-trial hearing scheduled for next month.

Jesse Segura, then 18, and Giovanni Bahena, then 19, were Sanchez’s two passengers, police said. Court records do not indicate that any charges were filed against the two men in connection to the police chase.

Reisse’s death shocked his colleagues, who described him as a pioneering software developer. He co-founded Oculus VR, which is working to make virtual reality as affordable as a smartphone or tablet, an effort that is being closely watched by video-game developers and executives.

Contact the writer: vjolly@ocregister.com, semery@ocregister.com