A 62-year-old man shot and killed by a deputy pointed a handgun at the deputy and refused commands to drop it, the Lewis and Clark County Sheriff Leo Dutton said Thursday.

The man, identified by the county coroner’s office as Douglas Francis Harper, 62, was wanted in connection with a Musselshell County house fire and expressed suicidal thoughts in the last few weeks, according to court documents.

A deputy arrived outside a residence on Moore Court, just off Canyon Ferry Road in the east Helena Valley, at about 5:23 p.m. to conduct a “welfare check” on Harper, Dutton said Thursday in an email.

Harper was sitting in his vehicle parked in the driveway and holding a handgun, according to Dutton.

“The male failed to comply with numerous commands to raise his hands and drop the gun,” Dutton wrote. “The male raised and directed the handgun towards the deputy. The deputy took defensive action and fired several rounds, killing the male.”

The name of the deputy was not released Thursday.

Many details remain unclear, including an explanation of exactly what Harper was doing on Moore Court or who called deputies.

A person answering a phone at the address authorities responded to said he was not at the location at the time of the incident and had no information.

Harper was facing an arson charge for allegedly burning down the Musselshell County house of a woman identified in court documents as his ex-girlfriend.

That fire, May 4 at a house south of Roundup, came to the attention of authorities when workers at the Signal Peak Mine reported seeing a red glow in the sky, according to a complaint filed in Musselshell County Justice Court by Musselshell County Attorney Kent Sipe.

Harper admitted to family members he started the fire, and told one person he was going to kill himself, according to the complaint.

Family members encouraged him in a phone call to turn himself in to authorities, according to the complaint.

Asked by a family member why he lit the fire, he said, “If I can’t have nothing, she can’t have nothing either,” according to the complaint.

The state Division of Criminal Investigation is assisting in the investigation of the shooting. The deputy has been placed on paid administrative leave.