Authorities Monday identified a young man shot and killed by San Diego police over the weekend in an incident that snarled traffic through Mission Bay Park.

Example video title will go here for this video

SAN DIEGO (CNS) - Authorities Monday identified a young man shot and killed by San Diego police over the weekend in an incident that snarled traffic through Mission Bay Park.

Giacomo Cargnoni, 21, of San Diego, was fatally shot in the area of 100 Sea World Drive Saturday morning, according to the San Diego County Medical Examiner's Office. He was pronounced dead at UCSD Medical Center at 10:15 a.m.

The chain of events that led to the shooting began about 9:15 a.m. when patrol officers were called to the 1700 block of Sunset Cliffs Boulevard to respond to a report that a man was threatening to shoot another man, according to San Diego police Lt. Jorge Duran. Witnesses reported seeing the suspect get into a silver Volkswagen sedan and drive north toward the San Diego River bridge.

Police spotted and stopped the vehicle north of the bridge, where Sea World Drive changes into Sunset Cliffs Boulevard, Duran said in a statement.

Officers told the man to put his hands up, but he ignored their commands and walked to the car's passenger side, reached between the seats and retrieved a brown and silver object, Duran said. The suspect then allegedly raised the object and pointed it at the officers.

One of the officers, an 11-year veteran of the San Diego Police Department, fired his duty weapon and struck the suspect, Duran said. Officers later located a gun in the suspect's vehicle, he added.

Traffic heading between Ocean Beach and Mission Bay Park was temporarily blocked, with northbound traffic diverted east onto Interstate 8. Traffic heading toward Ocean Beach was diverted onto Sports Arena Boulevard.

The interchange where West Mission Bay Drive, Ingraham Street, Sea World Drive, Sports Arena Boulevard and Sunset Cliffs Boulevard was heavily congested. But patrons were able to access the Sea World parking lots from Sea World Drive.