Alan Russo, seen with wife Sofia Russo, calls the $150,000 payout "blood money for Ariel." (Michael Graae/For New York Daily News)

In the end, the life of an innocent, precious 4-year-old girl was worth just $150,000 to the city.

That's all the family of Ariel Russo could pry from the city lawyers who used a loophole to turn a $40 million lawsuit into an insult, the Daily News has learned.

Advertisement

Ariel was killed in 2013 by an unlicensed driver fleeing from police.

City lawyers got a key component of the family's lawsuit tossed — a negligence claim tied to a four-minute delay in sending an ambulance to the Upper West Side crash scene.

Advertisement

Sofia Russo, the girl's mother, viewed the settlement with mixed emotions.

"We're not getting a lot of money," the mom told The News on Tuesday. "But that's not what matters."

Four-year-old Ariel Russo was hit and killed by Franklin Reyes in 2013. The Russo family sued the city for $40 million, citing negligence after a 4-minute delay sending an ambulance. (Courtesy Russo Family)

She said the family is focused on doing something positive with the money.

"My husband calls it 'Ariel's blood money,' " she said. "So we have to do something with it that is meaningful and beautiful and selfless."

Little Ariel was walking to school on June 4, 2013, with her grandmother Katia Gutierrez when they were mowed down on W. 97th St. near Amsterdam Ave. Gutierrez was critically injured.

Already mourning the death of their precious little girl, the Russo family lost in court because neither the victims, nor a blood relative called 911 after the wreck.

Under established case law, to support a negligence claim there must be direct contact between the injured party or a family member and a city representative in order to create a "special relationship" between them.

Scene at West 97th St. and Amsterdam Ave. after Ariel and grandmother Katia Gutierrez were hit by driver fleeing police. Ariel was killed and Gutierrez critically injured. (James Keivom/New York Daily News)

"The case law as it stands today is not fair to victims," said the Russo family's lawyer Sanford Rubenstein. "What is needed is a new statute to protect the public, particularly crime victims, doing away with the need for requiring direct contact."

Advertisement

The suit alleged the four-minute delay was based on either human error or a glitch in the new emergency dispatch system.

The suit also alleged cops used poor tactics in the car stop of Franklin Reyes, 17, then engaged in a high-speed pursuit near a school zone when he took off. Reyes struck Ariel and her grandmother.

Manhattan Supreme Court Justice Martin Schoenfeld called the ambulance delay "inexcusable and troubling," but was bound by the law to dismiss that negligence claim.

Ariel's parents will receive $62,500 and Gutierrez $87,500 from the city stemming from the police chase although there is no admission of wrongdoing.

Franklin Reyes appears at a bail hearing in Manhattan Supreme Court in November last year. (Jefferson Siegel/New York Daily News)

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Reyes' father had minimum liability insurance on the vehicle and the company will fork over $75,000, according to court papers. Last month Reyes pleaded guilty to manslaughter in Ariel's death.

A review by the city Department of Investigation concluded the ambulance delay was due to mishandling of 911 calls by dispatchers, and found no issues with the system's software.

Advertisement

"This matter involves a tragic incident and settling the case was in the city's best interest," the city Law Department said in a statement.

Experts say wrongful death claims involving children don't usually result in large payouts — unless there is prolonged suffering — because they are not the family breadwinners.

The family of Tamon Robinson, 27, who was struck and killed by a police car chasing him through a Brooklyn housing project for stealing paving stones, reached a $2 million settlement with the city.

Tabitha Mullings, who became a quadruple amputee due to sepsis infection after emergency workers did not take her to a hospital, won a nearly $18 million settlement. The city was ordered to pay $8.5 million. Brooklyn Hospital and two of its doctors were ordered to pay $9.4 million.

jmarzulli@nydailynews.com