The 80-year-old grandmother of a man who died at her Fallbrook home as deputies arrested him said Friday she watched as he was beaten.

“They killed him right in front of my recliner. They spilled his blood there. This is all over a traffic violation,” Rita Cameron said in a phone call.

Cameron’s grandson, Hugo Raymond “Ray” Barragan, 36, died following an encounter with deputies after he was chased to her home about 9:45 p.m. Wednesday night.

Advertisement

Barragan has a history of run-ins with law enforcement, and his record includes drug-related convictions and a charge for possessing a dirk or dagger.

Sheriff’s officials did not respond to requests for comment Friday.

Department officials have said it took four deputies to subdue Barragan. He was shocked with a Taser and bitten by a sheriff’s dog during the arrest.

Barragan had fled from a deputy who tried to pull him over for driving erratically in a car with a flat tire, officials said. The short car chase ended when Barragan ditched the car at the corner of Hillcrest Place and Hillcrest Lane and ran into his grandmother’s house.

Cameron said she was in her recliner watching TV when she saw her grandson drive by and then run to her door. Her husband opened it, and Barragan ran inside and slammed it shut.

Within seconds, deputies kicked it in, started punching Barragan and shocking him with a Taser, she said.

One deputy asked Cameron if she knew the man. She said she told them it was her grandson, screamed at them to stop and told her grandson to give up.

She said Barragan was not resisting arrest but was trying to cover his face from the blows.

“Ten punches to the head. The police dog chewed his ear off, bit him in the leg. It was so brutal. I thought I was going to have a heart attack,” she said.

After he was handcuffed, deputies carried him outside. As they did, “I heard him take his last breath. Three deep breaths and he was gone,” Cameron said.

Paramedics tried to revive him, but he died in her driveway.

“The world has to know how they are treating people,” the grandmother said.

His mother, Rachel Barragan, said that her son had been sober since before his release from prison last September.

“His past has nothing to do with the excessive force. They had no idea who he was. The car was registered in his wife’s name,” his mother said.

She said her son had been doing well, receiving medicine following his diagnosis last fall as bipolar and also with post-traumatic stress disorder due to his time in custody.

Ray Barragan, who also lived in Fallbrook, was married, and his wife is five months pregnant. He has two other children, as well as two young stepchildren.