Advertisement Jury reaches verdict in road-rage case against officer Joseph Walker exonerated in shooting death of another driver Share Copy Link Copy

An Anne Arundel County jury returned a not guilty verdict Wednesday in the fatal road-rage case against New Jersey Detective Joseph Walker.Mobile users tap here to watch videoThe jury agreed with the defense that Walker shot Joseph Harvey in self-defense. The jury deliberated some five-and-a-half hours.Walker's wife, family and friends all appeared to be kneeling in prayer in the courtroom bench before the jury declared its not guilty decision. Although waiting for this moment for more than a year, Walker declined to comment about anything, including his job status. His employer, the New Jersey Prosecutor's Office, suspended him without pay."We are extremely pleased that the jury was able to see this for what it was, a father who was forced to defend his family, including his wife, his children, who were under attack on the side of the road," defense attorney Charles Curlett Jr. said.Walker faced life in prison on first-degree murder charges for fatally shooting Harvey on the side of the highway near Millersville. The road-rage rampage started last June after Walker's minivan cut off Harvey and his passenger as they turned onto Route 3. The violence escalated from hurling racial slurs at Walker to throwing an energy drink can at their minivan, to running the Walkers off the road to confronting the detective on the shoulder.The jury agreed with the defense that Walker used his training as a police officer to diffuse the threat before shooting Harvey three times because he kept advancing."The prosecution's theory of the case that this was an act of murder, that this was motivated by aggression and anger was simply wrong," Curlett said.The prosecution said they're disappointed but respect the jury's decision. They stand by their case and concern that Walker is a dangerous man who hides behind his badge."It was a well-fought case, excellent case, but at the end of the day, I am concerned that Mr. Walker, as a law enforcement officer, is a very aggressive person, and in this case, he had many, many options. He could have gotten into his car, he could have called 911 but he chose to engage in a road rage incident with Joe Harvey," State's Attorney Anne Colt Leitess said.Prosecutors contend the shooting was a murderous act against an unarmed man by someone who cannot control his anger, and they allege it's not an isolated case. They planned to introduce examples of Walker's violent behavior during sentencing. In 2005, Walker faced accusations of threatening a man with a weapon. He allegedly used his badge and police authority to threaten a female neighbor. Internal affairs declared him untruthful about the neighbor incident."These are two prior incidents of aggressive, threatening behavior that he hides behind his badge and used his authority over," Leitess said. Walker didn't give anyone an opportunity to ask him about those incidents. His lawyers hustled him into a waiting SUV that quickly drove away.Wednesday morning, the jury had asked to review the testimony of one of the defense witnesses. On Tuesday afternoon, the jury asked the judge to clarify the definition of self-defense.