ALEX BOERNER/TREASURE COAST NEWSPAPERS Martin County Sheriff William Snyder speaks at a press conference to discuss the shooting at Scooter's Fun Food & Spirits Bar at 1:30 a.m. Friday morning in Hobe Sound. Richard Haston, 40, was shot and killed by Martin County sheriff's Sgt. James Warren Sr. following an argument in the parking lot behind the establishment. On the right is Florida Department of Law Enforcement Ft. Pierce field office resident agent in charge Michael Bartus. FDLE will be assisting in the investigation into the shooting. CQ William Snyder Richard Haston Sgt. James Warren Sr. Michael Bartus shot 060713

SHARE

By Will Greenlee of TCPalm

HOBE SOUND ? Sgt. James Warren Sr. had his pistol out and his hand on the front of Richard Haston's Jeep.

Warren, a 29-year Martin County sheriff's veteran, had just been in an altercation with Haston, and told him to stop.

Instead, Haston, 39, proceeded forward in the Jeep and struck Warren. Warren fired at least two shots from his .45 caliber handgun through the windshield, striking Haston in the upper torso. Haston, described as a "repeat violent offender," died at the scene.

That's what Martin County Sheriff William Snyder said appears to have happened about 1:30 a.m. Friday in the rear parking lot of Scooters Fun, Food & Spirits on Southeast Bridge Road.

"We are saddened that we had to take a life," Snyder said. "Our responsibility is to protect life, and it's never an easy thing to discharge our weapon at somebody, but at the end of the day my deputy is safe, he's home with his family and I'm satisfied that he did the right thing."

Snyder said his agency, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the state attorney's office are investigating. Warren, 49, is on administrative leave with pay, which Snyder said is standard, until prosecutors issue a final ruling.

Snyder said Warren, who sustained bruises, abrasions and an indentation in his leg, hasn't been interviewed. Much of the account comes from an 18-year-old woman in the vehicle with Haston.

Snyder said Warren is thought to have been on patrol when he noticed Haston's vehicle backed in a parking spot behind Scooters. Warren walked up and spoke to Haston.

"From what the witness says is that there was an argument back and forth, an exchange between the suspect Haston and between our sergeant," Snyder said. "Finally, the suspect got out of the car, and the witness, or the passenger in the car, says that a scuffle, she heard a fight, scuffle, she describes it as an altercation, she can't see exactly what's happening."

Haston ran south through the parking lot. Warren followed but couldn't catch him. Haston ran about 20 to 25 yards before doubling back and getting in his vehicle. Warren got to the vehicle, and ordered Haston to stop.

"The sergeant was in front of the car, from our statement from the witness it appears that the sergeant had his hand on the hood of the car, had his gun out, said, stop don't move," Snyder said.

Haston "ran forward and struck the ... sergeant." Warren fired at least two shots ? but not thought to be more ? from his .45 caliber pistol through the windshield, striking Haston in the upper torso.

Snyder said investigators have found no witnesses besides the 18-year-old woman.

Haston didn't have outstanding warrants. The vehicle wasn't stolen, and there didn't appear to be contraband in it. The 18-year-old woman wasn't intoxicated and also didn't have warrants.

Asked why Haston would take such actions, Snyder said, "Unfortunately, we don't have his statement, and we're not going to get it, so what was in his mind is never going to be known."

Snyder said Warren was struck with enough force that an indentation remained in his leg 90 minutes to two hours later.

Snyder said the 18-year-old woman had been with Haston for about four weeks. He couldn't describe the relationship.

"All she says at this point is they were going to get some take out," Snyder said. "Well, there's no take out there at 1:30 in the morning. So it's a little unclear why she thinks they were there."

A man at an address in Hobe Sound provided by the sheriff's office for Haston told reporters to leave.

A sheriff's official said the last fatal shooting involving a deputy happened in December 2010.

In that case, Sarah Gauvin, 30, was shot after investigators say she and Kevin Cyr fled a bank robbery. Cyr pointed a weapon at law enforcement officials.

Gauvin died after taking a 12-gauge shotgun blast to the head, while Cyr, who also was shot, survived and was arrested. Cyr in September 2011 was sentenced to a 90-year prison term in connection with the incidents.