San Angelo Police officers were dispatched to 4190 Ben Ficklin, apartment 15, in response to a 911 call regarding an assault being committed by Micah Key on his wife, Carla Key. The reporting party had been advised by a juvenile male who was in apartment 15 at the time and observed Micah Key hitting Carla Key.

Upon arrival, two San Angelo Police officers observe Micah Key standing in the doorway of apartment 15. The officers requested Micah Key to come downstairs, but Micah Key refused and told the officers to come to him.Once upstairs, the officers asked Micah Key to step outside. Micah Key refused and made an aggressive gesture towards the officers. Due to Micah Keys large size, the officers attempted to detain Micah key and place him in handcuffs to conduct an investigation into the complaint.

Micah Key refused to comply with instructions for handcuffing and began to actively resist. The officers had Micah Key against the wall inside the apartment, but did not have control of Micah Key. One officer announced he was going to deploy a taser, then deployed the probes into Micah Keys middle left front torso.

Micah Key rushed the tasing officer, grabbed him in a bear hug, and pinned the officer against the wall, knocking over a television and TV stand. Upon grabbing the tasing officer, the officers finger and hand were jammed and the tasing officer could not disengage the taser trigger, causing the taser to continue to fire for approximately 24 seconds. The second officer jumped on Micah Keys back and pulled backwards, causing the tasing officer, the second officer, and Micah Key to fall to the ground.

Micah Key continued to resist being handcuffed, and the tasing officer delivered a 5 second drive stun to the lower back of Micah Key. Both officers were able to handcuff Micah Keys right hand, and utilized an ASP baton to pry Micah Keys left arm from under his torso, and handcuff his left hand behind his back. The officers sat Micah Key up and he was still breathing, although labored. Officers immediately called for an ambulance. Micah Key became unresponsive and the officers removed the handcuffs and began CPR. Upon arrival, EMS personnel took over CPR duties and Micah key was transported to the hospital where he was later pronounced deceased.