It all happened in 29 seconds.

That’s how much time transpired from the moment Albemarle County police Officer James Larkin saw the woman’s feet dragged behind an SUV until the attacker charged and the officer opened fire. Six shots hit 21-year-old Gregory Allen Rosson Jr., five in the chest and one in the neck, killing him.

The account appears in a letter released Friday by Albemarle County Commonwealth’s Attorney Denise Lunsford detailing the June 8 encounter in Afton. The prosecutor ruled the shooting justified in the six-page letter, which she issued earlier in the week to police.

Larkin was presented with circumstances “which would have resulted in a reasonable fear of death or bodily injury,” Lunsford wrote. The prosecutor said the details in her letter were derived from state and county police investigations, as well as her own review of the case.

Responding to a 911 call placed by Rosson’s mother, Larkin confronted the Albemarle County man at 2:30 a.m. outside a mobile home in the 9000 block of Rockfish Gap Turnpike, the letter states. When Larkin ordered Rosson to release the gasping woman from a chokehold, he began punching her in the head with his free hand, according to the letter. Finally, Rosson dropped the woman and raced toward the officer, who fired from a range of about 10 feet.

The woman was bloodied, had an eye swollen shut and was treated for “lacerations, bleeding and ‘significant’ bruising to her head and neck” and “abrasions, scrapes and lacerations on her abdomen and back, and scrapes, bleeding and bruises to her arms and legs,” the letter states.

She told police she fell unconscious, “came to” and “begged Rosson to stop.” She said Larkin “saved [her] life and his that night,” the letter states.

Lunsford’s letter describes the woman as Rosson’s girlfriend. The woman called Rosson’s mother, saying he was nearby, then screamed before the call was cut off, the letter states. When Denise Rosson called back, her son answered, telling her he was choking his girlfriend and would choke his mother next, according to the letter. Denise Rosson called 911 at 2:15 a.m.

As Larkin responded to the call, dispatchers advised him that Gregory Rosson had a rifle in his car during an earlier encounter with county police and “had become hostile with officers” June 3. Rosson was scheduled to appear in court June 11 on a charge of assaulting a police officer.

After emerging from his cruiser with his weapon drawn, Larkin “heard the muffled sound of a woman’s voice coming from the rear of the SUV,” Lunsford’s letter states.

When Rosson charged, Larkin said, it was “as though Rosson were coming to kill him,” the letter states. Larkin fired, “aiming high because he was aware that the woman was lying on the ground behind Rosson and he wanted to avoid hitting her,” the letter states.

Larkin then called for an ambulance. Within seven minutes of the shooting, two other county officers arrived.

An autopsy showed Rosson’s wounds “involved injuries to the heart, esophagus and lungs,” the letter states. Rosson’s blood-alcohol content was between 0.17 and 0.18 percent at the time of his death. The legal limit to drive in Virginia is 0.08 percent.

A woman who lives with her husband at the mobile home where the shooting took place said in June that her daughter and Rosson had been in a relationship.

The woman's mother said she was "heartbroken about what happened to [Rosson]" and she thought of him like a son.

Rosson's relatives said shortly after the shooting that a mental health expert at the Albemarle-Charlottesville Regional Jail had diagnosed Rosson with a dissociative identity disorder.

"He had his troubles," Rosson's sister, Lauren Moore, said. "Sometimes, he would black out and couldn't remember what had happened, but he wasn't dangerous. He had a big heart and would help you any way he could."

In a letter “to the Citizens of Albemarle County,” posted on the county police Facebook page, Albemarle police chief Col. Steve Sellers expressed sorrow over the “tragic event.”

“To the family and friends of Gregory A. Rosson Jr., I am deeply sorry for your loss,” the chief wrote. “To the officer involved … I am deeply sorry for the emotional scars you will carry for the rest of your life … To the woman and the primary victim of this horrible crime, we are deeply sorry that we couldn’t get there sooner.”