Vallejo police shot and mortally wounded a man Saturday afternoon who allegedly shot his wife to death in an alley. The suspect later died at a hospital, police said.

Vallejo police spokesman Lt. Lee Horton said the woman, Nadia Duwebi, 49, was apparently shot by her husband, Mohammed Naas, 57, about 1:30 p.m. in Quincy Alley in the 800 block of Butte Street near Tennessee Street.

Witnesses said they heard multiple shots ring out and police were called.

Horton said a responding officer arrived about two minutes later and was directed by witnesses to the armed man and the woman, who was lying in the alley, behind an office building.

Naas was standing behind a car parked behind the business, Cyber Computer, which he owned. As the officer approached, Naas pointed the gun at him, Horton said.

The officer then fired at the man in self-defense, Horton added.

Paramedics and other officers arrived on the scene, where Duwebi was pronounced dead.

Naas later died at Kaiser Permanente Vallejo Medical Center where he was transported for treatment of his wounds.

It was not immediately clear if there had been an argument between the couple before the shooting.

No other information was released as of Saturday night.

A black handgun was seen on the ground at the scene while police conducted their investigation.

The officer-involved shooting incident will be jointly investigated by the Solano County District Attorney”s Office and the Vallejo Police Department, per protocol. The involved officer has also been placed on administrative leave.

The deaths marked Vallejo”s 11th and 12th homicides of 2013, including the three fatal officer-involved shootings.

Saturday was Vallejo”s second fatal officer-involved shooting in four days. On Tuesday, Timothy John Walker, 40, was killed in a confrontation on a boat at the Vallejo waterfront. Walker allegedly pointed a modified flare gun at an officer about an hour after police responded to a call about a loud argument at the scene.

The month began with multiple shootings at a party in the 100 block of Linfield Drive that ended with two dead, and two others wounded. The fatal victims” identifications have not been released by the police pending notification of the next of kin.