Chris Burrell

The family of Wilfredo Justiniano, Jr., a mentally-ill man shot and killed last June by a state trooper in Quincy, is calling for witnesses to the shooting incident to contact their lawyer.

In a statement released Friday by Boston lawyer Ilyas Rona, the Justiniano family said they were disappointed by Norfolk County District Attorney Michael Morrissey’s finding on Thursday that the fatal shooting of Justiniano was justified.

“We find the DA’s conclusion that there is ‘no room for doubt’ an unfortunately confident statement,” the family’s statement said. “This tragedy should not be used as a means to justify the use of deadly force against a mentally-ill man, but as an opportunity to ensure that police are equipped to prevent such tragedies in the first place. We welcome anyone with information that could help us achieve this goal to come forward.”

The family has made no decision about filing a lawsuit, Rona said Friday.

Morrissey’s investigation into the shooting concluded that Justiniano, a 41-year-old man from New Bedford, had threatened to kill the state trooper and was gripping a pen as he lunged at the trooper.

The trooper from the Milton barracks fired twice, hitting Justiniano in the wrist and in the chest. He died later at Milton Hospital.

“Our investigation supports the trooper’s statements that he attempted to reason with Mr. Justiniano, tried to calm him and attempted to de-esaclate the situation,” said Morrissey in his report. ”

When those efforts were not successful, he twice deployed non-lethal means to attempt to stop a man advancing on him while promising to kill him.”

Advocates for the mentally ill told The Patriot Ledger that police need more training on how to deal with the people in mental crisis to avoid tragic and violent endings. “There are so many people that police mishandle or shoot because the (people) have mental illness,” said Laurie Martinelli, director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, Massachusetts, based in Woburn.

READ MORE about this issue.