FREMONT — Officers shot and killed a 53-year-old Fremont man Sunday morning who they said carried out an armed rampage in the home he shares with his family.

The man, who has not been identified, reportedly prompted his mother to call 911 about 6:45 a.m., nearly four hours after he began throwing picture frames, turning furniture upside down, and throwing a piece of furniture out the window of their home in the 400 block of Ohlones Street, Fremont police spokeswoman Geneva Bosques said.

The man’s mother, who is in her 80s, told police that her son, armed with a knife, was stabbing doors, and that she and two other family members, including the man’s father, were inside the home during the rampage, which had been escalating since shortly after 3 a.m.

The family reported to police that the effectiveness of the man’s medication seemed to be “wearing off,” and that they had seen a marked change in his behavior since the Friday before the incident. By Sunday morning at 3 a.m., the man’s mother awoke to a large crashing sound, and found the man tearing through the home with a 10- to 12-inch knife described by one officer as “sword-like.”

Officers arrived and heard yelling and “chanting” sounds coming from the inside of the home, and called out to the man’s mother and brother to evacuate them, Bosques said. Each of them came out of the house clutching their arms and shoulders, and officers discovered they had been stabbed by the suspect before officers arrived.

According to Bosques, the man’s father was unable to leave his bed because of a medical condition, and officers called out to the suspect multiple times to come out of the home to ensure the safety of the elderly man.

When officers went inside the house to search of the man’s father, they found themselves face-to-face with the suspect inside his 10-by-10 bedroom, Bosques said. The man was sitting on his bed with various collectors knives scattered across it, including the knife with the footlong blade he had reportedly used to stab two doors and injure his mother and brother.

Three officers inside the bedroom ordered the man to disarm himself and put his hands up, which the man ignored and continued threatening officers, Bosques said. As he sat a couple feet from one officer, the man reached for the large knife he stabbed his family with and two officers fired their weapons at the man while the third deployed a Taser.

Officers performed CPR on the man until Fremont fire crews arrived to render medical aid, but he was pronounced dead at the scene, Bosques said. The man’s mother and brother were bandaged at the scene, but refused to be taken to the hospital.

The officers involved are being interviewed about the incident, and were placed on paid administrative leave, Bosques said. The officers involved each have seven years of service with the Fremont Police Department, and each previously worked for other law enforcement agencies.

The Alameda County District Attorney’s Office is conducting a joint investigation with Fremont police detectives, Bosques said.

The incident marks the first officer-involved shooting in Fremont since November 2012, when 37-year-old Dejuan Eaton was shot and killed by officers as he ran naked from his estranged wife’s home with a knife in hand.

Authorities did not say whether the man killed Sunday had a criminal history, but Bosques said that over the past two years police have responded to about a half dozen calls involving the man’s erratic behavior. In a recent visit to the home, police confiscated 15-20 knives, several of which the man had just purchased.

Contact Erin Ivie at eivie@bayareanewsgroup.com. Follow her at Twitter.com/erin_ivie.