Updated with names of the victims and new details



A motorcyclist allegedly speeding away from a California Highway Patrol officer Monday crashed into a minivan in Long Beach, killing himself and the 65-year-old woman driving the other vehicle, authorities said.



The motorcyclist had been drive at up to 100 m.p.h. and was identified as Frank Aldana Escalante, 23, of Lakewood. The woman was identified as Marianne Krone, 65, of La Palma, said Lt. Joe Bale of the L.A. Coroner's Office.



About 6:05 a.m., a CHP officer saw the motorcyclist traveling at more than 100 mph on the southbound San Gabriel River (605) Freeway and tried to pull him over, Posada said. However, the motorcyclist kept going and exited on Spring Street, and the officer pursued him briefly but discontinued the chase, Posada said.



A short time later, the fatal collision occurred, she said. The motorcycle burst into flames. It was not clear how fast the motorcycle was going when it hit a minivan, but it was going fast enough that the van flipped over several times. The intersection was closed while an investigation was conducted into the crash. The woman was alone in the minivan, Posada said.



The crash was reported about 6:10 a.m. at Wardlow Road and Norwalk Boulevard, the California Highway Patrol reported. The man, in his 20s, and the woman, in her 60s, died at the scene, said CHP Officer Monica Posada.



At about 6:05 a.m., a CHP officer saw the motorcyclist traveling at a ``high speed'' on the southbound San Gabriel River (605) Freeway and tried to pull him over, Posada said. However, the motorcyclist kept going and exited on Spring Street, and the officer pursued him briefly but discontinued the chase, Posada said.



A short time later, the fatal collision occurred at Norwalk Boulevard and Wardlow Road, she said. The intersection was closed while an investigation was conducted into the crash. The woman was alone in the minivan, Posada said.

-City News Service



Story earlier this morning:A man and a woman were killed today in a crash involving a motorcycle and another vehicle in Long Beach, authorities said.



The crash was reported about 6:10 a.m. at Wardlow Road and Norwalk Boulevard, the California Highway Patrol reported. A man in his 30s and a woman in her 60s died in the cash, the CHP reported.



At least one victim was riding on the motorcycle, according to reports from the scene. The intersection was closed while an investigation was conducted into the crash.