Scott J. Croteau, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

WORCESTER – Cheryl Polselli recalled cupping her sister's head, watching as Lorri J. "Lulu" Bauckman's life slowly dissipated.

Ms. Bauckman was pulling leaves from her yard at 148 Lincoln St. on Nov. 26, 2011, with her sister, Ms. Polselli, when she began to cross the road about 4:45 p.m. A car driven by Joseph Sherer, 52, of 293 Nicholas Ave., hit Ms. Bauckman, fatally injuring her.

"The impact blew her shoes right off," Ms. Polselli said Tuesday in Central District Court as Mr. Sherer pleaded guilty to motor vehicle homicide in the case.

"I miss my sister. She was my only sister," Ms. Polselli said. "We just had a good time, a good relationship. I miss her to death."

Mr. Sherer stood quietly as Ms. Polselli, trembling at times, recalled the moments leading up to the accident. She told the court she and her sister were almost done moving the leaves at the time of the crash. As Ms. Bauckman, 47, crossed Lincoln Street, Ms. Polselli saw a car hit her and throw her into the air.

"I was watching her, and I was watching her face," Ms. Polselli said. "Then she turned, and her eyes were like this."

At that moment, Ms. Polselli opened her eyes wide to show her sister's expression.

As Ms. Bauckman landed in a gutter, her sister rushed to her side.

"I kept screaming, 'she's gonna die, she's gonna die,' " Ms. Polselli said.

Mr. Sherer was sentenced to two years of supervised release after he pleaded guilty to motor vehicle homicide. His license was then suspended for 15 years by the judge.

Through his lawyer, Walter A. Rojcewicz Jr., Mr. Sherer apologized for what happened that day. Mr. Sherer lives with the tragic event every day, his lawyer said.

Charges of speeding and failure to slow were filed after Mr. Sherer was found responsible. A charge of negligent driving was dismissed.

According to court records, Mr. Sherer was driving his 2004 Chevrolet Malibu southbound about 4:45 p.m. Nov. 26, 2011, when Ms. Bauckman moved leaves and debris from her yard at 148 Lincoln St. to the other side of the road.

Authorities said Mr. Sherer struck Ms. Bauckman as she walked from the northbound lane into the southbound lane. Ms. Bauckman was taken to UMass Memorial Medical Center - University Campus and pronounced dead.

Investigators found Mr. Sherer was driving 43 miles per hour in the 30-mph area at the time of the crash, Assistant District Attorney Joseph A. Simmons said. They found inconsistencies with the story Mr. Sherer gave police. He stayed at the scene of the crash until police arrived.

Contact Scott J. Croteau at scroteau@telegram.com. Follow him on Twitter @ScottCroteauTG