Police recovered this weapon from under the car where they also found the robbery suspect hiding. (NYPD)

UPDATE: Police have identified the deceased suspect, accused of attempting to rob another man and shooting at police officers, as Thomas Robinson, 50, also known as Thomas Woods.

Robinson was killed when an officer returned fire, shooting him once in the torso. He survived the shot and was found hiding under a car, but was pronounced dead on arrival when he was taken to the hospital, cops said.

According to police records, Robinson has a record of eight arrests between 1979 and 1990, including two robberies involving a firearm in 1981 and 1982, and one for attempted rape in 1983.

Police say he first served time in jail in 1980, then again from 1983 to 1987, and most recently from 1992 to 2012, when he was paroled about nine months ago. He is on parole for life due to a conviction for robbery in the second degree.

Police identified the alleged robbery victim as 28-year-old Manny Vargas, nicknamed “Slim,” who they say was struggling with Robinson over a gun.

Vargas has four arrests on his record, included Criminal Possession of a Controlled Substance in 2005 and 2013, just two months ago. Last month he was arrested on charges of tampering with physical evidence. He served about eight months in jail from 2005 to 2006.

Metro’s original story is below.

An NYPD officer shot and killed a robbery suspect who fired at police officers in Brooklyn early Wednesday morning, police said.

The police officers were driving on Hinsdale Street in the East New York section of Brooklyn at about 1 a.m. when a livery cab driver alerted them to a robbery in progress on Hinsdale Street near Dumont Avenue.

As the officers exited their vehicle, they saw the suspect and the victim struggling over a gun. The victim, 28, shouted to the officers for help. The suspect, 50, turned towards the cops and fired one round at them. One of the officers fired back, discharging one round from his service weapon and striking the suspect in the torso, police said.

The suspect attempted to flee, but officers found him hiding under a car on Dumont Avenue. A .357 Smith and Wesson revolver was also recovered from underneath the car.

The suspect was taken to Brookdale Hospital where he was pronounced dead. The police officer was treated for ringing in the ear, and the robbery victim suffered cuts and bruises from the struggle with the suspect, police said.