Tiffney Taylor's still in disbelief and shock that her husband is dead, shot by police who said he wouldn't drop his shotgun following a disturbance with another man.

Police won't talk about the case, citing the investigation, nor will they release details or identify the man involved in the June 17 disturbance that prompted her husband, Cedric Howard, 34, to emerge from a Northeast Side home in the 5200 block of Gawain with a shotgun.

We got a call for a disturbance with a firearm, Police Department spokesman Sgt. Javier Salazar said. Officers were there to respond to someone who was in obvious distress.

Salazar said Thursday there were no new developments in the case and declined to elaborate further on what the two men were doing before officers arrived.

I just want answers, she said. My husband wouldn't do something like that.

An incident report states that police answered a disturbance call involving two men about 3 a.m. and ordered the pair inside to open the door. The four responding officers could hear one man telling the other to put the gun down.

Moments later, police said, Howard emerged from the home holding a shotgun.

The officers, in fear for their lives, opened fire on Howard, killing him on the front porch, Salazar said.

The officers who fired their service weapons were five-year veterans Nicholas Arreola and Leroy Diaz and seven-year veteran Peter Donoughue.

All three were placed on administrative duty, part of the SAPD's standard procedure.

Police told me he came out holding a gun, Taylor said. That's not my husband. My husband wouldn't do something like that.

Police have given no indication as to what the men argued about and why the officers felt threatened by Howard.

The second man was grazed in the right foot by a bullet. It's not clear whether he was wounded before or after police arrived, though Salazar said the day of the shooting that detectives believe the shotgun may have been fired at least twice before officers got there.

In an attempt to get answers, Taylor has tried in vain to reach the man, whom she said has known her husband for about a year.

Police spokeswoman Sandy Gutierrez declined to release his name, describing him as a witness to the confrontation, and Taylor said she only knows the man's first name.

Hours before the shooting, Taylor said Howard had been watching the Spurs and the Miami Heat in Game 5 of the NBA Finals with his 13-year-old son while spending Father's Day together.

Howard told his wife he was going out to get some snacks for the boy and told her he'd stop at his friend's house for about an hour, Taylor said. She grew worried when he didn't come home early June 17, so she drove to the friend's duplex home.

When she saw crime tape wrapped around the front porch, Taylor thought the men simply had been arrested. But after more than a day of getting conflicting information from friends and neighbors, officials finally told her that Howard had been fatally shot by police.

Howard has a criminal history that includes convictions for drug possession and an evading arrest charge from 2000 that was dismissed.

His family said that though he's been in trouble with the law, he'd never threaten police with a gun. Taylor's father, Dornell Thompson, said his son-in-law didn't even own a firearm.

We want to know why that guy can't come here and explain, shed some kind of light on this, Thompson said. They (are) supposed to be friends.