A nearly seven-hour multi-agency search for a 36-year-old Caldwell man who'd reportedly taken a woman against her will concluded when the man killed himself moments after his hostage safely escaped his moving vehicle.

Burleson County Sheriff Dale Stroud said authorities were notified shortly after 5 p.m. Tuesday that a 20-year-old woman was in her vehicle on County Road 205 near Caldwell when she was forced by Ricardo Castaneda, a man she'd dated, into his black Chevy pickup.

The woman managed to send family members a text about the incident while in the truck, at which point the girl's father showed up at the sheriff's office, Stroud said.

With the help of Brazos County Sheriff's deputies, the Texas Department of Public Safety, a Texas Ranger and several Burleson County constable deputies, a search for Castaneda and the woman began.

After receiving reports that Castaneda was near an oil field off F.M. 50 in Brazos County, a DPS helicopter was sent over the area in search of the black pickup, Stroud said.

However, he said, the helicopter search efforts were not successful in locating the truck and it was a DPS trooper who first spotted Castaneda off F.M. 50 at about 9:45 p.m.

Stroud said Castaneda refused to pull over and told dispatchers he wasn't going to stop until he dropped the woman off at her home and that he "had nothing to lose."

Castaneda headed back to F.M. 205, which is where authorities had set up a spike strip to prevent him from driving any further, according to the sheriff.

Castaneda drove over the spikes, causing his vehicle to slow as his tires deflated, Stroud said.

At that point, the woman jumped out of the moving truck and was secured by a deputy as Castaneda used a rifle to shoot and kill himself.

When asked how quickly Castaneda killed himself after the woman bailed from the truck, Stroud said "it happened almost simultaneously."

While Stroud said he was glad the woman escaped uninjured, he was saddened the incident had to end with someone dead.

"Of course your first obligation is to get the victim to safety, then to recover anyone else involved," he said. "We would have liked to have been able to prevent the loss of life."

Stroud said it wasn't clear if Castaneda threatened the woman with the rifle when forcing her into his pickup, but he did say she'd indicated "she felt afraid for her life."

At some point during the search, Stroud said, authorities were notified that Castaneda was armed, which heightened their concern for the woman.

"My understanding is she was trying to break up with him," he said. "I think he was intent on keeping the relationship going."

According to the man's Facebook page, Castaneda had at least two children and graduated from Snook High School.

"I'm sad to say that it even happened," Stroud said.

The sheriff said an autopsy was being performed on Castaneda in Austin.

Funeral arrangements were still pending as of Wednesday.