Oklahoma City police have identified a man they say was fatally shot by an officer Wednesday.According to investigators, Sgt. Daniel Godsil, a 10 year patrol veteran of the police force, was the first officer to respond to a call about a possible disturbance involving four neighbors in the 2400 block of Northeast 26th Street about 4:30 p.m. Godsil was approached my an armed man who, authorities said, leveled a rifle and began firing at the officer from the street several yards away.The officer returned fire and struck the suspect, identified as Kenneth Dewayne Cooper, 45, police said. Another officer took Cooper into custody in the 2300 block of Northeast 26th Street after he attempted to flee, according to investigators.Cooper was taken to a local hospital, but died in transit.Several people witnessed the incident, which is under investigation by the OCPD Homicide Unit and the Office of Internal Affairs, officers said. Godsil was placed on paid administrative leave, which is customary during an officer-involved shooting investigation.The Oklahoma County District Attorney will review the investigation upon its conclusion.Stay with KOCO.com for the latest information on breaking news.Crime footer

Oklahoma City police have identified a man they say was fatally shot by an officer Wednesday.

According to investigators, Sgt. Daniel Godsil, a 10 year patrol veteran of the police force, was the first officer to respond to a call about a possible disturbance involving four neighbors in the 2400 block of Northeast 26th Street about 4:30 p.m. Godsil was approached my an armed man who, authorities said, leveled a rifle and began firing at the officer from the street several yards away.

Advertisement

The officer returned fire and struck the suspect, identified as Kenneth Dewayne Cooper, 45, police said. Another officer took Cooper into custody in the 2300 block of Northeast 26th Street after he attempted to flee, according to investigators.

Cooper was taken to a local hospital, but died in transit.

Several people witnessed the incident, which is under investigation by the OCPD Homicide Unit and the Office of Internal Affairs, officers said. Godsil was placed on paid administrative leave, which is customary during an officer-involved shooting investigation.

The Oklahoma County District Attorney will review the investigation upon its conclusion.

Stay with KOCO.com for the latest information on breaking news.