By Jim Balloch

The Knoxville News-Sentinel

KNOX COUNTY, Tenn. — Officers involved in a standoff and fatal shooting with a 21-year-old man Thursday in a West Knox County mobile home fired an estimated 47 rounds, according to the Knox County Sheriff's Office.

An undetermined number of rounds struck Jordan R. Camp, who died in the mobile home in the Concord Mobile Home Park at 834 Canton Hollow Road. Camp had pointed a Ruger rifle at officers from a bedroom inside the mobile home, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Knox County Sheriff's Office Image

The shoot-out took place in the home of John Casey, a friend of Camp's, where Camp had gone after fleeing authorities.

According to the Sheriff's Office, Sgt. Mike Ledbetter, 41, may have been struck Thursday afternoon during the shooting "by a ricocheting round with the origin yet to be determined. According to the surgeon, the numerous particles in the officer's leg are so small that there may be nothing to recover."

Ledbetter, who was recovering today in intensive care following surgery at University of Tennessee Medical Center, is a patrol sergeant and a member of the department's SWAT team. He has been with the department since 1995 and is a former Officer of the Month.

Records released today also show Camp slashed a motorist on Sunday night during a traffic accident near the mobile home park and had been in a fight in November with Casey in the same mobile home where he died.

Driver Wesley Gunn told county authorities he was involved in a minor collision at the intersection of Harbour View and Woody roads with Camp, whom he knew. When he got out to speak with Camp, he reported, Camp brandished a large hunting knife and slashed him on the hand. Camp fled and was believed to have been staying with a friend in Louisville, Tenn.

Camp lived in the Harbour View subdivision area, not far from Canton Hollow Road.

Knox County authorities were actively looking for Camp on Thursday as a result of the reported assault. He also was on probation for a prior offense.

Camp was spotted by an officer about 1 p.m. Thursday at the entrance to the mobile home park on Canton Hollow Road, according to the Sheriff's Office.

He fled on foot to some woods in the back of the park, and officers searching with a helicopter and K-9 were unable to locate him.

Camp was found in the trailer at lot 25 a short time later and barricaded himself in a back bedroom, according the Sheriff's Office.

The Sheriff's Office SWAT and Negotiation teams went to the scene. The SWAT team entered the trailer, securing the kitchen area while Camp remained barricaded in the bedroom.

One resident in the mobile home park, who asked not to be identified, said authorities attempted to talk to the man through the closed door for about an hour before the gunfire erupted. The resident said he also witnessed authorities pull the homeowner outside before the SWAT team's arrival.

Camp told negotiators he had guns and was going to kill himself, according to the Sheriff's Office. He later threatened to shoot officers.

He pointed a firearm out of a bedroom door about 4 p.m. and fired at officers, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Gunfire was exchanged, Ledbetter was wounded and Camp was killed.

Camp had had several brushes with the law.

On Nov. 5, a deputy was called to Casey's home in the mobile home park.

Camp had been involved in a fight with John Casey, knocking him to the floor and hitting him with his fists, according to a report.

Camp was spotted on foot nearby in the View Harbour subdivision. According to Deputy Michael McLain, Camp smelled of alcohol, tried to outrun him and "even took swings at me."

Camp's arrest record includes incidents of assault, public intoxication, resisting arrest, and driving while privilege suspended.

In May, authorities were called to the same mobile home park when two teenage brothers there claimed to have been repeatedly abused by their stepmother.

Copyright 2013 the Knoxville News-Sentinel