When deputies in Pickens County responded to a disturbance beside a roadway, they found Randall Dale Scruggs high on meth. He was shouting, "Don't let them hurt me" while sitting in a patch of brush.

Deputies cuffed him and put him on the ground. One deputy pressed his knees into the man's thighs and back as his mother pleaded with deputies to show mercy.

His body became rigid. He began to vomit and seize. He lost consciousness. Ultimately, he died.

That's how a new lawsuit filed against the Pickens County Sheriff's Office reads when describing the events that led to Scruggs' death.

More:SLED investigating Easley man's death in Pickens County Sheriff's Office custody

The wrongful death lawsuit filed in federal court this month on behalf of Scruggs' estate alleges that Pickens County deputies used excessive force when apprehending the man on May 28, 2017.

The Sheriff's Office is denying the allegations and stating that the actions of the deputies, despite a fatal outcome, were lawful and in line with policy.

The complaint alleges negligence, recklessness and negligent supervision. Gina Scruggs, Randall's wife, is seeking damages in an amount to be determined by a jury.

Scruggs, 42, of Easley, died of “aspiration of Hemorrhagic Gastric contents from thoracic/abdominal compression," according to Pickens County Coroner Kandy Kelly. Kelley ruled the death a homicide, telling The Greenville News and Independent Mail that the injuries were caused by “compression during (an) altercation” with deputies during a roadside arrest.

Scruggs was married and had one son, according to his obituary.

His mother called 911 while he was beside State 11 near Sunset in Pickens County.

"Ms. Waldrop quickly became aware that her son's life and safety were in danger at the hands of the ruthless officers, and she saw that the officers were using excessive force," the lawsuit states. "Distraught, as any mother would be, Ms. Waldrop yelled and pled with the ruthless officers for mercy."

Pickens County Sheriff Rick Clark said Randall Scruggs had been resisting arrest.

"Attempts to calm Mr. Scruggs never ceased throughout the event, as confirmed by the witnesses," Clark said. "Mr. Scruggs repeatedly attempted to get up from a seated position on the ground and run from the deputies."

Gina Scruggs is being represented by attorney Joshua Hawkins, who declined to comment outside of what's stated in the suit.

In the Sheriff's Office response to the lawsuit, the response defends the deputies' actions calling Scruggs' death an "unavoidable accident."

"The officers had to restrain the decedent and handcuff him after the decedent attempted to jump up again near the highway out of fear he would harm himself or others due to gross intoxication," the Sheriff's Office response states.

WATCHDOG JOURNALISM Our investigative reporters devote hours, days and months for stories of interest to the public. Local stories such as this require resources. Please help by becoming a digital subscriber.

Pickens County Chief Deputy Creed Hashe said the State Law Enforcement Division was called in to investigate and at the conclusion of that investigation, the 13th Circuit Solicitor's Office found no evidence to support criminal wrongdoing on behalf of the deputies.

A review of the incident was also done internally, Hashe said, and staff found that the deputies' actions were in accordance with policy.

"Everything was found to be in accordance with procedures here," Hashe said. "Since there, there's been no further action on our part."

Hashe said Randall Scruggs was initially placed in handcuffs in investigative detention for his own safety.

Daniel J. Gross covers public safety and breaking news for The Greenville News. Reach him at dgross@greenvillenews.com or on Twitter @danieljgross.