On 6/21/2013 at approximately 12:51 a.m., officers with the Round Rock Police Department in Round Rock, Texas were dispatched to 2501 Louis Henna Blvd. (Montelana Apartments) in reference to a welfare concern. It was reported to dispatch a subject, later identified as Tadarion Lawson had assaulted someone and was running around naked.

The caller reported he was being held down by bystanders and was currently fighting with them. The caller stated she thought "he was high on something". Witensses stated prior to officers' arrival, Lawson had ingested a drug called "25I" or synthetic acid. He had assaulted an ex-girlfrieind by biting her, which was out of character for him.

He was running around the apartment complex naked, screaming irrational statements that he kept repeating, had run out into a large road, and had fought with the persons who tried to keep him out of the road and from assaulting anyone else. The persons who restrained him said he had "super human" strength.

Upon arrival, officers observed two men holding Lawson down on the ground, face down. He had been placed in handcuffs by one of the bystanders (who was not a law enforcement or corrections officer). Witnesses varied as to whether or not Lawson was still struggling with the persons who restrained him when officers arrived. Witnesses and officers stated one of the bystanders had pinned Lawson's neck down with one knee and had his other knee on Lawson's upper back area. The other bystander was holding down Lawson's legs. Lawson remained in this position for approximately 10 minutes before officers arrived.

The first officer to arrive immediately and quickly changed out the bystander's handcuffs with his own and put a large set of handcuffs around Lawson's ankles in the event he started to fight with them again. Then officers immediately recognized Lawson displayed shallow breathing and rolled him over. They observed his pupils were unresponsive to bright light.

They immediately took off all restraints, called for an ambulance, and began life saving efforts. Officers performed CPR and attached an AED in an effort to save his life. The Fire Department and EMS responded. Lawson had a weak pulse and displayed signs of trying to breathe on his own. EMS transported Lawson to St. David's Round Rock Hospital. He never regained consciousness and died on 6/24/2013 at 3:21 p.m.

An autopsy was performed at the Travis County Medical Examiner's Office. The Medical Examiner who performed the autopsy stated a determination on the cause and manner of death is pending toxicology results.