An argument between disagreeing members of a Baptist Church in Jackson, Mississippi, resulted in the death of a son of one of the deacons of the church. Police shot and killed him.

The congregation of the Asia Missionary Baptist Church was having a heated disagreement about the firing of their pastor. Cacedrick White, 26, the son of one of the deacons of the church arrived at the scene carrying a shotgun. He fired it once in the parking lot. Lexington, Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman Warren Strain said a Lexington police officer fired back three times, wounding White. He died at a hospital.

Before the shooting, authorities reported that the congregation had been yelling at each other. The Pastor had requested a vote of everyone present to decide if he should stay or go.

“What happened was a bunch of the pastor’s family showed up and there was a whole bunch of yelling and hollering,” Strain said.

Lexington Police Chief Martin Roby said congregants had agreed to settle things among themselves. The two police officers who were on duty in the town of 1,700 people, plus a Holmes County sheriff’s deputy who was called as backup, were actually leaving when they encountered White at the back door, Roby said.

When White fired, the officer returned fire from 15 to 20 feet, hitting him three times.

“I believe someone called him and got him upset,” he said.

Albert Gibson Sr., White’s father, told WAPT-TV that White had come to the church to protect him.

Authorities said disputes in Baptist churches are not unusual, but it was surprising that someone would bring a gun to the incident.

“Our churches are usually pretty peaceful,” Roby said. “We don’t have a lot of calls like that.”

Lexington is about 55 miles north of Jackson. Asia Missionary Baptist Church, though not particularly large, is historic. The African-American congregation formed in the 1870s and meets in a tan brick building completed in 1908.

A sad situation in a small town saw the son of a church deacon shot and killed by police.

James Turnage

The Guardian Express

source