Riverside County has paid $350,000 to settle a federal civil rights lawsuit by the family of a man who was shot to death in his car by sheriff’s deputies two years ago in Jurupa Valley.

The settlement document says the county continues to “deny and dispute” the claims and allegations by the family of Anthony Thompson, but agreed to settle to avoid the expense of litigation.

Thompson, 34, of Bloomington, was killed June 25, 2013, by deputies responding to a report of a man firing at an occupied home on 45th Street near Agate Street. Five deputies shot him after they said he accelerated his vehicle at them.

An uncle who witnessed the shooting said it still haunts him.

“They shouldn’t have killed him,” Roger Travillion said.

The Riverside County District Attorney’s Office reviewed the officer-involved shooting in February 2014.

“It was determined that there was no criminal culpability on the part of the involved officers and the agency of those officers was advised,” John Hall, spokesman for the office wrote in an email.

With the settlement, Thompson’s family, Riverside County and the sheriff’s deputies named in the lawsuit stipulated to a dismissal, which was signed off by U.S. District Court Judge Virginia A. Phillips on March 19.

Thompson’s mother, Loretta Travillion, said she could not comment about the settlement on advice of legal counsel.

Roger Travillion, her brother, was not a party to the lawsuit and agreed to talk about the shooting.

He said his nephew shot about four times at a car parked in the driveway of the family’s home because of a family dispute over the car, then left. The family called the Sheriff’s Department at 3:16 p.m.

Travillion went out the back of the house and over a neighbor’s fence, where he was attacked by a dog.

“By the time I made it back up front, he was already gone and the cops were already there,” Travillion said.

Then Thompson returned in his vehicle, described by the Sheriff’s Department as a burgundy 2001 Pontiac.

“He was kind of going fast enough to slide sideways,” Travillion said.

The car came to a stop in the dirt about two houses away. Travillion heard his nephew shout out the window at deputies, “Are you looking for me?”

That’s when deputies opened fire on Thompson, shooting at least nine times, Travillion said.

With Thompson still in the car, it rolled forward on the street –Travillion said his nephew’s foot came off the brake pedal. He estimated the car may have traveled 20 to 25 feet before deputies – one on each side – were able to reach in and put the vehicle in park.

Travillion figures Thompson was dead by then.

Thompson had recently lost his long-haul truck driving job after a disagreement with his employer, and was struggling to make rent on the Bloomington residence he shared with his wife, children, father and a friend, Travillion said.

The car that started the family dispute had belonged to Loretta and Roger Travillion’s mother, who had died about a month before the incident.

“He thought he was going to be given that car so he could sell it to make the rent,” Roger Travillion said.

Travillion had offered to split the proceeds of the sale with his nephew and “he didn’t like that.”

Thompson also had been out drinking at a bar before the incident, his uncle said.

The family’s federal lawsuit filed in January 2014 alleged that Thompson’s civil rights were violated by the deputies and that the county should be liable too.

Named as plaintiffs were his wife, three of his children, his mother and his father. The lawsuit sought compensation for loss of financial support, funeral and burial expenses, and attorney fees and damages for wrongful death and punitive damages.

Besides the county, the defendants were sheriff’s deputies Robert Carrasco, David Newman, Chris Brown, Shawna Hennessey and David Melendez.

Eric Valenzuela, one of the Woodland Hills based attorneys representing family members, wrote in an email, “Part of the settlement limits what we are able to say about the matter,” but confirmed the lawsuit was settled as to all of the parties.

Since last year, Riverside County has been ordered by the courts to pay more than $8 million in litigation stemming from officer-involved shootings.

In June, a federal jury awarded $7.81 million to a 31-year-old man who was partially paralyzed after being shot in the face by a deputy in Cathedral City in 2011. William Howard, who eventually was convicted of robbery, was hiding from deputies at the time.

In August, the mother of a Lake Elsinore man shot and killed by a deputy receive a $1 million civil judgment in federal court. Arturo Fernandez, 20, was shot once in the head after deputies said he rammed a patrol car with his pickup.

Staff writer Jeff Horseman contributed to this story.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9075 or gwesson@pressenterprise.com