[June 24, 2013] Father says Fort Worth police didn't have to kill his son Tweet

FORT WORTH, Jun 24, 2013 (Fort Worth Star-Telegram - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- Reginald Byrd doesn't believe that Fort Worth police officers had to shoot his son to death Sunday morning -- even though he was violently stabbing a woman.







Byrd, 55, said Monday that it shouldn't have taken several officers to stop his son, who was a convicted killer.



"You could use a stun gun," Byrd said Monday in a telephone interview. "They could have shot him in the leg." Police said that officers T.A. Bamrick, C.L. Allard and P.D. Reesehey had to force their way into the Hills Apartments, 3245 Bridge Ave., on Sunday morning. Inside, the officers saw a man "viciously" stabbing a woman with a large knife and fired to stop him, according to a news release.





"Officers commanded the male to drop the knife but he refused," police Sgt. Kelly Peel said in a news release. " Believing the victim's life was in jeopardy, the male suspect was shot to stop the attack." Authorities have not released the name of the man, but Byrd and other family members identified him as Damon Earl Bacy Byrd, 37, who had been out of prison for three years.



The woman, whom authorities did not identify, suffered multiple stab wounds and was rushed to a hospital Sunday morning. She was in stable condition Monday.



Poolice said officers attended to the woman's wounds as they waited for paramedics.



Reginald Byrd said his son and the woman had had problems for more than a year.



"He had locked her out a couple of times because she didn't live there," Byrd said. "He'd call me about her all the time." Byrd said the woman had used a stun gun on her son in the past.



Relatives of the woman could not be reached Monday.



Police declined to provide any more information Monday because of the ongoing investigation.



Byrd said his son had been taking anxiety medications since he was released from prison.



"I know my son," Byrd said. "Something had to have happened to him." A Tarrant County jury convicted Damon Byrd in July 1999 of murder and sentenced him to 12 years in prison.



Jurors determined during the sentencing phase of the trial that he acted "under sudden passion" in the death of Harry Ford, 41, which dropped the punishment range from a possible life sentence to a 20-year maximum sentence.



This report includes material from the Star-Telegram archives.



Domingo Ramirez Jr., 817-390-7763 Twitter: @mingoramirezjr ___ (c)2013 the Fort Worth Star-Telegram Visit the Fort Worth Star-Telegram at www.star-telegram.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

[ Back To TMCnet.com's Homepage ]