A Sacramento man shot by Vacaville police during a freeway confrontation Friday died of his wounds, Vacaville police investigators confirmed Saturday.

Police said Lonnie Taylor, 21, was shot as he tried to ram officers with his vehicle after they stopped him on eastbound Interstate 80, about one mile east of Leisure Town Road, following an apparent commercial burglary at the Vacaville Wal-Mart.

Lt. John Carli said a “single officer fired a single round” that eventually killed Taylor, who died several hours after being taken to the Kaiser Permanente emergency room in Vacaville.

Police declined to release the name of the officer, who, according to standard protocol, was placed on administrative leave.

Carli said that Taylor had “a criminal history, and we don”t know how this is going to play out.”

He said the initial investigation revealed that Taylor had “an extensive criminal history in Sacramento and throughout the Bay Area,” with charges related to “drugs, guns and gangs.”

Under such circumstances, said Carli, police believe it is necessary to protect the safety of the officer involved by not identifying him.

Police said the encounter began just before 3:30 p.m. Friday, when officers were dispatched to the Wal-Mart on Helen Power Drive, on a report of a man and woman stealing televisions. Store employees, who watched the pair leave in a light-colored sedan, relayed the suspects” descriptions to dispatchers. They also provided a license plate number, which was registered out of Sacramento, police said.

An officer spotted a car matching the description (a Lincoln MK8), including the license plate provided, and made a traffic stop.

During the stop, the driver (identified as Taylor) “disobeyed direct orders by starting the vehicle and putting the car in reverse, making an aggressive acceleration backward, striking the officers who were attempting to physically prevent his escape,” Carli said in a press release. An officer fired a single shot as Taylor again “dangerously lunged the car in a forward motion,” he said.

Two police officers at the scene narrowly avoided serious injury by making a quick retreat away from the moving car, noted Carli.

According to the California Highway Patrol, Taylor”s vehicle crashed into the center divider just west of Midway Road, then hit the rear of a Honda Odyssey, which was pushed into the rear of a Ford Ranger.

The Odyssey driver, Alan L. Nakisher, 56, of Dublin, was unhurt, the CHP said in a press release issued Saturday, but his two passengers — Cheryl Y. Nakisher, 56, of Dublin, and Elizabeth A. Kreamer, 66, of Maple Grove, Minn. — complained of pain and were treated at VacaValley Hospital.

The driver of the Ranger, Trung Ngyuen, 35, of Sacramento, was also unhurt, the CHP said.

Officers arriving at the scene of the collisions determined that Taylor had been struck by a single gunshot and rendered medical aid until paramedics arrived.

CHP officers and Solano County Sheriff”s deputies completely shut down the freeway for an hour and partially closed it for another 90 minutes while they and rescue teams managed the multiple crime scenes, the CHP said.

Carli on Saturday said a female passenger in Taylor”s vehicle was identified as Elizabeth Ilar, 18, of Sacramento. Grazed in the hand by a bullet, she was treated at the Kaiser emergency room and released, he said. Ilar is being charged with suspicion of a commercial burglary but was not booked into Solano County Jail, Carli said.

However, though the investigation is still ongoing, other charges against her, possibly brought by the Solano County District Attorney, may be pending, he added.

Victims in the two vehicles that Taylor struck were not seriously injured, but they were taken to area hospitals, treated and later released, said Carli.

He called the afternoon burglary “pretty brazen,” adding that he was unsure if it was connected to an organized crime ring.

The Solano County DA”s Office is assisting in a joint investigation of the officer-involved shooting.

Anyone with information is asked to call Carli at 449-5220.

Managing Editor Robin Miller and Staff Writer Richard Bammer contributed to this report.