An armed suspect who allegedly fired at police officers before he was shot and killed on Van Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima on Sunday has been identified as David Garcia, 34, of the city of Mojave, Los Angeles County Coroners officials said Tuesday.

Officers from the Los Angeles Police Department’s Foothill Division responded to a call reporting a shooting in progress about 11:52 a.m. Sunday at a strip mall in the 12700 block of Van Nuys Boulevard, just east of Glenoaks Boulevard, authorities said.

Officers found a male victim, who had been shot in one of his biceps. The wounded man was taken to a local hospital and released later that day, LAPD Sgt. John Kennedy has said.

Responding officers also witnessed the suspect, who was armed with a handgun, walking east on Van Nuys Boulevard, according to a police statement released Tuesday.

“The suspect fired his weapon at the officers and an officer involved shooting ensued,” the statement said. “The suspect was struck by gunfire and fell to the ground, where he was taken into custody.”

None of the officers were injured and a 9 mm semi-automatic pistol was recovered from the scene, the statement said. Los Angeles County Fire Department officials pronounced the suspect dead.

Several people who said they knew the suspect gathered Sunday at a parking lot of a nearby McDonald’s waiting to hear confirmation.

Rosalva Maldonado, 49, of Pacoima said Garcia — who at the time had still not been positively identified as the suspect — was her sister’s brother-in-law.

“They call him Little Red,” Maldonado said of the suspect, as she stood behind the red police tape that blocked Glenoaks from Van Nuys Boulevard that afternoon.

While Maldonado said she was not close to Garcia, she also said she thought “he’s a good kid.”

“A lot of people know him around here; they say it’s him,” she said. “He used to live here a long time ago.”

On Tuesday, Maldonado said by phone that there were different stories circulating about what had happened that day and said she had nothing to add.

“He’s gone anyway,” she said.

The LAPD’s Force Investigation Division is investigating the officer-involved shooting while Robbery Homicide Division detectives are investigating the alleged crimes against the officers, the police statement said.

brenda.gazzar@dailynews.com

@bgazzar on Twitter