Staff Writer

Wicked Local

By Richard K. Lodge

Daily News Staff

It wasn’t even noon on a Tuesday in July but it might as well have been midnight. In a dark, sweltering Ashland attic, Andrew Stigliano, a 27-year-old sometime drug user, gripped a loaded pump shotgun in his hand as he wrestled with a police dog whose jaws were locked on his shin.

Ashland K-9 Officer Christopher Alberini scuttled across the attic floor after his dog, clutching a flashlight in his hand. He lunged forward, striking Stigliano on the face with his forearm. And then he saw the shotgun.

"… As I pushed him over and I was yelling ‘gun, gun, gun, drop the gun.’ I was pushing him and he wasn’t dropping the gun. It was still there, and I started the sequence again, ‘Gun, gun, gun, drop’ – and at that point … I started to draw my firearm from my holster," Alberini later told the Massachusetts State Police lieutenant investigating the July 2, 2013, fatal shooting. Alberini drew his Glock .40-caliber handgun, pressed the barrel into the man’s ribs on his right side, and fired two rounds. "As soon as I stopped, he dropped both the gun and the dog."

Following the investigation, Middlesex District Attorney Marian Ryan ruled the shooting was justified. Details from a thick sheaf of police interviews and accounts by a dozen police officers, bystanders and people involved paint a picture of an encounter that turned from a routine police call to a dramatic – and ultimately fatal – encounter. The documents were released to the Daily News in response to a state Public Records Law request.

***

At about 10:50 a.m. on July 2, 2013, Ashland Police Officer Kevin Piers was in his cruiser on Rte. 135, when he narrowly avoided getting hit by a car pulling into traffic. He recognized the driver as Andrew Stigliano, and knew there were outstanding warrants for him, so Piers followed the car to 13 Metropolitan Ave. where Stigliano lived. In the driveway, Stigliano jumped out of the car - leaving it running with his girlfriend, Amanda Clinton, in it - and ran into the house.

Piers radioed for backup, which brought Lt. Richard Briggs, Officer Bill Foster and Sgt. Greg Fawkes to the scene. Other officers arrived and helped secure the area. When police yelled for Stigliano to come outside, no one answered. Alberini was called to bring his German shepherd "Dax." Alberini was off that day and home with his two children. When the call came, he quickly asked a neighbor to watch his kids, put on his gear, put Dax in the car and drove the short distance to Metropolitan Avenue. They arrived a few minutes after 11 a.m.

***

It should have been a routine call. Stigliano had had run-ins with Ashland Police before, but no violence – he was just "mouthy," Alberini would put it later. Ashland Police had reportedly confiscated an old .410 shotgun and a 16-gauge shotgun shell from Stigliano’s house when they tried to serve arrest warrants on him a few months earlier. He had complained to friends and a co-worker that local cops were unfairly targeting him. He said he had built a bunker in his back yard where he could hide if the cops ever broke into the house.

In his statement to state police investigator Lt. Alan D. Hunte on July 10, 2013 – eight days after the shooting – Alberini said that, in hindsight, he should have gone into the house thinking Stigliano could be armed, even though police had never seen him violent before.

"I’m thinking back on the whole thing, I feel it’s a mistake that I never was thinking that he could be armed up there, because I … put myself at a (tactical) disadvantage where I could have been hurt.

"If I was thinking gun, I wouldn’t have put my dog in the attic. We would have done like a SWAT call out, got the SWAT team. I should have been thinking he could be armed, but I didn’t. … I don’t think any of us were at the time."

***

When Alberini arrived, he left Dax in the car and yelled into the house to tell Stigliano he was there with the dog and to come outside. There was no answer, so he kicked in a side door and he and other officers found two of Stigliano’s pit bulls - a big male and a puppy - and led them into the garage. Police left a third dog, angry and snarling, locked in a first-floor bathroom. They knew Stigliano was hiding somewhere inside the ranch house.

Still Alberini waited before bringing Dax inside. He told the investigator he made "a personalized warning at the door" for Stigliano to give himself up.

"I yelled through the house. I said, ‘Andrew … we’re here. You’re under arrest.’ I said, ‘Give up, because I’m gonna get the dog and he’s gonna find you in the house, and he will bite you. Just give up now.’ And we got no answer."

Alberini and Dax made their way through the kitchen, living room and down a hallway to two bedrooms. They were cluttered, but Stigliano wasn't there. In the hallway, Alberini saw a step ladder leading up through a hatch into the attic. The way Dax was keying on the hatch, Alberini knew Stigliano was up there.

***

Alberini and Stigliano had met before. In the investigative report by Lt. Hunte, Alberini said he had arrested Stigliano "multiple times," and been there when other officers had arrested him.

"Have any of those arrests ever been confrontational?" Hunte asked.

Alberini: "He gets … mouthy, and I think he struggled a few times, but nothing over the top. He’s never been like a big fighter, that’s why honestly I left my house, I thought, hey, I’m going to give warnings and he knows me. He’s gonna give up. He’s gonna know I’m gonna release the dog. Why get arrested with a dog bite … and that’s why I honestly thought he was gonna give up just on warnings."

***

Alberini, with Fawkes, Briggs and Piers in the upstairs hallway with him, hoisted Dax up the ladder into the attic. It was a black dog disappearing into a pitch dark attic.

"I again gave warnings," Alberini told Hunte later. "So the first one I actually did was a personalized warning. I said, ‘Andrew … it’s Alberini. I know you’re in the attic. Come on out. I’m gonna send the dog up there. He’s gonna bite you and it’s gonna hurt.’"

There was no response.

"Then I actually said to him, ‘Andrew, you’re under arrest. The only difference is you’re gonna get arrested or you’re gonna get arrested with a dog bite. Just come down.'"

With no response, Alberini lifted Dax onto his shoulder, climbed most of the way up the ladder, put his right hand on the dog’s rump and pushed him up through the open hatch. The dog immediately picked up on a scent.

"I could tell by his body language … he got into odor because that whole attic is probably 40 degrees hotter than the house, and how odor works is it builds up and builds and he’s (Stigliano) been up there, so the dog, I could tell by the way he snapped his head … there was a clear change in behavior and he took off."

Alberini could hear the dog’s feet on the floor as it moved through the dark attic.

"At some point very quick I heard what I thought was the dog struggle a little bit. I wasn’t sure if maybe he made contact with Andrew or what. I gave him the bite command real loud and as soon as that happened he made contact with Andrew because I heard Andrew yell.

"… I hit my light, poked my head up and put my light towards the noise," Alberini told Hunte. "I saw Andrew sit up and grab my dog. I had the light right on him so his back was to me. He had the dog by the face and the jowls and I could see he was trying to lift his jowls off of him, and he yelled once, "Get the f—king dog off me."

Alberini said his instinct was to stop Stigliano from hitting the dog.

"Usually this is the end of the situation. It’s dog got him. Let’s place him in handcuffs. Let’s bring him to jail."

Alberini pulled himself up into the attic, crossed over and came up behind Stigliano, who was fighting the dog.

"All I was thinking at that point is I need to stop the fight with the dog … and as I approached, I wound up to hit him on the side of the face. I went to hit him and it was like slow motion in midswing … when I saw his left hand was now off the dog and he was down, and as I came around to him, I noticed he was pulling his arm up and instantly recognized in his hand was a pump shotgun" – a 16-gauge Ithaca with a live round in the chamber.

"I could see the barrel come up first. I could clearly see rounds on the butt stock and instantly I just got that fear of, oh, my God … I could be shot."

In his sworn statement to Hunte, running the investigation for the DA's office, Alberini recounted what went through his mind after he saw the shotgun barrel in the beam of his flashlight.

Hunte: "What’s going through your mind as he has your dog, struggling with it, and he’s going for a shotgun?"

Alberini: "All I could think of was the gun and I’ve got two little kids, and I was just thinking I’m gonna get shot in this attack … that’s all I could think about was I’m gonna get shot, and, you know, I’m a police officer for seven years. I’m an avid hunter. … I know what a shotgun can do. …. You’re not gonna get wounded by that. You’re gonna be dead, and all I could think of was I can’t believe from a dog call that I told my neighbor … I’ll be back in ten minutes, to I’m in this situation now where I’m gonna get shot."

Hunte: "So is it fair to say that as this is going on you feared for your safety?"

Alberini: "Yes.

Hunte: "And you feared for the safety of the officers that are also in the house?"

Alberini: "Yes."

The struggle is over in seconds. According to a transcript of Alberini’s interview with Hunte, after the officer pushed against Stigliano and hit him in the face, Alberini drew his Glock, pressed the barrel into the man’s ribs on his right side, and fired.

"I was just trying to push him towards the gun … and I drew, fired two quick shots almost like bang, bang. As soon as I stopped, he dropped both the gun and the dog."

The officers at the foot of the ladder heard "gun, gun gun," and the shots, and quickly rushed up the steps into the darkness.

As Alberini lay on top of Stigliano, pinning his arms and the shotgun to the floor, he said he knew they were coming.

"… I know they were coming up behind me, but at this time all I knew was that it was just me and the dog and Andrew in the attic and that’s what was. I had tunnel vision at that point. I was just fixated on that gun."

Hunte: "Okay, so you fired two rounds, and then you reholstered?"

Alberini: "I reholstered."

And then "I just held his arms. I pushed his arms over the side and was just holding his arms down. … I just waited for somebody else to show up."

Lt. Briggs was the first one up the ladder into the attic, with Piers and Fawkes right behind him. Several calls had gone out for an ambulance after the shots rang out in the attic at 11:22 a.m.

In his statement later about the shooting scene, Sgt. Fawkes said he saw Stigliano on the floor of the attic, adding, "his body moved a little and then he appeared lifeless."

Piers, wearing gloves, picked up the shotgun and handed it to Fawkes, who gave it to Officer Foster, who was at the bottom of the ladder. Foster took it outside and secured it in a cruiser, as evidence. Alberini had already climbed down the ladder with Dax and gone outside. He checked to make sure the dog was OK, then put it in the cruiser.

"I was covered in blood," Alberini told Hunte. "I had blood on my face, my vest. My pants were soaked through my legs with blood, my duty belt ..." so nearby cops and firefighters handed him towels to wipe off some of the blood. Alberini was not hurt. The blood was Stigliano’s.

Fawkes said in his statement that he helped move Stigliano to part of the attic were paramedics could work on him. They quickly hooked up a heart monitor and checked it. It was 11:26 a.m. Andrew Stigliano was dead.

* * *

State Trooper Kevin M. Baker and Ashland Officer David Muri drove to the Wellesley home of Jackie and Neil Stilgiano, Andrew’s parents, that afternoon to tell them their son had been shot and killed.

In a written report to the Middlesex DA about the visit, Baker said the couple was upset at the news, and had many questions about what happened. He gave them a summary, but he stressed that a full investigation was just beginning, so many questions remained.

The couple said their son had attended an out-of-district high school because of special needs, which they would not detail, Baker reported. Stigliano received his diploma from Wellesley High School. After graduating, he "became addicted to pain medication after breaking his back following two truck accidents" he had two or three years before the shooting, and he was currently in drug rehab, the trooper reported.

"Andrew had been arrested under various circumstances since moving to Ashland and he had a history of having an adversarial relationship with the Ashland Police Department," Baker wrote.

"All the cases brought forward by the Ashland Police had been dismissed or otherwise thrown out of court, and Andrew expressed he was frequently unfairly targeted by the Ashland Police Department," Baker wrote. Stilgiano’s parents "shared this sentiment."

State police interviewed many people the day of the shooting and in the weeks that followed. Among them was a man who said he was a former co-worker at a landscaping company called Plant Life, where Stigliano worked in the month before the shooting. The man, whose name was blacked out in Trooper Jeffrey A. Saunders’ written report to the DA’s office, said Stigliano had worked with him about five years before as a laborer at another landscaping company. The man told police "Stigliano was a heroin addict, a ‘hard up junkie’ and they had problems with him lying and stealing from the business to support his habit."

The man, who was interviewed by Saunders in Webster, said he had heard Stigliano had recently been seeking treatment for his heroin addiction and "had been clean for some time," so he decided to hire him for his company. He said Stigliano was "cleaned up," a good worker and punctual.

The man said Stigliano often talked about harassment by Ashland Police officers, voiced conspiracy theories and said if the cops break into his house "he would go up into the attic and across the other side of the attic and escape from there in his backyard where he dug a ‘bunker.’" The man said Stigliano had dug a hole in the backyard and reinforced it with bricks and a cover.

***

Ashland Police Chief Craig Davis was a deputy chief and head of the SWAT team in Framingham the day Stigliano was killed. Now that he’s head of the Ashland department, he was asked recently what changes he made in the wake of the shooting.

"I didn’t have to change much," he said. "If you look at the situation, they acted appropriately. Things were done properly."

Stigliano was lying in wait with a shotgun, Davis said, and no one on the scene could have known that.

"The personnel in this department knew this kid. There was no reason to believe he would take up arms. They just thought this would resolve like any other search would have," Davis said.

With his history of SWAT training and being the head of the Framingham Police Department’s special operations unit, Davis said he might have handled things differently, maybe by bringing in a team of officers.

"I probably would have held back and done things a little differently, but I had the luxury of a SWAT team" in Framingham, he said.

But, he said, given the Ashland officers’ training and Stigliano’s history, surrounding the house, forcing the door open and ordering him to come out appeared to be appropriate.

"There were a lot of things that were done properly," Davis said, although the shooting was a "demoralizing incident for the police department."

He also said, without naming the officers involved, that Alberini was left with no choice "other than to shoot when greeted by a man armed with a shotgun."

Since taking over as chief, Davis said he has worked to update the department’s "use of force" rules and regulations.

"This isn’t because they did something wrong," he said. "It’s to enhance what they already do."

* * *

Alberini was put on administrative leave with pay after the shooting and remained in that status into December. In January, he and Dax were back on the job.

The final report issued by the Middlesex DA said "the use of lethal force by Officer Alberini was justified based on his need to protect himself and his fellow officers from the immediate threat of death or serious bodily harm from Andrew Stigliano."

Richard K. Lodge is editor of the Daily News. His email is rlodge@wickedlocal.com. Staff reporter Norman Miller contributed to this report.