After chugging malt liquor and smoking pot, Jermaine Mandley was speeding away from police officers Wednesday night when he blew through a red light at 33rd and State Streets, plowing into a car driven by a longtime West Side pastor, authorities said.

Both Rev. Charles Shyne Jr., 76, and his wife, Verlena, 72, a retired Chicago Public Schools teacher, were killed.

Advertisement

Appearing in court Friday with a white bandage over his left eye, Mandley, a 26-year-old Bolingbrook man who had not had a valid driver's license since 1995, was ordered held on $450,000 bond. He faces two counts of reckless homicide on top of several traffic citations.

Police had stopped Mandley at 35th Street and King Drive after he ran a red light. As an officer walked up to the car, Mandley told a cousin and a friend who were his passengers to "watch this," and sped away, according to Assistant State's Atty. Frank Kostouros, who said Mandley's blood alcohol level was nearly twice the legal limit.

Advertisement

Mandley's driver's license had been revoked twice, but he continued to drive, racking up four convictions for driving after the revocation, court records show.

Mandley's case illustrates the problems law enforcement officials have keeping people without legal licenses from driving. The Illinois secretary of state's office estimates that about 75,000 people are driving on Illinois roads without valid licenses.

"There is nothing to physically restrain them from doing it," said Dave Druker, spokesman for Illinois Secretary of State Jesse White.

But with legislation that went into effect in July, drivers now can face jail time with three convictions for driving on a suspended or revoked license, Druker said. Before that, the state didn't have many options except to continue to extend the time period that a scofflaw's license would be suspended or revoked, he said.

Mandley had just been released from the Pinckneyville Correctional Center in August after serving five months for parole violations. He had been in trouble with the law a few times earlier this year, receiving a citation for having an open liquor container and convictions for driving with a revoked license as well as aggravated fleeing and eluding police, authorities said.

As Mandley allegedly sped away from police Wednesday night, Shyne and his wife were following a female church member to make sure she made it home safely. They had just left worship services marking the 46th anniversary of the Hamlett-Isom Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, 5446 W. Division St., where Shyne was pastor.

Cans of malt liquor

Mandley ran the light at 33rd and State, slamming the couple's car, authorities said. Investigators found several cans of Olde English 800 Malt Liquor in the car, Kostouros said.

Advertisement

Friends and family of the Shynes expressed frustration that someone who had been without a valid license for six years could be on the road.

"It's unfortunate that the legal system is what it is. Things seem to be ignored," said daughter-in-law Karen Shyne.

Though struggling with the shock of the accident, relatives comforted themselves with the news that the couple died together. "I don't think one would have been able to make it without the other. They were always together," Karen Shyne said.

The family was told that in his final minutes, Shyne was able to slip his arms around his wife, she said.

No friends or family were present for Mandley's hearing Friday. He was represented in court by a public defender who told Associate Judge Neil Linehan that Mandley had been living with his mother in Bolingbrook and had previously held jobs at various retail stores.

2 passengers injured

Advertisement

Mandley is next scheduled to appear in court Nov. 27.

The two passengers in the car with him were taken to local hospitals. Passenger Vernon Johnson, 19, of Chicago, said Friday that he had just met Mandley on Wednesday and didn't know much about him.

Johnson was a friend of the other passenger in the car, who was identified by authorities as Mandley's cousin.

"[Mandley] seemed to have a cool personality," said Johnson, who was discharged from Mt. Sinai Hospital on Friday after treatment for a dislocated hip.

Johnson would not talk about the accident or what the three were doing, saying only that they were headed back to his house when it occurred. No information was available on the cousin's condition.

In addition to his checkered driving record, Mandley also had felony convictions. Koustouros said Mandley was convicted in 1993 of criminal sexual abuse, received 24 months' probation and violated that probation in 1995.

Advertisement

He pleaded guilty in May 1999 to unlawful use of a weapon and obstruction of justice, then served 13 months in the Illinois River Correctional Center before being paroled in June 2000, officials said.

Based on the new charges, Mandley could face 6 to 28 years, officials said.

Church marks anniversary

At the Hamlett-Isom CME Church on Friday, members continued their 46th anniversary celebration. That's what the couple would have wanted, church members said.

They amended the program for Thursday night to add the pastor's favorite song, "Blessed Assurance," said Gussie Dye, president of the church's board of trustees. They also added the song "I Must Go On," she said.

Shyne and his wife were set to retire and head to Louisiana after decades serving the church. Shyne formerly had been presiding elder of the Chicago CME district for many years.

Advertisement

Visitation will be held from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Tuesday at the Carter Temple CME Church, 7841 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago. Services will follow at 1 p.m.