Brett Kelman

The Desert Sun

A fleeing man who Indio police fatally shot two years ago was carrying a gun and twisted his body as if to point it at a pursuing officer in the moments before he was shot, a newly released case file shows.

The law enforcement documents detail the shooting from the perspective of both the officer who pulled the trigger and several witnesses.

Ernest Foster Jr., 37, was killed during a foot chase near Highway 111 and Monroe Street on July 4, 2013. His family filed a $5 million lawsuit against the Indio Police Department in June, claiming there was no justifiable reason to shoot Foster. However, witness statements — now public for the first time — support the police account of Foster’s death.

Family sues Indio police for $5M in fatal shooting

Four witnesses, who saw the shooting from different vantage points, told authorities that Foster appeared to be holding something as he fled from police. Three of those witnesses also said they saw a handgun on the ground after Foster was shot. And a police cadet who witnessed the shooting said Foster turned toward the pursuing officer in the second before he was shot.

The new documents also include a transcribed interview with Officer Jeremy Hellawell, who shot Foster. Hellawell said he suspected Foster had a gun before the foot chase began, but he didn’t open fire until he saw Foster turning to face him with the weapon in his hand.

“I saw the gun clear as day,” Hellawell said, according to the transcript. “And I saw him raise it.”

Authorities found a .380-caliber handgun — with a bullet in the chamber and the hammer cocked — on the ground near Foster. Gunshot residue was on Foster’s right hand.

The new law enforcement documents, which span nearly 300 pages, were obtained exclusively by The Desert Sun through a public records request submitted to the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office. In addition to Hellawell’s interview transcript, the documents contain witness statements, evidence reports and autopsy results. The names and private information of witnesses have been redacted, but the documents are otherwise complete.

The DA’s Office previously cleared Hellawell of any criminal wrongdoing.

Justin Palmer, a Beverly Hills attorney who represents the Foster family, said he could not comment on the documents because he had not reviewed them.

In June, shortly after the lawsuit was filed, Palmer said litigation was necessary to force the Indio Police Department to provide answers about the shooting. Foster died nearly two years prior, but the family still hadn’t been able to get the police report or the coroner’s report, the attorney said.

“I think, given the lack of transparency, the family didn’t have a choice but to file a lawsuit,” Palmer said in June.

The law enforcement documents were released in accordance with the District Attorney’s new police shooting transparency policy, which took effect over the summer. Under this policy, whenever an officer is cleared in a shooting investigation, the DA’s Office will issue a letter explaining why the shooting was justified. The DA will also consider case-by-case requests to “open their books” on specific shootings, as it did in the Foster case.

At the time of the shooting, Hellawell was responding to a 911 call about a man with a gun in a cluster of businesses near the Highway 111 intersection. The officer spotted Foster outside of Cig Zone, a cigarette store, and pulled up to question him. As Hellawell stepped out of his patrol car, Foster started to flee, running east toward a nearby Auto Zone.

“Police! Stop!” Hellawell shouted, according to his interview transcript. “Show me your hands! Keep your hands where I can see them! ... I believe you have a gun. I’m going to shoot.”

Despite the warning, Foster kept running, and his right hand fumbled near his waistband, as if reaching into a pocket. Hellawell fired his Taser at the suspect, but it didn’t seem to work. Foster didn’t slow.

Mourning for slain officer, Indio cop shot fleeing man

“And, right before he got to the corner, his hand went somewhere,” Hellawell said. “It was either in his pants pocket, or shirt, pants, waist — something. And I screamed at him. ‘Don’t do it. I’m going to shoot. Don’t do it.’”

Hellawell said Foster then twisted his torso, as if turning to face him, revealing a pistol butt in his right hand. Hellawell fired three shots. Two bullets struck Foster’s back, then he tumbled to the pavement. He was transported to JFK Memorial Hospital, where he died.

According to the newly released documents, at least one witness confirmed he heard Hellawell yelling “Stop or I’ll shoot” during the foot chase. That witness, and several others, said Foster was running with something in his hands, although he couldn’t tell what.

After the bullets flew, the witness saw a black pistol on the ground.

“I saw the subject down — saw lots of blood. I saw his handgun,” the witness told police during an interview.

Foster, who was sometimes known by the nickname “Man,” was a convicted felon who had been caught carrying a weapon twice over the prior five years.

The Indio Police Department declined to comment, citing the pending lawsuit.

Reporter Brett Kelman can be reached by phone at (760) 778-4642, by email at brett.kelman@desertsun.com, or on Twitter @TDSbrettkelman.