Texas Rangers are investigating a case where a 19-year-old Kingwood woman died over the weekend while she was in the custody of the Washington County Sheriff's Department.

Madeleine Gene Richardson died Saturday morning at College Station Medical Center from an apparent overdose of methamphetamines, Washington County Chief Deputy Jay Petrash said.

Richardson was a passenger in a car that was pulled over by a deputy around 2:45 p.m. Friday. The deputy stopped the car for driving 21 mph over the limit on westbound U.S. 290 near Brenham, Petrash said.

Sheriff's deputies discovered a small amount of pot and drug paraphernalia in the vehicle, according to a statement from the sheriff's department. Richardson and the vehicle's driver, Gary Keife, 20, of Kingwood, were arrested.

According to the statement, Richardson looked ill when she arrived at the jail and admitted to swallowing a bag full of methamphetamine.

Brett Bessac, assistant professor of pharmaceutical sciences, said the two main areas of the body affected by methamphetamines are the brain and heart.

A person on meth, he said, is "very talkative and their movements appear almost robotic." An overdose will draw a stronger response.

"Their guts will be clenched. ... They'll sweat and their blood pressure will rise. They'll look like anyone does when they get scared," said Bessac, who works at the Texas A&M Health Science Center's Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy in Kingsville.

Deputies called for paramedics, who took Richardson to Scott & White in Brenham. She was taken from there to The Med. She was pronounced dead Saturday by a Brazos County justice of the peace.

"I would assume [the meth] blew a blood vessel in her head. She probably had a stroke or a heart attack," Bessac said.

An autopsy is pending with the Travis County Medical Examiner.

Friends of Richardson began posting news about her death on Sunday via Facebook.

"It breaks my heart to think that such a sweet girl's life was cut so short," wrote Chelsea Williams, a former co-worker at Carrabba's Italian Grill. "I will miss our weird conversations and your bright attitude. I will miss so many things about you Madi. I love you."

Pictures of Richardson with friends at formals were tagged with statements like "You will forever be my best friend. Love you so much Madi May."

Texas Ranger Jeff Wolf of Brenham is handling the investigation, Petrash said. Calls to Wolf's office seeking comment were not returned.

Petrash said the driver was issued a ticket for possession of drug paraphernalia, a class C misdemeanor, and released by a judge.

Kingwood is about 30 miles north of Houston and a 90-minute drive from Brenham.