Staff Writer

Amarillo Globe-News

Amarillo police fatally shot a man Sunday morning after he pointed what they thought was a pistol at an officer, authorities said.

German Mata, 35, was transported to a local hospital, police said, where he died after being shot during the incident.

Police said two officers responded about 2:45 a.m. to reports of a disturbance at 1615 S. Jackson St., where a man confronted them outside.

Mata pulled a replica pistol out of his waistband and pointed it at officers, police said.

Thinking Mata was going to shoot, police said one of the officers shot the man.

Mata's neighbor, Ozias Frazier, went outside after hearing gunshots and saw him lying on the sidewalk.

Frazier said he was surprised to hear Mata had alledgedly pointed the replica pistol at police.

"He was usually a cool man, and it didn't seem like he'd do something like that," Frazier said.

Neighbor Richard Chapa said he heard about five gunshots, while neighbor Bryan Thorson assumed the sound was fireworks.

The officer who shot Mata, who police did not identify Sunday, was placed on three days of administrative leave, police said.

Justice of the Peace Debbie Horn has ordered an autopsy, police said.

The shooting remains under investigation by the Potter-

Randall Special Crimes Unit.

The most recent officer-

involved shootings in Amarillo before Sunday took place in September 2011, when two armed men were killed by shots fired by police within 16 hours of each other.

Jerry Etheredge, 56, was shot by police during a fight with a man in a parking lot at 403 S. Western St.

Etheredge had followed his estranged wife and another man into the parking lot, where he and the man began fighting for the gun, and shots were fired.

Police arrived on scene and ordered Etheredge to drop the weapon, but he refused.

Police fired at Etheredge several times, and he was transported to a local hospital, where he died.

The following day, Edward Jay Browne, 37, was killed by shots fired by police after a pursuit in north Amarillo.

Officers, who had been searching for Browne to arrest him on warrants, saw him pull out what they thought was a semi-automatic handgun from his waistband and point it toward police, who fired their weapons at Browne.

Browne, who died on scene, had been wanted on multiple warrants and was in possession of BB guns.