BELLEVILLE — The wife of a Belleville man who was shot two dozen times by police and killed in his family's apartment after a domestic dispute in July plans to file a multimillion-dollar wrongful death suit against the town's police department, according to court papers.

Belleville police used excessive force and violated Dante Cespedes’ civil rights when they opened fire inside the family’s apartment on July 9, according to a notice of claim filed in Superior Court in Newark last week.

Prosecutors have said Cespedes lunged at the officers with knives.

The officers were responding to an assault complaint lodged by his wife, Judy Breton, who previously told The Star-Ledger she and Cespedes argued in the hours before the fatal confrontation. Cespedes had been drinking the night of the incident, according to Breton, but prosecutors have not revealed the results of toxicology tests.

Officers Angelo Quinn, Charles Mollineaux and Matthew Dox fired approximately 30 rounds, killing Cespedes, according to court papers. Quinn and Mollineaux each fired 14 times, while Dox fired twice, according to court papers. Cespedes was struck two dozen times, according to the claim. Officer Gary DeVito was also in the apartment, but he did not use his weapon, Belleville Police Chief Joseph Rotonda said.

“I told them just to take him out of the house,” Breton told The Star-Ledger in July. “Not to kill him.”

The shooting remains under review by the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office, and it is unclear if or when the case will be presented to a grand jury.

The timeline of events that led to Cespedes’ death remains unclear. The couple began arguing around 11 p.m. on July 8 and, Breton said, Cespedes had been drinking and attempted to hit her.

Breton went to Belleville police headquarters and filed a complaint, and gave officers her keys so they could access the apartment, Rotonda said.

Police and prosecutors have not said if there was a verbal exchange between Cespedes and the officers once they entered the apartment, confirming only that Cespedes lunged at the officers with knives before the fatal shots were fired.

According to court records, Mollineaux and Dox were also named along with several other officers in an excessive force lawsuit filed by a Belleville resident in 2012.

Breton’s attorney, Marc Bengualid, said his client has been unable to work since the killing, and is struggling to tell her children what happened.

“It’s tough for her. She’s a mother with four kids dealing with what happened to her husband,” Bengualid said. “There’s a lot of guilt and kids asking a lot of questions and a mother without any answers.”

RELATED COVERAGE

• Wife of Belleville chef asks why police shot her husband 24 times

• Belleville police shot chef about 25 times during deadly encounter

• Belleville chef shot and killed by police investigating domestic violence allegation