Adam Sauceda/Standard-Times Law officials examine the wreckage after a motorcyclist struck a pickup at Avenue N and Bryant Boulevard on Friday. The motorcyclist, an unidentified man who had been involved in a police chase, died on the scene.

SHARE

Authorities have identified the motorcyclist who died in a multivehicle crash as Edgar Federico Duenez, a 27-year-old from Houston, according to the Texas Department of Public Safety.

One driver was sent to the hospital after the crash Friday evening at Avenue N and South Bryant Boulevard.

The crash was the result of a high-speed pursuit that began before 5 p.m. just north of Carlsbad, when a Texas Department of Public Safety trooper tried to stop a 2009 Kawasaki sport motorcycle going well over the speed limit, said DPS spokesman Trooper Shawn Baxter. His speed was clocked about 79 miles per hour in a 70 mph zone.

The trooper pursued the motorcycle to Grape Creek, where Duenez exited on Farm-to-Market Road 2288 toward San Angelo.

The motorcyclist ran a stop sign and got back onto U.S. 87, headed south toward San Angelo, Baxter said.

Once Duenez entered city limits, the trooper began to lose sight of the motorcycle because stop signs and traffic lights slowed him.

As Duenez drove south on Bryant, he ran a red light and collided with a four door, gold Dodge Ram 1500 crew cab pickup that was eastbound on Avenue N, Baxter said. The pickup, which had been stopped at a traffic light in the outside lane of eastbound Avenue N and had driven into the intersection, struck a traffic pole that fell and hit a northbound Nissan Armada SUV.

The driver of the Dodge, Linda Cervantez Valadez, 65, of San Angelo, was injured as a result of the crash, Baxter said. She was taken to Shannon Medical Center with incapacitating injuries. No passengers were in the truck.

After the Dodge was struck, it's left rear panel hit a 2005 Chevrolet crew cab pickup driven by Oscar James Robles Jr., 40, of San Angelo. Also in the truck was Lydia Maria Garcia, 52, of San Angelo. The Chevy continued through the intersection and stopped in a convenience store parking lot at the southeast corner of the intersection.

The Nissan Armada was driven by Cathy Parker Hallmark, 60, of Wrightsboro, Baxter said. Also in the vehicle were Alison Schimcek, 35; Cullen James Schimcek, 4; and Layton Allen Schmicek, 2. All passengers were from Weimar ? about 110 miles east of San Antonio.

All four were unharmed, Baxter said.

The motorcyclist was pronounced dead by Justice of the Peace Precinct 1 Kay Longest, who ordered his body to be sent to Lubbock for an autopsy.

The man was wearing a helmet, gloves, boots and a jacket at the time of the crash. The motorcycle was traveling at 79 miles per hour when the trooper initially checked his speed. Baxter said he did not know what the top speed was during the chase.

The crash site was investigated by a crash team from Midland Friday evening that assisted in surveying and re-creating the sequence of events. The intersection was re-opened about midnight, Baxter said.