<p>STAR FILE PHOTO</p>

SHARE

By Marjorie Hernandez of the Ventura County Star

The Ventura County District Attorney’s Office has concluded two sheriff’s deputies were justified in fatally shooting a Ventura man last year near a Girl Scout camp in Oak View.

District Attorney Greg Totten announced Thursday his office’s review of the July 12, 2013, shooting showed the deputies “acted reasonably.”

Daniel Houfek, 42, of Ventura, was shot and killed by Deputies Danielle Delpit and Brian Dent after he pointed a handgun at them near a Girl Scout camp in the 1000 block of Old Creek Road, authorities said.

Deputies had responded to a report of a suspicious person in a vehicle near the camp, authorities said. Deputies found a sport utility vehicle, and a short chase occurred.

Houfek eventually stopped the vehicle, got out and pointed a handgun at the two deputies, authorities said. The deputies then fired at him.

“At some point during that incident, Daniel Houfek likely made the decision to end his life,” according to the report, which was prepared by Senior Deputy District Attorney Christopher Harman. “He placed Delpit and Dent into what they perceived to be a life or death situation for themselves and others who were in the are by pointing his gun at them.

“Both deputies fired their weapons based on a reasonable perception that Houfek was trying to shoot them. Both deputies responded with reasonable force based on the situation, and ceased firing once Houfek ceased being a threat.”

Houfek’s gun was found at the scene, officials said. No deputies were injured, and no one else was with the man at the time of the shooting, authorities said.

According to the report, Houfek expressed suicidal intentions and had recorded himself on video playing Russian roulette. Houfek had a “significant level” of methamphetamine in his system, but the report said it was unclear when he ingested the drug.

According to the report, Delpit saw Houfek in his vehicle parked about 200 feet from the camp with a loaded 9 mm handgun. Houfek told Delpit he was “down” and said something about a child who was taken away, authorities said. Delpit asked Houfek to step outside the vehicle, but Houfek drove away at a high speed, the report stated.

Houfek drove on Highway 33 and stopped at Old Creek Road, driving to a point about 50 feet from the Old Creek Ranch Winery. According to the report, Houfek got out of his vehicle and shouted at Delpit,” Shoot me! Kill me!”

“Houfek began pointing his gun at Deputy Delpit,” according to the report. “Deputy Delpit was afraid he was going to shoot her and fired her handgun at Houfek.”

Houfek was “unaffected” by the shot and walked to the front of his vehicle still holding his handgun, authorities said. According to the report, Dent saw Houfek holding a gun and yelled at him to get on the ground.

“Houfek ignored the command and continued yelling for the deputies to shoot him,” the report stated. “Houfek began to point his gun in the direction of Deputy Dent. Deputy Dent was afraid Houfek intended to shoot at him, so he fired at Houfek.”

Houfek was able to move toward the winery’s metal gate and climbed through the other side. The deputies then fired at Houfek, who continued to yell at the deputies to kill him, authorities said. According to the report, Houfek became frustrated and threw his gun on the ground. The grip of the gun dislodged from the magazine. Houfek lunged toward the gun at some point and the deputies fired at him from about 30 feet away, according to the report.

An autopsy conducted by county Medical Examiner Dr. Jon J. Smith found seven distinct gunshot wounds, including shots to Houfek’s heart, lungs and liver.

The District Attorney’s Office routinely reviews all officer-involved shootings in Ventura County.