July 14, 2013 (CHICAGO)

Chicago police then pursued the suspect until that car crashed into two other vehicles and a CTA bus.

This is the second time since May that a high speed police chase ended with a car crash taking the life of an innocent. This time the victim was a mother of five, recently engaged, and with so much to look forward to.

"She was a good mom," said Maritza Mercado, the victim's sister. "Always there for her kids. Always fights for her kids."

A family is in mourning. Five kids left without their mother, all because of a police chase gone horribly wrong.

She doesn't deserve this," said Maritza Venga, the victim's niece. "Her kids don't deserve this either. She's so young."

According to police, 35-year-old Marisol Mercado died early Sunday morning as a result of a chain of events that began with a West Side shooting on the 200 block of South Springfield at 11:30 Saturday night.

Police say the driver of the vehicle that appeared to be connected to the shooting led them on a high speed chase that ended when the suspect crashed into a CTA bus and two other vehicles near Chicago and Pulaski.

A total of nine people had to be hospitalized as a result, four of them in serious to critical condition. Mercado and one of her daughters were in the silver vehicle. Mercado died at Mt. Sinai Hospital a short time later.

"That young lady was someone's mother, sister, aunt. Now they have to sit and mourn for his being stupid. It's crazy," said neighborhood resident Veronica Winters.

The 33-year-old suspect has not been identified. He was taken to Stroger Hospital but it's not clear if he's still there. Meanwhile, Mercado's family must put their mourning on hold, as they await news of her daughter's condition.

"Was that really necessary for my sister to die? My niece was in the car too. That person didn't even care who else got hurt," Maritza Mercado said.

No police vehicles were involved in the crash and no officers were hurt. The driver of the CTA bus was also uninjured.

It is unclear at this hour if the suspect will face any charges stemming from the accident.