Benito Narvaiz Jr. December 24, 1964 - July 13, 2013



Share this obituary

NARVAIZ



Benito “Tito” Narvaiz, 48, a former resident of Freer, currently living in Alice, went to be with the Lord on Saturday, July 13, 2013 due to an automobile accident. He was formally employed with Petroleum Production Co and is currently employed with Newman Operating Co for over 20 years. He was a loving husband, father, grandfather and brother who enjoyed spending time with his family, especially his grandchildren. He enjoyed watching football, barbequing and traveling with his wife. He always had a smile on his face.



He was preceded in death by his parents, Benito and Rosa Narvaiz; sister-in-law, Maria Narvaiz; his father-in-law, Juan P. Gonzalez.



Benito is survived by his wife America Narvaiz of Alice, Texas; two sons, Benito Narvaiz III of Ennis, Texas; Adrian Narvaiz (Tasha Vasquez) of Corpus Christi, Texas; one daughters, April Narvaiz (Jeffrey Bazan) of Corpus Christi, Texas; three stepchildren, Lisa Saenz (Jesse) of San Diego, Texas; Martin Perez Jr.(Talisha) of Freer, Texas; Arnold Perez (Delisha) of Colorado; five brothers, Genaro Zambrano, Perfecto Delgado (Minerva) , Ismael Delgado, Rogelio Delgado and Juan Narvaiz; seven sisters, Norma Lopez, Irma Arrizola, Celia Sanchez, Delia Garcia (Ismael), Benita Leal (Tomas Tanguma), Leticia Narvaiz (Lydia), Sara Narvaiz (Joe Garcia); two sister-in-law, Ancira Trevino (Jessie), Camie Villanueva (LJ); one brother-in-law, J.D. Gonzalez (Susie); mother-in-law, Graciela Gonzalez (Dale); Grandpa Joe Martinez; 14 grandchildren; numerous nieces and nephews.





Visitation will be held from 6 to 9 p.m. on Tuesday, July 30, 2013 at the Garza Funeral Home in San Diego, Texas with a Rosary to be recited at 7:00 p.m. that evening. Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, July 31, 2013 at Immaculate Heart of Mary Catholic Church in Encinal, Texas. Interment will follow at the Encinal Cemetery in Encinal, Texas



Anyone wishing to leave condolences for the family may do so at www.garzafuneralhome.com



Arrangements entrusted to Garza Funeral Home.



To plant Memorial Trees in memory of Benito Narvaiz Jr., please click here to visit our Sympathy Store.

Send Sympathy Card

Print Obituary View Guest Book Entries