Community

Johnson County, IN – Indiana State Police detectives, at the request of Johnson County Sheriff Doug Cox, are investigating a police action shooting involving two Johnson County deputies. The shooting occurred on July 31, 2013, shortly before 2:00 p.m. on grounds of the Second Mt. Pleasant Church Cemetery, located on the County line road of Johnson and Shelby County, just north of State Road 44.



Preliminary investigation has revealed the deputies were called to the area on the report of a suspicious person. A person matching the citizen’s description was found at the cemetery and as the deputies spoke with him he provided, what was later to be determined, a false name. When the deputies asked him to show identification, the suspect, who was later identified as Derek J. Hobson, 25 of Greenwood, IN started to give an identification card to the deputies and then tried to flee.



In an attempt to stop Hobson from fleeing both deputies deployed their Tasers at the suspect, but neither Taser made a complete connection and Hobson broke away and continued to run. As Hobson was running he reportedly turned and pointed a semi-automatic pistol at both the deputies. The deputies, fearful the suspect was going to use deadly force, fired their weapons at Hobson. Hobson was struck multiple times and fell to the ground.



Medical assistance was called to the scene but the wound was fatal and Hobson was pronounced deceased at the scene.



As investigation has continued it was determined Hobson was wanted for one ‘C’ Felony count of Battery in Marion County and was also on parole for burglary out of Johnson County.



Neither deputy was injured as a result of the shooting incident. The deputies have been identified as Dan Combs, 36 a one year veteran and Lewis Wiser, 29 a two year veteran.



Agencies assisting with this investigation include the Indiana State Police, Johnson County Sheriff’s Office, Johnson County Prosecutor’s Office, Johnson County Coroner’s Office, Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms (use of their evidence recovery K-9) and the Needham Fire Department.





Investigations of this nature can take several weeks to complete. When completed, the investigation will be submitted to the Johnson County Prosecutor for review and action as deemed appropriate by that office.



No further information will be released.



###



BURSTEN



All criminal defendants are to be presumed innocent until, and unless proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.