TV Guide

The Bachelorette is winding down, and this week Desiree ventured to the hometowns of remaining men Zak, Drew, Chris and Brooks. But it wasn't a happy ending for all four as Zak, the guy with the wild entrance who made a great comeback, was ultimately sent home. What did host Chris Harrison think of the dates and Des' chat with her disapproving brother Nate? Plus: Why does he think Des' feelings about Brooks are cliché? Keep reading.

The first hometown date was with Zak, and his family sang Des a song! That guy is just always full of quirky surprises.

Chris Harrison: They were the Osmonds, apparently. Des looked so uncomfortable it was amazing. How could you not be listening to them serenading you?

And he practically gave her an engagement ring!

Harrison: It basically showed he was ready to propose. I said to Des, "If you stop this right now, there's a good chance all the guys would propose," and that's crazy.

The Bachelorette's Chris Harrison: "The biggest hurdle for Des has yet to come"

Drew had a great date, but their relationship just seems so intense.

Harrison: Drew's life might be very attractive to some. He's a very serious man, settled into who he is and what he wants. He's just not the crazy, happy-go-lucky guy who's going to bring the snow cone truck to school.

Chris' dad cracked me up.

Harrison: First of all, I don't know what a nasal adjustment is. I've been to a chiropractor a thousand times, but have never had anything shoved up my nose. To have this heartfelt father-son talk while getting I don't know what up his nose was just incredible.

Of all the guys, Brooks seems the most unsure about his future with Des, especially when his brother asked him some poignant questions.

Harrison: There are four incredible guys, but the one who isn't giving it up emotionally, isn't telling her everything she wants to hear, is the guy she's the most into. You'd think we'd learn from our mistakes, but it's really such a cliché. He's not the bad guy by any means and he's very much into Des for sure, but it's funny that there are three guys just throwing themselves at her and she is just trying to figure out Brooks.

Check out photos from The Bachelorette

What did you think of Des' chat with her brother Nate?

Harrison: I got the feeling that at any point he could've just gone off on her. Des is very much taking control of this, but at the same time, it's her brother and she's defensive of him. But he's not in her normal day-to-day life, so her contention was, "Why would I allow him to damage the situation?" I think she's going to be very careful as to how close she lets him get to the situation until her mind is made up.

How tough was this week's decision for Des?

Harrison: Any of these guys would make great husbands and great fathers. She's done a great job narrowing it down, but now it's about the life she wants.It was almost as if Zak was the odd guy out, and when the music stopped we had to take one chair away. He had a great hometown and Des really enjoyed it and saw him for who he is. I don't think he'll have any problems getting a date.

Do you think Des made the right decision? And who are you most looking forward to seeing on next week's Men Tell All?

View original Bachelorette's Chris Harrison: All Four Guys Were Ready to Propose This Week at TVGuide.com