BAY CITY NEWS

The Solano County Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot by Fairfield police officers Friday night as 47-year-old Leigh Weeden of Suisun City.

Weeden has an extensive criminal history involving weapons and robberies in multiple states, sheriff's Deputy Daryl Snedeker said. He served a 10-year-prison term for armed bank robbery and was on federal probation at the time of the shooting.



The two officers shot Weeden after a vehicle pursuit that ended in a field near Bella Vista Drive and Walters Road in unincorporated Solano County outside Suisun City.



The officers are assigned to the Special Operations Team comprised of detectives who address specific crime issues in Fairfield, Snedeker said.

They were working to reduce street crime in the East Tabor Avenue

area when they tried to stop Weeden's black Hummer for a traffic violation

around 9 p.m., Snedeker said.



Weeden drove away from the officers who pursued him into Suisun

City and to the field where the Hummer became stuck in an embankment,

Snedeker said.



As the officers approached the Hummer, Weeden stepped out of the car but quickly ducked back inside and grabbed a gun, the sheriff's office said.

Weeden fired several shots at the officers who fired back, striking Weeden several times. Weeden was pronounced dead at a local hospital, the sheriff's office said.



It was the third officer involved fatal shooting in Solano County since June 28.

Vacaville police fatally shot 24-year-old Kendall Walker, of Fairfield three times around 7:30 p.m. Thursday on Ulatis Drive in Vacaville after he walked toward officers in "an aggressive and threatening manner" with a knife and another object believed to be a hammer or crowbar, according to Vacaville police.



On June 28, Vacaville police shot Lonnie Taylor, 21, of Sacramento, after he allegedly tried to run officers over on Interstate Highway 80 in Vacaville.

Police said Taylor was suspected of stealing televisions from a Walmart.