Jason Clayworth

jclayworth@dmreg.com

Thomas Martinez Jr. was having convulsions from an apparent drug overdose — with his face, chest and abdomen pinned to the ground — when Coralville police officers shocked him with a Taser, an autopsy report obtained by The Des Moines Register shows.

That detail is significant because it further calls into question the family's longtime assertion that the electrical weapon was improperly used, leading to his death. The records show Martinez Jr., 40, kept resisting even while in a prone position and became unresponsive after the second, five-second 50,000-volt electrical shock.

The 2013 deaths of Martinez and Michael Zubrod, who both were shot with Tasers while already restrained by police, prompted questions and criticism over how law enforcement officers use the weapons. Earlier this month, the American Civil Liberties Union issued a report calling policies on Taser use by Iowa law enforcement agencies inadequate and alarmingly varied.

Only a handful of the state's 99 sheriff's departments specifically prohibit using electric shocks on pregnant women, the elderly, children or people who are already restrained, the first statewide review of the weapons showed. The report also criticized the lack of standard Taser training requirements for police officers.

Martinez was shocked with a Taser on July 22, 2013, and was taken off life support the next day. His wife, Sonja Lassy Martinez, said law enforcement and medical professionals did not inform her a Taser had been used on him until after he was pronounced dead.

More than 15 months later, the case remains open — despite the fact that a state investigation concluded nearly a year ago, and Coralville police officials cleared the officers of wrongdoing.

Johnson County Attorney Janet Lyness, who is seeking re-election next month, has not explained why her office has yet to conclude its investigation. Coralville Police Chief Barry Bedford said leaving it unresolved is frustrating because it casts shadows upon his force.

Officers who shocked Zubrod with Tasers in September 2013 also were cleared of wrongdoing, but that case was concluded in less than three months.

"I can't really say that the police did it on purpose, but he was having seizures," Lassy Martinez said. "Part of me cannot imagine why someone would Taser a man having seizures and think it was any kind of OK."

Lassy Martinez provided the Register with the autopsy reports, which are confidential to anyone except family members under Iowa law. Earlier reports made public had classified the death as accidental and made no mention of Tasers, but the full autopsy report shows other significant conditions as "Police subdual in a prone position" while using the Taser.

In other words: Tasers played a significant role in Martinez Jr's. death.

The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation investigated the incident. Mitch Mortvedt, assistant director of field operations for the DCI, declined to comment about the length of time Lyness is taking to conclude her part of the case or about the agency's apparent failure to tell Lassy Martinez that a Taser was used on her husband before he died.

"I do know our agents had conversation with her, but as far as the nuts, bolts and the when and how, we're not going to comment on that," Mortvedt said.

Alan Koslow, a cardiologist and former board member of the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa, reviewed the autopsy and contends accidental is an inaccurate classification unless it had contained a subclass, such as "accidental overdose."

"There's no way you can say this is an accident," Koslow said.

Autopsy: Man's meth level above toxic

Law enforcement officials have said they responded to a report that Martinez Jr. was destroying property at a Noodles & Company restaurant in Coralville. He also was sweating profusely and having mini-seizures when officers arrived, police have said. He flailed at emergency authorities and struck an officer, prompting them to use Tasers to subdue him, police have previously reported.

A previously released report classified the cause of death as a brain injury caused by a heart ailment due to methamphetamine intoxication. Full autopsy results show Martinez Jr. had a meth level four times higher than the level generally considered to be toxic, according to a comparison of toxicity guidelines published by the Clinical Laboratory Reference and included in the reports provided to his wife.

Lassy Martinez said she and her husband were estranged at the time, largely because of his drug problem. Martinez Jr. had violated parole stemming from a previous drug charge when he had recently come to Iowa from Arizona. It's likely he would have gone back to prison had he been apprehended, she said.

Lassy Martinez said it's possible her husband would have died regardless of the Taser use, but she still questions what happened and believes Iowa should set minimum standards that prohibit using the devices on people known to have serious medical conditions.

"With him seizing and stuff, they should have found a different way," Lassy Martinez said, noting her husband's size — 5 feet, 2 inches tall and 161 pounds — and the fact that he was being subdued by three officers.

Koslow, the cardiologist, noted people on drugs can create extreme resistance regardless of their size, causing a danger to emergency workers. He suspects Martinez Jr. may have survived if the Tasers hadn't been used, but said he can't say the weapon was misused.

The national and Iowa ACLU have criticized the use of Tasers on people who are already restrained, absent extenuating circumstances. They have called for reforms to law enforcement Taser policies and practices.

"I think the police have an obligation to subdue the patient in as safe of a manner as possible, but the primary thing is to ensure the safety of the first responders and the people in the vicinity," Koslow said. "If you have a choice, if you can't do anything else, I would think the Taser is a means."

Martha McKee said the full autopsy showing her son was shocked with a Taser while in a prone position is more evidence that the weapon was inappropriately used.

"He was tased twice, and I think that's what killed him," McKee said.

A case for greater public transparency

Coralville leaders and record advocates are using the case as an example of why greater transparency is critical in the handling of such cases.

Only limited information — not full police reports or audio or video recordings of the incident — have been released. Had Lassy Martinez not released her copy of the autopsy, that also would remain under wraps.

Coralville Mayor John Lundell and Police Chief Barry Bedford both said they'd like the case to be completed and released to the public.

Bedford said he's released all the records he can without Lyness closing the case. Lyness last week left a message with the Register saying she had nothing new to report.

"I want to see it resolved also," Bedford said. "Right now, after Ferguson, I think the temper out there is people are much more suspect if you aren't transparent."

Herb Strentz, a longtime Iowa open records advocate and former dean of Drake University's journalism school, said the length of time the case has remained open raises questions about whether that's a way to shelter information from the public.

"The continuing practice and the default toward secrecy just makes you more skeptical, even when public officials and agencies may have legitimate and appropriate reasons for keeping stuff confidential," Strentz said.