Christina McCune

christina.mccune@indeonline.com

The day before a man entered a Massillon hair salon, took an employee hostage, and ultimately was shot and killed by police, he had stolen a car and a cellphone, and left a note saying he was sorry for what he was about to do.

Seven months after the July 28 death of Shane A. Ryan, details about what happened inside the salon are clearer.

Officials released the Stark County Sheriff’s Office 200-page investigatory report following a public records request by The Independent. The report, in two bound notebooks, includes interviews with Massillon police and SWAT team officers who responded to the call to Great Clips salon last summer.

Some information, such as the name of the SWAT officer who shot Ryan — and who was later cleared of any wrongdoing — is blacked out.

INSIDE THE SALON

According to the report:

The 5 p.m. closing time was 15 minutes away. A young girl was halfway through getting her hair cut. It was a typical Sunday until a man walked through the door, pulled out a knife and demanded to see his ex-girlfriend.

In less than two hours, the intensity of the situation escalated as Ryan went from holding an employee hostage in a small back room, to opening a gas valve and threatening to blow up the building.

Even after the former girlfriend arrived at the salon and Ryan was persuaded by Massillon Police to exchange his folding knife, a screwdriver, and two pairs of scissors for cigarettes, he wouldn’t release the woman.

He threatened to ignite the gas with his lighter if they didn’t swap the hostage for his ex-girlfriend within 20 minutes.

Massillon police officers say the SWAT team arrived just in time — right after Ryan began his countdown to igniting the gas.

Ryan was shot twice by a Canton Special Weapons and Tactics team officer before releasing his grip on the hairstylist, allowing officers to rescue the woman.

The hostage thanked police for saving her life.

OFFICER CLEARED

In the report, the officer who shot Ryan described what he saw when he entered the cluttered salon utility room that measures about 7-by-10 feet.

The officer said Ryan was holding a lighter. He had grabbed the hostage from behind locking one arm around her neck. His fist was clenched. Ryan’s other hand was on her shoulder. He tightened his grip, pulling the hostage toward him. He flicked the lighter.

“After he tried to ignite his lighter he moved to the hostage to secure his grip on her, fist around her throat and (then) his other hand and pulled her tight,” he said in the report.

Four SWAT officers rushed into the small room. The officer who, seconds later, shot Ryan, shouted, “Police — down now,” and, “Let her go.”

The officer explained in the report: “I had to execute a maneuver known as a shield slice — separate the taker from the hostage. I moved from my left to his left, made contact with the shield, and moved to separate him. I could not get complete separation, he would not let her go.”

The officer shot Ryan in the lower left rib cage with a 40-caliber Glock service pistol. When he still wouldn’t release the hostage, he was shot again in the temple.

Officers immediately administered first aid. The Massillon Fire Department took him to Affinity Medical Center where he died minutes later.

At the end of November, a Stark County grand jury heard from witnesses and found no evidence to file criminal charges against the officer who killed Ryan, said Dennis Barr, chief Stark County prosecutor. All police-involved shootings are reviewed by a grand jury to examine whether law enforcement’s actions are justified.

The names of the four SWAT officers who rushed the utility room are not being released to protect the identity of an “uncharged suspect,” which is allowed by Ohio public records law, said Vivianne Duffrin, assistant Stark County prosecutor.

EVENTS ESCALATED

On July 26, Ryan stayed the night at a friend’s home near Uhrichsville. He was upset because he and his girlfriend of about four months had split. The next morning, he stole a car and a cellphone from the friend’s relatives.

He left a note saying he wanted to end his misery and he didn’t want to hurt anybody but himself. In the note, he also said he was sorry for what he was about to do and not to contact police or “things will get really bad,” according to a sheriff’s report.

The note stated he wanted to kill himself in front of his ex-girlfriend. He signed it, “Love, Shane.”

The mother of Ryan’s friend contacted the Harrison County Sheriff’s Office about the stolen car but did not wish to press charges. She called and texted Ryan throughout the day. Finally, he texted her later and told her he had drunk some cleaning fluid and taken some pills.

Around noon on July 28, he began walking from downtown Canton to Massillon. Ryan’s mother believes her son became even more angry and distraught during his more than eight-mile journey on foot.

Valinda Laughlin, a manager at the hair salon, remembers the day vividly.

“Help! He has my girls!” she recalled screaming as soon as she saw a police officer walking up to the hair shop.

Laughlin described the scene in a note she wrote to The Independent.

She called the event a “life-changing occurrence.”

Ryan entered the hair salon carrying a Wal-Mart bag, Laughlin recalled. He told a mother and her child who was getting her hair cut to leave.

Laughlin was confused at first because she did not know who Ryan was, but she could tell he was agitated.

Laughlin asked her customers to leave mid-haircut. One customer, to Laughlin’s relief, called 911.

“He sat down in the waiting area, reached into the bag and pulled out a long knife,” Laughlin remembered.

He kept asking to see his former girlfriend, who was on vacation, and he handed his phone to Laughlin instructing her to call his ex-girlfriend.

“The whole time he was repeatedly pounding the butt of the knife on his knee,” Laughlin wrote in the note. “A wave of terror came over me and my co-worker, and she came over beside me.”

Ryan promised he wouldn’t hurt anyone, Laughlin said. But the women were not convinced.

Trembling, she tried to calm Ryan and she talked about his children and how they loved him and needed him. Laughlin reminded Ryan of her own granddaughters and of her assistant manager’s son.

“I was trying so hard to make us ‘real’ to him and that we have people who love and care for us and he does too, all the while he was getting more angry and crying,” she wrote.

When Ryan noticed a Massillon police cruiser he became angry and accused the women of calling the police. Then, Laughlin said, he motioned with his knife to lock the door.

Laughlin calmly walked to the door but instead of locking it, she said, she ran out and blocked the door, hoping it would distract Ryan, and that the other two women could run out the back door.

But no one moved. He remained standing between the two of them. Laughlin was able to made eye contact with one of her employees and the woman took off running toward Laughlin who opened the door and yanked her out. But the other co-worker was still inside.

“All I heard next was my assistant manager saying ‘No, no, please don’t hurt me,’” Laughlin wrote. “By that time he had grabbed her and was taking her to the back. The cop was at the door then so I took off running, too.”

She and her employee ran into the AT&T business next door and locked the door behind them.

Laughlin wrote in an email: “I’m sad for his kids. I wish the story hadn’t ended that way. They say everything happens for a reason, this is one thing I’ll never understand. I still and forever will pray for him and his family.”

NEVER THE SAME

Seconds after the customer called 911, there was something about the tone of Sgt. Brian Muntean’s voice on the radio that alerted fellow officers to the seriousness of the situation.

He was driving along state Route 21 about 30 seconds from the Massillon business from where the 911 call came, so he responded first.

“Before I even walk up to the door — somebody came out screaming: ‘He’s got a knife, he’s got a gun.’ She said something about a knife or a gun and she said something about having a hostage. All I could see was some person run across the back of the store... and that was him taking her into the back room.”

Muntean called for backup and officers arrived within minutes.

“It was extremely clear that he wanted one thing and one thing only: He wanted his ex-girlfriend there,” Muntean said.

He and other officers heard the woman crying behind the closed utility room door. Ryan’s emotions were a roller coaster, and just as they thought he was calming down he would get loud again and yell and threaten. The officers took turns talking to Ryan and then decided to have one officer take over negotiations — Officer David McConnell.

McConnell has never taken classes in negotiations, but he has SWAT team training and before he was a police officer he was a social worker and administrator at Indian River Juvenile Correctional Facility.

“Our job’s not just to enforce laws, it’s to get people through hard times too,” he said. “You try to help them get through their situation.”

At least half a dozen Massillon Police officers remained in and around the building. Lt. Jason Greenfield called for the Sheriff’s Department and the Ohio Highway Patrol. He learned the Patrol’s tactical team was hours away while the Canton SWAT team could arrive in 35 to 40 minutes. He also called for the Massillon Fire Department about turning off the gas to the building.

Officer Kervin Brown was quietly positioned on the other side of the utility room wall the entire time. His eyes were fixed on the door waiting for any opportunity to rescue the hostage.

“Even when he was whispering I could hear everything he was saying,” Brown said. “I could hear her pleading for her life. The only thing I really thought about was just getting both of them out of there without anybody getting hurt, which is our ultimate goal.”

When Ryan’s former girlfriend was contacted, she arrived from Waynesburg about 20 minutes later and she was able to talk to Ryan over a cellphone and she told him to let the woman go. She wanted him to come out without hurting anyone, including himself, and get the help he needed.

SITUATION CHANGED

One of the SWAT team officers interviewed for the report said police were at a disadvantage because they weren’t sure if Ryan had pulled a gas line. They knew he was threatening to blow up the building but they didn’t know he might have tampered with the gas line or what other weapons he might have had. Any distraction device officers used might cause an explosion.

“Critical incidents are dynamic in that they can change quickly,” said Massillon’s Greenfield .

More than an hour after Ryan had entered the utility room with the hostage, Ryan told police through the closed door that he opened a gas valve on a hot water tank and he had a lighter in his hand.

While Ryan had the hostage, officers said, he was highly agitated and the hostage was crying. After negotiating for about an hour, Ryan gave officers 20 minutes to trade his ex-girlfriend for the hostage or he would blow up the building.

“His voice sounded different,” McConnell said. “He was very serious. I remember I had that concern.”

During the interview for the report, Brown said: “And he said it, he said it just like this, ‘If I don’t get her in 20 minutes, we are all gonna die ’cause I’m gonna blow this building up.”

In the report, police explained how they had exhausted all their options.

“He had some serious problems,” McConnell said. “It was a sad end for everybody. Nobody wants to see anybody get hurt, but in this situation there was no other choice. When he puts you on a time frame our concern is the safety of the hostage. It’s time to go in and get her out.”

PATTERN OF BEHAVIOR

Stark County court records show Ryan had been to prison and had several brushes with the law. He also had been treated numerous times for mental health issues.

The month before the Great Clips incident, on June 9, Ryan was sitting on a friend’s porch in the 1200 block of Erie Street S holding a small knife and threatening to harm himself, according to Massillon police. Officers who responded to the call used a stun gun to subdue Ryan, and took him to a hospital before he could injure himself, said Sgt. J. J. DiLoreto.

At that time, Ryan held a knife to his chest and told police he didn’t want to harm anyone but himself, according to a police report. Just like inside the hair salon before events escalated, he told police he wanted to see his ex-girlfriend and wanted police to pick her up and bring her there. The officers said he was exhibiting severe mood swings.

After detaining Ryan, he was transported to Affinity Medical Center for a mental health evaluation. Ryan was charged with a minor misdemeanor, disorderly conduct, which is punishable by only a fine.

In 2007, he was sentenced to four years in prison for burglary. A judge released Ryan in early 2008 and placed him in the Stark Regional Community Correction Center, followed by a three-year term of probation, which Ryan completed successfully in 2011, according to court records. Ryan also had convictions for misdemeanor assault in 2008 and an open container in 2004.

Sheriff George T. Maier said that during the investigation by his department, it was discovered that Ryan had been treated at least 28 times for mental health issues from January 2006 through July 2013.

Maier said 25 of those incidents referred to Ryan as having suicidal or homicidal thoughts. Several of the incidents included detailed plans to kill a former girlfriend, Maier said.

“He was definitely a troubled individual,” he said. “He was on a path of destruction that unfortunately led to his demise.”

Reach Christina at 330-775-1133 or christina.mccune@indeonline.com.

On Twitter: @cmccuneINDE

Mental Health and Recovery Services Board of Stark County, 330-455-6644, www.starkmhrsb.org; Crisis Intervention and Recovery Center, 2421 13th St. NW, Canton, 24-hour crisis line is 330-452-6000, non-emergency line is 330-588-2204; NAMI (National Alliance on Mental Illness) Stark County, 330-455-6264, www.namistarkcounty.org; Phoenix Rising Behavioral Healthcare and Recovery, 330-493-4553, phoenixrisingbhr.org; Quest Recovery and Prevention Services, 330-453-8252, www.questrs.org. Coleman Behavioral Health, 330-438-2400, www.colemanbh.com Community Services of Stark County, 330-455-0374 in Canton, 330-833-8516 in Massillon, www.communityservicesofstark.org; Child and Adolescent Behavioral Health, 330-454-7917, www.childandadolescent.org; Pathway Caring for Children, 330-493-0083, www.pathwaycfc.org.

Where to get help