TUSCALOOSA, Alabama -- A man was killed after being ejected from from the vehicle he was riding in, which collided with a Tuscaloosa Police Department vehicle Tuesday night, TPD's public information officer said Wednesday afternoon.



TPD's Sergeant Brent Blankley said officers responded to reports of a burglary in progress at an apartment complex on Skyland Boulevard East at 11:20 Tuesday night. Blankley said as officers were en route, the call was changed to a robbery call, meaning someone was in the apartment that was being robbed.



Blankley said officers entered the parking lot and saw the suspects getting into a white SUV, which they attempted to stop, but the suspects took off to escape the scene, striking another vehicle as they fled from the parking lot. Officers pursued them east on Skyland, Blankley said, then south on McFarland Boulevard, where the suspects collided with a police department vehicle.



One of the passengers in the SUV, Ronald Gilbert Hoover Jr., was thrown from the suspect vehicle and died at the scene. Blankley identified Hoover as a 29-year-old white man.



Hoover was found guilty of a 2008 burglary and pleaded guilty to another in 2009, according to Alabama Court Records.



Two other passengers were injured and taken to DCH Regional Medical Center, where they were treated and released, and a fourth passenger had only minor injuries, which responders treated at the scene, Blankley said. A TPd officer was also injured in the wreck and is being treated at DCH.



The driver of the SUV, James Thomas Champion, was arrested and charged with felony eluding leaving the scene of an accident and violation of probation. He pleaded guilty to a charge of resisting arrest earlier this year.



TPD's Lieutenant Brad Mason said more charges against Champion and the other passengers in the SUV may come after the originally reported robbery is investigated further.



State Troopers with the Alabama Department of Public Safety were called to the scene, and are investigating the accident.