Wires

HOUSTON

Elderly man held captive in home dies

One of three men found malnourished and held against their will in the dungeonlike garage of a Houston house has died.

A police statement Tuesday said 79-year-old William Merle Greenawalt died Thursday. Two other former captives, 59-year-old Dean Cottingham and 64-year-old John Edward Padget, are out of the hospital and in the care of Adult Protective Services.

Walter Renard Jones was arrested at the scene July 19, when the men were found. The 31-year-old Houston man remains jailed on two counts of injury to the elderly with serious bodily injury. A message left with his attorney wasn’t returned.

Police said the men told investigators they were forced to live in the garage so their captor could cash their assistance checks.

EL PASO

Murder suspect killed by police

A West Texas man accused of murdering his estranged wife and stabbing another man was shot dead by police after he confronted investigators while armed with a knife, authorities said Tuesday.

El Paso police said 38-year-old Charles Edward Morales killed 35-year-old Annette Hernandez and stabbed 41-year-old Adrian Archuleta.

Officers responded to a stabbing call about 2 a.m. Monday and were met by Archuleta. He directed them to Hernandez’s apartment, where she was found dead. The investigation revealed that both were attacked inside the apartment.

Later Monday morning, officers confronted Morales at an East El Paso house. When they saw he was armed with a knife, officers attempted to subdue him using a stun gun, police said. When that failed to stop him, an officer shot and killed Morales, police said.

HOUSTON

Court: No warrant needed for cellphone info

Authorities need only a court order and not a more stringent search warrant to obtain cellphone records that can be used to track a person’s movements, a federal appeals court ruled Tuesday.

In a 2-1 decision, a panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned an order by a Houston federal judge who had said cellphone data are constitutionally protected from intrusion and can be acquired only with a search warrant.

In 2011, U.S. District Judge Lynn Hughes had upheld a magistrate judge’s 2010 ruling that had denied a request by federal authorities in three separate criminal investigations to compel cellphone companies to provide — without a search warrant — 60 days of records for several phones.

In overturning Hughes’ order, the appeals court in New Orleans said such data is a business record that belongs to the cellphone provider. It also said its collection by authorities does not have to meet a probable cause standard as outlined under the Fourth Amendment, which protects against unlawful search and seizure and requires a search warrant.

Federal and state courts have been divided over the issue. Earlier this month, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled all law enforcement officers in that state must get a search warrant if they want access to cellphone locating data. This year, Maine and Montana passed legislation requiring authorities to obtain a search warrant to get location information from a person’s cellphone.