A knife-wielding carjack suspect led law enforcement on a chase Saturday, crashed into a pillar at the junction of the 215 and 10 freeways, and died in the flaming wreckage, according to the Sheriff's Department.



The first alleged victim called 9-1-1 before 5 p.m. Aug. 3 and told dispatch someone slashed his throat and tried to take his vehicle, in the area of Old Route 66 and Cajon Boulevard, Central Station deputies said.



The victim had a large cut to his neck and throat area and he was treated by paramedics and fire personnel.



Deputies identified the suspect as Cary Thomas Meeks, 43, of Hesperia, and the sheriff's department dispatch center in Hesperia received another 9-1-1 call from a second victim.



"He reported his vehicle being car jacked by a WMA, with a bald head, mustache and goatee," deputies said. "V2 was actually in his vehicle with the suspect and, using his cell phone, was able to provide the dispatch center with critical information about their location on the southbound 15 freeway in the Cajon Pass."



Deputies from Hesperia spotted the vehicle in the area of the 215 Freeway and Devore Road.



"It was being driven by the car jacking suspect who still had V2 inside the vehicle," deputies said. "A deputy from the Central Patrol Station, along with a deputy from the Hesperia Police Station, began following the suspect and attempted to stop him by activating the emergency lights and sirens."



The suspect then stopped on the freeway in the area of the Palm Avenue-Kendall Avenue exit and let the second victim out of the vehicle, deputies said.



"The suspect made statements to V2 indicating he was going to kill himself," deputies said. "The suspect ignored . . . attempts to stop him and sped away in an attempt to flee by driving at a high rate of speed. The suspect began driving in an unsafe manner, increasing his speeds to over 100 mph."



The pursuit continued on the southbound 215 from Devore through San Bernardino to the Guthrie Interchange at the 215 and 10 freeways, deputies said.



At that point, the suspect "maneuvered his vehicle from the far left lane and steered it directly into a concrete bridge pillar supporting the connecting road from the westbound 10 freeway to the southbound 215 freeway" and "the vehicle immediately caught fire," deputies said.



The suspect vehicle was traveling at speeds in excess of 100 mph when he collided with the bridge pillar, deputies said. Pursuing law enforcement did not see any indication the suspect tried to slow his vehicle, such as brake lights, and believe he continued at high speed into the pillar.



"Pursuing deputies approached the burning vehicle in an attempt to render aid to the suspect but were held back by the intense heat of the fire," Central Station personnel said.



After the fire was out and the suspect's body was removed from the vehicle, deputies recovered a California driver's license issued to Cary Thomas Meeks.



A records check showed Meeks was on felony probation for being an ex-felon in possession of a firearm. Meeks was also "out of custody on release participating in the PRCS Community Supervision Program for the same criminal charges," deputies said.



The attempted murder victim was identified as Ricardo Guerrera, 61, of Fontana. The carjack victim who was let out during the pursuit was identified as John A. Sampson, 73, of San Bernardino.



Anyone with more info was urged to call Central Station Sgt. G. Wheeler at (909) 387-3545.

