A day in court was all the family of Jermaine McBean wanted.

A chance to have a jury hear the facts. A chance for a jury, not just a judge, to determine whether McBean was pointing a realistic-looking but unloaded air rifle, a BB gun, at Broward deputies on a summer afternoon in 2013.

A chance for a jury, not just a judge, to weigh whether Deputy Peter Peraza, relatively new to his role in his road patrol assignment, was justified in opening fire on McBean when more seasoned deputies did not.

It won’t happen in a criminal courtroom.

Peraza was charged with manslaughter, but Broward Circuit Judge Michael Usan dismissed the case in 2016 when he found that Peraza acted in self-defense. It was the first time the stand your ground law was successfully invoked by a law enforcement officer in the line of duty in Florida.

That decision left McBean’s family with one final recourse — a federal, civil lawsuit naming Peraza and the Broward Sheriff’s Office as defendants. Last week, a federal judge dismissed the case against the sheriff’s office, but he allowed the suit against Peraza to proceed.

Jermaine McBean on his motorcycle in Delray Beach on May 31, 2013. He was shot and killed two months later.

Both decisions are likely to be appealed, and the case is likely to hang over both Peraza and McBean’s family for the foreseeable future.

Speaking during a recent phone interview, McBean’s mother said all she wants is for a jury to clear her son’s name, to declare his death an injustice for which someone must be held accountable, not a tragedy for which he only had himself to blame.

“He was not a criminal,” McBean’s mother, Jennifer Young, said. “He shouldn’t have died like one. Someone has to pay.”

It’s not the money Young is after, she said. “It’s about the lying and trying to make my son out to be a horrible person. That is what I am upset about. We want the world to realize who he was — a productive person who was cut down before his time. Nobody knew him until he was killed.”

The July 31, 2013, fatal shooting was Broward’s entry into the growing national “Black Lives Matter” debate. He was a computer systems engineer with no criminal record, raised to respect police, according to his family, and never posing a threat to anyone.

He was a graduate of Pace University in New York, with a master’s degree in information systems. He was working at Zimmerman Advertising in Fort Lauderdale.

On the day he died, he bought an air rifle at a pawn shop near the apartment complex where he lived in Oakland Park. The story has become familiar, even as some of the details have faded in the retelling. But those details, say McBean’s mother and brother, are where the truth resides.

McBean was walking home with the rifle slung behind his neck, over both shoulders. The image worried some, and 911 was called. The deputies who responded ordered McBean to stop and to put the weapon down as he walked through the Green Tree Apartments complex, where he lived. Children were frolicking in a nearby swimming pool. McBean ignored the law enforcement commands.

Those are the only facts on which all sides agree.

Peraza and the responding deputies said McBean stopped at one point and turned toward the officers, moving the air rifle into a firing position. A moment of hesitation could have meant a dead civilian or a dead cop, Peraza would later testify. There was no other choice. He opened fire.

Eric Schwartzreich, the lawyer who represented Peraza in the criminal proceeding, warned against the public and the courts second-guessing officers who don’t have the luxury of hindsight when they make life-or-death decisions. Peraza had no way of knowing whether the rifle was real or loaded, Schwartzreich said in court, and lives were at stake if it was.

That was the narrative Usan accepted as fact. The McBean family’s lawyer, David Schoen, blasted Usan for disregarding testimony that contradicted that narrative.

“It used to be, if there’s a dispute about the facts, the judge did not find the facts,” he said. “That is the jury’s duty.”

There was the 911 caller who testified that he never saw McBean point a gun at the deputies.

There was the fact that McBean had already passed multiple people on his way home, and had already passed the swimming pool at his complex, when he was shot.

There was the fact that of the three deputies interacting with McBean, only Peraza opened fire. “If he’s pointing a weapon at police, why is only one officer firing back?” said McBean’s brother, Alfred.

One question no one could answer is why McBean would have wanted the realistic-looking air rifle in the first place.

He wasn’t a gun enthusiast, his family members said. No one ever got the chance to ask him. All that is certain is that he bought it from a pawn shop a short walk from his neighborhood. Another shop, across the street, sold real guns, McBean’s brother said.

In this file photo, Peter Peraza demonstrates how he says Jermaine McBean pointed his rifle during their 2013 confrontation. He pointed the rifle at Assistant State Attorney Tim Donnelly as Broward Circuit Judge Michael Usan looked on.

Peraza, other deputies and use-of-force experts told Usan that it was impossible to distinguish between the air rifle, which fires pellets, and a real, more lethal one.

Another issue raised during the investigation was whether McBean had a rational explanation for not responding to the police.

“Jermaine is not a person who would disregard the law and ignore commands being given to him,” his brother said.

He was, however, a person who loved music, and a pair of earbuds was photographed next to him by a neighbor who lived at Green Tree.

According to an incident report, McBean did not die right away. His last words to the deputies who tended to him still haunt his mother.

“He told them, ‘It was only a BB gun,'” Young recalled. “I would like justice for him, for the beautiful person that he was.”