LeighAnne Manwarren

A man who was convicted of assault and battery on a police officer died in police custody over the weekend.

Oral Allen Murray, 28, died Saturday while officers were trying to arrest him at a gas station near NW 10 and N Meridian Avenue, police Capt. Dexter Nelson said.

Nelson also identified the three officers involved in the arrest as officer Michael Callaway, two years of service; officer Wilner Laguerre, five years of service; and Sgt. Renaldo Sanchez, 11 years of service. They are assigned to the Hefner Division.

Police were dispatched about 4:40 p.m. Saturday in response to reports of a man forcing his way into occupied vehicles and assaulting people, Nelson said.

“He was able to make entry into at least two vehicles. After making entry, he assaulted the occupants inside and did not try to leave with those vehicles,” he said.

The officers found Murray trying to force his way into a Shell station as the clerk was struggling to keep him out. Police used physical force to take him to the ground, Nelson said.

No weapons or Tasers were used, he said.

“The officers did not use any blunt objects. They did not use any kicks or punches on this individual. They basically wrestled him to the ground and held him until they could handcuff him,” Nelson said.

Murray was handcuffed and placed in a patrol car, where he began to show signs of distress, at which point police called for an ambulance, Nelson said.

He said the man was taken to a hospital, where he died.

Witnesses told officers Murray said he wanted to cool off while he was forcing him way into the occupied vehicles.

“We believe that he was possibly suffering from the effects of some sort of narcotics, but we will, again, have to wait for the medical examiner makes the determination,” Nelson said.

The homicide unit is conducting a criminal investigation, and internal affairs will review the investigation, Nelson said.

Man had criminal past

Murray was convicted of driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol and assault and battery on a police officer in January 2011 in Payne County, according to the state Corrections Department website. He was released from prison in March.

Murray also was arrested on drug complaints and public drunkenness complaints, according to Payne County court documents.

Nelson said Murray had no record with Oklahoma City police before Saturday's incident.