OAKLAND — A 37-year-old well-known member of the local Mien community died from injuries suffered early Sunday when a pickup truck was broadsided by a speeding SUV being chased by Alameda County sheriff’s deputies in East Oakland, authorities said.

Killed was Kao Saephan, of Oakland, who died Monday night at Highland Hospital.

The 57-year-old Oakland man who was driving the Toyota truck remains hospitalized in critical condition. His name was not released but relatives said he was Saephan’s cousin.

Gerardo Ulises Rodriguez, 27, of Lincoln, who police say was driving the Porsche Cayenne that hit the truck, was charged Monday with reckless driving causing great bodily injury or death, evading police and hit and run, all felonies. Authorities said they will now try to get the charges against Rodriguez amended to include murder.

Oakland police, who are investigating the incident, said Alameda County deputies saw the Porsche speeding about 4:45 a.m. Sunday in the 3800 block of International Boulevard. It is not known what Rodriguez was doing in Oakland. The car is registered to someone else but was not reported stolen, authorities said.

Deputies began chasing the Porsche in their patrol car on city streets at speeds in excess of 60 mph, police said.

Police said that less than a minute after the chase started, the Porsche failed to stop at a stop sign in the northbound lanes of 41st Avenue and slammed into the passenger side of the Toyota, which was going eastbound on Foothill Boulevard.

Rodriguez tried to flee on foot and fought with deputies before he was arrested, police said. He is being held without bail at Santa Rita Jail.

A relative of Saephan’s, who did not want her name used, said Saephan and the other man were on their way to pick up a third person so they could get supplies for a cultural ceremony later Sunday.

She said Saephan was a naturalized citizen who came to the United States from Southeast Asia when he was a young boy. He was married and the father of five children ranging in age from 18 to 2.

The cousin said Saephan’s death “is a total shock to everyone. He was the type of person who leaves an everlasting impression. He would never say no to anyone. It’s a great loss to the community.”

Funeral services are pending.