Investigation into Incident at 5725 Fondren

August 6, 2013 - Houston police are investigating an incident in which two HPD officers discharged their duty weapons at an armed suspect at 5725 Fondren about 6:15 p.m. on Monday (August 5).



The male suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. His identity is pending verification by the Harris County Institute of Forensic Sciences.



The two officers who discharged their weapons were not injured. HPD Officer M. Alanis was sworn in as an officer in September, 2009 and is assigned to the Midwest Patrol Division. Senior Police Officer E. Newman was sworn in as an officer in May, 1992 and is assigned to the Tactical Operations Division.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant R. Rodriguez and Officer M. Burrow reported:



HPD patrol officers responded to a discharge of firearms call at 5800 Fondren involving a Hispanic male in a green SUV. Upon arrival, the officers observed a suspect matching the listed description and attempted to detain him.



The suspect then fled on foot. During the ensuing foot pursuit, the suspect produced a pistol and fired shots at the officers. Officer Alanis, fearing for her safety and that of her fellow officer, then returned fire, missing the suspect. The suspect then fled behind a nearby strip center where he hid.

Officer Newman responded to the scene and, with the assistance of his K-9, located the suspect. When the K-9 made contact with the suspect, he first attempted to shoot the dog. However, upon seeing Officer Newman, the suspect then pointed his gun at him. Officer Newman, fearing for his life, then discharged his duty weapon, striking the suspect.



Houston Fire Department paramedics responded to the scene and pronounced him dead. Investigators recovered the suspect's weapon at the scene.



As is customary in officer-involved shooting incidents in the Houston city limits, this case is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's Office.



KJS/VHS 8-6-13

Inc. #097994313