Shooting on Slaughter Road, Source: WAFF News

Brent Egan Dotson. Source: Horry County Sheriff's Office.

MYRTLE BEACH, SC (WMBF) – Brent Egan Dotson is number one on Horry County's list of most wanted men for failure to appear for a lewd act committed on a child under 16. Horry County Sheriff's Office Sgt. Jeff Benton confirmed that Dotson was shot and killed in Huntsville, AL on Friday morning.

Huntsville police say the shooting happened at the Mountain View Mobile Home Park on Slaughter Road near Highway 72 in Huntsville Friday morning.

Officers received a call about a suspicious person at the trailer park sometime after 8 a.m., and police found a man at the premises and questioned him shortly after they arrived. The man then produced a gun and fired a shot. An officer fired a shot in return.

Dotson was transported to Huntsville Hospital and died around 9 a.m. Police are investigating whether his injury was self-inflicted or from the officer.

The officer involved was not injured. As with any officer-involved shooting, he has been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation.

Witnesses said the scene was traumatizing, especially for children who were around at the time. "We know a lot of these kids," said resident Samantha Perry. "It's very scary, especially with my kids not knowing what kind of people are around." Perry said the sounds of gunfire terrified her two children.

The Horry County Sheriff's Office has been working closely with the Huntsville, AL Police Department and their coroner's office.

Dotson's last known address was on Homestown Road in Myrtle Beach. Horry County Sheriff's Office Lieutenant Cox said people who are wanted sometimes try to blend in with tourist and the transient populations along Ocean Boulevard in Myrtle Beach. Some leave the state, and depending upon the severity of the crime, the Solicitor's Office will grant them access to chase them down.

WMBF News featured him on "Horry County's Most Wanted" in January.

Copyright 2013 WMBF News. All rights reserved.