This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.—More information has surfaced about the man shot and killed by police after they said he pointed his gun at an officer.

Brent Walls, 21, was shot and killed by police around 1:30 a.m. Friday. Officers were dispatched to the scene after a report of an attempted carjacking.

Authorities said Walls tried to carjack a woman who was unloading her vehicle in the 2400 block of South Shelby Street. As she resisted, police said Walls fired a bullet through her back window, before fleeing the scene on foot.

Fox59 spoke with Walls’ ex-girlfriend, who stated she spoke to Walls just an hour before he was killed.

“He said he was on his way home,” said Brook Pierce. “And I wake up and find out that he’s dead.”

Officers set up a perimeter to capture Walls after he fled. Police said a K9 officer located Walls, who was hiding under trash in an alley behind South Barth Avenue.

“I was sound asleep and all of a sudden I heard ‘pop pop pop,'” said resident Nell Gregson.

Police said an officer opened fire behind Gregson’s home after Walls pointed his loaded gun at him. Investigators will run ballistics tests to see if the weapon is tied to any other crimes.

Walls has a criminal record, including assault and narcotics arrests.

“It’s very scary… and this is a quiet neighborhood, so I guess it’s a little unusual,” said Gregson.

Fox59 also uncovered Walls’ father, Charles Walls, was killed in a south side shooting in June. Police said that case remains unsolved.

“He kept tellin’ me he’s tired of being broke,” said Pierce. “He just lost his dad and he has nothing except me. I just didn’t think he’d do that.”

Walls’ autopsy results have not been released, so it’s not publicly known at this time how many shots the officer fired. Police said it’s likely that officer will be placed on administrative leave until the investigation is complete, which is common procedure.