By Bill McCleery

A suspect who died Thursday during a confrontation with Indianapolis police had a criminal record that dated back to 2003, when he was first arrested as a 12-year-old.

The suspect — whom police identified today as Jeffrey B. Lilly Jr., 22, Indianapolis — is named in some capacity in 33 criminal incident reports, according to an Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department database. He has previously been arrested on allegations of domestic battery, armed robbery, threats to the lives of others and shoplifting. He also is named in drug investigations.

Thursday’s incident occurred about 8 p.m. in the 2200 block of Station Street after Lilly — whom police were targeting in a drug investigation — fled from officers. He fell during the chase, police said, and resisted as officers tried to arrest him. An officer then used a Taser to subdue him.

Lilly grew unresponsive once he was arrested and soon was pronounced dead.

Police believe Lilly may have swallowed drugs during the chase. Homicide detectives and IMPD’s Internal Affairs Unit are investigating the death, which police said is standard for such a case.

After Lilly died on Thursday, some of the man’s acquaintances got into a confrontation with police on the scene.

“Family members and others showed up as this incident was being investigated,” said IMPD Lt. Chris Bailey. “Tempers and emotions got a little out of hand. IMPD officers remained professional and calm, despite being taunted and threatened by the crowds. The IMPD Event Response Group was called in to help.”

Members of the Ten Point Coalition also were called to the scene, Bailey said. The coalition, an anti-violence outreach group, is typically called to chaotic crime scenes to calm down family members or friends of a victim.

“Shortly thereafter, the crowds thinned out and order was restored,” Bailey said. “The IMPD officers and the Ten Point volunteers there last night did an outstanding job of keeping things from getting out of control and they should be commended.”

Members of the Ten Point Coalition were called to the scene later. The coalition, an anti-violence outreach group, is typically called to chaotic crime scenes to calm down family members or friends of a victim.

Call Star reporter Bill McCleery at (317) 444-6083. Follow him on Twitter: @BillMcCleery01.