The incident occurred around 1:30 a.m. in the 1300 block of East 58th Street.

Police responded to a call about a disturbance at a residence. When they arrived, a woman said the man who had caused the disturbance had left.

As officers were about to leave, a car drove alongside the patrol car, and the driver pointed a handgun at the officers, a police spokesman said.

The officers fired several shots at the man, wounding him. The gunman was taken to a hospital, where he later died.

The man's identity had not been released Sunday evening. The officers, who were not identified, were placed on administrative leave pending an investigation of the incident.

Man shot by officers had 3 guns, police say



Copyright 2001 The Kansas City Star Co.

All Rights Reserved

Kansas City Star...11/20/2001

Kansas City police on Monday identified a man fatally shot by officers and said the man had three guns. Two officers shot Clifton Isaac, 41, on Sunday after he aimed one of the guns at police, said Police Spokesman Bob Murphy.



Murphy and police reports released Monday gave this account: Issac's 38-year-old wife called police about 2 a.m. Sunday to the 1300 block of E. 58th Street to report a domestic disturbance. When officers arrived, she said the armed man who caused the disturbance was gone. The officers waited as the woman collected her belongings with her children, ages 12 and 19. A car pulled alongside the driver's side of the parked patrol car. The driver pointed a gun at the officers, and the officer in the passenger seat of the patrol car jumped out. Both officers shot the man. Homicide Sgt. Rick Smith said the shooting occurred within seconds of the man pulling his gun. Smith declined to release the number of shots fired. An ambulance took Isaac to Research Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. An autopsy was performed Monday. Police later found three guns belonging to Isaac at the scene of the shooting. Isaac's criminal record showed he was convicted twice in 1998 in Kansas City Municipal Court for simple assault. Murphy said Isaac had a history of domestic violence and police had been

called to the couple's home before. Isaac's wife declined to comment Monday, and her family members also declined to talk. The officers are on routine paid leave while the shooting is being investigated.

Send mail to webmaster@theppsc.org with questions or comments about this web site.

©2004 The Police Policy Studies Council. All rights reserved. A Steve Casey design.



