This story was updated at 2:43 p.m. to include details of two prior criminal cases involving Edwards.

SPRINGFIELD – State police have identified a 23-year-old man who died after being shot by a state trooper during an early Sunday morning traffic stop on Interstate 291 as Wayne R. Edwards ll of Springfield.



Investigators continue to probe the incident, which ended when the wounded Edwards drove eastbound onto Interstate 291 and crashed about two-tenths of a mile away.



Police afterwards found two loaded handguns inside the suspect's BMW -- one on the driver's seat and the other underneath it, according to a release issued by state police. Both guns had obliterated serial numbers.



Hampden District Attorney Mark Mastroianni declined to comment on the shooting Monday morning, saying only that it is still under investigation.



The incident began at 12:22 a.m. when the trooper, southbound on Interstate 91, was passed by a 2002 BMW 320I traveling at a high rate of speed, state police said.



The trooper, who joined the force last year, activated his emergency lights and pulled the suspect over near the merger of Interstate 91 and Interstate 291. The BMW ultimately stopped in the eastbound breakdown lane of Interstate 291 near Exit 2.



When the trooper, who is attached to the Springfield barracks, approached the BMW and asked for the suspect's license and registration, the suspect became combative and a physical altercation ensued between the two men.



During the altercation, the trooper discharged his service weapon, striking the suspect, state police said.



At this point, the female passenger got out of the BMW, injuring her arm in the process.



After the weapons discharge, the trooper reported his situation using his portable radio and returned to his cruiser.



Meanwhile, the wounded suspect in the BMW drove away eastbound. The trooper followed and the BMW crashed into a protection barrier at the base of Exit 2 about two-tenths of a mile away.



The trooper called for assistance and began to administer first aid along with other responding officers.



Both Edwards and the female were taken to Baystate Medical Center. Edwards was pronounced dead and the woman was treated for an upper arm laceration and released. There is no evidence, state police said, that she was shot.



Investigators have not released the names of the trooper, who is out on a standard administrative leave, or the woman.



Mastroianni, asked if the woman faces any charges said "That's under investigation."



State police have issued five separate releases in wake of the shooting. Earlier versions erroneously indicated that the initial stop and shooting occurred on Interstate 91.

Police have not released information about what led to the traffic stop.

According to court documents filed in connection with a pending drug case in which Edwards is charged with selling PCP, Edwards only had a learner's permit to drive as of May, 2013.

In that case, Springfield police detectives arrested Edwards on May 10 in the area of 90 High St. after they allegedly observed him selling the drug. A police report included in the case docket explains that detectives first spotted Edwards sitting in a green BMW sedan. While in the car he received a text or phone call and then entered a nearby apartment building for a short period of time.



During the arrest, police confiscated a plastic bag containing PCP and $650 in cash, according to the report. Edwards was charged with possession of a Class B drug with intent to distribute (PCP) and violation of a drug-free school zone (the High School of Commerce). He was also charged with unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle. He denied the charges in district court and was ordered held in lieu of $2,500. That case was pending at the time of his death and will be dismissed.

The drug arrest came after Edwards pleaded guilty in 2007 to accessory after the fact to manslaughter in the 2005 shooting death of 23-year-old David Blanks of Springfield.

At the time of the Blanks murder, Edwards was 15. Prosecutors said he was riding in a car driven by Timothy A. Hosey on Sept. 27, 2005 when Hosey fired on a group of people. Blanks died of his injuries and three other people were wounded.

Although Edwards was initially charged with the murder as a joint venture with Hosey, Assistant District Attorney Donna S. Donato told Hampden Superior Court Judge Judd J. Carhart that the state believed Edwards was not aware of Hosey's intentions prior to the shooting. Donato said that Edwards was charged with accessory after the fact of manslaughter because he did not immediately cooperate with investigators.

Hosey, of Springfield, has been sentenced to 15 to 20 years in state prison for the slaying of Blank. Edwards was sentenced to three- to five-years in state prison in the case.