Advertisement Man who died after being shocked with stun gun identified Sheriff's office investigating to see if man had mental issues Share Copy Link Copy

A Sycamore Township man died overnight after he was shocked by a stun gun during a struggle with sheriff's deputies.Deputies were called just before 3 a.m. Tuesday to a condominium on Barrington Court after a woman called to say someone was on her back porch breaking windows.Deputies Joseph Huddleston, Matthew Alexander and Willy Dalid said they found 59-year-old Gary Roell still on the porch, nude from the waist down.Three deputies moved to take Roell into custody, but they said Roell fought them, punching Huddleston in the face.One of the three deputies deployed a stun gun and shocked Roell once in the backside, allowing the deputies to secure him. But a short time later, the deputy observed that Roell wasn't breathing and began CPR.Roell was rushed to Bethesda North Hospital where he was later pronounced dead.The sheriff's office said late Tuesday morning that Roell's own condominium was in total disarray, and that Roell had damaged windows, vehicles and landscaping around the nearby condos.Deputies initially said it appeared Roell was under the influence of drugs or alcohol, but the sheriff's office said they were investigating to see if Roell had mental issues that may have been responsible for his behavior.The Hamilton County Coroner's Office will investigate Roell's death, but the sheriff's office said it appeared that deputies followed proper procedures.Roell worked for 17 years as a reservationist with American Airlines and is married and has six adult sons, family members said.He played guitar and sang at various locations around the area, including Graeter's.Roell's son, 38-year-old Gary Roell Jr., said that his dad has battled schizoaffective disorder for 30 years, which gave him delusional and paranoid thoughts, and had stopped taking his medication in the last month or so. "He wasn't the crazed, half-naked guy banging on neighbors' houses and smashing windows. That wasn't who he was," the younger Roell said. "That was the result of untreated illness." Roell said his father didn't experience symptoms of his illness until about 30 years ago and went through bouts of not taking medication, sometimes leading to hospitalization in psychiatric treatment facilities.On his meds, Roell said that his dad was the best father he could ever ask for, but that off of them, he could become combative, fearful and paranoid that someone was trying to hurt him or his loved ones. Roell said complicating matters was the fact that Roell's second wife of nearly 20 years – a nurse – was on a church-sponsored mission trip Tuesday in New Jersey, and that his father had recently begun experiencing problems with his physical health, including high blood pressure, swelling feet and weight gain. "He wanted to be a kind and giving and caring person; that's who he was," Roell said. "The problem, though, is when you're thinking nothing but paranoid thoughts, you become combative, push everyone away, you don't want to talk to anyone - that was a side of him that he could become. "I think the illness eventually got the best of him," he said. At least one other confrontation between police and a mentally ill suspect happened in the area recently. On July 24, Cincinnati police officers used stun guns three times to try to subdue 32-year-old Roger Ramundo as he pulled a gun and fired a wild shot at a bar, not hitting anyone. When Ramundo tried to raise the gun again, an officer fatally fired two shots into his back. In 2009, an unarmed, mentally ill man died during a confrontation with police in Mason after being shocked with a stun gun seven times, kicked and repeatedly struck with a baton – all mostly after he had fallen face-first onto cement and stopped moving.