Police were justified in shooting and killing a Rapho Township man who reportedly pointed a pellet rifle at a police officer, according to the Lancaster County District Attorney's Office.

The district attorney's office released its finding shortly after the completion of an investigation conducted by state police into the Aug. 12 shooting of Steven M. Brill during a confrontation with Manheim Borough officers. The report cited Brill's repeated disregard of the officers' commands for him to put the weapon away and surrender, culminating in Brill pointing what appeared to be a rifle at one of the officers, the district attorney's report states.

"While tragic, this encounter was initiated entirely by Brill, who had numerous opportunities to peacefully end the encounter," the ruling reads in part. "He instead chose to escalate the situation and gave the officers no choice but to use lethal force."

The report also mentions four incidents dating back to November 2012 in which Brill, 46, told police he intended to kill himself. In all four instances, police admitted Brill into a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation, the report states.

During a 911 call Brill made to police just prior to his shooting, he allegedly told dispatchers "They'll never take me alive."

A short time later, when officers confronted Brill just before 9 p.m. outside his home at 1492 Old Line Road, he reportedly shouted "Who am I going to shoot first?" while waving the pellet rifle around, the report states.

"The officers involved showed restraint in the confrontation with Brill," the report states. "Although Brill possessed the weapon during the initial encounter and at times waved the weapon in the direction of the officers, the officers did not regard his motions as purposefully targeting them at that time and thus did not fire."

The case, which remained open until state police could finish its report, was closed and the three officers involved in the call were cleared of any wrongdoing, said District Attorney Craig W. Stedman.