Advertisement 1 dead, 2 arrested in police-involved shooting in Woodlawn Police called to area for reports of burglary in progress Share Copy Link Copy

A burglary suspect was killed and two others were injured in a police-involved shooting in Woodlawn that was prompted by a 911 call by the homeowner.Baltimore County officers were called to a home in the 5400 block of Dogwood Road at 4:22 p.m. Tuesday after they said the homeowner caught three men breaking into his house.According to police Cpl. John Wachter, the first arriving officer "noticed two subjects exiting the home, running towards a minivan and getting into that minivan."Wachter said as an officer tried to apprehend the pair, he ended up being dragged by the vehicle, which didn't stop."The officer reaches in his arm to try to stop the vehicle. The driver grabs him, holds him to the car and starts driving forward," Wachter said.Investigators said the officer was dragged alongside the van and, fearing for his life, fired his service weapon at the driver to force him to stop. Police said two backup officers also shot at the two men in the van.Police said the minivan crashed nearby into a parked vehicle. The driver, identified as 23-year-old Allen Harvey Jr., and the passenger were hit by gunfire, investigators said.Harvey Jr. was taken to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma, where he was pronounced dead, while the passenger was taken to Sinai Hospital, where his condition is still unknown, police said.The officer who was dragged by the minivan had minor injuries. He and the two other police officers involved are from the Woodlawn precinct. They were all placed on administrative duty while the shooting is reviewed.Police said the third burglary suspect, identified as Leon Harvey, 54, ran into a wooded area near the home and hid, but K-9 units were able to find him. Sky Team 11 Capt. Roy Taylor reported he was bitten by a dog.Police said Allen Harvey Jr. is the nephew of Harvey, who was charged with burglary and related offenses. He is being held at the Baltimore County Detention Center on $200,000 bail. The third person involved remains hospitalized, and charges will be filed upon his release from treatment, police said.The identity of the third man and the names of the officers involved in the incident have not yet been released.Meanwhile, residents of the quiet Woodlawn community stood by in disbelief."I heard everything. It could've been 10 shots fired into the vehicle," said witness Michael Jones. "I was stunned and shocked, to say the least."As investigators catalogued the shell casings, they said they came across a black bag in front of the house that they believe was stolen property the would-be burglars dropped as they tried to get away.Investigators are still determining if the house was targeted for burglary or if the act was random.