Brittany Fleck

Denzel Washington (Source: BCDC)

Chief Cochran addresses the media.

The Hanahan Police Department released dash camera video Friday of an officer-involved shooting that left a suspect dead following a routine traffic stop earlier this week.

HANAHAN, SC (WCSC) - Officers say 22-year-old Travis Miller, from Summerville, shot at officers before being shot by authorities. Miller died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Charleston County Coroner's Office.

Hanahan Police Chief Mike Cochran said an officer attempted to stop a motorist for a window tint violation a little before midnight Monday on Loftis Road near Yeamans Hall Road, but the driver didn't stop.

Cochran said the driver led police onto Remount Road, before finally stopping on Dakota Street. Police then smelled marijuana coming from the vehicle.

When police ordered the occupants to step out of the vehicle, one of the passengers took off running, and officers followed, the video shows.

A camera from another officer's car shows cops chasing Miller down Dakota Street.

During the ensuing foot chase, Cochran said the suspect started firing shots at police over his shoulder, and the officers returned gunshots, wounding the suspect. Neighbors said they heard eight to ten shots fired.

Cochran said Miller ran into the woods and again fired shots at officers, who fired back.

A short time later, police found the suspect dead in a wooded area, according to Cochran.

The chief said before finding the suspect, they made repeated calls for him to come out. When he did not, officers used a flash bang grenade and went into the woods.

The chief said the suspect had a gun on him, and believes he ran because he didn't want to be patted down.

Cochran said the three other occupants in the car were arrested. Robert Terrell Holmes, Denzel Washington, and Brittany Fleck were all charged with disorderly conduct and possession of marijuana. Holmes, the driver, was cited for a window tint violation.

Cochran said Washington was also wanted by the Charleston County Sheriff's Office for contempt of court and failure to appear on drug charges. Fleck was also wanted by Charleston police for failure to appear in court, according to Cochran.

The chief said Washington and Robert were long-time drug offenders, and he "understood" Miller was recently released from prison.



"You never know what you're dealing with in a traffic stop," said Cochran.

Three officers were involved in the traffic stop, and all three have been placed on administrative duty pending the outcome of an investigation by the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division.

The Coastal Crisis Chaplaincy will be de-briefing officers and dispatchers involved, Cochran added.

Copyright 2013 WCSC. All rights reserved.