A 52-year-old Troy man was fatally shot late Tuesday by Troy police officers responding to a call of domestic violence at an apartment on the city’s east side.

Al Pickett, 52, died at the scene, the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation said in limited information released Wednesday. The BCI said it was asked by Troy Police Chief Charles Phelps to handle the investigation.

Pickett received multiple gunshot wounds, Miami County Coroner Steve Huffman said. An autopsy was being performed Wednesday.

Troy police responding to the reported domestic incident around 10:15 p.m. were heard on police scanner traffic screaming to someone to drop a gun. A short time later, they asked Miami County 911 dispatchers to send an ambulance.

Officer Matt Mosier, 36,who has been with the department 10 years, and Zach Mumford, 28, a six-year employee, were placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, Patrick Titterington, Troy’s service and safety director, said.

Troy Police Chief Charles Phelps said it is unclear whether Pickett fired any shots. Mosier and Mumford were not injured.

The 911 center recorded two calls from the Staunton Commons apartment where the shooting occurred outside. On the recordings, a man and woman can be heard arguing and, dispatchers in the background told police there apparently was a physical altercation.

The woman can be heard saying, “You don’t have to do this” and saying the two could work things out. The man can be heard saying, “I’ve got nothin to lose.”

As she pleaded with the man not to hurt her, the woman also told him she planned to drop a protection order naming him.

Emergency responders taking the woman to the hospital said she was believed to have suffered stab wounds. She was taken to Miami Valley Hospital, where she was treated and later released.

Pickett and the woman were scheduled to be in Miami County Common Pleas Court today for a full hearing on her request for a protection order. A temporary order was issued by a court magistrate Aug. 12.

In the protection order request Aug. 11, the woman wrote Pickett allegedly slapped her and pushed her over a wheel chair to the ground. He also “threatened to kill me,” the woman wrote in the civil protection order request.

Pickett was ordered by the magistrate to stay one block from those named as protected by the order, to immediately vacate the Staunton Commons apartment and to immediately surrender all deadly weapons.