A 33-year-old Hemet man who died last month after a struggle with deputies in Perris had been hallucinating and trying to flag down an officer for help shortly before the incident, his family said.

Riverside County sheriff’s officials have said Robert Lee Palmer had tried to carjack several vehicles on the Ramona Expressway early Aug. 22 before deputies found him running at the Indian Avenue intersection.

They said he ignored deputies’ orders and fought with them when they tried to take him into custody.

Palmer was pronounced dead Aug. 24 at Riverside County Regional Medical Center in Moreno Valley.

Palmer’s cousin, Summer Phillips, of Redlands, said she and her family question the carjacking allegations and believe deputies used excessive force to subdue Palmer, who was unarmed.

Palmer is described in jail booking records as 5-foot-10, 130 pounds.

Phillips said Palmer appeared to have been badly beaten and suffered severe spinal cord injuries. She said her family has hired someone to perform an independent autopsy on her cousin.

Sheriff’s officials said the case is under investigation and have declined to comment on the family’s allegations.

Phillips acknowledged that Palmer had a history of drug use and a criminal record. But, she said, he also had experienced mental problems ever since he sustained head injuries in a confrontation with police a few years ago in San Bernardino County.

On Aug. 22, Phillips said, Palmer was riding in a car with his brother and a friend when he started “freaking out” and yelling that someone was after him. His brother and friend tried to calm him down and stopped the car, she said. Palmer got out and, at one point, tried unsuccessfully to flag down a passing patrol car for help.

“He was waving his arms yelling, ‘Help me!’ ” Phillips said.

She said Palmer ran away and, before his companions could find him, got into the struggle with deputies at Indian Avenue.

Phillips said her cousin had been arrested by deputies a few days before his death. In that case, too, he thought someone was trying to harm him and was running through a neighborhood yelling for someone to call the police.

Jail records show Palmer was arrested Aug. 19 in Menifee on suspicion of trespassing and being under the influence of a controlled substance.

He was released the same day.

Sheriff’s officials have not responded to a request for the names of the deputies involved in the Aug. 22 incident or said whether any deputies were placed on leave.

Court records show Palmer has several prior convictions for charges including drug-related offenses, auto theft and making criminal threats.

Follow Sarah Burge on Twitter @sarahkburge or online at blog.pressenterprise.com/crime-blotter