Henry C. Taylor

SHARE

By Jamie Satterfield of the Knoxville News Sentinel

The shooting death of a homeowner by a Blount County deputy was avoidable but not an unconstitutional abuse of power, a federal judge ruled Tuesday.

U.S. District Judge Pamela Reeves has granted Blount County Sheriff's Office Deputy Ernest "Ti" Ragland immunity from a civil-rights lawsuit filed in the August 2013 shooting death of retired military veteran and longtime postal worker Henry C. Taylor Jr.

The grant of immunity at the request of attorney Gary Prince drops Ragland from the federal lawsuit, although attorney Gregory P. Isaacs, who represents Taylor's widow, can still pursue negligence claims in the state court system under the Tennessee Governmental Tort Liability Act, Reeves ruled. The Tuesday ruling does not affect Blount County government, which remains a defendant in the wrongful-death federal litigation.

Taylor was inside a detached garage he and his wife, Cynthia Ridinger, owned on Mentor Road in Louisville when Taylor's path crossed Ragland's with fatal consequences. Both men were armed. Both were on the hunt for burglars who had stolen nearly $40,000 in goods from the garage and a nearby house on the couple's property the day before.

Ragland did not identify himself as a law enforcer, although he initially claimed he did, prior court rulings have shown. Other details of his account also have changed over time, but Reeves opined one thing hasn't changed — Ragland was confronted in the dark by a man with a gun, as was Taylor.

"To be sure, Mr. Taylor's death may have been avoided," Reeves wrote. "While (Ragland's) search of the property may have been undertaken negligently, possibly leading to the need to employ deadly force, the 6th Circuit (U.S. Court of Appeals) has rejected the notion that an officer should be held liable for an otherwise constitutional exercise of force because the officer's negligence may have led to the need to employ that force in the first place."