A Peru, Neb., man suspected of several hit and run accidents Saturday morning was killed in a single vehicle rollover crash south of Beatrice Saturday afternoon, Beatrice Police released Monday.

Jerry L. Wissler, 44, was pronounced dead at the scene approximately five miles southeast of Beatrice.

According to Lincoln Police Public Information Officer Katie Flood, a motorist called police to report a 1990 Buick LeSabre was driving erratically eastbound on Interstate 80 near Northwest 12th St., even entering the ditch near exit 399.

The witness followed the vehicle to a Luxury Inn parking lot where Wissler collided with a 1997 Chevy TrailBlazer.

Officers quickly arrived on scene and told Wissler to exit the vehicle, but instead Wissler allegedly put the vehicle in reverse, forcing the officer to leap out of the way, Flood said.

Wissler continued east on Cornhusker Highway with Lincoln Police in pursuit at speeds of 55-60 miles per hour. He allegedly ran red lights in two locations and collided with a 1994 Chrysler LeBaron near Cornhusker Highway and North First Street but did not stop.

For safety reasons, the pursuit was later called off as Wissler continued on Interstate 180 into downtown Lincoln.

Beatrice Police Chief Bruce Lang, police learned Wissler’s vehicle was involved in two hit and run accidents in Lincoln earlier on Saturday and was driving south on Highway 77 towards Beatrice.

During that time, authorities received several calls from other motorists warning them of Wissler's erratic driving.

Lang said several callers described the vehicle as “all over the road” and “ditch to ditch” on the highway.

“At one point, the witness who was following him said he was tilted back in the seat with his head looking straight up,” Lang said.

The caller also told police Wissler’s vehicle narrowly missed a collision with several other vehicles at Sixth and Industrial Row in north Beatrice, the site of another fatal crash last week.

Beatrice Police spotted Wissler’s vehicle at the intersection of Sixth and Dorsey streets at about 12:50 p.m. Saturday afternoon, Lang said, and began following him south through town, including through a red light at Sixth and Ella streets.

“Our officer got in behind the vehicle, which was only traveling 35-40 miles per hour or relatively close to the speed limit,” Lang said. “If anything, our guy was just trying to warn people in front of the guy to watch out.”

Police followed Wissler south out of Beatrice where another officer had attempted to deploy a spike strip, but Wissler turned east onto East Oak Road before he could drive over the device.

“When he turned onto Oak, he slowed down to about 10 miles per hour before he accelerated away in a cloud of dust,” Lang said. “When they got out of their cars, they found him dead at the scene.”

Wissler’s vehicle had struck a guard rail on a bridge near the intersection of East Oak and South First road, entered the south ditch and rolled several times, coming to a rest on its top.

A press release by the Gage County Sheriff’s Office said Wissler was partially ejected from the vehicle. He was not believed to be wearing a seat belt.

According to court records, Wissler has a lengthy criminal history in Nebraska, including several leaving the scene of an accident, drunk driving, assaults and numerous traffic violations.

In July, Wissler was sentenced to 48 hours in the Gage County Detention Center for leaving the scene of an accident and driving under suspension.

The Nebraska State Patrol and the Gage County Sheriff’s Office are continuing the investigation.

Lang said for the second time in one week, Beatrice was fortunate no one else was injured in a single vehicle crash.

On Tuesday, a 1970s era Chevrolet Corvette driven by 53-year-old Bill Snyder barreled into another vehicle and a light pole in the Indian Creek Mall parking lot before flipping onto its top around 3:45 p.m.

Witnesses estimate Snyder’s vehicle was driving in excess of 70 miles per hour down an access road parallel to Highway 77 in north Beatrice before the crash. The cause of that crash is still unknown, but medical problems are suspected to have played a role.

As Wissler continued through Beatrice, Lang said he could have easily struck another vehicle or pedestrian.

“(Officer) Rob Mireau and Sgt. Brian Carver made the best of a bad situation. It was a hard day for them and a hard day for citizens of Beatrice with this guy who apparently had no regard for anybody else,” Lang said. “We’re lucky he didn’t catch a family on the way to a soccer game.”