



A total of 10 Mesa police officers were involved in deadly shootings over the weekend.



Phoenix police say the 10 Mesa officers were involved in either of two shooting incidents, both of which occurred in Phoenix.





Phoenix Police Sergeant Steve Martos both shootings occurred on Friday night.



In the first one, a U.S. Marshals task force went to arrest 27-year-old Joseph Mavis on charges of domestic violence and aggravated assault in Phoenix. This task force included an ATF agent, a Tempe detective, two Mesa detectives, a Mesa sergeant, and a Mesa lieutenant.



Between 7 and 7:30 p.m., the task force was watching Mavis' possible residence at Fourth Street and Euclid Avenue, near South Mountain.



The officers saw Mavis go in and out of the home, and when they went to approach him, Mavis reached for a gun, Martos says.



One of the Mesa officers fired a less-lethal "Sage" round at Mavis, hitting him, but Mavis still got hold of the gun, and pointed it at the officers, Martos says.



The five other officers shot at Mavis, hitting him. He was declared dead at the scene.



The other incident started around 8 p.m., as a Mesa officer on patrol found a car that had been stolen out of Chandler earlier in the day.



The driver wouldn't pull over on a traffic stop but eventually slowed down to let two passengers out of his car before continuing to drive away.



Mesa PD's helicopter and officers in unmarked cars followed the driver from a distance, as he made his way through Mesa, Scottsdale, and Phoenix, police say.



The driver eventually parked at 32nd Street and Greenway Road in Phoenix and walked up to a fast-food restaurant with a gun in his hand.



The officers tried to confront the man, but he ran. As he ran across Greenway Road, he turned around and fired back at the officers, striking some of the unmarked vehicles, Martos says.



Six Mesa cops -- each with between six and 20 years on the department -- shot the man, Martos says. The man, whose name hasn't been released, died at the scene, with the gun still in his hand.



Clarification: This headline was changed from its original to more accurately portray the circumstances of the shootings.



Send feedback and tips to the author.

Follow Matthew Hendley on Twitter at @MatthewHendley.



