SIMI VALLEY (CBSLA.com) — Authorities Sunday released the identity of a man suspected of killing a woman believed to be his mother and setting her home ablaze before allegedly shooting indiscriminately in a quiet Ventura County neighborhood.

Police say 29-year-old Ryan Carnan was fatally shot by officers after leading authorities on a short pursuit while driving a tractor.

The incident unfolded just before 5 p.m. Saturday when investigators say they received a 911 call from a man who said that his brother had called him and told him he shot their mother to death at her Simi Valley home.

When officers arrived at the house on Mellow Lane, they found it engulfed in flames. After firefighters extinguished the blaze, they discovered a deceased woman.

A neighbor told CBS2's Art Barron that the victim was Sally Carnan, Ryan's mother. Her cause of death has not yet been determined.

A short time later, officers heard shots in the distance.

"Guy come by with a tractor. Got my dog there and he comes by and I said, 'Are you shooting up there?' And then he looks at me with the gun. He has the gun. And I said, 'Oh, you are shooting up there' and he just stared at me," Norm Trevena, a witness, said.

Police say Carnan then shot at officers, who returned fire. Officers say they recovered a handgun from Carnan, who died at the scene.

"Police have to make quick decisions. That decision in this case resulted in an individual being shot by our officers that what I would suggest has been the direct result of saving people's lives in this neighborhood," said Cmdr. Stephanie Shannon of the Simi Valley Police Department.

Murder Suspect Killed By Police In Simi Valley Identified Your browser does not support the audio element.

No officers or other residents were injured, according to KNX 1070's Ed Mertz.

The officers involved in the shooting were placed on administrative leave as is standard procedure, according to police.

Meanwhile, Simi Valley police said they've had prior contact with Carnan related to three mental health-related calls but he had no criminal record with their agency. The most recent contact was in July 2008.

The investigation is ongoing.

RELATED STORY: SWAT Team Called To Simi Valley Home Of Man Who Allegedly Killed His Mother