A man allegedly armed with several knives was fatally shot by a deputy inside a San Marcos home Saturday night, officials confirmed.



The deputy-involved shooting happened at a residence in the 500 block of Charlotte Street just before 7 p.m. after a woman went to a nearby fire station and called 911 to report that her male relative was suffering from some type of emotional distress.



The woman told officials the man had been allegedly taking drugs all day and drinking excessively at his home, and was armed with a knife. He was allegedly behaving oddly and making threats of violence, according to the woman.



Following the call to authorities, three deputies from the San Marco Sheriff’s Station responded to 44-year-old David Brown's home.



Officials say the deputies made contact with Brown inside the home, and noticed Brown had several knives in the pockets of his pants.



According to officials, Brown was semi-compliant with deputies and got down on his knees, as instructed.



However, officials say that when a deputy approached Brown to place handcuffs on him, Brown allegedly pulled one of the knives from his pocket, got up and lunged at the deputy.



Fearing for the deputy’s life, another deputy – Adrian Moses – fired four rounds from his duty weapon, striking Brown.



Officials say Brown was three to five feet from Moses at the time of the shooting, and was declared dead at the scene. There were no injuries to deputies, officials confirmed.



Homicide investigators say at least three knives were found on or near Brown. One other person was home at the time of the fatal shooting, but that person was not injured.



San Marcos resident Maribel Vargas told NBC 7 she heard the sound of the gunfire in her neighborhood.



“I thought it was some tires popping, so I thought, ‘Oh, it’s nothing.’ Next thing we know, we see a whole bunch of cops pulling up and [realized], ‘Oh my God, something else did happen,’” recalled Vargas.



Homicide detectives will handle the ongoing investigation and will interview the deputy who fired the rounds, as well as all witnesses.



Officials say Deputy Moses is a six-year veteran of the Sheriff’s Department and has been assigned to the San Marcos Station for two years.