MOLUNKUS, Maine — A police pursuit that began when a deputy sheriff saw a sedan moving 75 mph in a 25 mph zone ended with a crash that killed a Winn man on Aroostook Road late Monday, officials said Tuesday.

Adam Pelkey, 28, was killed from injuries suffered when he was thrown from the car he was driving, Maine Department of Public Safety spokesman Stephen McCausland said.

The cause of the crash is unclear.

“Based on what the deputy had told us earlier, it is obvious that speed is going to be a factor here,” McCausland said Tuesday.

The pursuit began when Penobscot County Sheriff’s Deputy Michael Knights saw the car on Main Street in Mattawamkeag and engaged his lights and sirens, Morton said.

After the pursuit left Main Street in Mattawamkeag and Route 2, Knights “decided to back off and lost sight of the vehicle involved [on Aroostook Road],” Chief Deputy Troy Morton said in a statement released about 1 p.m.

The car apparently left what had become a dirt portion of Aroostook Road, snapped a utility pole and crashed several feet into thick trees. It appeared to have landed on its roof. The crash ejected the driver at least partially out of the car, state police and firefighters at the scene said.

Knights found the sedan after doubling back toward Route 2. The man’s body remained with the car until workers from Clay Funeral Home of Lincoln removed it. Firefighters said they received a call about 8:30 p.m.

A New Jersey man vacationing at a cabin on Aroostook Road said he saw the sedan speeding down the road followed about 500 yards later by police. The lights of all the homes in the cabin resort flickered and went off briefly seconds later, he said -– probably after the car hit the pole. The campground’s generator kicked on almost immediately, he said.

“[The police officer] was not pushing it,” said the New Jersey man, who asked to not be identified.

State police are investigating the crash, and Sheriff’s Department investigators are reviewing the pursuit to see whether it complied with department policies, Morton said.

A state police accident reconstruction team worked at the scene for several hours.