CATONSVILLE, Md. (WJZ) -- In the line of duty. A Baltimore County police officer shot and killed will be laid to rest on Saturday. The man who shot him is now dead, and more information is emerging about this suspect.

Rochelle Ritchie has more on the shooting, and how the officer was hit and killed even though he was wearing a vest.

The 36-year-old police officer had been with the tactical division for 10 years. And still, it only took one day and one bullet to end his life.

A wreath remains at the sight of the Fallen Hero Memorial in Baltimore County just 24 hours after police officer Jason Schneider was shot and killed at a home on Roberts Avenue in Catonsville.

"This one's particularly hard. He was a great guy," said Chief Jim Johnson, Baltimore County Police.

Schneider was part of the tactical division issuing a search warrant at the house for a 16-year-old thought responsible for a shooting on Winters Lane on Aug. 19.

It was 5:30 a.m. Wednesday when Schneider and his team entered the home. Inside, 25-year-old Tevon Smith, armed with a gun, started shooting.

"One of our tactical officers, Jason, turned a corner at which time he was struck several times," said Johnson.

Schneider did have on a bulletproof vest when he went inside the house. He was shot multiple times by Smith. Several of the bullets did not make it through, but one did, traveling underneath his vest, striking him in the back and killing him.

Rob Weinhold,a public safety expert, says the type of bullet that hit Schneider and its path are key in determining the severity of his injuries.

"What would appear to be a non-life threatening injury turned out to be fatal, simply by the way the bullet may have traveled within the body or the organs or arteries that it may have hit," he said.

Tevon Smith

Why Smith began shooting remains to be answered. He was not the man police were looking for. After a quick search of the Maryland court records, Smith was found to have no serious offenses.

He died at Shock Trauma of his injuries.

The 16-year-old suspect Baltimore County police were originally searching for surrendered Thursday night at police headquarters. He was later identified as Rasheed Stanford.

A teen also was arrested in connection with Wednesday's shooting. Police say Taquan Barney, 17, is charged as an adult with firearm violations. He was caught inside the home where Schneider was shot early Wednesday morning. Officers found a loaded .22 caliber handgun in his front pants pocket. He's currently being held without bail at the Baltimore County Detention Center.



Four other people in the home at the time of the shooting were interviewed and arrested.

Funeral arrangements have been made for Schneider, who also served in the Marines.

Schneider leaves behind his wife and two children. His father was a retired police officer from Baltimore City.

The victim's family released a statement, saying:

"Jason was an amazing father, husband, son and brother. Jason was an honorable and affectionate man who will be remembered and never forgotten. Jason was a dedicated police officer and Marine who loved and cared for everyone."

A viewing for Officer Schneider will be held Friday from 2 to 9 p.m. at the Eckhardt Funeral Chapel, P.A. 3296 Charmil Dr. Manchester, Md. 21102.

A Mass will be celebrated on Saturday at 10 a.m. at St. Bartholomew Roman Catholic Church, 2930 Hanover Pike in Manchester.