8.30TROOPERS_FATAL_SHOOTING.JPG

Police officers gather Aug. 30 at the scene of a shooting involving two state troopers at an area on Harrington Loop Road between Bend and Sisters just off U.S. 20.

(Andy Tullis/The Bulletin)

Two Oregon State Police troopers were justified in using

several times before fatally shooting himself in the head, Deschutes County District Attorney Patrick Flaherty said Tuesday.

Senior Trooper William Duran, a 15-year veteran, and Major Travis Hampton, a 20-year veteran, reasonably believed that suspect William E. Hall, III, 34, posed an imminent threat of serious physical injury or death,

. An autopsy found that Hall died at the scene from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. Hall had sustained four other wounds from police, Flaherty wrote, one of which would have been fatal if Hall had not killed himself.

The Aug. 30 incident began as a traffic stop on eastbound U.S. 20 near Sisters. A citizen had complained that a driver was driving erratically, passing cars in no-passing zones and around blind corners. Hampton stopped a vehicle matching the description around 11 a.m., the report states.

The driver, Hall, acted strange and would not roll down his tinted windows more than about six inches, Flaherty wrote. Hall also continued talking on his cell phone during the traffic stop and could not produce the registration for the car, which had Texas plates.

Duran stopped to assist. Hall told him that he was traveling from Texas to Tennessee, but could not explain being in Oregon, the report states. The officers also noted tattoos indicating his association with white-supremacist groups which, the report said, are hostile to law-enforcement.

The two officers, who were told by dispatchers that Hall had a felony drug conviction, believed he was under the influence of a stimulant and conducted field-sobriety tests. They also called in a drug-sniffing dog but the discussion of a search triggered Hall to swear loudly and get back in his car, Flaherty wrote.

Hampton went to stop Hall from driving off, but saw through the tinted windows that Hall had picked up a gun -- later identified as a loaded 1911 model .45 caliber firearm. The report states that Hall pointed the gun at Hampton but was unable to fire, because Hall had apparently not disengaged the safety. He drove off with the officers following him, but continued to point his gun at them numerous times, Flaherty wrote.

About three miles from Sisters, the report states, Hall abruptly turned down a road to avoid spike strips that had been deployed. Duran purposely turned into Hall's vehicle, causing it to spin and stop.

As officers approached, they saw Hall point the gun and try to position himself to fire at them, the report states. They fired several times until they lost sight of Hall. Through a hole in a backseat window, they could see he was dead, Flaherty wrote.

Bend Police investigated the incident with assistance from the Deschutes County Sheriff's Office and Redmond Police. Investigators learned in interviews with Hall's family and lawyer that Hall, who previously served six years in prison on an aggravated assault with a deadly weapon conviction was facing a new charge of the same offense. He had "vowed to commit suicide rather than return to prison," the report states.

-- Helen Jung