A federal lawsuit filed Thursday blames the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety for employing a state trooper who, while off-duty, fatally shot a man outside a Tulsa motel last year, saying the agency either knew or should have known of the trooper’s “proclivity to shoot citizens.”

Sheldon Robinson, the former trooper named in the lawsuit, was fired in August in connection with the Sept. 1, 2013, fatal shooting of Michael Troy Swatosh. At the time of the shooting, Robinson claimed that he drove past the motel early Sept. 1, saw Swatosh and another man point handguns at him, then got out of his car and fired at Swatosh, striking him six times.

The lawsuit, filed by Mykelynn Vasquez, the administrator of Swatosh’s estate, claims that Robinson used excessive force and that the Department of Public Safety employs a “code of silence,” allowing troopers to deprive citizens of their right to due process. It also accuses the DPS of negligence, saying that by continuing to employ Robinson despite knowledge of his past untruthfulness and prior on-duty incidents, the department is in part liable for Swatosh’s death.

An affidavit for a search warrant filed about a month after the shooting by the investigator the OHP assigned to the case states that Robinson was seen at the motel well before the shooting, both at the motel’s office as well as on the second floor. Still, the Tulsa County District Attorney’s Office declined to charge Robinson, saying there was not enough evidence to find him criminally liable.

Nearly a year after the shooting, the Tulsa World discovered that Robinson remained on paid leave with the OHP, despite the agency’s having received a letter of clearance from Tulsa County Assistant District Attorney Doug Drummond.

Less than a month later, the OHP announced that Robinson had been fired for policy violations stemming from the shooting. Weeks later, the Tulsa World received a copy of Robinson’s termination letter, in which OHP officials said he had been untruthful and withheld information from investigators throughout the investigation and had previously been untruthful on some reports he filed.

Further, the letter claimed that Robinson — who told investigators he was in the area to run errands — was actually at the motel in an attempt to meet a woman he saw while passing by a motel the letter said had “a reputation for illegal and immoral activities.”

The lawsuit claims that Robinson was at the motel to meet a woman he believed was a prostitute and had previously done so at the same motel.

When he could not find the woman — the lawsuit claims that’s what Robinson was doing when he was on the motel’s second floor — Robinson then reverted to law enforcement, the lawsuit claims, returning to his vehicle, driving across the street and “planning an ill-fated tactical operation.”

Robinson then drove back to the motel, got out of his car while wearing a badge and holding his handgun, and announced that he was a law enforcement officer.

Fourteen seconds later, the motel’s security cameras captured “numerous flashes of light,” believed to be the gunshots “from the handgun brandished by Robinson” that killed Swatosh.

Swatosh had no criminal record, according to state court databases, and the lawsuit states that he was not disobeying a lawful command or posing a threat when he was shot. He did, however, test positive for amphetamine and methamphetamine, according to his autopsy report.

The lawsuit claims that the OHP knew or should have known that Robinson was “an employee of questionable integrity” but continued to employ him and noting that in his termination letter, Robinson’s conduct prior to the shooting was labeled “atrocious.”

The lawsuit seeks compensatory damages against DPS equal to $175,000, as well as further punitive damages, to be determined by a jury.