Allegheny County police say an attempted burglary suspect died after fighting with officers who were trying to arrest him Tuesday night.County investigators say several people around Brinton and South avenues in North Braddock called 911 before 10 p.m. about a man who tried to break into a home. Dave Dininno, who lives in the house, said he had seen the suspect circling around his car earlier in the night."Didn't think anything about it, so I came back in," Dininno said. "Ten minutes later he has my screen door open, trying to push me out of the way with a cane or wooden stick."Dininno said he chased after the man and called 911. Police arrived and tried to stop the man, but he allegedly fought with them.Lt. Andy Schurman said the man "refused to comply with the officers' directions when they tried to approach him. He again refused, and there was a struggle in which several less-than-lethal levels of force were used to subdue the man. He was eventually handcuffed and, after a brief period of time, he went unconscious. The medics arrived, took him to a local area hospital where he was pronounced dead."The Medical Examiner's office identified the man as Gary Beto, 52, of Pittsburgh.Authorities are waiting on autopsy results to determine how Beto died, but they believe he was under the influence of some kind of drug or alcohol.

Allegheny County police say an attempted burglary suspect died after fighting with officers who were trying to arrest him Tuesday night.

County investigators say several people around Brinton and South avenues in North Braddock called 911 before 10 p.m. about a man who tried to break into a home. Dave Dininno, who lives in the house, said he had seen the suspect circling around his car earlier in the night.

Advertisement

"Didn't think anything about it, so I came back in," Dininno said. "Ten minutes later he has my screen door open, trying to push me out of the way with a cane or wooden stick."

Dininno said he chased after the man and called 911. Police arrived and tried to stop the man, but he allegedly fought with them.



Lt. Andy Schurman said the man "refused to comply with the officers' directions when they tried to approach him. He again refused, and there was a struggle in which several less-than-lethal levels of force were used to subdue the man. He was eventually handcuffed and, after a brief period of time, he went unconscious. The medics arrived, took him to a local area hospital where he was pronounced dead."



The Medical Examiner's office identified the man as Gary Beto, 52, of Pittsburgh.



Authorities are waiting on autopsy results to determine how Beto died, but they believe he was under the influence of some kind of drug or alcohol.