Record Herald Staff

ST. THOMAS — Franklin County District Attorney Matthew Fogal has determined the response taken by all Pennsylvania State Police troopers during the Sept. 2, standoff that led to the death of a St. Thomas man was “absolutely justified under the circumstances.”

Philip Rank, 47, was shot and killed by police when he approached officers while carrying multiple firearms in an attempt to flee his home in the 500 block of St. Thomas-Williamson Road Monday afternoon. The incident began around 10:40 a.m. Sept. 2, when officers attempted to arrest Rank for aggravated assault stemming from a domestic incident that had occurred over the weekend. Rank subsequently barricaded himself within the home for several hours, prior to the shooting.

Rank had threatened police several times during negotiations, Fogal said in the release.

“Due to this determination, no further criminal investigation is requested or warranted in this case,” according to a news release issued by Fogal Friday night.

Domestic incident

The domestic incident that occurred between Friday and Saturday between Rank and his girlfriend was quite “bloody and violent,” according to the news release. Rank had hit her with a 2-by-4 and the butt of a shotgun.

According to Fogal, Pennsylvania State Police had been to the St. Thomas residence in recent months, and Rank had been concealed and armed during those times, while threatening to kill his girlfriend if she spoke freely or let the troopers inside.

The standoff

On Monday, PSP arrived at Rank’s home to serve the arrest warrant. However, Rank barricaded himself within the house. PSP troopers communicated to Rank through a friend for a number of hours, where he was given a “surrender plan,” no less than four times.

During this period of communication, the PSP Special Emergency Response Team moved onto the scene.

Rather than comply and surrender peacefully, Rank threatened troopers on the scene repeatedly and stated he was “armed with an SKS rifle, an AR-15, a .308 and 75 rounds of ammunition” and that he was going to shoot them, according to the release.

Around 3:30 p.m., Rank ran outside from the back of his home, armed with a holstered .40-caliber Beretta and carrying the loaded SKS rifle in this hands, the release said. He encountered troopers within 100 feet of his home, to the rear of an adjacent barn, with his rifle, which he raised and pointed at one of the troopers.

A SERT member immediately approached him from his perimeter position to the front of the barn, and as he did so, Rank quickly moved toward him with the SKS in hand and swung it toward the trooper, who subsequently killed Rank.

“The threats made by Rank and the actions he took were the decisions he personally made after having been asked to surrender peacefully for multiple hours,” the release said. “Given the real threat that he voiced and later acted upon, I am very happy that no troopers were injured or worse. Certainly, no one delights in taking the life of another, but the actions of all troopers involved were utterly reasonable, appropriate and correct.”