Advertisement Man killed in Baltimore officer-involved shooting Police dispute witness reports that man was unarmed Share Copy Link Copy

Baltimore police are investigating a shooting that involved several officers and led to a man's death Wednesday evening.Police have not released many details in the incident in which a man was shot around 7 p.m. Wednesday. Police said the officers, who were identified as Peter Iacovo, Joseph Wiczulis and Kyle Gaskin, chased down a man believed to have been about to commit a crime.According to authorities, the man fought with the officers and was shot after he pulled a handgun in the 200 block of Spring Court in east Baltimore.Police identified the man as Donte Bennett, 25, who's no stranger to police as his criminal history includes 18 different cases. On Aug. 29, a warrant was issued for his arrest for violating probation on a drug conviction, court documents showed. He had a 10-year jail sentence hanging over his head."The officers were in the area, where they gathered information that a crime was about to occur at a local business," Deputy Commissioner Jerry Rodriguez said.Police sources said authorities believe Bennett intended to rob a fast-food restaurant located near the Douglass Homes neighborhood. According to investigators, when officers approached a man who fit his description, he fled.A Baltimore City police crime camera was perfectly positioned to have captured the officer-involved shooting. The footage will refute or sustain witness accounts, which are, at the moment, inconsistent and incomplete, officials said. The Police Department is disputing witness reports that Bennett was unarmed with his hands up in the air before officers shot him."I never seen a gun when he was running. She said all he had in his hand was a cellphone," said Donyea King, a witness."The police ran down there, so I ran down there too. I thought it was an altercation," he said. "When I got there, they had the boy on the ground (mimics punching, kicking). Then all the officers pulled out their guns and started shooting.""We will interview any and all witnesses, and we will get to the bottom of this; however, the preliminary information is that the suspect was armed and that the officers feared for their lives," Rodriguez said.Two people who claimed they witnessed the event from start to finish provided an account similar to what police said happened. They did not want to be identified.Those witnesses described a fast and furious foot chase. They said an officer in better shape than Bennett easily kept pace, even jumping over a couple of fences. Witnesses said that during the pursuit, Bennett repeatedly tried to retrieve a large handgun from his hip, otherwise known as the front belt buckle area on pants.The witnesses said they saw Bennett fall while climbing over a second fence, and an officer landed on top of him. They said one officer used his foot to push Bennett, who was lying face-down. They said they saw Bennett again reach for his gun and, at that point, at least three officers opened fire."He violently resisted. That resulted in the suspect producing a weapon, and it resulted in the officers' use of deadly force," Rodriguez said.Bennett later died at a hospital. None of the officers were injured in the ordeal.Sources said the gun was recovered, and a police round actually struck it.When 11 News asked whether the officers had been in fear for their lives, both witnesses who didn't want to be identified emphatically stated, 'yes.""I am proud of the work done by the officers," Rodriguez said.City police are in the process of examining every frame of footage from the crime camera. Investigators encourage more witnesses to come forward.The officers who fired their weapons are on routine administrative duty. Internal affairs has already launched an investigation.Wiczulis was involved in a previous police-involved shooting in March 2010. Officials said two officers were shot by a gunman in that incident. Gaskin was also involved in one in October 2009, when he fired on a person who was dragging him from a moving vehicle. The person was not hit.Refresh this story on WBALTV.com for updates as they come in.10047516