Toxicology reports are still pending for a 21-year-old Simi Valley man fatally shot in Ventura after allegedly punching and threatening to kill a K-9 officer earlier this month.

Devin Thomas Costa was shot by the Ventura County sheriff’s deputy about 4:45 p.m., Sat., Sept. 7 after he suddenly tried to grab her firearm at Ventura Avenue and Fraser Lane, said Sgt. Eric Buschow of the Ventura County Sheriff’s Office.

According to a sheriff’s office press release, calls came in at 4:32 p.m. from multiple residents on Ventura Avenue that Costa was shouting to himself and waving his arms wildly in the middle of the street.

Buschow said the K-9 deputy was the first person to arrive on scene. She tried to talk to Costa, but he did not respond. After calling for backup, the officer again attempted to get a response, and Costa punched her in the face, Buschow said.

The officer released her K-9 from the vehicle by remote control, and Costa was bitten on the arm as he continued to punch the officer’s face; Costa then attempted to grab the officer’s gun and repeatedly threatened to kill her, Buschow said.

“This is a situation where the suspect was clearly intent on causing her great harm,” Buschow said. “Not only did he punch her in the face, nearly knocking her unconscious, he then tried to take her firearm and said he was going to kill her. Given the circumstances, she had no other choice but to draw her weapon to end the threat.”

Costa suffered a gunshot wound to the torso and died at the Ventura County Medical Center at 5:27 p.m. that day, according to Michael Tellez at the Ventura County medical examiner’s office.

Costa had a previous arrest record with the Simi Valley Police Department, including resisting arrest, possession of a weapon and public intoxication.

As is standard procedure in an officer-involved shooting, the K-9 deputy was placed on paid administrative leave. She has more than 20 years of experience at the sheriff’s office. The officer suffered a concussion during the attack, according to Buschow.

The sheriff’s office crimes bureau and professional standards division and the Ventura County district attorney’s office are still investigating the incident. The officer’s name will not be released while the investigation continues.

Buschow said officer-involved shootings become a “three-pronged” investigation as the criminal, professional and legal aspects of the case are examined.

The district attorney’s office will usually release a public report with its determination on the legality of the shooting within six months, according to Buschow.