A former Marine and Pittsburgh police officer was acquitted of all charges in the 2013 shooting death of his longtime friend. Allegheny County jurors on Thursday found Kenneth Farnan, 53, not guilty of murder and voluntary manslaughter in the death of Shawn Evans, 56.Farnan had said he and Evans fought inside Condrin's Tavern in Pittsburgh in the early morning hours of Sept. 8, 2013. He said Evans hit him in the head as he nodded off at the bar. The two then fell to the floor while grappling.Patrick Sweeney, Farnan's lawyer, said Evans was much bigger and tried to get a gun out of Farnan's holster, but that he got the gun first and shot Evans six times, killing him. Sweeney said his client shot in Evans in self-defense.Deputy District Attorney Jan Necessary argued that the bartender couldn't verify any of Farnan's testimony. She said the men left the bartender's sight immediately before the shots rang out.Several family members from both sides were in the courtroom. Sweeney said Farnan hopes both sides that "are hurting" can now move on.Both families declined to comment afterward.

A former Marine and Pittsburgh police officer was acquitted of all charges in the 2013 shooting death of his longtime friend.



Allegheny County jurors on Thursday found Kenneth Farnan, 53, not guilty of murder and voluntary manslaughter in the death of Shawn Evans, 56.

Farnan had said he and Evans fought inside Condrin's Tavern in Pittsburgh in the early morning hours of Sept. 8, 2013. He said Evans hit him in the head as he nodded off at the bar. The two then fell to the floor while grappling.

Advertisement Related Content Pittsburgh police officer charged in Bloomfield bar shooting

Patrick Sweeney, Farnan's lawyer, said Evans was much bigger and tried to get a gun out of Farnan's holster, but that he got the gun first and shot Evans six times, killing him. Sweeney said his client shot in Evans in self-defense.

Deputy District Attorney Jan Necessary argued that the bartender couldn't verify any of Farnan's testimony. She said the men left the bartender's sight immediately before the shots rang out.

Several family members from both sides were in the courtroom. Sweeney said Farnan hopes both sides that "are hurting" can now move on.

Both families declined to comment afterward.