Advertisement State police: Bank robbery suspect fatally shot himself during chase Troopers suffer non-life-threatening injuries in chase Share Copy Link Copy

State police are investigating a Franklin County bank robbery that led to a chase into Cumberland County, where the suspect fatally shot himself.Click here to watch Matt Barcaro's live update. They have identified the suspect as Dakin Burgess, 37, of Pittsburgh.Burgess robbed the M&T; Bank on Lincoln Way East in Guilford Township, Franklin County, about 5 p.m. Monday, state police said.Troopers said they chased a black minivan and then lost sight of it. They found the minivan again with the help of helicopters, chasing it to Upper Mifflin Township, Cumberland County.Dakin shot at troopers, hitting one of them in the shoulder, state police said. The injured trooper continued to pursue Dakin and another trooper blocked the road with his vehicle, they said.The chase ended when Burgess fatally shot himself and crashed his vehicle into a tree on Roxbury Road, troopers said. Burgess suffered a gunshot wound to his leg during the exchange of gunfire with troopers, according to the coroner."You could use the word desperate, you could use the word motivated, fixated, but he had a clear desire to get away and to do anything he could to do that ... whether that was going to be take the life of anybody, including armed troopers, police officers, sheriffs. He was going to do it," said state police Capt. Steve Junkin.Earlier in the night, another trooper was shot in the foot during the chase and Dakin drove into a cornfield, stopping to put the corn over his car to elude helicopters, state police said.Both troopers are expected to survive.State police said they found evidence in Burgess' car that links him to a Franklin County preschool bomb threat, where a hoax device was found.Robbery, chase timeline4:50 p.m. Thursday -- Burgess enters the M&T; Bank in Guilford Township, Franklin County, with a stocking over his head. He drew a mustache and glasses on the stocking, showed a handgun, robbed the bank and took off.Troopers saw Burgess' vehicle on Route 997 and followed it and the pursuit shifted to Interstate 81 north. A traffic stop was attempted near milemarker 22. Burgess shot a trooper's foot, several bullets hit the patrol car and Burgess took off.Clouse Road/Ott Road in North Newton Township -- a helicopter was tracking Burgess, who was in a cornfield. He stopped his vehicle in the cornfield, put corn on top of the roof to hide himself and then took off through the cornfield, eluding state police again.Roxbury Road/Meadows Road -- Burgess engages in a shootout with two state troopers, hitting one in the shoulder. That trooper kept pursuing Burgess for more than two miles until he couldn't any longer due to his injury.7:50 p.m. - Roxbury Road/Middle Road in Upper Mifflin Township -- a trooper rammed his vehicle into Burgess', Burgess shot himself and the car careened out of control hitting a tree.