It's unclear if man had a medical problem

A man died after being taken into custody by Sacramento police officers Thursday afternoon.He was identified Friday as 42-year-old Ruben Juarez.Officers were leaving the South Sacramento substation when several people flagged them down in a parking lot across the street, in the 5300 block of Franklin Boulevard, according to the Sacramento Police Department.When officers walked over, about 3:30 p.m., they found Juarez rolling on the ground, police said.He rolled under a truck when officers approached."The reason he was being detained was just that strange behavior," said Doug Morse, of Sacramento police. "When we got him out from under the car, at that time, they were putting handcuffs on him. When they realized he was unresponsive, they immediately took those handcuffs off. That's when immediate medical attention by the officers was given."Family members were met by chaplains at the scene.Emergency officials took Juarez to a nearby hospital, where he died.Officers say it's still unclear if the man had a medical problem, or if drugs or alcohol were involved.

A man died after being taken into custody by Sacramento police officers Thursday afternoon.



He was identified Friday as 42-year-old Ruben Juarez.

Advertisement

Officers were leaving the South Sacramento substation when several people flagged them down in a parking lot across the street, in the 5300 block of Franklin Boulevard, according to the Sacramento Police Department.

When officers walked over, about 3:30 p.m., they found Juarez rolling on the ground, police said.



He rolled under a truck when officers approached.



"The reason he was being detained was just that strange behavior," said Doug Morse, of Sacramento police. "When we got him out from under the car, at that time, they were putting handcuffs on him. When they realized he was unresponsive, they immediately took those handcuffs off. That's when immediate medical attention by the officers was given."



Family members were met by chaplains at the scene.



Emergency officials took Juarez to a nearby hospital, where he died.



Officers say it's still unclear if the man had a medical problem, or if drugs or alcohol were involved.