The NYPD said radio calls capturing a man's final minutes as he died of a severe asthma attack in a Bronx subway station had been destroyed. Then a judge ordered an NYPD official to declare the department was telling the truth.

Suddenly, the radio calls materialized.

Advertisement

The newly discovered evidence in an ongoing wrongful death lawsuit infuriated a federal judge, who lamented the "distressing situation" that left him wondering "whether there aren't a ton more cases" in which the NYPD and city Law Department are not being forthcoming.

"It is only when someone from the legal affairs bureau or some person within the NYPD is going to have to put their name on a declaration and under penalty of perjury — and if they are lying, they can go to jail and lose their job — that we get accurate information," Manhattan Federal Judge Kevin Castel said during a Jan. 31 court hearing to address the new evidence.

Advertisement

The lawsuit for unspecified damages was filed in 2015.

Karen Brown holds photo of her son Barrington (BJ) Williams. (Todd Maisel / New York Daily News)

Karen Brown sued the city over the death of her son, Barrington (BJ) Williams, who was suspected of selling illegal MetroCard swipes on Sept. 17, 2013, at the Yankee Stadium subway station.

Cops wrestled with the 25-year-old on the floor, then stood by as he struggled to breathe and died from a severe asthma attack. They did not perform CPR, although as recently as five months before the fatal encounter they had received CPR training.

Manhattan Federal Judge Kevin Castel (Rick Kopstein / New York Law Journal)

His death has been compared to that of Eric Garner, the Staten Island man who was also asthmatic and died in a police chokehold in July 2014.

The arrest of Williams was captured on surveillance video in the station, beginning with him being tackled by a cop, restrained and slipping into cardiac arrest. The video showed him being handcuffed at 1:57 p.m. and chest compressions being administered by a Fire Department medic at 2:14 p.m. He appeared to be unconscious.

Williams died as cops stood over him.

An automated external defibrillator (AED) was stored in the subway station, only a 25-second walk away, according to court documents. The device can be used by nonmedical personnel, such as police trained in CPR, in cases of sudden cardiac arrest.

The radio calls show that officers requested a "rush" on an ambulance for Williams when they first contacted dispatch.

Advertisement

"The urgency heard in the officers' radio calls shows they knew from the very beginning that BJ needed immediate lifesaving aid," Brown's attorneys Joshua Moskovitz and Jason Leventhal said in a statement to the Daily News.

"We believe every New Yorker will be outraged to learn that police officers don't have to perform CPR or use an AED. This policy – that it's optional for police officers to use their training to save lives – should shock the conscience of our community," they said.

The city argues in court papers that the cops did not have a constitutional obligation to provide CPR to Williams.

"There was no clearly established right to have a police officer perform CPR, or use an AED, on an individual who has an asthma attack during the course of an apprehension," city attorney Angharad Wilson wrote.

Brown cried as she recalled lying on the floor of her Bronx apartment for 10 minutes, trying to imagine what her son endured.

"He was in their custody and he doesn't have a right for them to save his life? And they're trained to save lives. Just as much as they broke my heart, it angers me," Brown told The News.

Advertisement

"I feel like they're prolonging the case. It's five years now. I feel like I don't have any closure. I have no one being held accountable. I just want justice for my son," she said. "I don't have any trust in the city. I'm angry. I'm disappointed."

Video shows cops arrest Barrington Williams.

This is not the first time the lawsuit has faced problems over evidence. Federal Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein wrote last August that he viewed city attorneys' "delay and inaction as indicative of negligence, not willfulness."

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

During the Jan. 31 hearing presided over by Judge Castel, city attorney Qiana Smith-Williams said that in September 2015 her office turned over material from an NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau investigation of Williams' death to Brown's lawyers. The city later determined that the radio calls had been destroyed through an automatic deletion protocol after 180 days.

Castel ordered that an NYPD official put his or her name on a document declaring that the calls had in fact been destroyed. That's when NYPD Civil Litigation Executive Director Elizabeth Daitz and Lt. Robert Corbett discovered documents from the NYPD's Transit Bureau, which had conducted its own inquiry of Williams' death. The radio calls were preserved through that probe.

"Left to their own devices, the hardworking lawyers of the corporation counsel and the hardworking people in the legal affairs bureau can't come up with accurate information," Castel said.

Leventhal and Moskovitz said the NYPD's withholding of evidence had added years to the case.

Advertisement

"We cannot trust the NYPD when it has consistently refused to voluntarily hand over evidence that hurts them," the attorneys for Brown said.

An NYPD spokesman said the department takes its obligation in civil lawsuits seriously.

"The Legal Bureau has a staff of approximately 40 uniform and civilian members who exercise due diligence in providing the Law Department with evidence in over 7,000 pending cases. The NYPD does not withhold evidence in civil lawsuits from its counsel or other parties," the spokesman said.