John Tuohy

The Indianapolis Star

Indianapolis police Officer Maurice Shipley killed suspect who killed fellow officer

Shipley now on desk duty while internal review conducted

Department offers assistance to Shipley%2C slain officer%27s family

INDIANAPOLIS -- It was pandemonium at warp speed.

Indianapolis police Officer Maurice Shipley squealed his squad car to a stop outside an apartment at 2 a.m. He heard pounding on a door followed by a volley of gunfire.

Shipley sprinted into the building. At the second-floor landing, a door was open.

Inside stood a man with a .380-caliber handgun. Behind him, on the floor, was Shipley's good friend, Officer Rod Bradway, with a mortal gunshot wound.

It was the moment Shipley had spent thousands of hours training for, seared in his brain, programmed into his muscle memory. It was the most important thing he had learned in the police academy: Stay alive.

Don't freeze. Don't choke. Don't die.

Shipley squeezed the trigger of his department-issued .40-caliber Glock handgun. Suspect Steven Byrdo fired back. A fusillade of bullets careened off the walls and furniture.

Byrdo, 25, died on the carpet, just feet away from the officer he had ambushed a minute before, after Bradway rushed inside to save a woman who was screaming.

Shipley was unharmed. At least physically.

Experienced police officers and experts say emotional scars from even the most justified shootings can haunt officers for years. Anger, guilt and second-guessing can cause sleepless nights, substance abuse and mood swings.

But other officers suffer no debilitating aftereffects. Each individual reacts differently.

"It's a gut-wrenching experience," said Assistant Police Chief Ron Hicks, who supervised Shipley for a time. "The emotions range the entire spectrum. Imagine how you would feel if you saw a close friend or family member die?"

Shipley's deadly use of force could carry an additional layer of complexity because it occurred as he was coming to the rescue of another officer, as well as a 24-year-old woman and her 10-month-old daughter, who were not injured.

"Shootings take a huge toll," said retired police officer Lance LoRusso, author of the book, "When Cops Kill." "If another officer was injured, you will be reminded of it every day. It can be very painful."

Shipley is now on desk duty while the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department conducts a series of internal reviews of the Sept. 20 shooting. Before he returns to patrol, he will have to be cleared by a psychologist.

Shipley declined to be interviewed by The Indianapolis Star and requested that IMPD withhold release of his photo.

Brian Nanavaty, who heads IMPD's Office of Professional Development and Officer Wellness, said it's a police officer's natural instinct to question himself about what he could have done better.

"It is in our training, our DNA, to replay things over and over again," he said. "One thousand things run through your head relating to your own actions. Could I have done something different?"

Such "survivor's guilt" can be so pervasive that it's prevalent even among officers who were not involved.

Cmdr. Brian Mahone of the Northwest District, where Shipley has worked since joining IMPD five years ago, said Shipley worked a busy beat on a busy shift.

Domestic disturbance calls like the one Bradway and Shipley responded to are, paradoxically, both some of the most routine and the most dangerous of all calls.

"He rushed into a gunfight," Mahone said of Shipley. "A lot of people say what they would have done in a given situation. He went and did it."

Nanavaty said he has not spoken with Shipley. But he said officers from the Police Officer Support Team have reached out to Shipley and Bradway's family to offer assistance.

When Shipley does come in for his required counseling session, he will be evaluated with an interview and a questionnaire and could be encouraged to take advantage of counseling in the future if he needs it.

"The tendency for most officers is to say they're OK," Nanavaty said. "But we've learned from the military that many signs of stress don't show up right away. It can be six months, one year later. ... The important thing is they know they can go somewhere to work it out."