A gunman identified as Antonio Feliu shot two women in Miami and then led police on a high-speed chase that ended when he rammed into an innocent driver, police said. (WSVN/AP)

The four victims in a fatal shooting and wild highway police chase in South Florida that ended when the suspect plowed into an innocent woman's car have been identified, and cops say the mayhem may have started as a case of domestic violence.

Antonio Feliu, 48, led police on a harrowing two-county chase Wednesday morning after shooting his ex-girlfriend, Vivian Gallego Martinez, 51, and her daughter Anabel Benitez, 28, at the women's South Miami apartment sometime around 9:30 a.m., authorities said.

Advertisement

Martinez died at the scene, while Benitez was pronounced dead later at a local hospital.

Feliu then fled in a Mercedes SUV and headed north on U.S. 27, weaving in and out of traffic at upwards of 100 mph, authorities said.

Advertisement

Shooting suspect Antonio Feliu's Wedneday morning rampage may have been set off by a fight with his ex, police said. (WTVJ)

On the western edge of Broward County, as television choppers followed overhead, Feliu flew through a red light at Griffin Road and slammed into another Mercedes, sending both vehicles skidding off the road.

The other driver, Maritza Medina, 48, was thrown from her car and died at the scene.

The mother-of-two had just dropped her daughter off at high school and was a half-mile from her home, NBC Miami reported.

News choppers filmed Feliu weaving through traffic on northbound U.S. 27 in a dark blue Mercedes SUV (above left). (WTVJ)

Feliu survived the impact, but committed suicide with a handgun as Broward sheriff's deputies approached his wrecked vehicle, authorities said.

The gunshot sparked an hour-long standoff at the crash site as SWAT teams trained high-powered rifles on the wrecked SUV, unsure if the suspected gunman was still alive.

One deputy dragged Medina's body into a safe area in the hopes that she was still alive, the Miami Herald reported.

Maritza Medina, 48, was thrown from her vehicle and died at the crash site. She was coming from dropping her daughter off at high school. (WTVJ)

With rifles raised, SWAT team members eventually crept toward the smashed SUV and discovered Felui dead in the driver's seat, news footage showed.

The rampage shook communities in both Broward and Miami-Dade counties, where police were still searching for a motive in the shooting but suspected that Feliu may have been feuding ex-flame Martinez, NBC Miami reported.

Advertisement

Neighbors at the women's South Miami apartment complex said they never noticed any trouble at Martinez and Benitez's home.

Feliu's Mercedes SUV rammed another Mercedes that 48-year-old mother of two Maritza Medina was driving at the intersection of Griffin Road and U.S. 27. (WTVJ)

"Sometimes the police is there. I never heard anything," one neighbor NBC Miami. "It was quiet, but I saw police officers here a few times, but other than that, no arrests, no arguments, just quiet."

Felui's police record showed a 2009 bust for drunk driving and some traffic tickets, but no history of domestic abuse, The Herald reported.

Another neighbor told The Herald she'd seen Felui driving the Mercedes SUV the day before.

Police suspect Feliu may have been fueding with ex-girlfriend Vivian Gallego Martinez (right), 51, when he shot her and her daughter Anabel Benitez (left), 28, at their South Miami apartment. (Facebook)

"He waved at me yesterday when he drove by. He's waved before,'' Clinton Woodson said.

Meanwhile, family, friends and neighbors gathered at Medina's west Broward home on Wednesday to grieve.

Advertisement

Medina and her husband, Diego, had been married for two decades and had two daughters, Damarys, a high school senior, and another who was older and did not live at home, according to local reports.

Police said Feliu shot himself inside the smashed up SUV shortly after the crash. (WTVJ)

Damarys Medina told local WSVN-TV, "My dad came to my school when I was at lunch and I was in the office, and he came rushing in. He was crying and I knew from then something was wrong."

Describing their final moments together, the teen said, "(I said) 'Goodbye Mom.' You know, you don't know when you're going to really see her for the last time."

"It's a tragedy. It's so sad," neighbor Barbara Wentzel told WSVN. "My heart was just — I couldn't fathom it."

Medina's demolished Mercedes sedan, after the wreck. (WTVJ)

With News Wire Services

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE