By Lillian Schrock

lschrock@dmreg.com

Sheriff’s deputies used stun guns this week to try to subdue a northern Iowa man who later died while handcuffed, state investigators said Friday.

The deputies in Worth County in north-central Iowa were called to a Northwood residence where a woman was screaming inside around 11:30 p.m. Sunday. When they arrived, deputies reportedly found Michael Lee Zubrod, 39, of Charles City beating a 48-year-old woman with scissors and a hammer and threatening to kill her.

Police used stun guns to try to subdue Zubrod, but they had little effect and he continued to hit the woman, the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation said in a statement that was released Friday.

Three deputies wrestled Zubrod to the ground and handcuffed him in front of his body as he reportedly kicked at officers.

The officers then managed to handcuff Zubrod behind his back and placed him in leg shackles, the news release said.

Zubrod became unresponsive as he was lying on the ground in handcuffs. Paramedics were unable to revive him.

The woman remains in serious condition at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. She is being treated for stab wounds and blunt force injuries, authorities said.

The Iowa state medical examiner’s office conducted an autopsy on Zubrod. The full report will be made available once toxicology tests have been completed; that might take up to three weeks, said Division of Criminal Investigation Special Agent Mike Krapfl.

Deputies Isaac Short, Shayne Hoch and John Smith, who were at the residence Sunday, were each given a day of leave to cooperate with the investigation. The deputies have returned to work.

Sheriff Jay Langenbau said Worth County deputies rarely use their stun guns, which are deployed “probably only once every other month or so.”

“Usually when someone sees a Taser come out, he complies,” Langenbau said.

Worth County deputies are required to complete stun gun training before carrying the weapon. A recertification process is required once a year, Langenbau said.

When the state completes its investigation of the incident, its reports will be forwarded to the Worth County attorney’s office for review.

Stun guns fire cartridges that transmit electrical current to a person who is struck. The group Amnesty International USA has reported that since 2001, more than 500 people have died after being stunned.

Manufacturers and law enforcement officials point to studies showing that stun guns reduce rates of injury both for suspects and for officers.