The fatal shooting of a Claremore man by an Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper on Saturday was preceded by a gunshot from a nearby resident attempting to break up a struggle between the two, according to OHP Capt. George Brown.

Trooper Bobby Raines shot Tel Levi Rodgers, 33, about 9 p.m. Saturday, according to the OHP.

It was the second fatal trooper-involved shooting in Tulsa this month and the first of two trooper-involved shootings last weekend.

Raines, who has been a trooper for 18 months, was placed on routine paid administrative leave following the shooting, Brown said.

Raines had attempted to pull over Rodgers' vehicle near the Overlook Apartments, 6339 S. 33rd West Ave., and Rodgers eventually stopped his vehicle at a dead end in the complex.

Orange spray paint on the parking lot signifying where the two vehicles came to a stop remained visible Monday, as was an orange dot on the ground near where the trooper's car had been parked.

Witnesses said that was where Raines' head bounced off the concrete following an initial struggle.

In statements to the Tulsa World on Saturday, Brown said Rodgers fled on foot, which initiated a foot pursuit by Raines. The chase covered about half a mile before the two men got into a struggle, in which Rodgers reached for Raines' gun and was shot twice, once in the head and once in the chest, Brown said.

The shooting occurred in a field near the Summit Park Full Gospel Church, 5835 S. 33rd West Ave.

Brown said a nearby resident who saw the second struggle walked outside and fired a shot into the ground in an attempt to break up the fight.

It was after that shot that Raines shot Rodgers twice and killed him.

Brown said the resident will not face any charges. The gun he used, a .380-caliber handgun, has been taken into evidence and will be returned to the man, Brown said.

Chris Leverich, an Overlook Apartments resident, said he was within 10 feet of the initial struggle and said he wishes he had tried to assist the trooper.

Rodgers "would still be alive if I had stepped in," he said. "I could have saved his life."

Leverich said he stayed with the three children left in Rodgers' vehicle while Raines was pursuing Rodgers over a nearby hill and into the field where he eventually was killed.

Another man, Herbert Ward, said he was doing laundry at a friend's apartment when he saw Raines and Rodgers wrestling. After Rodgers left on foot, a limping Raines chased him, Ward said.

Rodgers "had a good head start on him," Ward said. "I lost track of them when they got over the hill, and then I heard the first shot. I started counting, and the second shot was a second or a second and a half later.

"My first worry was that he was shooting at the trooper, because I know they're taught to double-tap (shoot twice), but when I heard the second one I knew he had shot (Rodgers)."

Ward said he approached the scene initially because he was concerned for the trooper's safety.

"He was out here by himself, with no backup at first," he said.

However, Ward and Leverich expressed doubt that Raines, whom Ward said was visibly limping, could have caught Rodgers on foot to get close enough for the second struggle that preceded the shooting.

Brown disputed that notion, saying Raines was in "mortal combat" with Rodgers at the time of the shooting.

In the other OHP fatal shooting this month, Trooper Sheldon Robinson shot Michael Troy Swatosh, 25, of Tulsa after he "perceived a threat" while off-duty at the Best Budget Inn, 34 S. Sheridan Road, on Sept. 1, the agency reported.

Meanwhile, the Highway Patrol has identified a trooper who shot a teenager while responding to a call about a reported road rage incident on Interstate 35 in Norman this weekend.

When officers had arrived at the reported road-rage incident, three teenagers were on top of a woman's car, kicking and hitting the doors, Trooper Betsy Randolph said.

The OHP said Monday that Trooper Joseph Kimmons, 37, shot one of the teenagers on Sunday after the boy became combative and started fighting with Kimmons.

Randolph said the teenager remained hospitalized in good condition Monday and that Kimmons was treated at the scene for minor injuries.

Kimmons is a 14-year-veteran of the OHP and is on paid leave pending an investigation into the shooting, Randolph said.

The teenager's name has not been released.

Dylan Goforth 918-581-8451

SUBHEAD: Witnesses describe a desperate fight between the trooper and a suspect he was trying to arrest.

Original Print Headline: OHP shooting details emerge