Staff Writer

Fosters Daily Democrat

DOVER — Officials have determined that a man who attacked a woman with a hammer Monday before engaging in a shootout and overnight standoff with police died during the incident of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

New Hampshire Attorney General Joseph Foster, New Hampshire State Police Colonel Robert Quinn, and Dover Police Chief Anthony Colarusso announced in a written statement that New Hampshire's Chief Medical Examiner, Thomas Andrew, has completed an autopsy on the body of Frank Thompson, 50, who resided at 1 Northway Circle, Apartment #6, in Dover.

According to reports, Thompson assaulted Misty Sullivan, 32, with a hammer and got into a shootout with police after they responded to the incident. Sullivan then locked himself in his apartment, leading to a standoff that lasted hours between Monday evening and early Tuesday morning.

The attorney general's report, which states Thompson's cause of death and chronicles the incident, reads:

Mr. Thompson died of a gunshot wound to the left chest, and that the manner of his death was suicide. Mr. Thompson had also sustained a gunshot wound to the abdomen, which did not penetrate any vital organs.

The incident that led to Mr. Thompson's suicide began on Monday. At approximately 7:30 p.m. that night, Dover police officers were dispatched to the Fairfield Gardens apartment complex on Northway Circle for a report that a white man, a resident of the building, had assaulted a 32-year-old woman, a resident of the same apartment building, with a hammer. The report also included the information that the suspect was armed with a handgun.

Dover officers responded to the address, and were able to remove the female victim from the building and have her transported to the hospital for treatment.

They then began efforts to evacuate the remaining residents on the same floor as the suspect, and to contact the suspect. By the time the Dover officers were attempting to contact the suspect, a state trooper had joined them.

The suspect responded to their efforts to get him to come out of his apartment unarmed by opening his apartment door and firing his handgun at the officers. The officers returned the suspect's fire with their own weapons, and the suspect retreated into his apartment. Several hours later, the suspect's body was found inside his apartment, and it was confirmed that he was Frank Thompson, who resided alone in apartment #6.

The investigation into Mr. Thompson's assault on the female victim and the circumstances of his exchange of gunfire with police and ultimate suicide is ongoing, and is being conducted jointly by the New Hampshire State Police Major Crime Unit, the Dover Police Department, and the Attorney General's Office. The Attorney General will release a report regarding this incident when the investigation is completed.