SHARE Steven Motley

The family of a man who died three days after a struggle with Redding Police officers left him unconscious is suing the city alleging police brutality.

The suit, filed in federal court, alleges Redding Police brutally beat Steven Motley, 33, after he led officers on a chase and stole a police cruiser. Carol Adams, Motley's mother, and his daughter, identified only as L.M., are represented by Vicki Sarmiento, a Sacramento attorney.

Motley led police on a chase before stealing a police cruiser Oct. 5. A struggle with four officers in the backyard of a home on Alta Saga Drive left him unconscious, and he died three days later.

"As a result of the excessive force by (Redding Police) officers, Steven Motley died," Sarmiento wrote.

Sarmiento writes that the officers, whom she doesn't identify, "subjected him to excessive force, including but not limited to, multiple strikes, kicks and blunt force trauma to his head face and body. Officers also deployed their taser at (Motley) until he was rendered unconscious."

She wrote that he suffered multiple broken bones, brain hemorrhages and other injuries. She wrote that Redding's practice of "inaction and cover-up encouraged officers of RPD, including the defendants named herein, to believe that unjustified force and denial of prompt medical care against individuals being detained was permissible.

The police also failed to get medical care quickly enough for Motley, Sarmiento wrote.

A coroner's report found Motley died from a heart attack exacerbated by a toxic level of meth in his system.

The city last month rejected three separate claims filed on behalf of Motley's mother and two children.

The letters are dated Feb. 25, almost six weeks after the claims were filed by Vicki Sarmiento, the Southern California attorney representing Carol Adams, Motley's mother, and Ashley McCain, the mother of one of Motley's children. The third claim was filed Howard Churchill, the Redding attorney who represents Dawn Bianco, the mother of Motley's other child.

The city did not provide a reason for rejecting the claims.

Shasta County Sheriff's detectives have said Redding Police officer chased Motley Oct. 5 after spotting him driving a pickup truck on Airport Road. Motley eventually crashed into a wall and ran off, with an officer in pursuit. Motley then circled back and stole the officer's cruiser.

He drove to Alta Saga Drive, where he abandoned the squad car, detectives have said. They said an officer tackled Motley to the ground, and then three other officers joined the struggle.

He was taken to a hospital out of the area, where he died three days later.

Motley's mother, Adams, has said he was a victim of police brutality.

Sheriff's deputies are investigating the matter.

Check back as we update this story.