Monroe County District Attorney Kevin Croninger on Friday released his opinion that Sparta police Sgt. Booker Ferguson was acting within the law when he fatally shot a man in October.

Here's the full case summary and Croninger's ruling:

March 14, 2014

LEGAL OPINION REGARDING OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTING INCIDIENT ON OCTOBER 4, 2013

SUMMARY

On October 4, 2013, John O. Bartholomew was fatally shot by Sparta Police Department Sergeant Booker Ferguson during a police contact in response to a 911 call asking for assistance with a 21 year old male subject. During the call dispatch was informed the 21 year old male subject was on probation, had been drinking and had armed himself with knives during the call. Dispatch was also informed that the subject also said he was hoping the police would come and shoot him.

After consideration of all the available evidence, I have concluded that Sergeant Booker Ferguson acted within the scope of his authority and consistently with his sworn duty as a law enforcement officer. Sergeant Ferguson faced a risk of great bodily harm or death based on the actions of Mr. Bartholomew. The use of deadly force under the circumstances, however tragic, was a reasonable and lawful response to the threat. The summary and analysis of the facts discovered during the course of the investigation, which formed the basis for this opinion, are as follows:

PURPOSE

The purpose of my review of this incident was to determine whether Sergeant Ferguson acted within the scope of his authority and whether he acted consistently with his sworn duty as a law enforcement officer. I have concluded that he did act within the scope of his authority and consistently with his sworn duty as a law enforcement officer.

FACTUAL SUMMARY

According to Monroe County 911 Communications records, on October 4, 2013 at 9:13 pm the Monroe County 911 Communications Center received a 911 call reporting an individual (Craig Bartholomew) having problems with his son, John O. Bartholomew. Craig stated his son was on probation, had been drinking and had knives. Craig further stated that John Bartholomew was threatening Craig, and that John stated he was hoping the police would come and shoot him. At 9:14 pm Craig advised that John was threatening Craig’s wife, who is John’s mother (Laurie Bartholomew). Also at 9:14:28 pm Sparta Police officers were dispatched to the scene. At 9:15 pm Craig advised that John had walked out the front door, had 2 knives and another in his pocket, and that John wanted the cops to take him out. At 9:16:00 Craig reported that John was threatening him with the knife. At 9:17:10 Craig reported that John went outside to confront the cops. At 9:17:39 Craig Bartholomew announced that shots had been fired.

DCI Investigation

DCI Special Agents Joseph Welch, Vern Vandeberg, Johnathan Meyer, and Adam Widdicombe conducted interviews with witnesses and people who were in the area of the incident. They also collected evidence from the scene. The DCI Special Agents interviewed several people including Sergeant Ferguson, Sergeant Joel Ames, Officer Jenna Branigan, Craig Bartholomew, Laurie Bartholomew, and several other citizen witnesses who were near the area the incident occurred. Based on the investigations of the DCI Special Agents a fact summary is below:

Sergeant Ferguson reports that prior to arriving on scene that evening he was advised that someone was holding a knife in a threatening manner. Sergeant Ferguson also noted that prior to his arrival he and Sergeant Joel Ames had advised the dispatcher to advise the parents to lock themselves into the closet. Sergeant Ferguson was further advised that the subject had left the house but was returning. Sergeant Ferguson remembered the suspect being described as a male wearing a black tee shirt and that the male had three knives, one being hidden in his back pocket. Sergeant Ferguson stated that when he arrived on scene he was in a fully marked City of Sparta Police Department Squad and also wearing his City of Sparta Police Uniform. Sergeant Ferguson also reported that upon arrival on scene his red and blue lights were on.

Upon arrival on scene Sergeant Ferguson reported that he was going to wait for Sergeant Ames to arrive on scene, while doing so he observed a male subject matching the description of the suspect. Sergeant Ferguson then pulled his vehicle to the wrong side of the road to light up the subject who, at that time, was walking away from him. Sergeant Ferguson then shined his spotlight on the subject. The subject continued walking away from Sergeant Ferguson to a sidewalk that lead to the driveway. The subject then walked down the driveway to the street and once the subject got to the street started walking towards Sergeant Ferguson. As the subject was walking towards Sergeant Ferguson, Sergeant Ferguson could see a silver bladed knife that was in the subject’s right hand with the blade pointed down the subject’s side. As Sergeant Ferguson got out of his car the subject was going from the driveway to the street. At this point the subject started walking towards Sergeant Ferguson. Sergeant Ferguson then began to tell the subject to stop and drop the knife. Sergeant Ferguson told the subject this several times. The subject continued to walk towards Sergeant Ferguson and was now close enough for Sergeant Ferguson to see the subject’s eyes. Sergeant Ferguson continued to give commands to the subject, telling him to stop and drop the weapon. The subject then told Sergeant Ferguson something to the effect of “The only way I am going to stop is if you shoot me.” Sergeant Ferguson was then able to see that the subject had two knives and the subject continued towards Sergeant Ferguson in an intent manner. Sergeant Ferguson then began to walk backwards, but at a slower pace than the subject was approaching him. Sergeant Ferguson reported that the subject continued to come at him, intensified his look, raised one of his hands containing a knife, and continued to disobey Sergeant Ferguson’s commands. As Sergeant Ferguson continued to

back up he ran into something, meanwhile the subject continued at him. At this time Sergeant Ferguson was fearful for his life given all of the circumstances and actions of the subject. Sergeant Ferguson then discharged his firearm. Sergeant Ferguson reported that his department issued firearm had been pointed at the subject through his contact with the subject. After discharging his firearm Sergeant Ferguson secured the scene with the aid of Sergeant Ames. Sergeant Ames reported he observed two knives that were only a couple inches away from the subject’s right arm and that he, Sergeant Ames, kicked both knives away from the subject. Sergeant Ames reported that Sergeant Ferguson was able to handcuff the subject and right before or right after being handcuffed the subject stated “kill me.” Sergeant Ames reported that Sergeant Ferguson then began administering first aid to the subject who had been identified as John O. Bartholomew.

Laurie Bartholomew reported that 2-3 years ago her son, John, had been taken to an

in-patient suicide ward because of the families concerns over John talking about suicide. Laurie described that in the two months prior to October 4, 2013 John had been getting continually worse. Laurie described that she and Craig had told John several times that if his behavior did not improve they would have to kick him out of the house. Laurie reported that she and Craig had continual problems with John drinking too much and being too loud in the home. Laurie reported that on the night of October 04, 2013 between 8:00 and 9:00 pm she was in her bedroom reading and John was being very loud and swearing. Laurie reported that she asked John to keep it down. Laurie said when she went to John’s room to tell him to keep it down she thought she could smell alcohol. Laurie reported that a short time later Craig went to John’s room and found a bottle of brandy. Laurie stated the bottle of brandy was open and there was approximately half a cup missing from the bottle. Laurie reported that Craig then told John he needed to get out of the house. John said he wasn’t going to leave and a verbal argument ensued and escalated between Craig and John. Laurie stated that Craig told her to call the police. Laurie then went back into the bedroom and when she came back out Craig was on the phone with the police. Laurie reported that when Craig was on the phone John immediately went to the kitchen and grabbed several knives and put them on the table. Laurie stated John then took at least one large serrated bread knife and a steak knife in his hands. John then started going out the door and stated “ You’re going to watch your son die tonight.” Laurie reported that John also stated he was going to kill the police when they arrived. Laurie approached John, trying to make him give up the knives, but he refused. John then stabbed one of the steak knives into the cushion of a love seat. Laurie stated that John then walked out the front door of the residence with knives in his hand. Laurie reported a short time later she could hear sirens. Laurie Bartholomew stated that she heard Sergeant Ferguson tell John Bartholomew to “Drop the knife!” at least 3 times. Laurie Bartholomew further stated that John Bartholomew did not drop the knife and continued to deliberately walk towards Sergeant Ferguson. Laurie Bartholomew further stated that Sergeant Ferguson gave John Bartholomew every chance to drop the knife but he didn’t. Laurie further stated that she did not fault Sergeant Ferguson at all for John being shot. She wished Sergeant Ferguson would not have had to shoot John, but she believed it was the only option that John gave him. Laurie further reported that prior to the arrival of officers she was concerned about what would take place because John had knives and was more distraught than she had previously seen him.

Several neighbors in the area were also interviewed by DCI Agents. One neighbor reported hearing “Put it down” or “Lay it down” prior to hearing shots being fired. Another neighbor indicated that he heard sirens approaching the neighborhood and then heard tires coming to an abrupt stop. He then heard someone yell “Get down, get down” several times.

An autopsy was performed on John Bartholomew, the results of that autopsy are consistent with the statements of Sergeant Ferguson and other witnesses.

A blood sample of John Bartholomew showed he had both THC (commonly known as marijuana), and ethanol (alcohol) in his blood. The ethanol was at a level of .149. These blood results show that John Bartholomew was intoxicated at the time of the incident and also likely under the influence of THC.

A blood sample was taken from Sergeant Ferguson and showed nothing of relevance, note, or concern.

Recovered from the scene by DCI Special Agents were 2 knives in the street and 1 knife in the bushes near the home. Also recovered were 3 shell casings.

FACTUAL ANALYSIS

The statements of Sergeant Ferguson and members of the public who were present at or near the scene as well as the physical evidence recovered from the scene are consistent. The autopsy of John Bartholomew is also consistent with the statements obtained by DCI Special Agents. Additionally, statements are supported by other evidence obtained during the investigation.

Sergeant Ferguson was involved in a valid and lawful attempt to investigate threats made by an individual who had been consuming alcohol and possession of a dangerous weapon(s). Any time alcohol, controlled substances, and dangerous weapons are involved in a situation, it is inherently dangerous to members of the public and law enforcement. These situations are inherently dangerous because members of law enforcement will likely be contacting an individual who is intoxicated and armed. When Sergeant Ferguson made contact with John Bartholomew he gave the necessary orders to protect his safety. When John Bartholomew ignored these commands and continued to advance towards Sergeant Ferguson he caused Sergeant Ferguson to reasonably fear imminent death or serious physical harm. Sergeant Ferguson attempted several times to ensure his safety and the safety of others around by trying to gain John Bartholomew’s compliance with non forceful verbal commands. When John Bartholomew ignored these commands and continued to advance toward Sergeant Ferguson with a dangerous weapon, Sergeant Ferguson had no choice but to use force. Given John Bartholomew was armed with a knife(s) and charging at Sergeant Ferguson any lesser means of force, such as a taser or pepper spray, would have been unreasonable in the exercise of self defense as any such attempt would have exposed Sergeant Ferguson to a greater risk of injury or death. The use of an alternative weapon would likely not have been sufficient to stop the threat. Additionally, the situation occurred very quickly, dispatch records show the events took place over approximately 2 minutes or less and it does not appear there was adequate time for Sergeant Ferguson to use any alternative weapons. Finally, the law does not require a law enforcement officer to exhaust all less lethal methods before using a firearm, to do so would expose an officer to greater risk of injury or death.

Given the statements of Craig and Laurie Bartholomew that John Bartholomew stated he wanted “the cops to take him out”, it is quite likely that John Bartholomew was suicidal and that he was intending to provoke lethal force from law enforcement. The level of intoxication of John Bartholomew was also likely a factor in his actions.

CONCLUSION

Sergeant Booker Ferguson acted within the scope of his authority, consistently with his training, and consistently with his sworn duty as a law enforcement officer. Police officers are lawfully allowed to use force, including deadly force, when they have an objectively reasonable belief that such force is reasonably necessary to protect themselves or others from the risk of serious bodily injury or death. Police officers are provided continuing training regarding the use of force. The facts show Sergeant Ferguson was justified in his use of force. Had Sergeant Ferguson not acted in the manner he did, there likely would have been significant injury to himself or other members of the public. While this is a very unfortunate and tragic circumstance, both for the family of John Bartholomew and Sergeant Ferguson, there is nothing more Sergeant Ferguson could have done to avoid this outcome. Situations like these show why the job of members of law enforcement are so difficult. At any time they can be put into a situation were they must make incredibly difficult decisions, like the one Sergeant Ferguson had to make in this case. It is my conclusion that in this case Sergeant Ferguson made the correct decision. Sergeant Ferguson’s decision likely prevented serious bodily injury or harm to both himself and other members of the public. Not only did Sergeant Ferguson make the correct decision but he also demonstrated an example of the high character of law enforcement officers by rendering first aid, to an individual who just minutes earlier had put both the safety of himself and other members of the public in danger.

Kevin Croninger

District Attorney

Monroe County