STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. -- A justice sentenced a former police officer Friday to one to three years in prison for a fatal crash three years ago in which the defendant, who was off-duty, was impaired and speeding when he struck a victim crossing a Mariners Harbor street and then left the scene.

Ex-cop Joseph McClean lowered his head at the defense table as state Supreme Court Justice Mario F. Mattei imposed sentence. Mattei said a sentence of incarceration was "warranted, necessary and proper" based on the evidence.

The defendant, who plans to appeal, was also fined $2,000 and had his driver's license revoked.

Moments earlier, McClean had apologized to the family of the victim, William Bruce Hemphill, saying, "I truly am deeply sorry for what happened [and] all the pain I caused Mr. Hemphill's family."

In a victim-impact statement, Hemphill's sister, Louise Hemphill Valora, told McClean she doesn't hate him but can't forgive him for driving off after hitting her brother.

In October, McClean, 32, was convicted of leaving a scene without reporting, criminally negligent homicide and driving while impaired for fatally striking Hemphill, 51, on Richmond Terrace near Simonson Avenue in Mariners Harbor on Oct. 4, 2013, at 6:18 a.m.

McClean had been drinking with friends at a birthday party in a Castleton Corners bar before the incident, but testified he did not believe he was intoxicated or impaired when he hit Hemphill with his SUV.

McClean admitted to consuming six light beers and eight shots of liquor over more than four hours during the course of the party. He said he drank his last shot around 4 a.m.

A Breathalyzer test measure McClean's blood-alcohol content at .073 percent, evidence showed.

Such a reading is just below the legal threshold of .08 percent needed to charge a person with a misdemeanor count of driving while intoxicated, but is high enough to sustain a lesser charge of driving while impaired.

After hitting Hemphill, McClean testified he "continued to drive" ahead without stopping, or attempting to make a U-turn and return to aid the victim, or calling 911.

He wound up circling around the area and returned to the scene about five minutes later, telling a police sergeant there he was involved in the incident.

McClean said he couldn't explain why he failed to immediately stop after striking Hemphill.

McClean's lawyer, Howard E. Tanner, told the court his client has lost his job with the NYPD.

In a statement after the conviction, District Attorney Michael E. McMahon said, "We praise the jury for their diligence on this difficult case and we're satisfied that justice has been served for Mr. Hemphill. Our thoughts and prayers remain with his family during this difficult time."

McMahon lauded Assistant District Attorneys Mark Palladino and Frank Prospero, who tried the case, for "securing a just conviction for the victim's family and the people of Staten Island."