New Update on Wenatchee Police Officer Involved Shooting

Update as of October 11, 2013 at 10:00 A.M.

The investigation into the Officer involved shooting on October 5 by a Wenatchee Police Officer is nearing its completion. Chelan County Sheriff’s Office Detectives have completed all interviews and evidence has been processed. At this point, all indications appear that the shooting and use of lethal force was justified. At the final completion of the investigation by the Chelan County Sheriff’s Office, which is still several days away, the case will ultimately be turned over to the Chelan County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office for their review.

According to Wenatchee Police Chief Tom Robbins, the officers involved in this incident are; Officer Jordan Orrell, is a six year veteran of the department currently assigned to the Columbia River Drug Task Force. Officer Orrell was working on patrol at the time of the incident.

Officer Justin Kissel, is a twelve and a half year veteran of the department and a former custody officer with the Chelan County Regional Jail. Officer Kissel is a Firearms Training Officer, SWAT Team Leader and a Combat First Aid Trainer.

The officers were in the process of arresting Jeffrey Sutherland on a felony warrant and attempting to restrain him to apply handcuffs, when he pulled the .380 caliber semi-automatic handgun and fired at Officer Orrell. Officer Kissel returned fire fatally injuring Sutherland. Officer Orrell did not use his firearm.

Chief Robbins states, “While this is a tragic loss of life and our condolences go out to Sutherland’s family, police work is dangerous, and when it is necessary for officers to protect their lives, or the lives of others, they are trained to take the necessary amount of force to stop the threat”.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update as of October 8, 2013 at 8;45 A.M.

Investigators are releasing the name of the suspect in Saturday’s shooting. He is identified as 24 year old Jeffery A. Sutherland of Wenatchee. No further information into the investigation is available at this time, but we will make updates as the investigation allows.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update as of October 7, 2013 at 3:00 P.M.

Investigators in the Officer involved shooting are still not releasing the names of either the suspect or the Officer’s involved. The original Felony warrant on the suspect was out of King County Sheriff’s Office and was for Theft of a Firearm. The firearm used by the suspect was a .380 Semi-automatic and was not the firearm associated with the theft. Additional information will be provided as appropriate so as not to hinder the investigation. It is confirmed that only one Officer returned fire during the shooting. To clarify in the original media release, when stated that “Officers returned fire……” it was simply to advise there was in fact a return of fire from Police. It was unclear at the time whether one or both Officers actually returned fire, but now we know, only one returned fire.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wenatchee Police Department

Officer Involved Shooting

On Saturday, October 05, 2013 at about 2:00 P.M., Wenatchee Police Officers responded to a residence in the 800 Block of Kittitas Street to arrest a 24 year old male with a felony warrant. Officers were at the home a short time earlier on a medical assist and had left the residence when they were informed of the warrant. When Officers contacted the male inside the residence to take him into custody, he fired a gun at the Officers. Officers returned fire, striking the suspect. The Officers began administering medical assistance on the suspect immediately and requested an ambulance. Paramedics arrived a short time later, but lifesaving measures were unsuccessful and the suspect died at the scene. Neither of the two Officers were injured during the shooting. The Chelan County Sheriff’s Office and the Washington State Patrol are investigating the shooting. The investigation is still in its preliminary stage and there will be more information after the investigation is complete. Names are not being released at this time.