Crime & Safety New Rochelle Man Sentenced in Vehicular Manslaughter Case that Killed His Friend The incident resulted in the death of Shaquan Jackson, a friend and passenger in the car. Reply

New Rochelle resident Juan Barragan-Reyes, 22, was sentenced to one-to-three years in prison in connection with his guilty plea in a vehicular manslaughter case where Shaquan Jackson, a friend and passenger in Barragan-Reyes’ car, died in a crash.

The accident occurred in October 2013 following a domestic violence incident in New Rochelle. Barragan-Reyes led police on a high-speed chase before hitting a tree and flipping his vehicle on Webster Avenue. Both Barragan-Reyes and Jackson were ejected from the car and were alive when police found them, but Jackson later died at the hospital. Related: New Rochelle Man, 21, Pleads Guilty to Vehicular Manslaughter, Other Charges Barragan-Reyes pleaded guilty to multiple felony and misdemeanor counts a year later.

Below is the announcement about the sentencing from Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore: Westchester County District Attorney Janet DiFiore announced that Juan Barragan-Reyes (DOB 11/09/92) of 88 Horton Avenue, New Rochelle, New York was sentenced today to one to three years in prison on his October 2014 guilty plea to:

one count of Manslaughter in the Second Degree, a class “C” Felony,

two counts of Vehicular Manslaughter in the Second Degree, class “D” Felonies,

one count of Unlawfully Fleeing a Police Officer, a class “D” Felony,

two counts of Driving While Intoxicated, class “A” Misdemeanors,

one count of Reckless Driving, a class “A” Misdemeanor under the NYS Vehicle and Traffic Law,

one count of Aggravated Unlicensed Operation of a Motor Vehicle, a class “A” Misdemeanor under the NYS Vehicle and Traffic Law,

one count of Speeding, a Violation of the NYS Vehicle and Traffic Law,

one count of Harassment in the Second Degree, a Violation,

one count of Unlawful Possession of Marijuana, a Violation. relating to the death of Shaquan Jackson. On October 6th, 2013, at approximately 11:55 p.m., a New Rochelle police officer was interviewing the defendant’s girlfriend, in front of her apartment on 4th St., regarding a domestic violence incident when the defendant drove up, in a Honda, stopped briefly, pointed his right index finger at his girlfriend and then drove away at a high rate of speed.

The victim was observed sitting in the front passenger seat. The police officer entered his marked car and began to follow the defendant observing him driving at a high rate of speed through red lights at several intersections before losing sight of the defendant’s vehicle in the vicinity of Webster Ave. and Eastchester Rd.

The police officer continued to locate the defendant, who he came upon shortly after midnight on October 7th, in front of 754 Webster Ave. The defendant’s vehicle had hit a tree and a retaining wall, before flipping over. Neither man was wearing a seat belt and both were ejected through the passenger door. The deceased laying on his back approximately 29 feet in front of the Honda and the defendant was found a few minutes later lying on his back approximately 87 feet in front of the vehicle. Both men were alive but unresponsive. The deceased was taken to Jacobi Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 1:48 a.m.