A judge on Thursday sentenced a Kyle man who has a history of reckless driving to 22.5 years in prison for causing the death of his passenger after a multi-car wreck last year.

Jimmy Pilcher, 37, fled authorities in a white Impala before running a red light and colliding with three other cards on East North Street on Oct. 11, prosecutors said.

Tamera Hunter, 40, of Kyle was killed and multiple people from the three vehicles were injured. Pilcher’s other passenger survived with non-life threatening injuries.

Traces of methamphetamine and marijuana were later found in his system. At the time of the crash, he also had a blood-alcohol level roughly twice the legal .08 limit, according to the State's Attorney's Office.

Survivors who recounted their lingering trauma and physical injuries watched as Pilcher reacted without emotion to his sentence for vehicular homicide and aggravated eluding. Pilcher had a warrant for a probation violation in Custer County at the time of the crash which came after a 3-minute police chase. Pennington County deputies began following Pilcher after someone reported that an Impala was trying to run someone off the road on Highway 44 prior to the chase.

Elizabeth Mousel, who suffered neck and back injuries in the accident, briefly wept on the witness stand as she recounted how she is still afraid to go near the intersection where the wreck happened.

Despite the pleas for a long sentence from victims, Pilcher had an unlikely supporter at his sentencing — Hunter's cousin.

Marjorie Hunter-Janis said Pilcher and Tamera Hunter were long-time friends, so she could not believe he would intentionally cause her death. Hunter-Janis said she was bothered by the testimony of those injured, saying her family had suffered much more pain from the accident.

"They are alive, my cousin is passed away," she said. "It's hard every day. She was like my little sister."

According to court records, Pilcher has pleaded guilty in the past to driving without a license, driving with a suspended license, speeding, failing to wear a seat belt, failing to stop at an intersection, possession of controlled substances and disorderly conduct involving domestic abuse.

Pilcher told the judge he had stayed sober for a considerable time leading up to the crash. Things might have been much different if he stayed sober one more day, said Sharon Kallemeyn, a county victim's advocate.