JASON GEARY THE LEDGER

BARTOW | Prosecutors have concluded Polk County sheriff's deputies were justified in opening fire on Sheldon Norman, 21, of Lakeland, who had been threatening to kill himself and drew a gun during a traffic stop, according to a letter released Monday by the State Attorney's Office in Bartow.

Assistant State Attorney John Waters wrote in his summary of the fatal Oct. 11, 2013, shooting on East Memorial Boulevard near Ingraham Avenue that Norman ignored deputies' commands to stop and they defended them­selves.

"They began to fire towards Mr. Norman, who despite being hit multiple times, continued to raise the firearm and eventually shot himself in the right side of his head," Waters wrote.

Norman had been facing outstanding arrest warrants and told his sister, Jocelyn Manganello, that he would rather die than get arrested, Waters wrote.

Norman had arrest warrants for grand theft and violation of probation, and he was considered a suspect in the burglary of Manganello's home a couple days before the shooting, according to an investigative report.

On the day of the shooting, Norman, who was armed with a pistol, got into his sister's Hyundai Sonata and told her to start driving, reports state.

Manganello "began sending her husband phone messages to call law enforcement and to track her cellular phone," Waters wrote.

Sgt. Tommy Dixon, Deputy Aaron Motta and Deputy Matthew Cromartie were dispatched to locate the car and were told the passenger was armed and dangerous, Waters wrote.

When they stopped the car, Manganello immediately got out of the driver's side door, Waters wrote.

Deputies saw Norman begin to raise the firearm, and Motta shouted for him to put down the gun, Waters wrote.

Norman ignored the commands and continued to raise the firearm, Waters wrote.

Dixon and Motta opened fire because they were in fear for their lives and were justified in doing so, Waters wrote.

"Mr. Norman's actions in raising the firearm and ­ignoring the commands to stop created a reasonable belief on the part of Sgt. Dixon and Deputy Motta that the use of deadly force was necessary to defend themselves from bodily harm," Waters wrote.

An investigative report states Dixon fired six times, and Motta fired four times.

Norman was hit three times in his shoulder and clavicle area in addition to his self-inflicted "close contact gunshot wound to the right side of his head," Waters wrote.

[ Jason Geary can be reached at jason.geary@theledger.com or 863-802-7536. ]