The release of another police video shows officers firing at the unarmed victim of a 2013 police shooting in Eufaula, Ala., while he is seated in the passenger side of a car and attempting to drive it away.

A 26-year-old man named Cameron Massey sat in the passenger's seat of a car in October 2013 when police officers sprayed him with five fatal shots, a video originally obtained by Buzzfeed News shows.

Advertisement

The video, which had already been seen by Massey's family and attorney, hadn't been previously released publicly and casts doubt on earlier claims that the two officers involved in the shooting had acted in self-defense.

"You have a situation where two officers beside the vehicle, which was blocked in, there was just no danger to the officers or anyone there," Mario Williams, the lawyer for the Massey family, told the Daily News.

Advertisement

"I believe officer's safety is a real issue, but you can't justify lethal force if you have no facts that you were in danger," he added.

Massey's family filed a civil lawsuit in July 2015 for his death claiming that because Massey's car had been pulled over in the gravel parking lot of an auto-body shop, he had nowhere to flee.

"He was never in the driver's seat and the car went essentially nowhere," the complaint alleges.

Massey, who was from Columbus, Ga., and the driver of the black Infinity he was in were pulled over after they changed lanes illegally and after reports that a vehicle of that description was transporting a load of marijuana, according to Buzzfeed News.

Body cam footage shows Eufaula police officers shoot Camera Massey, 26. (Buzzfeed News/via YouTube)

Officers found seven pounds of marijuana in the trunk of the car after searching it and asked the driver, 30-year-old Joshua Kelly, to exit the vehicle after he was "loud, boisterous" and "aggressive," according to a police statement made available to Buzzfeed News.

Williams, the family's lawyer, questions whether marijuana was actually in the vehicle at the time because drugs didn't turn up until a second logged search of the car after the fact.

Eufaula Police Chief Ralph Conner, whose body cam footage was the content of the released video, interacts with Massey while he stayed inside the car and directs him to put his hands on the dashboard, the video shows.

Conner had shot another unarmed black man in 1983, before he became the police chief of the Eufaula Police Department, New Republic reported.

Advertisement

"On the dashboard! Put your hands on the dashboard!" Conner yells at Massey.

Conner fires one shot as Massey attempts to drive the car away while sitting in the passenger's seat and Kelly is handcuffed and lying face down on the ground outside the car, according to the video.

Conner fires a single shot as the car slowly rolls away followed by four shots fired by Officer Phillips.

Cameron Massey was shot after he and the driver of the car he was in, Joshua Kelly, were pulled over with marijuana in the trunk of their car. (via Facebook)

Conner then hurries back to this police car to call for backup and then to another police car after his police radio doesn't work.

"F**k!" he says in the frenzied aftermath of the shooting.

"We need an ambulance. Shots fired," Conner pleads into the police radio.

Advertisement

The shooting triggered protests in 2013 in the town of Eufala before many other shootings of unarmed black men and women sparked demonstrations throughout the country in the following months.

Like in other police shootings, in April 2014, a Barbour County grand jury found no probable cause to indict either officer, who were placed on administrative leave after the shooting, according to the Ledger-Enquirer.

"It's just like you kill an animal and you pull off, and it's over with," Massey's mother, Jacqueline," told WLTZ after the shooting in 2013.

The family's suit does not specify a dollar amount they are seeking for Massey's death.

lbult@nydailynews.com