Eric Woomer

ewoomer@visaliatimesdelta.com

Carol Allen watched from her bedroom window as her son, armed with knives, ran outside the home and was confronted by police. As she waited on the phone with dispatchers, she heard officers yelling for her son to put the knives down.

Then, she heard two shots followed by sirens and chaos.

She assumed police had shot her son in the legs to stop the threat. She knew police had been called nine times before for instances with her son, who had been diagnosed as mentally ill in 2009. Crisis intervention teams had been able to talk him down in prior instances.

Police say every call is different, though.

Hours later, a sheriff’s deputy told Carol Allen that her son, James Allen, 25, was dead.

The family wants answers.

“I wasn’t home the night Visalia police officers killed my son. The pain has been horrendous. Not knowing why. Not having any answers. Cremating my son without understanding why he died,” said George Allen. “We’ve talked about scattering his ashes over the mountains. I guess I am just not ready to scatter.”

Carol and George Allen have tried every avenue they know. They’ve sent formal requests for 911 tapes. They’ve asked for reports from the Tulare County Sheriff’s Department, the agency that investigated the deadly shooting. They’ve talked to Police Chief Colleen Mestas and high ranking members of Visalia Police Department.

They’ve been denied every step of the way. Law enforcement says it’s to preserve the integrity of the investigation.

They’re no closer now, six months after James Allen’s death, to knowing what caused Officer Mark Gonzales to pull the trigger. The Allens, who say as many as five officers were lined in front of the family’s home on that October night, want to know why just one officer fired.

This is Gonzales’ second shooting.

“It’s extremely hard not to know why they shot him,” Carol Allen said. “Why didn’t they have any thought of coming to the door, like before? I never got to say goodbye. I didn’t think they’d killed him.”

A neighbor, Lee Gross, said he saw as many as eight officers pull their guns before Allen ever walked outside. He also says he never saw Allen rush toward police. He says the big question is whether police had all the resources to handle a situation with the mentally ill.

“I don’t think so. They were ready to shoot,” Gross said. “It struck me, they were on a mission. I just thought, ‘This isn’t going to end well.’”

Chief Colleen Mestas said she’s behind her officer 100 percent.

“Our officers were charged and retreated a great distance before firing,” she said. “Every situation is unique. I support my officers and their actions.”

The Allens have until April 18 to file a claim against the city. The Sheriff’s Department sent the file to the District Attorney’s office for review. No decision has been made.

The Allens have filed a tort claim against the county for what they say is a failure on the county’s mental health system. Carol Allen said a judge had previously recommended James Allen be committed for mental health review. That memo never made it to the county.

James Allen’s death is one of 16 officer-involved shootings in Visalia since 2003. Tulare has had six since 2009. The Sheriff’s Department has investigated or been involved in 28 officer-involved investigations since 2010.

The FBI collects information on a number of crimes throughout the country, but statistics on how many, where and under what circumstances officers use lethal force isn’t tracked. In fact, there’s no law enforcement agency to keeps complete information on officer-involved shootings.

The Memphis Model

After a string of tragic endings to police confrontations with the mentally ill in Memphis, the police there decided it was time to handle certain calls with a little more compassion and a lot more education. Doctors, social workers, police and two universities collaborated to create the Memphis Model and a Crisis Intervention Team, CIT.

The Memphis Model is one of the only police training techniques to be approved by the National Alliance on Mental Illness. The model has been recognized by NAMI as the best practice since 1996.

Visalia Sgt. Jim Carr uses an example from his own experience to portray the importance of CIT and creating a rapport with subjects that are in crisis. In doing so, officers are better able to listen and be heard.

It was 10 years ago that Carr, just 10 feet away from a man with a shot gun held to his own throat, watched the man pull the trigger. It was a moment that made Carr realized more education was needed to deal with crisis situations involving the mentally ill.

These types of calls come in daily to police, Carr said. Dispatchers receive more than 800 calls each year to help handle a situation with the mentally ill.

Locally, the program is only offered to officers who want to go through the training, it’s not mandatory. Carr says by giving officers the opportunity to choose training, it weeds out those who aren’t serious about the program’s mission.

The training is offered just twice a year and consists of four 10-hour days, each with intense education from metal health specialists, doctors, therapists and officers. It also includes visits to mental health clinics in the county.

Mestas says she encourages her officers to take the training. It’s not known if CIT-trained officers showed up on James Allen’s call.

The after effect

The emotional struggle after an officer-involved shooting doesn’t stop with the family. Officers are rushed from the scene, given some food and then questioned. In many cases, it’s hours before they make it home.

Once they get home, the situation is often replayed in their head. The United States Department of Justice estimates 83 percent of officers have recurring thoughts of the incident. Visalia Officer Robert Gilson said, having been involved in a shooting earlier this year, the effects go beyond the first 24 hours.

“We are not invincible. Using lethal force is the last thing we want to do when we go on duty,” Gilson said. “There’s a loss of appetite. Loss of sleep. These are things the body reacts to. We don’t want to take the life of another human being.”

The top complaints by officers after a shooting include, anxiety, fear of legal trouble and sadness. About 26 percent feel elated, the DOJ reports.

Law enforcement throughout the state are required to go through perishable skills training every two years. The training for most officers in Tulare County takes place at the College of the Sequoias’ Hanford campus.

Officers go through life-like situations that put them up against situations that would likely lead to an officer-involved shooting.

Acting Sheriff Mike Boudreaux said he’s adding a force-simulator that will be available to deputies to ensure they have all the training they need.

“Everyone needs to refresh and get there and get that expertise,” he said. “It’s important. It’s an added tool.”

Boudreaux says each deputy reacts differently and goes through a range of emotions after a shooting. He’s said the department tries to give every deputy the resources to get back to work as quickly as they can. That’s not always the case. Visalia, Tulare and the Sheriff’s Department allow officers to request more time to cope after shootings, if needed.

“It just depends on the officer and what they need,” Boudreaux said.

Mestas says its the death of Visalia officer James Rapozo in 1998 that has caused her officers to be on higher alert for danger. His death showed how dangerous being a police officer can be, even when wearing a bullet-proof vest.

Rapozo died when he was shot while serving a gang-related search warrant.

Mestas says Rapozo’s death shows how an officer-involved shooting not only affects the officer and families, but also the department as a whole.

“It’s the culture we live in. Officers aren’t safe. I have never seen officer-involved shootings like there are now,” Mestas said. “People have no respect for law enforcement.”

Administrative reviews

Any time an officer fires a weapon, whether or not someone is hit, an administrative review, also called an internal investigation, follows.

Since mid-2010, that investigation is most often done by the Tulare County Sheriff’s Department. Investigations can take months.

Even when an officer shoots an animal, an internal review is performed to determine whether policy procedures were met for the firing of a weapon, Mestas said.

The Tulare Police Department follows the same procedures.

Often an internal review is conducted by the department whose officer was involved, Mestas added.

When someone is injured or killed in an incident where an officer fired a weapon, both an internal review and a criminal review are conducted. All cases are submitted to the District Attorney’s Office for review. None have been found criminal.

Officers are always placed on paid-administrative leave. In Visalia, that’s typically a work week.

For the Sheriff’s Department, it’s about three days. Officers are required by the Sheriff’s Department to undergo a psychological therapy session before returning to work.

Visalia and Tulare also recommend it.

“It’s important for our officers to make sure they’re healthy and ready to come back to work,” Mestas said. “No one wants to take a life. We want to stop a threat.”

Officer-involved shootings

What an officer goes through during incident:

• Tunnel vision: 51%

• Heightened visual detail: 56%

• Auditory blunting: 82%

• Slow motion: 56%

• Fast motion: 23%

Officers’ responses after shooting:

• Trouble sleeping: 48%

• Fatigue: 46%

• Crying: 24%

• Appetite loss: 17%

• Headache: 7%

Thoughts and feelings:

• Recurring thoughts: 83%

• Anxiety: 40%

• Fear of legal trouble: 34%

• Elation: 26%

• Nightmares: 18%

Source: National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice