UPDATED at 8:40 a.m. Friday with sentence sought by county prosecutors in earlier case

ST. LOUIS COUNTY • A police standoff in Marlborough on Wednesday night has ended with the man's apparent suicide.

The man was holed up in his apartment in the 7000 block of Heege Road after he pointed a gun at an officer during a traffic stop, police say. When police went into the apartment, they found him dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the chest.

St. Louis County police on Thursday identified the man as Joseph T. Consiglio, 66.

It all started at about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday when the man was riding a motorcycle in the 4000 block of Germania Avenue in St. Louis city. A police sergeant pulled him over for a traffic violation. Consiglio gave the sergeant his identification, and the sergeant went back to his patrol car to enter the information into his in-car computer, police say.

That's when Consiglio allegedly pulled a handgun and pointed it at the sergeant. The sergeant put the police car in reverse, to get away, and Consiglio sped off on his motorcycle. The sergeant, 38, was not hurt.

The sergeant chased Consiglio briefly, losing sight of him near Gravois Road and Seibert Avenue.

Because the man had given the officer his ID, St. Louis city police officers knew who he was and where he lived. When police converged on his apartment, officers called him on the telephone. He said he wasn't coming out of his apartment and that he had a gun, according to St. Louis County Police Officer Randy Vaughn.

Officers with the St. Louis County police tactical operations were called to the scene. They went inside and found that he had killed himself, police say.

Court records show that Consiglio was scheduled to appear in St. Louis County court on Nov. 22 to plead guilty in a DWI case. He had been charged for driving with a revoked or suspended license and DWI as an aggravated offender on April 19, 2012.

St. Louis County prosecutors were recommending he complete a 120-day alcohol treatment program in that case and, if he failed to do so, he would go to prison for five years. Consiglio's defense lawyer could not be reached for comment.