Advertisement Fatal Roswell shootout caught on camera James Cupp says his version of events are different from the official version Share Copy Link Copy

The moments leading up to the shootout in Roswell that ended with a gunman dead and police officer injured were caught on camera. VIDEO: Witness records police chase leading to shootoutJames Cupp, who shot the home video from his phone Monday morning, said he didn't even realize what he was witnessing for a few minutes. The state police car in front of him was going so slow along US 285 he thought someone's vehicle was breaking down, not that a violent shootout was about to occur."OK, we're on a slow speed chase," Cupp is heard saying on the phone video. "We've got traffic on both sides blocked off."Cupp said he traveled for about four miles like this, with the getaway car moving at a snail's pace."For some reason, this guy wouldn't go any faster than five miles per hour," he said. State police said the green Jaguar they were after was being driven by a convicted felon, Christoval Quintana, 30, of Lovington, N.M.The shootout began, at mile marker 87 on the freeway; but before that, Cupp told Action 7 News police were trying everything to stop Quintana."The guy won't pull over they've already pulled out spike strips," Cupp said. When Quintana finally did stop, police say he opened fire first.Cupp has a different version of events; he believes police coming from the other direction blocked off Quintana's car, and it was an officer who walked up to the passenger's side and fired the first shot."He just casually walked up ... right up to the side window, and stood there not even for a split second, and next thing you know he just unloads his gun into the side window," Cupp said. Even after that, Cupp said Quintana's car started inching along, and then, "all of a sudden everybody just started unloading their guns."Quintana later died from his injuries. The state police sergeant, whose name has not yet been released, is recovering.After speaking to Cupp, Action 7 News called State Police to inquire about his version of events. Sergeant Emmanuel Gutierrez maintains the version that Quintana fired first, though he did ask for Cupp's contact information to interview him, and added that the case is still under investigation.