The Glendale Heights police officer who shot a fleeing suspect Wednesday had reason to fear for his life and that of others, authorities said.

Joseph Frustaci, 53, of Bloomingdale died after leading police on a chase that ended with the officer firing at him eight times, DuPage County State's Atty. Joseph Birkett said at a news conference Thursday in Wheaton.

Advertisement

"All preliminary indications are that this was a justifiable use of force by the police officer," Birkett said. "The coroner has also given us information that Frustaci may well have turned the gun on himself."

Authorities said Frustaci shot his girlfriend once in the head inside the Bloomingdale townhouse they shared. The 40-year-old woman was listed in critical condition Thursday in Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Advertisement

Frustaci, 53, was preparing to move out of the townhouse in the 100 block of Castle Rock Lane in Bloomingdale when the girlfriend's son came home sometime before 4 p.m. Wednesday, police said. When his mother arrived, the couple started arguing, according to the account the boy gave police.

At one point, Frustaci went to the garage, returned with a handgun and shot her in front of her son, police said.

The boy saw Frustaci speed away in his black Jeep and called 911, providing authorities with Frustaci's name and license plate number, police said.

"We credit that information with possibly saving other lives," Birkett said, "because if this individual had not been stopped and apprehended, he may well have killed someone else in the process of fleeing."

Minutes later, Glendale Heights police spotted the Jeep and tried to pull Frustaci over. He led them on a chase before ramming into a patrol car blocking the intersection of Fullerton Avenue and Schmale Road.

An officer standing near the rammed patrol car fired eight rounds at Frustaci, Birkett said, adding that it was not yet known whether Frustaci fired at police.

After traveling a short distance, Frustaci's Jeep hit a second car, left the road and rolled into a retention pond on the west side of Schmale.

Birkett declined to identify the officer or say what he does for the Glendale Heights Police Department, adding that he has not been suspended from duty.

Advertisement

"The law allows a police officer to use deadly force when he is in [fear] for his own life or the life of another," Birkett said. "Here we have a person who is described as a fleeing felon. During the course of that flight, he was placing the officers in danger and had already rammed a vehicle."

Preliminary autopsy results released Thursday show Frustaci died of multiple gunshot wounds, a spokeswoman for the coroner's office said.

The DuPage Major Crimes Task Force is investigating both shootings. The results of the Frustaci inquiry will go to Birkett's office for review.