ST. LOUIS • Police on Friday shot and killed a man at Union Boulevard and Ridge Avenue after they say he pointed a handgun at them.

A caller contacted officers with the department’s special operations unit about 12:20 p.m. to report that the man was armed with the TEC-9 gun and standing near the intersection. When detectives arrived, the man ran and officers could see him clutching an object on his right side, said Capt. Michael Sack.

Sack said the man ran across Union, behind a business, then through an alley before running across Union again and taking cover behind a tow truck parked on a gravel lot surrounded by a fence. He ignored officers’ commands to drop the weapon and pointed it at them instead, at which point six officers opened fire on him, Sack said.

The medical examiner pronounced the man, who appeared to be in his 30s, dead at the scene, Sack said.

The entire encounter lasted about two minutes, Sack said.

Officers found the man’s weapon at the scene and are still trying to determine whether he fired it. Sack said the man had been hit multiple times, but the number wasn’t immediately clear because many of his wounds were covered by bulky winter clothing.

Authorities did not give the man’s name, but family at the scene identified him as Damon Cortez Hall, 34.

They said he was mentally disabled and homeless. He sometimes did odd jobs for the owner of the automotive business where he was shot, according to Hall’s aunt, Theresa Johnson, 64, of St. Louis.

She said he feared police and had complained of being harassed by officers in the past.

“I kept telling him to come off the street,” she said. “I can’t believe it ended like this.”

He had a 1-year-old son, Johnson said.

Family members complained they couldn’t get answers about what had happened. Dozens of evidence markers had been set out around the scene. They said his hands had been handcuffed behind his back.

“When I got here, everything was taped off,” said another aunt, Joyce Adail, 54, of St. Louis. “Somebody has got to let us know something.”

EDITOR'S NOTE: A police incident summary identifies the victim as Danond Hall.