Hillsboro police have released the number of shots that were fired during a traffic stop that ended in a fatal shootout last week.

Police say Victor Torres-Elizondo fired one shot from a .22 caliber revolver moments before Officer Will Blood returned six shots at Torres-Elizondo, said Lt. Mike Rouches, a Hillsboro police spokesman. Torres-Elizondo, 30, was struck multiple times in the torso, Rouches said, but authorities have not said exactly where or how many times he was hit.

Torres-Elizondo, who recently lived in Woodburn and Forest Grove, died at Legacy Emanuel Medical Center in Portland, police said.

Dr. Karen Gunson, of the state Medical Examiner's Office, said Torres-Elizondo died of a gunshot wound to the chest. She declined to say how many times Torres-Elizondo was struck by gunfire, citing the ongoing investigation in Washington County.

Rouches said Wednesday that investigators think Torres-Elizondo’s bullet struck an officer’s Taser and a piece of shrapnel then hit her hand.

The gunfire exchange occurred Friday, Oct. 25, at 9:17 p.m., following a traffic stop that occurred 13 minutes earlier, Rouches said. Police initially said the shooting occurred at 9:40 p.m., but corrected that information on Wednesday, Oct. 30.

Until Wednesday, police had released no information on the number of shots fired.

Blood and Officer Tina Latendresse, who was on her third shift as a Hillsboro officer, pulled over a Honda Accord on Southeast 13th Avenue near Maple Street at about 9:04 p.m. The officers were riding in the same patrol car when they spotted the Accord, which had a license plate light out, Rouches said.

Four people were inside the vehicle: Two men and two women. Soon, an officer with a police drug dog arrived at the scene, and the dog indicated that something suspicious might be in the Accord, Rouches said. The dog, Rouches said, did not search inside the vehicle. Police later determined no drugs were inside the car.

During the traffic stop, Blood and Latendresse reportedly ordered the occupants to get out. Latendresse approached the front passenger, who was still inside the vehicle. She reportedly was trying to get the man out of the car.

The passenger door was open, and the man, later identified as Torres-Elizondo, began to get out of the car, Rouches said. Latendresse was standing along the side of the vehicle just behind the open car door.

Torres-Elizondo, Rouches said, pulled out a .22 caliber revolver and fired one shot at Latendresse, who was a few feet away. Rouches said Torres-Elizondo fired in the direction of Latendresse and Blood. Initially, police said Torres-Elizondo was “actively shooting” but on Wednesday said he fired one round.

Latendresse retreated, Rouches said, and fell. Her cover officer, Blood, was behind her and fired back at Torres-Elizondo.

“He got a shot off before Blood fired,” Rouches said.

At 9:17 p.m., an officer said over the police radio that shots were fired and asked for emergency cover.

Three seconds later, “shots fired” was again broadcasted over the radio, Rouches said. Officers were instructed to respond from the north to the scene because officers had their guns pointing south.

An officer radioed that a male suspect was down with gunshot wounds, Rouches said, and requested a Life Flight helicopter. At 9:19 p.m., police radioed that detectives were rendering aid to the man.

At 9:22 p.m., there was a radio transmission that Torres-Elizondo had stopped breathing, Rouches said. An ambulance had responded, and he was taken to Emanuel, where he died.

Detectives with the Washington County Major Crimes Team arrived at about 10:15 p.m. The team, composed of detectives from agencies across the county, is investigating the incident.

Blood and Latendresse were interviewed Tuesday.

Rouches said that authorities think Torres-Elizondo’s bullet struck Latendresse’s duty Taser and damaged the weapon. Her left hand was struck by shrapnel during the incident, and she was taken to the hospital, treated and released. Investigators think the shrapnel came from the round that Torres-Elizondo fired, Rouches said.

The other people who were inside the car at the time of the traffic stop were questioned and released early Saturday, Oct. 26. They reportedly complied with police during the incident and will not be arrested.

-- Rebecca Woolington