Police officers were justified in their fatal shooting of a Giles County man in October, based on a ruling released today by Salem Commonwealth’s Attorney Tom Bowers. the special prosecutor in the case.

Jonathan V. Robertson, 32, of Narrows was killed after authorities said he exchanged gunfire with law enforcement personnel in three different locations on Oct. 26.

Robertson’s clash with law enforcement began when officers attempted to serve him with arrest warrants for robbery, aggravated malicious wounding and use of a firearm in the commission of a felony.

Robertson was a suspect in a robbery and shooting that occurred early the previous day, state police have said. The Giles County Sheriff’s Office responded at 1:56 a.m. Oct. 25 to a report of a shooting on College Street in Narrows.

Police determined that Luke Robbins, 18, of Narrows had been shot in the leg “during an apparent drug deal robbery involving multiple suspects,” according to Bower’s news release.

Robertson, who lived in a trailer on Friendship Avenue, off of Fletchers Mountain Road, was known by local law enforcement to carry handguns, according to Bowers’ report. Police also had information thatRobertson was manufacturing drugs in his home, according to the news release.

Based on that information, officers with the Giles County Sheriff’s Office, Pearisburg Police Department, Virginia State Police and Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries planned to stop and apprehend Robertson in his vehicle, away from his home.

Law enforcement personnel were positioned on each end of Fletchers Mountain Road on Oct. 26 in order to be able to stop Robertson regardless of his direction of travel. Giles County Sheriff’s Lt. Tommy Gautier and state police Special Agent M. L. Carter were in Carter’s unmarked state police Dodge Journey SUV near Robertson’s home and were planning on advising other positioned officers of the direction Robertson traveled when he left the residence, according to the release.

When Gautier and Carter saw Robertson leaving in his pickup truck with another male passenger – later identified as Clifton Clowers – they advised the other units and followed the 1997 Chevrolet pickup truck from a distance, the release stated.

As Gautier and Carter drove around a curve, they encountered Robertson’s pickup truck as Robertson was turning it into a driveway – thereby blocking the road (Clowers told investigators Robertson was turning the truck around because he forgot his wallet), according to the release. Gautier and Carter decided to arrest Robertson at that location, and Carter activated his blue lights on the top portion of his windshield, according to the release.

The officers, who Bowers said were dressed in plain clothes but displaying badges, exited the unmarked SUV. Gautier shouted repeatedly, “Sheriff’s Office, get your hands up,” the release stated.

Gautier then observed Robertson, who was still in his truck, raise a gun, and Gautier began shooting. Carter also saw Robertson pointing a firearm at them. Carter began firing, as Robertson fired repeated rounds, according to the release.

Gautier took cover behind a fence post, and bullet strikes were later located on that fence and fence post. Bullets also struck a home and vehicle in the 300 block of Fletchers Mountain Road. Gautier had been standing in front of the home and vehicle, Bowers wrote in the release.

Robertson was able to drive past the officers, who continued firing “several rounds as Robertson sped by” and began to pursue Robertson with lights and the siren activated, the release stated.

During the shooting, Robertson’s passenger, Clowers, had jumped out of the passenger door. Clowers was found by other officers, and when interviewed, he said that he and Robertson were going to Burger King when Robertson realized he did not have his wallet.

Clowers told police that he was certain Robertson fired from inside the pickup truck, according to the release.

As he entered Virginia 100 after fleeing from Fletchers Mountain Road, Robertson’s tires were punctured by a spike strip put down by Sheriff Morgan Millirons.

Millirons said he heard Robertson shoot three times after he ran over the spike strip and drove past Deputy S. T. Hutchison and Sergeant G. C. Tickle. Hutchison and Tickle both said they saw Robertson raise a gun over the steering wheel and point it in their direction. Both officers fired their weapons at Robertson, who was able to drive around them, according to the release.

As Robertson’s tires were shredding, he tried to round a curve but struck a highway sign at the intersection of Narrows Road and Thomas Drive.

Several officers approached Robertson’s pickup truck and ordered him to show his hands and exit his vehicle. Those officers said they saw Robertson point a gun at them, prompting them to fire their weapons. Several officers said Robertson fired his weapon. One police vehicle’s dashcam shows Robertson raising a dark object over the steering wheel before the shooting began, according to the release.

After approaching Robertson’s truck, officers reported seeing a gun in one of Robertson’s hands and a loaded magazine in his other. Empty .45 caliber magazines, shell casing and 187 rounds of .45 caliber ammunition were also located in the vehicle, the release stated.

Giles County EMS personnel were on scene “almost immediately” and rendered emergency aid to Robertson, according to the release. He was transported to Carilion Giles Community Hospital and then flown to Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

Less than 10 minutes elapsed from the time the first shots were fired on Fletchers Mountain Road until Robertson was approached by officers on Thomas Drive, Bowers wrote in the release.

An autopsy showed that Robertson had 1.5 mg/L of Methadone in his system. The report stated his cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds to the head and neck, including the fatal wound to the left side of his face, which severed the left vertebral artery, according to the release.

A ballistics analysis confirmed that the Kimber Gold Combat RL II, the .45 caliber semiautomatic pistol possessed and fired by Robertson on Oct. 26 was the same weapon used in the shooting of Lucas Robbins on Oct. 25.

Bowers was named special prosecutor after Giles County Commonwealth’s Attorney Bobby Lilly disqualified himself. Bowers said the use of deadly force was “justified and appropriate” and that he found no basis for any criminal charges involving the actions of any of the officers involved in the pursuit that day.

“The officers at each of the three crime scenes and at each stage of this pursuit and apprehension possessed a reasonable belief that they or their fellow officers were in imminent danger of death or serious injury based on the shots fired and firearm brandished by Jonathan Robertson,” Bowers wrote in the release. “Jonathan Robertson initiated the violent contact and raised the level to one of deadly force.”