Christopher L. Robinson, 37, is seen in a photo from the Baltimore City Police Department. Anne Arundel County police say that Robinson killed Andrew Hoffman and his girlfriend Marie Leanne Edith Hartman Saturday before turning the gun on himself.. (Baltimore City Police Department)

Anne Arundel County police say Baltimore Police Officer Christopher Lee Robinson, 37, shot his ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend before turning the gun on himself Sunday.

Robinson was having a hard time moving on from the end of the relationship, especially upon learning a few weeks ago that Hartman had begun dating Hoffman, and he continued to text her and send her flowers, said Wayne Robinson, Christopher's brother and another member of the Baltimore Fire Department.

Advertisement

"He was having problems with this girl," Wayne Robinson, who was friends with Hoffman, recalled. "He asked me two weeks ago for advice. I told him to leave her be because she didn't want anything to do with him anymore."

Wayne Robinson said he was still in shock, saying no one had any indication that Christopher would become violent.

Advertisement

"I don't what happened last night, but the person that pulled that trigger wasn't the Chris that I know," Wayne Robinson said Sunday. "They told me this morning and I didn't believe it. I just couldn't wrap my head around the fact that it happened. I lost a brother and I lost a friend. It's just crazy."

Wayne Robinson said his brother grew up in the Highlandtown neighborhood of Baltimore and joined the U.S. Marines after high school. Christopher Robinson became a sergeant in the Marines and was deployed in Okinawa, Japan, his brother said.

Robinson graduated from the Baltimore Police Department academy in mid-2010 and was assigned to the Eastern District as a patrol officer, his brother said. The Baltimore Police Department declined to provide details about Robinson's employment on Sunday.

"I understand that he's the bad guy in this situation but he wasn't a bad guy," Wayne Robinson said. "It's just unfortunate and very senseless."

On Sunday, houses in the Abingdon townhome community where Robinson lived were festooned with Halloween decorations, but his two-story dwelling on Glen View Terrace had only two accents -- a red banner with the Marine Corps emblem in an upstairs window, and a small wooden cutout of a Marine holding a small American flag next to the front steps.

A neighbor remembered Robinson as friendly and helpful.

"He was just a helpful Marine," said Jenn Chambers, who lives a few doors down and said Robinson helped her fix a broken outdoor faucet. "He'd help you if something was broken; he was a Marine's Marine."

Baltimore Sun Media Group reporter David Anderson contributed to this story.