Tulsa police fatally shot a man on the front porch of his house early Thursday after the man raised a small-caliber handgun in their direction, authorities said.

William David Cagle, 31, was pronounced dead about 12:15 a.m. outside his residence, 1505 N. Vandalia Ave., from a shotgun blast to his body, said Capt. G.B. Poindexter.

"We had no other choice but to shoot," Poindexter said.

Police said Cagle's behavior before the shooting and evidence at the scene indicated that it was his intention for police to shoot him.

Investigators found up to 70 spent .22 caliber casings scattered around the house, and people living in the area reported hearing shots being fired around 11:30 p.m. Wednesday, Officer Lucky Lamons said.

Cagle also apparently left behind a suicide note and called a nephew who lived nearby and said he was "getting ready to have a shootout with police," Lamons said.

When police arrived, Cagle stepped out onto his porch. Police, noticing that he carried a gun, ordered him to drop it several times, authorities said.

"He refused and said they were going to have to shoot him," Lamons said.

Cagle allegedly pointed the pistol in the direction of the police and Officer Ron Kawano fired a shotgun one time from a distance of 43 feet, he said.

Kawano was placed on paid administrative leave and the investigation was forwarded to the Tulsa County District Attorney's Office, which will determine whether the shooting was justified.

Cagle's sister, 36-year-old Lisa Stout, said the officer's actions were "excessive."

She said her brother was drunk and that he did not want to hurt anybody. She said she did not know why he would want to create a confrontation.

"He never talked to me about his problems."

Cagle never married, but he'd had a longtime girlfriend who had a son that was "practically his own," she said.

People at his place of employment described Cagle as a hard worker who showed no signs of having life troubles.

"I didn't see it coming," said Bryan Smith of Bryan Smith & Associates, a process server business. Cagle had worked with the firm for more than a year and was a top employee, he said.

"He made one of his best checks last week," Smith said. "He sent me a Christmas card by e-mail yesterday, and he said he was going to do some Christmas shopping."

Tom Droege, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8361 or via e-mail at tom.droege@tulsaworld.com .