Syracuse, N.Y. -- The Onondaga man who was shot and killed during a confrontation with deputies Tuesday night had worked as a corrections officer at the Jamesville Correctional Facility.

Michael Sica, 57, left the corrections department in 1999, Onondaga County Sheriff Kevin Walsh said.

At a news conference Wednesday in Syracuse Walsh said deputies shot Sica after he fired a shot and twice pointed a gun at deputies despite being told to drop the weapon.

Deputies were called to 5006 Aitchison Road just before 6 p.m. Tuesday to investigate a possible domestic violence call. Adolph and Marilyn Sica, both in their 80s, told 911 dispatchers they were concerned that their son Michael had made suicidal threats and had threatened to shoot the police.

Michael Sica told his parents he was going to a storage facility to get his rifles and ammunition, Walsh said. Adolph and Marilyn Sica left their home on Aitchison Road and went to the Howlett Hill Fire Station.

Deputies arrived at the home and searched the area.

A deputy saw a vehicle matching the description of Sica's car pull into the driveway. The deputy approached the vehicle and ordered the driver out. He noticed ammunition in the car and a rifle on the passenger seat.

"What he didn't see immediately was that the driver had a pistol which he pulled and stuck in the deputy's face," Walsh said.

The deputy retreated and called for backup. The backup arrived in time to see Sica running into a garage at the house.

"There was a discussion about dropping the rifle. There was a discussion about ... he was going to have a shootout," Walsh said.

Deputies ordered Sica to drop the rifle a number of times, Walsh said. Sica eventually tossed the rifle out the garage door. Then deputies heard a shot and moved toward the garage thinking Sica might have killed himself, Walsh said.

"When they pushed the door open he was sitting inside," he said. He raised his pistol and the deputies responded by shooting him."

Authorities shot a man Tuesday night on Aitchison Road in the town of Onondaga after he pointed a gun at a deputy's face.

A Marcellus ambulance responded to the scene, but Sica was pronounced dead.

Sica is separated from his wife -- who lives in another state -- and has one adult child, Walsh said. Sica was living with his parents at the time of his death.

The names of the deputies who shot at Sica will be released on Friday, Walsh said. Both deputies are now on paid administrative leave and have been offered counseling.

Walsh said Sica legally owned the pistol he had during Tuesday's incident. Investigators also believe Sica legally owned two rifles found at the scene, but are continuing to investigate.

Onondaga County District Attorney Bill Fitzpatrick said the case will go before a grand jury soon.

Both Walsh and Fitzpatrick declined to speculate about a motive though Walsh did say it appeared that the deputies had acted appropriately.

"They did what they were trained to do given the circumstances," he said.