GREENPORT—Ronald Wood died from ingesting a fatal amount of cocaine, according to the findings of a State Police investigation which is now complete.

Mr. Wood became unresponsive during a confrontation with police October 29.

At 9:10 p.m., Greenport Police Officer Steven Rose was dispatched by Columbia County 911 to the area of Joslen Boulevard and Green Acres Road for a report of a suspicious subject walking in the roadway, obstructing traffic.

Officer Rose encountered Mr. Wood, 54, of Greenport in the roadway acting highly agitated. When the officer approached Mr. Wood, he reportedly became irrational and combative. The officer called for assistance and Troopers Jason Manchuck and Michael Singleton from the Livingston barracks responded. While attempting to restrain Mr. Wood, he suddenly became unresponsive and police immediately initiated CPR. The Greenport Rescue Squad took Mr. Wood to Columbia Memorial Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 10:10 p.m.

Following an autopsy by Dr. Jeffery Hubbard at St. Peters Hospital in Albany, October 30, the cause of death was undetermined pending toxicology results.

Dr. Hubbard and Columbia County Coroner Angelo Nero have now determined that Mr. Wood’s death was due to cocaine toxicity with a significant contributing factor being cardiomyopathy.

“While the reality of Mr. Ronald Wood’s death is undeniably tragic, investigation and autopsy results have revealed that there is no evidence to suggest that it was in any way connected to the actions of the police officers that responded to the scene. In fact, the first impulse of the responding members of the Town of Greenport Police Department and the New York State Police, was to help Mr. Wood, who appeared to be having some kind of medical emergency,” Troop K Major Robin H. Benziger said in a November 19 press release.

Stuyvesant

Scott A. Kowalski, 40, of Valatie was charged with third degree grand larceny and third degree burglary, both class D felonies, by State Police at Livingston, November 18.

State Police say Mr. Kowalski allegedly entered onto two separate properties in Stuyvesant between October 1 and November 6 and stole several thousand pounds of miscellaneous scrap metal items. An investigation also revealed that Mr. Kowalski entered into a commercial construction building on private property in Ghent and stole power tools from inside.

Mr. Kowalski was arraigned in Greenport Court before Justice Robert Brenzel and was committed to the Columbia County Jail without bail. Mr. Kowalski is due to return to Greenport Court November 22 at 10 a.m.

In an unrelated incident, Mr. Kowalski was charged with second degree obstructing governmental administration by State Police from Kinderhook, October 31.

The arrest was in connection with a September 9 incident at his residence. Mr. Kowalski was issued a ticket to appear in Kinderhook Court at a later date.

*Danelle A. Rossi-Wolfe, 31, of Hudson was charged with third degree assault, second degree menacing, fourth degree criminal possession of a weapon and endangering the welfare of a child, all class A misdemeanors, by Deputies Louis Bray and Andrew Broockmann, October 24 at 8:03 p.m.

Ms. Rossi-Wolfe is accused of being involved in a physical altercation and causing injury with a knife at a private residence in Stuyvesant.

One of three victims was under the age of 16. She was arraigned in Stuyvesant Court and sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $5,000 bail. She is scheduled to reappear in court December 4.

Hudson

Hudson Police report the arrest of Victor Wack, 41, of no permanent address on charges of third, fifth and seventh criminal possession of a controlled substance and possession of a hypodermic instrument, as well as several vehicle and traffic violations, November 17 at 6:21 p.m.

While on routine patrol, Officer Kevin Sweet saw Mr. Wack go through a red light at the intersection of South Seventh and Warren streets.

As a result of the traffic stop and subsequent investigation, Mr. Wack was found to be in possession of a hypodermic needle, 108 individual packets of heroin, 3 amitriptyline pills, and 2 alprazolam pills. All 5 pills are controlled substances. Mr. Wack was arraigned before City Court Judge Mark Portin and sent to the Columbia County Jail without bail. He is to return to court November 21.

*Matthew Williams, 23, of Hudson was charged on a warrant for endangering welfare of child by Hudson Police Officer David Miller, Jr., October 14 at 1:06 p.m.

Mr. Williams allegedly exposed a child to an indecent act June 27.

He was arraigned in Hudson City Court before Judge John Connors and released on his own recognizance pending a return court appearance.

Greenport

Roy L. Talley, 33, of Greenport was charged with second degree menacing, fourth degree criminal possession of a weapon and fourth degree criminal mischief, all class A misdemeanors, by Sheriff’s Office Sergeant Brian Molinski and Deputy Jason Garvey, October 17 at 3:53 a.m.

Mr. Talley is accused of threatening a female with a baseball bat inside a private residence and then destroying property inside the home. He was arraigned in Greenport Court and sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $1,500 bail. He is scheduled to reappear in court at a later date.

*State Police from Livingston charged Thomas C. Confer, 30, of Hudson, Timothy W. Snyder, 26, of Hudson and Robert A. Doty, 25, of Stockport for trespass, a violation, November 3 at 2:45 p.m.

Troopers were called to a local business to investigate allegations that the three subjects were allegedly operating ATVs and dirt bikes on the property without permission.

The three suspects were issued tickets and ordered to appear in Greenport Court at a later date.

*Jordana M. Delair, 20, of Hudson was charged with third degree assault, a class A misdemeanor, by State Police, November 6 at 5:45 p.m.

Ms. Delair was charged following an investigation into a reported physical altercation. She was issued a ticket ordering her to appear in Greenport Court at a later date.

Gallatin

Joshua C. Parsons, 32, of Gallatin was charged with endangering the welfare of a child and fourth degree criminal mischief, both class A misdemeanors, by Deputy Peter Merante, October 9 at 11:23 p.m.

Mr. Parsons allegedly had an altercation with a female at a private residence in Gallatin and smashed a phone to prevent the victim from calling 911. He was arraigned in Ancram Court and sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $500 bail.

New Lebanon

Evan D. Pope, 26, of New Lebanon was charged with fourth degree criminal mischief, a class A misdemeanor, by State Police from New Lebanon, October 27 at 2:15 a.m. Mr. Pope is accused of damaging personal property of another during a dispute at a Gale Hill Road residence. He was arraigned in New Lebanon Court and released on his own recognizance. He is scheduled to reappear November 21.

Claverack

Jessica M. Wendover, 37, of Claverack was charged with first degree criminal contempt, a class E felony, second degree criminal trespass, a class A misdemeanor and second degree harassment, a violation, by State Police from Livingston, October 28 at 10:25 p.m.

Troopers were called to investigation a dispute.

They interviewed the complainant who told them that Ms. Wendover entered her home and struck her. Police say Ms. Wendover allegedly entered the complainant’s home unlawfully attempting to locate a family member, who is the protected party in a full-stay-away order of protection.

Ms. Wendover was arraigned in Claverack Court, where she was sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $5,000 cash bail.

Hillsdale

Following a Sheriff’s Office investigation, Robert W. Beebe, III, 26, of Hillsdale, was charged with fourth degree grand larceny, a class E felony; third degree forgery and third degree possession of a forged instrument, both class A misdemeanors, by Deputy Kelly Briscoe, October 28 at 8:35 p.m.

Mr. Beebe is accused of stealing a check from a male in Hillsdale and forging his name to the check to pay for more than $1,300 worth of merchandise at Mario’s True Value Home Center in Valatie. Mr. Beebe was arraigned in Hillsdale Court and released on his own recognizance to reappear at a later date.

Chatham

Fred A. Starke, 38, of Chatham was charged with second degree unlawful imprisonment and fourth degree criminal mischief, both class A misdemeanors, and second degree harassment, a violation, by Deputies Joshua Oakes and Christopher Link, October 29 at 10:10 p.m.

Mr. Starke is accused of getting into an altercation with a female in a private residence in Chatham, preventing her from leaving and from calling for help. He was arraigned in Chatham Town Court and sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $1,500 bail. He is scheduled to return to court at a later date.

Ancramdale

State Police from Livingston charged Anthony L. Butler, 19, of Ancramdale and Katelyn R. Hotaling, 20, of Hillsdale for trespassing on posted property just off of County Route 3 for the purpose of hunting, November 13. A 16-year-old from Connecticut, whose name was not released by police, was also charged in the incident. All three were issued appearance tickets and turned over to a state Department of Environmental Conservation officer for the additional charges. They are due to return to Ancram Court December 4.

Fires

The Greenport Fire Department was called to a fire in the kitchen at Applebee’s restaurant on Fairview Avenue, November 14 at 10:19 a.m. Five employees were preparing to open the business when they saw flames under a deep fryer. The cook attempted to put it out with flour, the manager called 911 and evacuated the building, according to a press release from Greenport Fire Chief Gary Mazzacano.

The fire chief and Police Chief Kevin Marchetto arrived at 10:24 a.m. and put the fire out using fire extinguishers. Damage was contained to the deep fryer. The restaurant was closed by Town Building Inspector John Florio until cleanup and electrical and health department inspections were completed. Firefighters were back in service at 11:19 a.m.

*Greenport firefighters from all three companies were called to a grease fire at a 25 Columbia Turnpike residence, November 13 at 10:22 p.m. The occupant placed saucepan of oil on the stove to cook when a phone rang in other room. While talking on phone, the occupant noticed a fire on the stove, attempted to put it out and called 911. Greenport firefighters arrived to discover the fire had travelled into the upper wooden kitchen cabinets. They quickly put out the fire with a hoseline. Damage was contained to area around the stove and upper cabinets. No one was injured. Firefighters were back in service at 11:36 p.m

Drugs/alcohol

The following face drug- and/or alcohol-related charges:

*Michael L. Mastro, Jr., 27, of Hudson was charged with failure to keep to right and driving while ability impaired by drugs by Hudson Police Officer Mishanda Franklin Cox at 83 Green Street, October 9 at 3:41 a.m. Mr. Mastro was charged following a property damage accident during which he allegedly failed to keep right and struck two parked vehicles. He was released with traffic tickets to appear in Hudson City Court.

*Cory A. Velazquez, 25, of Hudson was charged with seventh degree criminal possession of a controlled substance, a class A misdemeanor, by Deputies Thomas Bagnall and Todd Hyson, October 9 at 4:42 p.m. Mr. Velazquez allegedly possessed of a quantity of heroin. He was arraigned in Kinderhook Town Court and sent to the Columbia County Jail in lieu of $1,000 bail. He was scheduled to return to court at a later date.