UPDATE: GBI Investigating Deputy Involved Fatal Shooting in Taylor County

BUTLER, Georgia (41NBC/WMGT) –The Taylor County Coroner’s office has released the name of the man who was shot and killed by sheriff deputies on Thursday.

57-year-old John Wayne Howell allegedly attacked a Taylor deputy and that’s when two officers fired at him.

Neighbors say they knew Howell and he helped them around their house.

One neighbor said Howell had a history of mental illness and something caused him to snap.

—

A Taylor County man was shot and killed Thursday afternoon by two Taylor County deputies, according to GBI Special Agent Wayne Smith.

The incident happened near 426 Old Wire Road in the north end of the county before 5pm.

Wayne said residents called 911 to report a man, who they knew, was walking around the neighborhood holding a machete and a pipe, and acting erratic. The man didn’t recognize any of the people he was talking to, and residents told investigators he was threatening them.

When deputies arrived on the scene, Smith tells 41NBC one tried to use a taser to calm the man. He was continuing to act aggressive toward the three deputies on the scene. Smith says that’s when two fired shots at the man, killing him in a front yard on Old Wire Road.

Investigators are in the process of finishing up interviews at this point. Smith adds his office is investigating if the shooting was justified. He did not know if the deputies involved were put on administrative leave. Taylor County Sheriff Jeff Watson could not be reached for comment Thursday night.

Smith said his office is also investigating the victim’s mental state before he was shot.

“That’s another thing we’re going to be looking into… his medical history, and whether or not he had any problems whether they be mental or physical that they cause him to, you know, sort of have an altered personality… we just haven’t gotten that far with it yet,” said Smith.

The man was in his 50’s. His identity has not been released yet. His body will be sent in for an autopsy on Friday.

Stay with 41NBC for updates on this case.