PONTIAC>> The Oakland County Sheriff’s deputy who was behind the wheel of a patrol SUV involved in a crash that killed two Pontiac men has been charged with two counts of moving violation causing death.

Deputy Dennis Alvis, 50, was arraigned Friday in 50th District Court in Pontiac. He was released on an unspecified bond and will next appear in court at 9 a.m. Jan. 16.

A conviction for moving violation causing death is punishable by up to one year in jail and a fine of up to $2,000.

Alvis, who has been off work since the Nov. 1 crash due to injuries sustained in the collision, is suspended pending the outcome of his criminal case.

The crash killed Joseph Markeese Lawton-Hooks, 25, and 24-year-old James Leon Greer.

Families of both men, who were best friends, have filed lawsuits against the Sheriff’s Office and Oakland County.

Renee Greer, the personal representative of the estate of James Greer, filed suit Wednesday in Oakland County Circuit Court. She seeks an amount in excess of $25,000, plus court costs and attorney fees.

James Greer died Nov. 19 of injuries sustained in the crash, which occurred in the area of Johnson Street and Cesar Chavez Avenue in Pontiac.

“Obviously, they’re traumatized,” attorney Thomas Stroble said of the Greer family, which he represents.

“They’ve lost their only child. What’s weighing on their minds even more is the fact that there are no answers. We’re more than two months out from the date of the incident and no closer to getting information,” Stroble said Thursday, the day before charges were announced.

The Sheriff’s Office had declined to release information, such as the police report and a video of the collision, citing an ongoing investigation, Stroble said.

Oakland County Undersheriff Mike McCabe said the lawsuit was not unexpected.

“The Sheriff’s Office again expresses its sincere condolences to the families of Mr. Greer and Mr. Hooks,” McCabe said Friday.

Greer was a passenger in a 2008 Chrysler Sebring driven by Lawton-Hooks, who was also killed in the crash.

Angela Lawton filed a similar suit Dec. 26 on behalf of Lawton-Hooks.

At the time of the collision, a deputy “was operating (an) emergency vehicle at a high rate of speed and without regard for the safety of others while traveling northbound on Cesar Chavez,” Greer’s lawsuit states.

Lawton-Hooks was eastbound on Johnson and was attempting to turn left onto Cesar Chavez around 8:30 p.m. Nov. 1. According to Greer’s lawsuit, the light was green and Lawton-Hooks had the right of way.

The patrol vehicle “wrongfully entered the Johnson Street intersection by running through the red traffic light, at a constant high rate of speed and without slowing, stopping or yielding to Lawton-Hooks’ vehicle, which had the right of way in the intersection,” Greer’s lawsuit states.

“Without due warning, the defendants’ emergency vehicle struck Lawton-Hooks’ vehicle at a high rate of speed and with extreme force which caused James Leon Greer to suffer traumatic brain injuries and fractures to his pelvis, skull and lumbar and sacral vertebrae that resulted in his untimely death on November 19, 2013.”

Greer’s lawsuit accuses the Sheriff’s Office of breaching several duties and “willfully and recklessly” driving through a red light at the intersection “at a constant high rate of speed,” causing a violent collision.

The Lawton-Hooks lawsuit also seeks an amount in excess of $25,000. That suit, filed by attorney Ven Johnson, indicates that both victims were wearing seat belts at the time of impact, and Lawton-Hooks’ airbag deployed.

Lawton-Hooks suffered multiple skull and sinus fractures and a subarachnoid hemorrhage. He died Nov. 5.

Johnson reiterated Stroble’s claims that information has been hard to come by.

“We have very little information other than we know that (the deputy) ran the red light and my client had the green light, and his best friend was in the front seat,” Johnson said.

“(The deputy) went so fast through the red light that the impact with my client’s car obviously killed both my client and his passenger. (The deputy) was clearly traveling at a high rate of speed.”

The Sheriff’s Office said previously that the patrol vehicle involved in the crash – a 2011 Chevrolet Tahoe – had its lights and siren activated.

“We don’t know if the officer had his lights and sirens on,” Johnson said.

“We have not been given the in-dash camera, nor have they produced any part of a police report.”

If the lights and siren were activated, that would not show a lack of negligence, Johnson said.

“Under Michigan law, even if the lights and sirens were on, they can’t just run a red light. They have to exercise due care and caution,” he said.

“Our client, his vehicle was allegedly shortly behind another vehicle that had just cleared the intersection that the officer should have seen obviously.”

Johnson said Lawton-Hooks’ death has been “horrible” for the family.

“My client Joseph was a full-time worker at Kroger, where he had been working for a number of years,” Johnson said.

“He had been going to school. He was a really nice young man. He was not a troublemaker. He was simply taking his best friend home.”