MIAMI GARDENS (CBSMiami) --One man is dead after a police-involved shooting in Miami Gardens, detectives said Monday night.

Police said the man killed was the suspect in the murder of his stepfather early Monday morning at a home along NW 208 St. near 24 Ave. north of Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens.

When detectives confronted the man, he started shooting at them, according to police.

"The suspect opened fire upon our detectives. And in fearing for their lives, they returned fire, ultimately striking the suspect," Miami Gardens Det. Michael Wright said.

Investigators said the man died on scene.

The family of the dead suspect showed up asking questions of police.

Relatives identified the suspect as 23-year-old Robert Desir.

"I would describe him as a very good kid. Ever since I know him for 11 years, always a quiet kid. One word, never talk," Ernert Sinord said.

Sinord's wife is Desir's cousin.

Sinord said Desir's mother is staying with family.

The identified his stepfather as Eugene Pla.

Property records confirm Eugene Pla lived at the address where the shooting took place.

"It's very hard. This is very hard to see what happened. It was shocked. We're shocked," Sinord said. "We have to deal about it and move on. Life goes on and things happen."

Miami-Dade Police Benevolent Association President John Rivera said violence has become the norm in Miami Gardens.

"Sometimes we see two and three shootings a day here," Rivera said.

With crime comes the constant threat for officers tasked with keeping the city safe.

"Paradise under fire. We've seen it so many times before. We see it again. It's become almost a daily occurrence in this community," Rivera said. "These are the pressures, these are the dangers that police officers face each and every day."

The detectives involved in the shooting spoke with union attorneys here on scene.

The PBA President called this a justified shooting, but the officers will take a few day administrative leave while the case is investigated.