NEWARK — The shooting death of an alleged drug dealer in Newark today by two sheriff's detectives touched off a skirmish and led to allegations of police brutality as residents, claiming the killing was unjustified, pelted officers with rocks and smashed in a police car window.

Jose Quinonez, 22, was shot by two Essex County sheriff’s officers near his family’s North 9th Street home at around 12:30 p.m. after he allegedly pointed a loaded weapon at the detectives, Acting Essex County Prosecutor Carolyn Murray said.

The 22-year-old Newark man was the target of a drug investigation, Murray said, and tried to flee the from the veteran detectives seconds before he was shot. Police recovered drugs and a loaded handgun when they searched his body, the prosecutor said.

Anthony Ambrose, the Essex County prosecutor’s chief of detectives, said each officer fired one round. Quinonez was pronounced dead at the scene.

Several eyewitnesses, however, claimed Quinonez was unarmed and walking to his mother’s house when an unmarked police car drove up behind him. Naeema Adams, who described herself as a longtime friend of Quinonez, said an officer got out of the vehicle with his weapon drawn, prompting Quinonez to flee.

The car struck Quinonez from behind, according to Adams, who said Quinonez fell to the ground. As the officers approached, she said, he raised his hand to protect himself but the officers shot him in at point-blank range.

“He didn’t have no gun on him. He didn’t have no drugs, no nothing. He was going home,” Adams said. “He ran because the cop got out with his gun in his hand already.”

Jose Quinonez, 22, was shot and killed by Essex County Sheriff's officers today after he allegedly pointed a loaded weapon at them. Friends and neighbors says he was struck by a police vehicle and then shot on the ground.

The conflicting accounts of Quinonez’s death made little difference to his mother, who was seen sobbing as police began cleaning up the crime scene. As she was being escorted home, she collapsed when she realized her son’s blood was staining the sidewalk.

“This is where he fell,” the woman screamed.

In a statement late yesterday afternoon, Katherine Carter, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office, said investigators do not believe Quinonez was struck by the unmarked police car. Three law enforcement sources also told The Star-Ledger the detectives, members of the narcotics unit, watched Quinonez conduct a drug transaction shortly before the shooting.

Quinonez allegedly drew a weapon and charged the officers before he was shot, according to two of the sources, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.

A fracas erupted shortly after the shooting, neighbors said, with several residents throwing rocks at police cruisers. One man was arrested for smashing in a police car window, Essex County Sheriff Armando Fontoura said.

An hour after the killing, a angry group of Quinonez’s friends and neighbors began shouting at Fontoura and Ambrose as they conducted a press briefing at the scene.

“Why did you have to hit him with a car?” one man shouted. “Why did you have to shoot him in the back?”

Bishop Jethro James of Paradise Baptist Church in Newark, who was at the scene to help calm the crowd, said Quinonez was shot twice in the chest, not in the back.

James told Quinonez’s friends he understands their frustration but warned them against spreading misinformation.

“Rumors cause riots ... let’s wait til the investigation is over,” he said. “If there’s any improprieties with the Sheriff’s Office, I have no problem calling them out.”

Fontoura said he believes the detectives, neither of whom has been identified, acted appropriately. One of the officers, he said, has worked for the sheriff’s department for 16 years, the other for six.

“These are experienced, seasoned officers who are good, good guys,” Fontoura said. “The last thing they want to do is take anybody’s life. They’re very traumatized. They’re not out here trying to take a life. If they take a life, they’re impacted tremendously. We don’t leave in the morning and start our work shifts looking to take somebody’s life.”

Jamar Smith, another friend of Quinonez, said the 22-year-old recently moved out of the city’s South Ward to get away from that neighborhood’s violent drug culture, and the two were planning to spend the day filling out job applications.

“They just trying to make it seem like he’s a straight up and down criminal, and that’s not the case at all,” Smith said.

Quinonez, who went by the street name “Menace,” has been arrested on drug charges three times since 2010, court records show.

This is not the first time sheriff’s tactics have been called into question.

In 2010, a sheriff’s officer shot and killed an unarmed Atlanta businessman after he allegedly tried to solicit sex from an undercover officer in Newark’s Branch Brook Park. The man’s family sued the department.

A year earlier, family of another man, Amar McLean, filed a wrongful death suit against the department, claiming the 23-year-old was unarmed and handcuffed when he was shot and killed by a sheriff's officer in Newark.



Editor's Note: This story was updated around 9 p.m. to reflect new information.

RELATED COVERAGE:

• Sheriff's officers who shoot, kill alleged armed man in Newark are attacked by residents