Advertisement Authorities release new Ames chase video, information Share Copy Link Copy

Authorities held a news conference Thursday morning to discuss Monday's chase and shooting that ended on the Iowa State University campus.Watch video of the chaseIowa DCI Special Agent in Charge Michael Motsinger said the investigation of the case has been completed.AUTHORITIES: "SHOOTING JUSTIFIED"Story County Attorney Stephen Holmes has decided Officer Adam McPherson was justified in his shooting of Tyler Comstock."It is my conclusion that officer McPherson acted reasonably under very difficult circumstances and McPherson's use of deadly force was justified," said Holmes.Holmes report states "In watching the videos I can't help but express my concern that it was only by sheer luck that no one else was seriously injured or killed by Mr. Comstock."Holmes said "Comstock's actions did not allow any amount of time for the officers to devise or employ other 'means' to mitigate or defuse the situation ahead of the shooting..."Authorities said video from police car cameras clearly shows Comstock's disregard to citizens as the chase continued.COMSTOCK FAMILY'S STATEMENT:Tyler Comstock's family released a statement Thursday afternoon following the news conference:"The James Comstock family is still trying to put all the pieces & information together. We are all deeply sadden by the loss of Tyler. He was loved by many. We are all heartbroken over the way it ended and just wish there could of been a different way. So many unanswered questions, but this family doesn't feel as if it was justified. Thank you. Monica Comstock."The Ames Tribune reports that a memorial service for Tyler will be held at 10:30 a.m Friday, at the Bethlehem Lutheran Church in Slater.NEW VIDEO:Watch the video.Videos from inside McPherson's car and another officer's car during the chase and shooting were played during the news conference.They show during the chase Comstock backing up and hitting a police officer's car, a trailer flying off the truck, speeding down Ames streets, the truck racing past motorists and pedestrians and eventually the conclusion of the chase on the ISU campus. The gunshots can be heard in both videos.Authorities said there was no directive from dispatch to call off the pursuit."The officers back off when it was suggested by the supervisor but continue with lights and siren as a warning to other bystanders. The officers attempted numerous times to stop the suspect. The suspect had every opportunity to stop the truck and comply with the officer's lawful commands. He chose not to. At the end of the pursuit, the officers were out of options, with two disabled squad cars and a suspect still attempting to harm the officers and posing a real and deadly risk to everyone in that area Officer McPherson fired into the truck to stop the threat and stopped firing once it appeared the threat had been reduced," said Cmdr. Geoff Huff of the Ames Police Department.McPherson remains on paid administrative leave. Authorities said there is no timeline yet on when he will return to duty.COMSTOCK SHOT TWICE:State investigators said Wednesday that autopsy results show a man who lead police on a chase in Ames that ended on the Iowa State campus died from a gunshot wound to the head and chest.Police said the driver of the truck, Tyler Comstock, 19, of Boone, was pronounced dead at a hospital a short time after the shooting.The officer who fired the shots at the truck and driver was identified as Adam McPherson who is an 8-year veteran of the department.FAMILY REACTION:Family members told KCCI on Wednesday that Comstock shouldn't have died. They said Comstock had anger problems and would have returned the truck if officers had stopped pursuing him.They said the officer will have to live with his decision to shoot."He has to live with that for the rest of his life of guilt of killing another person's family member, which we truly loved," said Blake Jensen, Comstock's cousin."He had no right to kill him or shoot him. If he would have just listened to the dispatcher we would still have him (alive). I know he was just going his job, but if he would have just listened this wouldn't even have happened," said LaShawn Jensen, Comstock's cousin.James Comstock told The Des Moines Register he's outraged police shot and killed his son, 19-year-old Tyler Comstock.Gary Shepley, Tyler Comstock's step-grandfather, questioned why police didn't back away from the truck as suggested by an officer during the chase. Comstock's family says the teenager was not armed.THE CHASE:Recordings of police radio traffic provide more detail about what was happening in the minutes before Comstock was shot and killed.Police officers following the pickup truck onto campus were concerned about pedestrians in the area as Comstock drove the wrong-way onto a campus road."We know the suspect so we can probably back it off," said an officer.As more crews reached ISU's central campus area, the chase ended near the Campanile."We've got shots fired, he's trying ramming us again, shots fired," reported an officer at the scene.A short time later crews reported back to police dispatch that one person was unresponsive in the vehicle. Rescue crews were called to the scene."They (officers) felt threatened. We had police cars that were rammed by the suspect. We made a number of attempts to stop the suspect that were unsuccessful and I think there was a fear that other people were, you know, in danger at that point," said Ames Police spokesman Cmdr. Geoff Huff said.Comstock was pronounced dead a short time later at the hospital.Police said the truck Comstock was driving was reported stolen Spring-Green Lawn Care in Boone, where his dad worked. Spring-Green workers said the father and son argued over money for a pack of cigarettes before Comstock took off in the truck.Comstock was living at the a homeless shelter. People at the shelter told KCCI that Comstock was working with his dad on the day of the chase and shooting."I seen him the night before. The night before he was calm," said Gerald Elliott, manager of the All for Jesus Homeless Shelter. "We'd all seen him, you know, just before he left we had all seen him and knowing he was just going to work with his dad. You know you don't expect something like that."The case remains under investigation by Ames police, ISU police and the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation.