An Albertville home was burned after police responded to a domestic dispute.

The house was completely destroyed after a fire consumed the building.

Higdon, as pictured in his 2012 mug shot.

ALBERTVILLE, AL (WAFF) - Police responded to a domestic dispute in the Northridge Trace subdivision in Albertville on Saturday.

According to Albertville Assistant Police Chief Jaime Smith, police were called to the scene of a domestic dispute at a home in Albertville around 1 p.m.

Authorities said that when officers arrived, a man was standing in the driveway with a woman and two kids, holding a firearm. Police identified this man as Chris Higdon. Authorities reported that soon after, shots were fired from Higdon, and he ran back inside the home; the woman and kids were able to escape safely. Once he was back inside the home, more shots were fired, Smith said.

After Higdon was inside, officers said they heard several explosions, and then the house caught on fire. Police stated that the fire department was called, but the firefighters couldn't get close enough to the home to put out the fire because the man inside the home was still armed.

Officers set up a perimeter around the house. Police reported that since they weren't sure if Higdon was still inside the home, authorities shut down Northridge Trace subdivision and sent a helicopter up to look for him from the sky.

After the fire was out, police said they found a body inside the home around 7 p.m. Smith said the body couldn't be identified due to its burned state, and they couldn't confirm that the body was Higdon's.

Investigators found evidence to suggest that some type of homemade bombs were in the house, but they have to investigate further. A wrecker was on its way to the scene in order to lift up the two cars in the driveway and make sure there were no bombs underneath.

Albertville police, Albertville firefighters, Marshall County Sheriff's Department, Boaz police, Guntersville police, Alabama State Trooper bomb disposal squad, and the state fire marshal all had reported to the scene.

The woman and kids have been reported as safe.

Higdon was arrested in 2012 on hunting-related charges, pleading guilty to two of them, according to court documents.

Copyright 2013 WAFF. All rights reserved.

