IRVINGTON — An unarmed man shot to death by Irvington police in 2013 told police to "come and bring the best they got" just prior to the fatal confrontation, according to newly released 911 recordings and documents.

Abdul Kamal spoke to a dispatcher at the department at approximately 1:35 a.m., saying he was frustrated that officers had visited his home in recent days searching for him.

"I've been calling for the past two days, trying to figure out what the police are looking for me for," he said. "I tried. I got transferred to every department. All they did is talk nasty, talk slick and do whatever they going to do."

The dispatcher eventually attempted to arrange a way for the 30-year-old Kamal to turn himself in, but Kamal resisted.

"Tell them to come and bring the best they got...I tried to deal with it the right way," he said. "Tell them to come. I'm in the middle of the street."

Less than half an hour later, Kamal was dead after being shot outside his estranged wife's home on Stanley Street. Last month, an Essex County grand jury declined to indict three Irvington officers — Paul Noel, Simon Johnson and Patrick Cadet — for their respective roles in his death.

READ MORE:

Kamal's family pledges 'fight for justice' after cops not indicted in fatal shooting

Many of the other calls released in response to a public records request by NJ Advance Media depict Kamal's wife, Tiffany Kamal, pleading with police to intervene after he kicked in the door to the second-floor home she shared with their two children.

In a series of brief calls, she whispered to a dispatcher that she was hiding in a basement and asked officers to hurry to the scene.

Kamal's mother, Michele Kamal, also contacted police to tell them that she was concerned about her son, saying he was intoxicated and suffered from mental illness. She also warned that he was "angry" at police for arresting him two months prior, and may be headed to his wife's home.

"He do got mental problems so I just need to call this in, in case they see him in the street and try to do something to him," she told police.

When asked by a dispatcher on a subsequent call if Kamal may be armed, his mother replied that she was unsure.

"He may have (a weapon). He may have a gun, I'm not sure," she said.

Both calls from Michele Kamal were recorded after 2 a.m., meaning her son was already dead by the time she made contact with police.

Noel, Johnson and Cadet all filed incident reports following the Nov. 11, 2013 shooting, stating that they arrived to find Kamal extremely distraught outside the home.

Kamal defied orders to stop walking away from the scene and take his hand out of a sweatshirt pocket, and eventually backed up toward the house while demanding to speak to his daughter, according to the reports.

The father of two had a criminal history that included domestic violence arrests, and his wife had recently obtained a restraining order against him, officials have said.

The officers' accounts say he appeared suicidal, stating several times that he was "ready to die." He continued to refuse commands to remove his hand from his pocket, and stated that he was "going to start popping off and one of yal (sic) is coming with me before yal (sic) take me out", according to Noel's report.

The officers wrote that Kamal then began loudly counting upward. After a few seconds, Noel used a blast of pepper spray to attempt to subdue him, the report said. After being sprayed, he removed his hand from his pocket to reveal what appeared to be a small black object, it said.

Seconds later, shots rang out. A total of 15 bullets were fired, 13 of which struck Kamal.

According to the reports, officers then handcuffed him and began performing CPR as they waited for medical responders, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.

READ MORE:

Civil rights group asks feds to investigate death of unarmed Irvington man shot by police

A search of his body found no weapon, only a cell phone, , though the officers involved said that his statements and demeanor during the tense standoff led them to fear for their lives.

"Due to Abdul Kamal's statements, he led me to believe that he was ready to die on today's date and he was ready to take an officer's life with him," Cadet wrote in his account.

"So when he pointed the possible weapon towards my direction and I heard the loud bang, I became in fear of my life and as well as the lives of the officers on scene causing me to fire several rounds towards his direction to neutralize the imminent danger."

Kamal's mother and other family members have maintained their belief that the use of deadly force was unjustified.

His family has joined forces with the People's Organization for Progress and other civil rights organizations in protesting the decision not to indict the three officers, and said they will continue to push for a federal investigation into Kamal's death.

The group has argued that local authorities were too close to the law enforcement agencies involved to conduct a fair analysis of the situation. They have cited comments Acting Essex County Prosecutor Carolyn A. Murray made to the media in November, saying preliminary findings indicated the shooting was justified and stressing that Abdul Kamal had been arrested for domestic violence in the past.

"If the (federal) government takes it, that it would be fair," Kamal's mother told NJ Advance Media in September. "With the local, I don't know who's friends with who. That's what I want, I want fair."

A spokesperson for U.S Attorney Paul Fishman's office confirmed recently that it had received a letter from the group requesting the investigation, but declined to comment further.

The activists have said that they do not believe the shooting was racially motivated. Noel, Johnson and Cadet are all black.

"It's not a racial thing," Michele Kamal said in an interview last month. "It's justice...we are going to get justice one way or another."

Dan Ivers may be reached at divers@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DanIversNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.