The 4th Judicial District Attorney’s Office said a man who was shot by Fountain police Monday night has died.

The Office on Tuesday identified the man as Specialist Jonathan D. Clark III, 25. A release issued late Tuesday night by Fort Carson confirmed that Clark had served at the Mountain Post for four years and returned in June from a deployment to Kuwait.

The release states that Clark was a member of the 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, and was born in Germantown, N.Y.

The shooting happened just after 5 p.m. Monday (11/11/13) near the intersection of Crest Drive and Crest Street after police responded to a call about a crash and possible shots fired.

Fountain Deputy Chief Bill Elder said that once officers arrived, a woman was running from a crashed car and a man was sitting by himself with a gun pointed at his head.

Fountain police said two officers were forced to shoot Clark twice after he pointed his gun at them. He was struck in the chest and hand and was taken to Memorial Hospital.

No officers or residents were injured. The woman’s name wasn’t released.

The District Attorney’s Office will conduct a thorough investigation into the shooting and determine if it was justified. The two Fountain officers are on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

“We’re now finding out that it was an ongoing situation,” said Police Chief Todd Evans, referring to Clark and the woman. “We hope that we can get all the background on what occurred and what really was at the root of this individual’s issues. People out there are getting more desperate and we hate to see that. It’s something we train our officers to deal with, but it’s a reality for them now, out on the streets.”

Barbara Champion, a resident of the neighborhood for 40 years, said she was sad to hear about Clark’s death but is sympathetic to the officers involved.

“They have to defend themselves,” she said. “They may have wives and families, too. What (else can) you do in a situation like this? I don’t like it. It’s coming too close to home.”

Another neighbor expressed concern that stray bullets from the shooting hit neighborhood property, but police said there’s no indication that happened.