HAMILTON — The Mercer County Prosecutor's Office is investigating after a man was shot by a Hamilton police officer late Friday and later died after emergency surgery, according to a release by the prosecutor's office.

Gary Boyd Sr., 42, of Hamilton, was pronounced dead at 4:49 a.m. this morning after emergency surgery at Capital Health Regional Medical Center, according to the release.

The preliminary investigation indicates Boyd was shot after brandishing a knife with a 5-inch blade at Hamilton police officers who responded to a domestic violence incident at a home on the 1300 block of Cedar Lane about 10 p.m. Friday, said Mercer County First Assistant Prosecutor Angelo Onofri. Boyd had stabbed himself repeatedly before threatening the police officers, according to the prosecutor’s office.

The prosecutor’s office is investigating the incident, which is standard in cases of police use of force. The officers involved in the incident turned their service weapons in and are on administrative leave, pending the conclusion of the investigation, Onofri said. He declined to say how many officers were involved.

Police had responded after a female caller reported she had a temporary restraining order against Boyd, 42, of Hamilton, her estranged husband. She reported to police that Boyd was sending her text messages, the release said.

As she was on the phone with police, Boyd appeared from the basement door, produced a knife and began to stab himself, the prosecutor’s office said in the release. The woman then ran from the house, the release said.

Boyd followed the woman into the backyard and from there to the front of her house, then across the street to a neighbor’s driveway, where he again stabbed himself with the knife, the release said.

Two units from the Hamilton Police Department arrived at the scene to find Boyd armed with the knife, the release said.

A preliminary investigation by the prosecutor’s office indicated the officers repeatedly asked Boyd to drop the knife, the release said.

“The preliminary investigation further revealed that Mr. Boyd brandished the knife in a threatening manner and an officer discharged his weapon, striking Boyd,” the release said.

Onofri would not comment on how many times Boyd was shot. He also declined to say specifically where he was shot and where he had stabbed himself, saying that prosecutor’s office are waiting on the results of an autopsy.

An autopsy is scheduled for early this week, the release said.

2 trchristie HINDASH.JPG

CONNECT WITH US: On mobile or desktop:

• Like Times of Trenton on Facebook

• Follow @TimesofTrenton on Twitter