No criminal charges will be filed against a Liberty University security officer who fatally shot a student in November, according to a report released Thursday.

The report, prepared by Deputy Commonwealth’s Attorney Jeff Bennett, states security officer A. S. Mulberry acted in self-defense when he shot 19-year-old Liberty University student Joshua Hathaway on Nov. 19 at a residential annex off Odd Fellows Road.

In his report, Bennett said he received the police case file Feb. 12. Police couldn’t finish their file until they received the final autopsy report on Jan. 20.

The 10-page report details the circumstances surrounding Hathaway’s confrontation with Mulberry. It is based on interviews, DNA analysis, forensic testing, computer analysis and half a dozen search warrants, among other things.

The News & Advance tried to reach Mulberry for comment Thursday, but the Liberty University Police Department said he would not return to work for at least another week or two. Johnnie Moore, spokesman for the college, said the university will not issue a response to the Commonwealth’s Attorney’s report.

The report states Mulberry told investigators he was sitting at the front desk of Annex II at about 4 a.m., eating a meal, when Hathaway entered the lobby. Hathaway had blood trickling from his face and told Mulberry he had been mugged and his car stolen.

Mulberry asked Hathaway to sit down as he retrieved the first-aid kit from his vehicle. As Mulberry encouraged him to sit, Hathaway’s "demeanor changed entirely and he said, ‘Sir, I have a problem,’" Bennett wrote in his report.

Hathaway then revealed a yellow-handled mallet from beneath his shirt. Mulberry stepped back to "create space" when he tripped and fell.

"As he got back to his feet, Hathaway was closing in with the mallet raised to strike," Bennett wrote.

Mulberry and Hathaway fought, falling against the front desk countertop, when Mulberry forced Hathaway to drop the mallet.

Even without the mallet, Hathaway "continued to attack," Bennett wrote.

"Mulberry felt Hathaway ‘starting to claw at his neck,’" according to the Commonwealth’s Attorney.

Amid the fight, Mulberry struggled to radio for help, not realizing it had switched off the police channel during the brawl.

Hathaway reached for the pistol at Mulberry’s hip. The two wrestled to the ground, Hathaway on top, as Mulberry tried to buck him off.

"I knew if I did not get him off me I was dead," Mulberry told investigators.

Back on his feet, Mulberry drew his pistol to fire at the student.

"The gun clicked but did not discharge," Bennett wrote.

Mulberry fought to shove Hathaway back while loading a bullet into the chamber.

The officer fired two rounds in quick succession, a standard maneuver called a "double tap." Hathaway paused and collapsed to the floor and said "All right, I’m done, I’m done," Bennett wrote.

Hours earlier, the 19-year-old student had returned to his dorm room at Annex I, across the street from Annex II, after a day of classes. About 10:30 p.m. that night, Sean Wong, one of Hathaway’s two roommates, saw his roommate for the last time.

"I just asked him about his day," Wong told The News & Advance in November. "It was not anything special."

Hathaway told his roommate his day had gone "pretty good," though he needed to visit the dorm’s computer lab to use the printer.

"He said he needed to print out some homework," Wong said.

Hours later, Mulberry radioed for help, shouting "shots fired" and "officer needs help," Bennett wrote in his report.

Officers streamed into the dorm, handcuffing Hathaway as the student lay prone and breathing. As his breathing stopped, the responders began CPR, continuing rescue breaths and compressions for more than 20 minutes before pronouncing him dead.

Meanwhile, Mulberry rushed to the parking lot and vomited onto the pavement.

According to a search warrant return, investigators discovered a pair of "red-stained scissors" beneath Hathaway’s body. Bennett wrote "medical implements used to treat Hathaway were left behind intentionally by [the Lynchburg Fire Department] so as not to disturb the scene any further than necessary."

At the hospital, doctors and nurses noted abrasions and contusions across Mulberry’s face and hands, as a cut lip bled down his chin. A forensic examiner determined his injuries "were consistent with a physical fight as he described," Bennett wrote.

The lobby at Annex II did not have any cameras to document the fatal altercation.

In the following days, Lynchburg police filed six search warrants, seizing Hathaway’s academic and financial records, his desktop computer and multiple flash drives, among other things.

Detectives found Hathaway’s vehicle — which he reported stolen — in the parking lot of his dorm.

In Hathaway’s pants pocket, investigators discovered a blood-stained knife. Blood on the knife and droplets found near his car tested positive for Hathaway’s DNA.

An autopsy performed through the Medical Examiner’s Office determined Hathaway died of a gunshot wound to the chest. Tests of the gunpowder from Hathaway’s shirt showed the shots were fired less than four feet away, Bennett wrote.

As part of the autopsy, lab technicians performed a routine toxicology screen, testing Hathaway’s blood for alcohol and 12 common recreational drugs such as marijuana, cocaine, PCP, and opiates. Bennett wrote none of these substances were detected.

In the wake of Hathaway’s death, Lynchburg investigators interviewed his friends, family members, roommates and others.

"Various witnesses labeled Hathaway as helpful, private, genuine, quiet and different," Bennett wrote. "No one was aware of any problems that Hathaway had with any specific individuals. There is no evidence that Hathaway and Officer Mulberry knew one another or had any encounters prior to the morning of the shooting."

Feeling financial pressure, Hathaway searched for a job, selling blood plasma as often as twice per week to make money.

"He was apparently receiving scholarship money and help from his parents, but was worried about paying room and board for the upcoming semester and repair work for his car," Bennett wrote.

Two witnesses told investigators Hathaway had trouble sleeping and described his sleep habits as unusual. Several interviewees thought Hathaway struggled with depression, and was seen with possibly self-inflicted cuts across his face. Those close to Hathaway thought he was under "significant stress," Bennett wrote.

"One person noted Hathaway may have had anger issues," according to the report.

Several professors noted a slide in Hathaway’s attendance. One told investigators Hathaway’s grade in his class "was suffering" while another reported "Hathaway was doing very well in class," Bennett wrote.

Amid the pressures, no one observed unusual behavior from Hathaway the night before his death. Wong said Hathaway had offered him a ride to the Amtrak Station, as the college neared its Thanksgiving break.

Bennett wrote no charges will be brought against Mulberry, as investigators felt he acted out of self-defense. Hathaway stood about 3 inches taller than the security officer, the Commonwealth’s Attorney office reported, and outweighed him by nearly 30 pounds.

According to the report, Mulberry tried to call for help and struggled with Hathaway until Mulberry was out of breath. Hathaway attacked Mulberry in several ways and seemed undeterred when Mulberry pulled his gun, the report states.

"Based on totality of the circumstances, Mulberry’s belief that he was in imminent danger of death or serious harm was reasonable. In short, he was taken by surprise when Hathaway suddenly produced a deadly weapon and attacked him," Bennett wrote. "The threat to his life was not only reasonably perceived, but based on the evidence, quite real."

Bennett noted his report only is concerned with criminal liability, not civil culpability or LU’s policies and procedures.

Later in the morning of Nov. 19, Mulberry was released from the hospital. Licensed through the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services, Mulberry is certified to carry a firearm through May.

"He has been fully cooperative with the investigation, agreeing to turn over evidence, submitting to multiple interviews, and providing both written and recorded statements about the event," Bennett wrote of Mulberry. "There is no reason to doubt his veracity or recollection. The condition of the crime scene and the physical evidence are consistent with his recall of the morning’s events."