An NYPD cop shot and killed a knife-wielding man in Brooklyn on Monday after the man pointed a 7-inch steak knife at the officer and lunged in the officer's direction, witnesses and police said.

Cops were called to the 900 block of Hart St. in Bushwick around 3 p.m. after a man called 911 and said someone armed with a knife was threatening to kill him. As cops approached the address in a police vehicle, the armed man, later identified as Rexford Dasrath, 22, banged on the patrol car with the blade, NYPD Deputy Commissioner John McCarthy said.

Advertisement

"The officers continue to drive in order to create space between them and the man," said McCarthy , the NYPD's top spokesman. "Before they exit, he flings a bottle at a taxi."

The cops got out of the car and split up to approach the Dasrath, whom a source said weighed about 300 pounds. He lived on the block.

Advertisement

"They're both issuing commands, 'Drop the knife! Drop the knife!'" McCarthy said. "The suspect lunges at one officer with the knife in his hands."

The cop fired on the man from a distance of about five or six feet, McCarthy said. An NYPD press release said Dasrath was shot in the chest and one of his hands, but a cop source said he had five bullet wounds, though some may have been exit wounds.

Dasrath, who was said to have had learning disabilities, was taken to Woodhull Hospital, where he died about 3:45 p.m.

The cop who fired has not been involved in shootings in the past, police said.

The dead man's mother was in shock, a neighbor said.

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"She saw that it looked like him. I heard her ask, 'Is that my son?' Is that my son?'" Iris Gonzalez, 59, said.

Gonzalez said she would often see Dasrath and his mother walking on the block.

"His mom said he's slow, that he has a learning disability," she said.

Advertisement

Meribhet Lopez, 25, a Bushwick resident who works at Beauty Palace, a salon about a block from the scene of the police-involved shooting, said she heard five shots.

"When I ran over I saw him lying on the ground," she said of Dasrath. "He was rolling back and forth holding himself. The floor was full of blood."

She said cops were trying to gain control of the scene after the shooting. "The police were trying to calm everyone down," she said. "People kept yelling, 'Why would you shoot him that many times in the chest?'"

With Mark Morales