By Regina Zilbermints

A West Des Moines police officer discontinued a high-speed chase early Wednesday morning, but the woman who was being pursued continued driving and her vehicle ended up submerged in a quarry.

By the time officers arrived at Crystal Lake, near the Maffitt Reservoir, all they could see were tire tracks leading to the water’s edge and bubbles in the water. Divers located the vehicle at about 8 a.m., about four hours after the pursuit began. The car was pulled out of the water with the woman’s body still in it.

The woman was identified as Brenda Lea Hatfield, 51, originally from Mitchellville. Officials said Hatfield lived in Des Moines.

The death was the fourth in central Iowa since February tied to a police chase. However, Wednesday’s death was the only one that occurred after officers had discontinued their pursuit.

On average in the U.S., one person a day dies in a police chase, according to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration statistics.

“There are a lot of things we’re looking into, and the biggest thing is why,” West Des Moines Police Sgt. Ken O’Brien said of Wednesday’s pursuit. “We want to find the motivation that led her to do that.”

The chase began around 3:48 a.m. Wednesday when a West Des Moines police officer spotted the woman driving erratically, possibly while impaired, near South 11th Street and the Southwest Connector.

The officer turned on his emergency lights in an attempt to get the driver to pull over. However, the vehicle began going faster as the driver attempted to elude the officer, according to a news release.

The woman continued driving recklessly, running stop signs, as she drove down Army Post Road and then onto Maffitt Lake Road. Speeds reached 75 to 80 mph, O’Brien said.

When the woman turned onto South 54th Street, the officer discontinued the chase, O’Brien said. The officer knew the road was a dead end with barricades across it before the lake. The officer slowed down and called for backup, O’Brien said.

When officers arrived at the water around 4 a.m., they began searching the area and spotted tire tracks to the water and bubbles, indicating the car had likely driven into the lake, O’Brien said. By that point the car was completely submerged.

Authorities called in the Central Iowa Underwater Search and Rescue team, and divers found the car. The search and rescue team, known as the Central Iowa Dive Team, has responded to five incidents this year; Wednesday’s search was the first in West Des Moines this year.

A car submerged in the water is “a fairly rare event anyway, and this particular event is extremely rare,” given the preceding chase, O’Brien said. “In 25 years I’ve never seen a situation like this.”

Relatives of Hatfield could not be reached to comment Wednesday.

West Des Moines police officials will review the incident, including the pursuit, O’Brien said. The department’s chase policy allows officers to call off a chase at their discretion. The policy also says officers can’t be punished for making that choice.

“The officer pursuing the vehicle stopped it on his own,” O’Brien said. “He didn’t have a higher authority calling it off.”

The number of chases West Des Moines police have engaged in this year was not available Wednesday. Des Moines police, which did not participate in Wednesday’s pursuit, have been in 64 chases this year and were in 74 all of last year.

Several central Iowa agencies in the past year have been involved with chases that became controversial, either because of the speeds reached, where the chases occurred or how they ended. Three chases resulted in the death of the driver. They were:

• Jeremiah Eldon Johnson, 33, who on Feb. 15 led law enforcement officers on a chase through several central Iowa communities before slamming into a parked police cruiser at 130 mph. He died in the crash but his 5-year-old son, in the car’s back seat, survived.

• Melissa Sue Toillion, 29, died on March 10 after she crashed while fleeing Polk County deputies.

• Tyler Comstock, 19, who on Nov. 4 was shot by an Ames police officer after he led police on a chase onto the Iowa State University campus and failed to heed police orders to turn off his vehicle. The Story County attorney ruled the shooting justified.

On April 4, West Des Moines officers pursued a vehicle carrying three women who had allegedly shoplifted more than $1,500 in merchandise from Valley West Mall. No one was injured in the pursuit, but the fleeing vehicle sideswiped another car at an intersection.

Officials determined the chase was warranted and properly executed.

In August, Des Moines Police Chief Judy Bradshaw said she aimed to tighten Des Moines police policy for chases but stopped short of banning them and said too many hard and fast rules could be ineffective.

In West Des Moines, O’Brien said authorities would continue to investigate the incident.

“It’s really frustrating,” O’Brien said. “And anytime you have an officer involved in a situation where a death occurred, you’re concerned about their well-being.”