SOUTH BRUNSWICK —A state grand jury has cleared a member of the Middlesex County Special Operations Response Team who fatally shot a South Brunswick man after a four-hour standoff at the man's house.

A police officer has been cleared of charges in the fatal shooting of Andrew Murnieks, seen here in his South Brunswick yearbook picture. (File photo)

The grand jurors "no-billed" the officer Tuesday after hearing "extensive testimony and evidence," in connection with the death of Andrew Murnieks, 28, in November 2013, according to Acting Attorney General John Hoffman.

Hoffman said the fatal shooting of Murnieks was investigated by the Attorney General's Shooting Response Team, made up of investigators from the Division of Criminal Justice and the State Police major crime unit.

Murnieks was shot inside his house at 8 Hannah Drive about 10:30 p.m. on Nov. 20, 2013, Hoffman said.

RELATED

:

Source: Cops had been to home of South Brunswick man shot by police 8 times in 4 years

He said about 6:30 p.m., South Brunswick police were sent to the house on a report of an emotionally disturbed person. When they arrived, Murnieks' mother told them her son was a schizophrenic and was off his medications.

Hoffman said the investigation revealed when the officers tried to speak to Murnieks at the front door, he walked away at first, but then turned and charged at them with a large blade held over his head. The officers retreated and notified the county special operations response team.

There was no one but Murnieks in the house at the time.

After the confrontation, Murnieks shut the door but could be seen running through the house and waving the blade, Hoffman said, adding, the man opened the front door and a rear sliding door several times to yell and wave the weapon.

Hoffman said Murnieks yelled repeatedly that he was going to kill the officers.

He said when the special operations response team arrived, the team was told Murnieks had access to a machete, a knife and a hammer.

Hoffman said a crisis negotiator made repeated efforts over the next several hours to resolve the situation, but negotiations broke down.

When Murnieks appeared to be barricading the doorway, the special operations team forced its way into the house.

Hoffman said the investigation revealed that Murnieks attacked the first officer who entered the house, striking him multiple times in the head and face with a heavy metal wrench. He said Murnieks also attempted to grab the officer's handgun.

The officer, a member of the Old Bridge Police Department, fired one round from his service weapon that struck Murnieks in the chest.

Murnieks was treated at the scene and taken to Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, where he was pronounced dead an hour later. The officer was taken to the hospital for treatment on injuries to his jaw and head.

Hoffman did not identify the officer who fired the short that killed Murnieks.

Law enforcement sources said after the incident that police were called to the Murnieks' home eight times over a four-year period for disturbances involved the disturbed man.

Hoffman said an officer may use deadly force in New Jersey when the officer reasonably believes it is immediately necessary to protect the officer or another person from imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm.

Sue Epstein may be reached at sepstein@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @susan_epstein. Find NJ.com on Facebook.