SAN MATEO, Fla. – Putnam County deputies killed a man late Wednesday night after he shot one deputy in the arm, according to the Putnam County Sheriff's Office.

Deputies responded to 730 Old San Mateo Road in the San Mateo area after receiving a report of a disturbance and shots fired at a home around 10:30 p.m.

Deputies said they arrived on scene and saw Timothy Mahoney, 58, on the back porch, armed with a handgun.

Mahoney refused to put the gun down, deputies said. They said negotiators worked with him for about an hour until it became apparent from his behavior that he would not cooperate.

Deputy Arron Thomas, a 15-year veteran of the department, fired a Taser and then bean bags at Mahoney.

"They made a decision at that point to use the Taser XREP, which is a less-lethal round that is fired from a shotgun platform, and it was ineffective and that's when he turned on the deputies and fired at them," said Capt. Homer DeLoach.

Deputies said Mahoney shot Thomas, hitting him in the elbow. Sgt. David Atkinson and Deputy Chris Bohannon returned fire, killing Mahoney (pictured below in booking photo from previous arrest).

Mahoney was transported to Putnam Community Medical Center and died while en route to the hospital.

The injured deputy was hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries and underwent surgery. He was released from the hospital later Thursday.

The Putnam County Sheriff's Office said that before deputies arrived, Mahoney, his mother and brother were having an argument about money.

"Well, he actually fired a couple of shots from inside the home. So yes, I would say at some point they were clearly in danger," DeLoach said.

Deputies were able to get Mahoney's mother and brother out of the home unharmed before he shot at deputies.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating at the request of the Sheriff's Office.

"It's very upsetting," neighbor Kevin Ryan said. "Kids walk by here all day, school buses go by here all day long. It's definitely very upsetting."

The deputies involved in the shooting were placed on administrative leave pending a review of the shooting, which is the agency's policy.

Mahoney has a long arrest record in Putnam County. He's been in and out of jail on 17 felony convictions, including drugs, battery on a law enforcement officer, battery on EMS personnel, and did a one-and-a-half-year prison term for DUI hit-and-run in St. Johns County.