Jessie Gordon, This photo is from 7/1/2012 arrest (Source: EBRSO)

BATON ROUGE, LA (WAFB) - A suspect is dead and two law enforcement officers were injured in a shooting at a Baton Rouge hotel early Thursday morning.

The shooting happened at the Magnuson Hotel on Gwenadele Avenue off Airline Highway near I-12 around 1:15 a.m.

"All I know is that Jessie took his own life," said Loraine Murtishaw, the grandmother of the suspect.

The East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office identified the suspect as Jessie Gordon, 22, of Denham Springs. Deputies said he had multiple drug-related and burglary warrants out of Livingston Parish and East Baton Rouge Parish. A list of those charges can be found at the bottom of this report.

Murtishaw said her grandson did not want to go back to jail. She says in the past, he has been arrested and had been in trouble with the law. She says he had lived with her for about six weeks.

"We thought he was getting his life together," Murtishaw said. "He had just recently started getting into trouble again."



Officers got a tip that their suspect was in a room at the Magnuson Hotel. Officers from the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office, Livingston Parish Sheriff's Office, Denham Springs Police Department and Louisiana State Police went to the hotel to serve a search warrant.

Investigators said after entering the man's room to serve the warrant, the officers reported hearing the suspect fire a shot and a deputy with the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office returned fire.

A state trooper and a deputy with EBRSO were wounded. Authorities reported they received minor injuries from "bullet shrapnel." The trooper was taken to the hospital for treatment. The deputy was initially treated at the scene and later taken to a hospital as well. The deputy's wound was described as "very superficial." The names of the injured officers were not released.

The response by law enforcement agencies to the shooting was impressive and quite literally lit up the early morning darkness. The outcome was not as bad as it could have been.

"You never know what you're walking into," said Lt. J.B. Slayton with Louisiana State Police. "It could be a warrant for a non-violent crime. We're definitely going to go in with our partners. You never know what you're going to come across."

EBRSO SWAT later entered the hotel room and found Gordon dead. Investigators said they believe he shot and killed himself.

Gordon had the following outstanding warrants with the Denham Springs Police Department:

Possession of Schedule IV controlled dangerous substance



Possession of drug paraphernalia

Driving under suspension

Expired motor vehicle insurance

No insurance

Switched license plate

Resisting an officer

The outstanding warrants with the Livingston Parish Sheriff's Office were burglary of an inhabited dwelling and theft of a firearm

The East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office had charges on him for illegal possession of stolen things.

Deputies said he is suspected in other ongoing burglary investigations.

The East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office and Louisiana State Police are investigating the shooting.

Copyright 2013 WAFB. All rights reserved.