Ray Kisonas

Michigan State Police on Thursday night arrested an Ida woman at a Dundee hotel on felony criminal charges for allegedly caus­ing an accident in Ohio that claimed the lives of her twin infant children.

Lori Massingill, 38, was taken into custody at the Days Inn and lodged in the county jail on multiple charges. She is expected to be extradited to Ohio, where a grand jury indicted her on two counts of ag­gravated vehicular homi­cide and one count of child endangerment, according to Paul A. Dobson, Wood County prosecutor.

The charges stem from a Nov. 12 single-car accident in Troy Township, which is south of Oregon, Ohio, and near the Ohio Turn­pike. Killed in the accident were Ms. Massingill?s twin 6-week-old infant children, Parker and Presley.

According the Ohio High­way Patrol, Bowling Green Post, Ms. Massingill was driving recklessly on Fos­toria Rd. south of Ohio 163 in Wood County. The 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt was head­ing north when it struck a railroad crossing and went airborne.

Dispatcher Brian Get­tinger of the Bowling Green Post said the car left the pavement, re- entered the road and went off the other side. It struck a ditch, rolled twice and came to rest on its hood. The accident oc­curred around 11 a. m. Mr. Gettinger said the speed limit in that area is 55 mph, and investigators are trying to determine whether ex­cessive speed was a factor in the accident.

The babies were in car seats but police are trying to determine whether the children were properly re­strained and the correct seats were used. Neither they nor their mother were ejected. The infants were pronounced dead at dif­ferent hospitals, and Ms. Massingill also was injured.

Police in Ohio and Mon­roe County are trying to piece together Ms. Massin­gill?s time line on the day of the accident. In an unusual twist, a woman believed to be an acquaintance of Ms. Massingill?s report­edly tried to use her credit card to rent a hotel room in Dundee on the morning of the accident.

Dundee police Sgt. Brett Ansel said the woman was carrying the babies at the time she attempted to rent the room. The clerk refused to accept the credit card, and the woman left. Sgt. Ansel said an employee of the hotel later found Ms. Massingill?s purse in the parking lot with its con­tents spilled on the pave­ment. It is believed that the fatal accident occurred in Ohio on the same morn­ing of the incident at the Dundee hotel.

?It was a little bit odd,? Sgt. Ansel said, adding that he is trying to piece togeth­er the events of that day and determine their signifi­cance. He was planning to work with Ohio authorities today.

On Thursday, state police of the Monroe post with assistance from Dundee police went to the Days Inn and found Ms. Massingill there. She was taken into custody without incident.

Under Ohio law, each of the felony counts car­ries a maximum penalty of three years in prison. A sec­ond child endangerment charge is pending, Ohio law enforcement authori­ties said.