Oklahoma City police have released more information about a fatal officer-involved shooting.According to officers, they were in the area of Southeast 44th Street and Shields Boulevard Wednesday searching for stolen vehicles when they ran the tag of a vehicle that confirmed it had been stolen.Police said they approached the vehicle in the parking lot of the Shell gas station located on the southeast corner of Southeast 44th Street and Interstate 35 and a woman got out of the vehicle and ran into the gas station where she was taken into custody.A man who was in the vehicle, later identified as Simon P. Ramirez, 30, then fled and officers said they pursued him. Ramirez jumped a concrete barricade and ran westbound across I-35, police said.According to investigators, Ramirez then pointed his weapon at motorists as he fled across the highway during rush-hour traffic. Officers said they realized that he was carrying a firearm when he entered onto the lighted highway.The suspect pointed his weapon at officers and refused commands to stop, police said. Two officers fired their weapons, killing the suspect, investigators said. Five officers said they witnessed the shooting from various locations on the highway.The suspect was stopped in the southbound outside lane of I-35, near the southbound Southeast 51st Street exit prompting the closure of the roadway.Southbound I-35 was closed for approximately 5½ hours to allow for the scene investigation. The two officers who fired their weapons, identified as Detective Sgt. Tony Foreman and Officer Samuel Pagel, were placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the criminal and administrative investigations.The name of the female suspect has not been released. According to police, the charges against her are pending.Crime footer

Oklahoma City police have released more information about a fatal officer-involved shooting.

According to officers, they were in the area of Southeast 44th Street and Shields Boulevard Wednesday searching for stolen vehicles when they ran the tag of a vehicle that confirmed it had been stolen.

Advertisement

Police said they approached the vehicle in the parking lot of the Shell gas station located on the southeast corner of Southeast 44th Street and Interstate 35 and a woman got out of the vehicle and ran into the gas station where she was taken into custody.

A man who was in the vehicle, later identified as Simon P. Ramirez, 30, then fled and officers said they pursued him. Ramirez jumped a concrete barricade and ran westbound across I-35, police said.

According to investigators, Ramirez then pointed his weapon at motorists as he fled across the highway during rush-hour traffic. Officers said they realized that he was carrying a firearm when he entered onto the lighted highway.

The suspect pointed his weapon at officers and refused commands to stop, police said. Two officers fired their weapons, killing the suspect, investigators said. Five officers said they witnessed the shooting from various locations on the highway.

The suspect was stopped in the southbound outside lane of I-35, near the southbound Southeast 51st Street exit prompting the closure of the roadway.

Southbound I-35 was closed for approximately 5½ hours to allow for the scene investigation. The two officers who fired their weapons, identified as Detective Sgt. Tony Foreman and Officer Samuel Pagel, were placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the criminal and administrative investigations.

The name of the female suspect has not been released. According to police, the charges against her are pending.