Community

Nashville - Indiana State Police Detectives at the Bloomington Post are continuing their investigation of a police action shooting that occurred Thanksgiving night in Brown County. Thus far, the investigation has yielded the following information.



On Thursday, November 28th, the Brown County Sheriff’s Department received a tip that Troy Harden, 44 of Nashville was at a residence on Annandale Dr., and there was a warrant for his arrest. Officers confirmed two warrants for Probation Violations from Monroe County, Indiana.



The Brown County Sheriff’s Department along with the Nashville Town Marshal’s Office arrived at the house on Annandale to serve the warrant. They were permitted into the home by the renter and located Harden there. According to the Officers and the renter, Harden resisted arrest and told police to “kill him”. Officers then saw that Harden was in possession of a black handgun. One officer deployed his taser; however Harden escaped through a window.



Officers pursued Harden through the adjoining woods and attempted to use their taser again. They continued to follow Harden through the woods and then onto Annandale Dr.



Officers were then able to make contact with Harden with a taser. Immediately after Harden fell to the ground, he distinctly pointed his gun directly at the officers. Officers then fired their weapons at Harden striking him twice. Officers then immediately rendered first aid to Harden, who was transported to Columbus Regional Hospital where he was later pronounced dead.



The ISP Crime Scene Investigators located Harden’s handgun at the scene and the next day, investigators located components of a methamphetamine lab in Harden’s truck, which was found at the residence on Annandale Dr.



Witnesses told detectives that Harden knew there was a warrant for his arrest and that he was afraid of going to prison.



Brown County Prosecutor Jim Oliver said that he will review the investigation upon its completion.



For more information, contact Prosecutor Jim Oliver at 812-988-5470.





-30-



DURNIL