By Jonathan Shorman;

A deputy trying hard to see Joshua Ford’s hands, looking for a gun, called out: “He doesn’t have anything.”

Less than a second later, another deputy shot Ford three times. The suspect had been shouting he would shoot deputies. And the second deputy thought he had seen a gun; it turned out to be a cell phone.

Those details come in a new report released Tuesday that says the Dec. 1 shooting of Ford, a Springfield man, by a Greene County Sheriff’s deputy was justified. Ford, while threatening to shoot deputies, was advancing on them, the report says.

Greene County Prosecuting Attorney Dan Patterson released the report, less than a month after Corporal Michael Hurney shot Ford.

The sheriff's office has said Ford rushed three deputies near woods in western Greene County. Ford, authorities said, appeared to be carrying something. Parts of the confrontation were videotaped. The News-Leader is requesting the footage, which is public record.

Patterson’s report offers the clearest narrative to date of what happened in the shooting.

Deputies were called to a home that evening on Farm Road 45, just north of Interstate 44, by a homeowner who had found — and confronted — an unknown man outside his home.

The homeowner, Don Clark, is the director of safety and transportation at Missouri State University. Clark is a retired Springfield police officer.

In a letter to Sheriff Jim Arnott, Patterson wrote that Clark attempted to speak with Ford and that Ford told Clark he had better not make Ford shoot him. Clark said Ford had a shirt or sweater concealing his hands. Clark went back inside his house to get a handgun and flashlight.

When Clark went back outside, he illuminated Ford with the flashlight as Ford walked toward the home, according to the report, with Ford about 100 feet away. At that point, Ford allegedly said he had a gun.

Clark called 911 and Ford entered heavy brush where Clark lost sight of him. Greene County Sheriff’s deputies first arrived at 5:35 p.m., the report says, and began searching for Ford, finding him at 5:39 p.m.

Patterson wrote that Ford told law enforcement he had a gun and would shoot or kill officers. Ford allegedly refused to obey the orders of Hurney and Sergeant Andy Price, who were on scene with Deputy Christopher Sowards.

According to the report, Ford pointed his hands holding something at deputies and began moving toward Hurney. With Ford only feet away from Hurney, Sowards made his announcement that “he doesn’t have anything.”

Less that four-tenths of a second after Soward spoke, Hurney fired three shots, hitting Ford in the arm, leg and chest. “Corporal Hurney had less than one second to react to Ford’s final hostile act,” Patterson’s report says.

At a press conference later Tuesday, Arnott said in many officer-involved shootings a phenomenon known as “auditory exclusion” occurs.

“And that is where either soldiers or law enforcement officers really can’t hear anything when a situation is going on such as this,” Arnott said. “Yes, the officer believed the subject had a weapon.”

Arnott also said when the deputy fired the shots, he fell down, but does not recall this. Yet, his fall is very plain on the video, Arnott said.

“That’s a characteristic of when you’re in a high-stress environment making a high-stress decision in under a second, you don’t recall everything,” Arnott said.

A search of the area found the cell phone but no gun, the report says.

Once shots were fired, Ford was taken into custody and an ambulance called. He was transported to a local hospital for treatment. Ford was later pronounced dead at the hospital.

Arnott said no toxicology reports have been received by the sheriff’s office. Arnott also said law enforcement does not know why Ford approached Clark’s home or what his motivation was. Ford had a criminal history.

Documents show he had told officers before he had a gun, when he did not and had once dared an officer to shoot him.

Hurney has been cleared to return to duty, Arnott said, adding that he hopes that he will be back soon.