MURPHYSBORO — One man is dead after he intentionally set his Murphysboro house on fire early Friday morning rather than deal with officers investigating a complaint of a beating, according to Murphysboro police. Thomas Allan Miller, 54, was suspected of beating

an acquaintance, Brandi Holderfield, 28, at his residence at 1608 Oak St.

Holderfield told police she had gone to Miller’s residence to assist him with something, and when she arrived about 1 a.m. Miller attacked her with a hammer, striking her in the face and head. She was taken to a local hospital for treatment of her injuries. Her condition was not known Friday.

Murphysboro officers went to Miller’s home to speak to him about the allegations.

As officers arrived, a man who didn’t identify himself called 911 and said if police tried to enter his home, he would blow it up. He reportedly said he was filling the house with gas.

Officers spoke briefly to Miller through the front door of his residence and quickly determined he was the caller, as the smell of natural gas was obvious.

Additional officers contacted Miller by phone. Meanwhile other officers turned off the home’s gas.

Soon, Miller said he had a firearm, at which time officers backed away from the front door.

At that time, Miller apparently began a fire in the living room. Within minutes, an explosion blew out the east windows of the house. A

second explosion was heard minutes later inside the house.

The fire spread quickly, but Murphysboro Fire Department was able to knock the flames down and gain entry.

Firefighters discovered Miller unconscious in a hallway. He was attended to by paramedics and transported to St. Joseph’s Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

According to Jackson County Coroner Thomas Kupferer, the preliminary cause of death is smoke inhalation.

Nicholas Woods is visiting family in Murphysboro and said he heard a woman screaming at about 1 a.m. Friday. The Kansas City, Mo., resident looked outside to see what was going on.

“I heard some racket, some pounding,” he said. “I heard a lady scream ‘Help, help.’”

Woods said the woman looked like she had been beaten.

“It was scary. That’s for sure,” he said. When police arrived, Woods said he stopped watching and didn’t see the fire.

Woods’ stepfather, Blaine Ensor, lives catty-corner from Miller’s home. He said he knew his neighbor as “Tom the Painter.”

“He was a nice guy, seems like,” he said.

618-351-5080