Ten months after a crash involving a deputy that killed two women, a Florida Highway Patrol investigation has found the deputy was at fault.On Dec. 1, Elizabeth Arellano Renteria and Hilda Medrano, both 21, were turning into a McDonald's off State Road 70 when an Okeechobee County sheriff’s deputy hit their vehicle.MOBILE/TABLET USERS: Watch the storyRenteria and Medrano died at the scene, and the deputy was rushed to the hospital with critical injuries.Crash witnesses said the deputy did not have his lights or sirens on and was traveling at least double the speed limit.“We just want to know the truth,” Medrano’s sister said on the day after the crash.In a traffic homicide investigation report released this week, Florida Highway Patrol investigators found the deputy was driving close to 90 mph at the moment of impact.The deputy should have had emergency lights or sirens on to warn other drivers, according to the report.The deputy was responding to a domestic disturbance call with an armed suspect at the time of the crash, according to the investigation and crash records.A blood test found that Renteria, the driver, did not have any alcohol or drugs in her system.The deputy has since medically retired because he could no longer perform his duties because of injuries suffered in the crash, according to the Okeechobee County Sheriff’s Office.>> Most Read: Treasure Coast teen awakened by stranger touching herIn an email to WPBF-TV, Okeechobee County Sheriff Paul May said not a day goes by that he doesn’t think about the crash.“I have been advised that our department will be facing civil litigation and have been advised by our attorneys not to make any statements,” the prepared comment read.View, Share Breaking News Photos On WPBF.com's u local:9146236

Ten months after a crash involving a deputy that killed two women, a Florida Highway Patrol investigation has found the deputy was at fault.

On Dec. 1, Elizabeth Arellano Renteria and Hilda Medrano, both 21, were turning into a McDonald's off State Road 70 when an Okeechobee County sheriff’s deputy hit their vehicle.

MOBILE/TABLET USERS: Watch the story

Renteria and Medrano died at the scene, and the deputy was rushed to the hospital with critical injuries.

Crash witnesses said the deputy did not have his lights or sirens on and was traveling at least double the speed limit.

“We just want to know the truth,” Medrano’s sister said on the day after the crash.

In a traffic homicide investigation report released this week, Florida Highway Patrol investigators found the deputy was driving close to 90 mph at the moment of impact.

The deputy should have had emergency lights or sirens on to warn other drivers, according to the report.

The deputy was responding to a domestic disturbance call with an armed suspect at the time of the crash, according to the investigation and crash records.

A blood test found that Renteria, the driver, did not have any alcohol or drugs in her system.

The deputy has since medically retired because he could no longer perform his duties because of injuries suffered in the crash, according to the Okeechobee County Sheriff’s Office.

>> Most Read: Treasure Coast teen awakened by stranger touching her

In an email to WPBF-TV, Okeechobee County Sheriff Paul May said not a day goes by that he doesn’t think about the crash.

“I have been advised that our department will be facing civil litigation and have been advised by our attorneys not to make any statements,” the prepared comment read.