Teen's family: 'He's never been in trouble for anything before'

A Westminister police officer was placed on administrative leave after a pursuit that ended with a deadly crash early Friday morning.Investigators said Jesse Logan Hannah, 14, of Seneca, was driving a car and had three teenage passengers.Chief Dean Awalt of the Westminster Police Department said the vehicle caught the attention of an officer when it went through a red light on Highway 123. Awalt said the officer attempted to pull the car over, but it kept going."The chase took place on (Highway) 24 until it hit right there near Eva Frank (Lane)," Awalt told WYFF. "We do not have a no-chase policy. We have a policy that gives them certain guidelines that officers have to follow."Awalt said the officer was placed on administrative leave as an internal probe and an investigation by the South Carolina Highway Patrol continues.Hannah's family said they have many questions about what happened because they do not believe the teenager would have attempted to drive someone else's car."This wasn’t the type of kid he was. He’s never been in trouble for anything before except being late for school," Angela Lowery, Hannah's cousin, told WYFF. "He wasn’t a daredevil at all. We even tried to get him to drive in a field and he wouldn’t even do that."Lowery said Hannah had been spending the night with friends when the incident happened."I think somebody needs to be held responsible for what happened," Lowery said.A school official at West Oak High, where Hannah was a ninth-grader, said the teen was a very popular student. Guidance counselors were made available to students who wanted to talk about Hannah's death.A memorial service at the Sandifer Funeral Home in Westminster is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m.

A Westminister police officer was placed on administrative leave after a pursuit that ended with a deadly crash early Friday morning.

Investigators said Jesse Logan Hannah, 14, of Seneca, was driving a car and had three teenage passengers.

Advertisement Related Content Family pleads for answers one month after deadly wreck

Chief Dean Awalt of the Westminster Police Department said the vehicle caught the attention of an officer when it went through a red light on Highway 123. Awalt said the officer attempted to pull the car over, but it kept going.

"The chase took place on (Highway) 24 until it hit right there near Eva Frank (Lane)," Awalt told WYFF. "We do not have a no-chase policy. We have a policy that gives them certain guidelines that officers have to follow."

Awalt said the officer was placed on administrative leave as an internal probe and an investigation by the South Carolina Highway Patrol continues.

Hannah's family said they have many questions about what happened because they do not believe the teenager would have attempted to drive someone else's car.

"This wasn’t the type of kid he was. He’s never been in trouble for anything before except being late for school," Angela Lowery, Hannah's cousin, told WYFF. "He wasn’t a daredevil at all. We even tried to get him to drive in a field and he wouldn’t even do that."

Lowery said Hannah had been spending the night with friends when the incident happened.

"I think somebody needs to be held responsible for what happened," Lowery said.

A school official at West Oak High, where Hannah was a ninth-grader, said the teen was a very popular student. Guidance counselors were made available to students who wanted to talk about Hannah's death.

A memorial service at the Sandifer Funeral Home in Westminster is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m.