A “Most Wanted” fugitive who was a suspect in a kidnapping and torture case led police on a chase, shooting at them along the way, and eventually shot himself inside his car Wednesday, police said.

Christopher Teter, 20, of Tulsa was pronounced dead at the scene.

He had fled when officers and Fugitive Task Force agents approached him at a QuikTrip store near Woodland Hills Mall about 1:30 p.m., officer Leland Ashley said.

Police said when they named Teter the Tulsa Police Department’s “Most Wanted” fugitive this week that he had four active drug cases in Tulsa County District Court.

They had not said at that time that they also believed that Teter and others had kidnapped a Tulsa man last month, then tortured him and abandoned him in woods in Rogers County.

Sgt. Dave Walker revealed those allegations after Teter died Wednesday.

Walker said another man, identified by police as Matthew Dean Kelly, was arrested Wednesday in connection with the kidnapping.

Kelly was jailed at noon on complaints of kidnapping, possession of a stolen vehicle and possession of a firearm while in the commission of a felony, according to Tulsa Jail records.

Walker said more arrests in the kidnapping case are expected.

Kimberly McGuire, who said she is Teter’s cousin, said Wednesday night that Teter “wasn’t a bad guy, just a kid on the wrong path.”

“The person that died (Wednesday) was not the person I grew up with,” McGuire said. “I grew up with an outgoing, funny, happy-go-lucky kid. (He was) always smiling and trying to make others smile, too.

“The person that caused all this mess today, the person who lost his life today was a meth addict, and a child at that. … We love him and will always remember him.”

After Teter fled from police at the QuikTrip on 71st Street, he led officers on a chase that ended when he drove his car onto the Yale Avenue median near 43rd Street and shot and killed himself with a shotgun about 2:10 p.m. after exchanging gunfire with police.

Multiple bullet holes were visible in the vehicle’s windshield.

Teter had fired at officers several times during the chase, but no one was struck, Ashley said.

Teter was the only occupant of the vehicle.

The first shots were fired by Teter in the 7800 block of East 65th Street, Ashley said.

Shots were fired again in the 2200 block of South Yale Avenue and then again near 41st Street and Yale Avenue, just north of where the pursuit ended.

Walker said officers began returning fire after Teter fired shots in the 2200 block of South Yale Avenue.

Officers blocked off Yale Avenue from 41st to 43rd streets until about 6 p.m., when the scene had been cleared.

Shoppers at the nearby Tulsa Promenade mall huddled together near police tape to watch the aftermath.

It’s not clear whether Teter was struck by a police officer’s bullet, Ashley said, noting that police would wait for the Medical Examiner’s Office to make that determination.

Walker said the initial investigation showed only wounds from the shotgun Teter used on himself.

Teter’s car struck a police vehicle during the chase in the 3800 block of South Yale Avenue, police said.

Ashley said police had not received reports of any civilian injuries or damage — which was lucky, he said, considering the dangerous nature of the pursuit as well as the hail of gunfire.

“Considering the location, which is heavily populated, and the time of day, we’re very fortunate no civilians or officers were injured,” he said.