Advertisement Suspect shot to death on I-5 identified Officer-involved shooting investigation closed interstate for hours Share Copy Link Copy

Interstate 5 in Stockton reopened Thursday morning after a police officer shot and killed a man sought on attempted homicide charges, police said.The southbound side of the interstate allowed traffic to start flowing back through the area around 11:15 a.m., after a several-hour closure that backed up cars all morning.Police officers were tracking the suspect, Robert Craig Perry, 43, from the San Jose area. Perry was wanted in connection with an attempted homicide in San Jose and on suspicion of domestic violence in Merced.Thursday evening, police released several more details on the morning's order of events and what led to the deadly shooting.Escalon police tried to stop the suspect first, as he was reportedly driving erratically, the Stockton Police Department said in a news release. When Perry refused to pull over, officers gave up on the pursuit.The CHP learned of the chase and spotted the suspect's vehicle at Farmington and Highway 99 a short time later, officers said. Again, Perry wouldn't yield -- so CHP officers followed him on northbound 99 to the Acampo area.Perry led the CHP on a high-speed chase, then turned around and got on southbound Highway 99. The CHP alerted Stockton police to the pursuit about 1:05 a.m. when Perry's car merged onto Hammer Lane.At that time, the CHP told Stockton officials Perry was considered armed and dangerous.Perry blew a tire but kept driving until his car would no longer run. He finally came to a stop on southbound I-5 between Alpine Avenue and Michigan Avenue, police said.Officers from the CHP and Stockton police pulled up behind Perry and called out to him, but he didn't respond. Investigators could see he was waving a knife from inside his vehicle, which prompted a sergeant to fire rubber baton rounds into Perry's driver's-side windows.Officers were just trying to get a better look inside the car and attempting to make Perry exit the vehicle, the news release said.The rubber baton rounds punched holes through the windows, but they didn't shatter, police said.Perry let a pit bull out of his car -- which officers secured in the back of their patrol car -- then he threw a lit firework from his vehicle, police said.Perry then started getting out of his car, but seemed to have changed his mind and got back inside. He did this several times until police sent over a K-9, which bit the suspect on his arm and yanked him from the vehicle.Officers approached, and Perry was punching the dog, trying to get away. When Perry pulled a broken butcher-type knife so close to investigators, Stockton police Officer Kirsten McClure fired her handgun at the suspect at least once -- and he was struck by a bullet.Police called paramedics to the scene, and brought Perry to a hospital, where he died a short time later.Perry's last known residence was in Santa Nella.He had two felony outstanding warrants out for his arrest. The suspect has an extensive history of narcotics and firearms arrests, police added.Officers found two other knives in Perry's car.McClure, who was hired in 2011, wasn't hurt in the shooting. She was placed on a three-day paid administrative leave. KCRA 3's Kevin Oliver and Mae Fesai contributed to this report.