By of the

Domestic violence can take many forms, even a drunken driving crash.

A judge saw a hit-and-run crash that killed one person and injured five others as a version of domestic-abuse homicide because the driver, Juan Rodriguez, "had no business being anywhere near" his victim, Shemika Spencer.

Spencer, 33, was a passenger in a Pontiac Aztek that Rodriguez was driving when it smashed nearly head-on into another car on the city's north side after bar time Dec. 8. Rodriguez, 19, of Milwaukee ran from the Aztek, which had rolled over, leaving Spencer and another passenger behind. Despite a restraining order Spencer had against Rodriguez, the two had been out drinking together, court records show.

Rodriguez told Milwaukee County Circuit Judge David Borowski that he thought the order had expired, or been lifted, and that he didn't know Spencer was hurt after the crash, in part because he was high on alcohol, cocaine and ecstasy.

In sentencing Rodriguez to a total of 25 years in prison on several different counts, Borowski called him a "menace to society" and declared Rodriguez's decision to leave his longtime girlfriend "to die in the street" to be "the worst of your awful behavior" that warranted extra punishment.

In an emotional, rambling statement to Borowski, Rodriguez said he was speeding toward a police station because he had been shot at as they left a bar. He said he was so high he didn't realize police squads were trying to stop him.

"I really do apologize," he said. "It was a total accident, your honor."

Rodriguez also talked about how much he loved Spencer, and how he "manned up" and turned himself in after days of suicidal thinking. He also shared a dream he said proved Spencer had forgiven him.

"I was sitting alone in the funeral home when she sat up in the casket and reached her arms out to me," Rodriguez said.

Rodriguez, who didn't have a driver's license, was speeding, without his headlights on, and had failed to pull over when police briefly pursued him, when he crashed into a Ford Escort, then rolled the Aztek. The back seat passenger in the Aztek suffered a broken leg. Four people in the Escort also suffered serious injuries, including a man who has endured about 100 stitches to his face and head.

Rodriguez had pleaded guilty to homicide by negligent operation of a motor vehicle, hit-and-run involving death, and two counts of hit-and-run involving great bodily injury. Borowski sentenced him to consecutive prison terms of five, 10, five and three years, respectively, plus 17 years of extended supervision.

Rodriguez also pleaded guilty to child abuse and battery to an injunction petitioner, two charges from an October incident in which he struck Spencer and her 14-year-old daughter when she tried to stop him. He was sentenced to a year in prison and a year of extended supervision on each of those counts, for a total prison term of 25 years.

Spencer had first obtained a restraining order against Rodriguez in 2012 that was in effect until 2016.