Police Sunday identified the dead man as 20-year-old Darryl Dookhran, who allegedly shot a Boston officer in the arm before being gunned down. Dookhran’s record included multiple gun charges and as a juvenile he was kicked out of two high schools for violent gang-related attacks, including stabbing a rival gang member.

A man killed in a shootout with Boston police Saturday had a lengthy criminal record for gang-related violence and had just completed a prison sentence for bringing a high-velocity semiautomatic weapon into a community college classroom.

Darryl Dookhran, 20 years old, allegedly shot a Boston police officer in the arm before being gunned down.

Long known by police for being associated with a Boston street gang, Dookhran and 26-year-old Dorchester resident Christopher Murrain were stopped by two plainclothes officers of a youth violence strike force near Geneva Avenue Saturday afternoon. According to police, Murrain shoved one of the officers and the pair took off running. Dookhran then allegedly turned and fired on the officers with a semiautomatic handgun, hitting one in the arm. The officers returned fire, killing Dookhran.

Get Breaking News Alerts Stay up-to-date with important news developments, delivered right to your inbox. Enter Email Sign Up

Murrain was arrested at the scene and will be charged with assault and battery on a police officer in Dorchester District Court on Monday, police spokeswoman Nicole Grant said. A spokesman for the Suffolk district attorney said it would investigate the shooting, as it does all shootings involving a Boston police officer.

Advertisement

The wounded officer has not been identified by police. He was in stable condition at Boston Medical Center on Sunday, Grant said, and is expected to recover.

Dookhran was sentenced to prison in 2012 for multiple gun possession and other charges related to an incident in which he brought a loaded Intratec AB-10 semiautomatic 9mm handgun to a classroom at Massachusetts Bay Community College in Wellesley, where he was a student.

At the time, police told the Globe that Dookhran was a suspected member of the Favre Street Mobb gang, which operates in the Mattapan-Dorchester area.

Advertisement

A small shrine was briefly erected Sunday in an empty lot behind a market on Geneva Avenue, steps from where Dookhran was killed. The memorial consisted of several lit candles, stuffed animals, a bronze angel figurine, an empty plastic nip of Bacardi rum, and the national flag of Trinidad and Tobago. By early afternoon, the items had been removed.

In the 2011 incident at MassBay, a classmate spotted the handle of a gun protruding from Dookhran’s pocket and alerted a professor who then notified the college’s public safety office and the Wellesley Police Department. Dookhran was taking his first classes at the school.

Authorities spent nine days trying to track Dookhran at school, public transit stations, and in his Dorchester neighborhood. He was arrested while standing in line at the college registrar’s office.

During a search, police said Dookhran struggled and kicked at detectives. In his book bag, police found the gun which was loaded with an illegal high-capacity magazine and had a bullet in the chamber, according to Globe and police reports. He was 18 at the time.

A Wellesley officer testifying at a dangerousness hearing after Dookhran’s arrest said his record as a juvenile included convictions for assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, unarmed robbery, and assault with a firearm, according to a Globe report.

In April 2012, Dookhran was found guilty in Norfolk Superior Court of eight charges related to the MassBay incident. He was sentenced to 2½ years and one day in prison, according to Peggie Krippendorf, a spokeswoman for Norfolk District Attorney Michael W. Morrissey.

Advertisement

Dookhran was released on June 11, 2013, from MCI Concord, Krippendorf said.

It was not immediately clear if Dookhran’s sentence credited him for time served between his arrest in February 2011 and his conviction.

The professor of the MassBay class Dookhran attended told the Globe in June 2011 that Dookhran was, “a kid who was trying to do something better with himself and was still in between two worlds.”

Dookhran’s mother, Yvette Dookhran, also spoke out at the time, telling the Globe Dookhran carried a gun for self-defense and that, “his intentions were not to go after students, because he is not that kind of person.”

Prior to the MassBay incident, Dookhran had been kicked out of two Boston high schools before earning his GED while in custody.

While a sophomore at the Engineering School in Hyde Park, he stabbed a rival gang member off campus and was placed in Department of Youth Services custody.

After his release, the Engineering School would not readmit him, so he enrolled at Brighton High School for the 2009 school year. However, he was expelled less than six months later after a gang-related fight in a school bathroom.

Meanwhile, sympathy and gratitude for the wounded officer poured in from officials, including outgoing Mayor Thomas M. Menino and Mayor-elect Martin J. Walsh.

Walsh stopped by Boston Medical Center to visit the wounded officer, according to his spokeswoman Kate Norton. Walsh thanked the officer and others in his gang violence unit for their service, Norton said, and was relieved to learn the officer was expected to recover.

Advertisement

Dan Adams can be reached at daniel.adams@globe.com. Find him on Twitter at @DanielAdams86.