INDIANOLA, Iowa (AP) -- A 76-year-old man shot to death after pulling a gun on a police officer was a Korean War veteran with poor eyesight, failing health and may have suffered from dementia, his daughter said.

Robert H. Clingenpeel died after being shot by police officer Clair ``Tom'' Thompson Sunday night.

Thompson was responding to Clingenpeel's apartment, where a 911 call had been made at 8:36 p.m.

Clingenpeel answered the door with a handgun, which he pointed at Thompson, prompting the officer to fire, said Police Chief Steve Bonnett.

Thompson fired two shots, both of which struck Clingenpeel in the chest, Bonnett said. Clingenpeel died before a helicopter ambulance could leave Indianola for a Des Moines hospital, authorities said.

Bonnett would not disclose the caliber of the weapon Clingenpeel held.

Clingenpeel's daughter told police her father recently had sought medical attention for dementia or Alzheimer's disease, Bonnett said. The daughter, who investigators said lives in the Des Moines area, asked not to be identified until after the holidays.

Neighbors said Clingenpeel was a retired John Deere employee and a Korean War veteran with poor eyesight and failing health.

``He was old and he was depressed,'' said Cordell Musser, who also lived in the apartment building. ``He couldn't see. People had to take him to eat and to do his laundry.''

Bonner said Indianola police had no dealings with Clingenpeel before Sunday.

Chad Rousch, who lives in the apartment next to Clingenpeel, said he was awakened Sunday night by the sound of a gunshot. He said he saw a shaken police officer come out of Clingenpeel's apartment.

``He walked onto the lawn, went down on one knee, then began throwing up,'' Rousch said.

Bonnett said Thompson has been placed on administrative leave. The 40-year-old officer has been offered counseling.

``We are going to do everything we possibly can to help him get through this,'' Bonnett said. ``He has been a police officer for 15 years. He has had a sterling career.''

The investigation into the first fatal shooting by an Indianola police officer in at least 20 years is being conducted by Indianola police, the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation and the Warren County Attorney's Office.

County Attorney Kevin Parker said he will review the shooting and decide whether to refer the case to a grant jury.