Advertisement Death in Monroeville police-involved shooting ruled suicide Paul Slimick was shot outside home of ex-girlfriend's boyfriend on East Patty Lane Share Copy Link Copy

The death of a suspect in a police-involved shooting in a residential area of Monroeville has been ruled a suicide.Paul Slimick died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, not from the police gunfire, according to the findings of the Allegheny County Medical Examiner's Office.County detectives, who investigated the case, said the suspect pointed a gun toward the officer outside a home on East Patty Lane at about 10 p.m. Dec. 9, and the officer opened fire.Police sources close to the investigation said Slimick, 26, of Freeport, was an ex-boyfriend of the homeowner's current girlfriend."It was a home invasion burglary. The owner of the home was not injured, was able to escape from the home and call 911," Lt. Andrew Schurman said.Sources close to the investigation provided the following information:- The homeowner was outside the house, putting up Christmas lights, when a man approached him and asked for a ride. The homeowner asked "Where to?" and the man pulled out a gun and said, "You're coming with me," and led him inside the house.- The gunman held the homeowner inside for some time before the owner managed to defuse the situation enough to convince the gunman to allow him to go to the basement, where the owner was able to flee and call 911.- An officer responded to the call, which came in as a burglary, and got there quickly before any backup had arrived. The suspect came outside, where the officer ordered him to give up, but he went inside again and then came back out. The officer again gave commands, and the man started firing, so the officer took cover behind a utility pole and returned fire, hitting the suspect five times.The officer who fired his gun has not been publicly identified. He was placed on administrative leave, as per policy, while the district attorney reviews the case.The D.A.'s office released this statement: "We've been briefed on the matter and have discussed with county police what steps we would like them to take to complete the investigation."Nobody answered the door at an address where the Monroeville homeowner was believed to be staying last Tuesday. A knock at the Slimick's family's home went unanswered as well.The day after the shooting, neighbors on East Patty Drive, were relieved to hear the home invasion was not random."It makes me feel like no one is just going to come around here and burglarize everybody," said a neighbor who did not want to be identified.