ALBUQUERQUE (KRQE) – When Albuquerque Police released lapel video from a 2013 fatal shooting, officers said they were in danger, and opened fire. Assault suspect, Andy Snider, had a hammer in hand when he was shot and killed by an APD officer.

Now, Snider’s family has filed a wrongful death lawsuit, claiming police skewed the facts to justify the shooting. Attorney Matthew Garcia, representing Snider’s family, points to what happened before the shooting, and claims the Department of Justice report on APD helps prove their case.

Lapel video from that night shows officers repeatedly give commands for Snider to, “get your hands out of your pocket, turn around and put your hands on top of your head!”

“In that less than one minute of time, they made no attempt to deescalate the situation, they make no attempt at crisis management,” Garcia told News 13.

The wrongful death lawsuit is against APD officers Hector Marquez, Nathan Cadroy-Croteau, and the City of Albuquerque. The lawsuit cites DOJ findings that “officers too often use deadly force,” and lack training when dealing with mentally ill or those in crisis.

“And that’s clearly the situation we have here,” Garcia argued. “Mr. Snider is saying things like, ‘I’m Yahweh,’ you know, he’s clearly having some mental distress and mental health issues.”

That night, police were looking for an assault suspect after someone called 9-1-1 from the 7-Eleven on Central.

Snider ignored repeated commands from officers, and ran from police. The officers chased him down an alley.

That’s when officer Cadroy raised a beanbag shotgun as Snider ran toward them. “Bean bag him, bean bag!” An officer is heard giving commands, “hands up, hands up, hands up, get down!”

Officer Marquez fired the fatal shot as Snider continued running.

Then Interim APD Chief Allen Banks showed a still image from the officers’ lapel video of Snider holding a hammer over his head, and said officers feared for their safety when shots were fired.

Garcia argues police “slanted the facts to justify their actions,” and claims Snider didn’t threaten officers directly with the hammer before officer Marquez shot him.

“To my knowledge officers never saw Mr. Snider actually commit any crime,” said Garcia. “He never swings at them, he never verbally says ‘I’m gonna hit you with a hammer.'”

Snider does have a lengthy criminal past. That night, police said it all started when a drug deal for meth went bad, and Snider pulled out the hammer.

The two officers in this case are still on active duty.

Snider’s family attorney said Snider suffered from mental illness and substance abuse.

The city would not comment pending litigation. The District Attorney’s Office said they’re still reviewing this case to determine if there exists probable cause to present the case to a preliminary hearing or a grand jury.