Jona Ison

Reporter

CHILLICOTHE - The family of a woman killed by a Ross County Sheriff's Office sergeant during a 2013 search warrant will receive $156,250.

Half of the money will be split amongst Krystal Barrows' three children while the other half goes to bills — $45,000 for attorney fees and about $33,208 to pay Medicaid's subrogation claim, according to records obtained via a public records request to lawyers for the Ross County Sheriff's Office.

The settlement was signed March 2 and, subsequently, the federal wrongful death suit, which was filed in November 2014, was dismissed on March 17.

Barrows, 35, was at 467 U.S. 23, Waverly, on Dec. 11, 2013, when the U.S. 23 Major Crimes Task Force and Ross County Sheriff's Office executed a search warrant for suspected drug trafficking and stolen goods. As deputies entered the home, then Sgt. Brett McKnight inadvertently fired a round from his gun which went into the doorframe of the trailer and ultimately struck Barrows in the head, according to investigative reports of the incident. Barrows died in a Columbus hospital the following day.

McKnight and the sheriff's office were named in the wrongful death suit along with Sheriff George Lavender and the County Risk Sharing Authority of Ohio. According to the settlement, all parties maintained denial of any liability for Barrows' death.

After the shooting, McKnight was initially placed on paid administrative leave but ultimately was not disciplined or charged criminally regarding Barrows' death. The Ohio Attorney General's Office handled the investigation and presented the case to a grand jury, which declined to indict him in February 2015.

The sheriff's office had previously implied any internal decisions regarding McKnight, such as whether he would return to the tactical team, were on hold until the lawsuit was over. However, McKnight resigned from the sheriff's office in May 2016 after being charged with impaired driving as a result of an off-duty crash. In September, he pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of physical control. He was fined $375, his license was suspended, and was ordered to pay $715 in costs and complete a driver's intervention program, according to online court records.