Maddy Lauria maddy.lauria@doverpost.com @Milford_Maddy

A Milford man shot by a Milford patrol officer on Saturday, Dec. 14 during a stand-off on Milford-Harrington Highway died from multiple gunshot wounds Monday evening.

Milford resident Roy D. Rhodes, 58, was shot by a responding Milford Police Department patrolman, 39-year-old Sgt. Robert S. Young, following an incident that allegedly provoked Rhodes to point a handgun at both Young and another driver, according to Delaware State Police spokesman Sgt. Paul Shavack.

An initial investigation by Delaware State Police revealed that Rhodes was operating a 1998 Lincoln Town Car, driving westbound on Milford-Harrington Highway around 4 p.m. Saturday, Dec. 14 when he crossed into the eastbound lane and into the path of an oncoming car, Shavack said.

The eastbound vehicle swerved to avoid a collision, but Rhodes' Lincoln traveled off the roadway, through several bushes and came to rest in a private driveway in the 600 block of the Milford-Harrington Highway, Shavack said.

The driver of the eastbound vehicle turned around to check on Rhodes, and as he approached the Lincoln, saw Rhodes sitting in the driver's seat holding a knife to his throat. The driver was able to reach through the window and disarm Rhodes, but Rhodes became agitated and combative, and took a handgun from the car's center console, Shavack said.

Rhodes got out of the Lincoln with the handgun just as Young arrived at the scene, and ignored several orders from Young to put the gun down, Shavack said.

After Rhodes raised the gun toward the officer, Young fired several rounds, hitting Rhodes in the upper body and lower extremity, Shavack said.

Both the knife and the handgun were recovered at the scene.

Rhodes was taken by ambulance to Bayhealth-Milford Memorial Hospital where he was admitted in critical condition. Rhodes was in the custody of troopers at the hospital and faced charges of aggravated menacing and possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony before succumbing to his injuries, Shavack said.

There were no reported injuries to bystanders or the Milford officer during this incident.

Young is an 18-year veteran of the Milford Police Department. He has been placed on administrative duty as per departmental policy pending the outcome of the investigation.

The Delaware State Police Homicide Unit responded to the scene and is conducting the investigation at the request of the Milford Police Department. This is an active investigation with Detectives continuing their investigation, evidence processing and interviews.

Milford-Harrington Highway between Canterbury and Williamsville Roads was closed to traffic for approximately three hours while the incident was investigated and processed.