Los Angeles County prosecutors have declined to file charges against a sheriff’s deputy whose patrol vehicle struck an SUV in Palmdale, killing two passengers, despite his actions being found “grossly negligent” by the California Highway Patrol.

Deputy Kamal Jannah, a 15-year department veteran at the time, had received a call for assistance and was driving his Ford Crown Victoria when it struck the Ford Explorer at a four-stop intersection at East Avenue R and 17th Street East on Dec. 14, 2013. Sarah Paynter, 20, of Van Nuys and her boyfriend, Robert Delgadillo, 31, of Palmdale were ejected from the Ford Explorer and pronounced dead at the scene. The deputy and the driver of the SUV sustained minor injuries, authorities said.

The District Attorney’s Office said in a letter released Wednesday that it was too late for them to file a misdemeanor vehicular manslaughter charge against the deputy, leaving prosecutors with the only option of filing a charge of gross vehicular manslaughter.

“The people cannot prove beyond a reasonable doubt that (Deputy) Kamal Jannah committed the crime of gross vehicular manslaughter,” prosecutors stated in the letter. “As such, we decline to initiate criminal proceedings against him.”

• DOCUMENT: L.A. County District Attorney declines to file charges against Sheriff’s deputy Kamal Jannah

The California Highway Patrol found in its report submitted to the D.A.’s office that the deputy was “grossly negligent” by driving at a speed that topped 80 miles per hour seconds before the collision without using his lights or siren.

“A reasonable person would have known that traveling at 86 miles per hour on a 50 mile-per-hour speed zone would be acting in a way that would create risk,” according to the CHP report.

While Jannah was driving at an excessive speed without his lights or siren, “he was responding to a call for assistance and therefore engaged in the performance of his duties as a peace officer,” according to the D.A.’s letter.

While the call did not require a Code 3 response, it appeared from the dispatch communications that a volunteer unit was involved in a domestic violence incident and “therefore the call was possibly urgent.” And though Jannah was driving more than 30 miles over the speed limit, “without something more than the speeding violation, there is insufficient evidence to prove that Jannah did something” more to justify a gross negligence finding, the letter stated.

Attorney Humberto Guizar, who is representing Paynter’s family in a wrongful death lawsuit filed last year, said the decision demonstrates “a clear double standard” in the application of the law.

“If it was a civilian, he would have been arrested and charged with manslaughter,” he said. “In my opinion, the D.A.’s office is acting cowardly. … They should leave the decision of whether or not there was negligence to a jury.”

Meanwhile, a misdemeanor vehicular manslaughter charge had to be filed within one year after the commission of the crime, prosecutors said. The case had to be brought by law enforcement officials to the D.A.’s office no later than Dec. 14, 2014, one year from the date of the collision. But the matter was first presented to the D.A.’s Justice System Integrity Division for filing consideration on Feb. 12, 2015, after the statute of limitations had expired, the D.A.’s letter stated.

It was not immediately clear Wednesday when the CHP’s Multi-Disciplinary Accident Investigation Team had concluded its report. The team did not immediately respond to an inquiry Wednesday afternoon.

“That’s the million-dollar question … when was the MAIT investigation completed?” said Gregory Caplan, a Chatsworth-based criminal defense attorney and former deputy district attorney. Prosecutors “seem to gloss over the fact that it was first presented to them beyond the statute of limitations. Who was watching out for that?”

Shortly before the collision, Jannah had thought the SUV had stopped and had tried to go around the vehicle, according to prosecutors.

Jannah was placed on desk duty at the Palmdale Sheriff’s station following the incident and remains in a “non-driving” position, a sheriff’s spokeswoman said Wednesday.