(Photo credit: Brittany Dionne)

Cimarron Lamb, 33, died Thursday after being shot by Phenix City police. (Photo source: Phenix City Police Department)

PCPD carry rifles searching for second suspect.

Cudarion Demarco Long.

PHENIX CITY, AL (WTVM) - A Phenix City man was shot to death by Phenix City police officers while allegedly trying to run from the scene of a crime.

Cimarron Lamb, 33, was shot to death while on 16th Avenue in Phenix City, said Captain Frank Ivey of the Phenix City Police Department.

Phenix City Police Chief Ray Smith said Lamb and Cudarion Long, 19, tried to rob someone at gunpoint. Long was arrested for first degree robbery.

A neighbor who lives near 16th Avenue in Phenix City said he was sleeping in and woke up to gun shots and complete chaos. He asked we not reveal his identity for safety reasons.

"I heard three gunshots it sounded like a pistol, bam, bam, bam! At least two ladies, maybe three they just started screaming," the man said.

"When officers were en route to the call they noticed a vehicle leaving the crime scene at a high rate of speeding," PCPD Chief Ray Smith said.

Smith told us the short chase went through back roads and residential streets.

Smith said the suspects jumped from the car and took off running. Police caught up with Lamb on 16th Ave.

"He failed to comply with some orders and there were some shots exchanged and the suspect was shot," Chief Smith claimed.

Lamb was pronounced dead around noon at Midtown Medical Center.

Chief Smith could not confirm whether or not Lamb shot at police or if he had a gun on him.

"Who shot [who] and what shot what, we don't know," Smith reported.

"Lamb was out on bond for a previous robbery charge and had an outstanding fugitive from justice warrant," reported Cpt. Ivey.

Phenix City police officers combed the area carrying assault rifles, for over an hour, searching for the second suspect.

He's reportedly wearing a brown jacket or black sweatshirt. The unknown man is still on the run.

Chief Smith said the attempted robbery victim was unharmed and no items were stolen.

The Alabama Bureau of Investigation was called in to conduct the investigation of the shooting. The Phenix City Police officers that were involved are on administrative leave with pay.

Copyright 2013 WTVM. All rights reserved.