Joel Bravard was wanted for questioning in connection with Michelle Russell death

Kansas City Police say the death of a man involved in a shootout with police died as the result of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Kansas City Police say the Jackson County Medical Examiner determined Joel Bravard, 26, died by suicide.Bravard was involved in a shootout with police back on Dec. 19 after authorities arrived at a home on North Lawndale Ave. to serve an arrest warrant out of Platte County. Someone in the home opened fire, striking a tactical officer in the leg.Officers returned fire and took cover until the injured officer could be removed from the area. When the tactical team entered into the home they found Bravard suffering from a life-threatening gunshot wound. He was taken to a local hospital where he died several days later.In addition to the Platte Co. warrant, Bravard was also wanted in connection with the November shooting death of Michelle Russell. Russell's body was found in a car in Independence back in November, however, police believe she may have been shot at a motel near I-29 and Barry Rd. The medical examiner's office has ruled Bravard's death a suicide. The officer who was injured during the shootout, a 15-year veteran of the police force, suffered minor injuries.

Kansas City Police say the death of a man involved in a shootout with police died as the result of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.



Kansas City Police say the Jackson County Medical Examiner determined Joel Bravard, 26, died by suicide.



Advertisement Related Content Man injured in shootout with KC Police has died

Bravard was involved in a shootout with police back on Dec. 19 after authorities arrived at a home on North Lawndale Ave. to serve an arrest warrant out of Platte County. Someone in the home opened fire, striking a tactical officer in the leg.

Officers returned fire and took cover until the injured officer could be removed from the area. When the tactical team entered into the home they found Bravard suffering from a life-threatening gunshot wound. He was taken to a local hospital where he died several days later.

In addition to the Platte Co. warrant, Bravard was also wanted in connection with the November shooting death of Michelle Russell.

Russell's body was found in a car in Independence back in November, however, police believe she may have been shot at a motel near I-29 and Barry Rd.

The medical examiner's office has ruled Bravard's death a suicide.

The officer who was injured during the shootout, a 15-year veteran of the police force, suffered minor injuries.