By John Tuohy

john.tuohy@indystar.com

A 25-year-old man wanted on arrest warrants held police at bay for six hours at a Northwestside apartment complex before surrendering without incident Thursday afternoon.

It was the third time in two days Indianapolis police SWAT officers were called to a home in which a man barricaded himself.

Police said Antwon Stott, 25, was able to withstand tear gas grenades by fleeing to an attic in the two story unit at the Creekwood Apartments near Michigan Road and 73rd Street.

From there he made his way into the attic of a neighboring apartment and down into the unit. A man and a baby were in the home, and Stott ordered them to keep quiet, police said.

Stott gave himself up at 2:20 p.m. Police found a rifle in the attic and do not think he threatened the neighbors with it. But he could still face charges of criminal confinement and residential entry.

Northwest Distinct Indianapolis Metropolitan police officers had gone to the apartment to serve Stott warrants on charges of aggravated assault, dealing cocaine and firearms violations. But when officers got there, Stott refused to come out. Two people who had been inside with him told police Stott said he had a gun and wasn't coming out.

The SWAT team was called, and negotiators tried to talk to Stott. They had to use loudspeakers to plead with him, though, because they could not get him on the telephone, IMPD Officer Christopher Wilburn said.

Stott's girlfriend and mother refused to try to talk Stott into surrendering, Wilburn said.

"I believe they were upset they came to serve warrants on him," Wilburn said. Police cars and SWAT trucks lined a large swath of the complex, and police restricted the movements of residents around the apartment in which Stott was holed up.

The incident was the third in two days requiring a SWAT team deployment.

On Wednesday, the SWAT team was called out twice, but one incident ended in a fatal shooting before the team arrived.

Duane Slentz, 41, was shot and killed by a police officer after he cocked a rifle during a short standoff, police said.

IMPD Lt. Chris Bailey said Slentz led officers in a car chase from Brookside Park to his home on the 3800 block of South Franklin Road after they stopped him. Slentz ran inside the house and told police through the door he had a gun. Police backed off and talked to Slentz through an open back window, trying to persuade him to surrender, Bailey said.

Officers then heard "the racking motion" of a long gun and might have seen Slentz with the gun through the window, Bailey said. An officer at the scene fired a single fatal shot. Police said they recovered a rifle at the scene.

Police said Slentz, who had two prior drunken driving arrests, smelled of alcohol when they stopped him.

In the last arrest in 2005, police found a shotgun and a Winchester rifle in Slentz's pickup, police records show.

Bailey did not identify the officer who fired the shot but said he was on desk duty until a police psychologist clears him to go back to work.

The shooting is being investigated by the IMPD homicide unit and will automatically be reviewed by a Marion County grand jury. It will also be investigated by the Internal Affairs office and the IMPD Firearms Review Board.

The third SWAT call-out of the last two days ended peacefully.

Police said a man had been arguing with a woman in the 900 block of Division Street at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday and had threatened to kill her.

Police used loudspeakers to urge the man to surrender and he did so about two hours later. Police said the man could face charges that he violated a protective order and felony intimidation.

Call reporter John Tuohy at 444-2762 and follow on Twitter @john_tuohy.