Christian D. Fairbank was still wearing a bracelet from a recent stint in jail Wednesday night when he rammed a stolen car into a Seattle police cruiser, then tried to do it again during a 10-minute pursuit that ended when he crashed the car and was fatally injured, police said.

The 38-year-old with a long criminal record drove the Chrysler Concord so recklessly through residential streets that the left front tire came off. Yet Fairbank kept speeding for more than a mile after that, sparks flying from the metal wheel rim, officers said.

Police say Fairbank was so set on escaping that he raced straight through a red light across busy Broadway. A block later, the car snapped a thick power pole and flipped onto its roof, throwing Fairbank halfway out and crushing him.

Yesterday, after the second fatal police chase in King County this month, police said Fairbank should have been pursued to stop him from killing or injuring someone.

"This guy twice attempted to assault the officer with his vehicle," police spokesman Clem Benton said. "That's a felony, not to mention the disregard for the officers. He could have easily hit a person, a pedestrian, let alone another vehicle."

The King County medical examiner's staff said Fairbank died of crushing injuries about 1 a.m. yesterday at Harborview Medical Center, where he was rushed after the 10:46 p.m. crash at Union and Seneca streets on Capitol Hill.

Fairbank had a long history of petty crime and driving offenses. His license had been suspended, and he was wanted by Bainbridge Island police for alleged drunken driving.

On Christmas Eve, he was released from the King County Jail after spending the night on suspicion of possessing stolen property, jail records show. Those records also show Fairbank was a regular at the jail, serving time many times a year at least since 1992.

But at 10:36 p.m. Wednesday, Fairbank was behind the wheel of the stolen Concord in the parking lot of a gas station at 17th Avenue and East Madison Street. Two men police believe helped him steal the car, a 22-year-old Seattle man and a 22-year-old Tacoma man, were standing outside the car arguing, police said.

Gang-unit Detective Miko Santiago, a nine-year veteran, rolled up toward the gas station and noticed that the two young men suddenly turned away when they saw his unmarked cruiser. Suspicious, Santiago checked on the Chrysler's license-plate number, found the car had been stolen, pulled into the station to block the car and called for backup.

As Santiago stood in the lot, the two men heard backup police nearing and shouted to Fairbank, "Go, go, go!" according to police.

Santiago drew his pistol, but Fairbank ignored him, police said. He rammed Santiago's cruiser and then sped away.

Santiago followed, but lost sight of the stolen car for a time before a bystander outside Garfield High School on 23rd Avenue flagged the detective down and pointed out Fairbank in the parking lot behind the school. But Fairbank gunned his car straight at Santiago's, police said. The detective barely got out of the way.

After miles of a winding chase, a tire blew off Fairbank's car at 34th Avenue East and East John Street. Sparks flew.

At Broadway and Union, Fairbank sped through a red light. Santiago wouldn't take that risk, police said. He slowed, made sure the intersection was clear, and then resumed the chase.

But it was already over, police said. Santiago and other officers rolled up to find the smoking, upended Chrysler, with Fairbanks pinned underneath.

His death comes amid continuing debate over police chases.

This week, 21-year-old Michelle Gunderson was charged with second-degree murder in the deaths of Dick and Mary Lou Jones in SeaTac. Prosecutors say Gunderson was fleeing Kent police in a stolen car when she crashed into the Joneses' car.

Seattle police are tightening the rules of police chases to eliminate chasing people suspected of nonviolent offenses. But even if the new rules were in place, police said, officers still would have gone after Fairbank.

"Obviously, he posed a very big threat to society itself," said Scott Moss, another police spokesman. "Regardless of what he was initially wanted for, that all changed when he attempted to run over the officers."

Ian Ith can be reached at 206- 464-2109 or iith@seattletimes.com.