Advertisement Woman killed after police chase that ended in gunfire Police: Woman rammed officers' car, tried to run over officers Share Copy Link Copy

Authorities said a woman was killed following a police chase that ended with gunfire in Anderson on Friday night.Lt. Tony Tilley of Anderson Police Department said officers responded to a call about a shoplifter at the Kohl’s on Clemson Boulevard.Police said officers put up blue lights trying to stop the suspect, but she took off and a chase began.The chase ended in the Appleton Street area. According to police, two officers in a patrol car stopped her and they were outside their vehicle, then a passenger with McDowell got out and ran, but was later arrested. Authorities said another police car was behind McDowell, which she backed into, then she drove toward the officers outside their vehicle in front of her."We had a couple of officers who had already gotten out of their car. The suspect then turned the car toward them and tried to run them down and they responded with gunfire," Tilley said.The driver was killed.Coroner Greg Shore identified the driver as Sharon McDowell, 49, of Anderson."I don’t justify her wrongdoing. What she did was wrong, but that does not justify them chasing her down killing her like a dog," McDowell's mother, Annie, said."If the police that kill her can look me in the face and tell me that he had to kill her, he had no other choice, and give me a reason why he gunned her down like he did it would make me feel better. But, right now I need some answers," Annie McDowell said.SLED is now investigating what happened and told WYFF News 4 it will not be making any specific comments while the investigation is underway. Meanwhile, the two officers involved, Derrall Foster and Doug Partain are on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, according to police."For them to think I’m just going to let them to sweep this under the rug, it’s no way. No way. I can’t do it ," Annie McDowell said.An autopsy is set for Sunday.