Evanston police announced today they believe the man police shot and killed this week after a downtown bank robbery also is responsible for murdering two Evanston brothers in the basement of their tobacco shop this July.

Authorities said Kevin Ross, 29, of Evanston, was shot and killed Monday outside Bennison's Bakery near Maple Avenue and Davis Street, in a confrontation after the robbery of a nearby bank.

Advertisement

Evanston police said Ross robbed a Chase bank branch at 901 Grove Street near the city's police headquarters. Police said in a release to the media that a teller gave police a description of the robber and Ross was seen a short time later walking on Grove Street.

Police said officers shot Ross after he refused orders to drop his gun.

Advertisement

Investigators said today they've also connected Ross to the murder of Mobeen and Azim Hakeem, two Evanston brothers shot multiple times inside their family business, Evanston Pipe & Tobacco, 923 Davis Street.

Cmdr. Jay Parrott said in a news release that a storage locker in Ross' home contained Mobeen Hakeem's identification and Azim Hakeem's Social Security card.

Investigators also found an unusual brand of .22-caliber shell casing in Ross' home that was consistent with the casings found at homicide scene, Parrott said. Police also found a receipt from May 2013 showing Ross bought a cigar from the tobacco shop, suggesting he'd been in the shop before the killings, Parrott said.

Parrott said investigators also retrieved an assault rifle and eventually determined that Ross bought a .22-caliber semiautomatic pistol – the same type of weapon believed to have been used in the killings – at a Chicago area gun store in June 2013. Police are trying to find that gun, which could have been resold, Parrott said.

Ross had no prior arrests known to local police and had a valid Firearm Owner Identification Card, Parrott said. Ross lived for a short time in Florida, Parrott said, and the FBI is helping with the effort to determine if he might have committed any crimes outside Illinois.

Investigators have his computer and are analyzing it for leads and a possible motive for the murders, Parrott said.

The brothers' uncle, Qudrat Syed, learned of the possible connection when reached by phone today. He said he was told his sister, the brothers' mother, was heading to Evanston police headquarters today for some reason, but he was not sure why.

"It's good that police have solved this issue," said Syed, 57. "This is good news."

Advertisement

But, he added, it would likely do little to ease the family's heartbreak.

The brothers' mother, Mahjabeen Hakeem, visits weekly the cemetery where her sons are buried, Syed said. She is also taking care of her husband, who is wheelchair-bound with several physical issues.

"She is going through hell," Syed said. "You don't understand losing two grown-up kids. I'm having difficulty every night when I go to bed getting sleep. Imagine how much is going on her."

Police found the brothers, 34 and 38 years old, shot to death in late July in the basement of the tobacco shop, located just steps from where Ross was gunned down by police.

Initially, police did not classify the brothers' deaths as murders, saying early evidence did not point to a robbery and did not lead them to a particular suspect still being at large.

About a week later, though, police began saying the two were killed. While it appeared nothing was taken from the store, according to authorities, the brothers' wallets could not be found.

Advertisement

The double murder shocked family and friends, who described the brothers as kind men.

Family members said Mobeen Hakeem, the younger of the brothers, was autistic.

"He kept to himself. He never bothered or talked to anybody," the men's sister, Farheen Hakeem, said in October. "He did his own thing."

According to federal authorities, Ross also is suspected in connection with four other bank robberies, including the Sept. 6 robbery of the same Chase Bank branch in Evanston that was robbed this week. Authorities also suspect him in connection of the robberies of a TCF Bank branch at 5343 N. Broadway St. in Chicago on Oct. 2 and Dec. 5 of this year, and a TCF Bank branch at 4355 N. Sheridan Road in Chicago on Dec. 12.

Nicole Williams, who said she lived near Ross and went to high school with the victims, said she was "flabbergasted" to hear Ross had been named a suspect in the double murder.

"It's totally not anything even his wife would've even suspected," said Williams, a 37-year-old hospital operator. "I couldn't even see him with a ... gun."

Advertisement

Williams and her mother Beverly Usry, who also lived near Ross, said he had suffered from Crohn's disease since he was 12 years old.

Usry, a 60-year-old homemaker, said Ross had "limited mobility" due to the illness and had gotten out of the hospital for a surgery earlier this month.

But both Williams and Usry said the last time they talked to him, Ross expressed frustration with the medical treatment he was receiving and had not found the relief he was looking for.

The neighbors said he seemed like an unlikely suspect.

"In my mind, it's just hard for me to grasp that," Usry said.

Williams described Ross as a "normal neighbor," baking brownies and cookies for her children.

Advertisement

Ross married about a year and a half ago, Williams said.

jbullington@tribune.com

dhinkel@tribune.com

psvitek@tribune.com