The Times-Union

A man wanted in Jacksonville on a charge of murder died in the Miami area after fleeing from a routine police stop and crashing.

An initial report that the crash occurred during a police chase was incorrect, according to Miami-Dade police.

Andrew Jackson Carter, 22, was accused of killing 21-year-old Craig James Brown on Sunday. Tuesday morning the Sheriff's Office identified Carter as a suspect.

Police said the shooter and Brown knew each other and had been arguing. Brown was shot multiple times while sitting in a car in the 6000 block of Cranberry Lane. He drove about a half-block crashing into mailboxes and the side of a house before dying.

A car later identified as the one Carter was in was in Medley, one of several municipalities in the Miami-Dade area, when an officer attempted to make a stop. The car fled but the officer did not give pursuit. Later, the car crashed in Hialeah Gardens, according to Miami-Dade police.

Carter was placed on three years' probation when he was released from jail in July after pleading guilty to a 2012 charge of grand theft.

Derek Gilliam and Dana Treen

Pedestrian dies after being struck by car

A pedestrian died Tuesday about 4:45 p.m. after he was struck by a car near Post Street and McDuff Avenue, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office.

Police said the pedestrian, a middle-aged man, was taken to a hospital where he died. Witnesses and the driver were being interviewed by police.

Additional details were not immediately available.

Derek Gilliam

Police ID man found dead in apartment

The identity has been released of a man found dead in a Jacksonville apartment after he called police to say he had been shot.

Willie Dewayne Lattimore, 22, who lived in Westlake Villas at 1370 N. Old Middleburg Road, was found dead Dec. 6 when police arrived. A second person inside the apartment had also been shot.

No other updates have been released.

Dana Treen

Teenager shot in leg at Oakwood Villa

Police are investigating a stairwell shooting of a 16-year-old at the Oakwood Villa Apartments on Kona Avenue.

He was shot in a leg about 10:10 a.m. Tuesday. No suspect has been identified, said Sgt. Terrence James of the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. He said robbery may have been the motive.

Dana Treen

NASSAU

Pastor arrested on battery charge

The 56-year-old pastor of The Anchor Church in Callahan was arrested Dec. 9 on a charge of battery after a woman said she was hit because of the way she drove a tractor at the church at 541798 S. U.S. 1, according to the Nassau County Sheriff's Office.

Elmer Allen Holbrooks, who lives on Lem Turner Road in Jacksonville, has since been released on bail. Reached at his church, the pastor had no comment.

The unidentified victim told deputies she was driving the tractor at the church when Holbrooks climbed on it and slapped her in the head and an arm, according to the arrest report. Holbrooks also tried to fight the woman's husband, according to the report.

The pastor told deputies the woman was "popped" two times because of her driving and the way she looked at him after commenting about her driving, the report said.

Dan Scanlan

Man run over as he was picking up cat

A 25-year-old man killed late Saturday as he tried to rescue his escaped cat on Florida A1A off Interstate 95 near Yulee has been identified as Zackary Jade Landers of Philomath, Ore., according to the Florida Highway Patrol.

Kingsland resident David Michael Marsh was driving his Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck west on Florida A1A about 10:10 p.m. when he came upon a pedestrian wearing dark clothing bending over in the outside lane in an attempt to get his cat, the Highway Patrol said. Marsh hit his brakes but ran over him on the dark roadway, according to investigators.

Dan Scanlan

ST. JOHNS

Man killed in wreck, his passenger ID'd

The identities of a driver who died and a passenger who was critically injured Saturday after their car went out of control on Florida 312 in St. Augustine have been released.

Alec-Julius Francis Rizzi, 29, of the 2100 block of Old Tyme Avenue in St. Augustine was not wearing a seat belt and died after the westbound car crossed the median into the eastbound lanes and struck a minivan driven by a St. Augustine woman, according to the Police Department.

Rizzi's passenger, Brittany N. Williams, 24, of Palm Coast, was not wearing a seat belt and was taken to Flagler Hospital in critical condition following the 5:15 p.m. crash.

Rizzi's car struck a minivan driven by Kim Louise Westfall, 50, of Egret Crest Lane in St. Augustine, who was in the vehicle with her 12-yer-old son, Ethan Joseph Serverius, the Police Department said. She was treated and released from the hospital. Her son was not injured. Both were wearing seat belts.

Dana Treen