A man is dead after several law enforcement agencies were involved in a standoff in Perry early Saturday morning.Perry police and the Dallas County Sheriff's Office told KCCI they'd surrounded a home near 8th and Lewis, but declined to give a reason, saying they weren't in charge of the scene.A few hours later, a news release from the two agencies said the standoff was over, the man inside the home was bank robbery suspect Caleb Anderson, 25, and that Anderson had killed himself.Anderson was suspected of robbing a Raccoon Valley Bank branch in Minburn Friday afternoon.The release said authorities found the vehicle believed to have been used in the robbery outside Anderson's home Friday night.They said a negotiator was working with Anderson for a while before Anderson stopped talking to them. They said when a team of law enforcement officers entered the home they found that Anderson had taken his own life.Authorities said they were planning to search the home for evidence of Anderson's involvement in the robbery.

A man is dead after several law enforcement agencies were involved in a standoff in Perry early Saturday morning.

Perry police and the Dallas County Sheriff's Office told KCCI they'd surrounded a home near 8th and Lewis, but declined to give a reason, saying they weren't in charge of the scene.

Advertisement

A few hours later, a news release from the two agencies said the standoff was over, the man inside the home was bank robbery suspect Caleb Anderson, 25, and that Anderson had killed himself.

Anderson was suspected of robbing a Raccoon Valley Bank branch in Minburn Friday afternoon.

The release said authorities found the vehicle believed to have been used in the robbery outside Anderson's home Friday night.

They said a negotiator was working with Anderson for a while before Anderson stopped talking to them. They said when a team of law enforcement officers entered the home they found that Anderson had taken his own life.

Authorities said they were planning to search the home for evidence of Anderson's involvement in the robbery.