Lititz police Officer Joel Hartz was in a fight for his life from the time he arrived at 101 Arrowhead Drive on Dec. 21, according to the Lancaster County district attorney.

Hartz was confronted there by David Giliberti, an agitated man with a mental illness, District Attorney Craig Stedman reported Tuesday.

Giliberti ignored the officer’s warnings and a pair of shocks with a Taser, prompting Hartz to use deadly force: seven shots from his pistol.

On Tuesday, Stedman announced that Hartz was justified in using deadly force in what was the fourth fatal police-involved shooting here since 2011. A fifth person was wounded and survived in that span.

“He would have murdered Officer Hartz,” Stedman said of Giliberti, who wielded a knife. “There was nothing that was going to stop him, except, essentially, his death.”

Hartz fired at the 22-year-old Giliberti in three flurries, Stedman reported. After the first two shots, Giliberti barely flinched, Hartz reported afterward.

“He didn’t go down and it didn’t even look like it fazed him,” Hartz told Lancaster County Chief Detective Michael Landis. “He was almost smiling at me.”

Bursts of two shots, then three more, finally felled Giliberti, who slumped into a chair, still clenching the knife, Stedman reported.

In all, Hartz fired seven times — six bullets went into Giliberti’s chest, five went clean through the body.

“It sounds like something right out of a movie,” Stedman said. “To have him not stop, that was extraordinary.”

Hartz, a 24-year veteran of the force, has been on paid administrative leave since the shooting.

His chief, William Seace, said Tuesday it’s unknown if Hartz, 47, will return to work.

“It’s unfortunate. This is a tragedy for both (sides),” Seace said. “Hopefully, he’ll come back.”

Investigation of the shooting scene corroborated what Hartz reported, Stedman explained. Also, backup officers who arrived at the house after the shooting said Hartz was “white as ghost” and clearly traumatized.

“This was an absolute last resort,” Stedman said of Hartz firing shots. “The reason that he was forced to use deadly force rests solely with Mr. Giliberti.”

Giliberti was pronounced dead at the scene.

Officials believe he was in the midst of a “psychotic episode” when he attacked the officer. Police had been to the house at least three times in previous months for calls concerning Giliberti’s behavior.

“Obviously, we have a continuing problem with dealing with mental illness,” Stedman said.

Seace noted that incidents involving the mentally ill becoming violent are common across the country.

“This is happening too often,” he said.

A report done by Landis outlines the entire Giliberti incident this way:

Giliberti was combative when Hartz arrived at the house about 3:15 a.m.

Giliberti threatened the officer’s life and reached for his gun while the two men struggled with one another.

Hartz’s glasses were knocked off during the struggle. He repeatedly punched Giliberti.

Hartz shocked Giliberti twice with a Taser; Giliberti continued to combat the officer.

Hartz, tiring from the fight, stood up as Giliberti appeared to be calming down. Giliberti then went to the kitchen and fetched a large knife.

Giliberti advanced toward Hartz, clutching the knife like an ice pick. Hartz drew his gun and fired two shots into Giliberti’s chest.

Giliberti continued to advance toward Hartz, so Hartz fired twice more, then three more times.

At that time, Giliberti sat down. He let go of the knife as he laid back into a couch.

Giliberti’s grandmother told police she called 911 early that morning because of her grandson’s bizarre behavior.

Giliberti told his grandmother there were “a lot of people outside.” The grandmother checked and saw no one.

Giliberti then asked his grandmother if there were any weapons in the house. That prompted the woman to call 911.

“When David asked me if we had a weapon, I realized something was going on with David and I wanted things to be safe for me and for him,” the grandmother later told police.

Giliberti had been treated for mental illness in the past, Landis’ report shows.

He was recently diagnosed at Philhaven as schizophrenic, according to the report.

“The records suggest that he is capable of losing touch with reality, [engaging in] aggressive, risky and potentially injurious behaviors,” the report states.