Sean Holstege

The Republic | azcentral.com

New documents say suspects in Pinal robbery weren%27t shooting at deputy.

Experts say shooting was justified but question if it was necessary.

Sheriff defends shooting%3A %22In the end%2C our deputies go home safe ...%22

The Pinal County Sheriff's Office initial report that one of its deputies fired back at armed men in a fatal Dec. 23 incident is at odds with case records obtained by The Arizona Republic.

Instead of a gunbattle, a deputy shot and killed an armed-robbery suspect in the back as the suspect was running toward a dark field, records say.

The Sheriff's Office first told the public thattwo armed men "shot at the deputy" and that "the deputy returned fire and shot both suspects."

Several media outlets, including azcentral.com and KPNX-12 News, reported that a car chase ended in a shootout minutes after a predawn armed robbery of an adult boutique near Picacho Peak.

But the autopsy report of one of the men, along with statements by deputies, investigators and other evidence obtained by The Arizona Republic through public records tell another story.

The documents say Deputy Tyler Schiess fired at least 11 rounds from his service pistol as two unarmed men fled into a field in the dark just off Arizona 87 near Alsdorf Road. Matthew Clowers, 32, died of asingle bullet to the back. The other man, Adam Chavez, 23, was shot in the right thigh and left forearm, deputies say. Chavez survived. Records say he and Clowers left their weapons in their car.

Pinal County Sheriff's Office spokesman Tim Gaffney said Schiess believed the men had used a gun in an armed robbery and that they were armed when they left the car. He shot after they refused repeated commands to stop, Gaffney said.

"The deputy was afraid the two fleeing felons would endanger the lives of the people who were working in the farm fields they were running towards and those who lived in the nearby homes," Gaffney said.

The nearest homes were a half-mile away, reports say.

As for the discrepancy with the initial report, Gaffney said that subsequent evidence showed the two suspects "did not shoot at the deputy but rather both of their guns used in the robbery were left in the vehicle when they fled on foot."

The original account remains the latest posted online by the Sheriff's Office.

Prosecutors charged Chavez with armed robbery, kidnapping, aggravated assault, misconduct involving a weapon, unlawful flight and first-degree murder because the death happened in response to the initial crime.

Three weeks after Clowers was killed, another Pinal deputy, Heath Rankin, shot and killed another man in the back in Eloy, in a high-profile incident that a bystander captured on video.

The Jan. 14 shooting attracted the attention of the FBI after the video surfaced online and showed Manuel Longoria, a car-theft suspect who led police on a 72-minute car chase, had put his hands up in surrender one second before Rankin pulled the trigger of his AR-15 rifle.

Rankin and Schiess both returned to full duty after three days — after Sheriff Paul Babeu defended their actions, but before investigations were complete.

Chief Deputy Steve Henry said in a prepared statement this week that the December shooting involved split-second decisions.

"The use of deadly force by a law enforcement officer needs to be judged at the precise moment the decision to use deadly force occurs," Henry said.

Veteran ex-police officers and an attorney who have seen the Clowers autopsy and policenarrativessaid the shooting was probably justified under state law and department policy. But each questioned whether the shooting was necessary.

"Where is the imminent threat to the deputy and where is the imminent threat to the community?" asked Bill Richardson, a retired Mesa police officer who investigated homicides and officer-involved shootings during a 25-year career as a police and private investigator. "Backup units were flooding the area and arrived within a couple of minutes to assist the deputy after he chose to go it alone and open fire on the two unarmed suspects as they ran off into a darkened farm field. So why shoot?"

The Pinal County Sheriff's Office use-of-force policy says that lethal force can be used against a fleeing suspect if "the deputy reasonably believes that there is an imminent risk of serious bodily injury or death to any other person."

Experts agree that that policy was followed, but are troubled by the circumstances of the shooting.

"If they are running toward people, he's firing at people," said Joel Robbins, a Phoenix attorney who has tried police-shooting cases. "Legally, they can shoot a fleeing felon, but this is justification after the fact. He could have hit those workers."

The incident began at 6:26 a.m. on Dec. 23, when deputies were told of an armed robbery at M Passion Adult Boutique in Red Rock, just south of Picacho Peak. A chase ended when the suspects' Audi spun out, police say. The next thing deputies reported hearing was "shots fired."

Schiess, through Gaffney, declined to comment.

But Schiess told investigators that he stood 4 feet from his car to fire his Glock. Technicians recovered 11 shell casings there. The car was on the edge of the highway, about 100 feet from the fleeing men, satellite imagery suggests.

Deputy Corbiere Pecora, who arrived moments after the shooting, described Schiess as "very emotional and shaken up."

Pecora said Schiess told him he'd "made a judgment call," without elaborating.

That judgment call lies at the heart of the matter, said Paul Penzone, a former Phoenix police sergeant who now has a consulting firm and is retained as an expert by KPNX-12 News.

"He has to expound on that," Penzone said. "Everything is in his words or in his mind-set.

"The shot in the back doesn't bother me if it's justified. The decision to shoot somebody is like the decision to go to war. You should only do it when you have no other choice."

Clowersdied at the scene. His autopsy revealed that he died of a single shot that hit the left side of his back and punctured his heart. The bullet was fired at "intermediate/distant range" and was recovered in his clothing, a sign it had lost velocity.

No gun residue was reported on his body.

Guns and magazines, along with the stolen safe from the boutique, were recovered from them en's car. Technicians reported no missing bullets or gun residue in the car.

Babeu, in a prepared statement at the time, described Schiess as a "highly disciplined" SWAT team member, and praised deputies for being "quick to catch these bad guys."

The sheriff added: "In the end, our deputies go home safe and one suspect goes to the morgue and the other to the hospital before life in prison."