Violent crime continues to be rampant in the Albuquerque area. and the state of New Mexico. We are near the top in Violent crime in our nation. We have done many stories on this issue. We here at FGGAM bring this issue to the forefront, while most leaders in this City and state do not address it.

This is a change of heart issue.

The body of Christ plays a huge role on the issue of crime. We must carry out the Great Commission and reach others for Jesus Christ.

I have many friends who minister into the prisons of this state, extending the love of Jesus. No doubt the Court system needs a lot of work, thugs are released and released and released again, same thing with drunk drivers.

The state of New Mexico has people driving that have been arrested 10 or more times for DUI. Now comes this horrible news of a Mother beating her son to death.

A judge refused to lower a 100-thousand dollar bond for a woman accused of beating and kicking her nine-year-old son to death. Synthia Varela-Casaus was arrested after paramedics called to her home on Comanche on Friday, Officals found her son’s body cold to the touch and covered with bruises. Doctors later found evidence of previous abuse.

Drunk driving?

Two people died in a Rio Rancho traffic accident. Police say the driver and a passenger in a Toyota were fatally injured when their car was struck by a Infiniti at the intersection of Unser and Southern Boulevards. The accident happened about 2 a.m. yesterday. The occupants of the Infiniti suffered minor injuries. Police say alcohol may have been a factor in the collision.

Thugs on the loose in the City!

A police pursuit of a stolen vehicle ends with two suspects in custody and a third dead of a gunshot wound. The chase began Friday night in central Albuquerque and ended in woods near Placitas where the suspects jumped out of the car. One suspect fired a shot at police who did not return fire. Two suspects surrendered and the third, Jaycob J. Gabaldon, was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Security Guard stabbed at Local Grocery Store!

A security guard at a busy grocery store is recovering after being stabbed. The guard was stabbed in the neck Saturday while confronting a shoplifter at Smith’s in the 200 block of Tramway. The victim’s name has not been released. It’s a very sad day when citizens are not even safe going to the grocery store.

I know that there is some kind of movement in the State Legislature to address this issue, I pray it gains traction.

I pray for the leaders of this state to see this as a heart issue, and to clean up the Court system, and that more of the Body of Christ get’s involved in helping. A community and state cannot thrive where people are not safe.

Two Kinds of Wisdom

James 3: 13-18 13 Who is wise and understanding among you? Let them show it by their good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. 14 But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. 15 Such “wisdom” does not come down from heaven but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. 16 For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. 17 But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure; then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. 18 Peacemakers who sow in peace reap a harvest of righteousness. Read our update on Violent Crime in Albuquerque and New Mexico: https://fggam.org/as-violent-crime-runs-rampant-in-albuquerque-apd-deals-with-shortage-of-officers/