A 31-year-old man died late Thursday night in a police shooting at a Pittsburg apartment complex, police confirmed Friday morning.

The shooting occurred at about 9:20 p.m. Thursday at the Stoneman Apartment Complex on Loveridge Road, not far from Highway 4.

Officers responded to a report of a man holding a gun and banging on the front door of his ex-girlfriend's apartment, police said. When they arrived, they contacted the man on a stairway leading to a second-floor apartment. Officers asked the man to walk down the stairs and speak with them, but he ignored their commands and began walking back up the stairs.

As the man reached the top of the stairs, officers saw he was holding a handgun in his right hand. Officers told the man to drop the gun, and instead, he turned towards the officers and pointed the weapon at them, prompting the officers to shoot him, police said.

Get a weekly recap of the latest San Francisco Bay Area housing news. Sign up for NBC Bay Area’s Housing Deconstructed newsletter.

Police in a statement said the man fell to the ground still holding the gun.

The man died at the scene, police said.

"We were enjoying a nice time at home and all of a sudden we hear 'boom, boom, boom!'" neighbor Damon Pierson said.

Pierson said he and his family are traumatized by the deadly shooting outside his neighbor's apartment.

A neighbor's doorbell camera capture the gunfire. The neighbor did not want to be identified, but told NBC Bay area she was shocked at how long it took for medical aid to arrive after the man had been shot.

"He was not moving after he was shot and he was laying there for a good 45 minutes to an hour before paramedics went up the stairs," the neighbor said.

Pittsburg police, sheriff's deputies and a crime scene team were still at the scene collecting evidence Friday morning. Police said they would be releasing bodycam footage and the officers' names, in line with department policy.

The Contra Costa County District Attorney's Office is investigating the shooting.

Police on Friday did not respond to NBC Bay Area's repeated request for comment.