The Boulder County Coroner on Monday afternoon identified the man shot and killed by a Boulder County deputy on Sunday as 43-year-old Christopher George.

Detectives continued working Monday on the investigation into the fatal shooting of George in his home southwest of Longmont after his mother called for help because he had been holed up in a room for days.

Members of the county’s multi-agency critical incident team visited neighbors of the home at 8309 N. 95th St. on Monday morning and revisited the scene inside the house, which was surrounded by police crime scene tape and secured by Boulder County deputies. The home was released to its owner, Dixie George, at about 6:15 p.m. Monday.

The Boulder County Sheriff’s Office reported on Sunday that a woman at the home called county dispatch at 8:35 a.m. and asked for help for her adult son, who had been in his room for several days. The woman reported to the sheriff’s office that he did not have access to weapons.

Deputy Brandon Bussard, a two-year veteran of the sheriff’s office, and Deputy Gary Robinson, a 16-year veteran, responded about 10 minutes later. They went to the room to speak with George and he reportedly “displayed” a gun during the conversation.

Boulder County Sheriff’s Office spokeswoman Cmdr. Heidi Prentup reported Bussard fired several rounds and wounded the man, who died at 12:50 p.m. on Sunday after he was flown to Denver Health Medical Center for surgery.

“The male, who was seated on his bed partially covered with blankets, reached behind his back. One deputy advanced in an attempt to gain control of the man’s arm. The man produced a 9 mm handgun and pointed it at the deputy,” Prentup wrote Monday in an email update about the shooting. “Both deputies saw the gun, heard the suspect manipulating the weapon and feared for their life. (Bussard) ultimately fired three times, striking the male twice in the torso, with the third round going into the bed. When the suspect’s handgun was examined later it was jammed, appearing to have malfunctioned.”

Neighbor Al Summers said Dixie George has lived in the home since the late 1990s and that she has two sons and a daughter. He speculated, based on the age of the man who was killed, that her older son was shot.

“I am just sad for the situation,” he said.

Christopher George’s Facebook page said he studied communications at Arizona State University. His profile picture was taken in October at an adult education conference in Colorado Springs.

Summers recalled that Dixie George’s sons would often do physical labor at the several-acre property and, a few years ago, worked for months to replace the roof.

Several members of the George family suffered from health issues that seemed to stress the family, Summers said. However, he said his neighbors were generally quiet and did not have a violent history that he was aware of.

Summers did not know the older son was around recently, he said.

“He must have been really depressed or something like that,” Summers said.

He and his wife, Akiko, heard the commotion next to their home Sunday morning after the shooting, but did not hear yelling or gunshots prior.

“Why didn’t they Taze him or something?” he asked.

The sheriff’s office reported on Sunday that George’s mother and sister-in-law were in the home at the time of the shooting, but no one else was hurt.

“Dixie must be devastated,” Akiko Summers said.

The team of detectives investigating the shooting will compile a report for presentation to Boulder County Sheriff Joe Pelle and Boulder District Attorney Stan Garnett. The sheriff will determine whether the shooting was justified under office policy and Garnett will review it to make sure the deputies complied with the law.

Garnett said on Monday morning that the critical incident team’s report likely will take six to eight weeks to complete.

Bussard, 28, was placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, per protocol.

The Boulder County Coroner’s Office completed an autopsy on George on Monday afternoon. Cause and manner of death are still pending.

The Sunday morning shooting was the second in Boulder County in the past month.

Pierrette J. Shields can be reached at 303-684-5273 or at pshields@times-call.com.