Brensinger Alley

Schuylkill Street and Brensinger Alley in Harrisburg was the scene of a fatal shooting by Harrisburg police officers on Dec. 29, 2013. Paul Chaplin | pchaplin@pennlive.com

Two Harrisburg police officers who fatally shot a man in December were justified in using deadly force, according to Dauphin County District Attorney Ed Marsico Jr., whose review of the shooting was completed this week.

Officers Chad McGowan and Jeremy Crist shot William Jackson, 43, of East Hanover Township, on Dec. 29 in the Brensinger Alley. Jackson was hit with three gunshots, including a fatal wound to the spine, authorities said previously.

Marsico, who is tasked with reviewing police-involved shootings in the county, determined Jackson was a wanted man and attempted to drive his pickup truck directly at McGowan before the officers fired at him.

A toxicology test also determined Jackson had cocaine, marijuana and alcohol in his system at the time he was shot, Marsico said.

"Officer McGowan was justified because he believed deadly force was immediately necessary to protect himself against death or serious bodily injury that would be inflicted by Jackson's vehicle ..." Marsico wrote in his review.

"Similarly, Officer Crist was justified in using deadly force because he believed it was immediately necessary to use such force to protect Officer McGowan," Marsico added.

•Attorney for William Jackson's family says he'll look at legality of shooting

At the time of the shooting, Jackson, who had a criminal history, had warrants out for his arrest from the state Board of Probation and Parole and the county's Court of Common Pleas.

He told Crist his name was "Oswald Jackson" when he was initially pulled over around 5 p.m., according to Marsico's review of the incident. The officer reported that he pulled Jackson over because the license plate on his truck was not registered to the vehicle.

Jackson also told Crist he was in the city to work on a roofing job with his father, but Crist reported Jackson could not identify which house he was working on.

McGowan and Harrisburg police Officer Daniel Antoni arrived in a city police sports utility vehicle to assist Crist with the traffic stop. They parked the SUV facing Jackson's truck. Jackson later revved the engine and put the truck in gear, according to Marsico's report.

At that point, McGowan was standing directly in front of the truck. As it came at him, he reported he began to fire his gun at Jackson. Meanwhile, Crist, who was reported in the rear of the truck, also fired at the truck. Antoni did not fire his service weapon.

After the shots were fired, the truck traveled a short distance and crashed. Antoni and an EMS worker who lived in the area tried to administer CPR on Jackson without success.

In addition to the cocaine and marijuana found in his system, Jackson also had a blood alcohol content of 0.071, Marsico said. The legal limit to drive in Pennsylvania is 0.08.

Marsico's review, which was dated July 30 and sent to Harrisburg police Chief Thomas Carter, relied on 36 sources of information.

They include interviews with the officers involved, forensics, video surveillance tape from a nearby bar and work done by detectives in the county's criminal investigation division.