ANDOVER — Two men from Lowell and Lawrence, who had reportedly been fleeing police at speeds of more than 100 mph, were killed after their car crashed into a snowbank, a guard rail and the concrete abutment to an overpass before landing on the opposite side of a highway off-ramp early New Year’s Day.

Quadeer Dicks of Lowell and Cesar Rodriguez of Lawrence, both 19, were ejected from the car and later pronounced dead at local hospitals, said state police spokesman David Procopio.

Dicks, of 25 South Walker St., was named in a police report as the driver of a pickup truck that crashed into the storefront of Flowers By Albert in Lowell around 5 a.m. Monday. No citations were issued in that crash.

Because both Dicks and Rodriguez were found outside the car, police have not yet determined who was the driver in the Wednesday morning accident, Procopio said.

Andover and Lawrence police were first on the scene of the accident, which Procopio said occurred around 2:45 a.m.

State police then responded and are now investigating the crash because it occurred at the Interstate 495 ramp complex — which Procopio said is a state road –at the interchange with Route 28.

Procopio said Lawrence police had been in pursuit of the car, a 2007 Acura, as it traveled down Route 28 southbound. Police stopped the chase when the car went over 100 mph, though a second cruiser continued to follow the car at a slower pace.

Near the interchange with I-495 in Andover, the car apparently hit a snowbank, went over a guardrail and then struck an overpass abutment, landed in a grassy area, then went down over an off-ramp, across the off-ramp and landed on the opposite side, Procopio said.

“At some point in this whole sequence, it’s rolling over,” he said. “I’m not sure how many times, but both parties were ejected.”

Both men were transported to Lawrence General Hospital. Dicks was pronounced dead there and Rodriguez was airlifted to Boston’s Brigham and Women’s hospital, where he was pronounced dead.