Hospital authorities would not comment Saturday on the condition of Dale Wallace, a Butte robbery suspect who was run over by a police car in a stand off in Oregon on Friday.

Wallace’s alleged accomplish, Sarah Jo Johnson, committed suicide in the stand off that lasted an estimated five hours in a small town on the Oregon Coast.

The two were suspects in a Dec. 30 robbery at Coins N Cards on Harrison Avenue in Butte. They are suspected of stealing money and at least five guns from the store. They also bound the store’s elderly owner, who eventually got free and called 911.

Wallace and Johnson, both 30, were located in Lincoln City, Ore., Friday in a black Nissan Altima that was stolen from Helena before the Butte robbery, authorities said. FBI investigators located the pair by tracking their cell phones.

Oregon authorities told media that Wallace had been flown 100 miles to Oregon Health and Science University medical center in Portland with series injuries sustained during the stand off.

A spokeswoman at the medical center on Saturday would not confirm or deny that Wallace was even at the hospital. She said authorities may not want information released about Wallace.

Wallace was injured when he was struck by a police vehicle during the stand off. The officer driving the marked vehicle deliberately hit Wallace after the suspect aimed a handgun at police who were pursuing him on foot.

Oregon State Police spokesman Lt. Gregg Hastings told The Montana Standard on Saturday that Wallace had exited the Nissan Altima during a traffic stop and took off running. Johnson had remained in the vehicle, which was stopped in a parking lot near several businesses and a community center.

A SWAT team and negotiator were dispatched to the scene. Hastings said that the team tried to get Johnson to surrender, and at one point she even agreed. However, Johnson killed herself with a firearm in the vehicle about 10 minutes before 9 p.m. Friday, Hastings said.

In a press briefing Saturday afternoon, Butte-Silver Bow Sheriff Ed Lester said that after speaking with Oregon authorities, he didn’t think Wallace had life-threatening injuries, but that he didn’t know for sure. He also said he wishes the stand off had a different outcome.

“It’s unfortunate it ended in the death of one of the suspects,” Lester said. “We never want injuries or death in any apprehension. But (the suspects) chose the way this ended. They had the mindset they wouldn’t be taken alive it sounds like. It’s fortunate civilians and law enforcement weren’t injured.”

— Reach Christensen at kelley.christensen@mtstandard.com or 406-496-5572.

PREVIOUS STORY published Friday, Jan. 3:

The woman accused of helping rob a cards and coin store in Butte killed herself in a stand off Friday in Oregon, and her alleged accomplice is hospitalized after being run over by a police car.

Police say they cornered Sarah Jo Johnson, 30, and her accomplice in the robbery, Dale Wallace, 30, near Lincoln City, according to Portland television station KPTV. Wallace, 30, was hit by a police car in the stand off and was flown to a medical center in Portland, about 100 miles away, authorities said.

The events unfolded Friday afternoon when FBI agents in Seattle pinpointed the suspects using cellphone data. Lincoln City police began surveillance of a motel in the town, located on the Pacific Coast, about 1 p.m. The suspects left the motel while police were waiting for a warrant.

Undercover units followed Wallace and Johnson, who were driving a black Nissan Altima believed to be stolen, and tried to make a traffic stop when the suspects realized they were being tailed.

Police said Wallace got out and started running while pointing a gun at police. Officers intentionally hit Wallace with the car in self defense, according to reports.

Johnson, however, remained holed up in a vehicle in the stand off while police attempted to negotiate with her. After about five hours, she apparently shot herself in the car.

Wallace was taken to a local hospital and later flown to the Oregon Health and Science University medical center in Portland, about 100 miles away from Lincoln City. His condition was unavailable late Friday night.

Wallace and Johnson are accused of pointing a large-caliber gun at the owner of Cards and Coins, 1867 Harrison Ave., Butte, about 5:30 p.m. Monday. They bound him and left him in the backroom of the shop then stole five guns, cash and collectible coins, police said.

They also stole the owner’s vehicle and left a 1999 Buick Park Avenue at the Motel 6 in Rocker.

After about 20 minutes, the owner, who is in his 70s, was able to maneuver enough out of the restraints to call 911 just before 6 p.m.

Police initially thought the two were in a rented Jeep and were headed toward Billings, and then Missoula.

Both suspects have Montana criminal records, according to online court records. Wallace has served time for forgery and assault with a deadly weapon and Johnson, also known as Sarah Jo Hoy, served time for assault on a minor.

For update on this story Saturday, visit www.mtstandard.comhttp://www.mtstandard.com/>