F.T. Norton StarNews Staff

SOUTHEASTERN N.C. -- The mother of Keith Vidal, a teen shot dead in his home by a police officer in 2014, has settled her wrongful death lawsuit against the officer, Bryon Vassey, Boiling Springs Lakes, Southport and Brunswick County Sheriff John Ingram for $1 million, said her attorney David Ventura of Crumley Roberts LLP in Charlotte.

The dismissal with prejudice, signed Monday, prevents Vidal's mother, Mary Wilsey, from refiling the lawsuit.

On Jan. 5, 2014, Vassey arrived at Vidal's home in Boiling Spring Lakes to assist a Boiling Springs Lake police officer and a Brunswick County deputy after Vidal's parents called law enforcement for help. At the time, Vidal, 18, was in the throes of a schizophrenic episode and his mother told investigators she wanted police to help her get him committed for mental health care.

Moments after arriving at the President Drive home, however, Vassey shot and killed Vidal, who was holding a screwdriver. The shooting happened within inches of the others police officers and Vidal’s mother and stepfather.

At the conclusion of a two-week bench trial in May, a judge found Vassey not guilty of voluntary manslaughter. Vassey said he feared for his life and the lives of his fellow officers when he shot the teen once in the chest at close range.

In the lawsuit, Wilsey alleged that Vassey and the other defendants were negligent; used excessive force; deprived Vidal of life; that Southport, Boiling Spring Lakes and Brunswick County failed to properly train its officers; and that Southport was responsible for the actions of its employee.

Ventura said Boiling Spring Lakes' insurance will cover the settlement since other authorities responded to the call as part of a "mutual aid" agreement between the entities. The mutual agreement -- a standard agreement between law enforcement and emergency departments near one another -- ensures the agencies backup one another in the event backup is needed.

Ventura said the defendants did not accept responsibility in the settlement, but for "whatever reason" decided during mediation in December to settle the case.

As part of Wilsey's settlement with Brunswick County, Sheriff Ingram has agreed to make a public statement offering his support for legislation that would require Crisis Intervention Techniques training -- for dealing with mentally ill people -- part of the requirements for becoming a law enforcement officer in North Carolina.

Reporter F.T. Norton can be reached at 910-343-2070 or Fran.Norton@StarNewsOnline.com.