A Modesto standoff ended when a 30-year-old man allegedly killed himself after shooting two people Sunday morning, police said.Victor Salazar Ramirez apparently shot himself after a six-hour standoff at a home on the 1100 block of Cannes Avenue, according to Modesto police. Officers arrived at the home around midnight and saw several members of a family, including children, leaving the home.One man, who had been shot, was outside of the home. He was taken to a hospital in stable condition.Witnesses told police that a woman was still inside.Officers distracted the man inside the home with a light and sound device and pulled the woman to safety, police said.The woman suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was taken to a hospital in stable condition.SWAT and hostage negotiators were called in to try and get Ramirez to surrender. However, Ramirez did not respond to any form of communication.SWAT officers entered the home around 6 a.m., where they found Ramirez dead in a bedroom from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said.The investigation is still ongoing.Anyone with information is asked to call the Modesto Police Department at 209-521-4636.

A Modesto standoff ended when a 30-year-old man allegedly killed himself after shooting two people Sunday morning, police said.

Victor Salazar Ramirez apparently shot himself after a six-hour standoff at a home on the 1100 block of Cannes Avenue, according to Modesto police.

Advertisement

Officers arrived at the home around midnight and saw several members of a family, including children, leaving the home.



One man, who had been shot, was outside of the home. He was taken to a hospital in stable condition.

Witnesses told police that a woman was still inside.

Officers distracted the man inside the home with a light and sound device and pulled the woman to safety, police said.

The woman suffered multiple gunshot wounds and was taken to a hospital in stable condition.

SWAT and hostage negotiators were called in to try and get Ramirez to surrender. However, Ramirez did not respond to any form of communication.

SWAT officers entered the home around 6 a.m., where they found Ramirez dead in a bedroom from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said.

The investigation is still ongoing.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Modesto Police Department at 209-521-4636.