Princess Wright (Source: EBRSO)

BATON ROUGE, LA (WAFB) - Baton Rouge Police say the driver of a stolen vehicle died after crashing into another vehicle at the intersection of Old Hammond Highway and Drusilla Highway Monday morning.

The crash happened around 10 a.m. Police say when the stolen car hit another vehicle, the stolen car flipped. The female driving the vehicle, 19-year-old Kiamonte Davis, died and a second female passenger is in police custody.

The female passenger who was arrested has been identified as 20-year-old Princess Wright.



According to Baton Rouge Police, two females asked someone for a ride near Foster and Government Street in Mid City Baton Rouge Monday morning. The women got into the vehicle and wanted to be taken near the area of Government and Community College Drive. As they were going down the street, the women allegedly threatened the driver saying they had a gun and that they're taking the car. The driver jumped out of the white Toyota Camry.

"The victim was able to flag down a passerby along with the police. A Uniformed Patrol Unit in the area was able to spot the fleeing vehicle from a distance, but could never catch up with the vehicle as it was traveling at a high rate of speed," said Cpl. Don Coppola Jr. in a news release Monday afternoon.



Police say the two women were driving down Old Hammond Highway and they ran a red light and hit another vehicle. When the suspect vehicle flipped, the driver did not survive the crash. The passenger, Princess Wright, was not injured in the crash.



BRPD officials say the women were not being chased by police when the crash happened, however, police had been notified of the car jacking and the crash occurred before they were able to get within a visible range of the stolen vehicle.



Baton Rouge Police now say the driver of the other vehicle involved in the crash, 26-year-old Jessica Graves, sustained moderate to severe injuries. Family members tell WAFB the victim is in surgery and could be bed-ridden for at least six months. The child in the vehicle, a 9-month-old boy, had a small bump on the head, but is otherwise uninjured.

The identity of the woman who died in the crash has not been released. Princess Wright has been charged with first degree robbery.

The investigation is ongoing, and additional charges are pending against Wright.



Copyright 2014 WAFB. All rights reserved.