Images from 23rd Street and Hardesty Avenue where an innocent bystander was killed after their vehicle was struck by a suspect vehicle involved in a chase with Independence Police.

Advertisement Innocent driver killed in crash following police chase Vehicle involved in chase strikes innocent vehicle Share Copy Link Copy

An innocent driver was killed and his two passengers were seriously injured when a suspect car crashed into their vehicle following a police chase at 23rd Street and Hardesty Avenue on Monday morning.Click here for images from the scenePolice said the suspect silver vehicle was driving at a high rate of speed when it crashed into a black vehicle at 23rd Street and Hardesty Avenue just after 10:30 a.m.People who live in the area said the force of the crash was so hard that it shook their homes."It was loud. Louder than anything I've ever heard, really," said neighbor Douglas Baltezore.Police said the chase started at 23rd Street and Hall Road in Independence when an officer observed the vehicle speeding. Police said the pursuing officer gave up the chase a few blocks before the crash scene, but the driver kept on going."The vehicle continued westbound on 23rd street," said Kansas City Police Sgt. Bill Moloney. "Witnesses are telling us the vehicle was still at a high rate of speed."The driver in the bystander vehicle died, police said. Police identified him as Jason Lewis, 35, of Kansas City. Two female passengers, one adult and one teenager, were injured. Police said they had been heading home from the grocery store.Police said a citizen helped officers track down the suspect driver. The driver, a 22-year-old Independence man, has been taken to a hospital for treatment of his injuries. Prosecutors said charges against him were expected to be announced Tuesday.People who live in the area said they question whether a pursuit is worth the risk to innocent people.Police said the officer involved followed proper protocol, including ending the chase when he felt the lead driver was going too fast."Once our officers terminate pursuit, we can't control what that other person does at that point," said Maj. Ken Jarnigan of the Independence Police Department.11833402