A Perry County man who died Saturday following a police chase had posted bail related to felony charges earlier in the week.

Donald L. Tolbert, 23, died after he was cornered in a cul-de-sac on North Second Street around 3 p.m. A few hours earlier, police believe, Tolbert shot and killed a 56-year-old woman who was stopped at a stop sign in Wheatfield Township, Perry County.

On Friday, Tolbert had posted $50,000 bail related to alleged offenses including felony charges of burglary while a victim was present in a home and breaking into a home, and a misdemeanor charge of simple assault, according to online court records. He also was charged with harassment.

The court records said the alleged offenses took place Oct. 17. Tolbert had been scheduled for preliminary arraignment on Friday and for a preliminary hearing on Feb. 7.

People who answered the phone at the homes of two relatives of Tolbert on Saturday night had no comment.

Based on police reports, Saturday’s events apparently began around 11 a.m. after a 25-year-old woman told state police in Newport she had been sexually assaulted by Tolbert.

Around 1 p.m., police believe, Tolbert shot the 56-year-old woman, who was stopped at a stop sign in the 500 block of Dellville Road in Wheatfield Township. According to the initial police report, police found the woman unconscious in her car with a head wound.

Police haven’t released the name of the woman, who is from Wheatfield Township.

A state police spokesman on Saturday night was unable to provide a motive for the shooting.

Police believe Tolbert next stole a red Ford Focus from a home on Jefferson Street in Duncannon, where relatives of Tolbert live.

He then stole multiple guns from a home in Howe Twp. and later robbed a convenience store in Dauphin Borough.

Late Saturday afternoon, he was spotted by police in Susquehanna Twp. and chased him into the cul-de-sac in the 3700 block of North Second Street. Neighbors reported hearing about a half-dozen shots.

Dauphin County District Attorney Ed Marsico said police fired shots, but it was also possible Tolbert shot himself, and the cause of death won’t be known until after an autopsy.