ANAHEIM – “He was no saint, but this wasn’t him,” said Joseph Silva, the nephew of the man officials identified Saturday who died in a crash after a high-speed police chase following a bank robbery Friday.

Richard Brieger, his uncle, was too nice to the mastermind a robbery, Silva said, speculating he was merely a pawn because of his good nature. And the man Silva blames for the idea of crime? – his father, Arthur Joseph Taylor, a convicted armed robber, who’s alive but in critical condition with severe head trauma.

“(Brieger) was a nice guy, he didn’t do this,” Silva said.

Brieger, of Corona, was killed two days before his 57th birthday after he crashed a Honda Civic into a light pole near the Kaiser Permanente building, 3440 E. La Palma Ave., shortly before 2 p.m. Friday. Police suspect that he and Taylor, a convicted felon, robbed a bank about 10 minutes before the crash.

Taylor, 49, was recently released from federal prison after an approximate 20-year sentence for armed robbery, officials confirmed.

“He has a lengthy criminal history that includes robbery,” said Anaheim police Lt. Tim Schmidt.

Police suspect Brieger and Taylor robbed a Bank of the West, 4501 E. La Palma Ave., by handing a note to a teller demanding cash before fleeing the scene. Officers chased the men, who at times drove on the wrong side of the road and through several red lights at a high-speed, until Brieger crashed.

Investigators said $4,000 was stolen from the bank and cash was found in the Honda Civic, but officials have not released the amount of money found in the car, Schmidt said.

Silva, 28, who was raised in group homes and lived with Brieger briefly when he was 16, said he’s never met his father because Taylor was incarcerated for most of Silva’s life.

“This wasn’t (Brieger); he got caught up in a bad situation and now he has a title that I don’t think he deserves,” Silva said. “The worst part is now his daughter has nobody but us.”

Silva said Brieger is survived by a 12-year-old daughter whose mother, Diana Brieger, is troubled and unemployed.

Richard Brieger grew up in Rosemead and had resided in Corona for the past 15 to 20 years. A handyman, he lived with his Diana Brieger’s mother and helped the family out whenever possible, Silva said.

Richard Brieger was arrested on suspicion of felony possession of controlled substances on Sept.10, 2012. He pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of misdemeanor possession controlled substances and was sentenced to complete a drug diversion program in May 2013. He was scheduled to bring proof of completion of the program to court Jan. 17, according to Riverside County court records.

“He was very caring and giving,” Silva said. “He was nice, never thuggish.”

Police and the FBI are continuing to investigate the robbery and death.

Contact the writer: 714-704-3764 or aduranty@ocregister.com