RIVERSIDE >> A jury in a federal civil trial has returned a verdict showing that members of the San Bernardino County sheriff’s SWAT team did not violate a Victorville man’s civil rights in 2014 when they shot and killed him.

After a three-week trial and three days of deliberation, jurors came back Monday and determined the sheriff’s Specialized Enforcement Team, also known as the SWAT team, did not violate Enrique Carlos Rodarte’s civil rights based on “the totality of circumstances the deputies faced that evening.”

Rodarte’s family sued the county in U.S. District Court in Riverside for alleged wrongful death and civil rights violations after the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office reviewed the case and found the shooting was justified for reasons of self-defense and the defense of others and said no criminal liability would be attached to any involved officer.

On Jan. 14, 2014, deputies responded to a call about shots fired in the 16600 block of Zenda Street in Victorville, according to the District Attorney’s Office report about the incident.

Deputies located the suspect, Rodarte, speeding away from the scene. A chase ensued, and Rodarte leaned out of the vehicle and pointed a firearm at deputies while trying to elude capture.

Rodarte crashed his car and ran into a home in the 16700 block of Lacy Street where he held deputies at bay for more than four hours.

Since Rodarte was considered armed and barricaded, the sheriff’s SWAT team was dispatched to the scene.

At the end of the nearly five-hour standoff, Rodarte emerged from the home yelling at deputies. With a beer can in one hand, he quickly put his other hand into the pocket of a poncho he was wearing and raised it — simulating a handgun — toward deputies.

Believing lives were in danger, deputies fired on the man. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Later, the investigation revealed Rodarte was unarmed, and the handgun he produced during the chase was eventually found in the area of the crash. Rodarte’s handgun was determined to be a BB gun.

The District Attorneys Office investigated the incident and rendered a decision a short time later justifying the shooting based on the evidence on hand.

“Rodarte further increased the danger to others by barricading himself in his residence,” the District Attorney’s Office stated in its published report. “SWAT officers possessed a reasonable belief that lethal force was necessary to protect their lives, and the lives of others, based on Rodarte’s continuing acts and the information which had been provided to them at the situation briefing.”