deprenda-and-mayor-campana-81211jpg-b2f6f2d4a225b43d.jpg

Police officer Jonathan DePrenda is shown with Williamsport Mayor Gabriel Campana in a photo posted on the Williamsport police department website announcing the hiring of DePrenda and several other officers.

WILLIAMSPORT — The local Fraternal Order of Police lodge has voted to financially support the Williamsport officer charged criminally with causing the death of a motorist in a fiery crash.

Patrolman Jonathan DePrenda Wednesday night asked members of Lodge 29 for support and it was approved, its president, Lt. Steve Helm, said Thursday. The extent of the financial support was not disclosed.

DePrenda is awaiting trial on charges that include vehicular homicide, involuntary manslaughter and recklessly endangering another person from the accident that killed James David Robinson, 42, of Williamsport.

It was a serious tragedy for all involved, Helm said. No officer will come to work intending for such an incident to happen, he said.

DePrenda is suspended with pay pending the completion of a city police internal investigation.

According to testimony at his preliminary hearing, he thought he was going considerably slower than the 98 to 101 miles an hour the event data recorder in his cruiser showed.

He was racing east on East Third Street to assist another officer who was holding a suspect at gunpoint following a chase when Robinson attempted to turn left in front of DePrenda onto Railway Street. The pursuit had ended about a minute before the fatal accident, police radio logs show.

Following the collision, Robinson’s car severed a utility pole, clipped the cruiser, struck a fire hydrant and came to rest against a vacant house where it burst into flames.

The cruiser’s speed at impact was 88 mph, state police Cpl. Sean Batterson, an accident reconstructionist, testified at DePrenda's preliminary hearing.

The cruiser, traveling at 144 feet per second, likely outran the sound of its siren and Robinson may have been unaware DePrenda was attempting to pass because of two vehicles behind him, state police Cpl. LaRue C. Stelene testified.

Speed limit on East Third Street is 35 mph. DePrenda, free on $25,000 unsecured bail, also is charged with driving at an unsafe speed and careless and reckless driving.