Shooter Shawn Walter Bair had previously been arrested by the Elkhart County Sheriff's Department in 2010. (Elkhart County Sheriff's Departm)

The gunman who killed two women in an Indiana supermarket late Wednesday reveled in his bloodlust for at least two years on Facebook.

Shawn Walter Bair, 22, stormed Martin's Supermarket in Elkhart about 10 p.m. and shot a 20-year-old store employee and 44-year-old customer, Sgt. Trent Smith said.

Advertisement

"I wouldn't say it was well-planned, but it was obviously thought out," said Smith. "He was going to the store with a mission."

The younger victim was identified by a friend on Facebook as Krystle Dikes. The customer was identified by police as Rachelle Godfread.

Advertisement

The 22-year-old ranted online about his own doom, as well as the world's. (Shawn Bair via Facebook)

"For those who don't know, my mom was shot and killed last night at a grocery store," Joe Godfread, her son, wrote on Facebook. "Rachelle Godfread we love you."

Bair's mayhem ended when two police officers arriving quickly on the scene shot and killed him as he pointed his 40-caliber handgun at a potential third victim.

Police have not uncovered a motive, but the gunman's Facebook provided a window into his demented mind.

One twisted selfie posted in August of last year shows Bair's bloodied face after he said he was bitten by a pit bull. (Shawn Bair via Facebook)

Bair showed a fascination with serial killers and posted a gruesome photo of his face bloodied by what he said was a bite from a pit bull.

"I MAY BE GOING TO HELL BUT ATLEAST I'M GOING HONEST AND YOU KNOW WHAT THATS ALL I'VE EVER BEEN YOU LOOK AT ME AND SEE THIS FREAK I SEE A GOD BECAUSE I EMBRACE MY F----- UP SIDE AND WHEN I'M IN HELL I HOPE YOU PASS THROUGH MY RACK HAVE FUN WITH THAT AHAHAHAHAHAHAHA," he wrote in August 2011.

Another post that same month was equally insane.

A friend identified Krystle Dikes, 20, as the Martin's supermarket employee killed by Bair. (Facebook)

"I HOPE YOU ALL BURN IN THE FURTHEST PITS OF HELL I HOPE THE TORTURE LASTS FOREVER AND EVERY SECOND OF EVERY MINUTE YOUR THINKING ABOUT YOUR LOVED ONES. EVERYONE WILL PASS THROUGH TORTURE RACKS MADE OF BONE WITH RAZOR BLADES MADE FROM FIRE I WILL BE PICASSO WITH A FIRE RAZOR BLADE BENEATH MY FINGERS," he wrote.

Other posts featured disturbing artwork of clowns, crime scenes and a poster of notorious serial killers like Ted Bundy and Jeffrey Dahmer.

Advertisement

"There's not a day that goes by, it seems like anymore, where we're not learning of a school shooting or at a business. ... We hope that this would never come to our hometown and here it is," Smith said during a prior press conference at the scene of the crime.

Store customer Rachelle Godfread, 44, was the second person killed in the supermarket shooting in Indiana. (Facebook)

Bair lived with his parents. Cops searched the home and broke the news to stunned relatives.

"You don't ever want to think it of your child being involved in something like that," Smith said at a Thursday press conference. "The initial shock, of someone coming to your door saying your son is dead. And a lot of the initial shock, a lot of the information was withheld from them."

Bair made his move Wednesday night, armed and carrying a knife, Smith said. He entered the story around 9:30 p.m. wearing a long heavy overcoat. A security guard who knew Bair became suspicious because he wasn't buying anything.

The Indiana shooter killed a shopper and supermarket employee before cops took him out Wednesday night. (Jon Garcia/The Elkhart Truth/AP)

"He took his time. I think he might have been hesitant while he was in the store. But whether he was watching people or picking out people, we'll never know," Smith said.

Bair killed his first victim, Dikes, who was restocking the grocery, around 10:05 p.m. She loved dogs and was "the closest friend I've ever had," wrote her friend, Natasha Sellers. Commenters on her page said she did not know the gunman.

Advertisement

After killing Dikes Bair stalked 12 aisles of the store and shot Godfread multiple times, Smith said.

Shawn Walter Bair's bizarre Facebook is an online catalog of unsettling imagery, admiration of serial killers and musings about going to hell in a blaze of glory. (Shawn Bair via Facebook)

Surveillance video showed Bair shot at another employee but missed as she made a getaway unharmed.

Two police officers happened to be nearby and were on the scene within three minutes and heard a gunshot as they entered the supermarket, Smith said. When the cops came upon Bair, he was pointing his gun at a store manager who was on his knees as if in prayer.

The madman then turned his gun toward the cops, who shot and killed him, ending the carnage as the manager fled for his life.

Officials praised the officers for acting quickly and preventing more deaths.

Three people, including the gunman, were killed after a shooting at Martin's Supermarket in Elkhart, Ind., Wednesday night. Out of respect, the store was closed Thursday. (Jon Garcia/The Elkhart Truth/AP)

"They were professional," said Smith. "They strategically cleared the store."

It didn't appear Bair knew his victims, according to reports. Police were still investigating his criminal background.

Advertisement

Elkhart is a town of 51,000 that's 15 miles south of South Bend, Ind.

Indiana State Police Sgt. Trent Smith said the gunman was pointing his gun at a third person when police confronted him. (The Elkhart Truth via YouTube)

Martin's said the store would be closed Thursday.

"The entire Martin's family is saddened by this tragedy," company president and CEO Rob Bartels said. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families involved and the entire community."

Tony Elkhart told The Elkhart Truth his mother had been working at the deli of the supermarket when the chaos unfolded.

He said she called him after being evacuated from the store.

"As reality set in, and her being upset, I knew something was wrong," Tony told the newspaper.

Advertisement

"It makes me feel angry, obviously. This world I guess is kind of screwed up right now. You can't even go to the grocery store and be safe."