LUDINGTON, MI -- A Michigan State Police trooper’s fatal shooting Jan. 14 of William Marble of Amber Township was justified, Mason County Prosecutor Paul Spaniola has ruled.

In a report released Thursday, Feb. 6, the prosecutor concluded that Trooper James Luttrull was acting in defense of himself and Trooper Alexander Hammerle when Luttrull shot Marble once in Marble’s home in the 1200 block of North Dennis Road.

Spaniola wrote an 18-page legal opinion that he provided Feb. 6 to First Lt. Kevin Leavitt, commander of the state police Hart post, and to news media.

According to both troopers, an apparently drunken Marble was pointing a pistol at them, and both feared for their lives when Luttrull fired from about 20 feet away. Marble’s Bursa .380 semi-automatic was retrieved at the scene.

There is audio of the incident from Luttrull’s body microphone, but no video showing the shooting, according to Spaniola’s report.

The autopsy report by Kent County Medical Examiner Dr. Stephen Cohle and observations by a doctor who treated Marble, 68, at a Ludington hospital appeared to support the troopers’ account, according to the prosecutor.

Besides a single gunshot wound in Marble’s right chest, doctors also found grazing wounds on fingers of Marble’s right hand, and a portion of the grip of his pistol was damaged with apparent blood stains on it.

The emergency room doctor who treated Marble, Dr. Alan Grillo, “hypothesized that Bill Marble had the gun in his right hand with his arm fully extended at or near shoulder height with his torso facing parallel to the troopers” when he was shot, Spaniola wrote.

The two troopers arrived at the home the evening of Jan. 14 after two calls from the home’s land line to Mason-Oceana 911 by Marble’s wife of four years, Nancy Marble, and a third, disconnected call to 911. She did not report being in danger but, with slurred speech, reported that her phone wasn’t working, Spaniola wrote.

Luttrull arrived first and, from outside the home, heard and recorded an argument between the couple, including “threats of violence” by William Marble, the prosecutor reported.

Eventually, after Hammerle arrived, Luttrull knocked on the door, and Nancy Marble opened it. Both troopers were in uniform, and their marked state police vehicles were outside.

Nancy Marble loudly announced “the police are here, Bill,” as she opened the door, Spaniola reported. After Luttrull had a “very brief” conversation with her, she called out for her husband and stepped aside.

William Marble came from another part of the house, holding the pistol in his right hand pointed at the troopers’ midsections, Spaniola concluded. The troopers drew their handguns. On the audio one of the troopers can be heard yelling “drop” twice, then Luttrull fired one shot, Spaniola wrote.

A United Parcel Service delivery person also told investigators that he had made a delivery at the Marble home the day before Thanksgiving 2013, wearing a brown UPS uniform, and that a man fitting Marble’s description answered the door with a gun pointed at the UPS man’s midsection. The delivery man did not report the incident to police at the time.

Based on the evidence, Spaniola concluded that Marble was pointing a handgun directly at the troopers when he was shot, and that deadly force was reasonable. Therefore, the prosecutor found the shooting legally justified.

The police investigation was principally done by Detective Sgt. Scott Rios and Detective Sgt. David Johnson of the Michigan State Police. Further investigation was done by Detective First Lt. Mike Anderson, Sgt. John Forner, Sgt. Denise Bentley, Sgt. Rob Davis and Sgt. Mike Stephens of the state police Sixth District headquarters in Rockford.

Assisting the investigation were Detective Sgt. Tom Posma of the Mason County Sheriff’s Office, the Scottville Police Department, the state police’s Grand Rapids Crime Laboratory, Cohle and Mason-Oceana 911.

John S. Hausman covers courts, prisons, the environment and local government for MLive/Muskegon Chronicle. Email him at jhausman@mlive.com and follow him on Twitter.