Chasing a suspected heroin dealer on a drizzly night — and speeding through red lights to catch him — Deputy Sheriff Jeremy Johnson realized in midpursuit that his siren wasn’t working.

Kentucky law requires police to use their lights and sirens during a chase. Without both, the chase is illegal.

Nevertheless, the Scott County, Kentucky, deputy continued — until the fleeing driver crashed head-on into another car, killing passenger Luiz Gonzalez immediately and causing the death of driver Geneva Spencer a few weeks later.

Gonzalez's son sued the Scott County Sheriff’s Office over the Jan. 14, 2014, collision, saying his father, a widower with six grandchildren, would still be alive if not for the unlawful chase.

But a trial judge threw out the suit and the Kentucky Court of Appeals "reluctantly" affirmed, citing a 65-year-old case that ruled that a police officer cannot be liable for any deaths or injuries to a third party during a pursuit because the officer is not the direct cause of the accident.

More Courier Journal headlines:Louisville police handcuffed a black teen for a wide turn, then told him to 'quit with the attitude'

"Police cannot be made insurers of the conduct of culprits they chase," Kentucky’s high court ruled in 1952, dismissing a case brought by the driver of a horse-drawn milk truck whose wagon was cut in two by a fleeing suspect chased by police in Owensboro.

But now the Kentucky Supreme Court will reconsider that ruling.

In a case to be argued Thursday, attorneys for the Gonzalez estate noted that Kentucky is one of only three states still "clinging to the ancient fallacy" that police should not be held responsible for deaths or injuries of suspects they chase in violation of rules and statutes.

As the Court of Appeals said in an opinion inviting the Supreme Court to act, "the public policy behind permitting police pursuits now competes with … the significant policy of protecting the public from the real and extreme dangers of such pursuits to innocent travelers."

The case comes as the number of deadly police chases is rising.

At least 416 people were killed nationwide in police chases in 2017 — a 22 percent increase from 2013, according to an analysis of National Highway Traffic Safety Administration data by FairWarning, a nonprofit news organization.

At least 13,000 people died in police pursuits from 1979 to 2017, more than 2,700 of whom were innocent bystanders, according to the data. A person is killed in about one out of every 200 chases.

According to a Courier Journal analysis of National Highway Transportation Safety Administration data, 20 people were killed in 19 police chases in Kentucky from 2013 to 2017, the last year for which records were available.

From October:Lawsuit: Police chase that left bystander dead shocks 'the conscience'

In the 2014 pursuit, Johnson chased Keenan McLaughlin, 21, from Scott to Fayette County after a controlled undercover drug buy.

McLaughlin ran away from the accident and was arrested after a standoff and charged with murder and drug trafficking. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter and drug possession and was sentenced to nine years in prison.

Attorneys for Johnson and Scott County Sheriff Tony Hampton said McLaughlin's conduct, not law enforcement, caused the deadly crash.

And the lawyers, D. Barry Stilz and Robert Stilz, note that even if the deputy had aborted the chase, there is no guarantee McLaughlin would have driven more safely. In fact, they say he ran a red light before the chase began.

Finally, the lawyers point out that the U.S. Supreme Court has said it is "loath to lay down a rule requiring police to allow fleeing suspects to get away whenever they drive so recklessly that they put other people's lives in danger" because of the "perverse incentives" such a rule would create.

"Every fleeing motorist would know that escape is within his grasp if only he accelerates to 90 mph, crosses the double-yellow line a few times and runs a few red lights,” the court said in a 2007 opinion.

More news:Louisville woman goes public about how a priest abused her 60 years ago

But lawyers for the Gonzalez estate said Johnson knew he was violating the law as well as the sheriff's department's practice and his own training when he continued the pursuit after realizing his siren didn't work.

They also say the sheriff's department knew the suspect's identity and where he lived, making the pursuit unnecessary and the deaths all the more tragic.

And those attorneys, William Garmer, Jerome Prather and John Norman, said in a brief that in the years since the 1952 ruling in the Ideal Pure Milk Co. case, Kentucky courts have recognized that "accidents usually don't have a single cause" and allowed juries to assign blame to multiple parties.

"A reasonable jury could and likely would find that Johnson’s pursuit was a substantial factor in causing Luis Gonalez’s death," they said in their brief.

The lawyers note that in Tennessee, one of dozens of states to drop the shield of immunity for officers in chases, the state’s Supreme Court said "in the final analysis a police officer's paramount duty is to protect the public."

Johnson testified that when he joined the sheriff’s department, it had no written policy on pursuit and "they just kind of turned us loose."

Hampton, the sheriff, didn't immediately respond to questions about whether it has a policy now.

More headlines:Traffic stops don't cut crime, study says. But LMPD insists they work

Reporter Allison Ross contributed to this story.

Andrew Wolfson: 502-582-7189; awolfson@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @adwolfson. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courier-journal.com/andreww.