A suspect who was shot and killed by deputies in Lake Elsinore Thursday night has been identified as a 28-year-old Mission Viejo man, according to the coroner's office.



The Riverside County coroner's office is reporting that Raymond Roberts was shot at 7:50 p.m. Jan. 16 and was pronounced dead moments later at 8:15 p.m. Four deputies opened fire on him, but the coroner's office did not report how many shots entered the man's body.



The fatal shooting began shortly before 6 p.m. Thursday after officers from the Lake Elsinore Police Department received a call about an armed suspect driving a gold colored Ford Crown Victoria. A partial license plate was provided as part of the description.



Nearly two hours later, an officer with the Lake Elsinore Police Department spotted a car matching the description parked at Tom's Burgers on Dexter Avenue.



Backup deputies arrived at the scene and police say they ordered the suspect, who was behind the wheel and was later identified as the 28-year-old Mission Viejo man, to get out of the car.



"The suspect ignored the officer’s commands and started the vehicle," according to a report from sheriff's Deputy Albert Martinez. "The officers asked the suspect to turn off the engine and the suspect refused to comply."



Martinez reported the suspect then shifted the car into reverse, backing up toward the officers.



"As an officer was attempting to move out of the path, the suspect’s vehicle ran over his foot," Martinez reported.



Four officers then fired on the suspect, Martinez said.



There was a female passenger inside the car but she was not injured, Martinez continued.



"She was questioned and released," he added.



Investigators from the Lake Elsinore Sheriff's Station and the Riverside County Sheriff's Department Central Homicide Unit responded to the scene and took over the investigation that lasted into the morning hours.



The one officer was treated for his injury, but there were no reports of other injuries.



All officers involved in the shooting have been placed on paid administrative leave per department policy and the investigation is continuing.