Handcuffed man, 20, 'drowned in canal as he ran from police after being caught driving a stolen car'

Alexandre 'Mozart' Nicolas, 20, drowned in a North Miami Beach canal about 5.30pm Saturday

Police say he was arrested for driving a stolen car



He ran, handcuffed, across eight lanes of traffic and jumped into the waterway to escape cops

His friends say he was the life of the party and a musical genius

A 20-year-old man arrested for driving a stolen car was handcuffed when he drowned in a Florida canal in a desperate bid to escape from police.



Alexandre 'Mozart' Nicolas allegedly sprinted across eight lanes of heavy traffic when police stopped and cuffed him in a parking lot near Biscayne Boulevard in North Miami Beach about 5pm Saturday.

With his hands bound, the North Miami Beach resident leaped into the canal but couldn't stay afloat.

A Sunny Isles Beach officer jumped into the waterway after him, but the aspiring musician could not be saved.

Tragic: Alex Nicolas, 20, was handcuffed when he drowned in a Florida canal in a desperate bid to escape from police on Saturday

Desperate: Alex Nicolas sprinted across eight lanes of traffic to escape police before jumping into a canal



Nicolas was rushed to Aventura Hospital where he died.



News of Nicolas's tragic death has stunned friends and family, who described the Alonzo and Tracy Mourning High School graduate as 'the life of the party' and close to his family.

He was nicknamed 'Mozart' for his love of music.



'This was a great person,' Frank Quiroz, one of Nicholas's former classmates, told WSVN.



'I met him in school. He was a great student. He was a great kid. Everybody loved him. Really, I'm not even lying when I tell you everybody loved this kid.'

Sam Goldberg, who said he was with Nicolas at Duffy’s Sports Grill on the causeway about an hour before the incident, remembered his friend as 'well-connected'.



'He was supposed to be with me. We left and went to the beach to watch sunset with friends...The waiter wouldn't even give him a drink. They were joking about it,' he told Miami Herald.

'He was very well connected. He was friends with everyone, and knew all the club owners. He wasn’t great off financially, but he liked very expensive things. He would never leave me behind.'



Scene: Nicolas was handcuffed when he jumped into a canal near 163rd Street and Biscayne Boulevard in North Miami Beach on Saturday

Scene: Police pulled Nicolas over in the parking lot of Area Code 55, a Brazilian steakhouse on Biscayne Boulevard at Northeast 163rd Street

Miami Herald reported Miami-Dade police pulled over Nicolas after a scanner identified the license plate on the older model Mercedes-Benz he was driving as stolen.



After Nicolas crossed the 163rd Street Causeway, cops stopped him in the parking lot of Area Code 55 at 16375 Biscayne Blvd.

Nicolas, who reportedly did not have a criminal history, was ordered out of the car and handcuffed before he fled.



'We have a car where the tag was identified as stolen, followed by identifying the vehicle as stolen,' Miami-Dade police spokesman Detective Roy Rutland said.



'At that point an officer clearly has probable cause to make an arrest.'

Party animal: Friends say Nicolas loved to party and was well-connected, but didn't have much money The Florida Department of Law Enforcement database shows Nicolas was charged with a non-moving traffic violation and driving with a suspended license on Saturday.

Police have not commented on why Nicolas ran from officers.

Sunny Isles Beach police have turned over the investigation to Miami-Dade police.

County officers will investigate the death before passing it on to the state attorney’s office, which will determine if there was any criminal wrongdoing by police.