SIOUX CITY | The Sioux City police officer involved in a fatal shooting three weeks ago is back at work.

In a report released Monday, the Iowa Attorney General’s Office found the SWAT Team member was acting within Iowa law when he shot and killed Felix Navarrete, 29, in the 2700 block of South Helen Street on Jan. 28. The SWAT Team was serving a warrant on Navarrete for a homicide in Sioux City three days earlier.

"Obviously, it was a tragic event that occurred,” said Sioux City Police Chief Doug Young. “And now we can move back toward a little bit of normalcy.”

The officer, whose name hasn’t been released, believed he saw a dark object in Navarrete’s hand when the suspect leaned out an upper-story window of an apartment, according to the report.

The officer, who was standing outside while other SWAT members entered the apartment, shot Navarrete in the shoulder. Navarrete fell from the second-story window onto the ground and then was shot with a stun gun by other officers waiting outside, according to the report.

The Remington .308-caliber bullet went through Navarrete’s shoulder and lungs and severed his spinal cord. He was dead when he got to the hospital.

A loaded handgun was found tucked into the back of Navarrete’s pants, the report said.

It’s unclear whether the gun was the dark object the officer thought he saw in Navarrete’s hand. No dark-colored item was found on the ground near the body.

Special Assistant Attorney General Scott Brown said Navarrete had time to tuck the gun into his waistband after using it to break out the window. The officer also may have seen a window shard or a piece of curtain pulled through the glass, Brown said.

“To wait could have caused further injury or loss of life,” Brown wrote of the officer’s decision to shoot. “The officer was legitimately reasonably concerned for the life and safety of other officers not only on the ground below the window, but others in the area that would have been in serious jeopardy if Navarrete were able to escape the apartment.”

Police haven’t released the officer’s name, citing safety reasons.

The officer returned to work last week after passing the required psychological evaluation and debriefing by the department’s crisis team, Young said.

Navarrete was a suspect in the fatal shooting of Rodney Houston, 35, on West 27th Street on Jan. 25. Another man also was injured in the incident. That case is still under investigation.