A truck sits outside a convenience store where two delivery men dropped off beer before being robbed at gunpoint. The suspected robber was fatally shot by a Milwaukee police officer shortly after the robbery. Credit: Jesse Garza

By of the

An armed robbery suspect was fatally shot by a Milwaukee police officer Wednesday after pulling a gun on the officer during a struggle on the city's northwest side, according to Police Chief Edward Flynn.

The suspect, who had not been identified Wednesday night, was shot shortly after 5:30 p.m. by a uniformed officer behind a house in 5300 block of N. 58th St., Flynn told reporters near the scene.

According to Flynn, about 5:30 p.m. two beer delivery men were robbed at gunpoint in the 5800 block of W. Villard Ave.

After the robbery was reported, police saturated the area and an officer spotted the suspect, who began to run.

The officer chased the suspect, who ran behind a house, where the officer caught up to him and attempted to arrest him, Flynn said.

As the two began to struggle, the robbery suspect pulled a loaded Glock semiautomatic handgun on the officer, who pulled out his service weapon and shot the suspect, who was pronounced dead at the scene, Flynn said.

The suspect's gun, which had been reported stolen in another state, a face mask and cash taken during the robbery were recovered, Flynn said.

The officer was in harm's way and the suspect clearly presented a danger to him, Flynn said.

"An armed robbery had just occurred and (the robbery suspect) was heavily armed," Flynn said.

"There was no alternative."

The officer who shot the suspected robber is a 30-year-old, nine-year veteran of the Police Department assigned to police District 7, Flynn said.

He will be placed on administrative duty while the shooting is under investigation, Flynn said.

Investigators from the Milwaukee County district attorney's office, the Milwaukee County medical examiner's office and Fire and Police Commission Executive Director Michael Tobin were on the scene of the shooting Wednesday night, the chief said.

A clerk at a nearby convenience store said the delivery men had just dropped off beer at the store shortly before the shooting.

The clerk, who did not want to be identified, said he wondered why the truck had not left and, after a time, walked outside.

It was then, the clerk said, that he heard of the robbery.