An off-duty Chicago police officer fatally shot a 56-year-old robbery suspect at a Walgreens store in the Jefferson Park neighborhood on the Northwest Side, according to authorities.

The officer walked into the store in the 5200 block of North Milwaukee Avenue around 10:30 a.m. Monday to use the ATM machine while his wife and two children waited in the car, according to Fraternal Order of Police spokesman Patrick Camden, citing preliminary information.

Advertisement

The officer became suspicious when he saw a female employee "frantically" stashing money in a bag behind the counter while a large man stood in front of the register, Camden said. "It's not an every day, common scene," he said.

The officer, assigned to the Near West District and has been with the department for 11 years, walked toward the man, identified himself as an officer and asked the man to get down, Camden said. The man knelt down, but said he wasn't going to be arrested and the officer would have to shoot him, according to Camden. The man then reached into his pocket as if he had a gun, he said.

Advertisement

According to a statement by the Chicago Police news affairs office, there was a struggle and the officer discharged his weapon "in fear for his life."

Police recovered what appeared to be a semi-automatic handgun from the scene, Camden said.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

The suspect, described as weighing more than 300 pounds, fits the description of a robber who robbed the same store on Jan. 26 and a nearby Dollar Tree store recently, as well as a Dunkin Donuts near Belmont and Austin avenues, police said.

The suspect was taken in critical condition to Advocate Lutheran General Hospital after being shot in the upper body, Camden said. The man, whose name was not available pending notification of his family, was pronounced dead at 1:06 p.m., according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

The shooting occurred down the street from the Jefferson Park District police station.

Tribune reporter Rosemary Regina Sobol contributed.

jgorner@tribune.com

csadovi@tribune.com

Advertisement

nrajwani@tribune.com