Karl Etters

Democrat staff writer

A final report on a deadly February gunfight at the Timberland Ford dealership in Perry shows the gunman, Earl Edward Clague Jr., set out to kill, though his motives remain unclear.

Clague, a Timberland employee, called the dealership earlier in the day to say he would not be at work. Around 10:20 a.m., he crashed his Nissan truck into the showroom.

He opened fire with a semi-automatic shotgun there and in an adjoining office, injuring two employees, John Mahoney and Mike Cook, along with Robert Lundy, a Taylor County Sheriff's deputy.

Lundy was having his patrol car serviced at the time. He has since been praised as a hero who saved lives by his quick actions.

According to the report released Wednesday by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, Clague called his wife just prior to the incident, telling her he "was going to kill somebody."

She told FDLE investigators she was unaware of any turmoil at the dealership where Clague worked in the parts department.

Clague was killed by Lundy in the incident. The deputy was cleared by a Taylor County grand jury in March that found his use of force was justified.

According to witnesses, after Clague shot two employees inside the dealership, he fired twice at Lundy from less than 10 feet away as the two met near the service bay.

Lundy returned fire and knocked the man to the ground.He fired a total of eight times.

Clague continued to reach for the shotgun at his side and Lundy fired four more shots, according to the report.

Investigators found a second shotgun and a .22 caliber rifle, along with several boxes of ammunition, in Clague's truck.

Multiple 12 gauge shotgun shells were found near his body, as if they had fallen out of his pockets, according to the report.

Clague died at the scene.

During an autopsy, medical examiners determined he was shot twice, once near his right shoulder and a second time in the armpit. The second wound lodged near his spine, but medical examiners said either of the wounds could have been fatal.

Lundy, Cook and Mahoney have continued to recover from injuries sustained in the incident.