Matthew Casey

The Republic | azcentral.com

Glendale police have released a report on a deadly officer-involved shooting

Officers didn't know for sure who they had apprehended

Police fired 20 shots at the wanted man in a crowded parking lot

Just over a year ago, members of the Glendale Police Department's elite fugitive apprehension squad were investigating twin brothers with criminal histories.

Michael Shane Ross (wanted for misconduct involving weapons and drug paraphernalia) and Stephen Wayne Ross (wanted for fraud and forgery) would sometimes claim to be the other twin when contacted by police.

So when the squad tracked one of them to a crowded Glendale strip mall, they weren't sure who it was in the Ford F-150 truck. Police surrounded the truck with undercover vehicles, but the man in the truck tried to ram his way out.

As smoke from burning tires enveloped the vehicles and the truck began to break free, detectives said they saw him reach for something they thought could be a weapon and made the split-second decision to use their guns.

Officers fired 20 shots at about 10 a.m. on Feb. 6, 2014, and Stephen Wayne Ross — identified later by tattoos and fingerprints — was pronounced dead at a Valley hospital.

A national dialogue on use of force by law enforcement started last year when a Ferguson, Mo., police officer shot an unarmed teenager. The West Valley had at least four officer-involved shootings in 2014, with three suspects killed.

Across the entire Valley, officers fired their weapons in 53 incidents during 2014, and at least 19 people were killed, according to data compiled by The Republic. That's a decrease in police shootings of about 36 percent compared with 2013. There have been five officer-involved shootings so far this year in the Valley that resulted in five deaths.

Details on Valley officer-involved shootings typically emerge slowly, and a Glendale Police Department report on what happened the day detectives shot Ross highlights these situations' fluidity, the importance of officer training and the challenge of making quick decisions when there is little or no margin for error.

20 shots fired

Authorities had been searching for the Ross twins for days, records show. They'd placed a tracking device on the F-150 when it sat at a Glendale home near Bethany Home Road and 43rd Avenue. The truck had been driven around the East Valley for much of the night before the shooting.

But unbeknownst to squad members, which included veteran detectives and a federal agent, the other twin brother, Michael, had been in Maricopa County's Towers Jail since November 2013, or about three months.

Officers thought he was still loose because Michael Ross' felony warrant was from another county, records show. He is now serving a 41/ 2 -year sentence for misconduct involving weapons, according to the Arizona Department of Corrections.

Police originally planned to apprehend the man they believed may have been Michael Ross outside of the vehicle in a Safeway parking lot near 59th Avenue and Thunderbird Road, records show. But they had to change plans when he got back into the truck.

Glendale police Detective Jim Carlo then blocked the truck from the front, records show. He told detectives he saw the suspect reach for something inside the truck that he thought was a weapon and he fired until Stephen stopped moving. Carlo fired a total of 16 shots, emptying his sidearm from the driver's seat of his undercover vehicle before firing his assault rifle.

A deputy U.S. Marshal fired four shots at Ross from the passenger side of the truck, after he said he saw Ross reach for something he thought was a gun.

Investigators later found a toy pistol in the F-150's center console. A dog that was in the truck was uninjured, records show. Police also found a black wig, several fake $100 bills as well as an Arizona identification card and Social Security card for the incarcerated brother, Michael, in the truck.

A Glendale police investigation determined the shooting was justified. An additional review by the Maricopa County Attorney's Office concluded the officers didn't do anything that warrants criminal prosecution.

Police followed training

Tempe-based attorney Scott Halverson has tried cases where police are accused of using excessive force, but said this would not be a case he would take because it would be very difficult to prove that Ross' actions didn't make Carlo concerned for his life.

"Most officers are upstanding, upright, use good judgment and want to do the right thing," he said.

Still, Halverson said police know there is low risk of getting in trouble in shootings because they have qualified immunity — protection from liability for doing their job — and jurors generally prefer law enforcement over criminals.

"There are a lot of times where officers rush to get a quick resolution," Halverson said. "Sometimes that causes more danger to officers and others."

It's "quite reasonable" to give police the benefit of the doubt when they shoot, but the percentage of police killed in the line of duty has decreased faster than the percentage of civilians killed by police since the 1970s, according to Franklin E. Zimring, professor of law at the University of California Berkeley Law school.

In 2013, 461 suspected felons were killed by police officers nationwide, the highest number since 1991, according to USA Today.

The best way to control use of deadly force by police isn't prosecution of officers, Zimring said, but better training from management about when police should start shooting and when to stop.

Glendale police use a simulator that can produce roughly 500 scenarios that train officers how to respond in different situations — everything from bank robberies to traffic stops — as well as when and what type of force to use. Officers train with the simulator annually.

Two ways to analyze the appropriateness of an officer-involved shooting are to examine sequence of shots fired and how many times a suspect is shot, according to David Klinger an associate professor at the University of Missouri-St. Louis.

"Shooting into vehicles, because you can't see everything, is a challenging enterprise," said Klinger, a former police officer and an expert on use of deadly force.

Investigators reviewed cellphone videos of the incident with Ross and interviewed witnesses, records show. A detective described the shot sequence as "slow and methodical." A witness said they heard 2-3 gunshots, a pause, 2-3 more, another pause, and then an additional 2-3 shots. Stephen died of multiple gunshot wounds.

Klinger said the officers' action in firing their weapons "sounds to be an appropriate use of deadly force because it's consistent with how officers are trained."

The twins' parents, Gary and Kay Ross, did not respond to a request for an interview.

Republic reporters Henry Molski and Katie Bieri contributed to this article.



