Tony Grein was trying to defend his sister when he was severely bitten on his face. (www.palmbeachpost.com)

Deputies in Florida shot dead a naked psycho high on drugs after he bit a teen's face off in a random street attack.

Anesson Joseph, 28 — described by witnesses as having "super strength" and "obviously on something" — went on the rampage on South Military Trail in Delray Beach at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday.

Advertisement

First he badly beat retired New York City cop Douglas Kozlik, 66, who happened to be walking down the street with his 10-year-old son, according to CBS 12 News.

Anesson Joseph, 28, above, began attacking people seemingly at random on Tuesday night. (Facebook)

He then chased another child, before clashing with her 18-year-old brother Tony Grein — who tried to defend himself with a box cutter but was severely bitten on the head, the TV station reports.

Advertisement

Deputies from Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office arrived and tasered Joseph — who was 6-foot-3 and weighs 250 pounds — but he continued ranting and raving.

The Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office tasered the naked 6-foot-3, 250-pound man — but he kept ranting. That's when they shot him. (WPTV)

One cop opened fire and shot the West Palm Beach resident in the torso and twice on his lower body. Injured, he was taken to Delray Medical Center where he later died.

An investigation has now been launched into whether Joseph died from the gunshot wounds or a medical condition.

Tony Grein, 18, was trying to defend his little sister when he got in the psycho's path. (WPTV)

An autopsy will also reveal if he had taken any narcotics. Cops are trying to piece together details of his life.

Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw told the Palm Beach Post, however, that the attacker was "obviously delirious on something."

Anesson Joseph, 28, was naked an 'obviously on something' when he started going wild on the South Military Trail. (WPTV)

"The people he assaulted … said this guy had like super human strength," he added.

"But he's a big guy to start with. He's not fat, he looks like an NFL linebacker. And he basically was terrorizing people all up and down this street."

Authorities are trying to determine whether Anesson Joseph, 28, above, died from his gunshot wounds or a medical condition. (Facebook)

Kozlik and Grein were both taken to hospital for treatment to their "serious" injuries. Kozlik's condition is currently unknown.

Advertisement

Grein was out of hospital Wednesday sporting stitches on his ear as well as visible cuts and bruising.

The random attack echoes that of Miami cannibal Rudy Eugene, who was shot dead by cops in 2012 after chewing off homeless man Ronald Poppo's face.