Police have identified the man who stabbed two passengers with a box cutter aboard a tour bus traveling from New York's Chinatown to a Connecticut casino on Tuesday as 32-year-old Ye Hua Jian, of Chinatown.

A Connecticut state trooper shot and killed Ye after the tour bus driver flagged him down for help on Interstate 95 northbound in Norwalk on Tuesday night.

Police said Ye was involved in a disturbance on a Dahlia bus carrying about two dozen people and stabbed a man and a woman, then started cutting himself around 10 p.m. Tuesday.

Several passengers called 911 for help, but before police could arrive, the bus pulled into a construction zone near exit 14 off I-95 northbound and hailed Trooper First Class Marc O'Mara, who was working at the site, according to police.

As O'Mara approached the bus, Ye and a passenger with whom he was fighting fell from the bus onto the pavement, police said. O'Mara ordered Ye to drop the box cutter, but he refused and advanced toward the trooper.

O'Mara opened fire, shooting Ye and wounding the passenger involved in the fight. State police said it's not clear whether the second bullet struck the passenger directly or ricocheted off the pavement.

Ye and the injured passengers received medical aid at the scene and were rushed to the hospital, where Ye died, according to police.

The Office of the Chief State's Medical Examiner in Farmington will examine the body to determine Ye's cause of death, according to state police.

Police said O'Mara was not injured but was taken to the hospital for an evaluation.

Witnesses were driven from the scene in buses to be interviewed by police. Authorities said a State Police Major Crime Squad is investigating.

O'Mara, a 10-year veteran of the state police assigned to Troop A in Southbury, will assume administrative duties throughout the investigation, per department policy.

I-95 northbound was shut down throughout the night between exits 13 and 15 but reopened at about 5:30 a.m. Wednesday.

Connecticut State Police said they're dealing with a language barrier as they investigate because several passengers are of Asian descent.

The case remains under investigation.