On March 1, 2014, at approximately 1:33 a.m., Police Officers Stephen Baldwin #9575, Colin Trombetta #10225, Shaun Renfro #10263, Jeremy Pulliam #9074, Brandon Stephens #9280, Cindy Alvarado #10420, Senior Corporals Troy Klinglesmith #6414, and Shannon Browning #9129 responded to a Disturbance Armed Encounter call at 3639 Colonial Avenue.

Upon arrival, officers saw a crowd outside the Cowboy Bar and as they exited their patrol cars, patrons began shouting that there was a Crazy Guy inside. Officers entered the bar and found the interior to have tables overturned, pool cues broken, and other signs that there had been a disturbance inside. They observed Suspect Mario Evans, laying naked on the floor, sweating profusely, and rolling around on the floor. Suspect Evans also had a small laceration under his right arm, on his torso, which appeared to be a stab wound.

Suspect Evans was shouting Whoever stabbed me, its on. Witnesses reported several unknown suspects beat the suspect with their fist and pool cues before DPD officers arrived. while Suspect Evans got up and began acting aggressively towards the officers and would not comply with verbal commands.

Officers believed that Suspect Evans was on an unknown type of drugs and was in a state of excited delirium. Suspect Evans pushed Senior Corporal Klinglesmith into the wall and then closed his fists and began moving towards Officer Pulliam in an aggressive manner. Officer Renfro discharged his taser at the Suspect but it had no effect.

Suspect Evans was taken to the ground by Officer Pulliam, but it required multiple officers to hold him down and get him handcuffed. Officers called for an ambulance for Suspect Evans and Dallas Fire Rescue #6 responded to the scene.

Due to the agitated state of Suspect Evans, officers were unable to place him on his back on the gurney so he was placed on his stomach and strapped down by the paramedics. Suspect Evans became medically distressed enroute to Parkland Memorial Hospital. Suspect Evans underwent surgery for his stab wound but was pronounced deceased at 11:25 a.m. Parkland Memorial Hospital personnel stated that Suspect Evans tested positive for cocaine and marijuana during their testing procedures.

Cause of death is pending the DCME examiner's report.