Lou Whitmire and Todd Hill

ASHLAND – A police pursuit that ended in a fatal crash early Tuesday did not involve high speeds until near the end, Ashland’s police chief said.

The Ashland Police Department and Ashland County post of the Ohio Highway Patrol are investigating a fatality that happened early Tuesday on Ohio 89 in Jackson Township. The incident began as a pursuit in the city of Ashland.

Shane Vanmeter, 27, of West Salem, was pronounced dead at the scene by the Ashland County Coroner’s Office.

The incident started at 3:08 a.m. Tuesday when an officer from the Ashland Police Department reported a vehicle pursuit that resulted from a traffic violation. The pursuit started downtown and continued on U.S. 250 east and then onto Ohio 89 north. The Ashland County Sheriff’s Office assisted.

“The officers attempted to stop the vehicle because of suspicion of driving while impaired. He didn’t stop, so then it was also a matter of failure to comply,” said Ashland police Chief David Marcelli.

“It wasn’t a TV, high-speed chase,” he said. “The officers called in speed and traffic conditions back to the shift commander, who was also continually requesting them. There was no traffic, and the pursuit was at speeds of just 50 to 55 mph.”

Marcelli said Vanmeter didn’t start accelerating until he was north of the village of Polk, and actually stopped at a stop sign at Ohio 89 and U.S. 42, and then again later on 89.

Vanmeter was driving a 1994 Chevrolet Camaro north on Ohio 89 just north of County Road 620, according to the patrol. He went off the right side of the road, struck a tree and was partially ejected from the vehicle, which became engulfed in flames, the report said.

The sheriff’s office took over the pursuit once it continued outside Ashland, per standard procedure, Marcelli said. Ashland police officers stayed with the pursuit as well. The patrol responded to the crash report.

Polk Jackson firefighters and EMS assisted. Ohio 89 was closed at County Road 620 for about three hours.

Vanmeter was not wearing a seat belt, and alcohol may have been a factor in the crash, according to the news release.