STEVE NASH steve.nash@brownwoodbulletin.com

It was, as Brownwood Mayor Stephen Haynes noted early in the Brownwood City Council meeting Tuesday morning, "the item of the day."

Haynes was referring to the agenda item that had brought a larger-than-normal audience to the council chambers and prompted several people to sign up to speak.

"Presentation and discussion regarding the Willis Creek Channelization Project."

Haynes, giving an overview, reminded audience members that only decision that will soon come before the council is whether to fund the $200,000 cost for a U.S. Army Corps of Engineer study. The study would determine the feasibility of a channelization project on Willis Creek.

City officials have said about 400 structures in the Willis Creek area would be placed in FEMA's 100-year flood plain if the agency adopts its new flood plain maps as proposed. That could require property owners with mortgages to face increased flood insurance premiums, officials have said.

"This issue has been caused by FEMA," Haynes said at Tuesday's council meeting. "FEMA has chosen to raise the elevation of the flood plain. That effectively put areas of our town into the flood plain that were not previously so designated. That causes a major problem for our residents" because of the specter of high-cost flood insurance, Haynes said.

"So what happens, as your flood insurance rates go up, it effectively is, in my opinion a tax … the federal government is essentially levying a tax on these homes, and the problem is, it is not universal …

"To me, the argument is very strong that some remedy needs to be taken on behalf of those who, in my opinion, were treated unfairly because they purchased a home on one precept and at set of conditions, and they're being forced to live under changed (conditions)."

The city, Haynes said, is being asked to address a problem the city did not create.

And if the city does go forward with the study, Haynes said, the next decision — on whether to ask the Corps of Engineers to complete the multi-million-dollar channelization — would be pale in comparison. Haynes said current estimates are that the city's portion of the cost would be $4.5 million.

That's more than the city has spent on recent city improvement projects, including building a new central fire station and street paving projects over the past 10 years.

"When we look at what our priorities are, we have to say, is this the thing …" Haynes said. He said he thinks it will be worth the money for the city to spend $200,000 on the study — and if the study is done, he said, "there may be some steps we can do over the years that will gradually alleviate the problem."

After several speakers addressed the council, Haynes said he hasn't seen this kind of "discourse on issues that need discussion" in his four-plus years as mayor.