Chicago police Officer David Harris was driving home after a late shift working some of the city's most violent streets when a van fleeing a suburban cop plowed into his car early Friday, killing the 10 1/2-year department veteran.

The circumstances of the chase from Calumet Park to Chicago's South Side remained under investigation, but WGN-TV reported that Calumet Park Police Chief Mark Davis said an order had been issued to stop the police pursuit of the van before the fatal crash. It was unclear whether the officer discontinued the pursuit immediately.

Advertisement

In an interview with the Tribune, Davis identified the patrol officer involved in the pursuit as Jerald Nettles and said he had been placed on desk duty while the department reviews if its pursuit policy was properly followed.

"The standard policy is if the danger to public safety outweighs the public threat, it should be terminated," Davis said. "Whether the policy was followed, we have to investigate."

Advertisement

Harris, who was assigned to a special "saturation" team tasked to hot spots on the South Side, was off-duty and about 15 minutes from his home when the white van slammed into his black Lexus, pushing it against a light pole at the corner of 87th Street and South Lafayette Avenue shortly before 1 a.m. Friday, police said. He died at the scene, authorities said.

Harris, 42, who leaves a wife and two young sons, was known as an "aggressive copper's cop" who once exchanged gunfire with a bank robber, according to a former police chief of Maywood, where Harris worked before he joined Chicago police.

Calumet Park police were questioning the van's driver after she was treated for a broken arm, while a passenger was taken to Stroger Hospital under police guard to undergo surgery for more serious injuries, according to Davis. He also said several bags of marijuana were recovered in the van.

High-speed pursuits have long been part of police practice and lore — from the famed car chase in "The French Connection" to Wild West sheriffs pursuing bandits on horseback.

Over the last decade and more, many police departments across the country toughened policies on when pursuits could be undertaken because of the dangers posed to innocent drivers and pedestrians, according to Geoffrey Alpert, a criminologist at the University of South Carolina.

Pursuits are usually permitted only when a suspect poses an immediate threat to the community.

In 2003, months after a pregnant pedestrian was hit and killed by a car being chased by a Chicago cop over a stolen wallet, the department changed its rules to prohibit pursuits if the most serious suspected crime was a theft or traffic violation.

"Every time you are running through an intersection, you are playing Russian roulette," said Alpert, an expert in police pursuit procedures. "You have one person who is fleeing apprehension whose eyes are glued on the rearview mirror. You have a cop who is chasing. And you have innocent bystanders who have no clue what is going on."

Advertisement

Nettles has worked for eight different police departments since 2001, many of them in part-time positions mostly in the south suburbs, according to an Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board database.

Davis commended Nettles' performance in Calumet Park, where he said he has worked for about five years.

"He's one of our top officers in terms of productivity," he said.

The van's driver, a 31-year-old woman who has never had a driver's license, has been stopped several times for driving without a license, speeding and disregarding stop or yield signs, according to the Illinois secretary of state's office. She has a history of retail theft and shoplifting charges and convictions in Cook County, according to court records.

The passenger, a 33-year-old man, also has a history of drug-related charges and convictions in Cook County, records show.

A witness to the high-speed chase said the driver of the van kept driving off and back onto the Dan Ryan Expressway in an apparent attempt to elude the police car.

Advertisement

After the crash, police closed down the bridge spanning the expressway and blocked traffic on Lafayette, a southbound one-way street, three blocks north of the crash. Near the exit of the expressway, a line of red flares stretched across the street early Friday morning. Uniformed and plainclothes officers gathered near Harris' mangled car.

Police cars escorted the ambulance carrying the officer's body to the morgue, where a line of officers was waiting.

Chicago police said Harris earned 87 department awards, including two commendations, a joint operations award and a unit meritorious performance award.

Harris worked for Maywood police from 1997 until 2003.

"He was one of our best guys," said Tim Curry, the former police chief. "We knew he had potential. We weren't surprised that he would end up going to a bigger police department."

Maywood police spokesman Pirsia Allen described Harris as "a man of God" who saw his share of danger while patrolling the streets of a suburb that often sees flare-ups in violent crime. He also specialized in gang and narcotics investigations, Allen said

Advertisement

In 2001, Harris exchanged gunfire with one of two robbers during a bank holdup, Allen said. The robbers escaped but were eventually arrested by the FBI.

"He wanted to make a difference when he was with the Maywood Police Department," said Allen. "He was an officer that took his job seriously...whether it was Maywood or Chicago."

Throughout Friday, a uniformed Chicago police officer stood guard outside Harris' single-story Scottsdale neighborhood home as colleagues and neighbors filed in and out, expressing their condolences to his family.

His next-door neighbor, Bill Burns, shared fond memories of Harris with reporters, including how he would inform neighbors about crimes that had recently occurred in the area. The officer would also clear Burns' driveway with a snowblower. Burns recalled how the two joked about the harsh winter.

"A good man, a good father. And to leave a young wife with two young boys like that, it's just tragic," he said.

C.W. Harris, no relation to the officer, lives a few houses from the family and also described Harris as a "hard-working family man" who often went out of his way to help people.

Advertisement

Harris said he happened to be awake around 4 a.m. Friday and saw news of the crash and an image of a car that resembled the officer's black Lexus. He said he rushed to his window to see if Harris' car was parked where it normally would be. It wasn't.

"I would always tell him when he was going to work, I'd tell him to be safe," Harris said. "You don't think it's going to happen the way it did. We all are just devastated by the news."

Tribune reporters Naheed Rajwani, Joe Mahr, Rosemary Regina Sobol, Carlos Sadovi, Steve Schmadeke and Cynthia Dizikes contributed.

jgorner@tribune.com

eleventis@tribune.com

asege@tribune.com