Fugitive Kelly Vern Mark Swoboda kept notes in his pants pocket, listing the young girls he'd watch in Eugene, Klamath Falls, Clackamas and Portland, their hair color, locations and days of the week he saw them, and how he rated them, according to a Portland homicide detective.

If they were driving a car, Swoboda jotted down their license plates. If the women or girls were alone, he'd make note of that, and the time he spotted them.

On one note, for example, he wrote of a "brunette" from Oregon Episcopal School, seen by the tennis courts, who he gave a rating of 8, according to Multnomah County grand jury transcripts released Monday.

Detectives found notes about 17 females and tried to contact the ones where license plates were identified to make sure they were not harmed, Portland Det. Erik Kammerer told grand jurors.

A bulletin law enforcement had distributed as they sought Kelly Vern Mark Swoboda in connection with a late January kidnapping of a woman from the Oak Grove area.

Multnomah County prosecutor Brian Davidson asked the detective, 'What does this all mean, in your professional experience and opinion?''

Kammerer testified, "He's making notes on people that he finds, I don't want to use the word 'attractive,' people he's interested in for the purposes of abducting them and doing whatever he's going to do to them.''

There was evidence from the notes that Swoboda had spent time doing surveillance of girls or young women outside a dance studio in Eugene, writing something down about a "ballerina.'' He spent time driving near Wilson High School, just to the south of Capitol Highway and Sunset Boulevard; wrote of girls he watched along Southwest Cheltenham to Westwood, and along Southwest Scholls Ferry.

The detective suspected that Swoboda sat in the parking lot of Clackamas Town Center, writing notes on women he saw show up to work.

"He sees them arrive. He makes notes of what they look like, what their license plate is. We think he followed one of them home later that night,'' Kammerer testified.

The testimony was part of a 312-page grand jury transcript released Monday, which described what led up to the Portland police fatal shooting of Swoboda on March 12. Swoboda got into a shootout with Portland Officer John Romero. Swoboda, shot three times, died at the scene from a bullet wound to the chest. Romero was shot in the hand and is recovering.

By the time Swoboda was fatally shot, law enforcement had identified the 49-year-old through DNA as the suspect wanted in the kidnapping of a female employee of the

The 23-year-old victim of the kidnapping was critically injured in the attack, having been pistol-whipped, her ankles and wrists bound with duct tape and dragged into a minivan by Swoboda. The woman escaped by jumping out of the moving vehicle, but suffered "multiple skull fractures."

During an autopsy on Swoboda, investigators said two ropes were found in his pockets. Detectives suspect he planned to use ropes on his next attack, since the duct tape didn't work in the January assault, according to the transcripts.

Clackamas County Sheriff's Det. Mary Nunn told grand jurors that she had never seen anything like the insides of the green van Swoboda had been driving, found parked ultimately on Portland's Southwest Dewitt Street.

A prosecutor suggested Swoboda had converted the van into a "moveable dungeon'' or "torture chamber.'' Inside, investigators found chains mounted to the floor in back, ropes, zip ties, a box of latex gloves, an old saw, 11 pornographic DVDs and pornographic teen magazines.

"What are you thinking when you see all of this?'' prosecutor Brian Davidson asked Nunn.

"I'm thinking exactly that one victim got away,'' Nunn testified, "and he wasn't going to let the next one get away.''

--Maxine Bernstein