D.S. Woodfill

12 News

In the days and weeks following the fatal Phoenix police shooting of a mentally ill woman, much of the discussion and outrage was directed at how officers handled the mental-health call involving Michelle Cusseaux, and the need for increased officer training and resources available for mentally ill people in the criminal-justice system.

Investigators are still working through the details of that August shooting, but records recently released from another fatal Phoenix police shooting involving a naked man who was fighting with officers when he was shot and killed highlight some of the challenges police face when dealing with impaired suspects, whether they're mentally ill, high or both.

The death of 26-year-old Luis Raul Suarez Jr. on March 13 did not draw the same public criticism. Experts widely agreed that the two officers — Officer Caroline Heaps and Sgt. John Delamater — did everything by the book after Suarez attacked them at his home near 51st Street and Virginia Avenue.

Some mental-health advocates and experts, however, said the case highlights the police's inability to help certain people who are exhibiting signs of a mental break with reality, along with a general lack of awareness among family members of better options than calling 911.

Situation escalates

Delamater was the first to arrive after Suarez's father, Luis Raul Suarez Sr., called police and said his son was acting strangely and had stripped naked before entering a neighbor's yard, according to a recently released police report.

When Delamater arrived, Suarez Jr. was in the shower. Suarez Sr. asked his son to come out, and the young man complied.

"Sgt. Delamater realized there would be a problem because Raul's eyes looked 'crazed and devilish,' " the report said.

Delamater tried talking calmly to Suarez Jr., asking "how he was doing," according to the report.

Suarez Jr. then dropped to the floor and began "walking around like a monkey." According to Delamater, Suarez Jr. told him he was on heroin and another drug, but Delamater didn't know what. He said Suarez Jr. wasn't making sense.

It was then, Delamater said, that Suarez Jr. reached for his Taser, and the sergeant "slapped" his hand away.

"Delamater attempted to (defuse) the situation and told Raul in a low tone of voice to relax and keep calm," the report said. "Raul repeatedly attempted to grab both Sgt. Delamater's gun and Taser."

The sergeant grabbed Suarez Jr.'s arm and told him to "knock it off." Delamater said he tried telling the man he was only there to help.

Heaps, who arrived at the house after Delamater, told investigators that the sergeant was trying to convince Suarez Jr. to put clothes on when she arrived.

Suarez Jr. began saying things like "I'm nuts" and threatened to kill Delamater, the report said. Heaps told Delamater he should put Suarez Jr. in handcuffs but then began to cuff Suarez Jr. herself, telling him, "We are your friends" and "We're here to help you."

Heaps was able to get one handcuff on Suarez Jr. before he started to resist, the report said.

The confrontation soon turned physical. The officers tried striking Suarez Jr. to no effect, and Heaps attempted a carotid hold. Both officers fired their Tasers.

Nothing seemed to work, according to the officers' accounts. Heaps said Suarez Jr.'s strength was "incredible."

Finally, with both officers' backs against a bed, Suarez Jr. raised his fists with the handcuffs on one wrist and advanced toward the officers from about 5 feet away, according to Heaps.

She was reaching for her gun "when she heard Sgt. Delamater fire one round as Raul was aggressively advancing towards them," Heaps reported.

Department officials declined to talk about the shooting. A police spokesman said by e-mail that the internal investigation is not complete.

Out of options

Russell Richelsoph, a local defense attorney and frequent critic of use-of-force tactics by police, said the Suarez case "is an example where the cops did everything right."

"Unfortunately, they walked into a situation with an individual who probably had some mental-health issues, and on top of that, was using drugs," Richelsoph said, adding that the sergeant "really believed that he was out of options. The guy wasn't going to comply, and they were in danger."

It's not clear what, if any drugs, Suarez Jr. had taken. Toxicology results are not yet available from the Maricopa County Office of the Medical Examiner.

Richelsoph cited attempts by both officers to settle Suarez down instead of immediately resorting to force.

"It's a pretty textbook (example) of the continuum of force," he said.

Bill Richardson, a retired Mesa Police Department detective who investigated homicides and officer-involved shootings, agreed.

"It was obvious they didn't want to kill him," Richardson said. "The sergeant used deadly force as a last resort to save his own life."

Richardson added that Delamater's injuries, which included a concussion and bruises, showed there was a violent struggle "that could've potentially resulted in his being beaten to death or being seriously and permanently injured."

He added that once the suspect was able to break away from officers while being handcuffed, the uncuffed portion "becomes an extremely dangerous and deadly weapon due to the sharp edges and pointed tip of the handcuff."

Jim Dunn, executive director of the local chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, said while the officers were not out of line, "I always wonder why the sense of urgency and determination to get compliance."

"(It's) not worth a life when you could back off and try again later when no weapon or direct threat is apparent," Dunn said.

Dunn said the case is an example where police are relied upon to deal with a person in the midst of a mental-health crisis that is better handled by an expert.

"Instead of 911, this should have been a behavioral-health-crisis call," he said.

He said Maricopa County has a publicly funded hotline for those dealing with a mental-health crisis, but he said families often aren't aware that it exists.

Lack of resources

The subject of police involvement with the mentally ill dominated much of the discussion at a town-hall event last week at the South Mountain Community Library, Baseline Road and 24th Street.

About 100 people were in attendance, including relatives of people with mental illness, advocates, counselors and members of law enforcement. Many expressed frustration with what they view as a lack of resources for patients and their family members. The general consensus among the audience was that Phoenix needs more long-term housing for those struggling with mental illness and more crisis-response training for police.

Gerald Richard, assistant to Police Chief Daniel V. Garcia, said change is going to require legislative action that must come from the grass roots. "It is the individuals who are suffering who would be the greatest asset," he said.

Getting help during mental-health crisis

There are hotlines for people in the midst of a mental-health crisis. Operated by the Crisis Response Network, the phones are staffed around the clock.

To get help in Maricopa and Pinal counties, call 1-800-631-1314. To seek help in Pima County, call 1-800-796-6762.