Kaitlin Durbin

Reporter

MANSFIELD – It took six days of tense riots, looting, vandalism and assaults for the Missouri community to get answers to who shot and killed unarmed teen Michael Brown.

Ferguson police Chief Thomas Jackson announced Friday that Darren Wilson was the officer who fatally shot the 18-year-old black teenager last Sunday after a convenience store robbery.

But after nearly six months, Richland County still is waiting for similar answers in the case of slain resident and father of two, Brian Garber.

On March 16, four deputies entered Brian's parent's home on Mill Run Road, found him in an upstairs bedroom and fired up to 16 rounds. They were there to investigate reports that Brian had a gun and was threatening to kill his wife.

No gun was found, according to the state Bureau of Criminal Investigation, which took over the investigation at the sheriff's office's request. BCI has not released any details about the case, including the names of officers who fired shots that night.

Brian's mother, Connie Garber, says enough is enough; her grieving family deserves answers, too.

"We need to know why this is taking so long," Connie said. "I just want justice for my son."

Length of investigation

A BCI spokesperson previously told the News Journal that Brian's finished autopsy and toxicology report is the last piece in the puzzle needed before they wrap up their investigation.

Typically, the Summit County Coroner's Office, where's Brian's information was sent, requests 12 to 16 weeks to complete a death report. It's been 21 weeks.

"My son has already been cremated; this should be done," Connie said.

Gary Guenther, chief investigator for the Summit County Coroners Office, said records showed Thursday that Brian's autopsy report had not been completed. Geunther sounded surprised, noting that it's been five months since they received the case.

He said reports can sometimes be delayed by testing, building microscope slides and gathering the necessary medical records from doctors.

"It should be done anytime," was the only estimate he could provide as to when Garber's report would be finished.

Richland County Coroner Stewart Ryckman could not be reached for comment.

Sheriff's Maj. Joe Masi would not comment on the length of the investigation. He referred all questions to BCI and the Richland County Prosecutor's Office — after BCI finishes its investigation, its report will go to the prosecutor's office for review.

Friday, Richland County Assistant Prosecutor Bambi Couch-Page said the length of the investigation was not concerning.

"We're still waiting, to the best of my knowledge, on autopsy results and toxicology," Couch-Page said. "That's not unusual; we're waiting for those on a number of cases."

Unnamed shooter

It's not just the results of the autopsy that Brian's family is waiting for, though.

Connie said she wants to know who killed her son — whatever the reason.

It's the same question Brown's family and friends had been raising this week in their crusade for justice in Ferguson.

Initially, Ferguson police Chief Thomas Jackson refused to release the officer's name, reviving the recurring debate on the balance between public records and officer safety. The officer was receiving threats, he said.

Then, Friday, he gave the family an answer, even providing details that Wilson has been on the force six years and has no prior disciplinary record.

Connie still is waiting.

Immediately following Brian's shooting, all four county deputies who had been in the home were placed on eight days of paid administrative leave, but no information has been released about who fired weapons. The deputies have since returned to work.

Jill Del Greco with BCI said it's their policy not to release the name of an uncharged individual (officer or non-officer) whose actions still are under review. If an person is arrested or charged as a result of the investigation, BCI will release the name, she said.

According to reports, Connie might receive more than one name.

Sheriff's deputies each are equipped with a Smith and Wesson M&P .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun, which can hold 15 bullets in a magazine and one bullet in the chamber. BCI investigators found 16 fired bullet casings in Brian's bedroom, meaning either one officer fired until empty, or more than one deputy fired shots.

Transparency

Perhaps the biggest divide between the two cases, however, is how authorities have handled the shootings.

A day after Brown's death, witnesses and authorities came forward with conflicting accounts about what led to the shooting.

Witnesses said Brown was surrendering, with his hands in the air to show he was unarmed, when Wilson opened fire, while police say Brown attacked Wilson in his car and tried to take his gun. Wilson was taken to an area hospital to be treated for a "swollen face," previous reports showed.

Since, more details have emerged about why police confronted Brown — he was identified as the lead suspect in a burglary case — what eyewitnesses saw and events captured on surveillance video.

Which version of the shooting is correct remains under investigation.

But any account of what happened in the upstairs bedroom of the Garber home that night in March remains a mystery. The sheriff's office and BCI have not released any details.

Only the four deputies were present during the shooting. Brian's father, Matt Garber, was standing at the bottom of the stairs when he heard the shots.

Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon issued a statement Friday saying he will continue to fight to reveal the truth in Brown's case. After the six-day struggle, he called the updates "long-overdue."

"I will continue to call for openness and transparency as the parallel investigations into this tragedy proceed to their necessary conclusions. For the sake of the family, the citizens of Ferguson, and the entire region, it is vital that the investigations into the shooting death of Michael Brown move forward in a thorough, open and transparent manner to ensure that trust is restored and justice is done."

Connie wonders where Ohio's governor is on the fight for her son.

Why are Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine and BCI silent? Does it take national media attention to get answers? And if so, why isn't her son's controversial death sparking the same reaction?

"Who is covering up for who?" Connie asked.

Del Greco said it is BCI policy not to release information while an investigation is in progress because it could harm the integrity of the case. Releasing partial information also could harm the chances of finding impartial jurors who could be asked to review the evidence, she said.

"Attorney General DeWine takes pride in being as transparent as possible regarding all aspects of the Attorney General's Office; however we believe that declining to release piecemeal information in regards to our ongoing investigations assists in preserving justice in every case we investigate," Del Greco said. Once a case is closed, the full investigative file associated with the case can be reviewed as a public record.

Del Greco said they are "confident" that once the autopsy report is complete BCI will be ready to turn over the investigation to the prosecutor's office shortly after.

kdurbin@nncogannett.com

419-521-7205

Twitter: @njKaitlinDurbin

More inside

See a timeline of the Garber case, page xx.