D.S. Woodfill, Megan Cassidy and Michael Kiefer

The Republic | azcentral.com

A single shot from an officer's rifle brought an end to a dramatic police chase that played out on the crowded streets of downtown Phoenix on Tuesday morning.

One man was dead and a woman was in custody after a morning pursuit that started at a motel near Interstate 17 and Dunlap Road ended at the downtown CityScape development at Central Avenue and Jefferson Street.

According to police, the pair tried to elude officers by going into an underground parking garage at CityScape and carjacking a woman's SUV. Moments later, as police say the pair drove from the garage onto Jefferson Street, police rammed the SUV into the side of a sandwich shop and shot the driver to death.

Late Tuesday, police booked Jessica Hicks, 23, into Fourth Avenue Jail on suspicion of first-degree murder and armed robbery. State law allows authorities to seek a first-degree murder charge against a person involved in a violent felony crime if someone dies while the crime is being committed. Authorities did not release the name of the man police killed.

"We are fortunate that more people didn't get hurt," said Sgt. Trent Crump, a Phoenix police spokesman. "The suspect was certainly showing an extreme indifference to human life. This could have been far much worse."

Ed Haramina, who owns a hot-dog stand at First Avenue and Jefferson Street, saw the dark gray Ford SUV emerge from the garage under CityScape on the northside of Jefferson Street. Then, he saw police vehicles — two unmarked pickup trucks and a gray armored car — swerve onto Jefferson from First Avenue.

The armored car rammed the Ford, spinning it across the light-rail tracks and onto the sidewalk in front of the Subway sandwich shop in the historic Luhrs Building. Police rammed the Ford again, stopping it.

Haramina and other witnesses heard a single shot.

Mike Martin, a workman on a project in the Luhrs building, watched as police put a blanket over the SUV's windshield.

Defense attorney Richard Gierloff was in his office in the Luhrs building when he heard the car slam into the SUV.

"There were a dozen police officers with their guns drawn — long guns, handguns," Gierloff said. "I stepped away from the window."

Gierloff said he heard the shot, and then looked out again.

The incident began early Tuesday, Crump said, when an auto-theft detective spotted a stolen Dodge truck at Dunlap Road and 22nd Avenue.

After the detective began following the vehicle, one of the occupants pointed a handgun out a window. A police helicopter and unmarked vehicles then tracked the truck as it headed south on an I-17 access road.

Crump said the pair made their way to downtown Phoenix, where they drove into the underground parking garage at CityScape and accosted a 53-year-old woman, who was later identified as an attorney.

The woman tried to run away with the keys to her SUV, but she was caught and thrown to the ground by the man, who wrestled away her keys.

As the pair drove onto Jefferson Street from the parking garage, an armored police vehicle rammed the SUV, spinning it across nearby light-rail tracks and onto a sidewalk.

The SUV then continued west on the sidewalk as pedestrians scrambled out of the way.

Crump said an officer inside an unmarked vehicle attempted to ram the SUV but got stuck on the berm of the light rail.

Another unmarked police vehicle knocked the SUV into the wall outside the restaurant, where it came to rest.

"He rammed that vehicle," Crump said of the gang-squad officer whose pickup truck effectively pinned the SUV against the building.

The SWAT team moved in, and an officer fired a single shot from a rifle into the car, killing the driver.

Police pulled the woman from the SUV.

An officer was hurt when a police vehicle ran over his foot or leg, Crump said. No other injuries were reported.

EDITOR'S NOTE: An earlier version of this story misidentified police spokesman Sgt. Trent Crump. We regret the error.