The mother of the man shot to death last week by a fugitive task force said Wednesday that she wants to see video evidence that her son reached for a gun before he was shot.

Debra Michalak said she "doesn't know what to believe" about the incident involving her son, Willie D. Michalak, because she never saw her son with a gun.

"They said he was reaching for a gun, and I honestly don't know how true that is," she said. "I want facts. I want to see that on video."

Willie Michalak, 30, was being sought on nine felony warrants on March 19 when law enforcement officers looking to arrest him found him in the driver's seat of a car. The car was parked in a narrow driveway tucked between two houses in South Omaha.

Officers had expected that he would be inside a house.

Michalak yelled at officers and threatened them, and he spun his tires on the concrete, according to an account provided Tuesday night by the Omaha Police Department.

He moved his right hand from the steering wheel toward his waistband, police said.

Then, a fusillade.

Two Omaha police officers, two deputy U.S. marshals and an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent fired into the car.

With handguns and tactical rifles, they shot Michalak multiple times, and he died outside 2212 S. 11th St., near 11th and Dorcas Streets.

The weapon they feared — a 9 mm handgun loaded with 15 rounds, one of them in its chamber — was found on the car's floor, in front of the driver's seat and within arm's reach of Michalak, said Lt. Darci Tierney, a police spokeswoman.

Police met with Debra Michalak on Tuesday to provide details of the shooting before they were released to the public.

Michalak said she will consult with a lawyer about her options.

"I know the media is trying to make my son look like a monster, and we all know that isn't true."

Police said about 47 grams of methamphetamine and about 1 gram of marijuana was found in Michalak's pockets after the shooting.

Officials said their report was based on interviews with the officers and independent witnesses.

Omaha Police Chief Todd Schmaderer said he concluded that the shooting was justified.

“The law enforcement officers utilized deadly force to protect themselves and fellow officers from death or serious bodily injury,” he said.

Douglas County Attorney Don Kleine said he had been briefed and would offer a statement Wednesday. A grand jury will review the killing, as is required whenever a person dies in police custody.

The Omaha police gang unit officers who fired at Michalak are Emilio Saldierna, 33, a seven-year veteran of the force, and Stephen Kult, 35, a six-year veteran.

Tierney did not release the names of the ICE agent and deputy marshals who fired. A representative of the marshals' Omaha office declined to release the names of the deputy marshals.

Before they arrived on the South Omaha street, authorities believed that Michalak would be armed. As the officers began to take positions around the house, they found Michalak in the car.

A vehicle was parked in front of Michalak's car, and the U.S. marshals' vehicle was parked behind.

Upon seeing Michalak, officers gave loud commands for him to “show his hands,” police said.

Civilian witnesses also said they heard the officers giving multiple loud commands, police said.

“During a very intense and brief response to the verbal commands, Mr. Michalak cursed and threatened to shoot officers,” Tierney said.

He also told the officers that they would have to shoot him, she said.

Michalak's car was in gear and its tires spinning as the front of his vehicle was pushed up against the vehicle parked in front of him.

He moved his right hand toward his waistband, and a deputy marshal thought he was reaching for a weapon, Tierney said.

Another officer thought that Michalak was going to put the car into reverse and run over officers standing between his vehicle and the U.S. marshals' vehicle.

The officers opened fire.