Dan Scanlan and David Bauerlein

Police have identified the 21-year-old suspected carjacker killed Friday night while running from police as Homer Ken Warren of Jacksonville.

Officer Matthew Bolan, a 13-year veteran, shot several times after Warren pointed a handgun at him during a chase through the backyard and front yard of a house off Division Street near 25th Street, police Director Tom Hackney said.

A second suspect being chased by Bolan surrendered. Police said Terrance J. Clark, 23, was being held in jail.

Police were still searching for a third man who was riding in a Chrysler Sebring convertible that Bolan spotted Friday night and recognized as a car that had been carjacked the previous day.

All three men jumped out of the convertible when Bolan pursued them. Warren and Clark ran off together and Bolan chased them on foot.

Hackney said after Warren pointed the handgun at Bolan, the officer "fearing for his life," fired at Warren.

"That shows great firearms discipline on Officer Bolan's part," Hackney said. "It's not just shooting anybody that moves. He shot the one who was a threat."

Warren previously served a 60-day jail sentence after being found guilty last October of trespassing in an occupied structure, resisting an officer without violence, and a number of traffic violation, according to court records.

Bolan was investigating an abandoned car he had spotted on Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway at Moncrief Road after realizing it was the one stolen in a Friday afternoon home invasion of a 93-year-old Southside woman, police Director Tom Hackney said.

While investigating, Bolan realized the Chrysler convertible that drove by had been taken in a Thursday night carjacking on Calvin Avenue, Hackney said.

Bolan, got in his police cruiser and chased the stolen vehicle until he got it stopped about 6:20 p.m. on West 25th and Division streets. That's when three men got out and fled. Bolan was able to chase two of them to a backyard on Division Street.

The injured gunman was taken to UF Health Jacksonville where he died.

This was Bolan's first officer-involved shooting. He was not injured. It's the second shooting by Jacksonville police this year.