Brian Wilson, and Tony Gonzalez

NAS

Nashville police fatally shot a man after a pursuit.

Aaron Dino Smith%2C Jr.%2C was wanted on three warrants.

Five officers fired and are on administrative assignment.

The man%27s mother got a call from her son earlier in the day.

The mother of the man fatally shot by Nashville police Friday night said she last heard from her son by phone a few hours before his death.

Geraldean Smith said the call from son Aaron Dino Smith, Jr., left her uneasy. She next heard about him, by phone again, from a Nashville police captain. Five officers shot her son after they said he carjacked a woman and led an hour-long pursuit through the city.

"I didn't even go to sleep until about 5 o'clock this morning," said Geraldean Smith, 75,. of Franklin. "I just don't have words to describe."

Although she didn't hear often from her son, he called Friday.

"It just kind of bothered me because he just talked back about 30 years and about family and everything," she said. "I knew he had problems. He had for quite some time. … He just didn't tell us a whole lot."

New details emerged Saturday about the fatal shooting and Aaron Smith's past.

After a pursuit, five officers fired on Smith, 51, outside of an Elliston Place pizzeria after they said he threatened a detective, stole a car at gunpoint and led authorities on a chase through several neighborhoods during rush hour Friday.

Smith was on parole and wanted on three warrants at the time, according to police and court records.

Five officers fired on him outside Roma Pizza after he pointed one of two guns in his hands toward the officers, police said.

"Officers had also determined that they could not let the gunman enter into a business containing innocent citizens and employees," police said in an early Saturday morning news release.

The officers were placed on administrative assignment while the incident is investigated.

Pistol confrontation launches pursuit

Police first encountered Smith at 5 p.m. Friday at America's Motor Sports, a motorcycle shop on 8th Avenue South

Smyrna police Det. Rick Hall was inside the Nashville dealership investigating a March 13 vehicle burglary and credit card theft and was looking for surveillance footage. He had identified Smith as a suspect, police said.

With Hall inside the store, Smith rolled up on a motorcycle.

The detective identified himself and asked to talk. When he grabbed Smith by the jacket, Smith pulled a pistol and pointed it at Hall's head before running off down the street, police said.

Still armed and running from the detective, Smith used his gun to threaten a woman in a car on nearby South Street, forced her out, and tried to run over the detective, authorities said.

Once inside the silver Buick Enclave, he drove "very erratically throughout Nashville," said police spokesman Don Aaron.

But Smith didn't just steal a car — he also got the woman's cellphone, which she left behind. That allowed the vehicle to be tracked, police said.

Police pursued Smith briefly, and a police helicopter followed him through southern, eastern and northern parts of the city before he arrived at Elliston Place at 6:17 p.m., an area bustling with restaurants, and soon with numerous officers.

Smith left the car in a parking garage near the West End Chili's and tried to run before officers converged on him outside a strip mall near Elliston Place and 28th Avenue.

Police said Smith had a gun pointed to his head and another pointed to his side, but then pointed one gun toward officers.

The five officers who fired on Smith were: Officer Josh Reece, Det. Michael Gooch, Officer Shawn Rosson, Officer Clyde Stambaugh, and Officer Dustin Tidwell.

Although the exterior glass of one business was cracked, Aaron said no one in the strip mall was hurt when officers fired.

Afterward, a crowd of people swarmed the area as additional police arrived. Officers later combed through the crowd looking for witnesses.

Officers who converged on Elliston Place were required to be interviewed at the scene by investigators, and dozens remained at the Midtown strip mall for hours. Police cleared the scene just before sunrise.

Man fled police before

Smith was on parole and had multiple convictions in Davidson and Williamson counties, including for armed robbery, thefts from vehicles and fraud, according to police and court records.

At the time of Friday's chase, he was wanted on three warrants in two counties.

Nashville police were searching for Smith for a Feb. 20 theft of a purse from a car parked at Cole and Garrett Funeral Home in Goodlettsville.

Authorities also had a warrant for evading arrest. Police said Smith was stopped at 4:50 a.m. on Jan. 2 in a white Chevy Impala on Dickerson Pike.

Smith yelled, "I'm not going to jail, and you're not going to arrest me," slammed on the gas, spun out on the wet asphalt, and sped off, police said. Citing wet conditions, traffic, and substantial evidence in hand as to Smith's identity, police did not chase him that morning.

In Williamson County, Smith was wanted in a March 10 vehicle burglary.

Smith's prior convictions include six robberies in Davidson County, eight auto burglaries, felony evading of police, ten counts of felony forgery in Williamson County, identity theft and tampering with evidence.

Reach Tony Gonzalez at 615-259-8089 or tgonzalez@tennessean.com or on Twitter @tgonzalez.