Staff Writer

Telegram & Gazette

A federal judge's ruling last week bolstering laws in Kansas and Arizona that require voters to show proof of citizenship before voting in state and local elections is a win for both federalism and common sense.

The battle over how Americans vote — and what proof should be furnished in order to allow someone to cast a ballot — has often and unnecessarily devolved into a partisan wrangle. Democrats accuse Republicans of trying to suppress the votes of poor and minority voters, while Republicans raise fears that Democrats, in their zeal to get out the vote, will throw the doors open to fraudulent voting by non-citizens.

The fact that there is little or no evidence for either scenario doesn't matter. The fears persist.

But shouldn't Democrats and Republicans — indeed, all political parties — support efforts to register and turn every citizen who holds the right to vote, while stopping anyone who lacks that right from casting a ballot?

The laws in Kansas and Arizona do that by adding an ID requirement to federal rules, which require only that one sign a form attesting to one's citizenship.

The trouble with the federal rules is clear. Any resident of any state that lacks an additional safeguard can simply sign the federal form and cast a ballot, which can and must be counted.

As noted above, we don't believe election fraud is a major problem. But some, in Arizona, Kansas, and elsewhere, do.

If this ruling offers them reassurance, so much the better. But the reason to support the ruling is that it confirms greater state control over state and local elections — a result that is fully consistent with the principle of federalism upon which our republic is based.

It's important to address the other side of the equation as well — ensuring that no one who is legally entitled to vote is barred from doing so for lack of ID.

In nearly every case, a driver's license will suffice. But all states offer photo IDs to those who do not drive. These typically require a small fee, along with a birth certificate and/or Social Security card, plus one or two other forms of ID, like a W-2 form, bank card, or bill with an address.

In a society where many transactions require some form of ID, claims that an ID requirement to vote constitutes an insurmountable burden simply do not add up.

All Americans, regardless of political leanings, should endorse ID rules for elections. Properly framed and enforced, such rules can allay concerns about fraud and voter suppression alike, allowing political junkies to fight their ideological battles over issues of greater substance.