Jonathan Bandler

jbandler@lohud.com

Yonkers perjury cop was the only one to see Tena go out the window

Medical examiner shifted manner of death from suicide to unknown circumstances after learning of perjury

"Tactical" decision prior to drug raid left no cops watching window where Tena fell to his death

Eight Yonkers cops crowded onto the narrow landing outside Apt. 3 on the top floor of 141 School St. It was just before 8 pm on March 21, 2014. They were about to execute a search warrant targeting a suspected drug dealer.

It was a seemingly routine raid that turned anything but ordinary. Moments after police busted down the door, the tenant lay dying four stories below. Within weeks, the lies two of the officers had told to get the warrant were uncovered by Internal Affairs. And a year later, those cops’ law enforcement careers ended after they pleaded guilty to perjury.

What remains a mystery is how Dario Tena died - did he dive out the window, as one of the perjured officers claimed, or did something else happen in the bedroom?

Police reports recently obtained by The Journal News reveal that the only officer who saw Tena’s fatal exit out the bedroom window was Neil Vera, the admitted perjurer whose rogue investigation led to the ill-fated raid. Medical examiners seemed to rely on that account when initially ruling the death a suicide, according to the autopsy report reviewed by a Journal News reporter on Thursday.

The police records obtained by The Journal News also make clear that, in preparing for the raid, police never positioned any officers in the back of the apartment building, where they could see the window Tena exited.

Bonita Zelman and John Araujo, lawyers representing Tena's sister, called Vera's account "completely untrustworthy".

"Vera has absolutely no credibility whatsoever. Any account he gives should be discredited," said Zelman, who is preparing a wrongful-death lawsuit.

Vera claimed to see Tena dive out a window where there was no fire escape moments after officers entered.

“As I reached the rear bedroom doorway I observed the same Hispanic male that was running in the hallway extend his arms straight out and leap out the bedroom window,” Vera wrote in his report six days after the incident. “I yelled. ‘He jumped out the back window’.”

Tena suffered skull and rib fractures and a severe cut to the back of his head when he landed in the rear yard 32 feet below. He was pronounced dead more than an hour later at St. Joseph’s Medical Center in Yonkers.

While the cause of death was determined within a matter of days, the Westchester Medical Examiner’s Office took nearly seven months to complete its autopsy report and came to no final conclusion as to the manner of death.

Zelman claims that she spoke with the pathologist who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Benjamin Bristol, soon after she was retained by the family late last summer. She said he first indicated that suicide was a consideration but that he had some reservations. When they next spoke, she said, he told her that the decision had been made by his superiors that the death would be ruled a suicide.

Bristol would not comment when asked about the case or to confirm his conversations with Zelman.

When prosecutors learned suicide was a possible ruling they let the Medical Examiner's Office know that Vera and Koch were under investigation for perjury, according to two sources with knowledge of the case.

The autopsy report reveals the word "suicide" crossed out, replaced by "unknown circumstances," seemingly written by Bristol. Next to that were the initials KA, for Chief Medical Examiner Kunjlata Ashar, and the date 10-14-14 - a week after the officers were indicted.

Zelman said Bristol seemed hesitant about suicide, telling her nobody jumps backward out a window. He may have been relying on the injury to the back of Tena's head, and the fact he was found lying on his back. Zelman said the apparent contradiction to Vera's account should have raised eyebrows among pathologists and prosecutors and prompted a closer look at how exactly Tena went out the window.

She was hopeful when Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed an executive order this month appointing the state attorney general as a special prosecutor in police-involved deaths. But the order does not cover any deaths that preceded it.

Contacted by The Journal News on Thursday, Ashar said that it was office policy not to comment on any case that has been referred to prosecutors. Lucian Chalfen, a spokesman for the Westchester District Attorney's Office, declined to comment.

The botched raid led to perjury and official misconduct charges against Vera and Detective Christian Koch – and the end of their law enforcement careers – because they lied in getting the search warrant.

"We don't accept that they found any illegal drugs in the apartment. Nothing that they say is credible to us." - Tena family lawyer Bonita Zelman

Tena’s sister and her lawyer, though, want more. They have complained about an inadequate investigation into his death.

But Yonkers Police Commissioner Charles Gardner said that, while the case was "obviously a tragedy," a thorough probe conducted by his department and the District Attorney's Office had determined that "no evidence was uncovered that would suggest any wrongdoing in relation to Mr. Tena's death."

More specifically, he added, there was no indication that Tena went out the window "other than by his own accord."

He and Detective Lt. Patrick McCormack, the department spokesman, would not speculate on what was going through Tena's mind at the time. But they said one theory was that he feared those who entered the apartment were drug dealers hoping to rip him off.

Vera did not respond to a message left at his home. His lawyer, Bruce Bendish, said his client's account of what happened had been "true and accurate" and that he gave it consistently each time he was asked.

But Vera had lied about conducting controlled drug buys at the apartment. And both he and Koch lied about working with a confidential informant who was in prison out of state at the time they claimed to be working with him on their investigation, The Journal News reported last summer before the officers were indicted.

Vera also tried to cover up his misconduct by getting another informant to lie to investigators that he had made controlled buys for Vera.

Both cops pleaded guilty in April. Vera, who was fired late last year, is serving six months of weekends in jail. Koch is expected to be sentenced in September to eight weekends in jail. He resigned the day he pleaded guilty.

In the wake of the perjury case, prosecutors dismissed more than 20 pending cases that involved either officer. A felony drug conviction in a case in which Koch and his partner were the arresting officers and testified falsely was overturned and the defendant was released after serving three years of a 15-year prison term.

Tena, known as 'Chi Chi', played Class A minor league baseball in the early 1990s and stayed active in softball leagues in the New York area up until his death. He had a 20-year-old son in his native Dominican Republic and a 5-year-old in Yonkers.

The young boy's mother, Erika Espana Gomez, declined comment. But on Facebook, following his death, she posted countless pictures of Tena - his #8 baseball cleats, with his son and her other son and daughter and baseball cards from his time with the Augusta Green Jackets. Even though her youngest was her only child with Tena, she considered him like a father to the other two.

She disputed the police account and expressed outrage that the raid ended in Tena's death.

"I want everyone to know that these 2 rats are the cause of my children's father's death. I have faith in God's divine justice," she wrote on Oct. 8 after posting The Journal News article about Koch and Vera's indictment.

Although the records name him, authorities have said the police did not have Tena’s name before they raided the apartment; that the target of the raid had been a Richie Polanco. Among the items police claimed to recover was mail addressed to both Tena and Polanco.

But Polanco hadn't lived there in years. Koch and Vera had claimed on the search warrant affidavit that they showed a picture of the suspected drug dealer to the informant, who identified him as Polanco, even though they'd never spoken to the informant.

Police have insisted that whatever procedural mistakes were made, Tena was dealing drugs from the apartment. During approximately three and a half hours of surveillance before the raid, Koch reported, three people suspected of buying drugs there were arrested when they left the building.

And after Tena went out the window, police searched the apartment and reported finding 87 grams of cocaine and a digital scale with cocaine residue in a bedroom; a plastic bag with cocaine in the kitchen; packaging material in the kitchen and a bedroom; and $764 in cash.

Toxicology tests conducted as part of the autopsy showed no drugs or alcohol in Tena's system. His friends and relatives said they did not know him to be involved in drugs.

"We don't accept that they found any illegal drugs in the apartment," Zelman said. "Nothing that they say is credible to us."

The reports raise questions about police preparedness, as several of the cops seemed surprised to learn there was no fire escape in the window Tena exited. No officers were stationed in the back courtyard. Police are generally trained, and in some departments required, to keep all windows and doors under observation from the time a raid begins.

Commissioner Gardner said that was a tactical decision - that an officer in the back could have been seen from the window and might have tipped the tenant off to the raid. Although not reflected in the reports released by the department, he said that the lieutenant in charge of the narcotics division was in front of the building.

Koch’s incident report and the supplemental reports of Vera and Officers Thomas Braig, Christopher McManus and Dennis Robertson used the identical language in describing the cops’ entry:

“Detective Sgt. (Robert) Bock utilized the rabbit tool and Detective Koch utilized the battering ram. The aforementioned officers with our police shields displayed clearly around our necks shouting ‘Police Search Warrant’ several times entered 141 School St. Apt. #3.”

Once inside though, it was only Vera who saw Tena head toward the bedroom.

Told of the police reports on Thursday, a close friend of Tena's, Rafael Guerrero, said it showed the case was not sufficiently investigated.

"Nobody jumps out a window like that. They make it like he thought there was a swimming pool down there," said Guerrero said. "To me it doesn't make sense. How do they rely on (Vera)? He's someone who is unreliable."

Twitter: @jonbandler