Oklahoma City police have released the name of a man killed in an officer-involved shooting Sunday morning.Gail Dean Fairless, 73, was shot and killed by officers after he pointed a gun at them, according to authorities.Paramedics were called to a home in the 4300 block of Northwest 21st Terrace about 6:30 a.m. Sunday in regard to a suicidal person. Paramedics said Fairless' wife told them he was suicidal and armed with a handgun, and they requested police assistance.Officers Sgt. David Hollis II, Sgt. Jeff Coffey, Sgt. Jonathan Davis and Sgt. Anthony Pundsack entered the home and went into the master bedroom where Fairless was located, according to police. Officers told Fairless to move away from the gun, but he disregarded the officer’s commands, grabbed the gun and pointed it at the officers, officials said.All four officers then fired at Fairless, killing him, according to investigators. The officers were placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation.Crime footer

Oklahoma City police have released the name of a man killed in an officer-involved shooting Sunday morning.

Gail Dean Fairless, 73, was shot and killed by officers after he pointed a gun at them, according to authorities.

Advertisement Related Content WANTED: Oklahoma Department of Corrections Escapees

Paramedics were called to a home in the 4300 block of Northwest 21st Terrace about 6:30 a.m. Sunday in regard to a suicidal person. Paramedics said Fairless' wife told them he was suicidal and armed with a handgun, and they requested police assistance.

Officers Sgt. David Hollis II, Sgt. Jeff Coffey, Sgt. Jonathan Davis and Sgt. Anthony Pundsack entered the home and went into the master bedroom where Fairless was located, according to police. Officers told Fairless to move away from the gun, but he disregarded the officer’s commands, grabbed the gun and pointed it at the officers, officials said.

All four officers then fired at Fairless, killing him, according to investigators. The officers were placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation.