Joe Goldeen

STOCKTON - Did a California Highway Patrol vehicle "bump" Angel Sauceda's motorcycle during a pursuit the night of March 24 in east Stockton, causing him to lose control and collide with a wrought-iron fence?

Did a CHP officer then mistreat Sauceda's broken body, lifting him off the top of the fence where his legs were impaled, then "slam" his body to the ground and stand on his neck?

The CHP says none of that occurred. There was no use of force and no contact between the CHP patrol unit and the motorcycle.

Sauceda's family, on the other hand, was told this and more the night Sauceda died by a man claiming to be an eyewitness. That man has since told the family he won't come forward to make his story public out of fear of police retaliation, according to Cartina Valenzuela-Ramirez, Sauceda's mother-in-law and the designated family spokeswoman.

The family has other concerns. Neither Sauceda's wife, Jacalin, nor his mother, Mary - the two adults closest to him - were ever contacted by the San Joaquin County Coroner's Office to positively identify their loved one, nor were they allowed to see him at San Joaquin General Hospital the night he died, despite assurances from hospital staff that they would be allowed in his room.

Instead, after a two-hour wait, they were told by a sheriff's deputy the Coroner's Office had picked up Sauceda's body soon after he was pronounced dead at 12:16 a.m. March 25, according to Valenzuela-Ramirez.

"Nobody got to ID Angel's body - not my daughter, not his mother. There was no one to say, 'Yes, that is Angel Sauceda,' " Valenzuela-Ramirez said. "That's weird. My take on it is we should have been able to ID him at the hospital. The deputy said they wanted to do an extensive autopsy to find out the actual cause of death."

Sauceda's remains were released Monday by the coroner to Cano Funeral Home, 2164 E. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. His funeral is scheduled there today at 6 p.m., with public viewing from 4 to 8 p.m.

Sauceda, 37, had two children from other relationships and was married for the past 11 years to Valenzuela-Ramirez's daughter. He lost his job at Trader Joe's distribution center about six months ago. His mother-in-law said he had been in trouble with the law before.

On Monday, the CHP provided the first public information on events surrounding Sauceda's death but only after a Record inquiry. No news release was issued because the CHP's public information officer, James Smith, was never informed of the fatality.

Smith said that a CHP unit on routine patrol in east Stockton observed a Suzuki motorcycle run through a stop sign at Wizard Avenue and Flora Street at 11:27 p.m. March 24 and attempted to pull over the rider. Instead, the rider failed to yield and led the officer in a pursuit east on Flora and north on Filbert Street.

At 11:28 p.m., just south of East Francis Street, the rider lost control of his motorcycle, struck a curb and collided with the wrought-iron fence. Still alive, according to Smith, he was transported to San Joaquin General, where he succumbed to his injuries 48 minutes later.

"It was a short pursuit that ended in a tragedy, and we are trying to investigate it as thoroughly and accurately as possible because there was a loss of life," Smith said Tuesday.

"There was no use of force at all. No pit maneuver at all. If somebody is a witness and they would like to come forward and give us their point of view, that they may have seen something in the collision that will help us investigate it more thoroughly, they can call us at (209) 943-8666," Smith said.

In his summary of the incident, Smith said he could not comment on the condition of Sauceda's body after the crash "because it plays a factor in the collision that cannot be released until the conclusion of the investigation."

That investigation could take up to 12 weeks due to the agency's extensive review process and will include a toxicology report on whether Sauceda was under the influence of drugs or alcohol. And if the CHP patrol vehicle had a dash cam, video of the incident would be released with the final report, but not until then.

Smith reiterated that the CHP is a "transparent agency. We have nothing to hide." He said to date there had been no complaints coming from the family.

Valenzuela-Ramirez responded to that assertion Tuesday, saying, "No complaints, yes. It's because nobody gets back to us. They can't hear our complaints."

Valenzuela-Ramirez wants to know where her son-in-law's motorcycle and some other personal items are, such as his wallet, ID, shoes, and the backpack he had with him. Other items such as jewelry and $67 in cash have been returned.

At the scene of the accident, an officer - Valenzuela-Ramirez did not know from what agency - asked bystanders if they had seen anything.

"The officer was intimidating, yelling at people, so it's like now no one wants to really come forward," she said.

After Sauceda is laid to rest, the family intends to work harder to get some answers.

"If it was Angel's fault that he wrecked, we're OK with that. We want closure," Valenzuela-Ramirez said. "But if that is not the case, we want accountability."

Contact reporter Joe Goldeen at (209) 546-8278 or jgoldeen@recordnet.com. Follow him at recordnet.com/goldeenblog and on Twitter @JoeGoldeen.