Advertisement DUI driver who killed mother, daughter is sentenced Share Copy Link Copy

A Spartanburg man pleaded guilty and was sentenced Wednesday in a DUI crash that killed a 43-year-old woman and her mother.Austin Shackleford, 20, pleaded guilty to eight counts in connection to the crash last March that killed Tanya Tiede. Her mother, 65-year-old Sandra Kay Effler, died later at Spartanburg Regional Medical Center.Shackleford was driving north on Highway 110 when he crossed the center line and struck the Tiede family’s car head-on.Investigators said Teide’s 44-year-old husband, Chris, and 11-year-old daughter, Hannah, were trapped in the car and seriously injured.The solicitor said Shackleford admitted to detectives he'd had a half pint of rum, marijuana and other drugs the night of the accident. The coroner said a deputy’s dash cam video showed Shackleford pass at a high rate of speed less than a minute before the crash.Candance Plemmons, the victims’ sister and daughter, said, "On March 25, my life was forever changed ... Two of the most important people in my life, my mom and my sister were killed because of a head on collision caused by Austin Shackleford."Shackleford admitted his guilt in court."I’m just ready to face my consequences and receive my punishment," he said.He was quiet through most of his sentencing, only showing emotion when he apologized to the victims’ family.His brother, Christopher Shackleford, who was just released from prison after serving a felony DUI sentence given to him by the same judge, was also in court Wednesday to support his brother."It’s horrible I had to throw away so much of my life for something I learned in the first year," he said. "And I hope and ask of you that you give Austin the chance to come to the same realization and still have enough time to get out, improve and have a life.Shackleford was sentenced to 25 years in prison. He will be required to serve at least 85 percent of his sentence. He could have faced a maximum sentence of up to 125 years.Spartanburg County Solicitor Barry Barnette said, "I get tired of seeing this. It destroys everybody -- him and the victims’ family. It's something completely preventable. Just ask somebody else to drive. Just do not drive."