A Tulsa man who was fatally shot by police serving a search warrant Tuesday apparently was unarmed, police said Wednesday.

The Tulsa Police Department identified the man who was shot as DeAndre Lloyd Starks, 27, and the officer as Sgt. Mark Wollmershauser Jr., 32.

Wollmershauser, who has been on the police force for nine years, was placed on routine paid administrative leave after the shooting.

Starks' family, friends and supporters gathered Wednesday evening outside the house where he was shot.

His mother, Vanessa Armstrong, spoke to the crowd, saying she would have taken her son's place if she could have.

"Why was he the one that had to die?" she asked. "My son deserved justice. ... I'm going to preserve that justice for my son."

Starks had five children, according to his aunt, Angelia Cherry.

He was one of five people in a residence at 239 E. Young St. when police gang and narcotics officers entered to serve a drug-related search warrant at 5:22 p.m. Tuesday, according to a news release from Sgt. Dave Walker.

No gun was found in the residence, but police did find a "substantial amount of illegal dangerous drugs inside the house and on Starks," according to the release.

However, Officer Leland Ashley said Wednesday that no one from the residence has been arrested.

Walker said police ordered everyone inside to get on the floor. One man tried to jump out a window and was apprehended by officers there. Starks, who was in a bedroom, "failed to comply with officers," according to Walker.

The news release states that Starks was "making movements with his body and hands that officers deemed a threat to them."

Wollmershauser fired one shot at 5:23 p.m., Ashley said. Starks was taken to St. John Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead at 6:11 p.m., police said.

People identifying themselves as Starks' friends and family members spoke briefly at the scene Tuesday before they were officially notified that he was the person who had been shot. They said only that Starks was a "good kid" who they believed happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.

Tulsa World archives show that Wollmershauser also was involved in a fatal officer-involved shooting three years ago, having killed Marvin Dion Alexander on March 16, 2011.

Alexander, 32, had fought with a U.S. marshal who was trying, along with Tulsa police officers, to conduct a "pedestrian check," and then sprinted through the Fairmont Terrace apartment complex, police said.

Wollmershauser shot Alexander as the man was reaching for something, and police said a gun was found at the scene.

Court records show that Starks pleaded guilty in 2007 to possession of marijuana with an intent to distribute, for which he received a five-year deferred sentence. He was charged twice in 2009 with drug offenses, both of which were dismissed at the request of prosecutors, court records show.

His death was the first Tulsa Police Department officer-involved fatality of 2014 and the first since an officer fatally shot a man at a south Tulsa apartment complex more than a year ago.

In that shooting, Officer Daniel Madewell killed Juan Antonio Gonzalez, 31, on Feb. 16, 2013, at the Coppermill Apartments, 7110 S. Granite Ave.

Gonzalez was shot while on a second-floor balcony by officers who said they believed he was pointing a rifle. It was later determined that the rifle was a BB gun.

Madewell was cleared and returned to work, Ashley said.

Police Department data show 38 uses of deadly force since 2008. Each case the Tulsa County District Attorney's Office has ruled on has been deemed justified, although a 2009 case was ruled to be outside of Police Department policy.

Tulsa police used deadly force eight times in 2013, but only one of those incidents resulted in a death. One man, Christopher Teter of Tulsa, killed himself in his vehicle after leading police on a chase Dec. 4.

Police said Teter, 20, fired at officers while leading them in the pursuit, then shot himself as they closed in on him after he crashed his car near the Tulsa Promenade mall. Police had returned fire at him, but it was determined that his own bullet had killed him.

Tulsa police shot eight people in 2012, four of them fatally. A fifth person fatally shot himself as officers fired, striking him in the leg, Tulsa World archives show.

Dylan Goforth 918-581-8451

Officer-involved shootings

Year Shootings Deaths 2008 7 2 2009 4 2 2010 6 2 2011 4 3 2012 8 6 2013 8 1 2014* 1 1

*through March 26