Prosecutor concludes that use of deadly force by Sheriff’s Deputies was justified

7/15/2014

Cleveland – After a thorough review of the evidence, Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Timothy J. McGinty has concluded that Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Deputies acted lawfully when they shot and killed an armed suspect while attempting to arrest him on March 25, 2014.

In a letter sent today to Cuyahoga County Sheriff Frank Bova, Prosecutor McGinty commended the Deputies involved for their professionalism and heroism. “These Sheriff’s Deputies performed their duty to the public and deserve this commendation for protecting public safety,” Prosecutor McGinty wrote.

A warrant unit from the Sheriff’s Department went to the Middleburg Heights home of Israel Rondon that afternoon to arrest him for felony Assault on a Police Officer and Carrying Concealed Weapon.

When Deputy Jeffrey Sikora approached the rear door of the home, Mr. Rondon came out carrying a rifle. Deputy Sikora radioed his fellow Deputies that the suspect was outside and armed and ordered Mr. Rondon to put down his weapon. The suspect did not.

In order to distract the suspect and allow Deputy Sikora to get into a safer position, Deputy Matthew Massey broke cover and also ordered Mr. Rondon to drop his weapon.

Instead, Mr. Rondon shouldered his rifle and aimed it at the Deputies. Investigation would later show that at this point, his weapon misfired. Deputies Massey and Sikora fired and Mr. Rondon was fatally wounded.

“Shooting the suspect at that point was their duty and responsibility,” Prosecutor McGinty wrote in his letter to Sheriff Bova. “They were faced with an armed, irrational, intoxicated, violent suspect who was attempting to fire a rifle at them and prevent his own arrest.”

In keeping with the policies of the Prosecutor’s Office, all evidence gathered by the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation was presented to the Grand Jury, which concurred with this conclusion.



A copy of a letter from Prosecutor McGinty to Cuyahoga County Sheriff Frank Bova can be found here [PDF].

Contact: Joseph Frolik, Director of Communications and Public Policy. Phone: (216) 443-7488 or Cell: (216) 640-6186. Email: jfrolik@prosecutor.cuyahogacounty.us