GARY | A Gary man died Wednesday after being pulled from a burning vehicle that was stolen in a February carjacking and possibly used in local burglaries, police said.

Nicholas Moore, 26, suffered massive trauma after losing control of a 2006 Mercedes Benz, which struck a tree behind a Gary residence.

The Mercedes, which was stolen at gunpoint in a February carjacking in Oklahoma, was seen traveling at a high rate of speed about 10:15 a.m. Wednesday on 56th Avenue near Connecticut Street in Merrillville, Merrillville Police Chief Joseph Petruch said.

Merrillville officers were working a saturation patrol in the area because of recent burglaries reported in the northeast corner of the town, Petruch said.

The driver disregarded a stop sign and headed to Broadway after noticing police in the area, Petruch said.

According to a Merrillville police news release, Moore wove through traffic and sped up in an attempt to escape officers.

Petruch said that at one point during the chase, a passenger in the vehicle jumped out and fled from officers.

Police pursued the vehicle through Gary neighborhoods, but Merrillville officers lost sight of the Mercedes in the 4200 to 3900 blocks of Georgia Street, they said.

Petruch said he terminated the pursuit at 10:19 a.m. Officers were searching for the passenger who jumped out of the vehicle when a Merrillville officer was flagged down by a person reporting a vehicle struck a tree near 37th Avenue and Georgia Street in Gary.

"We were not in pursuit when the suspect hit the tree," Petruch said.

The Mercedes was in flames when the Merrillville officer arrived. Moore, who was the only occupant in the vehicle, was unconscious.

The Merrillville officer pulled Moore from the vehicle, and Gary police and firefighters were dispatched to the area, Petruch said.

Moore was transported to Methodist Hospitals Northlake Campus, where he died, Petruch said.

Following the crash, police determined the Mercedes had been taken during a carjacking in Oklahoma and it matched the description of a vehicle used in burglaries in Hobart and Merrillville.

Petruch said it's still unclear if Moore is responsible for the carjacking in Oklahoma or how he got the car. He said officers believe Moore and the passenger who jumped out are tied to recent burglaries in Hobart and Merrillville.

Indiana State Police are investigating the crash. Merrillville is handling the criminal investigation, Petruch said.