Two Sayre police officers and a Beckham County sheriff's deputy were involved in a shooting Thursday morning.The OSBI is investigating the shooting after a man died at the scene. According to the OSBI, two Sayre police officers tried to serve felony warrants for failure to pay child support and attempting to elude police while under the influence on Larry Dale Plaster, 43, of Sayre, at his home in the Southgate Apartments. The bureau said Plaster ran away from the officers.Police said they chased the man and called for backup. A Beckham County deputy responded and attempted to arrest Plaster. According to the OSBI, Plaster hit the deputy several times with an axe. The OSBI said the deputy fired several shots at Plaster. At least one bullet struck and killed Plaster.The OSBI said the officers all tried to use stun guns to apprehend Plaster during the chase, but they were ineffective. OSBI is investigating the shooting. They will send information to the district attorney once they've concluded the investigation.Authorities said the deputy was treated and released from a hospital. His name has not been released.

Two Sayre police officers and a Beckham County sheriff's deputy were involved in a shooting Thursday morning.

The OSBI is investigating the shooting after a man died at the scene. According to the OSBI, two Sayre police officers tried to serve felony warrants for failure to pay child support and attempting to elude police while under the influence on Larry Dale Plaster, 43, of Sayre, at his home in the Southgate Apartments. The bureau said Plaster ran away from the officers.

Advertisement

Police said they chased the man and called for backup. A Beckham County deputy responded and attempted to arrest Plaster. According to the OSBI, Plaster hit the deputy several times with an axe. The OSBI said the deputy fired several shots at Plaster. At least one bullet struck and killed Plaster.

The OSBI said the officers all tried to use stun guns to apprehend Plaster during the chase, but they were ineffective. OSBI is investigating the shooting. They will send information to the district attorney once they've concluded the investigation.

Authorities said the deputy was treated and released from a hospital. His name has not been released.