A Stevenson High School student and his parents were killed when their car was struck by a vehicle being chased by police in Arizona, officials announced Monday.

The Lincolnshire school is mourning the death of Yuki Hirayama, a 16-year-old sophomore, and his parents, Tomohiro Hirayama, 50, and Sachiyo Hirayama, 42. His 9-year-old sister Rinka, who attends Half Day School in Lincolnshire, survived the crash in critical condition and was hospitalized in Arizona, according to school officials. Also killed were two people in the truck, authorities said.

Advertisement

The family was on spring break from school Friday, driving in a 2014 black Chrysler van on U.S. Route 160 heading west toward Tuba City, in the general direction of the Grand Canyon, police said.

A maroon Ford pickup truck was driving in the opposite direction, being chased by the Navajo Police Department after reports it was driving erratically in Tuba City, some 25 miles away, Arizona Department of Public Safety spokesman Raul Garcia said. Police were up to a mile and a half behind the truck, due to traffic considerations on a two-lane road with passing traffic that made it difficult to keep up, he added.

Advertisement

The truck crossed the center line, hit the Hirayamas' car head-on and burst into flames, killing its two occupants, who were not immediately identified, Garcia said.

The accident marked a tragic end to a short tenure for Yuki at Stevenson. He had transferred to the school at the beginning of the current school year when father got a job in the area and his family moved to Vernon Hills from Holland, school officials said. He took part in the fencing program and was a member of Stevenson Patriots in New Situations, a club for transfer students.

He didn't speak English fluently so took classes in the school's English Language Learning Program, school spokesman Jim Conrey said.

Classmates in that program said they wanted to have a Japanese memorial in Yuki's honor, Conrey said. School officials were hoping to contact friends or co-workers of the family, as well as the Japanese consulate and local religious organizations, to see what a proper memorial might entail.

A counseling center opened at the school Monday with social workers, counselors and psychologists available for any students who needed support, and was to continue Tuesday as well.



rmccoppin@tribune.com