As teenage twins led police on a chase in Antelope, they rammed a white car, killing two people inside who weren't involved in the pursuit -- including a teenage girl, identified Thursday as Anahi Tovar.The Sacramento County Coroner's Office released her name. Anahi, 14, was an eighth-grader at Cooley Middle School in Roseville.Her principal described her as a beautiful, smart student, adored by classmates and teachers.Anahi's family recently moved out of the Roseville school district to the Antelope area, but they were able to keep her attending Cooley so she could be with her friends.The school brought in extra counselors Thursday, but some parents took their kids out of class.Tovar was a passenger in the vehicle her father, 35-year-old Jose Luis Tovar-Barriga, was driving when they were hit from the side by a truck driven by two teens trying to get away from police along Antelope Road.Tovar-Barriga also died instantly in the crash.Watch report: Aftermath of Antelope chase, crash: Who are the victims, suspects?Three suspects were arrested after the high-speed chase and manhunt that began in Loomis and ended in Antelope on Wednesday morning. They're set for court appearances soon.

As teenage twins led police on a chase in Antelope, they rammed a white car, killing two people inside who weren't involved in the pursuit -- including a teenage girl, identified Thursday as Anahi Tovar.

The Sacramento County Coroner's Office released her name. Anahi, 14, was an eighth-grader at Cooley Middle School in Roseville.

Her principal described her as a beautiful, smart student, adored by classmates and teachers.

Anahi's family recently moved out of the Roseville school district to the Antelope area, but they were able to keep her attending Cooley so she could be with her friends.

The school brought in extra counselors Thursday, but some parents took their kids out of class.

Tovar was a passenger in the vehicle her father, 35-year-old Jose Luis Tovar-Barriga, was driving when they were hit from the side by a truck driven by two teens trying to get away from police along Antelope Road.

Tovar-Barriga also died instantly in the crash.

Watch report: Aftermath of Antelope chase, crash: Who are the victims, suspects?

Three suspects were arrested after the high-speed chase and manhunt that began in Loomis and ended in Antelope on Wednesday morning. They're set for court appearances soon.