Johnson City Officer David Smith, 43, was shot and killed after a crazed man grabbed his gun from his holster during a disturbance call Monday morning, according to police. (Johnson City Polce Department)

An upstate New York police officer was shot and killed by a crazed man who snatched his gun from his holster during a disturbance call Monday morning, according to police.

Johnson City Officer David Smith, 43, was shot multiple times outside an MRI office near Binghamton after a disturbed employee managed to grab his gun just after 7 a.m., said Police Chief Joseph Zikuski.

Advertisement

The married 18-year police veteran, who has an 11-year-old son, had just arrived at Southern Tier Imaging when MRI technician James Clark, 43, wildly ran up to him before punching him several times as he was trying to exit his vehicle, said Zikuski.

During the attack witnesses said Clark managed to somehow grab Smith's weapon and repeatedly open fire until the 40-caliber duty's magazine was spent.

Advertisement

Police are still working to understand a motive for the tragic shooting which left an 18-year police veteran dead. (www.pressconnects.com)

"Once Officer Smith was down, then the suspect shot him two more times," said Zikuski at an afternoon press conference.

Clark was consequently killed by a responding officer with a single gunshot wound. He died a couple hours later in surgery, said Zikuski.

"At this point we have no idea why Clark did what he did ... he spoke with family members before he went to work. Everything appeared to be normal," said Zikuski.

Officer Smith was just getting out of his car at the MRI center when Clark allegedly attacked him. (www.pressconnects.com)

"By the time he arrived for work at Southern Tier Imaging, there was a change drastically where he didn't seem to be mentally stable upon his arrival there. So we really don't know," he said.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Clark, he said, had no criminal record aside from a drunken driving arrest 15 or 20 years ago. Co-workers further described him as a "model employee."

As for Smith, "His mother told me he wanted to be a Police Officer since he was a small child," Zikuski told the Daily News in an email Monday night. "He will be deeply missed by his family and his comrades."

Gov. Cuomo released a similar statement on Smith's death late Monday afternoon.

"I was deeply saddened to learn that Officer David Wayne Smith was killed in the line of duty today. Officer Smith was a 19 year veteran of the Johnson City police force. We are deeply grateful for his service and extend our heartfelt condolences to Officer Smith's family, friends and fellow officers," he said.

Advertisement

Southern Tier Imaging refused comment through a messaging service when contacted by the Daily News.

ngolgowski@nydailynews.com

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE