ASHEBORO — It all started when a man walked into a Subway restaurant here late one Thursday night.

According to witnesses, Ronnie Fichera talked to himself while he ate — then attacked a cardboard display before leaving.

A scared restaurant employee called Asheboro police, who arrived about 10:06 p.m. Fichera was in the parking lot, behind the wheel of his green Ford Expedition. An open container of alcohol was visible.

The officer approached the SUV and asked Fichera to get out.

But he didn’t. He turned the car on instead and drove off, almost hitting the officer.

And just like that, the night turned.

Fichera, 46, of South Boston, Va., led police on a high-speed chase that covered two counties, involved four law enforcement agencies and resulted in one death — Reagan Hartley, a 22-year-old college student. Fichera’s Expedition hit her Volvo head-on, ending the pursuit 30 minutes after it started.

Many questions remain about that April 3 night. Chief among them: How were authorities not able to stop Fichera as he made his way from Asheboro to Greensboro?

Part of the answer lies in recently released 911 calls and law enforcement radio communications obtained by the News & Record. They paint a picture of concern inherent in high-speed chases — and chaos.

At one point, Fichera illegally entered Interstate 40 by using an exit ramp.

Randleman police followed. Only they didn’t realize they and Fichera were going the wrong way.

• • •

Police have to decide, often in a matter of seconds, if they will pursue someone or not, said Brian Cheek, the captain of professional standards for the Greensboro Police Department.

“It’s easy as commanders to look back and say this or that should have happened, but you have to look at the officer behind the wheel and what decisions they have to make,” Cheek said.

He used the example of Menice Smith, a man believed to have killed two women and critically injured a third in Greensboro on March 24.

Police chased him through city streets before he wrecked the car he was driving and committed suicide.

“It was a case of the greater good for the public to continue the pursuit because he was going to end it or we were,” Cheek said.

Since 2010, Greensboro police have been involved in roughly 60 pursuits a year.

The reasons the chases started varied from traffic offenses to larceny to drugs.

Almost half the pursuits in 2011 (48 percent) and 2012 (49 percent) were over 80 mph.

And about 75 percent of chases in 2011 and 2012 ended when the driver either ran off the road, decided to stop — or wrecked.

That’s what happened in Greensboro on April 3.

• • •

Two Asheboro police cruisers began pursuing Fichera on Fayetteville Street, where he crossed the center line several times.

At one point, Asheboro police said Fichera blew through a 35 mph zone at speeds approaching 80 mph.

He continued driving to U.S. 220 Business, where two Randleman police cruisers took up the chase.

In Randleman, Fichera stayed on U.S. 220 Business, which becomes Randleman Road.

In a 12-minute call, the Randolph County 911 dispatcher tells the Guilford County dispatcher that Fichera was “intoxicated.”

About halfway through the call, Guilford County law enforcement confirms to Randolph County that they will take over the pursuit as Fichera headed north on Randleman Road past South Elm-Eugene Street into Greensboro.

That’s when things got even more frenetic.

l l l

Fichera bolted onto Preddy Boulevard, then drove down an exit ramp onto eastbound I-40. He was driving the wrong way.

And two other cars were behind him.

A Guilford County sheriff’s deputy, who had been traveling west on I-40, joined the chase and was stunned by the sight.

“Randleman police just went the wrong way,” the deputy said over the radio.

In an interview, Randleman Police Chief Steven Leonard explained that his two officers had followed traffic laws up to that point. However, when Fichera got to the Preddy Boulevard area, on Greensboro’s south side, they were on roads they weren’t as familiar with.

“He turned left on Preddy (Boulevard) and both officers followed,” Leonard said. “They weren’t sure where they were going.”

• • •

The chase continued.

High Point Road. Vanstory Street. Murrayhill Road. Then back onto High Point Road, heading toward I-40.

By now, Randleman police had turned over pursuit to the Guilford County Sheriff’s Office.

How many vehicles were involved in their pursuit is unknown. An official for the sheriff’s office declined to provide that information, referring questions to the Guilford County District Attorney’s Office, which is investigating the incident.

Officials there declined to answer questions as well, citing their investigation .

But we do know this: Deputies that night were unable to do the things that are typically employed to stop a vehicle during a chase.

They couldn’t use Stop Sticks — devices put on the road to deflate tires. Fichera’s path was too erratic.

Ramming Fichera’s Expedition — known by police as a PIT maneuver, or precision immobilization technique — was prohibited because of the SUV’s size.

All the officers could do was follow.

And wait.

Fichera continued on High Point Road and then reached I-40 from an exit ramp.

For the second time that night, Fichera drove the wrong way on the interstate, travelling west in the eastbound lanes.

According to radio traffic, a female officer asked a supervisor if she should follow.

“Do not go the wrong way. Do not go the wrong way. I’m getting on westbound now,” he said.

According to radio calls, deputies speculated that Fichera might get off at Wendover Avenue and asked Guilford County dispatchers to try to get Greensboro police officers to those exit ramps to stop him there.

But Fichera didn’t get that far.

He crashed, head-on, into a Volvo driven by Reagan Hartley near the Patterson Avenue exit.

Police estimated he was going between 80 and 90 mph on impact.

When firefighters arrived, Fichera’s Expedition was smoking and partially on fire.

Both Fichera and Hartley were pinned inside their vehicles and had to be extricated by firefighters.

Both were taken to the hospital. Both had different outcomes. Fichera survived with serious injuries.

Hartley died in the ambulance. She was 22.

• • •

She was a senior at Western Carolina University studying elementary education.

A look at her Facebook and Twitter profiles reveals a woman who was a devoted Republican, not OK with singers Katy Perry and John Mayer breaking up, a fan of the TV show “Pretty Little Liars” and happy to be on spring break.

Of late, she’d been applying for every open teaching position she could find.

Her last tweet was posted about 7:50 p.m. — a little more than two hours before she died:

“I have the best mom in the history of the world. She knows the perfect cure to a bad day is tickets to see Chelsea Handler Saturday!”

Unknown to Hartley at the time was that her life was about to change by the turning of an ignition key.