Comment on this story Comment Gift Article Share

A man was killed and two others were wounded Saturday in separate shootings involving Prince George’s County police officers, authorities said. The two incidents, which occurred nine hours and six miles apart, kept police busy Saturday. In one of them, an officer was struck by a car that two suspects used to flee the scene, police said.

Before dawn in the Capitol Heights area, an officer shot and killed a man who police said appeared to be reaching for a weapon. In the early afternoon in the Clinton area, two officers shot and wounded two men after the men struck an officer with a vehicle.

Police said two officers patrolling in Capitol Heights heard shots fired at Marlboro Pike and Lee Jay Drive just before 4 a.m. The officers saw a man leaving the area on foot and holding his side, police spokeswoman Julie Parker said.

Advertisement

When the officers approached the man, one noticed him reaching for a handgun in his waistband, she said. The officer fired at the man multiple times. He died at a hospital.

Police identified him as Robert Antonio Jones, 24, of the 2700 block of Lorring Drive in Forestville.

Police said officers recovered a gun at the scene.

The officer who fired the shots was identified Sunday as Officer Brian Newcomer, who has been in law enforcement for nine years. Parker said earlier that Newcomer was new to Prince George’s but had served previously with Hyattsville police. He was placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation and was not injured, the department said Sunday.

A few miles away on Saturday afternoon, officers responding to a call about a domestic dispute in the 8600 block of Temple Hill Road in Clinton saw a man running from the home to a car where another man was waiting. Officers approached the vehicle on foot to get the men to stop, but the car took off at high speed, striking one of the officers, police said.

Advertisement

“They are making every effort to escape and ultimately use that vehicle as a weapon,” Prince George’s Lt. Bill Alexander said. “One officer is struck by the car and two of our officers discharged their duty weapons towards the suspects.”

Police said the incident occurred about 1 p.m. The men left the scene, but were later found at separate area hospitals suffering from gunshot wounds, police said. The vehicle was found abandoned at a different location, Alexander said.

“It is a complicated investigation with multiple parts and multiple scenes. It is still very preliminary in the investigation which is obviously ongoing,” Alexander said.

Police said one of the men has a connection to the woman who reported the domestic incident at the Clinton home. Both suspects face charges related to breaking and entering. The driver faces additional first-degree assault charges, police said Sunday.

Advertisement

The men remained in the hospital Saturday afternoon with critical injuries but in stable condition, Alexander said. The officer who was struck by the car was also taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.

“Police work is dangerous, and these are two perfect examples of officers having their lives threatened and being forced to engage the suspects,” said Alexander.

Michelle Boorstein contributed to this report.

Gift this article Gift Article