Either email addresses are anonymous for this group or you need the view member email addresses permission to view the original message

CA Man Commits `Suicide By Cop'

Fontana, CA - 1/21/2002

Inland Valley Daily Bulletin

By ANDREW SILVA and DAVID BRADVICA

In what appeared to be an instance of ''suicide by cop,'' Fontana

police officers shot and killed a man Friday night after he summoned

them to his Southridge residence with a 911 call and pointed a pellet

gun at them, authorities said.

Police said the man, identified as 23-year-old Daniel Ladd of Fontana,

called 911 shortly after 11 p.m. and identified himself as his

teen-aged brother. He told the 911 operator that his brother had just

shot and killed his mother.

Two officers were at the doorstep of the home in the 11500 block of

Gold Hill Avenue within three minutes of the 911 call. They were

confronted by a man who appeared to be carrying a chrome semiautomatic

handgun inside the darkened house, Fontana police Capt. Tim Ousley

said.

The man ignored repeated orders to drop the weapon and show his hands

before he pointed the gun at the officers. The two officers fired

simultaneously, Ousley said.

Ladd was struck by at least one round.

San Bernardino County Fire Department paramedics pronounced him dead

at the scene, San Bernardino County Supervising Deputy Coroner Randy

Emon said.

Investigators subsequently determined that Ladd had made the false 911

call and had told others recently that he planned to have police kill

him. An attorney for one of the officers said Saturday that it was a

clear case of ''suicide by cop,'' where suicidal people provoke

officers into killing them.

''It's unfortunate that people who want to kill themselves would do so

by putting police officers in a position of danger,'' said Rancho

Cucamonga attorney Dieter C. Dammeier, whose law firm represents the

Fontana Police Officers Association. ''This can cause a lot of turmoil

in the officers' lives and that's also unfortunate.''

Police withheld the names of the two officers. Dammeier said the one

of the officers was a sergeant with 22 years of experience with the

Fontana department and the other officer had been with Fontana for

three years after working for five years for the Los Angeles Police

Department.

Neither officer had previously been involved in a shooting, Dammeier

said.

No one else was injured. Ladd's teen-age brother and mother were in

the home at the time of the shooting and Dammeier said their safety

also was a consideration in why officers fired their weapons at Ladd.

The weapon that Ladd pointed at the officers was found to be a pellet

gun, which police said strongly resembles a semiautomatic pistol.

The shooting shocked residents of the solidly middle-class Southridge

neighborhood. A block or so from the scene, scores of children played

soccer Saturday morning on a large grass field amid the single- and

two-story stucco homes.

Jesus Sandoval, 45, lives across the street from the tan, single-story

home with an American flag in the window where the shooting occurred.

He said there were never problems in the area.

''This is a nice neighborhood,'' he said.

Neighbors said Ladd lived in the home on the 11500 block of Gold Hill

Avenue with his brother, mother and grandmother.

Boys in the neighborhood said they occasionally spent time with the

younger son, but didn't know Ladd very well.

Next-door neighbor David Arteaga, 49, said he has greeted Ladd a few

times but didn't really know him.

''He was quiet, didn't bother anybody,'' he said.

''They really pretty much kept to themselves,'' said Ruth Arteaga, 38.

''Our kids would sometimes play with the younger brother.''

Both officers are likely to be given a few days off from work and

access to psychological counseling, Dammeier said.

Fontana police said Saturday that the investigation into the shooting

was being conducted by the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department.

Dammeier indicated that a Fontana police lieutenant also interviewed

the officers about the incident as part of the department's internal

review.

''We were called in to investigate in order to avoid the appearance of

bias,'' said sheriff's spokesman Chip Patterson.

Sheriff's officials will forward the results of their investigation to

the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office, which will

determine if the filing of criminal charges against the officers are

warranted, and to Fontana police for their internal review, Patterson

said.

Ken (NY)

--

Chairperson,

Department of Redundancy Department

____________________________________

Presidential Memoirs . . . Bill Clinton

is getting $12 million for his memoirs,

and Hillary got $8 million for hers.

That's $20 million for two people who

for eight years couldn't remember anything.

No trees were harmed to bring you

this e-Presentation...

