Two Wauconda police officers have been cleared in a shooting that left a man dead earlier this month, authorities said.

The officers — whom authorities are not naming — shot John Nightingale, 36, at his home in the northwest suburban town after he pointed a loaded handgun at them and refused to put it down, according to George Filenko, Round Lake Park police chief and head of the Lake County Major Crime Task Force, which handled the investigation.

Advertisement

"They identified themselves, and he pointed a handgun at them, which was loaded," said Lake County State's Attorney Mike Nerheim. "(The officers) ordered the individual to drop the gun, he didn't, and they felt that they were in fear of being shot. They responded by shooting the subject."

Police responded to a call from Nightingale's roommate on April 7. Nightingale was wanted by Cary police for a report of a stolen pickup truck, authorities said.

Advertisement

When police got to the home where Nightingale was staying on the 100 block of Slocum Lake Road, the two officers involved in the shooting went to the back of the house, where they encountered Nightingale in a doorway, police said.

Nightingale pointed a loaded .38-caliber snub-nosed revolver at officers, police said. When he refused to put down the weapon, police opened fire.

"He was ordered several times to drop the weapon, which he failed to do," said Filenko.

Nightingale did not fire his weapon, Filenko said.

The two officers fired eight shots, Filenko said. Four hit Nightingale, he said.

Nightingale was pronounced dead at Advocate Condell Medical Center in Libertyville.

Wauconda Deputy Police Chief Tom Bender said the male officers, one of whom is a 15-year veteran of the force and another who has been an officer for 20 years, have returned to active duty.

"It was an unfortunate circumstance, obviously, but we acted appropriately," Bender said. "I think that was borne out in the investigation."

Advertisement

The decision to clear the officers came after an investigation from the Lake County Major Crime Task Force that lasted more than a week, authorities said.

Nerheim said he and others at the state's attorney's office decided the use of force was warranted.

"It's clear to me that the shooting was justified based on the circumstances of the case," Nerheim said.

Authorities are awaiting the results of a ballistic test on the gun, which will determine whether it had been used in other crimes, Filenko said. He said those results should be back in about a week.

Nightingale did not have a valid firearm owner's identification card, Filenko added.

dwaters@tribune.com | Twitter: @danwaters33