VALLEJO (CBS SF) -- Vallejo police have identified the man killed by two police officers Wednesday afternoon as 29-year-old Ever Ramon Martinez of Alameda County.

Martinez had an outstanding warrant for reckless driving in San Benito County, Vallejo police Lt. Sid DeJesus said.

Martinez was never issued a driver's license and had an extensive history of traffic related violations since 2002, DeJesus said.

The names of the two veteran Vallejo police officers who shot Martinez have not been released. They were placed on paid administrative leave.

In a news release, DeJesus said a uniformed officer tried to stop Martinez's gold SUV for a traffic violation around 3 p.m. in the area of Sonoma Boulevard and Meadows Drive.

Martinez kept driving south on Sonoma Boulevard at about 30 mph and at one point did pull over, DeJesus said. When the officers approached his car, however, Martinez fled onto state Highway 37 to Interstate 80 at speeds up to 90 mph, DeJesus said.

Martinez was driving erratically on the shoulder and struck and destroyed 911 call boxes, DeJesus said.

Martinez got off the highway at Solano Avenue and entered the heavily-populated Solano 80 Shopping Center in the 2000 block of Solano Avenue, DeJesus said.

Witnesses said Martinez was driving recklessly and dangerously, DeJesus said.

"In an effort to stop the suspect from harming citizens, the officers attempted an intervention," DeJesus said. When the officers rotated Martinez's car, Martinez repeatedly rammed the marked patrol cars, "and at one point appeared to lock the vehicles together," DeJesus said.

"The suspect vehicle was moving toward a vehicle that contained a family. The officers repeatedly yelled at the suspect to stop but he failed to comply," DeJesus said.

"Based upon the imminent danger to themselves and the citizens in this heavily populated parking lot, the two uniformed officers engaged him with their handguns," DeJesus said.

Martinez was struck by gunfire and was taken to a local hospital where he died, DeJesus said.

Vallejo police and the Solano County District Attorney's Office are investigating the fatal officer-involved shooting.

© Copyright 2014 by CBS San Francisco and Bay City News Service. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.