A West Pullman man who authorities say fled police at high speeds, ending in a crash that ejected and killed his passenger last week on the Far South Side, died himself Monday, authorities said.

Glenn Jones, 27, had been charged with reckless homicide, aggravated fleeing and other crimes in connection with the Thursday night incident, which took place along a stretch of South State Street in West Pullman, according to Cook County court records. He was ordered held without bail in a hearing Sunday, but was pronounced dead Monday at 1:34 p.m. at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Advertisement

Dalila Smith, 23, of Skokie, was ejected from the passenger seat of Jones' 2009 Volkswagen Passat after Jones struck a tree in the 12300 block of South State after colliding with another vehicle, injuring two of its occupants, according to court records.

Jones was driving along South State around 7:15 p.m. Thursday when a police officer attempted to pull him over for not having a front license plate, according to court records and Assistant State's Attorney Claire Savaglio.

Advertisement

Jones initially pulled to the right, slowed down and then sped off on southbound State Street, at one point hitting 70 mph in a 30 mph zone, according to Savaglio and court records.

Jones sped through one stop sign and then through a traffic light in the 12300 block of South State, at which point he struck a vehicle occupied by a woman and two children, Savaglio said.

He then lost control of his car and struck a tree, ejecting Smith from the vehicle, Savaglio said.

Smith's death remains under investigation, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

A 35-year-old woman in the other vehicle suffered a broken leg, hip, shoulder and ribs and was taken to Advocate Christ Medical Center, Savaglio said.

A 14-year-old in the same vehicle suffered two broken fingers that required surgery, Savaglio said. An 11-year-old passenger in the vehicle was uninjured.

Police were in the process of "self-terminating" their pursuit of Jones due to the speed of the chase and pedestrian safety, according to court records.

Jones, of the 200 block of East 121st Place, was in the intensive care unit at Christ hospital Sunday, according to a police officer who testified to his whereabouts Sunday in Cook County bond court.

Advertisement

Authorities identified Jones via his fingerprints after he gave a false name and birthdate to police, according to court records.

Jones was also wanted on a DuPage County arrest warrant after he failed to appear in court there on a charge of driving on a suspended license, according to Cook County court records.

An autopsy was scheduled for Tuesday on Jones' body.

chicagobreaking@tribune.com| Twitter: @ChicagoBreaking