Kevin Robinson

krobinson4@pnj.com

An Escambia County deputy has been ruled justified in fatally shooting a Pensacola man who was armed with a knife as he reportedly approached the deputy, the State Attorney's Office said.

In April Thomas Fillingim was shot and killed by Deputy Albert Kalber at a residence on Bent Oak Road, an official report said. Fillingim's family had called 911 because Fillingim had cut his own throat with a knife.

Kalber made entry into the home to ensure the residence was safe for medical personnel, the report said. Kalber told investigators he encountered Fillingim and another male as they entered a narrow hallway from the restroom. Kalber said Fillingim was armed with a folding knife with an approximately 3-4 inch blade.

Kalber said that he ordered Fillingim to drop the knife, and Fillingim did not comply. Kalber said that he backed away, and Fillingim continued to approach him with the weapon. When Fillingim came within three feet, Kalber shot him once in the stomach. Fillingim was transported to Baptist Hospital where he was later pronounced dead.

According to the release, a toxicology report revealed Fillingim had alcohol, cocaine, muscle relaxers and other drugs in his system. Family members also reportedly said that Fillingim had a history of mental illness and had attempted to commit suicide on prior occasions.

Witnesses in in the home gave slightly differing accounts of the circumstances of Fillingim's shooting.

Linda Fillingim, the deceased's daughter, and Marcus McDaniel, Fillingim's brother-in-law, said that Kalber gave no verbal commands before shooting, according to the report. Other witnesses said that Fillingim had been attempting to hand the knife to someone else.

Despite those inconsistencies, the State Attorney's Office determined that Kalber reasonably believed his use of force was necessary to prevent death of great bodily harm to himself or another.

"While (there may be dispute as to the specific series of events preceding the gunshot,) the facts support that Thomas Fillingim did move towards Deputy Kalber while armed with a knife, creating in Deputy Kalber a well-founded fear of imminent violence," the report said. "Deputy Kalber was very close to Thomas Fillingim at that point, had virtually no time to react to the situation, and was not in a physical position to be able to retreat from what he perceived as aggression by Thomas Fillingim."

The investigation of the shooting has been closed, and the State Attorney's Office will take no further action.