Cops fatally shoot 86-year-old deaf father 'after he shot both his daughter 65, and his dog who are still alive in critical condition'

Police say the gunman who allegedly shot his daughter and dog, later identified as Jack Calvello, refused to drop his gun

Neighbors describe Calvello as a 'normal guy' and 'the kind of guy you would see at the supermarket'



Calvello is dead but both the 65-year-old victim and the dog are still alive and in critical condition







New York city police say a uniformed officer shot and killed an 86-year-old man after he refused to drop his gun.



They say the gunman, later identified as Jack Calvello, may have shot a woman before police arrived at the scene at 31-28 38th Street in Astoria, Queens today.



Police say a 911 call came in at 11:16 a.m., and the caller said he had shot his daughter.



Jack Calvello, 86, was shot dead by police late this morning after he allegedly shot his daughter and his dog at his Astoria home (pictured)

Officers found a man armed with a gun and the man refused an order to drop his weapon, then pointed his gun at the officers; one of the officers then shot him.



The 86-year-old gunman Calvello, who was also deaf, was pronounced dead at a hospital.



Witnesses Bryan Garcia and Eric Soto were playing basketball across the street and saw the bloody crime unveil before their eyes.



'(Cops) were yelling 'Get out, get out!' and then he comes out with a gun, pointing at them. They said 'Drop it, drop it!' loud, and he doesn't, so then we heard two shots, and he falls back into the doorway," Garcia said.

'It looked like they hit him in the chest, he fell straight back,'he told The New York Daily News.



Garcia also said that the gun appeared to be a double barreled shotgun.

Soto, 15, said he and Garcia were just 10 feet away from the shooting and close enough to see the bright flash from the cops' gun blasts.



'When they shot him, it made us shake,' Soto said.

'At that point we covered our heads and ran, we were terrified.'



'That was the first time we've seen someone die, so it was terrifying,' Garcia added.



Officers from the 114th Precinct responded to a family dispute with a firearm at 31-28 38th Street (pictured here) in Astoria

A 65-year-old woman was found inside the house with a gunshot wound at her head. She is in critical condition at another hospital.



Neighbors identified that gunman as Jack Cavello, a deaf man who wore a hearing aid and lived on the block for years.



A police source told the New York Daily News that the dog was a brown Yorkshire terrier. It suffered a laceration to the neck but is expected to live.



A man who owns a business in the neighborhood where Calvello lived said that Calvello shared the two story home and scene of the crime with his wife and his daughter.



'I didn't know of any problems he had with his family. If he did, he never said anything to me, the man who wished not to be named said of Calvello.



'He told me a while ago that he had a gun, but he didn't talk about it much. He tried to sell the gun to a pawn shop about a year ago.'



Dean Rocco, 29, who works at Astoria Home Reality close to the incident said that Calvello seemed normal.



'I know the guy, everyone in the neighborhood knows him...He seemed like a normal guy, I see him going to the supermarket.'