Man who was tasered FOUR TIMES by cops as he carried on trying to beat them when they struggled to arrest him dies as they take him to the hospital

Edward Caruth, 38, died soon after he was tasered at least four times during an altercation with Phoenix cops

Staff at Freddy's Frozen Custard & Steakburgers in West Valley, Arizona, called police after Caruth started acting strangely

Two officers arrived and Caruth started fighting with them in the restaurant



The fight continued outside in the car park and it was only when backup arrived that police were able to bring the suspect to order



An Arizona man is dead following a violent altercation with Phoenix law enforcement officials last Sunday night.



Edward Caruth, 38, repeatedly struggled with two police officers who were attempting an arrest him at Freddy’s Frozen Custard & Steakburgers in West Valley, Arizona.



Video footage captured by employees shows the two officers struggling to handcuff the suspect.

Edward Caruth, 38, repeatedly struggled with two police officers who were attempting an arrest him at Freddy's Frozen Custard & Steakburgers in West Valley, Arizona

In the footage Caruth can be seen striking the officers numerous times as they use their stun guns in an effort to stop him

Caruth agreed to get on his knees, but refused to obey further commands and then attacked the officers.



In the footage he can be seen striking the officers numerous times as they use their stun guns in an effort to stop him.

Shockingly the devices failed to subdue the man and the fight continued in the restaurant car park.

'At that point he became physically resistant with the officers to the point where they were in a physical battle, if you will, for three, four, five minutes trying to get this guy into custody,' said Phoenix police spokesman Officer James Holmes told CBS5AZ.com.

Edward Caruth, 38, was taken to a local hospital, where he was later pronounced dead

Eventually another two officers arrived and the four of them are able to secure Caruth, who then began showing signs of medical distress.



He was taken to a local hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.



'We don’t know what caused his behavior,' said Holmes. 'In these cases we suspect that there may be prescription drugs or illegal drugs. We won’t know that until there’s an autopsy.'



The original officer and sergeant were injured as they attempted to apprehend the suspect and both were transported to a local hospital, but were later released.



Holmes said it still isn't clear why the suspect was at the business and the cause of his behavior has not been determined.

Just prior to the attack he had damaged restaurant property by turning on faucets and flooding the washrooms, he had also damaged counters and tired to gain access to the kitchen area.



The investigation is continuing by Phoenix police and the Medical Examiner's Office.



Footage of the fight was captured by a restaurant employees and uploaded to YouTube.

Shockingly the devices failed to subdue Caruth and the fight continues in the restaurant car park





