PLAINWELL, MI – Jeremy Smeltzer was drunk when he drove his pickup truck the wrong way on U.S. 131 in April and caused a crash that killed him and 21-year-old Jaryd Ford of Plainwell.

Smeltzer's blood-alcohol level was measured at 0.214 percent, more than 2 1/2 times the legal limit for driving of 0.08 percent, following the crash, according to a Michigan State Police laboratory report. The lab results were contained in a 33-page police report on the April 15 crash, which occurred at 11:56 p.m. in the southbound lanes of U.S. 131 just south of Plainwell.

Ford was killed instantly when Smeltzer's pickup truck collided head-on with Ford's Mustang. Smeltzer, 29, was taken to Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo, where he was pronounced dead. Megan Covey, 26, a passenger of Ford's, suffered two broken legs and a broken elbow, according to the police report.

The report, obtained Friday by the Kalamazoo Gazette under the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, pieces together a timeline of Smeltzer's activities in the hours leading up to the crash, but provides no clear answers as to how he ended up driving his Chevrolet pickup truck north in the southbound lanes of U.S. 131 for 18 miles, from Centre Avenue in Portage to the scene of the crash.

The day after the crash, Trooper Mitchell Dyer interviewed Chad Earle, a friend of Smeltzer who said he called Smeltzer just after 6 p.m. April 15 and invited him to meet a group of people for drinks at Shifters Bar and Grill on West Main Street in Oshtemo Township.

A vigil was held Thursday, April 17, for Jaryd Ford, of Plainwell, who was killed when his Ford Mustang was hit head-on by a driver going the wrong way on U.S. 131.

Earle said Smeltzer was drinking Bell's Oberon, but didn't know how many of the beers he had consumed, according to Dyer's report. Earle, who was drinking Bell's Two Hearted Ale, told the trooper that after Smeltzer left the bar, he received his receipt and realized that "Jeremy had been drinking on his tab." Earle provided a copy of the receipt to Dyer, which showed a $47.75 tab for five Two Hearted Ales and six "premium pints."

"At approximately 11:00 p.m., Earle advised Jeremy came up to him and told him he was leaving," Dyer wrote in the report. "Earle didn't notice anything wrong with Jeremy and figured he needed/wanted to get home. Earle stated that Jeremy seemed normal and commented that nothing unusual stood out to him or anybody else in the group."

About 40 minutes later, between 11:40 and 11:45 p.m., James Hendrixson spotted Smeltzer's truck getting onto U.S. 131 at Centre Avenue going north in the southbound lanes.

"James estimated that he was traveling between 75-80 mph," Trooper Andy Sholander wrote in his report. "He stated that the suspect vehicle was going much faster than his vehicle and he quickly lost sight of it."

Police interviewed other motorists who reported seeing Smeltzer's truck, including Jennifer Nicholson. She first saw it on northbound U.S. 131 at I-94 then watched as several vehicles in the southbound lanes swerved to avoid Smeltzer.

Nicholson called 911 as she was approaching the U.S. 131 Business Loop north of West Main Street. Nicholson told police Smeltzer was "driving straight as an arrow in the fast lane."

"Nicholson stated it appeared to her the pickup truck wasn't trying to hit other vehicles but wasn't avoiding them either," Dyer wrote in his report.

Nicholson told Dyer that Smeltzer was traveling at about 80 mph when she first saw his pickup truck, but later accelerated to speeds she estimated at 90 to 95 mph near D Avenue.

Smeltzer's truck was reported to be at D Avenue when Allegan County dispatchers first alerted Sholander and Trooper Andy Merryweather of the wrong-way pickup truck just after 11:53 p.m.

Sholander, who was on a separate traffic stop, responded from just north of 106th Avenue while Merryweather responded from eastbound M-89.

The camera inside Merryweather's car captured footage of the collision between Smeltzer's truck and Ford's Mustang.

Sholander was the first to encounter Smeltzer's truck. In his report, Sholander said he attempted to get Smeltzer's attention with his cruiser's spotlight to no avail. Sholander, who was on the west shoulder of the southbound lanes when Smeltzer passed him, had just turned around to pursue the pickup truck when Smeltzer's truck collided with Ford's Mustang.

Ford was on the on-ramp from eastbound M-89 to southbound U.S. 131 at the same time as Merryweather. The dash cam from Merryweather's cruiser shows Ford move onto the shoulder as Merryweather comes onto the ramp.

When police interviewed Covey after the crash, she told Detective Sgt. Matthew Doan that she and Ford were on their way to Steak N' Shake on West Main in Kalamazoo when the crash occurred.

"She stated that after the police car passed them that they got back onto the roadway and proceeded to pull out onto U.S. 131. "She stated she observed the police car that had just passed them pulling off onto the shoulder of the freeway. She stated Jaryd, who was just entering the freeway at this time, began to pull their vehicle over into the left (lane) so that they could pass the police car safely.

"... She stated it all happened very fast and she was only able to yell, 'Jaryd lights.'"

Police spoke with Smeltzer's wife, Jennifer, at the emergency room at Bronson Methodist Hospital, where she was working the night of the crash.

Jeremy Smeltzer

Jennifer Smeltzer and Jeremy Smeltzer's father, Jerry, both told police that Smeltzer consumed alcohol regularly when he was younger but had stopped drinking and smoking because "recently they were trying to start a family and so they had stopped drinking."

Jennifer Smeltzer told police her husband was a good man, in good spirits and in line for a promotion at work. "Jennifer was unsure why Jeremy would drive the wrong direction on the expressway," the police report said.

Smeltzer's father gave a similar statement. He told police of an incident when Jeremy Smeltzer was younger when he walked into a person's house while he was intoxicated and was later charged with entering a residence without permission.

"Jerry commented that he thought ten years ago that something like this (the crash) could have happened but he was not expecting it now," the report said.

Rex Hall Jr. is a public safety reporter for the Kalamazoo Gazette. You can reach him at rhall2@mlive.com. Follow him on Twitter.