Updated Wednesday by staff writer Naheed Rajwani:

Dagoberto Castañon was sentenced Wednesday to 70 years in prison in the hit-and-run death of 13-year-old Ethan Vasquez.

Advertisement

Castañon, 26, was sentenced to 60 years for murder and five years for two failing to stop charges. The terms will run concurrently, and he will be eligible for parole after 30 years, half the murder sentence.

Advertisement

The sentencing comes a day after Castañon pleaded guilty in the 2014 crash. On Wednesday, he took the stand to apologize for his actions in the M Streets crash that killed the son of a Cedar Hill police officer and seriously injured the boy's mother.

Crime in The News Read the crime and public safety news your neighbors are talking about. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT

"I'm really truly sorry for what my actions caused, for taking an innocent child's life," he testified before he was sentenced.

Ethan's family spoke after the sentencing, saying they did not accept Castañon's apology.

Advertisement

"You've stolen many things in your life, but nothing compares to what you stole from our family," Ethan's mother, Sandy, told Castañon. "I have done all the right things [as a parent] and I have been given a life sentence."

Original post:

A 26-year-old man pleaded guilty to murder Tuesday in a 2

Advertisement

014 hit-and-run in the M Streets

Advertisement

that left a 13-year-old dead and his mother critically injured, WFAA-TV (Channel 8) reported.

Sentencing for Dagoberto Castanon is expected to continue Wednesday. State District Judge Gracie Lewis will determine Castanon's sentence. He faces up to life in prison.

Sandy Vasquez and her 13-year-old son Ethan. Ethan was killed and his mother was critically injured in a crash in the M Streets in April 2014. (Facebook)

Ethan Vasquez, the son of a Cedar Hill police officer, was killed in April 2014 and his mother Sandy was injured after the car they were traveling in was struck by a stolen minivan driven by Castanon.

Highland Park police pursued the minivan after it ran a stop sign, but later abandoned the chase as the minivan fled into Dallas.

Advertisement

The car ran another stop sign near Monticello Avenue and Homer Street and slammed into the Vasqueze's car.

Castanon and another man, Rogelio Avila, fled the scene on foot and were

later arrested in Florida.

Avila was arrested on a probation violation.