Therese Apel, tapel@gannett.com

Police say a man in Nettleton chased his brother down the street on Wednesday, shooting the whole time, and stood over him firing shots until he was dead.

Information released by the Department of Public Safety shows that Otis Eugene Bass, 49, of Shannon, was the gunman who killed Joseph Valie Bass, 44, who was his brother, as well as Jamie C. Guin, 33, of Mantachie.

Otis Bass was then killed by police when he fired shots at them.

Lee County Sheriff Jim Johnson said the altercation started inside a vehicle carrying the three victims and another man on Wednesday. The men had left the United Furniture plant, where they worked. They were driving down Main Street, which is on the line of Lee and Monroe counties.

"At some point in time, there was an argument between the shooter and the other occupants of the vehicle," Lee said.

Otis Bass shot Guin and Joseph Bass with a handgun. The scene unfolded practically at the doorstep of the Baptist church, Lee said.

Guin, who was shot in the chest, fell out of the vehicle and was taken to North Mississippi Medical Center in Tupelo, where he died. Guin was apparently not related to the Basses.

"He's got a different last name, so we're assuming he was just the innocent guy that got in the car with them," Johnson said.

Joseph Bass was wounded tried to run away, but his brother ran after him and shot him several more times times. He died in the street from gunshot wounds to the head and chest.

"Witnesses said he got on top of him and fired several rounds into him, and that was fatal," Johnson said.

Nettleton police drove up and began speaking to the car's fourth occupant, who police do not believe was involved in the altercation. He was, however, also a family member.

At that point, Johnson said, the Otis Bass approached from behind the police car and began shooting, hitting the car and knocking out the back window. That's when the officer returned fire, killing Bass on the scene.

The shooting is being investigated by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation and Mississippi Highway Patrol.

Nettleton has about 2,000 people, and the shootings took place in a fairly residential area, officials said. Schools were locked down for a short time.

The officer involved in the shooting is a veteran officer, Johnson said. He praised him for reacting well under pressure and potentially preventing more casualties.

"He's a seasoned officer. He had worked at several different departments before Nettleton. I think he had some military experience as well," Johnson said. "As far as reacting the way he should react in his training, we see nothing he did other than defend himself and more than likely save several other people, because it didn't look like this guy was going to stop."

The fourth man in the vehicle is cooperating with police and is being treated strictly as a witness, Johnson said.

"The fourth guy is really an individual that can 100 percent put all the pieces together. He knows the conversation, the demeanors, and he knows all the individuals," he said. "When he was talking with the officer, it was a friendly conversation. He is actually the one that warned the officer that the shooter was on the way back."

Johnson said because the community is small, he knew the Bass brothers, but he didn't know of them having any kind of criminal past. The rest of the community knew them too.

"It's unfortunate that it happened right at the doorsteps of the Baptist church, and there were a lot of church folks there," he said. "They immediately offered help and prayers. We need a lot of prayers. That's the only way to get through it."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.