By Kristine Guerra and Tim Evans

An Easter Lilly and a few pink roses sat on the front porch of the Inishmore Court home.

A cop car and a van from a biohazard cleaning crew were parked outside.

Nothing else on Friday hinted of the terror that happened in the two-story home at the end of the cul-de-sac the day before. The crime-scene tape that cordoned off the house is gone. Police officers and squad cars that had crowded the block are no longer there.

Less than 48 hours ago, two Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department officers were found dead inside the Far-Westside home. Police say Sgt. Ryan Anders fatally shot his ex-wife, Officer Kim Carmack, before turning the gun on himself.

IMPD Chief Rick Hite said Anders and Carmack were at the center of a domestic-violence investigation that began on March 12, after the agency received an internal tip. Both police officers had been on administrative leave since, and their department-issued weapons had been taken as part of the investigation. A protective order was issued against Anders on March 31.

The shootings left a grieving police department. And another IMPD officer, Carmack's son, Dustin Carmack, is now without a mother.

"We deal with murder-suicides all the time. It's tough if it's our own," Hite said during a news conference Friday morning. "We don't take this lightly."

Hite said Carmack had been assigned a domestic violence advocate and had been given a safe place to go. Anders was given counseling and help with mental-health issues. The police chief added that investigators checked in with both officers daily, both verbally and physically.

On Thursday, Hite said police believed Carmack was still safe, but she decided to go back to the Inishmore home she had once shared with Anders. Anders, who was on a monitoring device, went to the house using someone else's car, one that police were not able to track. He went inside through the back patio door and fired multiple shots at Carmack before fatally shooting himself, Hite said.

Public Safety Director Troy Riggs said someone had called for a welfare check at the home in the 2400 block of Inishmore Court in the Country Club Place subdivision, north of 21st Street and about half a mile east of Country Club Road.

Before SWAT officers went inside, police learned that a neighbor heard gunshots earlier that day, Riggs said. Police are unsure how long the couple had been dead before they were found at about 5:40 p.m. Marion County Chief Deputy Coroner Alfie Ballew said an autopsy is scheduled for Saturday.

Hite said IMPD made every effort to make sure both officers were safe, but "people make decisions beyond our recommendations."

The killings left lingering questions about how and why the act of violence occurred. Police did not say what kind of monitoring device Anders was on. It's unclear how he knew Carmack was in the Inishmore Court home, how and where he got the gun, or what kind of gun it was.

It also is unknown when the couple's marital troubles began and how those problems escalated. Efforts to reach family members were unsuccessful.

Records show that Anders, a nine-year IMPD veteran, and Carmack, a 20-year veteran, bought the home in 2011. A divorce was filed in April 2013 and was finalized in October.

'We lost two from a family'

Bill Owensby, president of the Fraternal Order of Police in Indianapolis, said "shock" is the only word to describe how he feels about the shootings.

"You just simply could not believe that it had to occur," Owensby said.

He knew both Anders and Carmack. He said he had known Carmack since her career with IMPD began and Anders just within the past two years. Anders was promoted to sergeant in 2011. Carmack, at one point, had worked as an undercover vice detective.

Carmack was good at her job, Owensby said.

"In her profession, she was perfect when it came to dealing with neighborhood talks and talks to businesses and crime prevention," Owensby said. "She had a calming personality."

Both, he said, were friendly people.

"She's always smiling and encouraging," Owensby said. "And him, too. He was kind of jokester."

Teri Veatch, who said she was a longtime friend of Carmack, stopped by the house Friday afternoon and placed an Easter Lilly and pink roses on the front porch. She sat there for several minutes, consoled by a male companion.

"They were her favorite," Veatch said of the roses.

Speaking briefly before she left, Veatch said Carmack was a great friend, mother and grandmother. She said she wanted to focus on happy memories of her friend.

"She was just an all-around wonderful person," Veatch said. "She was out to help everyone else. She served her community well."

She broke down as she talked about why she decided to return to the scene.

"It's unbelievable," she said. "It's so hard to think ... Just hard."

Retired IMPD Lt. Spencer Moore said he remembers Carmack as woman in her 20s, who began her career working for him as a secretary at the Crime Stoppers office in Downtown Indianapolis. He recalls seeing the young mother sitting at her desk, fielding phone calls, and laughing or chatting with people she worked with.

He remembers seeing Carmack's son every time she brought him to work. That toddler later followed his mother's career path. IMPD Officer Dustin Carmack was shot in the leg in 2011 while on the job.

"She's not just an officer who got killed," said Moore, who founded Crime Stoppers. "What I lost was a young girl who was in her early 20s, who was just a happy person. She didn't know a stranger. That's where my sadness is."

Moore is no stranger to grief. His son, IMPD Officer David Moore, was gunned down in 2011 while on the job. He said he feels for both Anders' and Carmack's families and for the police department. Sgt. Kendale Adams, an IMPD spokesman, said counseling services, such as a police wellness program and employee assistance, are available for grieving officers.

"We lost two from a family," Moore said. It's not an easy road."

Killings reflect common trend

A 2012 study by Ball State University on murder-suicides reveals a common trend seen in the Inishmore Court shootings: The people involved are or were in an intimate relationship.

The study examined 166 murder-suicides over a more than a century that were reported by The New York Times from 1858 to 2003. Kiesha Warren-Gordon, a Ball State criminal justice professor, said her research team found that in most cases, the perpetrators are men, usually armed with a gun.

"In nearly every case, such acts include people who are very well known to each other," Warren-Gordon said in a news release. "It is usually a husband or boyfriend who shoots his wife or girlfriend. This usually happens in a private residence or home, allowing the murder-suicide to occur in relative privacy."

Of the cases examined by Warren-Gordon's team, almost 77 percent of the victims are women. In about 78 percent of the murders, firearms are the weapons used.

Bryan Byers, another Ball State criminal justice professor, said in the release that researchers should examine intimate relationships between perpetrators and victims to better understand how situations escalate to violent deaths.

"We need to examine the long-standing violence patterns and warning signs," Byers said.

Star reporters Bill McCleery and Marisa Kwiatkowski and Star researcher Cathy Knapp contributed to this story. Contact Star reporter Kristine Guerra at (317) 444-6209. Follow her on Twitter: @kristine_guerra