BAY MINETTE, Alabama - A Summerdale man was indicted by a Baldwin County grand jury Thursday on a charge of murder related to an April 16 car chase in which he eluded police before crashing into in a vehicle on Alabama 59 and killing a Foley man.

Steven W. Little, 31, of 84 U.S. 59, was indicted on charges on a charge of murder to go along with previous charges of eluding police, reckless endangerment and two counts of DUI. He had been previously charged of manslaughter.

He was indicted for recklessly causing the death of 42-year-old Ronald J. Early by driving his truck at a high rate of speed along Alabama 59, refusing to pull over for police and running a red light in Foley. The incident led to Little striking Early's vehicle and killing him.

Little was taken to South Baldwin Regional Medical Center after the wreck., a search warrant was obtained, and samples of Little's blood were collected that tested positive for alcohol and marijuana.

Authorities have said that Little was driving south in the turning lane on Alabama 59 at a high rate of speed and passing cars.

Baldwin County Sheriff's Office Lt. Clint Cadenhead, who was in an unmarked vehicle headed to an assignment, turned on his car's siren and blue lights and caught up to the pickup Little was driving.

Little refused to stop. A deputy in a marked patrol car joined the pursuit.

Little, during the chase, stopped at a red light. The deputy got out of his car and started to approach Little's truck, but Little went into the turning lane, drove around cars and ran the red light.

The pursuit continued with three other deputies in marked patrol cars joining the chase.

Little eventually turned off Alabama 59 at some point and ended up driving through an apartment complex parking lot at about 50 mph. He is also reported as driving through a Winn Dixie parking lot at about 40 mph.

Little went back to Alabama 59 and headed north, and when his truck made it to Alabama 59 and Azalea Avenue, it collided with the Honda that Ealey was driving.

Little's truck hit a light pole and overturned. Little then ran from the truck, but deputies were able to quickly capture him.

Little is being held in the Baldwin County Corrections Center on $500,000 bail.