A teenage girl died Sunday after being badly injured when a car chase ended with a crash into a pond in White Township, Indiana County.State police said Alyssa Stancombe, 16, was a passenger in a car that went over an embankment, flipped onto its roof and landed in a pond near Indian Springs Road and State Route 954 (South Sixth Street) on the night of April 18.Stancombe was unable to get out of the vehicle and suffered "severe trauma and injury," police said. She was pulled out of the car and flown to Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she was pronounced dead at 4:50 p.m. Sunday. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.Police said the driver, Kevin Vasbinder, 21, of Mentcle, was ejected from the car when it crashed. A criminal complaint shows that he is charged with aggravated assault, accidents involving death or injury, recklessly endangering another person and fleeing or eluding police.(Court document: Read the criminal complaint)Police said the pursuit began after a trooper responded to a report of "a female individual attempting to steal items" from Walmart in White Township shortly before 10:50 p.m. on April 18, according to the criminal complain.The trooper tried to confront a female who had gotten into a car parked near a Staples store, but the driver went around the trooper's marked vehicle and turned right onto Route 286, then made a left onto Indian Springs Road and went through a red signal at Wayne Avenue before crossing over SR 954 and crashing into the pond, according to the complaint.

A teenage girl died Sunday after being badly injured when a car chase ended with a crash into a pond in White Township, Indiana County.

State police said Alyssa Stancombe, 16, was a passenger in a car that went over an embankment, flipped onto its roof and landed in a pond near Indian Springs Road and State Route 954 (South Sixth Street) on the night of April 18.

Advertisement Related Content Driver in pond crash that killed girl, 16, waives preliminary hearing

Stancombe was unable to get out of the vehicle and suffered "severe trauma and injury," police said. She was pulled out of the car and flown to Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she was pronounced dead at 4:50 p.m. Sunday. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.

Police said the driver, Kevin Vasbinder, 21, of Mentcle, was ejected from the car when it crashed. A criminal complaint shows that he is charged with aggravated assault, accidents involving death or injury, recklessly endangering another person and fleeing or eluding police.

(Court document: Read the criminal complaint)

Police said the pursuit began after a trooper responded to a report of "a female individual attempting to steal items" from Walmart in White Township shortly before 10:50 p.m. on April 18, according to the criminal complain.

The trooper tried to confront a female who had gotten into a car parked near a Staples store, but the driver went around the trooper's marked vehicle and turned right onto Route 286, then made a left onto Indian Springs Road and went through a red signal at Wayne Avenue before crossing over SR 954 and crashing into the pond, according to the complaint.