The suspected bank robber shot and killed by Tucson police Thursday was a fugitive wanted in California in connection with an assault on a peace officer.

On Friday, police released the name of the man shot and the names of the five officers who fired their guns during the incident.

The dead man was identified as Santiago Avila,﻿ 35, who was wanted on a warrant out of the city of Weed in Siskiyou County, according to online records.

Officers of the Weed Police Department arrested Avila on Dec. 16, 2013, for obstructing a peace officer and for battery on a peace officer, online records show. No other information was available. Weed is in the Mount Shasta area, near the Oregon border.

Sgt. Pete Dugan, ﻿a spokesman for the Tucson Police Department, said five officers fired their guns at Avila during the incident at the Wells Fargo bank at 145 E. 22nd St.

Avila, who was shot multiple times, was killed shortly after 1:30 p.m. after he ignored several commands to drop a handgun while outside the bank, police said.

Police said Avila had walked out of the bank armed with a handgun as officers arrived in response to a call about a robbery in progress. A teller had given to police a description of the robber over the phone.

Avila ignored officers’ repeated orders to stop.

He walked to a blue Jeep Cherokee and retrieved two boxes of ammunition, police said.

Officers shot Avila as he walked back toward the bank doors with a handgun in one hand and the ammunition boxes in the other, police said.

There were 16 people inside the bank and no one was injured in the incident.

Police said Avila’s gun was loaded and he had a loaded magazine in his front pocket, in addition to the two boxes of ammunition.

Efforts to revive Avila were unsuccessful and he died in the parking lot, police said.

The officers involved in the shooting were: Jeffry Dellinger, ﻿ a 23-year veteran; Pablo Camargo, ﻿ a 16-year veteran; Randy Lucero, ﻿ a 15-year veteran; Oscar Ramos, ﻿ a 13-year veteran; and Daniel Martinez, ﻿ a seven-year veteran.

No officers were injured. The five officers were placed on administrative leave, which is standard protocol for all shootings involving officers.