A Tulsa police officer and a sheriff’s deputy shot two teens, one of them fatally, after opening fire on a vehicle that was apparently fleeing a robbery early Saturday.

A Tulsa County sheriff’s deputy in the area of the El 7 Marez restaurant at 2124 S. Garnett Road responded to a reported robbery at the business just after 1 a.m., said Tulsa Police Officer Leland Ashley.

The robbers entered the restaurant, demanded cash in addition to two employees’ cell phones and wallets and then pistol-whipped the workers, police said.

The deputy arrived at the restaurant and saw two masked men enter a vehicle parked south of the scene. As the deputy pursued them, the driver drove the vehicle toward the deputy, and the deputy — along with a Tulsa police officer who also responded to the call — fired into the vehicle, Ashley said.

The vehicle rolled a short distance and stopped. The responding officers subdued one of the vehicle’s two male occupants, identified as 19-year-old Adrian Ayub, using less-lethal ammunition, according to police. He was later booked into the Tulsa Jail on an armed robbery complaint.

A second man and woman inside the vehicle suffered gunshot wounds.

Ashley said an 18-year-old woman was pronounced dead at the scene. EMSA transported a 17-year-old boy to the hospital in serious condition.

As investigators processed the vehicle, they discovered evidence allegedly indicating the occupants had committed a robbery at the Dollar General at 3920 S. Garnett Road just hours earlier, Ashley said.

A man with a similar description to one of the El 7 Marez robbers forced employees closing the Dollar General store at 11 p.m. inside to remove cash from a safe. The robber held the women at gunpoint while they waited to gain access to the safe, which requires a time-delay before opening, he said.

The Tulsa police officer was placed on paid administrative leave, as is routine within the department following an officer-involved shooting.

The sheriff’s deputy was already scheduled to be off duty until Monday morning, at which point administrators within his agency will determine whether he will be placed on leave, said Sheriff’s Maj. Shannon Clark.

The Tulsa County Sheriff’s Office was last involved in a deputy-involved shooting in March 2012 when Andrew Joseph “Joe” Dennehy began firing a handgun on the Tulsa County Courthouse plaza downtown, archives show. He was sentenced to 23 years in prison.

The shooting is the Tulsa Police Department’s second officer-involved shooting this year following the homicide of Deandre Starks on March 30. Starks was killed inside a residence during a confrontation with officers serving a search warrant at the home.

Police also fired at and missed the driver of a stolen vehicle who escaped apprehension earlier this month, said Sgt. Dave Walker.