Ron Barnett

GRE

An SUV driver hit speeds of at least 100 mph through Travelers Rest while fleeing from a police patrol car and eventually crashed into another vehicle, killing a 70-year-old man, authorities said.

The officer had given up the pursuit "a very few minutes" before he discovered the accident near 606 Tubbs Mountain Road, just inside the city limits, Police Chief Lance Crowe said.

"The officer just saw that for him to catch up with the guy was more jeopardy to the public than was warranted," he said.

The episode started shortly after 5:30 p.m. Wednesday, when an SUV heading north on two-lane Poinsett Highway in downtown Travelers Rest crossed the double yellow center line and passed a car in front of a police cruiser heading in the opposite direction.

The officer turned his siren on and turned around to try to stop the SUV.

"The other guy turned onto another street, Tubbs Mountain Road, at an extreme high rate of speed," Crowe said. "The officer was doing his best to get caught up with him, was nowhere close to him."

The officer said on the radio that the SUV's speed was in "triple digits," Crowe said.

The officer couldn't see where the SUV had turned off and slowed down to look on a road parallel to Tubbs Mountain Road, the chief said. When the officer couldn't find it there, he turned on Tubbs Mountain Road and came upon the crash scene, Crowe said.

Donald Ray Brown, 70, of 901 White Horse Road Extension, Travelers Rest, was pulling out of a side street when the SUV crashed into his car, Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans said.

He was pronounced dead at 6:48 p.m. at Greenville Memorial Trauma Center, he said.

The driver of the SUV was injured also but was well enough to talk with officers before being taken to Greenville Memorial Hospital, Crowe said.

Blood was drawn from him for a test to determine if he was under the influence of drugs or alcohol, the chief said.

The driver, a 50-year-old man, will face charges before he is released from the hospital, Crowe said. No warrants had been served by late Thursday.

Greenville County forensics and accident reconstruction teams are assisting with the investigation, Crowe said. The State Law Enforcement Division will analyze the blood sample but is not investigating the accident, he said.