ANNISTON, Alabama --Anniston Police are investigating a shooting which left a man dead after he aimed an apparent replica firearm at two police officers.



Police Chief Shane Denham said in an afternoon press conference that the incident happened at 9:33 a.m. in the area around Net Street and Twine Street in the Blue Mountain community. Police received a 911 call about a white male walking around the area with a firearm.

The first officer on the scene found the man and immediately called for backup, Denham said. He began issuing verbal commands to the man to drop the weapon, Denham said, and was later joined by a second officer who also told the man to release the firearm.

"It even got to the point of pleading with him," Denham said.

The man did not drop the weapon, but "assumed a shooting stance" and pointed the weapon at them, he said. Both officers then fired on the man, killing him.

Denham would not identify him, but The Anniston Star reported Calhoun County Assistant Coroner Shane Adrian identified him as Frank Charles Johnston, 53, of Anniston.

Denham said the weapon, which resembled a 1911 style-firearm, was actually an "Airsoft type firearm," which are made to fire pellets.

"They couldn't tell it wasn't a real weapon," Denham said. "They were in fear for their lives, and responded appropriately."

Paint marks the area along Net Street and Twine Street where an Anniston man was shot to death after he pointed a pellet gun at police Tuesday, April 22, 2014. (William Thornton / wthornton@al.com)

Curtis Hogeland, 23, lives across the street at the corner of Net and Twine. He had just moved in last Friday with friends. Hogeland said he was asleep this morning when he heard the first shot. Then a few moments later, four more shots followed.

"When I went out he was already on the ground," Hogeland said. "The policeman was walking away from the body. I could tell he didn't like the way it ended. Don't no one deserve to get shot and die, and now the policeman will have to deal with that for the rest of his life."

The two officers, who were not identified, are currently being questioned and tested according to departmental procedure. The Anniston Crime Lab, Investigations Division and the Jacksonville State University Center for Applied Forensics are part of the investigation.

Denham called the incident "a tragedy."

"My heart goes out to the officers," he said. "They will get counseling. It's not an easy thing to take a life. And it goes out to the family of the man who have lost a loved one."

Police may release more details later today as a result of the investigation, Denham said.