Three Modesto families are grieving after a 16-year-old driver crashed a stolen car following a brief police pursuit Thursday night, killing herself and the two 16-year-old boys who were riding with her.Watch report: 3 Modesto teens avoid traffic stop, die in crashPolice did not name the teenagers, but they were identified by friends and family as Mariah Boucher, Donovan King and Kameron Jackson.An officer pursued the stolen car, a Nissan Altima, for roughly one minute, but stopped following it after it drove at a high speed through a residential neighborhood, said Officer Scott Nelson, a Modesto police spokesman.Moments later, officers found the car crashed into a tree and on fire on the 2100 block of Miller Avenue, Nelson said. He said they used neighbors’ garden hoses to help put out the fire until firefighters arrived."A 16-year-old with a stolen vehicle is a property crime," Nelson said. "It’s a very good chance that those kids would have got a ticket, been released to their parents and gone home that night. And in a split second, they chose to make those decisions that changed their life not just for themselves but for their parents forever."Family and friends of the teenagers wept at the scene of the crash Friday. Some left candles and other items near the tree where the car crashed.Lorrie Rivera, Boucher’s grandmother, said she hopes teens will learn a lesson from the incident.She said her granddaughter was a great athlete, and a loving person who sometimes made bad choices.“I just don’t want anybody to think bad of her,” Rivera said. “She was a beautiful, beautiful girl. She loved everybody. She had the biggest heart.”

Three Modesto families are grieving after a 16-year-old driver crashed a stolen car following a brief police pursuit Thursday night, killing herself and the two 16-year-old boys who were riding with her.

Watch report: 3 Modesto teens avoid traffic stop, die in crash

Advertisement

Police did not name the teenagers, but they were identified by friends and family as Mariah Boucher, Donovan King and Kameron Jackson.

An officer pursued the stolen car, a Nissan Altima, for roughly one minute, but stopped following it after it drove at a high speed through a residential neighborhood, said Officer Scott Nelson, a Modesto police spokesman.



Moments later, officers found the car crashed into a tree and on fire on the 2100 block of Miller Avenue, Nelson said. He said they used neighbors’ garden hoses to help put out the fire until firefighters arrived.



"A 16-year-old with a stolen vehicle is a property crime," Nelson said. "It’s a very good chance that those kids would have got a ticket, been released to their parents and gone home that night. And in a split second, they chose to make those decisions that changed their life not just for themselves but for their parents forever."



Family and friends of the teenagers wept at the scene of the crash Friday. Some left candles and other items near the tree where the car crashed.



Lorrie Rivera, Boucher’s grandmother, said she hopes teens will learn a lesson from the incident.



She said her granddaughter was a great athlete, and a loving person who sometimes made bad choices.



“I just don’t want anybody to think bad of her,” Rivera said. “She was a beautiful, beautiful girl. She loved everybody. She had the biggest heart.”