A Naperville man shot and killed by police in January was legally drunk and furious with his wife for burning his chicken dinner when he fired a handgun at an officer responding to a 911 call from his home, a DuPage County coroner's jury was told Tuesday.

A police sergeant returned fire outside the house Jan. 23, killing David Kasmar, a 46-year-old computer technician on disability. Kasmar was shot once in the abdomen.

Advertisement

The coroner's jury declared the incident a homicide after a 40-minute inquest Tuesday, which provided a detailed look at the Naperville department's first fatal police shooting in more than 50 years. The decision is expected to clear the way for DuPage County prosecutors to declare the incident a justifiable killing.

Sgt. Steven Schindlbeck, briefly placed on administrative leave after the incident, returned to his job after being absolved by a departmental review of his use of deadly force.

Advertisement

Naperville Detective James Griffith testified the incident began when Kasmar's wife, Lisa, came home from work to find a chicken dinner she thought was undercooked sitting on a counter. She placed it back in the oven, Griffith said, leaving it there while she went to buy dog food.

She returned to the house in the 1500 block of Parkfield Court to find a smoky kitchen and an irate David Kasmar, the detective said.

"Her husband attacked her, pushed her against the refrigerator, threatened her with a knife and kicked her in the leg," Griffith said.

Lisa Kasmar fled to her bedroom with her sons, barricading herself behind furniture shoved against a locked door, Griffith said. She called 911 after her husband began kicking his way inside, he said.

When police arrived minutes later, Griffith said, David Kasmar was in his basement, where he stored handguns, several rifles and thousands of rounds of ammunition.

Officers tried to coax Kasmar upstairs, he said, but scattered in the living room when he came at them with a .357 Magnum handgun.

Kasmar ignored orders to drop the gun, walking out the front door of the house. It was there that he confronted Schindlbeck, an 11-year veteran, coming up the lawn, Griffith said.

Ignoring the sergeant's commands to drop his weapon, Griffith said Kasmar fired one round at the officer from about 10 feet away, missing him. A DuPage County sheriff's forensics specialist told the coroner's jury that Kasmar's shot was fired at about head level, passing through the wall of a nearby garage.

Advertisement

Schindlbeck responded with a single shot from his 9 mm service pistol, striking Kasmar several inches above his navel. "He saw [Kasmar] drop down and took cover," Griffith said.

Naperville Police Chief David Dial has said the actions of all the officers who responded to the disturbance were consistent with department policy. The forensics specialist who processed the case, Detective Sgt. Raymond Rodriguez of the sheriff's office, gave the coroner's jury a similar opinion. The physical evidence "indicates to me that we had a justifiable police shooting in this case," Rodriguez said.

Lisa Kasmar left the inquest Tuesday without commenting.

The proceedings shed little light on what caused Kasmar to react so violently, though senior deputy coroner John Eichler said tests showed Kasmar's blood-alcohol level was .181 at the time of his death at Edward Hospital less than an hour after the shooting.

The only conviction on Kasmar's record was for driving under the influence of alcohol in 2000, and police have indicated they had not been to the house for any prior domestic incidents. Family members told investigators there was only sporadic discord in the house, Griffith testified Tuesday.

Griffith said Kasmar had been on disability for about a year prior to the incident with a blood condition.