Sheriff's deputy 'gunned down his wife and then himself during domestic dispute' as their two young daughters listened just steps away

A Mississippi sheriff’s deputy and his wife have been found shot dead in their home in what investigators are calling a suspected murder-suicide.



On Wednesday night, a distress call came from Chris and Amber Smith's neighbor expressing concern for their well-being.



The Rankin County resident said on his 911 call placed with Ranking County Sheriff's Office that the Smiths' two young children came by his house and said that their father may have shot their mother during an argument.



Domestic drama: Sheriff's deputy Chris Smith, 34, and his 27-year-old wife, Amber, were found dead in an apparent murder-suicide after getting into a fight



Traumatic experience: The couple's two daughters, ages 4 and 9, were home at the time and ran to a neighbor for help

When deputies responded to the family's home at 126 Caledonian Boulevard at around 9.15pm, they discovered the parents dead from gunshot wounds in their master bedroom.



Chris Smith, 34, served as a deputy with Hinds County Sheriff's office since 2004, The Clarion-Ledger reported. According to Sheriff Tyrone Lewis, the married father of two was part of a special narcotics task force.



The sheriff added that his deputy was ‘astute’ and loved his job.

His wife, 27-year-old Amber Noelle Smith, was a graduate of Mississippi College. On Facebook, she described herself as a ‘stay at home mom.’

Rankin County Sheriff Brian Bailey said 10 days before the alleged murder-suicide, deputies responded to a non-violent domestic disturbance at the Smiths' residence.

Smith served as a deputy with Hinds County Sheriff's office since 2004, while his spouse was a stay-at-home mom caring for their two kids



Warning signs: Ten days before the tragedy, deputies were called to the Smiths' house after a non-violent disturbance

The parents leave behind two daughters, 9-year-old Makinzi Williams – Amber Smith’s child from a previous relationship - and 4-year-old Brecky Smith.



Both children are now staying with their grandmother.



Sheriff Bailey said deputies responding to the Smiths’ home Wednesday night were met at the door to the home by the couple's daughters.

