LOU MUMFORD

South Bend Tribune

NILES — “Someone is going to die tonight,’’ the armed robber told the manager at Long John Silver’s late on May 2, moments before running out the back door holding a handgun and a bag of money.

Berrien County Prosecutor Mike Sepic included the statement of the robber — Eddie Macon Jr., 39, of Elkhart, also known as Eddie Teta — in his ruling Monday that police officers who responded to the roughly 11:10 p.m. holdup were justified in their fatal shooting of Macon. The shooting occurred in the parking lot behind the restaurant at 1015 S. 11th St.

“Upon exiting, the suspect panned the firearm across the parking lot from officer to officer and began running northeast towards a residential area,’’ Sepic said in his report.

In all, police fired 15 rounds at Macon, striking him three times. The fatal wound that struck him in the head was fired by Niles City Police Officer Jenny Evans, Sepic said.

Another round fired by Michigan State Police Trooper Holly Tetro lodged in his right thigh, the prosecutor said. Macon was shot in the left thigh as well but because that shot was a “through and through wound,’’ Sepic said, the officer who fired it couldn’t be identified.

A third officer who fired at Macon was Geoff Guthrie, a member of the Michigan State Police Motor Carrier Division, the prosecutor said. Guthrie followed Macon out the back door after entering the public entrance at the front of the restaurant with Berrien County Sheriff’s Deputy Kevin Higgs and Niles city officer Jim Kidwell, Sepic said.

Kidwell confirmed a robbery was in progress in the rear of the restaurant where employees were present and radioed officers outside that Macon was heading toward the back door, Sepic said.

According to the prosecutor, police had been alerted to the holdup after the restaurant manager signaled her boyfriend through the drive-through window as she gathered money for Macon from the cash register. The restaurant had closed at 11 p.m., Sepic said, and the manager’s boyfriend was waiting for her in a car in the parking lot.

Sepic said the robbery began when an employee taking out trash was confronted by Macon, who was dressed in dark clothing and had his face covered below the eyes by a black bandanna. The employee later recognized the robber as Macon, the boyfriend of a former employee, Sepic said, adding other employees recognized him also.

The prosecutor said Macon led the employee back into the restaurant through the back door and forced the restaurant’s four employees into an office, putting the gun to the head of the manager as he demanded money. The cash was stuffed into a white Long John Silver’s bag about the same time police entered through the front door.

Initially believing the officers were customers, the manager went to tell them the restaurant was closed, Sepic said, and returned to tell Macon police were coming in an effort to safeguard the other employees. Macon then prepared to run out the back door, the prosecutor said.

Besides Guthrie, Evans and Tetro, Macon was confronted in the parking lot by Niles city police officer Shane Daniel and Michigan State Trooper Kelly Anderson, Sepic said. One of the officers spotted the handgun in Macon’s right hand as he ran out with the money, the prosecutor said.

Macon was armed with a .45 caliber semi-automatic pistol with a fully-loaded magazine and cocked hammer, Sepic said. A background check revealed Macon had prior convictions in Illinois for armed robbery in 1994 and carjacking in 2007.

It was clear, the prosecutor said, that police “were acting well within their duties’’ when they fired.

“Michigan law permits a police officer to use deadly force in defense of his or her own life, in defense of another or in pursuit of a fleeing felon,’’ he said.

LMumford@SBTinfo.com

574-876-2752