Two Madison police officers followed department policy on the use of deadly force when they fatally shot a man in an East Side apartment last month, the department said Tuesday.

Lt. Cory Nelson of the Madison Police Department’s professional standards and internal affairs unit issued a short statement clearing Sgt. David McClurg and Officer Carlin Becker in the death of Londrell Johnson on May 2.

Johnson, 33, refused to follow commands by officers to drop a knife that he had used to stab Robin Grossmann, 57, and her daughter Charity Grossmann, 34, to death in Robin Grossmann’s apartment on East Washington Avenue, authorities said.

On Monday, Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne cleared McClurg and Becker of any criminal liability in the incident after reviewing a report from the state Department of Justice’s Division of Criminal Investigation.

This was the first experience for the Madison Police Department with a new state law requiring outside agencies to lead investigations into officer-involved deaths.

Madison Police Chief Mike Koval said he was satisfied with the way the process played out.

“All things considered,” Koval said, “I was quite pleased at how well two agencies were able to coalesce and work to complement the legislative intent, which is to have an agency outside of your realm or domain of control handle all the primary investigative steps.”

Koval conceded there may have been some resistance to surrendering authority to an outside agency, but he’s confident that it will help build public trust in the outcome of such investigations.

“I do think that takes a moment or two to adjust to,” Koval said. “But at the end of the day, there’s a reason they call us law enforcement officers, and we get it. That’s the law, and we have to make every good-faith effort to make it a win-win proposition, working with that new agency that has been entrusted with oversight.

“As confident and comfortable as I am with the integrity of the way we investigated our own incidents, I’m also sensitive to the fact that there are those in the community who are always going to wonder about whether that is, in fact, going to be a completely unadulterated and objective investigation. So this, I hope, would certainly take all of that guesswork and uncertainty right out of the mix.”

McClurg and Becker will remain on leave but will begin to transition back to their regular duties as they are ready.

Koval said that process can be a difficult one, even when the officers are cleared of wrongdoing.

“I would say these officers did everything their training had dictated to them,” Koval said. “Their actions, in my opinion, were above reproach and, in fact, heroic.

“Be that as it may, this is a forever life-altering event in the professional life of a police officer, and they will always have to grapple with those emotions and those demons. ... This is something they’re going to have to cope with as humans forever.”

DCI is completing its investigation of another incident in which two Madison officers shot and killed 26-year-old Ashley DiPiazza on the Far East Side. Koval said he did not know when the results of that probe will be released.