SHARE

By

Town of Primrose — The man who was shot and killed after stabbing two Dane County sheriff's deputies had schizophrenia and had numerous contacts with officers in the past, the sheriff said Friday.

Sheriff Dave Mahoney said the man was wearing a bullet-resistant vest when he attacked the deputies Thursday at a town of Primrose home where he was living with his mother and stepfather.

Officers fired bean bags and then used stun guns, pepper spray and batons to try to apprehend the man before a third officer, Deputy James Kelley, shot him, the Wisconsin State Journal reported.

The man was not identified. But Mahoney said the man had "long-standing schizophrenia and was an individual we had interacted with for many years."

The deputies responded to a residence north of New Glarus on Thursday about 12:30 p.m. and found an elderly couple with significant injuries suffered in an apparent beating. Mahoney said while the deputies were in the home they were attacked and stabbed by the son of the injured couple.

Lt. Brian Hayes and Deputy Roger Finch were on an open spiral staircase when they were stabbed in the legs with a knife, the sheriff said. Kelley then shot the man.

Finch was released from UW Hospital on Friday. Hayes will remain hospitalized for a few more days, Mahoney said.

Mahoney said he is confident that his officers followed proper procedure.

"It was only after two deputies received very significant injuries and the fight continued that they feared for their safety and had to use deadly force," Mahoney said.

Kelley and the other five deputies involved are on standard administrative leave, the sheriff's office said.

The sheriff said the deputies responded to a call from the driver of a recycling truck who was going through the area and found the mother "who had been brutally beaten" and the stepfather, who had suffered serious head injuries.

The homeowners were taken by ambulance to a Madison hospital. Their conditions haven't been released, but Mahoney said they were able to speak with investigators.

Investigators from the city of Madison and Sun Prairie will lead the investigation into the shooting, with help from officers from Fitchburg and UW Police as well as the sheriff's office, Mahoney said.

A new state law requires the fatal shooting to be investigated by an outside agency. It's the second officer-involved fatal shooting in Wisconsin since the law took effect. On Wednesday, a Milwaukee police officer shot and killed a schizophrenic man after a struggle in a popular downtown park.