JACKSONVILLE, Fla. – An officer shot and killed a man who had just cut him with a knife in a home in a rural area of Northwest Jacksonville early Friday afternoon, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. Another person stabbed in that home is in critical condition, but they are expected to live.

Undersheriff Dwain Senterfitt held a news conference about the incident Saturday morning. He said three officers responded to a call about a stabbing on Doe Lane, north of Garden Street, when the shooting occurred about 1:30 p.m.

"(The suspect) jumped off the couch and stabbed the first officer," Senterfitt said. He said that officer, Steven Brown, who sustained a major cut on his arm, was able to fire at the suspect with his rifle and then handgun. Brown was transported and released from the hospital.

The knife-wielding man, identified as 29-year-old Brandon Peters (pictured below), died at the scene. Officer Brown -- a 16-year veteran of the Sheriff's Office -- received medical treatment and was taken to a hospital by car in stable condition.

Brandon Peters

The original victim, who sustained several stab wounds from the suspect, has critical injuries, Senterfitt said. Investigators say 20-year-old Wayne Coyle was the victim of the stabbing.

UNCUT: Undersheriff Senterfitt's briefing

Peters' stepfather, Glen Moore, who raised him since he was 7 years old, said this type of behavior was uncharacteristic of him.

"He's never been in trouble, never been arrested, nothing violent," Moore said. "It's just not him. So I don't know what's going on."

Moore said his stepson has a son who's 3 or 4 years old.

"He's a good kid. I don't know what he was thinking. I don't know," Moore added. "I can't even think of what was going on, why he would even do such a thing. He's just not that type of person. He's never had any violence. He don't have a record or anything. He's trying to get his life straightened out. He's not on drugs or nothing."

Moore said he can't understand why his stepson was killed by the officer.

"If he had a knife, I don't understand why they couldn't taze him or something, why they had to shooting. I don't know," Moore said. "You know, there's a lot of police violence, and it seems like they shoot to kill. Jacksonville police shoot to kill when they shoot somebody. I don't agree with their methods. I know they got to think safety first, but what about his safety. It seems like they could've done something different."

"Everyone's upset with the way officers went about situation. We believe they took it too far," said Peters' sister, August Stone.

This is the second officer injured in the line of duty in 10 days, and shots were fired at another officer in a third incident.

"This is a very dangerous job. This is what these men and women do. They come out here every day and do this," Senterfitt said.

At Saturday's news conference Senterfitt told Channel 4 new details about the investigation.

"The suspect was shot twice in the shoulder and once in the head," said Senterfitt.

Officers say an older man came to the door of the home and Peters jumped in with a knife and charged at Officer Brown.

"There was another victim stabbed. That's what started this whole call," Undersheriff Dwain Senterfitt told Channel 4.

The officers had a plan as to who was going to provide lethal cover and non-lethal cover.

Investigators say the officers handled the situation correctly.



JSO investigators say murders are up so far this year in Jacksonville. They say the department is moving resources. They say there are 147 fewer officers today and fewer community officers.