Richard Ramnarine and Adiola Ramnarine forgave the man who killed their daughter Rebecca. (Kevin C. Downs/for New York Daily News)

Inspired by his 9-year-old daughter, a courageous father found the strength to forgive the man who killed her — and even invited the coward to reach out when he gets out of prison.

"It took some time for me to actually get to this place," said Richard Ramnarine, father of little Rebecca, who was mowed down in Brooklyn just over a year ago.

Advertisement

"Knowing who my daughter was, she would not want us to hold him accountable," Ramnarine, 40, said. "She would forgive him."

The good-as-gold dad uttered the emotional words just outside the courtroom where Kenneth Palache was sentenced to four to 12 years in prison Thursday. The sentence followed a plea deal last month which allowed the 63-year-old Long Island man to cop to manslaughter and two assault charges.

Advertisement

Rebecca Ramnarine, 9, was killed in the Canarsie crash.

"I'd like to apologize to the people who are hurting," Palache said, leaning on a cane his lawyer said he's needed since the crash. "I mean that from the bottom of my heart."

Palache ran a red light at Foster Ave. and E. 87th St. in Canarsie around 5 p.m. on May 4, 2014. He collided with an SUV carrying a family of five, including three children. No one was seriously hurt. Palache, who was driving with a suspended license, fled the scene in his Honda Odyssey only to be pulled over by cops near a bus stop about a mile away.

Police said it looked like Palache was going to get out of his vehicle when he opened the door, shut it and sped off again, topping 50 mph over the span of just two blocks. "He panicked, thinking he was going to jail," his lawyer, Darren Fields, said Thursday.

The May 4, 2014 car crash happened on Remsen Ave. and Ave. N. (Ken Murray/NEW YORK DAILY NEWS)

Palache blew through a stop sign at Remsen Ave. and Avenue N and slammed into the rear of the 2013 Hyundai Elantra. Rebecca was in the back of that vehicle. The adorable fourth-grader from St. Albans, Queens, was rushed to Brookdale University Hospital but could not be saved. The SUV's five passengers, who were all coming from church, survived.

Palache's lawyer said his client, who had no prior criminal record, was distraught the day of the crash over relationship problems and his daughter's twin miscarriages. "He can't really explain his actions, but he takes full responsibility," Fields said.

Rebecca's parents were in another car about two minutes behind the van she was riding in. They came upon the wreck and saw their dying daughter being taken out of the crumpled vehicle.

Police escort Kenneth Palache, 62 , out of the 69th Precinct May 5, 2014 after he was charged with criminally negligent homicide.

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

They later discovered a final iPad selfie that a beaming Rebecca took outside Restoration Temple Assembly of God just before the crash.

Ramnarine said his son and two other daughters have been suffering since Rebecca's death.

Advertisement

"They are struggling," he said. "She was the glue in our family."

Rebecca took this selfie hours before the deadly crash. (Anthony DelMundo/New York Daily News)

But that didn't stop him from telling Fields after the sentencing that his client was welcome to reach out to the grieving family when he gets out of prison.

"We had to forgive him as part of our healing process," Ramnarine explained. "She never liked to see people suffer, people hurt," he said of his daughter, who loved to dance and wanted to be a pediatrician.

"What is justice at the end of the day? No amount of punishment would be appropriate for the pain we're feeling."

bpaddock@nydailynews.com