Therese Apel

The Clarion-Ledger

As referee and Hinds County Deputy Joshua Adams sits behind bars, charged with murder in the death of basketball coach Justin Griffin, questions continue to arise about the situation that led up to the fight that claimed Griffin's life.

First is why Adams was charged with murder when a security film of the fight shows Adams taking at least three punches from Griffin before throwing the one that ended the fight. In addition, Adams was not charged with aggravated assault or anything else as Griffin lay in the hospital for more than 24 hours following the fight. He was not charged until Monday evening, at which point Jackson police said they had enough evidence to charge him with murder.

But even after repeated requests by phone and email, JPD officials and the Hinds County DA's office has not answered as to what the intent would be for Adams to purposely kill Griffin.

In general, a murder charge has to include some kind of intent to kill another person, Madison/Rankin County District Attorney Michael Guest said.

"For first degree murder, which is what you're most commonly going to see, you have to have deliberate design, there has to be intent to affect the death of another," Guest said.

Officials have not elaborated on why or how Joshua Adams allegedly intended to kill Griffin in the moments leading up to that one punch. District Attorney Robert Shuler Smith and Jackson Police Department Assistant Chief Lee Vance have not responded to calls and emails seeking comment.

Sometimes authorities will press harsher charges in hopes of either a plea bargain or a lesser conviction, said Ole Miss Legal Studies Chair Eric Lambert.

"Sometimes you have to understand in criminal justice, you do what's called overcharge, and you do that to hope to get the person to plea bargain," said Lambert. "The prosecutor can also ask the judge to say that the jury can consider a lesser charge. If you think that the jury is not going to completely agree with you, you charge with murder hoping you'll get manslaughter."

As details start to come out about the events of the morning leading up to the fight, those questions become even more apparent.

Adams' wife, Chandra Adams, said her husband told her the day of the game, that Justin Griffin and fellow coach Julian Pickett had been aggressive during their 8 a.m. game, and that he had given Griffin a technical foul for the use of a curseword. Griffin and Pickett's team went on to win the game, and then they went outside.

During the 9 a.m. game, Griffin's team came back inside without their coaches. Shortly after that, Griffin and Pickett came back and sat in the crowd at Adams' court. Chandra Adams said her husband told her Griffin had continued to heckle him as the game went on. When Adams came to the sidelines to inbound the ball, allegedly Griffin asked him, "Are you going to f--- up this game like you did the last one?"

"Joshua turned around and said, 'Young man, we're not going to have that in here,'" Chandra Adams said, adding that she believes there was a woman who advised Griffin that Adams was a law enforcement officer at that time.

At another point, Chandra Adams said, Griffin threatened to be outside waiting on Joshua Adams after the game.

Marcus Monger, who was refereeing on the next court, said Adams reported the behavior to the deputy on duty, which is policy. He said referees are to report those situations to security, and they must point out the person who is antagonizing them.

Chandra Adams said once the 9 a.m. game was over, Joshua Adams found a deputy who was working security at the game.

"He said to him, 'I'm Josh Adams, I'm a deputy sheriff too. I have a situation and I need your help. Would you step outside with me?'" Chandra Adams said.

Monger said Adams took his referee shirt off at the door because it's also policy that they don't wear their referee shirts outside the building.

As the two men made their way out the door, Chandra Adams said Griffin came from behind them through the door and Joshua Adams pointed him out to the deputy. At that point, Griffin allegedly threatened Adams again, at which point the other deputy advised him he was talking to a law enforcement officer. When Griffin allegedly continued to be combative, the deputy went to detain him, Chandra Adams said.

"He assisted the other officer in detaining Mr. Griffin, and when they got him up against the car, my husband announced himself again and said, 'I'm an officer, calm down, I just want to talk to you,'" Chandra Adams said.

That's when Chandra Adams says Pickett became involved again, allegedly grabbing Joshua Adams' arm and pulling him away. During that time, Griffin broke loose. When he did, Adams moved toward him.

The security footage picks up at that point, Chandra Adams said.

The footage shows Griffin throwing a punch to Adams' face as Adams blocks it with his left hand. Griffin throws at least two more punches to Adams' face before Adams hits him once, ending the fight.

As soon as Monger heard there was a fight, he went outside too.

"By the time I got out there, it was over with. Josh was right by the guy. I had to pull Josh from over there because the crowd was hostile," Monger said, adding that at no time was Adams concerned about himself.

"I think if he was afraid for what was happening for him, he wouldn't have been by Justin's side," Monger said. "He was right by Justin until we made him move."

Monger disputes the story that is being circulated by friends of Griffin's that Adams was the aggressor in the fight. He said he and some others who were there that day are not taking sides in the fight, but they want the truth to be told.

"The story that's being told is one sided, and everyone's believing it because nobody was speaking out for Josh. We're not on his side or against him or anything, but it's about the truth. The truth should be told," Monger said. "I hate that Justin is dead, but Josh's name is ruined, his reputation has been ruined, so he and his family have also taken quite a loss."

When asked for comment last week, Pickett said he would be unable to comment on the situation without his attorney. A spokesperson for the Griffin family said they didn't want to speak with the media, as Justin Griffin's funeral was Monday.

The Hinds County Sheriff's Department has said that they are conducting an internal investigation into the incident to be certain no policies or procedures were broken by either deputy, and that any testimony given by the officer working security is part of that investigation.

Monger said he's refereed with Adams for about four years. He said during that time he's never seen Adams react to any kind of badgering.

"If it's unsporting behavior, we give them a technical foul and move forward. That's what Josh did. They moved forward, and Justin's team went on to win the game," he said. "I've seen Josh in plenty of games where coaches are on us, and he's handled himself well, and I haven't seen him have an altercation with a coach, period, since I've refereed with him."

The fight could have been avoided, Monger said, if someone had just been willing to be a voice of reason.

"Where were Justin's friends to stop the situation from happening?" he said. "Where were they to try to calm Justin down, when all this was going on?"

Chandra Adams said she has been praying constantly for her husband, of course, but also for Griffin's family. She said she feels a particular burden for Griffin's mother, Cynthia Griffin. As a mother of boys, she said, she wants Cynthia Griffin to know how heartbroken she and her family are about the whole incident.

"She may not ever want to talk to me. I want her to know what happened, so she knows what led up to the physical altercation. I want an opportunity to meet her and embrace her and cry with her," she said. "I want her to know how heartbroken we are over this accident, and that it was just an accident. I want her to feel the love and sincerity I have for her."

To contact Therese Apel, email tapel@gannett.com or call (601) 405-9807. Follow @TRex21 on Twitter.