IONIA COUNTY, MI -- Ionia County Prosecutor Ronald Schafer said police were justified in shooting and killing a man who led officers on a chase, then shot at police in a field.

Ionia County sheriff's Sgt. Joseph White and Trooper Aaron McCormick, Sgt. Aaron Sweeney and Sgt. Scott Ziesman of Michigan State Police were cleared in the May 4 shooting.

Steven Goble, 31, of Lake Odessa, led police on a high-speed chase through two counties after allegedly assaulting his wife. During the assault, he told his wife jail was "not an option."

While leading police into an Orleans Township field, Goble called his employer and said he was going to commit suicide by cop, the man told emergency dispatchers.

Goble refused to follow officers' orders in the field at the corner of Hubbell and Hoppough roads just west of M-66. He yelled "shoot me" while he held a shotgun and walked toward a perimeter formed by officers.

He said, "I know you want to go home to your families and the only to do that is to shoot me." When told to drop his gun, Goble said that was "not an option," police said.

Goble yelled for police to shoot him or he would shoot them. He fired one round toward the officers, striking a patrol car.

McCormick returned fire. Goble wasn't hit and racked his pump to load his shotgun. He acted in an "antagonistic manner," continuing to approach police with his gun in his hand, Schafer said.

Goble refused to follow White's commands to drop the gun and proceeded to approach. He was subsequently shot once by White.

Police said Goble laid on his back, holding his shotgun across his body. Officers commanded him to let go of the gun so they could help him, and Goble replied, "I don't want help."

Goble sat up and laughed for several seconds, holding his shotgun, police said. With one hand on the trigger and the other on the forearm grip, he began to swivel the barrel toward the line of officers.

Ziesman, Sweeney and McCormick fired, killing Goble. Ziesman and Sweeney fired one round each, and McCormick fired two. An autopsy showed Goble received three gunshot wounds in the arm, chest and face.

"The officers would have been justified in using deadly force before that moment," Schafer wrote. "Steven Goble had already led officers on a lengthy dangerous chase, fired at a trooper's car, and refused commands to drop his weapon after fleeing his vehicle."

Police officers may use deadly force in self-defense when they reasonably believe they are in imminent danger of serious injury or death, Schafer wrote. Officers have the duty to protect the community and for that reason, they may use deadly force when reasonably necessary to defend the life of another or when in pursuit of a fleeing felon.

Because of their duty to protect the public, police officers are not required to retreat in the face of the display of force.

The officers' only recourse was the use of deadly force, Schafer said.

"Steven Goble was afforded every opportunity possible on May 4, 2014, to surrender, however, he took his life into his own hands," Schafer said. "The situation was suicide-by-cop forced upon the responding officers by an individual with a clear and stated purpose of ending his life."

Angie Jackson covers public safety and breaking news for MLive/The Grand Rapids Press. Email her at ajackso3@mlive.com, and follow her on Twitter.