On Tuesday, May 6, 2014, Houston Police Officer M. Miller was dispatched to a citizen holding a suspect call at 5901 Selinsky Road, apartment 183.

When she arrived at the location she found the reportee, Shanequa Minor restraining Branndon Jefferson. It was later learned that Jefferson, who Minor described as the father of her children, arrived at Minors apartment around 9:00 p.m. the previous night. She said that he came and went several times during the night. When he came back to stay, he told her that he had smoked some sherm, or a marijuana cigarette dipped in PCP. Minor said that he seemed agitated and she told him to try and relax. He told her that he had also taken a molly.

Minor said that she got him glass of milk hoping it would help him relax. She said that despite his apparent condition, which was making her nervous, she lay down in her bed. She said that soon after she lay down, Jefferson yelled something unintelligible and started going crazy. He ran out of the room to the front door and was trying to get out.

Minor said that she restrained him to keep him from running out. She said that he yelled dont let them touch me! She said that when he was unable to go out the front door, he ran straight into an exterior wall of the living room in what she thought was an attempt to escape the apartment. He ran into the wall with such force that he put a large hole in the sheetrock.

Minor said that she went over to him trying to calm him down. She said that he pulled away from her and ran head first into another wall of the apartment, again putting a hole in the sheetrock. From there he went to the window of the second story unit and pushed against it in an apparent attempt to flee the apartment. The large multi-pane window bulged out, but did not break. She said that he ended up on floor, and she was over him trying to calm him down. She said that he got up and ran back into the bedroom.

He ran into the rear exterior wall in another futile attempt to get out of the apartment. Again he struck the sheetrock with such force, he damaged the sheetrock. Minor said that Jefferson then went back into the living room and again tried to leave out the front door. Due to his condition, she said that she did not want to let him out.

She told him that if he didnt calm down, she would have to call the police. He ended up on the floor of the apartment again, so she got on top of him to hold him down. He continued to struggle so she called 911. She told the call taker that Jefferson had admitted to taking drugs and was tearing up her apartment. She said that she stayed on top of Jefferson until the police arrived, but had to get off of him to answer the door. Jefferson was lying on the floor of the apartment on his back. When he saw Officer Miller, he became agitated, and Minor advised Officer Miller to wait at the door.

Minor said that she would be able to restrain Jefferson and keep him calm until additional units could arrive. Minor straddled Jefferson who was still lying on his back on the floor of the apartment. Officer Miller waited at the front door where she could monitor the situation without further agitating Jefferson. She waited at the door for a short while until Sergeant J. A. Shilling arrived at the scene. Officer Miller advised Sergeant Shilling that Jefferson appeared to be on some type of narcotic and was agitated. Sergeant Shilling determined that at minimum Jefferson would need to be detained in order to obtain an Emergency Mental Health Warrant and/or to obtain medical help for him. When Jefferson saw Sergeant Shilling he again became agitated.

Sergeant Shilling and Officer Miller were able to speak to Jefferson to keep him calm as they waited for additional back-up. Jefferson told them that he didnt want to go to jail, and they assured him that they were there to help him and that he would be going to the hospital and not to jail. They told Jefferson to roll onto his stomach and place his hands behind his back, but he refused to comply. Sergeant Shilling reached for and grabbed Jefferson left wrist in an attempt to gain compliance, but Jefferson pulled away.

Jefferson was rambling incoherently and making comments of not wanting to go to jail. When Officers C. Bautista and R. Arriaga arrived, they engaged Mr. Jefferson in an attempt to get him restrained. He was still lying on his back and refusing to comply with the verbal commands he was receiving to lie on his stomach and place his hands behind his back. The officers had to turn Jefferson over onto his stomach.

Jefferson tensed up and started yelling as he was rolled over. He started kicking his legs and once on his stomach attempted to get up by pushing up on the floor. The officers were able to hold him down and then he pulled his hands under his body, resisting their efforts. With Officer Miller restraining Jeffersons legs, Sergeant Shilling and Officer Arriaga at his left arm and Officer Batista at his right arm they were able to successfully handcuff him behind his back. Once handcuffed, Sergeant Shilling requested Houston Fire Department paramedics to assess Jefferson. Due to his continuing combative demeanor, Sergeant Shilling determined that it would be too dangerous to try and remove Jefferson from the upstairs apartment simply handcuffed, so he asked for an interlocking device to restrain his legs.

Officer Miller had one in her vehicle, so she went out to retrieve it. Jefferson continued to struggle with the officers, yelling the entire time. When Officer Miller returned with the interlocking device, and attempted to apply them, Jefferson stiffened his body to resist their efforts. With great difficulty, the restraint was placed onto Jeffersons legs and connected to the handcuffs. Sergeant Shilling had Jefferson immediately rolled onto his side and then checked for the proper distance of 12 inches from feet to hands using his flashlight - which he knew to be 13 inches in length. During the entire restraining process, Jefferson had been resisting all efforts and yelling at the officers. However, within seconds of being rolled onto his side, Jefferson went limp and became unresponsive.

Officer Miller performed a sternal rub with her knuckles to which Jefferson did not respond. Unsure if Jefferson was in actual medical distress or faking unconsciousness, Sergeant Shilling had the officers remove the leg restraints, but left the hand cuffs in place. The officers quickly assessed Jefferson and it was determined that he was breathing and had a pulse. Sergeant Shilling advised dispatch of the situation and that paramedics were now needed urgently. Officer Arriaga performed a second, more aggressive sternal rub with the end of his flashlight, to which Jefferson still did not respond. The officers closely monitored Jeffersons condition and within minutes it deteriorated. When it appeared that he stopped breathing and lost his pulse, Sergeant Shilling had the handcuffs removed and they started chest compressions. Officers Miller, Arriaga, Batista and Gunter (who had arrived after Jefferson had lost vitals) all participated in the life saving effort.

They each performed two rounds of chest compression, rotating so as not to tire out. They continued chest compressions until Houston Fire Department Ambulance 55 paramedics arrived and took over. The Houston Fire Department paramedics worked on Jefferson for several minutes before loading him and transporting him to Ben Taub Hospital. At the hospital he was pronounced dead at 5:59 AM.

At the time of this summary, an autopsy had not been performed, so the exact cause of death was not known. It is also not known when exactly Mr. Jefferson died, but he was officially pronounced dead by doctors at Ben Taub Hospital at the above listed time.