FRANKLIN -- A Robertson County grand jury on Tuesday declined to indict former Hearne officer Stephen Stem for the shooting death of 93-year-old Pearlie Golden.

It was the second time for Stem, 29, to be cleared of any criminal wrongdoing for killing someone while on duty.

In April 2013, a different Robertson County grand jury no billed the former officer -- who was terminated in May following Golden's death -- after he'd shot and killed 28-year-old Tederalle Lakeith Satchell.

Golden and Satchell, both black, were shot by the white officer after refusing to put their guns down despite repeated commands from Stem, according to officials.

Based on details that have been released in Golden's case, police received a call at about 6:30 on May 7 from Golden's nephew, Roy Jones, who reported his aunt was holding a gun.

Robertson County District Attorney Coty Siegert said Stem and another officer arrived to the 1400 block of Pin Oak Street and found Golden carrying a .38 revolver. She was told six times -- twice by Jones and four times by Stem -- to put the weapon down.

When she refused and pointed the gun at Stem, the officer fired four times, striking her twice, Siegert said.

Siegert declined to provide comments after the grand jury was dismissed, but wrote on the Robertson County District Attorney's Office Facebook page that "the Grand Jurors took their oaths very seriously and considered every aspect of this tragedy before reaching a determination based on the actual evidence."

Stem was at the courthouse Tuesday, but didn't testify during the grand jury presentation, said his attorney, Robert McCabe of Georgetown.

McCabe said Stem "stands behind his actions, which likely saved both himself and Jones from serious, imminent harm."

Now that the grand jury proceedings are over, McCabe said Stem plans to pursue job opportunities with police departments in counties outside of Robertson County.

Prior to going to work for Hearne police in July 2012, Stem spent nearly three years with the Bryan Police Department before spending about a year with the Lott Police Department.

During his time in Bryan, Stem was placed on a 90-day voluntary agreed suspension in July 2011 following an incident in which Stem pointed a gun at an innocent bystander and a suspect while another officer was in his field of fire, according to a departmental memo from Chief of Police Eric Buske.

In 2010, he received a one-day suspension for failing to complete a report about an alleged indecency with child incident before going on vacation, based on the records.

"I pity any police department that hires [Stem] with his type of track record," said Dawn Jefferson, when reached by phone Tuesday evening.

Jefferson, a 49-year-old black Hearne native said she found out about the grand jury's decision not to indict Stem through a client.

"I think this is a slap in the face to this community," said Jefferson, who's in the insurance business and attended many of the resident meetings organized in response to Golden's death.

She later added, "We've been patient enough waiting for the legal system to hopefully do justice in this situation and, once again, it has failed this community."

Jefferson said she wants to see city officials hire police officers who can be trusted by the people they're paid to protect and believes the department should be working "to rebuild a relationship" with the community.

"As police officers, you've got to have some people skills," she said. "We are just people and you have to be able to communicate with us in a sensible way."