Advertisement Family of man shot by Salinas police: They killed Osman like a dog Share Copy Link Copy

On Thursday, the family of a man who was shot to death by two Salinas police officers on May 9 outside Mi Pueblo Food Center said it is furious with police for using lethal force and wants answers.The family claims 26-year-old Osman Hernandez was shot in the head while he was lying on the ground, and said it is "furious with the Salinas Police Department’s statement that the shooting of Osman was justified."A family spokesperson said, "They killed Osman like a dog as he lay on the ground. Why are we to trust them investigating themselves? Why does it take so many bullets to the head to subdue a man who is already lying on the ground? Osman’s life had value. We want the truth.”A well-known civil rights lawyer, Christopher Dolan of the Dolan Law Firm in San Francisco, was hired by the family to seek an unbiased review of the shooting and possibly file a lawsuit.Dolan has won high profile legal battles over suspected police brutality before.“Based upon eyewitness reports, this appears to be an excessive use of force resulting in a senseless killing," Dolan said. "This is what is commonly referred to as a homicide. The police state that they killed Mr. Hernandez for having a knife, not for actually threatening them with harm. Mr. Hernandez didn’t even have a weapon in his hand when he was gunned down. The police, given the ultimate power by us, the citizens, owe each of us a duty to use only the minimum amount of force necessary. Officers are trained how to disarm a suspect and it’s not by shooting them in the head over and over! This family deserves real answers so we will have private investigators speak with the witnesses, have Osman’s body transferred to a private pathologist for analysis of the bullet trajectories, gunshot residue, and we will retain nationally renowned use of force experts to analyze the officers’ conduct. It’s in times like these when the police have killed someone that we need to be most vigilant as to protect ourselves from those entrusted to protect us.”No decision has been made yet whether the family will file a lawsuit because facts and circumstances surrounding Hernandez's death are still being gathered, Dolan said.The family's and lawyer's announcement was made less than an hour after the Salinas police chief told reporters his veteran officers did nothing wrong.Salinas Police Chief Kelly McMillin held a press conference in the City Hall Rotunda to address concern from the public about a May 9 incident, when two Salinas police officers fatally shot a fieldworker who was running around a shopping center with a large knife he used to cut lettuce.McMillin said his department's investigation found that the veteran officers did nothing wrong; they felt their lives were in danger."The officers knew they were a mere slash away from being injured or killed," McMillin said. "I am very proud of these officers for their quick thinking. They had to make decisions under tremendous pressure."KSBW obtained surveillance video showing Hernandez spinning his body and wildly swinging his knife in the air. VIDEO: Watch it herePolice Cmdr. Vincent Maiorana said the entire incident unfolded in a few minutes."The time between when the first officer arrived, and Mr. Hernandez was shot, was just a few minutes in total," Maiorana said.Multiple 911 callers told emergency dispatchers that Hernandez was chasing random people around a crowded shopping center with a knife. Business owners barricaded themselves inside their shops.The fieldworker had walked to the shopping center from a nearby bar, where he had drunk alcohol heavily for at least two hours and got into a bar brawl, Maiorana said.The first officer on the scene saw Hernandez was acting bizarrely. Hernandez only spoke Spanish, but the officer was bilingual so he quickly figured out that he needed to give police commands in Spanish, Maiorana said.However, "He would not follow any directions whatsoever," Maiorana said. "The shopping center was crowded, people were walking everywhere and businesses were open."The most alarming moment happened when Hernandez blew a kiss to the officer who was trying to handcuff him, said in Spanish, "Please forgive me," and quickly grabbed his knife, Maiorana said. It was at that moment that police opened fire.As the police chief fielded questions from reporters Thursday, there were two questions he declined to answer: "How many shots were fired?" and "What type of guns did police use?"Hernandez had no criminal history in Salinas. He was the victim of a crime in August 2013 when he was attacked by four men and stabbed. Hernandez was born in El Salvador and had come to Salinas looking for work in the fields.McMillin said his police department's heart goes out to Hernandez's family."I want to make sure people understand that taking a human life is the most serious incident a police department can investigate. We understand that there is a lot of emotion and speculation behind this case," the police chief said. "Real violence is horrific, it's a terrible thing to see."