NORTH SIOUX CITY | A 20-year-old shooting victim and her family likely saved the life of a woman they stopped to help in North Sioux City on Saturday, officials said.

Shelby Olson, of Jefferson, S.D., her mother and her father were riding in a car when they were flagged down by a woman whose husband had threatened to shoot her during a confrontation near North Shore Drive and Military Road, police said.

The woman's husband, Eric Johnson, 38, of Elk Point, S.D., was armed with a 9 mm handgun.

"Without a doubt they saved this girl's life," said Union County Sheriff Dan Limoges.

When Shelby Olson's father got out of the car to help the frightened woman, Johnson turned the gun on him, Limoges said.

The gun didn't go off, and Olson's father told his wife and daughter to drive off with Johnson's wife, who had gotten into their car, Limoges said.

Police say Johnson chased them south on Highway 105 to River Drive, the main thoroughfare in North Sioux City.

The two vehicles were going 80 to 100 mph when they drove past a North Sioux City police sergeant on River Drive, said North Sioux City police Chief Jody Frye.

The chase continued on River Drive to northbound I-29.

"It was at that point they could hear the shots being fired," Frye said.

Police say Johnson fired the 9 mm handgun five times at the Olson family's car, hitting it three times. One of the rounds hit Shelby Olson in the back.

The Olson family took the North Shore Drive exit off I-29, a few hundred yards from where the chase started. A North Sioux City police officer stopped to help them.

Johnson continued north on I-29, turned around and followed the interstate south into Iowa. Several police agencies chased him through Iowa into Nebraska. Investigators say he shot himself to death near Macy, Neb.

Shelby Olson was treated in the emergency room and released from Mercy Medical Center -- Sioux City. Her mother declined to be interviewed Monday afternoon.

Johnson's wife could not be reached for comment.

The Nebraska State Patrol will ask for a grand jury to investigate the circumstances of Johnson's death.

Nebraska law requires a grand jury investigate the deaths of those who die in police custody or in the process of being arrested.