Dasha Davis, right, the daughter of Gary Smith, who was killed by Chicago police in 2014, breaks down when asked to talk about her father during a news conference alongside her lawyer Irene Dymkar after a jury awarded her more than $5 million on March 22, 2019. (Abel Uribe/Chicago Tribune)

A Cook County jury has awarded nearly $5.1 million to the family of an African-American man fatally shot by a white Chicago police officer nearly five years ago on the West Side.

The lawsuit largely hinged on whether Gary Smith, 37, was carrying a gun when he was shot by Officer Arkadiusz Pachnik, then a tactical officer assigned to the Austin District.

Advertisement

Police contended Smith had a gun, but some eyewitnesses, including his girlfriend, said he was not armed and actually had his hands up when Pachnik shot him multiple times, according to the family’s lawyers and their court filings.

They also alleged that police had planted a Glock semi-automatic firearm at the scene.

Advertisement

Smith’s killing in May 2014 occurred five months before black teen Laquan McDonald was shot 16 times by white police Officer Jason Van Dyke — a case that put the Police Department under unprecedented scrutiny for the way it investigates shootings by its officers.

An official statement on Smith’s shooting that morning came from a spokesman for the Chicago Fraternal Order of Police — a practice that was abandoned after the court-ordered release of police dashboard camera video of McDonald’s shooting in late 2015 roiled the city.

Gary Smith, shot and killed in 2014 by a Chicago police officer. (Family photo)

“How many verdicts like this does the city of Chicago have to hear before they actually do something?” Torreya Hamilton, one of the family’s lawyers, said at an afternoon news conference at her Loop law office. “There’s no consequences. The message is just not being heard.”

After about four weeks of evidence, jurors returned the verdict Thursday night in the Daley Center courtroom of Associate Judge Thomas More Donnelly, finding in the family’s favor and awarding $5.097 million in damages, court records show.

The jury divided the award in this way: $2 million for the “past and future loss” of Smith’s daughter, Dasha Davis, and son, Ramar Brown; $2 million for their “grief and sorrow”; $1 million for Smith’s “physical and emotional pain and suffering”; and $97,193 for medical and funeral expenses.

Pachnik, who had been with the department for six years at the time of the shooting, could not be reached for comment, and a spokesman for the Police Department referred calls to the city’s Law Department. Bill McCaffrey, its spokesman, expressed disappointment in the verdict.

“We’re evaluating our options,” he said.

Krystal Ellis weeps as she is led to a police squad car at the scene where her boyfriend, Gary Smith, 37, was shot by a police officer in early morning hours of May 11, 2014, in Chicago. (Anthony Souffle/Chicago Tribune)

The Independent Police Review Authority, the city agency that was widely distrusted for the quality of its investigations of alleged police misconduct before it was disbanded in 2017, cleared Pachnik, finding that his use of force complied with department policy.

Advertisement

Without naming Pachnik, IPRA reported that the officer fired seven times, but its report listed eight gunshot wounds to Smith’s left chest, torso, left arm, left thigh and left lower back.

At the news conference, Davis told reporters she was relieved by the jury’s verdict. The case had first gone to trial last May but ended in a hung jury.

Davis criticized several officers who were at the scene of the shooting, saying they covered up Pachnik’s actions.

“My brother and I are so grateful that the jury saw through these lies,” said Davis, reading from a statement.

The shooting happened after a Mother’s Day party at a barbershop in the early morning hours of May 11, 2014, near Madison Street and Lotus Avenue in the city’s Austin community. The Austin District police station is just a few blocks west.

According to court filings by the family’s lawyers, Smith’s girlfriend, Krystal Ellis, testified in a deposition that the couple had left the party when Smith heard a group of people across the street arguing and went to break it up.

Advertisement

Ellis then saw a police SUV drive toward the group, “almost about to run the people over,” a filing quoted her as saying.

She testified that Smith ran back to her and the two proceeded around the corner on Lotus toward her car.

Ellis said she noticed an officer running toward them from behind.

The officer said, “Hey,” according to Ellis’ account.

Smith “threw up his hands, and he was immediately shot,” the filing alleged.

Footage from a police surveillance camera shows a crowd fleeing as a police car pulls up but did not capture the shooting.

Advertisement

In the same court filing, the lawyers for Smith’s survivors alleged that Pachnik testified in his deposition that he did not see a gun before shooting Smith. The officer opened fire after his partner had warned him that Smith had a gun, and Pachnik saw Smith making “movements when he was running (that) implied he had a gun to me,” he said in the deposition, according to the filing.

The family’s lawyers alleged that other officers on the scene intentionally covered up for Pachnik, citing that police did not canvass the area for witnesses even though there were dozens, among other things.

The FOP spokesman said on the day of the shooting that the Glock was recovered at the scene, but the family’s lawyers told reporters Friday that Smith’s fingerprints weren’t found on the gun and that no other evidence linked him to the weapon.

“The first hard evidence of that gun is when it appears about three hours after the shooting in the trunk of a (police) car,” said Irene Dymkar, one of the family’s lawyers. “It’s just thrown in the back with a lot of junk in the trunk, and they claimed that that was the gun that they found at the scene.”

Advertisement

jgorner@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @JeremyGorner