Sean Holstege

The Republic | azcentral.com

New evidence came to light Tuesday that supports the Eloy Police Department's explanation of a fatal officer-involved shooting Sunday.

The Pinal County Sheriff's Office, investigating the shooting of 25-year-old Victor Luis Arenas of Eloy, released a video from the "body cam" of Eloy Officer Richard Timmes. It shows Arenas shooting at Timmes first as the officer was patrolling a darkened West Sixth Street.

Arenas' family has said the official version was wrong. They claimed in the past two days that the officer never identified himself — he didn't in the video — and that no words were exchanged. But the video shows otherwise.

The Sheriff's Office released a press statement rebutting the family's claims and denouncing media coverage of the incident, the third fatal officer-involved shooting in Eloy in six months. The other two involved Pinal County sheriff's deputies.

"While we understand the family of Arenas is grieving his loss, their account of what occurred as they describe it to the media is not consistent with what they told investigators in recorded interviews on the day of the shooting. It is also not consistent with evidence at the scene," the Sheriff's Office said.

The video shows Timmes patrolling a dark street, with only the spotlight from his flashlight visible. A dog is barking.

Ten seconds later, a man in the dark is heard shouting.

"What are you doing shining that (expletive) light in my (expletive) house, (expletive)?" the man shouts.

Seconds later, Timmes spots the man behind a chain-link fence, holding a weapon. "What are you doing?" Timmes asks, then commands the man to "put the (expletive) gun down!"

One second later, there is a flash from behind the fence and the sound of a gunshot.

Then, a series of three rapid gunshots are followed by a pause, another report, another pause and then four shots in quick succession.

Timmes starts running toward the house and, within five seconds, reports the shooting over the radio.

About 34 seconds after the last shots are fired, another man is heard, asking "What's he shooting at?"

A woman starts crying.

Almost a minute after the shots, Timmes replies: "He was shooting at me. Where's he at?"

The woman's crying gets louder. Timmes sees a man who asks him: "What happened?"

"He came out shooting at me," Timmes replies.

There is no verbal exchange on the video in which Timmes identifies himself as a police officer, although the Sheriff's Office said he was wearing a full uniform and walking down the middle of the street. He was responding to a call of a burglary at a nearby business at 2:34 a.m.

"The loss of any life is a tragic event. Any member of the public should be able to walk the streets of our community at any time of the day or night and feel safe," Eloy Police Chief Bill Pitman said.

Timmes, who has been on the force 31/2 years, was placed on administrative leave, a routine procedure after such incidents.

Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu credited Timmes in his statement.

"Law-enforcement officers are forced to make split-second judgment decisions in circumstances that are uncertain and rapidly evolving," Babeu said. "Officer Timmes is lucky to be alive today and probably only survived due to his training and quick reaction to Arenas, who was trying to shoot him.

"Members of the media and others should get all the facts before they second-guess the life-and-death realities officers are faced with on a daily basis."