A former municipal police officer in Carbon County will serve prison time for an on-duty 2014 crash that left a 69-year-old woman dead and severely injured her husband.

Steven Homanko, of Beaver Meadows, Pennsylvania, attends his preliminary hearing June 30, 2015, in Lansford, Pennsylvania, on homicide by vehicle and other charges in a May 2014 crash that killed a woman and injured her husband and occurred while Homanko was on duty as a municipal police officer. (Jarrad Hedes/Times News file photo | For lehighvalleylive.com)

Steven Homanko, 27, of Beaver Meadows, Pennsylvania, was sentenced Wednesday in Carbon County Court to three to 23 months in the county prison after pleading guilty Sept. 20 to homicide by vehicle, according to the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office.

Upon his release, he must begin serving two years' probation on a count of reckless endangerment, said Jeffrey Johnson, spokesman for Attorney General Bruce Beemer.

Homanko also pleaded guilty to failure to keep right and careless driving, according to court records.

He has been free on $100,000 unsecured bail since his arraignment May 5, 2015. He will begin serving his sentence Saturday, The Times New reports.

Homanko was working as police officer in Nesquehoning, Pennsylvania, the day of the crash May 12, 2014, when he began pursuing another driver for an illegal pass.

Homanko reached speeds of 113 mph before, he told investigators, he spun out on a curve and the back of his cruiser struck the front of a vehicle driven by Michael Sauers, then 64, and his wife, 69-year-old Carola Sauers.

The Sauerses were flown to St. Luke's University Hospital in Fountain Hill, where Carola Sauers was pronounced dead. Michael Sauers was hospitalized for severe injuries, and Homanko was treated and released at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Salisbury Township.

The couple were from Hazleton, Pennsylvania. Carola Sauers, born in Germany, was a physical therapy assistant, according to The Times News; Michael Sauers taught second grade in the Pleasant Valley School District in Monroe County.

Homanko was placed on leave two weeks after the crash and fired in March.

His attorney, Paul Levy, did not respond to calls for comment this week.

Bucks County Senior Judge John J. Rufe heard the case, according to The Times News, after all three Carbon County Common Pleas Court judges recused themselves from the case. The attorney general's office prosecuted the case after Carbon County District Attorney Jean Engler also recused her office.

Kurt Bresswein may be reached at kbresswein@lehighvalleylive.com. Follow him on Twitter @KurtBresswein. Find lehighvalleylive.com on Facebook.