Four Citrus County deputies were involved in a shooting that left a suspect dead.

According to the Citrus County Sheriff's Office, the shooting happened in the 6500 block of North Clayton Avenue at around 10 p.m. Monday night when they responded to a domestic violence call.

Sheriff Jeff Dawsy has identified the dead man as David James Barclay, 41, of Dunellon.

According to deputies, Barclay went to the home of his estranged wife to see his son. He was armed with a gun and forced his way into the home, authorities said.

Amanda Barclay, 34, and her 3-year-old son were home at the time.

The Sheriff called it a violent encounter especially when the SWAT team was brought in and when Barclay walked out of the house and refused orders to drop his weapon, four deputies fired at him.

"I couldn't believe it and, in fact, I still feel like it's a nightmare,” said David and Amanda’s longtime friend and neighbor, Clair Rachoza. "When they first got married, I went to their wedding."



But their marriage went downhill, she said, and Amanda Barclay moved out with their 3-year-old son about a year go into another home a couple of miles away.



That’s where deputies said David Barclay forced his way into the house with a gun on Tuesday night and argued with Amanda.



He would later walk out of the house and when deputies told him to drop his gun, they said he refused and shot at them.



That’s when, they said, they were forced to shoot him dead.



Neighbors said David Barclary never knew his estranged wife's roommate was inside the house. And in fact, they tell us that roommate ran out of the window and took her little child with her and down the street to the neighbor’s house where she called 911.



The owner of that home, James Lynch, said the roommate was so scared that when she got to his house, she took her child and hid in his bathtub.



Sheriff Jeff Dawsy said her actions of sneaking out of the house to call 911 may have helped save lives.



"She is a very brave person but also I think your parental aspects kick in," Dawsy said.

As for the estranged couple, neighbors who knew both David and Amanda said their relationship soured though they had never filed for divorce but in the end, they said they never imagined it would come down to this.



"I hope everything goes good for Amanda,” said Lynch. “She's had a real hard life with him."



"Very good person but he was hurt and I think he never got over that hurt and that is when his wife left him," said Rachoza.



It’s heartache for a family whose 3-year-old will never see his father again and his mother who is left to live with the frightening ordeal.



An autopsy was scheduled for Wednesday. According to court records, Barclay was arrested in November on a violation of injunction and weapons charge. He violated probation again in March.



The four deputies who returned fire at Barclay have been placed on paid administrative leave per agency policy until FDLE's review is completed.



The investigation is ongoing.