A call to a number listed for Foster’s family in Sherborn was not returned on Monday.

Nicholas Foster had earlier on May 15 allegedly attacked and stabbed his wife and her friend, District Attorney Jonathan W. Blodgett’s office said in releasing the findings in an eight-page report that cleared Salisbury police Officer Michael Alder and Chief Thomas Fowler.

The Salisbury police chief and a town police officer have been cleared in the May 15 shooting death of a 29-year-old man with a history of psychological issues who had charged them while holding a machete and a knife, the Essex district attorney’s office said Monday.

Advertisement

Blodgett said in a prepared statement that “the officers reasonably believed Foster posed an immediate threat of killing or seriously injuring them or others,” and that the shooting was justified.

According to the report, which was based in part on witness interviews and cellphone footage, police responded to a possible double stabbing at 150 Cable Ave., where Foster lived with his wife and her father. The officers were met by Foster, who had crashed a vehicle into one of the cruisers.

Get Breaking News Alerts Stay up-to-date with important news developments, delivered right to your inbox. Enter Email Sign Up

Foster got out of the vehicle with a “crazed look in his eyes,” the report said. He was wielding the machete and knife and repeatedly told the officers to kill him, the report said.

Police ordered Foster to drop the weapons, but he ignored their commands and rushed at them after Seabrook, N.H. police Officer Justin Murphy fired at him with a Taser, Blodgett’s office said.

Foster was six to 10 feet from the officers, with the machete raised, when Alder and Fowler fired two shots each, striking him three times, according to the report.

Prior to the shooting, Foster had burst into the home and allegedly stabbed his wife, Alice Zombie, and her friend, Jack Gulmire, 30, of Abrams, Wis., who had arrived the night before, the report said. Both survived the attack.

Advertisement

Zombie had texted Foster while he was dog-sitting to inform him that Gulmire would be in town. She wrote that Foster did not have to worry about Gulmire because “she would never leave Foster and did not have a relationship with Gulmire beyond being friends,” according to the report.

Foster later reportedly screamed “you are cheating on me” during the alleged stabbing, Blodgett’s office said.

Travis Andersen can be reached at travis.andersen@globe.com. Follow him on Twitter @TAGlobe.