An appeals court has exonerated Wichita Falls Police Officer Stephen Ginger in the shooting death of a man in 2014. A Wichita County Grand Jury in July of 2014 found no criminal wrong doing with the officers actions in the shooting.

Police say Powell charged toward officer Ginger holding “brutus knuckles” in each hand at full speed, yelling “shoot me”. The knuckles, topped with two blade like protrusions, are branded as self- defense products, but in Texas they are a prohibited weapon.

However, Powell’s mother filed a lawsuit in federal court saying that her son’s fourth amendment right was violated, which prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures.



In February of 2016, Ginger requested that the case not go to trial and Judge Robert Roach granted that, sighting that Powell did not provide event substantial evidence to determine where Officer Ginger used excessive force.

But Powell filed an appeal with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. Today, the appeals court upheld the original decision, exonerating Ginger in the death of Joshua Powell.

The following statement from the WFPD describes what happened the night of the shooting on May 14, 2014:

On May 14th, 2014, at approximately 6:30 pm, Officers were dispatched to a residence in the 2000 block of Gloria Lane in reference to family disturbance. The first Officer arrived at the scene alone and within moments of arriving he was confronted with a subject with a weapon. The Officer discharged his firearm and struck the armed subject.

1st responders were called immediately to the scene however the subject died at the scene. Justice of the Peace Sons pronounced Joshua Powell, Hispanic Male, DOB 07-09-1991 deceased.



The incident is under investigation by the Wichita Falls Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Section, Wichita County District Attorney’s Office and the Office of Professional Conduct. Powell’s body will be sent to the Tarrant County Medical Examiner for Autopsy. The details of the investigation will be presented to the Wichita County Grand Jury.



The officer involved in the shooting was Officer Stephen Ginger, who has 10 years of service with the Wichita Falls Police Department. Officer Ginger has been placed on Administrative (paid) leave during this investigation, which is customary and policy in these situations.



The WFPD Public Information Office will be responsible for all questions and the release of all information related to this incident.



Sergeant John Spragins

Wichita Falls Police Department

Public Information Officer