Sarah Okeson

News-Leader

The fatal shooting of a 50-year-old woman in May by Springfield police and Greene County Sheriff's employees has been ruled justified by the county's top prosecutor.

Greene County Prosecuting Attorney Dan Patterson sent a letter today to Sheriff Jim Arnott and Springfield Police Chief Paul Williams detailing his reasons for the conclusion.

Tracey Liniger was shot outside a west Springfield storage facility May 13.

"It is my opinion that the law enforcement officers' use of deadly force was justified under both the law of self-defense and the law applicable to the apprehension of an armed and dangerous felon," Patterson wrote.

Liniger's daughter, Marcey Hartman, has previously said that her mother battled depression much of her life but didn't want to speculate whether she deliberately provoked police. The daughter also said her mother suffered from cancer.

Patterson wrote that Liniger had offered a man at the storage facility $1,000 to kill her after putting a gun near another man's head. He also wrote that she shot the tire of a vehicle driven by Daniel Birkenfeld.

The confrontation started at 2:15 p.m. when Birkenfeld and Tracy Hester went to check on Birkenfeld's RV at A & A Mini Storage where Liniger was the manager. When they tried to leave, the gate was shut. Birkenfeld honked his horn to try to get the office worker to open the gate.

Patterson wrote that Liniger walked out, appearing angry, agitated and intoxicated. She walked back in the office without opening the gate. Hester tried to open the gate and then knocked on the office door. At Liniger's request, he hugged her and then walked away. A few seconds later, she came out of the office with a gun.

Patterson wrote that Liniger put the gun near Birkenfeld's head as he hugged her. He tried to call 911 which angered Liniger. She shot the tire on his vehicle and then began randomly shooting in the air and on the ground around the men.

Birkenfeld fled to the nearby KADI radio station where a station employee called 911. Hester remained with Liniger who asked him to kill her, offering him $1,000. She became increasingly angry and shot at the vehicle again.

Hester grabbed the gun from Liniger and threw it over a fence, but Liniger retrieved the gun.

The first law enforcement officer arrived on the scene at 2:50 p.m. Liniger was shot at 3:14 p.m. after she opened the door to her office at the storage facility and came out with a gun in her right hand. The entire interaction between Liniger and law enforcement was captured on police video, according to Patterson's letter.

Patterson wrote that Lininger refused to comply with officers' demands to surrender

Patterson wrote that she appeared to place a magazine in the gun before raising her right hand and pointing the gun at the officers. Greene County Sgt. Robert Pounds, Deputy Justin Adamson and Springfield police officers Marc Stevens and Jason Bohannon all fired at her.

Liniger died of gunshot wounds to the torso, according to Patterson's letter.

A 1989 U.S. Supreme Court ruling, Graham v. Connor, defines reasonable use of force by police. That case says that the reasonableness of use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene rather than with 20/20 hindsight.

"On more than one occasion Ms. Liniger refused to follow the officers' commands to surrender," Patterson wrote. "Instead, Ms. Liniger knowingly raised her firearm and pointed it toward the officers. At that time, the officers reasonably believed that they were in imminent danger of death or serious physical injury."

Springfield's use of force policy allows police to use lethal force when an officer "reasonably believes that the action is in the defense of human life, including the officer's own life, or in the defense of any person in immediate danger of serious physical injury or death."

Police researchers who study officer-involved shootings say some of them are what's known as "suicide by cop." That's when a suicidal individual intentionally provokes a police officer to shoot him or her.

The vast majority of victims in such deaths are male, according to a paper published in May 2011 in the Journal of Forensic Sciences. The researchers, who looked at 707 officer-involved shootings from 1998 to 2006, found that only 12 of them involved suicide by cop when the victim was female.

Liniger's death came four days after another police shooting, this one not fatal, involving a mentally ill Springfield man who had served prison time and was wanted on a warrant. The officer in that case, Jason Shuck, has been charged with misdemeanor third-degree assault.

Timeline of events May 13

Greene County Prosecutor Dan Patterson's letter lays out the sequence of events May 13 that led to Tracey Liniger's fatal shooting:

• 2:44 p.m. Officer Brad Eddy with the Springfield Police Department begins driving to the scene.

• 2:50 p.m. Eddy is the first officer to arrive on scene. The gate at the storage facility is still shut so he parks his patrol car outside the fence in such a way that the entire interaction between Liniger and police is captured on video. Springfield police officers and Greene County deputies begin arriving on scene and taking up positions around the storage complex.

• 2:53 p.m. Liniger exits the office. An officer yells to "Drop the gun." Liniger quickly goes back into the office.

• 3:02 p.m. Liniger opens and immediately shuts the office door. During this time, dispatch is updating officers on the information being provided by witnesses. This includes more specific information regarding Liniger's shooting at the victims' vehicle, Liniger's request to be killed, Liniger's potential mental issues, and Liniger's access to an additional gun inside of the office.

• 3:07 p.m. Springfield Police Lt. Todd Revell makes phone contact with Liniger in an attempt to deescalate the situation. Liniger's speech is slurred and difficult to understand. Liniger is enraged, yelled profanities, and hung up the phone.

• 3:08 p.m. Lt. Revell calls Liniger back. When Lt. Revell asks if anyone else is inside; Liniger states "Yes," then "No," then "You figure it out." Liniger hangs up the phone shortly thereafter.

• 3:10 p.m. Lt. Revell calls Liniger back. Liniger does not answer. Lt. Revell leaves a message talking for several seconds in the event that Liniger could hear the message being left.

• 3:10 p.m. Liniger opens the office door and steps outside. Officers yell for her to "Drop the weapon!" and "Put your hands up!" Liniger goes back inside after a few seconds.

• 3:11 p.m. Lt. Revell calls Liniger back. Again, Liniger does not answer. Lt. Revell leaves a message.

• 3:13 p.m. Lt. Revell calls Liniger back. Liniger answers this call. Lt. Revell attempts to explain that he is calling to try to work out the situation. Liniger continues yelling at Lt. Revell and makes comments indicating that someone else may possibly be inside the office.

• 3:14 p.m. Liniger opens the office door. Liniger steps out and has a gun in her right hand. Liniger bends down and appears to pick up the magazine for the gun. At least seven times, officers can be heard yelling "Drop the gun!" She appears to place the magazine in the gun, raises her right arm, and points the gun at the officers.

At that time, Greene County Sergeant Robert Pounds, Greene County Deputy Justin Adamson, Springfield Police Officer Marc Stevens, and Springfield Police Officer Jason Bohannon all fire their weapons at Liniger, who falls to the ground