B.C. Kowalski

Stevens Point Journal Media

STEVENS POINT - The district attorney confirmed what sheriff's office officials have believed all along: That an off-duty detective who shot a home intruder in May was acting in self-defense.

Portage County District Attorney Louis Molepske announced Thursday afternoon that he had determined that Tony Gischia, a detective with the Portage County Sheriff's Department, acted in self-defense when he shot 30-year-old Charles Jameson at Gischia's home in Plover on May 17. Gischia's actions were in accordance with state law, Molepske said.

Gischia returned with his fiance around 1 a.m. May 17 to his home on Easlan Drive in Plover and encountered a man in black clothing walking from one bedroom to another room in the house, according to Molepske's report. The man attacked Gischia, first attempting to get a knife to use as weapon and then grabbing a frying pan. He hit Gischia in the head, blurring the detective's vision, according to the report.

Gischia repeatedly told Jameson to stop hitting him with the frying pan and to get on the ground, the report said. The detective told Jameson that he was a police officer and that he had a firearm. Jameson continued his attack, the report said.

Gischia shot twice with his service handgun to stop the attack, killing Jameson. According to the report, Jameson had been spreading a flammable liquid like gasoline around the house prior to Gischia's return home.

Jameson was the former boyfriend of Gischia's fiance and had previously been court-ordered not to have contact with her, according to Molepske's report.

He had a long criminal record prior to the shooting. Prosecutors filed charges against Jameson in October 2012 accusing him of strangulation and suffocation; stalking resulting in bodily harm; battery or threat to a witness; and criminal damage to property, all following an incident in which he allegedly broke into his ex-girlfriend's home, beat her, strangled her and destroyed her Stevens Point apartment.

He also was charged that month with bail jumping, criminal damage to property and disorderly conduct. Jameson faced charges of identification fraud and illegally obtaining prescription drugs in 2013, and prosecutors filed more prescription drug charges in January.

Jameson's death was tragic, and it will haunt the families of everyone involved, Molepske said. But he reiterated that Gischia's actions on May 17 "did not constitute any criminal wrong-doing."

The decision confirmed what sheriff's office officials assumed all along: That Gischia was acting in self-defense, said Portage County Sheriff John Charewicz.

Gischia returned to duty roughly a month after the shooting, Charewicz said. Sheriff's Office officials made sure he had received all the counseling he needed before returning to duty.

"We're happy that deputy Gischia and his fiance are safe and unharmed," Charewicz said. "It's unfortunate that someone had to lose their life. Gischia was protecting himself."

The last time a Portage County deputy shot someone was in 2010 in the town of Sharon, when a deputy shot a man who was hiding in the woods with a rifle trained on other officers, Charewicz said.

"The whole situation is tragic, and I wish it hadn't happened," Charewicz said. "There's no way this comes out as a good situation for anyone."

B.C. Kowalski can be reached at 715-345-2251. Find him on Twitter as @BCreporter.