ONAWA, Iowa | A Westwood High School student who died Monday several hours after receiving her high school diploma is remembered as a "good kid" who was always smiling.

Hannah Stier, 18, was seriously injured in a car crash at 1:15 a.m. Monday. She later died at Mercy Medical Center -- Sioux City.

"She always had good things to say about the things that were going on here," said Lance Ridgely, superintendent of schools for the Westwood Community School District in Sloan, Iowa.

Stier's high school softball coach, Dan Thompson, said her death dealt a heavy blow to the small community.

He had known Stier since she was in eighth grade and coached her as she played catcher for the Westwood Rebels.

“(Monday) was one of the hardest days I’ve had to endure as a coach,” he said.

During softball practice Monday, many former players showed up to help previous and current teammates through the grieving process.

“She was a part of our softball family, and it is a very close family," Thompson said.

Iowa state Trooper Teige Melby said Stier was spotted driving southbound on Interstate 29 just after 1 a.m. Monday. He said a Monona County deputy reported she was traveling "well above" the posted speed limit of 70 mph.

The deputy, whose name has not yet been released by the Monona County Sheriff’s Office, attempted to pull her over, but she continued driving, taking the Onawa exit, Melby said.

Stier then crashed her vehicle on 225th Street, east of Filbert Avenue, Melby said.

She was taken to Mercy Medical Center in Sioux City where she later died.

About 12 hours earlier, Stier had walked across the stage at Westwood High School to receive her diploma. She was scheduled to start basic training in the Air Force in September.

Thompson said Stier's death will be a challenging obstacle to overcome. She had a pleasant demeanor and an adventurous outlook on life both on and off the field, he said.

“She’ll be greatly missed,” Thompson said. “She epitomized what we try to be as a team and as a program, which is hard work and having fun. That’s always been our motto and that’s very much the way she played.”

The deputy's involvement in the crash is under investigation by the Monona County Sheriff's Office, said Sheriff Jeff Pratt.

Their findings will be forwarded to the Monona County attorney for review when the investigation is concluded, he said.

"We're reviewing everything that took place," Pratt said. "We're just making sure that everything was in compliance with our policies."

The crash is under investigation by the Iowa State Patrol.