(Update, Sept. 3):

LITTLE ROCK, AR – A local man is in jail after being charged in a May incident in which an off-duty police officer shot and killed a man trying to rob him.

Torrance Deadmon, 25, is charged with Aggravated Robbery and Tampering with Physical Evidence.

Police say he was driving the car that Juvon Allen jumped into after suffering three gunshot wounds fired from officer Scott Stovall’s off-duty weapon.

Police say Deadmon tossed a weapon under a truck in the parking lot of a hospital emergency room where he had taken Allen, 21, who was pronounced dead on arrival.

Deadmon is being held on $40,000 bond.

(Update, May 21):

LITTLE ROCK, AR – The names of the off-duty police officer and the gunman involved in Sunday night’s incident have been released. Officer Scott Stovall, 50, is currently assigned to the Northwest Division as a motorcycle officer.



According to police, the gunman, Jovon Allen, 24, was shot while trying to rob the off-duty officer late Sunday night in the parking lot of an apartment complex at 2300 Rebsamen Park Road.



(Original Story, May 19):

LITTLE ROCK, AR – A man is dead after being shot while trying to rob an off-duty police officer. LITTLE ROCK, AR – The names of the off-duty police officer and the gunman involved in Sunday night’s incident have been released. Officer Scott Stovall, 50, is currently assigned to the Northwest Division as a motorcycle officer.According to police, the gunman, Jovon Allen, 24, was shot while trying to rob the off-duty officer late Sunday night in the parking lot of an apartment complex at 2300 Rebsamen Park Road.LITTLE ROCK, AR – A man is dead after being shot while trying to rob an off-duty police officer.





That’s according to the Little Rock Police Department, which says the incident late Sunday night happened in the parking lot of an apartment complex at 2300 Rebsamen Park Road.





Officers were called to the scene around 11:30.





The 50-year-old officer, whose name has not been released, told investigators he was loading a bike onto the back of his vehicle when the suspect walked up behind him and put a gun to his head.





The officer said he turned around and hit the gunman in the face and the gunman then hit him in the mouth before the officer took his off-duty weapon from his pocket and fired at the suspect. The gunman then ran across the parking lot but then stopped to shoot back at the officer, hitting the back window of a parked vehicle, the officer said.





The gunman then got inside a green Honda driven by another man. The vehicle was later found in the emergency room parking lot at St. Vincent.





Doctors told police the suspect, identified as Juvon Allen, 21, of Little Rock, had been shot three times in the chest area. He was pronounced dead at the hospital.





A 24-year-old man driving the vehicle found in the parking lot was questioned by police but there’s no word on charges filed against him. Police say he tossed a weapon under a truck in the hospital parking lot that officers seized as evidence in the case.