OROVILLE >> A Butte County sheriff’s deputy was justified in fatally shooting a Palermo man who aimed a pellet rifle at his face May 18, officials said Tuesday.

District Attorney Mike Ramsey said during a press conference at the Sheriff’s Office that dispatch records indicated that less than 30 seconds had elapsed between deputies first spotting decedent Cory Lee Bush, 24, with the weapon to deputy Benjamin Cornelius shooting Bush three times with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle.

Although Sgt. Matt Keeling yelled “Taser” upon seeing Bush bring the rifle up from the ground outside Bush’s residence on Refuge Avenue in Palermo, Ramsey said Cornelius acted after seeing the subject aim the weapon at him. Bush and Cornelius were about 16 feet apart at the time.

“There was no time at that point to deploy a Taser,” Ramsey said.

Based on the investigation by the Butte County Officer Involved Shooting Protocol Team, Ramsey’s office concluded in its report that “the weight of credible evidence shows no criminal liability” on the part of Cornelius. Evidence indicated the deputy’s actions were justified under the law, including those for self-defense.

‘Suicide by cop’

Ramsey said the officers had been responding to a call at 6:55 p.m. from Bush’s family that the man had been having a mental breakdown and allegedly wanted to commit suicide by having officers kill him.

Bush’s family had told investigators that the man had been distraught and suicidal that day. He reportedly told his family that he faced 33 months in state prison for several ongoing cases, including cases involving heroin, bath salts and smuggling drugs into Butte County Jail. He also was on probation for a 2010 stabbing case.

“All evidence in this case points to an another unfortunate incidence of ‘suicide by cop’ by a subject intent on forcing the responding deputies into killing him,” Ramsey said.

Tests after the shooting also indicated that Bush had a potentially toxic level of methamphetamine in his blood — 32 times the upper level of effective levels. The report notes family believed Bush had been under the influence of drugs that day, as he broke a door and windows in the house.

Armed with pellet rifle

During the incident, the caller appraised officers that Bush had a pellet rifle that appeared like a .22-caliber rifle. After the incident, investigators found the .177-caliber weapon was functional, although it wasn’t loaded at the time.

Ramsey said responding deputies were familiar with pellet rifles and knew they could inflict injury or death. Before arriving on the site, Sgt. Keeling directed deputies to respond with lethal force if Bush pointed the rifle in a threatening manner.

During the press conference, Ramsey showed the long weapon to reporters and demonstrated the action of the air rifle, which make a sharp “pop.” He also showed a video (http://www.tout.com/m/uxj07p) where a pellet from the rifle penetrated a 3/4-inch-thick panel of pressed wood, used as a stand-in for a human skull.

“This, as you can see, is a deadly weapon,” Ramsey said.

At the scene, deputies first tried yelling from outside the property to Bush but there was no response, leading to Keeling to move his vehicle to use a loudspeaker and deputy Robert Allen to provide cover from across the street. After 7:27 p.m., Cornelius, deputy Brian Evans and Evans’ dog, Duke, were at the gate when Bush emerged from around the corner of the house.

Bush was holding the rifle in a ready position as he walked rapidly toward the deputies. Deputies told the subject to drop the weapon, which Bush did before immediately picking it up again and attempting to break it over his leg. Ramsey pointed out that the weapon’s barrel folds open for breech loading.

The deputies were joined by Keeling and they again called for Bush to drop the weapon. Evans released Duke, who rushed towards Bush. Duke disengaged after Bush threw down the gun and raised his hands.

The officers approached Bush in the yard as the decedent allegedly yelled for them to kill him now. When officers were within 15 to 20 feet of Bush, the man retrieved the rifle from the ground, brought it up to his shoulder and aimed at Cornelius, leading to the shooting.

Bush fell backwards after the shooting and officers provided medical aid as did arriving first responders. Bush was pronounced dead at 7:40 p.m.

Gunshot analysis

All of the responding officers and three independent witnesses in a house across the street saw Bush aim the weapon at Cornelius, Ramsey said. He noted that only Bush’s fiancee, Victoria Moseley, disagreed. From her vantage point near an open door in the house, she reported that Bush had raised the weapon up with only one hand.

Ramsey said the investigation and autopsy supported the deputies and other witnesses. Analysis showed Bush was first shot in his left hand while it was in a position to support an aimed weapon. The decedent was subsequently shot in the neck and torso.

Sheriff Kory Honea said the evidence clearly showed Bush had a course of action in mind to put officers into circumstances to use deadly force. He said it is a situation that deputies don’t want to be in.

“This is an absolutely tragic event, not only for Mr. Bush and Mr. Bush’s family, but also for my deputies,” Honea said.

The deputies involved in the incident, including Cornelius, were returned to duty after preliminary finding showed the officers’ actions were justified.

Honea and Ramsey said Bush’s family hasn’t been told the findings of the investigation. The family was initially cooperative with investigators, but have subsequently retained an attorney, which limits the officials’ communication options.

Reach reporter Ryan Olson at facebook.com/NorCalJustice and 896-7763.