The mother of a 22-year-old man who died this week after exchanging gunfire with Tulsa police says her son was a military veteran whose behavior likely was the result of post-traumatic stress disorder.

Cody W. Young, 22, was shot by Officer Gene Hogan about 6 a.m. Wednesday at an apartment building on Rockford Avenue near 11th Street.

Officers had been dispatched to the location about 1 a.m. and observed Young standing in a second-story window armed with a shotgun, police said. Investigators said officers could hear Young mumbling something but were unable to make out what he was saying.

Police said Young pointed the gun at officers, firing at least one round.

Hogan, a 17-year veteran with the Tulsa Police Department, then fired once from a rifle, killing Young, police said. He has been placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation of the shooting.

While police have not determined why Young began shooting from the window, Young’s mother, Angie, said her son had battled PTSD since returning from Afghanistan as a member of the Oklahoma National Guard.

“Cody called a friend over after watching a war movie on television that triggered flashbacks of him being in Afghanistan,” Angie Young said.

“I don’t fault the police for what they did,” she said. “They had to protect themselves and others.”

Young said her son had similar episodes brought on by PTSD before but none that escalated to violence.

Young grew up in Tulsa and graduated from Edison High School, his mother said. He enlisted in the National Guard in 2009 and then was deployed to Afghanistan in 2011.

It was when he returned home in June 2012 that family members began to notice an unsettling change in his demeanor.

“He told us something was wrong,” Angie Young said about her son, who was discharged from the National Guard in 2013. “He was distant and kept to himself.”

Angie Young said relatives, and even Cody Young himself, attempted to get help from area physicians and Oklahoma Veterans Affairs clinics but his condition did not seem to improve.

Although he was prescribed medication to help treat his PTSD, Cody Young said he felt he wasn’t able to get the help he needed, his mother said.

“He tried to talk about it, but he didn’t think anybody understood him,” said Angie Young, who said it was difficult for Cody Young to maintain a job because of his condition. “He felt like he was getting the runaround.”

Col. Max Moss, a spokesman for the Oklahoma National Guard, said it is common for members of the military to return from tours of duty with PTSD.

“PTSD is a fairly common diagnosis for our soldiers, especially if they were in direct combat situations like many of our units were in Afghanistan,” he said. “It is a concern.”

Moss said Young was a member of Company F, 700 Support Battalion, out of Tulsa. He was deployed to Afghanistan in June 2011, and returned the following January.

Kendrick Marshall 918-581-8386