A Winston-Salem police officer fatally shot a Durham man after that man grabbed the officer’s baton, refused to comply with the officer’s commands and came within five feet of the officer, Forsyth County District Attorney Jim O’Neill said in a news release Tuesday.

O’Neill cleared Cpl. David Walsh, a 17-year veteran with the Winston-Salem Police Department, in the shooting of Montez Dewayne Hambric, 26, on May 25 in the 500 block of West Seventh Street. O’Neill said that after reviewing a report from the State Bureau of Investigation, he determined that Walsh’s use of force was justified under state law.

“The investigation demonstrates that Officer Walsh acted to protect his life and to protect the lives of others in Winston-Salem, North Carolina on May 25, 2014,” O’Neill said in the news release.

Walsh, who is on the downtown bike patrol, had been in administrative duty pending the SBI investigation, which is standard procedure for an officer-involved shooting. The SBI turned over its findings to O’Neill’s office in August.

The shooting occurred at 8 a.m. May 25, after police officers responded to a report of a stolen car crashing into a light pole near the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive and Carl Russell Avenue.

According to O’Neill’s news release, Officer A.G. Thrush saw Hambric while tracking speeders near a ramp leading onto U.S. 52. Hambric fit the description of the suspect in the hit-and-run accident, and he had blood on his hands and clothing, O’Neill said.

Thrush questioned Hambric, who gave a fake name and then ran away. Walsh found Hambric, who was running through a greenway on Marshall Street. Walsh caught up with Hambric and told him to get on the ground, but Hambric refused. O’Neill said that the SBI investigation concluded that Hambric became aggressive and charged at Walsh. Walsh used his taser on Hambric, who continued to resist and jumped back to his feet.

“Officer Walsh subsequently lost control of his ASP baton, while pulling it from his belt,” O’Neill said in the news release. “Hambric grabbed the baton, walked toward Officer Walsh with the baton in hand, and then began running again. Officer Walsh drew his pistol and pursued Hambric.”

Hambric ran into the woods and then came out, holding the baton “in an aggressive manner” and refusing to comply with Walsh’s command to get on the ground, according to the news release.

“Ignoring multiple commands to halt, Hambric, with the WSPD baton still in his hand, came within five feet of Officer Walsh, who fired one shot striking Hambric,” O’Neill said in the news release.

Hambric died of blood loss from a gunshot wound to the chest. O’Neill said that Hambric was struck in his upper abdomen.

A toxicology report showed that Hambric had cocaine in his system, O’Neill said in the news release.

The first officer who came to Walsh’s aid was wearing a body camera, which recorded the scene. O’Neill said the video shows Hambric holding Walsh’s baton.

O’Neill said that Hambric was on parole for a robbery conviction out of Kentucky and had a number of convictions in North Carolina. He also had pending felony charges in Orange County. The vehicle Hambric was driving was reported stolen May 15 in Chapel Hill. Authorities said that Hambric was likely in Winston-Salem at least a couple of days before the shooting and that he knew people in Winston-Salem.

(336) 727-7326