DENHAM SPRINGS, LA (WAFB) - Authorities have released the details of a morning crime spree that ended with a deadly crash in Denham Springs.

Louisiana State Police officials say the man killed in the crash has been identified as 23-year-old Hunter Lehmann of Denham Springs, LA.



According to the Livingston Parish Sheriff's Department, it started around 6 a.m. when a member of the Walker Police Department spotted a pickup-truck traveling on three wheels and sparks flying. The pickup crashed in a wooded area near the Walker Police Department and the driver, now identified as Lehmann, ran from the scene.

Walker Police then learned the truck was reported stolen from a neighboring parish.

Through surveillance images captured at a nearby convenience store, police were able to get a description of the driver. Police say he stopped at the convenience store for water.

While Walker Police were searching for the driver, officers received a report that a vehicle was just stolen from the Duff Road area.

While police were working that case, around 6:50 a.m., deputies with the Livingston Parish Sheriff's Office were called to a home on Juban Road in Denham Springs for a home invasion.

Deputies say a white male went into the garage of an occupied home, then ran off after being confronted by the homeowner. No one was injured. Members of the LPSO sent out a description of the suspect and suspect vehicle to local partners.

Members of the Denham Springs Police Department spotted the vehicle on S. Range Avenue near Vincent Road in Denham Springs.

Reports say when Lehmann saw the police car, he began driving recklessly off S. Range into nearby parking lots and onto side roads. Denham Springs Police initiated a pursuit and Lehmann continued to weave in and out of traffic aggressively and at a high rate of speed.

Lehmann approached 4-H Club road, a high traffic area during morning commute times, and he lost control of the truck and crashed head-on into a tree.

Lehmann did not survive the crash. Walker Police and the Livingston Parish Sheriff's Office say the description of the man taken from the home invasion case and the surveillance video from the convenience store match Lehmann.

The truck that crashed head-on into a tree is the truck that was stolen from Duff Road in Walker.



Officials say Lehmann was not wearing a seatbelt and drug impairment is suspected. A toxicology sample was taken from him and submitted to the Louisiana State Police Crime Lab for analysis.

Lehmann wanted by authorities in Livingston Parish for suspected previous criminal activity.

Copyright 2014 WAFB. All rights reserved.