HOLYOKE – The man killed in a two-car accident Tuesday night at Main and Berkshire streets in Holyoke has been identified as Danny Lugo, 25, of Springfield, according to Massachusetts State Police.

Lugo was killed when he crashed his black Honda head on into an SUV operated by a 61-year-old Holyoke man. The impact left the Holyoke man with serious injuries, and he is being treated in the Intensive Care Unit at Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, said Lt. Daniel G. Richard of the state police Media Relations Bureau.



The preliminary results from the state police investigation show that Lugo was driving at a high rate of speed when he crashed into the SUV that had just pulled out onto Main Street from Berkshire Street.

The accident happened just after 8 p.m. about 500 feet south of the Main Street Exit for Interstate 391. Lugo had just exited the highway from the northbound lane while fleeing a state police cruiser.

State police late Tuesday said that just before the accident Lugo had been pursued by a state police cruiser after he failed to pull over in traffic stop in I-391, and that the state police Troop B headquarters ordered the pursuit called off once the Honda exited the highway and drove into a densely populated area.

State Police spokesman David Procopio on Wednesday morning said that account was inaccurate. He said there was no “formal pursuit” by troopers because there was just a short period between the time Lugo failed to stop and when he exited the highway.

“The troopers in the cruiser terminated the pursuit themselves, prior to official authorization by Troop B headquarters, because they observed the suspect vehicle exit the highway almost immediately,” Procopio said.

Procopio has said the troopers attempted to pull Lugo over for motor vehicle violations but did not elaborate about what the violations were.

Richard said that following the crash, investigators discover drugs and cash inside Lugo’s Honda. Officers found 45 plastic baggies containing heroin, and $837 total in the car and on Lugo.

The investigation is ongoing and is begin conducted by the state police detective unit assigned to the Hampden County District Attorney’s Office, the state police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction and Crime Scene Services units, and the Holyoke police.

Accident scene in Holyoke