EAST NEW YORK (WABC) -- A retired NYPD officer working as a security guard shot and killed a gunman who was trying to rob him and steal his car in Brooklyn.

"When I seen the gun I said to myself, I am finished," the retired officer, Derrick Bishop said in an exclusive interview.

Roughly 12 hours after Derrick Bishop was nearly killed, it was clear Bishop was still in shock.

"He goes give me all your money before I shoot you," Bishop said.

Police say Manuel Ocampo was holding that gun.

The 18 year old, along with his nephew, allegedly walked up to Derrick's Mercedes around 3 Tuesday morning.

The 55 year old is a security guard for 2 businesses on Georgia Avenue. He was on duty when Ocampo knocked on the driver's side window, Derrick rolled it down and was staring at a 9 mm weaoib,

"I go listen, I'll give you everything I got, no problem, I went in my pockets I had 60 or 70 dollars, gave him that," said Bishop.

The teen didn't know it but Derrick also had a gun, and had already unbuckled his holster.

"I couldn't make a move for my weapon, I was thinking how the hell am I going to get out of this. I just wanted to get out of my car, I thought I was going to die right there," said Bishop.

Derrick said Ocampo then ordered him to give him his car. Derrick agreed and got out.

That's when he spotted the other teen but stayed focued on Ocampo.

"As I walked around him, he jumped in the car, turned back towards me, still with the gun looking at me," said Derrick.

Bishop knew he had to do something and fired 4 shots. Ocampo tried to return fire but his weapon jammed.

But even though he had been hit in the chest, the teen managed to run 150 yards before collapsing and dying.

"My son Manuel, he was in school, he was working after school, he didn't have time to hang out. He just went over to his sister's house for the weekend," said the suspect's mother, Wanda Ocampo.

A weapon, believed to belong to the suspect, was recovered at scene.

Police Commissioner William Bratton told reporters Tuesday the retired officer was licensed to carry the weapon he allegedly used to shoot Ocampo.

The former officer had been retired for 10 years. Police say the second suspect is Ocampo's cousin and has been arrested.