This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

Close Modal Suggest a Correction Suggest a Correction

SOUTHAVEN, Miss. — A man who a Southaven police officer said hit him with a car died after being shot by that officer. The shooting happened at about 9:30 a.m. in the Big Lots store parking lot in the 800 block of Stateline Road District Attorney John Champion said from what he knows right now, he believes this shooting was justified. He said the suspect not only ran over an officer, but also tried to run over him again. “It’s one of those situations that got completely out of control for no reason,” said Champion. “He ran over the officer, backed up, was about to run over the officer again, and shots were fired.” Undercover officers met a drug dealer in the Big Lots parking lot, and when they moved in to make an arrest, they say the driver took off, running over an officer. That officer fired his gun, and so did at least one other officer. The driver was hit and died on the way to the hospital. Police arrested another suspect in the car, and found a small child, who is now in the care of the Department of Human Services. Champion said from what he knows right now, he believe the officers did nothing wrong. “I have been briefed on the actual sequence of events and I don’t see any misconduct on the part of the officers at all.” Witnesses say they saw the police officer who was run over stand up after being hit, so it looks like he’s going to be OK. Police handed over this case to the Desoto County Sheriff’s Office. “Since it’s our shooting, we contacted them the local district attorney and the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation will be coming to work this shooting for us,” said Tom Long, the chief of Southaven Police. Investigators spent hours mapping the crime scene and gathering statements from witnesses. The DA said he’s going to be taking all the evidence gathered and make an official decision soon about whether the shooting was justified. For now, he isn’t releasing the officers name or the man who was shot and killed.