NORFOLK

Officer Toofan Shahsiah knew that the man he was confronting had shot two police officers, and that he had been on a shooting spree that ranged for miles.

Shahsiah heard calls for help on his police radio and then saw the red Jeep Cherokee, lights out, described in the alert. Its driver, James Andrew Brown, 29, shot at the police car as Shahsiah pursued. Shahsiah could hear bullets popping and whizzing past him.

At the intersection of Galveston Avenue and East Little Creek Road, Brown crashed into two cars.

Even as he climbed out of the wreck, he held a gun in his hand.

Shahsiah tried repeatedly to spare Brown’s life, ordering him to put down the gun and surrender. Brown repeatedly pretended to submit, only to attack the officer when he got close.

In the end, Brown forced Shahsiah to shoot in a hand-to-hand struggle over the officer’s gun.

Shahsiah shot Brown eight times.

Details of the May 30 rampage that killed police Officer Brian Jones and 17-year-old Mark Rodriguez and injured police Officer Curtis Allison emerged Friday in a letter written by Norfolk Commonwealth’s Attorney Greg Underwood to police Chief Mike Goldsmith.

Underwood found that Shahsiah’s use of fatal force against Brown was justified.

“Had Officer Shahsiah not acted in the manner he did, given all the evidence and reasonable inferences in the case, Officer Shahsiah likely could have been killed by Brown and other citizens in the area potentially victimized,” Underwood wrote.

The report provides a detailed description of what happened that night, as well as Brown’s increasingly erratic behavior in the weeks leading up to it.

Brown was a troubled teenager who became a troubled adult, Underwood’s letter says.

After disciplinary problems cropped up, Brown was encouraged to start jiujitsu training. He trained for years and was within one rank of achieving a black belt in the discipline.

“Brown was described… as having personal combat training far superior to that which a Norfolk Police Recruit receives,” according to Underwood.

Brown quit high school, then joined the Army. After basic training, he went AWOL and was “administratively separated” from the Army. He returned to Norfolk and lived with his mother, continuing jiujitsu training.

In 2011, he was convicted of misdemeanor assault and battery and reckless driving in separate instances. He was convicted in 2012 of unlawfully carrying a loaded firearm.

By May, he was working at a home improvement business on Chesapeake Boulevard, where he was allowed to sleep at night.

In the weeks before the shooting, Brown’s behavior turned bizarre. He talked about the book of Revelation and made oblique references to a “dog and lion.” He made charges to his mother’s credit card and then brandished an ax when she tried to call the company.

Days before the shooting, he called two old jiujitsu instructors and told them he had stolen from them years earlier. The weekend before the shootings, he kicked in his mother’s bedroom door at her house on Wellington Road and accused her of stealing the keys to his truck. His outbursts became more frequent: He’d blow up and storm out, then come back, his mother told police.

On May 30, the day of the shootings, his mother found out he’d run up $2,000 in unauthorized credit card charges. She told him to pack up and leave.

About 10:30 p.m., a surveillance camera at the business where Brown worked captured him leaving with a gun in his hand. Witnesses saw him peel out onto Chesapeake Boulevard in a red Jeep Cherokee, lights off.

Norfolk Christian High School held its graduation ceremony that night. Mark Rodriguez, a deeply religious junior who loved photography, dropped off a friend after attending the ceremony.

He headed home on Chesapeake Boulevard just after 10:30 p.m.

Brown shot at cars and people as he drove. Underwood wrote that 911 dispatchers handled a series of frantic phone calls.

Within moments, Rodriguez and Brown were both on the 8400 block of Chesapeake Blvd.

Two bullets fired by Brown struck Rodriguez, who crashed. A shot to his back killed him.

Brown continued shooting his way down the heavily traveled street, lined on both sides with houses and businesses. His bullets struck a Range Rover, shattering glass and injuring the woman and two children inside. Bullets hit an occupied Hampton Roads Transit van and passed through the window of another vehicle without harming anyone.

Brown drove onto the lawn at his mother’s house in the 7400 block of Wellington Road. That’s where two police officers confronted him.

One was off-duty Officer Curtis Allison, who lived nearby and responded to the call in his personal vehicle, wearing plainclothes and his personal ballistic vest. He brought his police radio, his service weapon and his personal rifle.

The other was Officer Brian Jones, on duty and driving a marked police car.

Underwood wrote that Allison and Jones approached Brown about the same time. Brown disappeared into his mother’s house; Jones stepped out of his car and ordered Brown to surrender. Brown re-emerged and began firing an AK-47.

One of the rounds pierced Jones’ ballistic vest; that bullet killed the officer. Jones never had the chance to fire, Underwood wrote.

Allison saw Brown fire at Jones and tried to take cover. Brown then fired at Allison and struck the officer in the hip.

Allison fired at Brown, who fled in the Jeep. Allison tried to help Jones and radioed Brown’s description and direction of travel to other officers.

Officer Shahsiah, working nearby, saw the red Jeep and pursued. Brown fired at the officer as they drove, then lost control of the Jeep at the intersection of Galveston Boulevard and East Little Creek Road, crashing into two cars.

The impact scattered debris over the road. A man from one of the cars lay bloodied in the street.

Brown climbed out of the Jeep with a gun in his hand.

Shahsiah got out of his patrol car, gun drawn, moving toward Brown and ordering him to “Stop” and “get down,” Underwood wrote.

Brown refused to comply. He moved behind the Jeep and threw down his handgun; police later found it had been emptied of bullets.

Brown moved toward some grass and said he wanted to surrender; Shahsiah again told Brown to get down.

When the two men were within arm’s length of each other, Brown lunged. Shahsiah hit Brown in the head with the butt of his gun.

Brown fell back, saying, “You got me. I give up.”

The officer holstered his weapon and pulled out his handcuffs. As Shahsiah tried to arrest him, Brown jumped off the ground and gripped the officer’s head and neck.

Then Brown grabbed for Shahsiah’s gun.

As the two struggled for the weapon, Shahsiah was able to push Brown away about a foot – enough to draw his gun.

Shahsiah knew Brown’s capacity to kill, Underwood wrote. He knew they were in a life-and-death struggle.

Shahsiah radioed about the shots he fired at 10:50 p.m.

Paramedics pronounced Brown dead at 11:07 p.m.

Neighbors who heard the crash described the struggle to police and said they dived for the floor when shots rang out.

Police found an AR-15 rifle and a Glock handgun on the ground near the Jeep. Inside the wrecked vehicle, they found a high-capacity Glock magazine and a grip for an AK-47.

As they backtracked through miles of crime scene, police found more than 50 expended bullets from three weapons, including the Glock, the AK-47 and the AR-15.

A toxicology report found no drugs or alcohol in Brown’s system.

“In consideration of all the evidence I find James Andrew Brown solely responsible for the homicides of Mark Rodriguez and Police Officer Brian Jones and the wounding of Officer Curtis Allison,” Underwood wrote. “Norfolk Police Officer Shahsiah reasonably acted in self-defense.”

?Gary A. Harki, 757-446-2370, gary.harki@pilotonline.com