The two Lancaster County sheriff’s deputies who shot and killed Doug DaMoude were cleared by their boss Wednesday and returned to work.

Capt. Thomas Brookhouser and Sgt. Tommy Trotter followed the department’s policies for using deadly force and serving evictions when they shot DaMoude, 64, four times Friday afternoon, Sheriff Terry Wagner concluded.

Deputies William “Woody” Woodruff and Kirk Price also were at 5901 English Park Court at the time of the shooting, Wagner said.

Between the four, they have 120 years of experience, he said.

"They knew what they were doing. They had taken every precaution necessary."

The deputies didn’t know DaMoude was inside the house until they breached the door and saw him standing in front of them, Wagner said.

Locksmith Mark Randall said he disabled the front door’s lock and one of the deputies told him to clear out as they burst into the house. Still, Randall said he saw the edge of DaMoude and his rifle and felt what he thought was a bullet from DaMoude’s gun whiz by his head.

Investigators with the Lincoln Police Department later determined DaMoude did not fire a shot and the rifle he pointed at deputies was unloaded, Police Chief Jim Peschong said Monday.

“I was a little freaked out,” Randall said Monday. “It all happened so fast. I just wanted to get out of the way.”

On Wednesday, Wagner said he’s still assessing what sort of danger the locksmiths were in and if that will lead him to change any of his department’s policies.

“When it’s all said and done, we’ll review those as well,” the sheriff said, declining to talk more about the locksmiths’ safety.

Lincoln police are still piecing together what happened, and a Lancaster County grand jury will decide if deputies broke the law when they shot DaMoude. Peschong said investigators are finishing up, and then he’ll meet with County Attorney Joe Kelly to see if there’s anything else he wants checked out.

Kelly said he’ll wait for DaMoude’s autopsy results, which usually take about 40 days. Then he’ll have what he needs to convene a grand jury.

State law requires a county attorney call a grand jury whenever a suspect or inmate dies in the custody of law enforcement officers or in the process of being apprehended. Jurors deliberate in secret.

On Friday, DaMoude barricaded himself inside his former home as the locksmiths disabled the locks and the four deputies forced their way in.

DaMoude raised the rifle in their direction, Peschong said. Woodruff grabbed the rifle to point it away from deputies as Brookhouser and Trotter fired five shots, hitting DaMoude on the left side of the head, in the chin and twice in the left bicep. The fifth bullet went into the roof.

Brookhouser fired two shots, and Trotter three, Peschong said, adding that investigators probably won’t try to figure out whose bullets hit DaMoude where, because there’s no need.

“These things are all just happening at the snap of your finger,” Peschong said Wednesday. “We’re lucky Woody doesn’t get pulled by DaMoude into the line of fire.”

DaMoude died at the scene. Pathologists said a preliminary autopsy shows he died from a bullet to the head.

In letters to the sheriff’s office and police in the weeks before he was shot, DaMoude said he did not recognize their authority and would kill them if they tried to break into his house, the chief said. The deputies who went to remove him from the house on Friday knew about the threats, he said.

Wagner promoted Brookhouser a year ago from sergeant to captain to lead the department’s civil division. The four deputies, one sergeant and five civilians in the division serve some 2,500 civil and criminal writs each month, or some 28,000 court documents each year, including eviction notices, subpoenas and tax collection documents.

Commanding the civil division was a switch for Brookhouser, who’s worked in the sheriff’s office for 24 years, nearly all of them in the criminal and patrol divisions.

He also led the department’s Tactical Response Unit, taught deputies defensive tactics and coordinated the Bike Patrol Unit.

“I’ve always been one of those guys who’s working out on the road,” he said a week after his promotion. “To come in here to command a division is a good thing, but it’s a different type of duties.”