JEFFERSON CITY • The head of the Missouri Highway Patrol went too far in firing a trooper after he was convicted of a misdemeanor in the drowning death of a handcuffed Iowa man, a judge has found.

Cole County Judge Patricia Joyce ruled Wednesday that Col. Sandra Karsten, the patrol’s superintendent, can’t go beyond the recommendation of a disciplinary review board that found Anthony Piercy should be reinstated as a trooper and transferred. Joyce sent the case back to the patrol for consideration of a lesser punishment, The Kansas City Star reports.

The father of the man who drowned said he was shocked by Joyce’s ruling. Law enforcement should be held accountable, Craig Ellingson said.

“If you’re on the blue line team you’re safe,” he said. “You can kill anyone you want. ... He gets his job back and my son is dead.”

Piercy pulled Brandon Ellingson, 20, over on the Lake of the Ozarks for suspicion of boating while intoxicated on May 31, 2014.

During the stop, Piercy handcuffed the Iowa man’s hands behind his back. Witnesses told authorities that the trooper then stuffed an already-buckled life vest — the wrong one for a handcuffed person — over Ellingson’s head.

On the way to a field office for more testing, Piercy traveled at speeds of up to 46 mph. At one point, after the boat hit a wave, Ellingson was ejected. While in the water, his improperly secured life vest soon came off. Piercy eventually jumped in to try to save him, but couldn’t.

A toxicology report would later show that Ellingson’s blood-alcohol level was 0.268 percent, more than three times the legal limit. His family thinks the test was inaccurate because Ellingson’s body wasn’t recovered from the water for more than 18 hours.

Nearly four months after Ellingson drowned, a coroner’s inquest determined the death was accidental, and the special prosecutor assigned then to the case declined to file charges. During the inquest, Piercy, a veteran road trooper who was helping out on the water, told jurors that he wasn’t trained for what he encountered that day.

The first prosecutor reopened the case in early 2015 for more investigation, and eventually a special prosecutor charged Piercy with involuntary manslaughter.

Piercy pleaded guilty last year to negligent operation of a vessel for using the wrong type of life jacket. He was sentenced in September to two years of supervised probation and 10 days in jail.

“I would like to apologize for the loss I caused the Ellingson family,” the trooper said at sentencing. “… Brandon should be here with them today.”

He was fired in December but sued, saying Missouri Highway Patrol leaders had overstepped their authority.

The judge agreed Wednesday. Joyce’s ruling was made the same day Piercy appeared before the director of the Missouri Department of Public Safety, who is deciding whether the former trooper’s peace officer license should be revoked. No timeframe has been provided for a decision on the licensing issue.

Ellingson’s father argued at the licensing hearing that Piercy should be barred from working in law enforcement. Later in the day upon returning to Iowa, he said he was “shocked and upset” by Joyce’s ruling. Ellingson’s family has received a $9 million settlement from the state and won a lawsuit in which a judge found that the patrol violated the state’s open records law by not handing over some information or delaying the release of other documents.

Tim Van Ronzelen, Piercy’s attorney, declined to comment.