The Yolo County Sheriff”s Office is continuing its investigation into the shooting death by a Woodland Police officer of a 26-year-old Woodland man who had taken a woman hostage at gunpoint.

Brandon Lee Macias Jimenez — who was allegedly brandishing a handgun while holding an apparent hostage — was shot by the officer early Friday morning.

Woodland police are not releasing the name of the shooting officer at this time, whose life has been threatened, said Sgt. Brett Hancock. The name won”t be released until the investigation into the threat is complete, he added. New rulings by the state Supreme Court require officers involved in shootings to be identified, unless their life has been threatened.

In a related incident, on Sunday, police responded to the area of Rico”s Pizza where a car wash had been organized to help cover funeral expenses for Jimenez. Around 2:30 p.m., Yolo Dispatchers were told about 20 people were in a “verbal altercation,” Hancock said.

But by the time officers had arrived, those fighting had “pretty much dispersed,” Hancock said, and people still around were of little help when it came to identifying a reason for the argument.

Meanwhile, police are working to see if there is a connection between Friday”s fatal shooting, and another shooting that occurred a few hours earlier on Thursday night.

According to Hancock, an unidentified person shot three rounds in the vicinity of McKinley Avenue and Saunders Way near Lincoln Manor Apartments around 10:40 p.m.

Police recovered some shell casings at the scene and a possible suspect has been identified, Hancock said, adding that the gang unit is still investigating the incident and any possible connection to Jimenez.

The incident that left Jimenez dead began at 1:56 a.m. at the Quik Stop Market, 1400 E. Main St., Friday. Police responded to the scene but the suspect had fled the area on foot while allegedly holding a woman hostage, it was reported.

Responding officers searched the area and found Jimenez and a woman on Thomas Street at the intersection of Echo Place.

Attempts to talk with the Jimenez failed. He refused to let the woman go, holding a gun to her head.

An officer shot Jimenez to protect the hostage, officials said.

Jimenez was declared dead at the scene by medical personnel at 2:14 a.m.

Neither the hostage nor the officers were injured during the incident.

The Yolo County District Attorney”s office is assisting with the Sheriff”s Department”s investigation.

Contact Elizabeth Kalfsbeek at (530) 406-6232.