Perhaps Harold Murphy didn't want to go back to jail, and was willing to fight to the death to avoid it.

With a warrant for his arrest outstanding, and stints in jail and prison in his past, Murphy decided to run when Rapid City police pulled him over while he was riding an ATV without lights on West Main Street about 11:30 p.m. Wednesday.

Police say Murphy, 35, pulled into the Clock Tower Gardens apartment complex, ditched his vehicle and fled on foot after officer Jerrell Lewellen tried to pull him over just east of Sheridan Lake Road.

When Murphy ran, a second officer, Lucas Lang, tackled him a short distance away. As the two wrestled on the ground, police say Murphy pulled out a gun and started firing. No one was hit.

But to end the threat, police say officer Lewellen shot Murphy at close range, killing him. "At the time of the actual shots that were fired from Officer Lewellen, he was in very close contact with the suspect," Interim Police Chief Karl Jegeris said Thursday.

The shooting marked the first fatal shooting of a suspect by police in Rapid City since 2011, when police killed a young man who had just shot and killed two other officers near Anamosa and Greenbriar streets.

The officers involved in Wednesday night's shooting were not injured, and were placed on paid leave.

"This was a very disturbing and violent incident and we are extremely thankful that our officers are safe and that they were able to keep the community safe," Jegeris said at a press conference Thursday morning. "We had our cages rattled last night."

The fight with officers was not the first brush with the law for Murphy, a Rapid City resident whose records show had a history of drug use and who suffered from anxiety and paranoia. On his Facebook page, a prominent photo shows a shirtless Murphy at a construction site, glaring while thrusting his middle finger at the camera.

Among his past criminal charges, Murphy had been convicted of simple assault, disorderly conduct and false impersonation in 1997. Also that year, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for a Rapid City stabbing, court records show.

"That was his first felony," said Pennington County Chief Deputy State's Attorney Lara Roetzel. "He was in and out several times on parole."

Murphy then pleaded guilty to being a felon in possession of a firearm in 2008 after he was stopped by Box Elder police in 2007. When officers searched the vehicle, they found a .357-caliber revolver under the driver's seat. He was handed 36 months of supervised release.

Murphy violated his release terms twice and was subsequently sentenced to a year in federal prison, according to Roetzel.

She said he currently had a no-bond bench warrant stemming from a 2011 simple assault conviction. He faced a 360-day prison sentence if he had been taken into custody, Roetzel said.

Court records also state that he also suffered from paranoia and was an admitted methamphetamine user.

"There is no doubt in my mind that this subject intended to do whatever it took to flee our officers, including attempting to kill a Rapid City police officer," Jegeris said at the conference.

The number of shots fired, whether drugs or alcohol were involved, and the type of gun Murphy fired were not released by police pending an investigation that Jegeris said could take 30 days.

"I don't have those fine details but I expect those to be available soon from the South Dakota Division of Criminal Investigation," said Jegeris, named interim just a week ago.

One resident said he heard at least half a dozen shots fired during the fight. Allen Comp, 54, and his wife were heading to bed at the Clock Tower Garden apartments when he heard the gunfire outside of the complex. At first, he thought the shots came from nearby Camp Rapid.

"The guard camp is just right over there," Comp said. "I didn't think they would be shooting at night."

About a block away from the apartments, Clock Tower Lounge manager Kelly Payne had no idea a man had been shot and killed Wednesday night when his bar was packed for karaoke. "All I know is that there were more cops than I thought were in this town," Payne said.