Advertisement DA: Trooper justified shooting man armed with pellet gun who aimed weapon at him Off-duty state trooper Brian Knirnschild shot Kristopher Barkus in Butler Township Share Copy Link Copy

The Butler County district attorney says an off-duty Pennsylvania State Police trooper was justified in shooting and killing a neighbor, 25-year-old Butler Township resident Kris Barkus, who showed up outside the trooper's home and pointed a gun at the trooper and then at his own head.Investigators later learned that the weapon, which looked like a handgun, was an air-powered pellet gun.VIDEO: Watch Bob Mayo's report"If he had waited to see what the next move was of Mr. Barkus, he could have been dead and his family could have been dead," District Attorney Richard Goldinger said Tuesday.Al Lindsay, an attorney for Barkus' family, said the family is very upset and believes the situation didn't have to end that way. "The family is disappointed. They believe the truth has not come out about what happened that evening in Butler Township," he said."Our position is it was not suicide by cop, it was not suicide at all. This is a young man who was trying to seek help. He had had some mental struggles," said Lindsay."The state police believe that it was a 'suicide by cop' and there is nothing that I have seen to think otherwise. His (Barkus') actions just don't make sense," said the DA.Barkus had been involved in an incident at Trooper Brian Knirnschild's home on September Drive in May, and when he arrived there on June 6, Knirnschild ordered him to leave.The district attorney said the trooper acted to defend his home and family."He has a split second to make a decision: Am I going to wait to see what this guy's next move is, or am I going to protect myself or my children, who are feet away in a window? So he had a split-second decision to make and he made it," said Goldinger.Lindsay isn't ruling out a civil suit against the trooper or state police and he questions the handling of the investigation."We have to realize that they are investigating one of their own. And we believe that there are certain facts that were not thoroughly developed by the state police and therefore the district attorney," said Lindsay. "We would have hoped for a more thorough investigation by an independent agency."State police answered to that claim, saying there were two simultaneous probes of the incident -- one by crime investigators and a second by police internal affairs. The two investigations "run parallel and ensure that everything is done properly," said Lt. Thomas Dubovi, of the state police barracks in Butler."There's nobody out here risking their job or doing anything improper. We did a thorough investigation and I'll stand by that investigation," said Dubovi, who noted state police have more resources for the job than any local police department.The DA agrees."It was a thorough investigation for a scenario that only lasted a matter of minutes. It was an unbiased investigation. I am completely convinced of that. They had to investigate one of their own and I believe they did that thoroughly, independently of who they were investigating," said Goldinger.The district attorney acknowledges that some details are disputed by Barkus' brother, Bobby, who was a witness to the incident."Bobby Barkus stated that his brother never pointed the weapon at the trooper but rather only pointed it at (his own) head when the trooper opened fire," Goldinger said.But the DA says that even if the brother's account is correct, the trooper's actions were still justifiable.Lindsay acknowledges that Kris Barkus had left his home minutes earlier, saying that he was going to jump off a bridge -- a warning that prompted his family to call 911.Barkus' family acknowledged previously that the young man had mental health issues and took medication for depression. But Lindsay says Barkus was not suicidal when he was at the trooper's home and was seeking help."He was desperately trying to save his own life as he was being transported to the hospital," said Lindsay.Knirnschild recently returned to active duty after having been on paid administrative leave. State police said he was not available for comment.Bobby Barkus declined to comment when contacted by Pittsburgh's Action News 4 and said the family was referring all questions to Lindsay.