SPECIAL TO THE TIMES

Two suspects died in a shootout with police in Ontario that began with a routine traffic stop by a rookie officer, detectives said Monday.

Det. Mike Macias gave the following account of Sunday’s shootout:



For the record: FOR THE RECORD

Los Angeles Times Wednesday February 6, 2002 Home Edition Main News Part A Page 2 A2 Desk 1 inches; 32 words Type of Material: Correction

Ontario shooting--Photographs of Ontario police officers looking for a suspect last week were mistakenly published with a story in Tuesday’s California section about a shootout involving Ontario police that occurred Sunday.



As soon as the suspects’ car came to a halt, passenger Carlos Omar Meza, 23, got out and aimed a sawed-off, 12-gauge shotgun at the officer, who was armed with a pistol. Both men opened fire, and the 36-year-old driver was slain in the cross-fire.

Advertisement

Then, as the 23-year-old officer continued firing, Meza jumped into the officer’s patrol car and drove off, straight into the path of another police car.

The backup officer said, “Oh my God, that’s not a cop.”

The officer, a 40-year-old veteran, fired at Meza, who lost control of the car and crashed a few blocks away. The suspect then grabbed the police shotgun from the car and fled on foot.

A third Ontario patrolman spotted Meza in front of an apartment complex. When the suspect pointed his shotgun at the officer, the officer opened fire, killing Meza, Macias said.

The identities of the three Ontario officers have not been released.

The gun battle led down a block where a group of children were taking part in a birthday party.

“I heard a whole bunch of shots and I thought they were firecrackers,” said 13-year-old Jerry Garcia. “I heard a policeman screaming. I heard gunshots. I got scared, so I just went home.”

Advertisement

Oscar Ochoa, 11, showed where a bullet dented the top of his father’s van. Bullets also splintered a door in the apartment complex.

Paramedics tried to revive Meza, but he died at Doctors’ Hospital in Montclair at 6 p.m. Sunday, San Bernardino County coroner’s officials said.

The driver, whose identity has not been released, died at Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton about two hours after the shootout.

The driver was shot in the head, but police do not know whether the fatal round came from Meza’s shotgun or from the officer’s semiautomatic handgun.

Both suspects had criminal backgrounds, police said.

Meza, a resident of Pomona, pleaded guilty on Sept. 24, 1998, to a charge of making terrorist threats.

A charge of assault with a deadly weapon was dropped, according to court officials. He was sentenced to probation, and given a suspended three year prison term.

On Feb. 1, 2001, Meza admitted violating his probation and was sent to state prison. He was paroled on Sept. 13, then rearrested on Oct. 27 for violating his parole. He was released again on Nov. 1.

His criminal history goes back to 1993. He has been convicted of felony charges for possession of a firearm and unlawful sex with a minor, Macias said. He also was arrested on suspicion of beating a child, but the case was dismissed.

Details of the driver’s record were not immediately available.