<p>Knoxville Police Officer Thomas Turner, left, shares a light moment with fellow officers as Officer Derrick White, center, is interviewed by media at the Knoxville Civic Coliseum ballroom in Knoxville on Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2014. White received a Purple Heart Award and Medal of Valor for injuries sustained in the line-of-duty, and Turner received a Medal of Merit for exceptional heroism. (ADAM LAU/NEWS SENTINEL)</p>

SHARE Knoxville Police Chief David Rausch, left, shakes hands with Officer Derrick White, center, as Officer Thomas Turner stands by after the two were honored in a ceremony at the Knoxville Civic Coliseum ballroom in Knoxville on Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2014. White received a Purple Heart Award and Medal of Valor, and Turner received a Medal of Merit. (ADAM LAU/NEWS SENTINEL) Newly-minted Knoxville Police Captain Ronald Green, left, has his badge pinned by son Hunter Green, center, as daughter Kyra Green, right, looks on at the Knoxville Civic Coliseum ballroom in Knoxville on Tuesday, Sept. 9, 2014. Ronald Green was officially promoted after serving on the Knoxville police force since Jan. 1993. (ADAM LAU/NEWS SENTINEL)

By Hayes Hickman of the Knoxville News Sentinel

A Knoxville Police Department officer wounded in a June shootout has become the agency’s first member to receive the Medal of Valor, KPD’s highest honor.

Officer Derrick White, 26, was presented with both the Medal of Valor and the Purple Heart Award at a departmental ceremony Wednesday. He was joined by his partner, Officer Thomas Turner, 27, who was awarded the Medal of Merit.

“This is the first that I know of, of our awarding the Medal of Valor,” Knoxville Police Chief David Rausch said as he made the presentations. “Derrick, it’s something to be proud of.”

Also recognized Wednesday was 21-year KPD veteran Ron Green, who was promoted to captain.

White and Turner, both of whom have been with KPD since July 2011, were involved in June 7 gunbattle in East Knoxville that left White’s attacker dead.

They had responded to an early morning domestic assault after the suspect, 31-year-old Lonnie Flemming, beat his ex-girlfriend and then shot at her and her friend as they tried to call police, according to police.

White chased him down to a creek off the 800 block of Graves Street in East Knoxville. A struggle ensued and Flemming fired at White — his protective vest stopped one round. A second shot shattered his watch and pierced his arm.

White shot back. Turner came to his partner’s aid and also returned fire, just as Flemming was reaching for a second gun, police said.

“Unfortunately this individual lost his life that day. But these were his choices,” Rausch said. “There’s no telling what would have happened had this individual been able to continue his tirade.”

White was able to return to duty three weeks ago. He was quick to give credit to Turner and his fellow officers who turned out to congratulate him Wednesday.

“If it weren’t for these guys I wouldn’t be here. I learned everything from a lot of the guys on my squad,” White said. “I love patrol. ... There’s nowhere else I want to be right now.”