Todd Brown shielded himself from the heavy rain Tuesday afternoon inside a bus shelter at the Cromwell Station light rail station and talked about the shooting.

Brown said that on Saturday he was standing nearby when a homeless woman began yelling at his pregnant wife and daughter when they tried to sit on a bench with her.

Advertisement

A Maryland Transit Administration police officer, he said, tried to calm the woman down, only to be punched in the face and wrestled to her knees.

Brown said he tried to pull the woman off the officer, and then watched as the officer repeatedly warned the woman to back away - then finally shot her.

Advertisement

"You've got to have a problem to be like that," Brown said. "There's something not right with you."

Days after Angela Beatrice Randolph, 38, died from wounds suffered in the confrontation, people who knew her said she was homeless and may have been mentally ill.

It was the second violent death of a homeless person in Glen Burnie in less than a month.

Mario Berninzoni, director of the Arundel House of Hope, said he last saw Randolph on June 2, days before the shooting. Since early 2013, Berninzoni said, Randolph had visited the day center in Glen Burnie to take showers, pick up snacks and use a mail service for homeless people.

"Some of the staff thought she had mental health issues," he said. "I don't think she was getting much support. I think she had anger issues. She'd want stuff right away, yelling and getting upset if things didn't go her way."

Michael Beavers Jr. said he also was at the light rail station when Randolph was shot. Beavers recognized her from the Arundel House of Hope, where he also uses the program's services.

"She was real quiet," he said. "She would come in and do her business and leave."

On Saturday, Brown was waiting with Stephanie Williams and their children at the light rail station for a ride. They were headed to a birthday party. Randolph confronted the family, saying she hated young people.

Advertisement

"She was cussing us out," Brown said. "She didn't want no one to sit next to her."

Williams walked to MTA Officer Tracy Turpin, who sitting in her car, and asked her to help.

Turpin approached Randolph, asking if there was any problem, then repeatedly asked for identification.

Brown said that Randolph quickly became frustrated, punched the officer, grabbed her hair and pushed her to the ground. The officer, he said, was bent over on her knees, with Randolph on her.

Brown said he tried to pull Randolph off, but she was too strong.

"I was the only citizen who helped," Brown said. "Everyone else was pulling out their phones."

Advertisement

Turpin warned Randolph several times before pulling her weapon out, Brown said. Turpin then made it clear she was pulling the safety.

"Once I seen she did that, I jumped off the woman," Brown said. The officer "warned her so many times."

The officer shot Randolph in the upper leg, the only place she could aim at, Brown said. Others at the station ran.

"Everything happened within five minutes," he said.

Randolph was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead, county police spokesman Lt. T.J. Smith said. Anne Arundel police are investigating the shooting.

Turpin, a three-year veteran of the MTA force, had injuries that were not life-threatening. She was taken to the hospital and released.

Advertisement

Turpin has been placed on administrative duty while the case is being investigated.

Randolph's death follows that of Keith Boggs, a homeless man who had been coming to the Day and Resource Center since 2010. He was killed May 20 in a dispute with Joseph Eugene Wright, 44.

Both men lived in a tent encampment near the light rail station. Berninzoni said Randolph may have been living in the same area.

Although some at Arundel House of Hope said Randolph could be difficult, others said she merely talked to herself, never causing trouble.

Brian James, a staff member at House of Hope, said he had never seen Randolph do anything bad.

"She was always in good spirits," he said.