Ron Abernathy 2

Chief Deputy Ron Abernathy said a Tuscaloosa County Sheriff's deputy shot and killed a 48-year-old Moundville man during a gunfight in Northport Monday night. (Stephen Dethrage | AL.com)

(Picasa)

-- A Tuscaloosa County Sheriff's deputy shot and killed a 48-year-old man Monday night during a gunfight with the suspect, who was armed with a shotgun.

Chief Deputy Rob Abernathy said Tuesday afternoon that the incident began around 10 p.m. Monday night, when the sheriff's office received calls reporting an armed man shooting into a Northport home on Shadyhill Road.

48-year-old Roylee Vell Dixon was shot and killed Monday night after he allegedly opened fire on a Tuscaloosa County Sheriff's deputy.

Earlier that evening,

Roylee Vell Dixon

, a 48-year-old Moundville man, had visited the residence and gotten into a fight with the man of the house, who asked him to leave.

Abernathy said Dixon left, retrieved a shotgun and returned to the home and demanded that the other man come outside and face him. When the man refused, Dixon allegedly opened fire from outside and shot at least two shells through the door before forcing it in and entering the home, where two adults, a young adult and two children were inside.

The gunshots prompted the calls to the sheriff's office, and a nearby deputy was on the scene within minutes. Abernathy said Dixon moved through the house, continuing to fire the shotgun, and when the deputy arrived the five occupants of the home were fleeing through whatever means of escape they could find.

Dixon then stepped outside and encountered the deputy, who was in uniform and driving a marked patrol car. The deputy identified himself as law enforcement and demanded that Dixon to drop his weapon. He refused and began shooting at the deputy, who returned fire and struck him.

The house was in an area of multiple jurisdictions, and Abernathy said other deputies as well as officers from the Northport and Tuscaloosa Police Departments arrived on the scene to investigate and treat Dixon for his injuries.

Eventually, paramedics arrived and took Dixon to DCH Regional Medical Center, where he succumbed to his wounds and died.

Abernathy said members of the Tuscaloosa County Metro Homicide Unit will investigate the original altercation leading up to Dixon opening fire on the deputy, and the Alabama Bureau of Investigation will examine the deputy's decision to shoot Dixon as part of a standard probe into an officer-involved shooting.

Lt. Kip Hart, the assistant commander of the homicide unit, said initial investigations did not find a history of violence in Dixon's past.