Two Colton police officers who fatally shot an armed suspect in the head during a struggle were justified in their use of force as they tried to defend themselves and others at a Colton bus terminal in June 2014, a San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office investigation found.

Colton police had gone to the El Paso-Los Angeles Limousine Express bus terminal on East Steel Road just before 8 a.m. June 10, 2014 after a woman called 911 to report seeing a man with a gun, according to a District Attorney’s Office memo released Thursday, March 17.

Officers found Michael Vincent Gutierrez, a 31-year-old transient, inside. At first he followed commands to place his hands above his head, but as an officer attempted to take control of him, Gutierrez “immediately yanked his hands toward his waistband and began fighting the officers as he moved toward the front door of the business to escape,” according to the statement.

Sgt. Charles McCann grabbed Gutierrez from behind in a bear hung and restrained his hands as the suspect wrapped his hand around the handle of the gun – a loaded Walther P38 .9mm handgun – but the suspect “exhibited extraordinary strength and was able to drag the officers outside,” according to the memo.

The suspect continued to fight with McCann and Officer Matthew Collins as Sgt. Alan Koahou arrived. Koahou told DA’s investigators that he struck the suspect in the face several times hoping to gain control, but the punches did not faze the suspect. The officers warned Gutierrez he might be shot if he didn’t comply.

Koahou told Collins to shoot Gutierrez, which he did, in the head.

But because both Gutierrez and McCann fell to the ground, Koahou believed the suspect had shot McCann in the stomach, so Koahou fired a shot at Gutierrez’s head, according to the memo. Gutierrez was pronounced dead at the scene.

Authorities learned later that Gutierrez was on parole for a 2002 murder conviction and had a parole violation warrant for his arrest.

The San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department investigated the officer-involved shooting.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9075 or gwesson@pressenterprise.com