BAYONNE — A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed by the family of a man who died in 2014 after a Bayonne police officer used pepper spray to break up a fight, affirming that the officer acted justifiably and did not use excessive force during the incident.

The lawsuit was filed by Jamie and Maureen Williams, the wife and daughter of Peter Lee Williams, 51. He died after collapsing outside an apartment building on Avenue C following the incident on June 10, 2014. The plaintiffs sought compensatory and punitive damages, attorneys' fees and other relevant fees.

The lawsuit stemmed from Police Officer George Ponik’s response to a large fight among high school students inside the vestibule of an apartment building at 403 Ave. C. Ponik discharged the pepper spray into the air, above the group, after ordering those involved to stop.

Williams' family has contended that he was trying to break up the fight when the pepper spray was used and in 2015 filed a lawsuit in Newark federal court alleging the pepper spray was a contributing factor to his death.

But U.S. District Judge John Michael Vazquez granted summary judgment for the city on Jan. 11, writing that Ponik did not use excessive force and “acted in an objectively reasonable manner when he used the pepper spray."

Jonathan D. Clemente, the Williams family attorney, expressed disappointment in the decision of the trial court, but added that the family is “absolutely filing an appeal” with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

Vazquez also noted in his decision that Ponik had no prior complaints of excessive force lodged against him. According to the NJ Advance Media database of use of force reports Ponik used force eight times between 2012 and 2016.

“Courts have found an officer’s deployment of pepper spray into a rowdy crowd to not run afoul of the Constitution,” Vazquez wrote.

Additionally, Vazquez noted that Williams' autopsy report showed his manner of death was “natural” and the cause of death was “severe coronary disease due to atherosclerotic and hypertensive cardiovascular disease, with cocaine use and mild obesity as contributory causes.”

Bayonne Law Director Jay Coffey III said that the city is “not happy with what happened with Mr. Williams, but the judge has found that the city of Bayonne and the individuals that were named defendants were not at all fault in connection with his death.”

"It was a tragic situation that, according to the judge's decision, was not the fault of the city or its officers," he added.

The Williams family lawsuit is one of several high profile legal cases involving officers who used pepper spray.

In November 2014, Bayonne resident Brandon Walsh filed a federal lawsuit against the department, alleging Police Officer Domenico Lillo and other officers “unlawfully” pepper-sprayed him and his mother in their home.

Lillo later pleaded guilty to charges stemming from that incident and an unrelated crime, and is serving 42 months in prison. The city, meanwhile, settled the lawsuit for at least $1.5 million. The Jersey Journal had to fight the city in court for a year to obtain details of the settlement agreement.

Another city resident, Jason Rios, sued the department over an Aug. 29, 2010 incident in which he said police pepper-sprayed him, knocked him out and arrested him for no reason. The city settled that case as well.

Comparatively, the city police department’s use of pepper spray is not as frequent as other municipalities, according to the NJ Advance Media database of state use-of-force data.

According to the lawsuit, the Bayonne police utilized a pepper-spray policy that directed officers that “use of pepper spray is preferred over physical use of force as a means to reduce the risk of injury to civilians and police in confrontation and arrest situations.”

The city provided The Jersey Journal a heavily-redacted copy of the BPD’s current pepper-spray policy on Thursday.

“(Pepper spray) shall only be used as instructed. Any use of the agent, which is not justified, will subject the user to disciplinary action," according to the policy. "(Pepper spray) shall not be used to harass, humiliate, or intimidate any person.”