Two Portland police officers were almost ready to clear a June 12 call about a strong-arm robbery in Southeast Portland involving a transient who said he just wanted his bike back.

East Precinct Officers Robert Brown and Matthew Nilsen were talking to the suspect near the Southeast Foster Road intersection with the Springwater Corridor trail as they watched the alleged victim go to retrieve his bike from a wooded area off the trail.

The suspect, Nicholas Glendon Davis, 24, asked if he could leave, and Brown told him no, that he wanted him to wait until the victim had his bike. Moments later, Brown said he saw the victim push his bike up and off the trail.

"So I'm thinking everything is going to be all right,'' Brown testified, according to a 171-page transcript of the grand jury review of the fatal encounter released Friday.

Then, out of the blue, police said Davis, who had been calm and relaxed but not making much sense as he talked, suddenly became agitated. He pulled a metal object from beneath his clothes, according to grand jury testimony.

"I'm thinking he's got a gun. I see something metal,'' Brown testified. "So I back up and I remember telling him 'don't do it!' as I back up. I know that I have to get distance from this guy.''

Nicholas Davis

Brown drew his gun. But as he backed up, Brown stumbled and fell. He said he thought he hit a pole, but a homicide detective testified that she believes he tripped over wires from a pole.

"And I fell full ... full everything on my elbow,'' Brown recalled. He said he heard the sound of metal hitting the ground and realized that he was now pointing his gun right at Nilsen.

"After that, I don't know if I got up. I don't know if I was on a knee. I don't know if I was still laying down. But I know that at this point, (the suspect) has a crowbar ... and it's a big crowbar,'' Brown testified. "And he's coming right up on me.''

Brown, a 15-year bureau veteran, fired two rounds from his 9mm handgun at Davis.

"I'm thinking this guy is ... he's going to kill me,'' Brown said. "And it was either I stop him with this or he's going to kill me...I just never had to do this. Never wanted to do it."

"It happened so fast,'' Brown said. "And it's like ... it's ... it's survival.''

Nilsen, who said he drew his gun when he saw Davis pull a crowbar out of nowhere, also had backed up and yelled at Davis to "drop it!'' Nilsen said he saw Brown go down.

"He's far enough away so I know he hasn't been hit,'' Nilsen testified. Nilsen estimated that Brown was about 7 to 8 feet away from Davis. Nilsen stood further back.

Nilsen, an 18-year bureau veteran, said Davis lifted the crowbar up "like he's going to swing.''

"And so when he raises it up, I come down on my sights and I'm thinking, oh, (expletive) – I'm going to have to shoot this guy,'' Nilsen testified.

Portland police released this photo of the crowbar located at the scene.

But before Nilsen could pull the trigger, he said he heard two gunshots. He then saw Davis turn away, stumble up the path and then down into some bushes.

"I don't know what it was about him, whether it was a look on his face and his actions, but I felt that he wanted to hurt us or kill us,'' Nilsen testified. "Officer Brown was down on the ground, and I want to say this is 7, 8 feet maybe. But he could easily approach.''

Davis, a 6-foot-3, 230-pound man, was found lying face down in a wooded area off the trail. He died of a gunshot wound to the chest, an autopsy found. Another bullet was found beneath his body. It had traveled through his left forearm, according to the testimony.

A 3-foot long crowbar was found just off the trail, police testified.

The man who wanted his bike back, identified by police as Loren Kurth, did not show up to testify before the grand jury. Police said he was homeless.

When officers first arrived to the call about 6:20 a.m., Kurth told them he had gone to the Springwater Corridor area to find some scrap metal, when a strange man suddenly popped out in front of him and yelled at him. They got into a scuffle and the man chased Kurth away, off his bike.

Several motorists heading to work had seen the two officers talking to a man and then heard gunshots.

Laura Mitar, riding to work westbound on Southeast Foster Road, said the two officers looked like they were having a relaxed conversation with a man when the man grabbed what looked like a golf club and held it in the air.

When Brown first encountered Davis, he got his name and ran it in the police computer in his car to see if he had a warrant. A misdemeanor warrant came back for third-degree theft. Brown said as he was talking to Davis, he mentioned to him that he had a "little baby misdemeanor warrant'' that wasn't a big deal, advised him to take care of it but that he could be on his way once Kurth got his bike.

Police said Davis wasn't making sense as they talked to him, saying he was Russian and that all Russians need to be under surveillance. Both officers thought he was either suffering from a mental illness or under the influence of drugs.

Nilsen did a voluntary walk-through of the scene on the day of the shooting with detectives. Brown wasn't interviewed until six days later.

"Is it characteristic in officer-involved shootings for the officer involved to wait a few days before interview?'' asked a grand juror.

"I think each incident is different,'' homicide Detective Michele Michaels replied.

A Multnomah County grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing by the officers involved. An internal police review is now proceeding.

--Maxine Bernstein