FLINT, MI -- The suspect in a fatal police chase allegedly told investigators he had smoked crack cocaine just before a police pursuit that reached speeds upward of 120 mph, according to police testimony.

Michigan State Police troopers testified during a preliminary exam that Davonte Deshaun Grover told investigators that he had smoked crack cocaine just prior to leading troopers on a June 12 chase that ended in a crash that killed 42-year-old Tiphanie Fayette Mayfield.

The testimony sheds light on an ongoing investigation that state police officials have shared few details on.

The roughly three-minute chase began in the residential neighborhood near Fulton Street and Eldridge Avenue before spilling out onto Martin Luther King Avenue, troopers testified. The chase ended on the residential streets near Hurley Medical Center when Grover allegedly crashed near Mackin Road and Caldwell Avenue.

Trooper Thomas Dhooghe, who was behind the wheel of the state police cruiser, testified that the lights and sirens on the cruiser were activated but that no dash-cam video of the chase exists because the memory card for the in-car camera was full and could not record.

Dhoogle said he and his partner, Steven Fisher, were patrolling in Flint when they allegedly witnessed Grover fail to slow down at a yield sign and cross the center line of the road near Fulton Street and Eldridge Avenue.

The troopers testified that they activated their cruiser's lights and sirens in an attempt to stop Grover, but he fled. The troopers said they pursued Grover for roughly three miles speeds in excess of 100 mph before the chase came to an abrupt end when Grover crashed into two vehicles at Mackin Road and Caldwell Avenue.

"We got up to 120 catching up to the vehicle," Fisher testified. Fisher said he believed Grover was traveling roughly 110 mph.

Fisher said speeds were roughly 80 mph when Grover crashed into the car driven by Mayfield and a third vehicle. The troopers' cruiser then rear-ended Grover's vehicle.

Mayfield's husband, Rockie Mayfield, was injured in the crash but has since been released from the hospital. Another woman was critically injured in the crash and has been hospitalized for roughly a month.

Michigan State Police Detective Jeffrey Rodgers testified that Grover admitted to using heroin earlier the day of the chase and crack cocaine just prior to the pursuit.

Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton has said his officer is awaiting results of a toxicology exam.

Grover's attorney, Kenneth Karasick, was unavailable for comment on the case.

Grover, 22, was bound over to Genesee Circuit Court July 7 on 15 charges, including a count of second-degree murder for Mayfield's death.

Grover faces the possibility of life in prison if convicted.

Mayfield was the third person killed in Flint this year resulting from a pursuit involving the Michigan State Police and the first of two women who were killed within one month of each other.

James Thompson, 75, died after a Feb. 13 crash near Martin Luther King Avenue and Newall Street.

Troopers were attempting a stop for a vehicle having tinted windows when the driver of the vehicle, 29-year-old Aaron Joseph Johnson, allegedly fled. Police say Johnson collided with Thompson's vehicle that was headed eastbound on Newall.

Johnson, of Montrose Township, is currently awaiting trial on charges for first-degree fleeing, operating a vehicle with a suspended causing death and operating under the influence causing death.

Jacqueline Nichols was killed July 3 when a state police cruiser struck her vehicle as a trooper chased a suspect for a traffic violation near Pierson Road and North Street.

The fleeing suspect in that case has not been arrested.