Story by STEVE MAYES | smayes@oregonian.com

Travis Utley left home driving an old, unreliable Chevy Blazer that belonged to an acquaintance.

In a life filled with poor choices, it was the worst decision he ever made, one of his brothers said.

Utley headed from Lebanon to Portland where he had an appointment at the VA Hospital. He spent the night in Milwaukie at the home of friends.

On the morning of June 11, 2014, he left the house apparently headed to the hospital. He would die an hour later -- shot twice in the back during what began as a routine stop for a minor traffic violation.

His family didn't protest the shooting. There was no public outcry. Race wasn't an issue. A grand jury found that a Milwaukie officer had acted with justification to protect himself.

POLICE SHOOTINGS 2014

Travis Utley was one of five people killed in seven police shootings in the Portland area in 2014.

But of seven shootings by police last year in the Portland metro area, Utley's case was easily the most inexplicable.

All the other cases involved men and women who shot at police, had weapons or posed an immediate threat.

But Utley, 38, was unarmed. He took off when police tried to pull him over even though he wasn't in big trouble. His erratic behavior presented a puzzle to the three cops who crossed his path.

The Oregonian/OregonLive reviewed police investigative reports and spoke with Utley's family and friends to unravel what happened and why.

Officers involved in the shooting declined to be interviewed for this story. A Milwaukie police spokesman said the department wouldn't comment on the case because Utley's father could file a lawsuit against the city.

The department doesn't equip its officers with body cameras and its patrol cars don't have dash-mounted cameras.

Other than the police officers, there are no witnesses to Utley's shooting.

Milwaukie Police Officer Billy Wells and his K-9 partner, Shaka.

The chase

Around 7:45 a.m. under an overcast sky, Officer Billy Wells was patrolling Milwaukie's northern edge, where the city butts up to Portland.

After 17 years with Milwaukie police, Wells knew the area cold.

When he spotted a rusty Chevy Blazer parked along Southeast Johnson Creek Boulevard, Wells ran the license plate as he drove by, something he routinely does 100 times on a 10-hour shift.

The Blazer's owner had a suspended license. When Wells headed back to the parked SUV, it was gone. On a hunch, Wells went north toward Portland.

There was the Blazer, making an illegal left turn into the driveway of a business.

TIMELINE

7:49 a.m.:

Milwaukie Police Officer Billy Wells pulls Travis Utley over and tells a police dispatcher he is doing a traffic stop.

7:50 a.m.:

Wells asks for a cover vehicle. Milwaukie Sgt. Luke Strait and Officer Zane Odem start driving toward Wells.

7:52 a.m.:

Wells announces that he fired a Taser at Utley, who drove away. After a half-mile, Utley's Chevy Blazer sputters to a stop on Southeast Johnson Creek Boulevard, where he encounters Strait. Wells and Odem arrive and try unsuccessfully to break the passenger side window of Utley's car.

7:54 a.m.:

Utley restarts his car and heads west on Johnson Creek Boulevard, running a stop sign. Wells receives permission to use a tactical maneuver to spin Utley's car 180 degrees and bring it to a stop. Wells succeeds. Utley immediately rams Strait's car then goes into reverse and heads toward Wells, who is on foot.

7:55 a.m.:

"Shots fired," Wells says over the police radio.

7:55 a.m. to 8 a.m.:

The officers assess the scene then approach the SUV with guns drawn, unsure of Utley's condition. It becomes clear Utley has been shot. They remove him from the Blazer, place him on the sidewalk and begin emergency medical care.

8:01 a.m.:

Wells asks medical personnel to move up to the scene and attend to Utley.

8:45 a.m.:

Utley dies at OHSU Hospital.

Source: Portland Police Bureau investigation records

On went the overhead lights. Wells pulled the Blazer over.

Wells averages a dozen traffic stops a day. This one looked like trouble.

Utley slowly rolled to a stop.

Travis Utley

Is he going to run? Wells wondered. "He's trying to make a fight or flight decision," the officer's instinct told him, according to his interview with detectives who later investigated the case.

Utley leaned far to his right in the front seat and fumbled around. Hiding something? Reaching for a gun?

Wells called for backup.

About two miles away, Milwaukie police Sgt. Luke Strait heard the call and headed toward Wells.

Milwaukie motorcycle officer Zane Odem was on his way to work. He also started in Wells' direction from about a mile away.

Wells stood outside his patrol car door.

Show your hands, he told Utley.

"Why?"

"Because you're moving around a lot and it's freaking me out," Wells said. "Show me your hands."

"Hands are what's going to kill you," Wells would later tell a police investigator. "If I can see their hands ... I feel pretty confident (about) being able to approach somebody."

Wells cautiously stepped up to the Blazer.

Utley appeared pale and nervous, Wells later recalled. The officer sized him up as a meth user.

Utley kept glancing over his right shoulder "almost like he's looking for a way out," Wells said.

"I'm not the registered owner," Utley told him.

"I need to see your ID," Wells said.

Utley balked. "Why do I need to show you my ID," he said before providing his driver's license.

Wells called it in. He stood next to the Blazer, rather than returning to his car as he normally would.

"I didn't want to give him the opportunity to maybe retrieve that weapon I thought he was trying to conceal or to take off or do anything goofy," Wells said later.

The dispatcher relayed a police code telling Wells that Utley's driver's license was suspended and he was wanted on an arrest warrant. Utley faced charges in Linn County for failure to appear on a contempt of court case.

"You need to reach up and turn off your car and give me your keys," Wells told Utley. "I think you're going to do something stupid."

About two minutes had passed since Wells activated his overhead lights.

Wells now had his Taser out and pointed at Utley's left shoulder.

Wells repeated his order to hand over the keys and explained that he was concerned Utley would run.

"I no sooner finished the word 'run' and he's reaching up with his right hand and grabbed ahold of the shifter," Wells said. "That's when I pulled the trigger on the Taser."

The stun gun prongs hit Utley, but he was able to steer back on the road and break free of the Taser wires.

As Utley fled at speeds up to 50 mph, he headed directly toward Sgt. Strait.

The interior of the Chevy Blazer driven by Travis Utley.

'I'm gonna die here'

Strait, lights flashing and siren on, swerved to avoid colliding with Utley, who had circled back to Johnson Creek Boulevard.

Strait made a U-turn and joined the chase.

Utley slowed down, then stopped.

"There was some significant flailing around inside the car ... but I couldn't make any sense of it," Strait said. "I don't know if he's trying to get out of the car; if he's trying to hide things ... if he's trying to get something out of the back seat."

Utley looked frantic, Strait said.

A worker in a nearby dental office could see Utley. He appeared to "stashing something," Sandy Olsen told an investigator later that day.

Utley had a "freaked out face," Olsen said. "He looked like a meth addict."

Strait pulled the front of his car next to Utley's door to prevent him from bailing out.

By then, Wells and Odem had arrived. They tried but failed to break the passenger window.

Strait got out of his car, unholstered his gun and pointed it at the ground just below Utley's car door. "My line of thinking was this guy's not going to voluntarily comply," Strait said.

"Then somehow, he gets the vehicle started again," Strait said. "He revs it up, drops it into drive and squeals away from us."

"We scrambled back into our vehicles ... and took off after him," Strait said.

Wells was right behind Utley, followed by Strait and then Odem.

Utley's car sputtered through a curving section of Johnson Creek Boulevard. The slow-speed pursuit ended a few blocks later when Wells used a tactical maneuver to bump the rear of Utley's car and spin it 180 degrees.

Utley came to a stop a few feet away from the police cars, with Strait's car in front of him and Wells' car right behind him.

After Milwaukie police used a tactical maneuver to spin Travis Utley's SUV around, Utley again tried to elude officers. He rammed two police vehicles that tried to block his escape.

All three cops, guns drawn and approaching the Blazer on foot, ordered Utley to raise his hands.

"I'm thinking, 'This is it. This is where we take him into custody,'" Wells said.

Utley ignored their commands, they said. Instead, he gunned the engine and rammed Strait's car, then backed up toward Wells.

Wells said Utley looked back.

"He sees me. I see him. My gun is up, visible to him. The next thing I know, the car is coming back to me," Wells said.

"I don't remember at what point I made the decision to pull the trigger," Wells said.

"I have the recollection of, OK, I'm gonna die here. I'm actually gonna get run over here," Wells told investigators. "It was instinctive fire. I don't remember sighting it but I remember kind of looking over the top of my gun and pointing it at the back of the driver's seat."

Utley crashed into the left rear corner of Wells' car.

Wells fired twice into the back of the Blazer.

Odem also fired two rounds, shattering the Blazer's driver's side window.

Wells' bullets hit Utley in his back. Odem missed.

After Travis Utley was shot, he careened across Southeast Johnson Creek Boulevard, crashed through a fence and into a tree.Milwaukie Police Department

The officers took cover. They shouted at Utley to raise his hands. He did.

When it appeared Utley was unconscious, the officers moved forward.

Strait opened the driver's side door and checked for a pulse.

"I'm done," Utley told the cops.

The officers placed Utley face up on the sidewalk and began chest compressions. His left side was covered in blood.

At 8:01 a.m., medical workers took over.

Utley was taken to OHSU Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 8:45 a.m.

A contempt for authority

Utley had been in and out of trouble most of his life. Sometimes the problem was his attitude, sometimes drugs. He seesawed between sobriety and addiction, his family and friends say.

"Travis was a tough guy. He wasn't afraid of anything or anybody," said his uncle, Daren Utley. "He was one of those guys who would not back down from anything, right, wrong or whatever."

Travis Utley and his two brothers, Russell and Benjamin.

His brother, Russell Utley, said Travis didn't like cops and had had run-ins with the law, "but it didn't escalate out of control like this."

They'd grown up in Waterloo just south of Lebanon -- "a little green country town," Russell Utley said.

As boys, Travis and his younger brothers worked and played on their grandparents' 120-acre horse ranch. Hunting, fishing, swimming. "We could do whatever we wanted to do as long as we didn't get into trouble," Russell Utley said.

"As Travis got older, he had a hard time following the rules. Travis liked to make his own rules," his brother said. "In high school he was a great athlete, but he couldn't figure out how not to have discipline problems."

Travis Utley dropped out of Lebanon High School, got his GED and joined the Marines, his brother said.

"He knew he needed discipline," Russell Utley said.

The Marines certainly provided that.

"He was a different person after basic training," Russell Utley said. "He had a different way of carrying himself. He felt like he accomplished something."

Travis Utley's dream of a military career ended when he injured himself during training. He received a medical discharge in 1996 after a little more than a year in the Marines, Russell Utley said.

It was a loss he couldn't overcome. "He felt something had been taken from him," Russell Utley said.

Utley spent time in Alaska where he worked in construction, he was lead singer in a heavy metal band and became a self-taught yet skilled tattoo artist, his brother said.

He also was convicted on a drug charge and spent time in an Alaska prison. At the time of his death, Utley was wanted on a warrant in Alaska, where he faced charges of felony theft and several misdemeanors.

Travis Utley and his son, Malachi.

"Travis was into drugs. He would try to straighten himself out and he'd be all right then he'd slip back into it," his uncle said.

"He'd grown up with a contempt for authority," Daren Utley said.

Utley's mother would bail him out of trouble. "When she died, that get out of jail free card went away," his uncle said.

Meth, heroin, run-ins with police

Why Utley ran from Milwaukie police remains a mystery. But it wasn't out of character.

"I was shocked, but at the same time I wasn't really surprised by it," Daren Utley said. "He just kept going off the rails."

Travis Utley, shot twice in the back, died less than an hour later. Some of his discarded clothing marked the place where an emergency medical crew treated him before he was taken to OHSU Hospital.

When investigators searched Utley's body and the Blazer, they found no illegal drugs, stolen items, guns or weapons.

A toxicology test by the Oregon Medical Examiner's Office showed Utley had methamphetamine his system. The level was consistent with someone who recently had used the drug, said Alexander Garrard, clinical managing director of the Washington Poison Center and clinical assistant professor at University of Washington's School of Pharmacy.

"The elevated levels of methamphetamine, consistent with recent use, could have contributed to his erratic behavior," said Garrard, who reviewed the test results for The Oregonian/OregonLive.

Six months before he died, Utley was arrested twice on drug possession charges.

On Dec. 14, 2013, two state troopers were on foot patrol at a truck stop on Interstate 5 about five miles south of Wilsonville when they noticed a woman slumped over in the front seat of a car and saw a used syringe.

The woman said the car was hers but that Utley was driving it back to Lebanon from Portland.

When Utley returned from a nearby convenience store, he admitted he had syringes on him, the troopers said.

Utley started to run but tripped, according to a police report. He struggled as troopers tried to handcuff him. One of the troopers fired a Taser at him.

The troopers found a pill bottle in the car containing a quarter ounce of heroin. They arrested him on suspicion of heroin possession.

Utley told the troopers he thought the bottle was in his pocket and that's why he ran, the report said.

"He became angry with himself and said, 'So I got Tased for nothing,'" the report said.

Travis Blake Utley

Three days later, on Dec. 17, a trooper responded to a complaint about a silver Cadillac driving erratically on Interstate 5 near Albany.

When the trooper tried to pull Utley over, he sped up and made an illegal left turn into a Walmart parking lot. Once stopped, the trooper said Utley made "furtive movements," according to the report.

"I told Utley I wanted him to sit inside his car as he was making me nervous," the trooper said.

The trooper searched Utley and found drug paraphernalia, including uncapped syringes with liquid in them and scales that had drug residue on them.

He arrested Utley on suspicion of possessing heroin and meth.

Utley wasn't indicted in either case: There were problems with the search in Linn County and state police didn't provide documentation to the district attorney in Marion County, prosecutors said.

An officer's decision: Shoot or die

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1985 that police don't have a right to shoot someone simply because the person is fleeing.

A 1989 Supreme Court decision concluded that an officer's use of force must be viewed through the "perspective of a reasonable officer on scene rather than with the 20/20 vision of hindsight."

Oregon law allows the use of deadly physical force when it "is necessary to defend a peace officer or another person from the use or threatened imminent use of deadly physical force."

Five weeks after the shooting, a Clackamas County grand jury met for six hours. The panel heard from 10 witnesses and didn't indict Wells.

"The bottom line is, looking at it from Wells' point of view, is it reasonable for him to do what he did and is it reasonable for him to believe his life was in danger. The grand jury said, 'yes,'" said Deputy District Attorney Bill Golden.

"It happened so quickly that I don't think he had another option other than getting run over," said Golden, who presented the case to the grand jury.

YOUR VOICE

Share your thoughts and comments here.

He can't explain why Utley fled.

"I just know what the officers' statements were and what the evidence from the scene tells me," Golden said.

If Utley had been arrested that day, he probably would have been out of jail by now, said his uncle.

"I mourn Travis," Daren Utley said, "but if he'd obeyed the police he'd be here today."