A carjacking and chase in Seminole County ended with the suspect, now identified as Rolando Martinez, 28, dying in a crash.

Police say prior to the high-speed chase and crash, Martinez unsucessfully attempted to carjack one person, and then successfully carjacked a Domino's delivery truck and sideswiped another car.

According Sanford Police, Martinez initially tried to carjack a victim at a Kangaroo Express gas station on French Avenue in Sanford, but that victim fought the man off.

So Martinez found another victim, a Domino's delivery driver. He successfully stole the driver's truck around 5:30 p.m.



Police pursued the stolen truck through Sanford onto I-4. Miles later the truck got off on State Road 434 and sideswiped another car before crashing into a tree on West Highland Street near Douglas Avenue in Altamonte Springs.

“Him going that fast, I knew then somebody had been chasing him because there were policeman all over the place. There were guns drawn and everything. I knew something had to have happened," said Carolyn White, the driver who was hit by the carjacking suspect moments before the deadly crash.

According to the police report, the Martines was fleeing in the stolen truck at a high rate of speed, traveling southbound on Douglas Avenue.

Police say when Martinez attempted to pass traffic traveling in the same direction, he struck the back of another vehicle.

“I was coming out of the rehabilitation center," White said. "I had just finished my physical therapy and I turned on the street and was headed down the road. And I looked at my rear view mirror and this truck was on my bumper and he had crashed into me."



Police said the driver then lost control of the truck, and struck a tree. The initial impact caused the driver's side of the truck to strike another tree.

“Well, I’ll tell you I got an 11-year-old son and one of his good friends actually lives in the house right here (on the corner)," said William Tomlinson, who lives down the street from where the truck crashed. "He walks on the sidewalk and that’s pretty scary I would say."

