Howard County police are investigating a fatal motorcycle collision in Ellicott City.Police were called at 11:13 a.m. when a man on a 2013 Kawasaki Ninja was struck by a Saturn while speeding through a red light at an intersection.He was taken to Howard County General Hospital where he was pronounced dead. On Wednesday, police identified him as 24-year-old Terrence Alan Robinson of Windsor Mill. Through preliminary investigation, police learned that Robinson was seen by speeding westbound on Route 40 near the Howard County line.The officer attempted to stop the motorcycle, but Robinson refused to stop and continued to travel at a high rate of speed.To avoid a high-speed pursuit, the officer ceased to follow the motorcycle, police said.According to witnesses, the motorcycle continued speeding through a red light at the intersection of Route 40 and Normandy Drive. The rider then sped into the intersection through a red light at Route 40 and Rogers Avenue, where he was struck by a 2001 Saturn turning left.The driver of the Saturn was taken to HCGH as a precaution, with no serious injuries. She has been identified as Carole Ann Fisher, 78, of Ellicott City.Police have confirmed that Robinson did not have a motorcycle operator's license at the time of the crash and his standard driver's license was suspended.

Howard County police are investigating a fatal motorcycle collision in Ellicott City.

Police were called at 11:13 a.m. when a man on a 2013 Kawasaki Ninja was struck by a Saturn while speeding through a red light at an intersection.

Advertisement

He was taken to Howard County General Hospital where he was pronounced dead. On Wednesday, police identified him as 24-year-old Terrence Alan Robinson of Windsor Mill.

Through preliminary investigation, police learned that Robinson was seen by speeding westbound on Route 40 near the Howard County line.

The officer attempted to stop the motorcycle, but Robinson refused to stop and continued to travel at a high rate of speed.

To avoid a high-speed pursuit, the officer ceased to follow the motorcycle, police said.

According to witnesses, the motorcycle continued speeding through a red light at the intersection of Route 40 and Normandy Drive. The rider then sped into the intersection through a red light at Route 40 and Rogers Avenue, where he was struck by a 2001 Saturn turning left.



The driver of the Saturn was taken to HCGH as a precaution, with no serious injuries. She has been identified as Carole Ann Fisher, 78, of Ellicott City.

Police have confirmed that Robinson did not have a motorcycle operator's license at the time of the crash and his standard driver's license was suspended.