This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

HOPE MILLS, N.C. — Hope Mills police shot and killed a New Jersey man Thursday morning, after the man stabbed his wife in a bank parking lot, according to WTVD-TV.

Officials said it happened just after 10 a.m. in the PNC bank parking lot, located at the intersection of Cumberland and Hope Mills Roads.

Police say Darrell Haymon, 53, was stabbing his wife, Lorrie Haymon, 51, when two officers initially responded to the domestic assault.

“When the suspect saw our officers, he grabbed the victim by the throat and refused commands to let the victim go, and drop the knife,” said Hope Mills Police Chief Joel Acciardo. “When the officers observed him getting ready to stab the victim again, they opened fire.

Acciardo said two of six officers responding opened fire, killing the Darrell Haymon. The woman was transferred to Cape Fear Valley Medical Center. Her condition is unknown.

The officers who opened fire have been identified as Kristen Thompson and Brad Dean. Thompson has been with the Department since 2012, and Dean has been with the Department since 2010. Acciardo called the incident sad, but said the officers had no choice but to shoot Haymon.

“Any time there’s any police interaction where there’s a life lost it’s always very sad. It’s always very tough,” he said. “Because obviously we’re here to fix things – not to hurt things.”

Police have not said whether the couple was at the bank to conduct business. ABC 11 has confirmed through family members that the couple is from New Jersey. Darrell Haymon’s mother said she believed they’d been in North Carolina for several weeks, but she did not have any more information.

The PNC bank lot where the stabbing and shooting happened is in a shopping center, near a busy intersection. Several witnesses talked to ABC 11, including Tyler Cook, who said he saw the stabbing.

“It looked like he had her in a headlock,” he said. “I thought he was punching her, but when I looked over he was stabbing her. There was like blood everywhere.”

Another witness, who asked to remain unidentified, described the man and several rounds of gunfire that followed the stabbing.

“He looked disturbed to me,” the man said. “The lady cop screamed at the detective ‘C’mon, hurry up, hurry up.”