SHARE Thomas Daniel Rogers

By Andrew Binion of the Kitsap Sun

PORT ORCHARD — Port Orchard police were justified in the June fatal shooting of a man they had attempted to arrest for sexually assaulting children in Oklahoma, the Kitsap County prosecutor announced Wednesday.

Prosecutor Tina Robinson said officers first attempted to use nonlethal weapons to subdue Thomas Daniel Rogers, 36, when he turned on them with a knife, but the Tasers did not penetrate his skin. Rogers then turned again on the officers, and they shot him a total of 10 times.

Officer Nathan Lynch, who was wounded in the encounter, shot Rogers nine times; Officer Matthew Bell shot Rogers once.

Robinson said the seven-second encounter was caught on security cameras, and she was able to inspect the footage frame by frame in deciding whether the two officers should be charged with a crime. Robinson cleared the officers of wrongdoing, saying they were acting in accordance with state law.

“It all happened so fast, we are talking seconds,” Robinson said.

Rogers’ mother told the Kitsap Sun on Wednesday that Rogers had denied the molestation charges and was preparing to travel back to Oklahoma when he was killed.

The fatal shooting set off a difficult seven months for Rogers’ family, said Tia Cox. In October, Rogers’ brother, Jason Rogers, was shot and killed by Oklahoma law enforcement during an encounter in his front yard; and in February, Cox’s great-grandson died of sudden infant death syndrome.

“It’s been bad, really bad,” Cox said.

Rogers was preparing to perform June 19 as a DJ at the Rendezvous Tavern when three officers arrived to arrest him for five felony arrest warrants for child molestation.

“The owner of the tavern informed Rogers that police were there for him and at first he appeared cooperative,” Robinson wrote in a statement. “He walked over to turn down the volume to the stereo, and then bolted out the back door. One witness reported that he believed he saw Rogers grab something and had his hand behind his shirt. As he bolted out the back door, both Lynch and Bell ran after him, shouting for him to stop.”

Rogers ran into an alley at South Park Plaza shopping center, turned toward the officers and “extended” the knife at an officer, Robinson wrote.

Rogers was armed with a kitchen-style knife, which in a photograph released after the shooting appeared to have a 6-inch blade. Robinson wrote that Rogers had brought the knife from a house where he had been staying. His last known address was in Bremerton.

The officers attempted to use Tasers, but the darts did not penetrate Rogers’ skin. Robinson said Rogers’ clothes deflected the darts.

Rogers turned to run again, but abruptly turned back toward the officers and “lunged” at Lynch, who shot Rogers nine times.

“As he’s lunging forward, basically he cuts the leg of Lynch,” Robinson said.

“That was it for me,” she said. “It was watching the interaction, being able to see it happening, to see they were being threatened, and he was attacking with the knife.”

The investigation by the Kitsap County Sheriff’s Office had been completed before Robinson took office. Following her election, she asked to be presented with all the evidence before making a decision on whether to file charges.

“I felt that I needed that as well,” Robinson said. “And it was very helpful.”

The two officers were cleared by a departmental investigation and returned to work a few weeks after the shooting, Port Orchard Police Cmdr. Dale Schuster said.

Investigators found two letters on Rogers they called “suicide notes.” Cox, who said she is in possession of the notes, said they did not explicitly say he planned to kill himself.

She said Rogers was a dutiful son and friend and loved his family.

“He had to step up and be the man of the family at 9 years old,” Cox said. “He was always the protector of me and my girls. I always knew if he was on the face of this earth he would take care of us.”

Although the family has longtime ties to Washington state — Cox said Rogers attended elementary and junior high school in Kitsap — it was Rogers’ love of music that drew him back to the area.

“It’s easier to get into music up there than (in Oklahoma),” she said. “There’s a lot more opportunity. Tulsa isn’t exactly a mecca.”

Cox said Rogers’ brother, Jason, was planning to travel to Kitsap to help his brother return to Oklahoma to face the molestation charges. He took Rogers’ death hard, Cox said.

When he was shot by law enforcement in October, Cox said he was armed with a pistol, but it was because people in Tulsa had threatened him.

“It had nothing to do with the police,” she said.

Jason Rogers was mowing his yard, with his two sons nearby, when officers arrived. The two boys witnessed his death, Cox said, and that has left them and other children in the family scared of police.

“The family is hurt, deeply hurt,” Cox said. “They are scared of police. I mean, they are really scared. Kids should not have to be scared of the police.”