A man who died after being shot in an altercation with Dickinson police has been identified.

Timothy Ray Bowling, 31, died at St. Joseph’s Hospital on Saturday, the Dickinson Police Department said in a statement. The statement said Bowling had a New England address but was from Mississippi.

Dickinson police responded to a 911 call about possible gunshots at 6:23 a.m. Saturday. A Dodge pickup was reported leaving the scene, and an officer spotted one matching the description. The pickup accelerated, and the officer could only get within a few blocks. According to Mandan police, the pickup had been reported stolen on Friday in a business burglary.

The driver of the pickup stopped and fled on foot, and officers discovered stolen items in the pickup.

A woman told police the driver of the pickup had fired shots at her while she was a passenger in the pickup. She identified the driver as Bowling and told police he was carrying a handgun.

Police used the reverse 911 system to warn the neighborhood, and the Southwest Tactical Team helped with the search. Officers surrounded the area where Bowling was last seen and checked a home on the 1000 block of Carroll Street in Dickinson, where he had acquaintances.

Bowling allegedly fled from the home, and officers outside the home shot him. Police have not said how many times Bowling was shot.

Dickinson police said in a statement a Dickinson police officer and a Stark County sheriff’s deputy were involved in the incident. Bowling was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital emergency room, where he died.

The North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation was called to review the shooting, which follows procedure in such cases. A Dickinson police officer is on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the BCI investigation.

The case also has a connection to a string of burglaries in Mandan. The Mandan Police Department received reports of burglaries to three businesses and an attempted burglary at another on Friday. Fried’s Family Restaurant, Bonanza and Dakota Siding and Windows all were entered by someone who broke out glass doors at the businesses. Someone also attempted to enter the Hideaway but did not get in.

Items stolen in the burglaries included cash and a safe from Fried’s Family Restaurant, two donation collection jars from Bonanza and a pickup from Dakota Siding and Windows.

Mandan police said the pickup taken from Dakota Siding and Windows was the same one Dickinson police pursued prior to the shooting.

According to court documents, Bowling was facing charges of burglary and conspiracy to commit burglary in Stark County at the time of his death. He also was on probation for a Burleigh County case in which he was convicted of conspiracy to deliver methamphetamine within 1,000 feet of a school. Probation officers were seeking to have his probation in that case revoked.