A Columbus, Nebraska, man who was fatally shot Friday by law enforcement officers first came to authorities’ attention as a teenager in 1995 when he admitted to starting a deadly fire.

Jason T. Van Buskirk, 32, an electrician, was killed on U.S. Highway 30 near County Road 10 about 3 a.m. Friday after firing at a Nebraska State Patrol trooper.

Van Buskirk was 13 when he started a fire in a mobile home on Oct. 30, 1995, that killed brothers Jose Rodrigo Arroyo, 7, and Ruben Arroyo, 5. The boys’ sister, Viridiana, suffered burns over 30 percent of her body.

Larry Karel, a lawyer who was Colfax County attorney at the time, said he didn’t recall much about the case.

“I remembered his name when I saw it in the paper, and it kind of piqued my curiosity,” Karel said. “But other than it (the fire) being very tragic, I don’t remember much ...”

In 1997 Van Buskirk, then 15 years old, was sentenced to the Youth Rehabilitation and Treatment Center-Kearney for an undetermined time. He had been at the youth center twice before for unrelated crimes.

Authorities initially believed the fire was accidental before Karel’s office obtained new information.

Investigators determined that Van Buskirk had broken into the home to burglarize it. Before leaving, he turned on the gas stove, then lit a piece of clothing on fire and threw it onto a pile of clothes.

Van Buskirk was charged as an adult with two counts of manslaughter and one count of breaking and entering, both felonies, and one count of first-degree arson, also a felony. Several months later, however, the case was transferred to juvenile court, where Van Buskirk admitted his guilt.

After being released from the Kearney youth center, Van Buskirk was convicted of robbery in Platte County in 1999. He was sentenced to 10 to 15 years in prison and released in May 2004.

Van Buskirk, a divorced father of four, seems to have largely stayed out of trouble until Friday, when he allegedly threatened two women at gunpoint in separate incidents.

He led law enforcement officers on a chase, eventually ramming at least two vehicles with his truck.

The chain of events began just before 1:30 a.m. when a state trooper responded to reports of a woman running from a man with a gun in Columbus. Cierra Senff told The World-Herald that Van Buskirk had held her at gunpoint in his home.

She said the two had met at Glur’s Tavern and went to two other bars before he agreed to take her to her car. Instead, he drove her to his house.

Van Buskirk, who was armed, began to rant about women and the world in general, Senff said. She bolted from the house when Van Buskirk went into the bathroom.

“I never ran faster in my life,” she said.

Van Buskirk pursued her. The Nebraska State Patrol said a trooper spotted Van Buskirk’s vehicle, a 2012 Dodge Ram pickup truck, and got him to pull over. As the officer approached the passenger side of the truck, Van Buskirk opened fire.

The trooper, who was not hit, returned fire, and the pickup raced away.

The next person to encounter Van Buskirk was Deaundrea Hensley, 23, an overnight stocker at the Columbus Walmart. She was taking her 2:30 a.m. lunch break in the parking lot when a man identified by Columbus police as Van Buskirk pulled up next to her in a pickup.

He got out and rushed up to her car, pointed a gun at her and asked, “Do you want me to shoot you?” He reached through her open window and put a hand around her neck.

Hensley said she pushed the gun away, yelled, honked the horn and fought back.

They struggled, and Hensley slashed at Van Buskirk with the box cutter she uses for work. Eventually he jumped back into his truck and drove off.

Just before 3 a.m., the truck was spotted on Highway 30 on the east edge of Columbus.

Van Buskirk put the pickup into reverse and crashed into two law enforcement vehicles. Authorities fired on the pickup and struck Van Buskirk, who died at the scene.

The pursuing officers escaped injury, though a Schuyler police officer was hit by flying glass.

The Columbus and Schuyler Police Departments and Sheriff’s Offices from Platte, Colfax and Butler Counties were involved in the incident. Nebraska law requires that a grand jury be convened when someone dies while in custody or while being arrested.

World-Herald staff writers Hunter Woodall, Maggie O’Brien and Jay Withrow contributed to this report.

Contact the writer: 402-444-1272, kevin.cole@owh.com