GREENSBORO — Two Guilford County sheriff’s deputies acted lawfully when they shot and killed a 45-year-old Pleasant Garden man this summer during a standoff, according to authorities.

The Guilford County district attorney’s office notified Ray Junior “RJ” Barber’s family, the sheriff’s office and the State Bureau of Investigation of its decision late last week, Assistant District Attorney Howard Neumann said.

“It was clear the officers had the right to use deadly force against him to protect themselves and to protect the other people who were out there on the scene,” Neumann said. “We determined that the deputies involved in the shooting acted lawfully.”

The district attorney’s office came to the conclusion after evaluating the SBI’s investigation into the incident.

The office did not present the case to a grand jury, which is not unusual.

Neumann, who has been a Guilford County assistant district attorney for 28 years, said he vaguely remembers only one case in which an officer-involved shooting was presented to a grand jury. It happened before he was hired. In that case, the grand jury found police acted lawfully, Neumann said.

The case to which Neumann referred happened in 1984, when Greensboro Police Department Officer R.D. Ball shot and killed 31-year-old Randall Morgan Deckert. The case went to the grand jury in April 1985. The jury determined the shooting was justified.

In the Pleasant Garden incident in June, authorities said Barber appeared suicidal after a domestic dispute with his wife and was shot after he raised a gun in the direction of sheriff’s deputies outside his house at 536 Cynthia Road.

Barber’s wife, Phyllis Barber, called 911 about 2:50 p.m. on June 22, and said her husband had gone to his workshop with a gun and held it to his head.

The gun fired when Phyllis Barber tried to take it from her husband, but neither was hurt.

Phyllis Barber then ran across the street to a neighbor’s house to call for help.

Deputies responded to the 911 call to find Barber walking around outside his house with a handgun, and they called for help from the sheriff’s emergency response team and the crisis negotiator team.

For the next three hours, negotiators spoke to Barber using his cellphone as well as a public address system.

Barber spent most of that time in an outbuilding, and when his cellphone’s battery began to die, deputies tried to give him another phone.

According to authorities, Barber began to walk toward the house and raised his gun.

Sgt. S.M. Burns and Cpl. J.R. Stevens came out of the house, where they were stationed, and told Barber to put the gun down, officials said.

At 6:08 p.m. Stevens and Burns fired at him, officials said.

The officers were put on administrative duty while an internal investigation was conducted.

The sheriff office’s policy also requires that the officers involved in shootings are evaluated.

“As soon as the doctor clears them and the officers feel they’re ready to return to work, we try to get them back on the street,” Maj. Jonathan Jacobs said.

The deputies, both veterans of more than 10 years and both on the sheriff’s emergency response team, returned to full duty shortly after the shooting.

Neumann met with Barber’s mother and sister on Nov. 20.

“I shared with them the facts that the SBI had developed from their investigation,” he said.

“They had a lot of questions about what transpired out there,” Neumann said. “They seemed to be understanding of what the law was, based upon the facts that occurred that day.”

News & Record librarian Diane Lamb contributed to this report.