James Fisher

The News Journal

A brother of Dennis Hicks, the 29-year-old man killed near his girlfriend's home Wednesday by a Delaware State Police trooper in a shootout that left the officer hospitalized, says Hicks was improving his life after getting out of prison in 2013.

But he hated the thought of going back behind bars.

"He was away for three years, and I guess he just didn't want to go back," said Sylvester Hicks, 30, of Lincoln in an interview Thursday with The News Journal.

Sylvester Hicks said his brother was well-loved by his family, and was working for a home-repair company – a job Sylvester Hicks helped line up for his brother after he was freed from prison in 2013.

"How it looks in the news is terrible, like he was out to hurt somebody," Hicks said of the Wednesday morning exchange of gunfire. "But that's not Dennis ... Our family is not about that. Dennis is not about that."

At the same time, Sylvester Hicks said, he doesn't feel angry about the state trooper, Cpl. Lloyd M. McCann, 26, who shot Dennis Hicks.

"I don't blame him at all. I hope he gets better," Sylvester Hicks said of McCann. "He shouldn't blame himself. As a person we've got nothing against him."

Police said Hicks stopped his car during a pursuit, when police were looking for him after a reported incident of domestic violence at 12:30 a.m. Wednesday.

Hicks immediately fired a semiautomatic handgun toward McCann. McCann shot back, hitting Hicks in the upper body. The trooper, shot in the cheek and hand, remained in serious, but stable condition Thursday morning at Christiana Hospital.

The fatal shooting, which occurred before 7 a.m. Wednesday, happened at Bay Hill and West Birdie lanes north of Magnolia. The intersection is off South State Street at the entrance to the Linkside town homes, where Hicks' girlfriend, who lives in the first block of Bay Hill Lane, had earlier reported he choked her and held a knife to her throat as her two children, ages 5 and 12, watched.

State police on Thursday corrected the girlfriend's address, after initially reporting it was on a street with a similar name in a nearby community.

Dennis Hicks' uncle, Jesse R. Harmon, 75, of Lincoln, said his nephew came by his house after work Tuesday evening. Dennis Hicks soon left to spend the night with his girlfriend, Harmon said, but he returned to Harmon's house at about 4 a.m. Harmon said Hicks left again around 6 a.m., about an hour before the police initiated their pursuit on Del. 1 north of Milford.

Harmon said he suspected his nephew was going back to his girlfriend's home, and tried to convince him not to do that.

"I knew he was going back up there. I knew he was already mad," Harmon said. "There's something about that woman that brings everything out of him."

Contact James Fisher at (302) 983-6772, on Twitter @JamesFisherTNJ or jfisher@delawareonline.com.