A federal lawsuit filed against Washington County Sheriff Fred Newman and one of his deputies by the widow of a man shot and killed in 2014 has been resolved in the sheriff’s favor.

U.S. District Judge James P. Jones filed an order Wednesday granting summary judgment, which means it won’t get to trial.

William Michael Huffman was shot and killed on June 27, 2014, at his residence near Damascus. At the time, the man’s wife, Jamie Huffman, called 911 because he had been making suicidal statements and was experiencing withdrawal from pain medication, according to court records.

Huffman’s pistol was next to him as he sat in a recliner.

Deputy Thomas Gregory Caldwell and Virginia State Police Trooper Rick Fore responded to the scene. Court records reveal the deputy asked the man if he had a firearm and he said no.

“Deputy Caldwell again ordered Michael to drop the gun,” the judge wrote. “Michael did not do so but instead began moving to his left. At that point, Deputy Caldwell fired one shot from his pistol, striking Michael.”

The firearm was secured and Huffman was taken to Bristol Regional Medical Center, where he later died.

“At no time prior to the shooting did Michael point his gun at anyone or make any verbal threats,” the judge wrote.

In the suit, the man’s wife claimed excessive force and wrongful death. The sheriff and the deputy sought summary judgment, arguing that they are entitled to qualified immunity and that the facts warrant judgment in their favor as a matter of law. Newman also contended that he could not be held liable as the supervisor.

“I find that Deputy Caldwell’s use of deadly force was objectively reasonable because the totality of the circumstances known to Caldwell at the time of the shooting would lead a reasonable officer to believe that Michael posed an imminent threat of serious physical harm to Deputy Caldwell or others,” the judge wrote.

He added that the man was in possession of a firearm that he refused to relinquish despite repeated requests.

“Immediately before the shooting, Michael stood up from his chair with the gun in his hand, a short distance away from the officer,” the judge wrote. “Under those circumstances, a reasonable police officer would have perceived an imminent threat. Deputy Caldwell was not required to wait until the gun was pointed at him.”

The judge added that Huffman did not have a right to brandish the firearm in front of law enforcement after repeatedly being told to drop it.

The claim against Newman fails for the same reasons, the judge said, as there was no violation of the man’s Fourth Amendment rights. Supervisory officials may not be held liable for the unconstitutional conduct of their subordinates, the judge added.

Jones said the plaintiff also failed to produce any evidence to support a claim that excessive force was an institutionalized practice at the Sheriff’s Office.

“This is a tragic case,” Jones wrote. “I fully understand Mrs. Huffman’s anguish over what she considers her husband’s unnecessary loss of life. I am also certain that Deputy Caldwell deeply regrets that he found it necessary to take someone’s life. Nevertheless, I find that Deputy Caldwell acted reasonably and with justification, and cannot be held legally liable for Michael’s death.”

A special prosecutor previously cleared the officer of any state charges in the incident.