Investigators search the street in front of the apartment building at 351 Union Avenue in Elizabeth, where a police officer shot and killed a man on Sunday.

ELIZABETH — A city man who was fatally shot by police was threatening a woman with a knife outside an apartment building, authorities say, but residents defended the man, saying he would not have hurt anybody.

John Omar DelValle, 44, was shot during an altercation on Union Avenue shortly after 5 p.m. Sunday, acting Union County Prosecutor Grace Park said in a statement today.

"An officer responding to the 300 block of Union Avenue in Elizabeth encountered DelValle holding a 49-year-old woman at knifepoint, according to the investigation," Park said in the statement.

"During an altercation that followed, the officer fired a single shot from his service weapon, striking DelValle. He was pronounced dead at the scene," Park said.

Tenants of the building where DelValle had lived for about three months with a woman said the couple had arguments and said police had previously been called, but they say DelValle was a kind person.

"He was very friendly. He was sweet. It didn't have to happen like this. They could have shot him in the leg or arm or something non-lethal," said Angelina Charczak, who lives in the building. She said the woman, who she did not identify, had lived in the building much longer, but DelValle moved there in recently.

Another resident, Bryan Loaiza said he came out the front door of the building just after the shooting occurred and saw the distraught woman.

"She was going crazy. She was yelling, 'John, John.'" Loaiza said.

He said he had come to the front door of the apartment to meet a delivery man.



Loaiza said the delivery man told him of seeing DelValle and the woman on the sidewalk, and that the woman had asked the delivery man to call police. Other residents said the building supervisor had also called police.

After he was shot, DelValle fell on the sidewalk between the apartment building and an adjacent apartment house.

Four votive candles had been placed on the sidewalk where DelValle fell, right next to a dark red stain, on the concrete walk.

Park said the woman and the police, a 23-year-veteran of the department, were not injured in the altercation. Authorities did not identify the woman or the officer.

Loaiza said DelValle had always been friendly. However, Loaiza said he heard the police were called to the apartment Saturday night because of the dispute between DelValle and the woman.

At least eight investigators could be seen searching the street and knocking on doors of homes and apartment building on Union Avenue today.

Authorities ask anybody with information about this incident at the apartment building to call Detective Johnny Ho of the prosecutor's office at (908) 527-4509.

MORE UNION COUNTY NEWS

FOLLOW THE STAR-LEDGER: TWITTER • FACEBOOK • GOOGLE+