When an off-duty Fort Lauderdale police detective was shot in the parking lot of an Irish pub in July, he fired back and struck the shooter eight times. But the man didn’t fall until the ninth and final shot hit him in the brain, newly obtained court records show.

Struck nine times, including in his right eye, left bicep, chest and head, Richard Arruda, 40, was pronounced dead on scene at Maguires Hill 16, 535 N. Andrews Ave.

A Broward County grand jury in September pardoned Detective Mark Shotwell for the fatal July 3 shooting.

Shotwell, 57, was struck once in the chest by Arruda’s Ruger .357 revolver, records show. Shotwell managed to grab his .9 mm semi-automatic Glock from an ankle holster and fire back as he collapsed. The Glock’s high-velocity rounds are capable of passing through a person.

“I knew right away it was bad,” Shotwell said in a statement to police. “It was a very heavy, very wet hit…I didn’t know how long I was gonna be conscious…I stopped shooting when he stopped moving.”

The gunfire erupted after Arruda and his girlfriend Christine Menatti, a waitress at the pub, pulled into the parking lot.

The couple had been drinking at Tap 42, at 1411 S. Andrews Ave., but argued and left after “one of the regulars” touched Menatti’s leg, she told police.

While driving, Arruda hit Menatti in the eye and broke the rearview mirror in her car, according to her July 3 statement to police.

“I pulled into Maguires because I work here and I feel safe here,” she said.

Surveillance video from the pub shows a blue Honda Civic speeding into the parking lot at about 7:40 p.m. A couple get out of the car as Shotwell leaves the pub.

Menatti went toward Shotwell, a regular at the pub, for protection.

“I got behind him because I felt safe,” Menatti said. “I didn’t want to get hit again.”

Shotwell told police he asked Arruda if there was a problem.

“Not if you don’t make a f—— problem,” Arruda responded.

Shotwell said Arruda reached toward his waistband and he spotted something in his hand. In a flash, Shotwell said he realized “that it’s a weapon and that it’s gonna be a problem.”

Menatti told police she heard the gunshots but didn’t see the exchange of fire.

“All I heard was gunshots, gunshots, gunshots and then Richard’s on the floor, he’s on the ground and he’s not moving and he’s in a pile of blood,” Menatti said. “And I see Mark and he looks like [he’s]…a zombie and he was shot.”

Arruda’s blood-alcohol content at the time of his death was .11, well over the legal limit of .08, records show.

Shotwell, who spent three days on a ventilator and underwent two surgeries, returned to light-duty work Oct. 27.

On Tuesday, he was named Officer of the Month for November.

tealanez@tribune.com, 954-356-4542 or Twitter @talanez