FLINT, MI – When their mother Jacqueline Nichols was killed in a two-car crash involving a Michigan State Police cruiser last week, Tamara and Michael Nichols knew a pillar of their community was lost.

Jacqueline Nichols, 63 of Flint, was killed July 3 in two-car crash involving a Michigan State Trooper. She was remembered by her community for generosity, and as a caring mother

Jacqueline Nichols' home was filled with friends, family and members of her community in the days after the crash. A constant train of home-cooked meals wrapped in tin foil filed in and out of the house.

Michael Nichols directed traffic from the porch. Heartbroken to see his mother die unexpectedly, he took solace in the support of his community.

"She cooked all the time," he said. "She'd feed anybody. We've been getting food all week. She was very well known here. She could walk up and down these streets at night with no problem."

Jacqueline Nichols was heading home to her residence in the 1100 block of East Pierson Road from a day of shopping and getting her hair done at a nearby hair salon, Thursday, July 3.

Riding in a Chevy HHR station wagon, Nichols and the two others in the care were broadsided by Michigan State Police cruiser chasing a suspect on North Street, from Stewart Avenue.

"Every month or so, her and her friends would go take care of their business and get their hair done," Michael Nichols said. "They had groceries in the car. This was just a regular, day-to-day thing. This is a feeling I wouldn't wish on anybody. We got to be strong."

Initially listed in critical condition, along with the other passengers, Nichols' death was announced in a MSP press release during the early morning hours of Friday, July 4.

Attorney Geoffrey Fieger plans to file a $50 million lawsuit over the crash.

Nichols, 61-year-old Precious Cochrane and Robbie Head, 39, were on their way home from a beauty salon appointment when their vehicle was struck broadside by the trooper, Fieger claims. The crash happened roughly two blocks from Nichols' home.

Cochrane and Head were severely injured in the crash.

Jacqueline Nichols was 64 years old. She died at Hurley Medical Center on July 3.

Michael Nichols said he was the first person notified of his mother's death.

He said troopers came to his door with the news about seven hours after the incident. Michael Nichols said he holds no ill feelings toward the state police.

Tamara (left), and Michael Nichols mourn the death of their mother Jacqueline Nichols, who was killed in a two-car crash involving a Michigan State Police trooper on July 3, from their mother's porch in the 1100 block of E. Pierson Road, Monday July 7.

"No grudges here," Michael said. "I don't have anything against the troopers. They just need to follow protocol and do their jobs. I can't hate them."

News of her death devastated the community on Flint's north side, leaving several friends of Nichols reminiscing about a woman they said was loved by everyone she knew.

"Everybody loved my momma," Tamara Nichols said. "She was born and raised here, on Baltimore Street. Nobody could mess with her. She drew people to her.

"She'd feed anyone, and give you the shirt off her back."

Tamara Nichols said her mother started school at the nearby Jefferson Elementary. She said before her death, Jacqueline Nichols had been baptized for a second time.

An avid Christian woman, Tamara is certain her mother felt no pain in death.

"I know my mother didn't suffer," she said. "She didn't die in vain. She had just got baptized again because she hadn't gone since she was a little baby girl."

Fondly remembering her mother's love of slot machines, Tamara Nichols remembers sitting in Jacqueline Nichol's home, where she lived until her mother's death, while the two played games on their computers.

"I remember being in my room, on my computer, and she was in the living room playing the slots," Tamara Nichols laughed. "She loved playing it on the computer."

Diane Poppler, 63, said she was friends with Jacqueline Nichols her whole life. Poppler started kindergarten with Nichols at Jefferson, and remained friends throughout high school, and into adulthood.

After moving to Phoenix, Ariz., 10 years ago, Poppler said she was always sure to stop in to visit Nichols when in town. Poppler now resides just blocks from Nichol's home in Flint.

"Jackie and I go back a long time. There was always someone here to see her," Poppler said. "As far as the people who knew here, they all had love for her. She was a golden person. I always made sure to see her once a month or so, when I was away. It's just a shame she's gone so soon. She will be missed."

Poppler remembers sitting up for hours into the night, catching up and talking about their lives and families. Generosity was the Nichols' biggest quality, Poppler said. She said Nichols was always willing to talk, regardless of the hour.

"We'd mostly sit up and talk, catch up with each other," Poppler said. "She didn't bite her tongue, and would fight like the devil if you stepped on her toes. She'd fuss like hell for you down to her last dollar. None of us are saints, but she had a really good heart."

Tyrone Patton, another nearby resident and friend of Nichols' for three years, remembers when he first met her. He said she gave him money for a lottery ticket and proceeded to be a confidant and counselor to him for the rest of her life.

"She meant everything to me," Patton said. "She always invited me over to calm down while I was dealing with my own family. She didn't discriminate at all.

"Being at her home keeps me close to her. She was a confidant, a counselor, a teacher and a preacher."

Memorial services for Nichols will begin with a public viewing at noon, July 9, at Lawrence E. Moon Funeral Home Chapel in Flint, and a church service at noon, July 10.

The Nichols family is taking donations for a memorial fund through Chase Bank, which can be reached at 810-785-4503.

To Tamara Nichols, the media attention surrounding her mother's death is what will keep her story alive.

"I like the coverage they're doing for my mother on TV," Tamara said. "They're keeping her picture out there. We're not doing this for the publicity. I'm doing it because it was wrong how she went."