Authorities on Tuesday named three members of the SWAT team involved in the fatal July 7 shooting of an armed man during a confrontation at his home north of Molalla.

Sgt. Nathan Thompson, Clackamas County Sheriff's Office spokesman, identified the deputies as:

Deputy Nicholas Adler, a 14-year sheriff's office veteran who has served on the SWAT team for two years.

Sgt. Anthony Kollias, a 14-year sheriff's office veteran who has served on the SWAT team for 13 years.

Detective Jeff Miller, a 15-year sheriff's office veteran who has served on the SWAT team for nine years.

All three were placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol after an officer-involved shooting. Meanwhile, the shooting is being investigated by the county's Major Crimes Team, which will send its findings to the Clackamas County District Attorney's Office. The sheriff's office also is launching its own internal investigation.

Dr. Karen Gunson, Oregon state medical examiner, said 36-year-old Shane Lucan Griffin had been shot several times and died from a gunshot wound to the abdomen.

Griffin's death capped a three-hour standoff with deputies who arrived to investigate a report of domestic violence. A woman called 911 around 10 p.m. July 6, telling emergency dispatchers that her husband had assaulted her and that he was armed. She and her two children were able to safely escape the house, which is located in the 30200 block of South Highway 213, north of Molalla.

When deputies arrived, they determined the woman had been the victim of felony domestic violence and then made contact with Griffin, who remained in the home. Deputies spent nearly three hours negotiating with Griffin, making contact several times over the phone and by text messages. However, Griffin refused to surrender.

Around 2 a.m., Griffin came out of his house – armed with "multiple firearms" -- and confronted deputies in his driveway, Thompson said. He said shots were fired almost immediately, but a sequence of events has not yet been released.

Griffin was pronounced dead at the scene.

Clackamas Women's Services issued a statement offering support and counseling for Griffin's wife and children, as well as applauding sheriff's deputies for their quick response.

-- Rick Bella