The Cleveland County Sheriff's Office identified a man who died after an deputy-involved shooting on Saturday.Nicholas Popplewell, 27, of Norman, was pronounced dead at the hospital after the shooting.Video: Authorities investigate deputy-involved shootingAuthorities said Popplewell was the passenger in a GMC SUV that was stopped for a traffic violation on Saturday. Deputies said the driver of the vehicle, Christopher Mormann, 36, of Norman, told the deputy that a gun and drugs were in the vehicle.According to Meghan McCormick, the public information officer for the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office, Popplewell got into a K9 deputy's patrol car while deputies were searching the SUV.McCormick said a deputy ran after Popplewell and attempted to get him out of the vehicle, and was dragged a short distance when Popplewell started driving the patrol car.According to McCormick, the other deputy opened fire and hit Popplewell. Investigators determined Popplewell had an outstanding warrant for first-degree robbery out of McClain County.Mormann was arrested on suspicion of possession of marijuana and possession of paraphernalia.Both deputies have been placed on administrative leave during the investigation, according to the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office.

The Cleveland County Sheriff's Office identified a man who died after an deputy-involved shooting on Saturday.

Nicholas Popplewell, 27, of Norman, was pronounced dead at the hospital after the shooting.

Advertisement Related Content Norman police investigating an officer involved shooting

Video: Authorities investigate deputy-involved shooting

Authorities said Popplewell was the passenger in a GMC SUV that was stopped for a traffic violation on Saturday. Deputies said the driver of the vehicle, Christopher Mormann, 36, of Norman, told the deputy that a gun and drugs were in the vehicle.

According to Meghan McCormick, the public information officer for the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office, Popplewell got into a K9 deputy's patrol car while deputies were searching the SUV.

McCormick said a deputy ran after Popplewell and attempted to get him out of the vehicle, and was dragged a short distance when Popplewell started driving the patrol car.

According to McCormick, the other deputy opened fire and hit Popplewell. Investigators determined Popplewell had an outstanding warrant for first-degree robbery out of McClain County.

Mormann was arrested on suspicion of possession of marijuana and possession of paraphernalia.

Both deputies have been placed on administrative leave during the investigation, according to the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office.