Allison Gatlin

The Salinas Californian

The man Salinas police fatally shot early Thursday was a 39-year-old parolee positioned in a shooting stance but armed only with a cell phone, Monterey County District Attorney Dean Flippo said Friday.

Eight to 10 investigators have been working around the clock to compile witness interviews as well as make measurements and collect evidence from the Fairview Avenue and Beverly Drive scene where Frank Alvarado died, Flippo said.

The district attorney's account of the events leading up to Alvarado's death at the hands of two Salinas police officers differed wildly from the portrait family members and community organizers painted of the 39-year-old parolee.

Alvarado's death was precipitated by his vow that he wouldn't return to prison, Flippo said.

Salinas police officers responded about 5 a.m. Thursday to Fairview Avenue and Beverly Drive where family members said Alvarado had broken into and set fire to his grandfather's house.

Responding officers were aware that Alvarado was on parole after serving 11 years of a prison sentence for attempted murder and personal use of a firearm, Flippo said. He'd also allegedly violated that parole by using methamphetamine, the district attorney said.

"Interviews indicated to us that he had made it very clear that he was not going to go back to state prison for a parole violation," Flippo said. "He had stated to others not only that he would not go back if apprehended by police, that he would resist, but that he would use a cell phone to simulate a weapon if officers, again, did try to apprehend him."

At the scene, officers encountered Alvarado hiding behind a vehicle, Flippo said. The 39-year-old had already come out of his grandfather's home where he'd allegedly used a butane torch to set a fire.

Family members were able to extinguish the blaze, which consumed curtains and a sofa, without firefighters' assistance, Flippo said.

Outside, police officers ordered Alvarado to surrender, Flippo said.

"He responded by stating an expletive and a challenge and he rushed the officers," Flippo said. "He had his hands in front of him in a shooting posture ... and he appeared to have some kind of object in his hands."

That object, Flippo said, turned out to be a cell phone.

Two officers then fired, felling Alvarado. He was taken by ambulance to Natividad Medical Center where he was pronounced dead, Flippo said. He declined to go into Alvarado's alleged challenge to the police and was unsure of the total number of responding officers.

Flippo cautioned an investigation into an officer-involved shooting "takes quite a bit of time." Investigators are still awaiting toxicology reports on Alvarado that won't be complete until after the autopsy.

He declined to put a time table on the investigation.

Family, neighbors speak out

Alvarado's older sister, Angelica Garza, said he could be very tender with his loved ones. His niece, Natalie Mendoza, was a favorite.

"He was protective over her," Garza said. "He would go into her room and wake her up in her crib saying, 'It's your Uncle Nano, Natalie.'"

But Alvarado went to prison in 2002 when Mendoza, now 16, was only 4 years old. He was released a year ago, and Mendoza said she was just getting to know him again.

On Friday, Garza was canvassing the neighborhood where two Salinas police officers fatally shot the 39-year-old around 5 a.m. the day before, exactly a week before his 40th birthday.

"I'm looking for witnesses," she said. "Anyone who saw anything."

Alvarado's death is the fourth officer-involved fatality of the year — a number Salinas police Chief Kelly McMillin has deemed "absolutely unprecedented."

While the DA's Office investigates Alvarado's death, the Salinas Police Department is still working to complete investigations into the March 20, May 9 and May 20 officer-involved fatalities of Angel Ruiz, Osman Hernandez and Carlos Mejia, respectively.

Garza said she hopes to build a case against the city of Salinas and the Salinas Police Department for wrongful death. Should her case go forward, it will join those filed in recent months by the Hernandez and Mejia families.

Garza said Friday morning she hadn't yet been apprised of what occured in the predawn hours Thursday when her brother was shot.

Others, however, claimed to have a clear memory of what went down at 5 a.m. Thursday at Fairview Avenue and Beverly Drive, a neighborhood off Sanborn Road close by Highway 101 and near the Salinas Municipal Airport.

Posted in Vicki Moon's Fairview Avenue front window is a sign featuring the visage of her son, Bryan Bombela, whom Monterey County sheriff's deputies fatally shot 14 years ago, accompanied by the words, "It doesn't matter what color or race cops are killers."

Moon said she relived her son's shooting Thursday morning when Alvarado was felled in front of her house. She described the predawn commotion that started with six officers and six patrol cars at the intersection.

"I was lying in bed when I heard them yelling, 'Get your hands up, get your hands up, get your [expletive] hands up,'" she said. "I looked out the crack in the window and I saw them shoot him right there."

Moon said she believes Alvarado was unarmed.

"It was dark but when the gunshots were fired you could see," she said. "Every one of those officers had his guns drawn."

Various witnesses have reported hearing between eight and 10 shots fired. Estela Torres, who lives on Beverly Drive, said she heard at least four.

Unlike Moon, Torres said she retreated to the back of her house and didn't actually see what happened.

"I just heard the boom, boom, boom," she said. "And they killed him."

Alvarado's older sister said she has her own reasons to fear the Salinas Police Department. With an 8-year-old son suffering from autism, Garza said she had a run-in with a handful of cops in May when she attempted to place her son under an involuntary hold.

After telling the officers twice what had triggered her son's episode, Garza said she lost her patience.

"And what did the cop do?" Garza asked. "She rolled her eyes at me. That was rude and unprofessional."

Early speculation that Alvarado was a gang member or in the United States illegally are totally incorrect, Garza said. She described her brother as a "jack of all trades" who was currently remodeling their father's house and had an 18- or 19-year-old son.

He was also advocating publicly for prison reform, as a YouTube video shot outside the Santa Cruz County courthouse shows.

Garza said she's angry, but she said she doesn't want to see violence spark the way it did following Mejia's death. The day after Mejia was killed a protest spiraled out of control.

Constantino Garcia, 23, was fatally shot as he watched the melee from his front yard. A Salinas police officer, who attempted to perform CPR on the dying man, was hospitalized after he was struck in the head by a flying bottle.

"I'm angry, I'm not sad," Garza said. "Something needs to be done. ... We don't need violence, we need justice."

Follow Allison Gatlin on Twitter @allison_salnews #salinas.