CROWN POINT - A rookie state trooper responding to a domestic violence call Monday morning was shot and killed by a man who moments later shot his ex-girlfriend to death and then killed himself, police said.

Trooper Lawrence P. Gleason, 28, arrived at the rural Crown Point home where Amanda Olcott was staying shortly after 8 a.m. Monday. Olcott had earlier called police to say her ex-boyfriend had threatened her with a knife and then left the residence, state police Superintendent James McMahon said.

Gleason was interviewing the 36-year-old mother of two in her kitchen at about 8:20 a.m. when James Scharpf, 36, of Moriah returned to the home and fired three or more shots from a high-powered rifle from outside the house. Two shots went through a door of the house and another went through a wall, police said.

Despite the fact that the trooper was wearing a standard-issue bulletproof vest, the shots inflicted from the 30-30 hunting rifle caused "massive" body wounds and he was killed instantly, police said.

Scharpf, who police said had a history of domestic violence, then went into the house and gunned down Olcott before killing himself with another shot, police said. Their bodies were found in a room adjoining the kitchen, police said.

No one else was home at the time of shootings, according to police.

Dozens of troopers responded to the scene after a neighbor reported hearing gunshots.

State police blocked off Vineyard Road for most of the day, diverting traffic while they combed over the scene for evidence. The Crown Point Town Hall was closed Monday afternoon so state police could use it as a command post for their investigation.

Gleason, a native of Hornell, near Corning in central New York, came on the job last spring and worked out of the Schroon Lake state police station. He was the first state trooper killed in the line of duty in two years, and the first trooper to be shot and killed in the line of duty since 1994.

Olcott, a licensed professional nurse, had worked at the Moses-Ludington Hospital in Ticonderoga, police said. She lived in the home with her two daughters from a previous relationship, police said.

Neighbors said Olcott had recently moved to the rural, timber-sided home, adjacent to a trailer park at the intersection of Sam Curran Road and Vineyard Road, about 3 miles outside the hamlet of Crown Point.

Police said she may have moved there to get away from Scharpf.

Olcott's daughters, who neighbors said are ages 10 and 15, attend Crown Point schools. They were placed with their father after the shooting Monday, police said.

Killer had history of violence

Police said this wasn't their first encounter with Scharpf.

"Scharpf had a history of domestic issues with his partners over the years," Essex County District Attorney Ron Briggs said at a press conference Monday.

In 1992, Scharpf - rejected by another girlfriend - had threatened to kill himself in a cemetery in Port Henry with a shotgun and then scuffled with state troopers when they intervened, Briggs said.

Scharpf was arrested and committed to a mental hospital, then evaluated and released, he said.

"This case underscores domestic violence and what it can lead to," Briggs said. "Police are in harm's way every time they get called out. There's no way of knowing when someone's going to snap and it ends up in a terrible tragedy like we have today."

Trooper mourned

Gleason was the first state trooper killed in the line of duty since 2000, when two troopers died in a collision with a tractor-trailer in Ulster County, state police Sgt. Glenn Miner said.

The most recent fatality before that was the 1994 shooting of a state police investigator, who was trying to halt an armed robbery of a supermarket in Oneonta.

McMahon said the killing of any trooper, particularly a young one like Gleason - who waited three years to get into the state police academy - was a tragic loss of life.

"You deal with trying to answer 'Why' to his family members and answer 'Why' to his classmates," he said. "It was one of his classmates that was the first trooper on the scene."

Gov. George Pataki said the shooting underscores the danger of police work.

"Trooper Gleason's death is a painful reminder of the great risks our state troopers face each and every day," Pataki said in a press release. "All New Yorkers share in this tremendous loss, and we are profoundly inspired by Trooper Gleason's courage, professionalism and sacrifice."

McMahon said Gleason had an "outstanding" record of service in his nine months as a trooper, and that Gleason was single and was engaged to be married.

Neighbors, school react to shooting

Olcott's next-door neighbor to the northwest, Wendy Winchell, said she didn't hear anything and didn't know about the shooting until her mother called to see if she was all right.

The home where the shooting occurred belonged to Winchell's grandmother until about 12 years ago, she said.

Winchell said it was rented out to Billy Boyle beginning just several months ago, and that Amanda had lived there with her two children.

"Amanda seemed to be a nice enough person," she said, recalling that she was a tall, slim, athletic woman who had been active in basketball, softball and soccer for the sports teams at Crown Point Central High School.

Olcott's mother, Glendine Bemis, works in the cafeteria, school employees said.

The school had a crisis team at work Monday counseling students and staff members, district Assistant Superintendent Shari Brannock said Monday afternoon.

"At this point we're in a crisis mode," she said. "Other than that, I have no comment."

Winchell's husband, Ray, who said he had greeted Olcott a week ago in a bar at a bowling alley, shook his head and said Scharpf had often been in trouble with the law.

"He was a loose cannon and bad news," he said.

Some store owners in Crown Point refused to comment.

The owner of Hap's Country Store shook his head and didn't utter a word, refusing to comment. His store clerk answered for him.

"We're a tight-knit community," she said.

Norm St. Pierre, owner of Norm's Bait & Tackle in Crown Point, said the shootings shocked those who thought the North Country wasn't prone to such violence.

"You'd never expect this in a little town like this," he said. "You never know what to expect these days."