The death of a 45-year-old man who was high on PCP while in police custody has been ruled a homicide, the medical examiner's office said Friday.

The coroner said Ronald Singleton's July 13 death in Midtown was brought on by "physical restraint by police during excited delirium."

Advertisement

The medical examiner also said heart disease and obesity contributed to the Kips Bay man's death.

Singleton had 61 arrests on his record, including busts for drugs, assaults and weapons possession.

Advertisement

Ronald Singleton, 45, died July 13 after being restrained by police. (Courtesy Singleton family)

His heartbroken wife, Lyn Warren Singleton, 44, admitted that her husband of 19 years had a drug history and multiple run-ins with the police. The 5-foot-7, 210-pound man "went into a panic" when cops approached him, she said.

"He was never good with police," she said. "He always went into hysterics — this is before he even started indulging."

She blames the cops for not giving the father of four and grandfather of three the medical attention he needed.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 4 This is the wife of Ronald Singleton 45, Lyn Warren-Singleton 45. Ms. Singleton is holding pictures of herself and her late husband [Ronald Singleton] on 8/29/14. (NEW YORK DAILY NEWS)

"They didn't pay attention to him when he was crying for help," she said. "Someone having a heart attack is different signs than someone just bugging out."

On the day he died, Singleton was acting "overly irate and irrational" in the back of a taxi near St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Ave. and E. 51st St., police said.

The cabbie flagged cops down after Singleton cursed and screamed at him during the 12 a.m. altercation. When Singleton tried to fight off arriving officers, cops restrained him, putting him in a protective full-body wrap known as a burrito. He was not arrested, police said.

Singleton's death has been ruled a homicide. (Singleton family)

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

An ambulance was taking Singleton to Bellevue Hospital for a psychiatric evaluation when he went into cardiac arrest, officials said. It was immediately redirected to St. Luke's—Roosevelt Hospital, where Singleton died.

Singleton's widow said a detective called and told her that her husband was at the hospital. When she called St. Luke's, she said, a Dr. Lee told her Singleton was dead on arrival and wore handcuffs.

Advertisement

No disciplinary action has been taken against the officers involved in subduing Singleton, a police source said. The Internal Affairs Bureau is investigating the incident.

A cab driver on Fifth Ave. near E. 51st St. alerted cops after Singleton began acting 'overly irate and irrational' in a taxi. Singleton was restrained by police and went into cardiac arrest on the way to a hospital. (PIX11)

Singleton's death occurred four days before Eric Garner died on July 17 after Staten Island cops put him in a chokehold — a practice banned by the NYPD in 1993. Garner's death has been ruled a homicide.

The Rev. Al Sharpton, who led a march against police brutality in Staten Island last weekend, vowed to investigate Singleton's death thoroughly.

"It's disturbing ... I'm very disturbed," Sharpton said. "These are the reasons why we have to deal with changing police policy and training."

On a mobile device? Click here to watch the video.