MARQUETTE, MI - A judge dismissed a federal lawsuit against a police officer who shot and killed an unarmed man who advanced toward the officer after a chase and crash.

Munising Police Officer Justin Schlabach, who was cleared of criminal charges in the July 14, 2014, killing of Timothy Joseph Mitchell, was sued by Mitchell's family in U.S. District Court in Marquette.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Timothy Greeley this week granted a request for summary judgment in favor of the officer.

Schlabach claimed he had qualified immunity, which protects government workers in the course of their jobs as long as they do not violate laws or constitutional rights.

"Ultimately, I have struggled with this motion for weeks, and have spent a considerable amount of time reflecting on the question presented," Greeley wrote.

"Officer Schlabach did not have these luxuries; rather, he had only seconds to react. I conclude that Officer Schlabach's actions, as depicted in the video, are entitled to qualified immunity."

The estate for Mitchell, represented by high-profile attorney Geoffrey Fieger's law firm, argued that Mitchell had a constitutional right to be free of excessive force.

The shooting happened on a rainy summer afternoon in Munising, a small Upper Peninsula town of 2,500 on the southern shore of Lake Superior.

Schlabach was the only officer on duty.

An Alger County dispatcher advised him that Mitchell, intoxicated, had been in an altercation with two others in nearby Christmas, Mich., and was headed for Munising. The officer was headed for Christmas when he spotted Mitchell's vehicle.

Both pulled into a parking lot, in-car police video showed.

Seconds later, Mitchell drove off. Schlabach followed.

Mitchell turned onto Highway 28, then went through a neighborhood at speeds of nearly 60 mph. He ran several stop signs, including one in front of an elementary school, the judge said.

The chase continued on Highway 28 into Hiawatha National Forest, with speeds exceeding 100 mph. At one point, Mitchell slammed on his brakes, causing the officer to slow below 30 mph.

Schlabach repeatedly sought assistance from neighboring police agencies.

Ten minutes after the chase started, Mitchell's car went into a ditch in a remote area of the national forest.

The officer parked on the road, behind and to the left of Mitchell's car. Mitchell got out, closed the door, stepped away from his car, standing still for five or six seconds, then hiked up his pants.

Schlabach drew his gun and walked toward Mitchell, who had his back to the officer. Mitchell bent over, then stood upright and faced the officer.

They were about a car-length apart.

The judge described the fatal encounter:

"In the moment that Mitchell was turning to face Schlabach, the video clearly shows that Mitchell did not drop to the ground or put his hands in the air upon seeing Schlabach in his uniform with his service weapon drawn; instead, Mitchell started walking quickly in Schlabach's direction.

"As Mitchell was walking quickly toward Schlabach, Schlabach kept his weapon drawn and simultaneously took five or six quick steps backward. Notably, the video does not show that Mitchell had a weapon, but it does show that Mitchell was physically larger than Schlabach. While Mitchell continued to walk towards Schlabach, Schlabach fired once at Mitchell and hit him.

"Despite being shot, Mitchell continued to move toward Schlabach, so Schlabach took another step backward. As he was moving backward, Schlabach fired another shot at Mitchell, hitting him a second time. After this second shot Mitchell turned around, took five or six aimless steps away from Schlabach, and collapsed to the ground."

Schlabach handcuffed Mitchell and reported shots fired. He told a dispatcher that Mitchell "came right at me!"

Mitchell, initially reported conscious and breathing, died at the scene.

Backup officers showed up 90 seconds after the shooting.

Mitchell's family contended that he did not pose a serious physical threat to the officer and that the distance between the two men was "far greater" than a "reactionary gap" justifying use of deadly force.

The judge said the officer could have concluded Mitchell posed a threat based on his dangerous driving and refusal to comply with the officer's attempt to arrest him.

The judge said that "the video clearly portrays a situation in which a reasonable officer would believe Mitchell was capable of inflicting serious physical harm to himself or others, thereby justifying Schlabach's use of force."

John Agar covers crime and other issues for MLiveE-mail John Agar: jagar@mlive.com and follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/ReporterJAgar