Advertisement 2 other Stockton suspects ID'd; Police find drop-off car Vehicle found just a few miles from Bank of the West Share Copy Link Copy

The Stockton Police Department is trying to determine who dropped off three armed men before Wednesday's deadly bank robbery-turned-crime spree, officers said Friday.Watch report: Fourth suspect sought in deadly Stockton bank robbery (Editor's note: 6 p.m. version may contain outdated information).Police found the black getaway car they were seeking -- located not far from the Bank of the West where everything started Wednesday, several miles away -- but they still haven't caught up with the driver.The vehicle was found at 4215 West Creek Drive, police said. It has since been towed.Officers said they received many calls and tips after the media issued a photo of the used car, a black, four-door older-model Buick Century with tinted windows.It appeared the car had been spray-painted, but the paint job was done poorly. It had paper plates from a Stockton car lot on it, as well."We don’t know who the driver is or even have a description of the driver," Stockton Officer Joe Silva said earlier Friday. "But if anybody can recognize the car, we’re asking them to contact the police department immediately."Apparently, the plea for assistance from the public worked.The driver is accused of dropping off the three bank robbers, two of whom died in a shootout later that day.The robbers also took a hostage in the crime spree -- 41-year-old Misty Holt-Singh, who was killed after one of the suspects used her as a human shield in a shootout with police.The surviving suspect has been identified as 19-year-old Jaime Ramos.The two who died are Alex Gregory Martinez, 27, and Gilbert Renteria Jr., 30. "We’re still trying to figure out exactly what the motive was and why (the robbers) went to that bank," Silva said. "But we do know that this bank robbery -- they were (armed) with some very powerful weapons. And they had a lot of ammunition."They were ready, as we saw, if anyone got in their way. They were going to shoot and try to kill people to get away. But the exact reasons why they chose that bank or what got them there -- that’s what we’re still trying to figure out."In other new information released Friday, police said one of the hostages who works as a bank employee was, for a short time, the driver of the SUV that eventually led police on the chase.She got into the driver's seat and the three suspects and the other two hostages were her passengers, officers said.But as she drove away from the bank, one of the robbers shot her -- and then pushed her out of the SUV.The bank employee hostages have only been identified by their first names, Stephanie and Kelly. One of them is a manager.They've both been released from hospitals in the area, along with a security guard who was able to call 911 before he was tied up inside the bank.Police also estimate the number of officers who are now out on paid, administrative leave tied to Wednesday's investigation is more like 30."It's a three-day paid leave, so they should be able to start coming back to work at the end of this weekend," Silva said.On Thursday, police had said around 20 were on leave, which is standard protocol in a situation like this.At least three handguns have been recovered from the deadly bank robbery."(The) assault rifle was illegal," Silva said of the suspect's weapons. "One of the weapons that was being fired all the times at our officer was an AK-47-style assault weapon. We don’t know how they got that (or) where they got that. But we do know that it was a high-powered rifle that was illegal to have."Two of the robbers -- it's not clear which ones -- were documented Norteno gang members. The other hangs out with gangs but isn't documented."In January, (the) Bank of the West was robbed in similar fashion armed and stole an employee's vehicle," said Silva, adding that there's a good chance the same men were involved.KCRA 3's Mike Luery and Melinda Meza contributed to this report.--Inside KCRA.com:Remembering slain Stockton hostage: 'She was our rock'Photos: Holt-Singh family shares memories; 'I love you, mom'Slain Stockton hostage, 41, described as devoted momFormer gang member suspects drugs fueled deadly spree