ROANOKE -- A former federal drug agent who shot and killed a Roanoke man during a drunken argument was found not guilty of voluntary manslaughter yesterday.

During five days of testimony in Roanoke Circuit Court, jurors heard two versions of the fatal encounter between ex-Drug Enforcement Administration agent Timothy Workman and Keith Bailey. In the end, they believed Workman's account over that of prosecutors.

"This is a very joyous day for the Workman family," defense attorney Chris Kowalczuk said outside the courtroom. He added that Workman's tearful testimony, in which he told jurors he killed Bailey because he thought Bailey was going to kill him, was pivotal to convincing the jury of his innocence.

"Tim made the difference, and Tim has always been central. The fear he experienced that night -- he conveyed it."

According to prosecutors, Workman, now 37, killed Bailey during a fight over a woman outside a restaurant in February 2002. Assistant Commonwealth's Attorney Wanda DeWease said Workman provoked the fight when he gave the middle finger to Bailey, 41, and Bailey's friend, James Albert Bumbry, Jr.: "That was an invitation, a challenge."

According to Workman's defense attorney, though, there was never a fight. Bailey rushed at Workman and began choking him, forcing Workman to kill him in self-defense.

"That's not mutual combat," Kowalczuk told jurors during his closing argument. "This man [Workman] was without fault. It was the aggressive behavior of Bailey every step of the way."

Under Virginia law, mutual combat is one of the elements prosecutors have to show to prove voluntary manslaughter.

A Roanoke jury convicted Workman of voluntary manslaughter in late 2002, but the Virginia Supreme Court threw out the verdict and ordered a retrial after concluding that Workman's attorneys had not been given all the evidence.

On Feb. 12, 2002, Workman was a U.S. DEA agent based in Texas who had come to Roanoke on assignment. After a night of drinking at the bar of O'Charley's restaurant, Workman accompanied a woman, Melissa Booth, to her car, where the two sat and talked. It was about 2:15 a.m.

Bailey and Bumbry, who also had been drinking at the bar, pulled up in a car alongside Booth's and began yelling, Booth and Workman testified. Workman gave them a middle finger. Bailey got out of his car and came around to the passenger side of Booth's car, where Workman now stood.

DeWease said Workman, upset that the two men were interfering with his plans to romance Booth, exchanged words with Bailey, then the two began to grapple, and finally Workman pulled his 9-mm revolver from a back pocket and shot Bailey three times.

Describing the married Workman as an "Alpha male" out on the prowl for women, DeWease said Workman never backed down from the fight. "There's no retreat here," she said. "He's out there armed with a gun, standing his ground and ready to fight. He's ready and willing."

Kowalczuk, though, told jurors that Workman was not the provocateur, contending that Bailey and Bumbry started the deadly chain of events when they drove up and started yelling. When Workman gave them the middle finger, Kowalczuk said, it was his way of telling them to get lost.

Additionally, Workman testified that as he and Bailey struggled for his gun, he saw Bumbry standing nearby pulling a gun from his black leather jacket. Workman said he feared for his life when he pulled the trigger. Bumbry fled when Bailey was killed.

Bumbry, serving a federal prison sentence on unrelated charges, testified that he did not have a gun the night of the killing. But he acknowledged a string of convictions on assorted firearms charges.