UPDATE: A handgun was recovered from the Misubishi Eclipse that crashed earlier this week in Fauquier County in a single-vehicle accident that killed driver Corey M. Chamberlain, 24, of Marshall, according to the Virginia State Police.

Chamberlain was later found to have a gunshot wound.

The investigation into the circumstances surrounding the shooting remains ongoing. Anyone with information about the case is asked to call the VSP at (540) 829-7400.

INITIAL REPORT:

A high-speed chase, a fatal crash, an apparent gunshot wound and a reported drunk driver smashing into a state police cruiser all occurred in Fauquier County in a less-than 24-hour period Monday and Tuesday.

Virginia State Police Trooper J.T. Price suffered minor injuries Tuesday morning while attempting to investigate the scene of the earlier accident involving a fleeing motorist who, in addition to being thrown from his vehicle, had reportedly previously been shot, and later died.

Involved in the chase Monday night that ended near Liberty High School, Fauquier County Sheriff's Office deputies pursued a 2000 Mitsubishi Eclipse after authorities noticed it was tailgating a marked county cruiser, according to the FCSO. Continuing to tailgate the police vehicle as it turned onto U.S. 29, the Eclipse abruptly swerved into the left lane and passed at a high rate of speed.

The deputy attempted to initiate a traffic stop, but the vehicle continued south on U.S. 29, reaching speeds greater than 100 miles per hour, according to the FCSO. As the pursuit approached Bealeton, the Eclipse drove onto a median before overturning on Marsh Road.

Driver Corey M. Chamberlain, 24, of Marshall was ejected from the vehicle onto the road where deputies attempted to resuscitate him until EMS arrived. Chamberlain later died from his injuries at INOVA Fairfax Hospital.

Early Tuesday, VSP Trooper J.T. Price was notified by the hospital that Chamberlain had an apparent gunshot wound, causing state police to return to the scene of the accident on Marsh Road. While there, Price's police cruiser — with him in it — was struck by a 2006 Chevrolet in an unrelated incident.

The trooper was transported to Fauquier Hospital for treatment of minor injuries while the driver of the Chevrolet, Joseph R. Jenkins, 55, of Midland was charged with DUI and failure to move over for a stopped emergency vehicle.

Jenkins is being held at the Fauquier County Jail, according to the VSP.

The VSP Culpeper Field Office is investigating the circumstances surrounding Chamberlain's gunshot wound. Both crashes also remain under investigation.