Albuquerque police shot and killed an armed man Tuesday, after sources said the department was helping federal agents with a warrant.Police said Jeremy Robertson, 33, was approached by two plain clothed officers prior to the incident.They said he fled across Central Avenue, armed, through a Valero gas station parking lot near Central and Eubank Boulevard. They said he pulled a handgun from his waistband and was armed until the shots were fired, posing a threat to officers.They said two officers fired shots, and that two shots were fired in total. Robertson died a short time later.There was crime tape up at two gas stations in the area.PHOTOS: APD investigates officer-involved shootingSources said Robertson had a long criminal history, part of which involved taking law enforcement on a chase through Rio Rancho in January before getting his tires shot out.The Office of the Medical Investigator was on scene along with APD Chief Gorden Eden. Ambulance, police, fire crews and unmarked police cars were also on scene.Glorieta Road was shut down for the investigation.Tap or click for list of past 41 APD-involved shootingsThe names of the officers involved in Tuesday's shooting have not been released. It's unclear if Robertson pointed his gun at officers. It's also unclear if he fired at himself.Robertson has been arrested several times throughout the years, including a number of property crimes. Before he was killed police wanted him for violating the conditions of his probation. He'd been indicted for receiving or transferring stolen vehicles.This is the sixth time in fewer than six months that Albuquerque police have shot and killed someone. There have been 41 APD-involved shootings since 2010, 27 of which were fatal.Mobile users: Tap for video

Albuquerque police shot and killed an armed man Tuesday, after sources said the department was helping federal agents with a warrant.

Police said Jeremy Robertson, 33, was approached by two plain clothed officers prior to the incident.

Advertisement

They said he fled across Central Avenue, armed, through a Valero gas station parking lot near Central and Eubank Boulevard. They said he pulled a handgun from his waistband and was armed until the shots were fired, posing a threat to officers.

They said two officers fired shots, and that two shots were fired in total. Robertson died a short time later.

There was crime tape up at two gas stations in the area.

PHOTOS: APD investigates officer-involved shooting

Sources said Robertson had a long criminal history, part of which involved taking law enforcement on a chase through Rio Rancho in January before getting his tires shot out.

The Office of the Medical Investigator was on scene along with APD Chief Gorden Eden. Ambulance, police, fire crews and unmarked police cars were also on scene.



Glorieta Road was shut down for the investigation.

Tap or click for list of past 41 APD-involved shootings

The names of the officers involved in Tuesday's shooting have not been released. It's unclear if Robertson pointed his gun at officers. It's also unclear if he fired at himself.

Robertson has been arrested several times throughout the years, including a number of property crimes. Before he was killed police wanted him for violating the conditions of his probation. He'd been indicted for receiving or transferring stolen vehicles.

This is the sixth time in fewer than six months that Albuquerque police have shot and killed someone. There have been 41 APD-involved shootings since 2010, 27 of which were fatal.

Mobile users: Tap for video



