Carl Setterlund CORRESPONDENT

FOXBORO — It was a must-win game for New England at home on Saturday night against Chivas USA, the last-place team in the Western Conference.

With a once-promising season starting to fade, it figured that the player the Revolution has looked to all season would get them back on track.

Midfielder Lee Nguyen delivered again for the Revs, providing the only goal on a 57th-minute firecracker that sealed a 1-0 win in front of 16,427 at Gillette Stadium.

"I think Chivas came in with a game plan to really make it difficult for us, and they did." Revs coach Jay Heaps said. "We made a couple adjustments at halftime and we were able to open it up a little bit, but credit to them, they did a nice job."

The goal came off a cohesive team effort, starting with Diego Fagundez switching field to Kelyn Rowe on the right sideline. Rowe played a one-two with Daigo Kobayashi and when three Chivas defenders collapsed on him, Rowe was able to poke the ball through to Nguyen just outside the 18-yard box.

Nguyen did the rest, striking for his team-leading ninth goal of the season on a burner that curled right to left across goal to beat Goats keeper Dan Kennedy.

"Kelyn was pinching in early," said Heaps, citing a halftime adjustment to keep Rowe, usually a central midfielder, further out wide. "Once we get into that final third, the final quarter, we want Kelyn's width and that's exactly what we got there."

The win is just New England's second in the last 12 games, although in the weaker Eastern Conference the Revs (9-12-3) are just one point behind the New York Red Bulls — who also won on Saturday — for the fifth and final playoff spot.

"It wasn't dominating on the scoreboard, but I think if you go back and look at the stats it was close to 70 percent possession, at halftime we were at close to 86 percent passing (accuracy), so we had our way with the ball," Heaps said.

With 10 games remaining in the season, the Revolution will try for another win next weekend away to Toronto where the team won for the first time ever earlier this season. After that, the Revs return to Gillette for three straight home games.

While Nguyen provided the winner, it also took a stellar effort by goalkeeper Bobby Shuttleworth (4 saves) to pocket his sixth shutout of the season. He made a key diving save at the bottom right corner on a Felix Borja try in the 18th minute.

Heaps said Shuttleworth "gave us a spark to go forward a little bit more."

It's worth noting that Chivas USA (6-12-6) was shorthanded after a pair of recent transactions.

Designated player and team assist leader Mauro Rosales was shipped to Vancouver on Thursday in exchange for former English Premier League midfielder Nigel Reo-Coker, who has not yet joined the team.

The Goats traded for another potential starter, Jhon Kennedy Hurtado, on Friday, but he was also unavailable.

The Revs introduced a newcomer of their own in the 81st minute, as former U.S. men's youth international Tony Taylor came on for forward Charlie Davies. Taylor, now 25, had spent the past four years playing in Portugal and Cyprus.

Contact Carl Setterlund at sports@telegram.com.