With a jury waiting to deliberate, a federal judge on Tuesday tossed out a wrongful death lawsuit filed against a Knoxville Police Department officer who fatally shot an unarmed parolee in the back.

Chief U.S. District Judge Tom Varlan ruled Tuesday attorney Richard M. Brooks failed – after nearly three years of litigation and a day’s worth of trial testimony in U.S. District Court – to present enough evidence to allow the jury to even consider whether Knoxville Police Department Officer David Gerlach had the legal right to use deadly force against parolee Ronald E. Carden.

Previous coverage:Court says officer who shot unarmed, fleeing suspect can't claim immunity

Knoxville crime:Suspect to be charged with murder of teen after shooting

Gerlach fatally shot Carden, 45, in an encounter that began on the Interstate 40 ramp at the West Hills interchange in July 2014. The initial encounter between the two men was captured on police dash cam footage. The shooting occurred out of camera range when Carden began running up a hill after throwing punches at Gerlach. The officer’s microphone captured audio.

Judge: Proof lacking

An autopsy showed all five shots were fired into Carden’s backside and three of those were fired after Carden had been felled by the initial round of bullets. Carden’s body was at least a foot and as much as three feet away from the barrel of Gerlach’s gun when the shots were fired.

Carden’s son sued, and Brooks contended Carden was unarmed and running away from Gerlach when he was mortally wounded. Gerlach contended Carden attacked him out of camera range, tried to grab his gun, showed no reaction to shots fired from a Taser stun gun and was still fighting Gerlach when the officer opened fire with his gun.

What it's like:I tried a judgmental shooting simulator with the TBI. Here's what I learned.

Tennessee news:Waffle House shooting suspect's $2 million bond revoked

But Brooks offered up no evidence or expert witnesses either before trial or during this week’s trial to contradict Gerlach’s account. The only witnesses presented during the trial, which began Monday, were Gerlach and Knox County Deputy Medical Examiner Dr. Christopher Lochmuller.

Varlan said he had no choice but to dismiss the case via what is known as a directed verdict – a rare move in which a judge steps in to prevent a jury from deciding a case based on legally insufficient evidence.

“Defendant Gerlach (testified) that (Carden) was engaged in a struggle with defendant Gerlach,” Varlan said. “(Gerlach) stated that (Carden) tried to grab his weapon, again which the parties have also stipulated to, and he further stated that at one point, (Carden) had his hands on the barrel of the gun.

“(Brooks) has presented no evidence to contradict this testimony,” the judge continued. “Only two seconds elapsed between when the first and the fifth shot were fired … A reasonable jury could not find that the initial struggle between (Carden) and defendant Gerlach had (stopped) and that (Carden) had already started to flee.

“In other words, (Brooks’) theory or argument that (Carden) was not only unarmed but was attempting to flee at the time he was shot is unsupported by the evidence presented by (Brooks),” Varlan concluded.

Attorney Jerome Melson, on behalf of Gerlach, and Deputy Law Director Ron Mills, on behalf of KPD, successfully convinced the judge to take that rare step.

A parolee, a flat tire and a fight

Carden had just been released on parole on a 1996 conviction for abducting a woman at gunpoint from a motel on Asheville Highway, taking her vehicle and leaving her tied to a tree. He had a syringe in his sock and part of a Suboxone pill — an opiate used to treat opiate addiction — in his jeans pocket when he wound up with a flat tire on the Interstate 40 ramp at the West Hills interchange.

Gerlach had stopped to help, unaware Carden was a parolee. Carden told Gerlach he didn’t need help, and Gerlach was preparing to leave when he learned the license plate on the car was not registered for that vehicle. Gerlach, dash cam footage showed, confronted Carden.



Carden threw two punches, neither of which struck the officer, and ran up a nearby hill. The two wound up on the ground with Carden on top of Gerlach. The officer tried to disable him via a stun gun but wound up shocking himself instead.

Two seconds, five shots

The autopsy findings suggested Carden had turned to run from Gerlach when the officer fired five shots in rapid succession. But Brooks did not offer up an expert on the use of deadly force – when it’s legally appropriate and when it’s not – or an expert to examine the likely position of Carden’s body when the five shots were fired.

Varlan noted the U.S. Supreme Court and the Tennessee Supreme Court have each ruled an “officer may use deadly force if he has probable cause to believe the individual poses a significant threat of violence to the officer.”

With Brooks offering no counter to Gerlach’s account of the shooting, Varlan said the “jury could reasonably come to but one conclusion, that is, that (Gerlach) acted in a reasonable manner when he discharged his weapon and killed (Carden) because he was acting in self-defense in response to a significant threat of violence.”