A 19-year-old Oakland man remained in the Orange County Jail July 30 on charges stemming from a reported carjacking that ended with the death of his alleged accomplice.

Kenneth Tyrone Linton was booked at the jail July 28, ­the day after the alleged crime occurred. He faces charges of carjacking and fleeing/eluding police while traveling at a high rate of speed with a wanton disregard for the safety of others and causing serious bodily injury or death.

Law-enforcement officials said Linton and David Alonzo Jones, 17, also of Oakland, carjacked a 24-year-old man at gunpoint at the man’s residence in the 500 block of West Henschen Avenue in Oakland shortly before 11 p.m. July 27.

Linton stuck a gun in the car owner’s face before getting in the driver’s seat of the man’s 1998 BMW, Winter Garden Police Lt. Scott Allen and Oakland Police Lt. John Peek said.

While hearing Oakland Police being dispatched to the scene, Winter Garden Police officers stationed themselves at several locations in the area. The officers saw the car at state roads 50 and 535 in Winter Garden and ended up chasing it down Florida's Turnpike, Allen said.

The vehicle was traveling southbound on the turnpike at a high rate of speed, a Florida Highway Patrol report stated. The driver tried to exit onto I-4 but failed to negotiate the curve and lost control of the vehicle, which rolled over multiple times, according to FHP and Oakland Police reports. Jones was killed and Linton was critically injured after both were ejected from the car.

The BMW’s owner told police that Linton and Jones had confronted him shortly after he departed his idling car to close the front gate at his residence. The man had intended on leaving to pick up his wife from work, an Oakland Police report stated.

Linton pointed a small, black handgun at the man and told him, “Don’t move, or I will shoot you right here. Don’t move,” the report stated.

According to the report, the man told police that his small dog, a "mutt," was in his vehicle when it was stolen. FHP spokeswoman Sgt. Kim Montes said the dog was injured in the car crash but was taken to an emergency veterinarian and was expected to survive.