This heart-stopping footage shows a Texas cop's brush with death as a suspect appears to surrender - then pulls a gun and fired four shots at him.

A split-second firefight then erupts, in which Andra Gibson, an officer with the police department of Hedwig Village, near Houston, downs Emilio Solis with a series of fatal gunshots.

Despite Solis letting off the first shots, and even brushing the officer's uniform, Officer Gibson was left unharmed in the deadly exchange this summer.

Hands up: Emilio Solis pulled over his car and made a gesture of surrender - but immediately pulled a gun and tried to kill police officer Andra Gibson

Hedwig Village police released footage of the incident this week, which shows the 17-shot gunfight between Gibson and Solis, who had been stopped after a car chase, according to Fox 26.

The footage shows Solis fire several shots towards the patrol car dash cam. Three embedded themselves in the windshield.

Another tore through the leg of Officer Gibson's pants, but did not make contact with his body.

Pulls a gun: Almost as soon as he raised he hands, Solis spun round and fired at least four shots at Officer Gibson. Three hit the car windshield, and the fourth brushed his uniform but did not injure him

Officer Gibson then returned fire, at which point Solis collapsed to the ground. A backup car quickly arrives, and the lights illuminate Solis laying on the ground not far from his vehicle.

He later died on the way to hospital.

The policeman had first tired to pull Solis over for making an illegal turn, but the routine stop escalated into a chase.

After the firefight: Officer Gibson, seen in front of his car, fatally shot Solis in the confrontation in July this year. Video has just been released

Downed: Solis, shown left, died on his way to hospital. Backup arrived soon after the firefight

Solis pulled over to let out a passenger before speeding off again. At points in the chase he drove the wrong way in an attempt to shake off the officer.

It later emerged that Solis was wanted in Los Angeles on drug charges. He was also suspected of being involved in seven aggravated burglaries shortly before he was killed.

David Gott, chief of Hedwig Village police, said: 'No doubt about it. God was on his side.

'The officer is also a pastor in his off-duty time. I don't know if that helped. But it certainly didn't hurt.'

The start: Gibson started pursuing Solis because he made an illegal right turn on a red light

False stop: The chase appeared to be over soon after - but Solis only stopped briefly to let his passenger, right, make a run for it