Jason Anderson/Record Staff Writer

STOCKTON – The California Highway Patrol has identified an officer who remains on paid administrative leave nearly three weeks after fatally shooting a knife-wielding man in a northeast Stockton orchard.

Officer Ben Schiesser, a six-year veteran of the Stockton-area CHP Office, has not returned to work since the shooting, said Officer James Smith, a spokesman for the Highway Patrol. Schiesser must first complete a fitness for duty review, which includes gun-range certification, arrest procedure testing and a psychological examination, officials said.

The review is standard procedure when CHP officers are involved in shootings, Smith said. The time it takes to complete the review varies depending on a number of factors, Smith said.

Schiesser responded to a report of a reckless driver shortly after 3 p.m. Aug. 2 near East Foppiano Lane and Oneto Road, east of Highway 99, authorities said. The driver was later identified by the San Joaquin County Coroner’s Office as Steve Matthew Doll, 40, of Stockton.

Witnesses said Doll was driving 60 to 80 mph, nearly struck other vehicles, left the roadway and continued south through a field before crashing his truck into a tree in a cherry orchard on the east side of the railroad tracks near the south end of Oneto Road.

Schiesser arrived to find the truck still in the orchard, Smith said. As Schiesser approached, Doll quickly got out of the truck and advanced toward the officer with a knife, Smith said.

Schiesser ordered Doll to drop the knife, but Doll did not comply, Smith said. Schiesser then fired his weapon, striking Doll at least once, Smith said. Schiesser administered first aid, but Doll was pronounced dead at the scene, Smith said.

The Highway Patrol, the San Joaquin County Sheriff’s Office and the San Joaquin County District Attorney’s Office are reviewing the incident as part of a multiagency protocol investigation, which also is standard procedure in all officer-involved shootings, Smith said.

Contact reporter Jason Anderson at (209) 546-8279 or janderson@recordnet.com. Follow him at recordnet.com/crimeblog and on Twitter @Stockton911.