Crime & Safety Deputy Who Shot, Killed Suspect Earlier this Month Indentified The sheriff's deputy who shot and killed a suspect in East Oakland earlier this month was identified today as a deputy with the ACSO. Reply

A sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed a suspect in East Oakland earlier this month was identified today as a deputy with the Alameda County sheriff’s K-9 unit who is being sued in federal court for another on-duty incident last year. Deputy Derek Thoms was identified by Oakland police today as the deputy who shot and killed 23-year-old Jacorey Calhoun after a pursuit that ended in the area of 105th and Edes avenues on Aug. 3.

According to police, Calhoun was a suspect in a July 12 home invasion robbery and pistol-whipping in the 4700 block of MacArthur Boulevard. At about 4 a.m. on Aug. 3, police near 55th and Fairfax avenues noticed a 2001 Volvo C70 suspected to be involved in the robbery and tried to stop it. The driver did not stop and the officers started a pursuit of the car but later lost sight of it. It was spotted again in the area of 105th and Edes, police said. The driver got out of the car and ran into nearby yards, police said. Officers set up a perimeter to search for the suspect with the assistance of the Alameda County sheriff’s K-9 unit. Thoms then shot and killed Calhoun. Oakland police said today that a weapon was not recovered at the scene, but they have not said what led to the shooting or why Calhoun was shot.

Alameda County sheriff’s spokesman Sgt. J.D. Nelson said today that he was asked by Oakland police not to comment on the case. But an attorney for Calhoun’s family said that Calhoun was unarmed and fleeing from the officers when he was shot in the head. Attorney John Burris said that the sheriff’s deputy involved, now identified as Thoms, was the only officer who opened fire, despite that it was an Oakland police operation. Burris said today that he is planning to file a lawsuit on behalf of Calhoun’s family. “This is a classic example of wanton disregard for human life,” Burris said. “We’re moving on this case pretty aggressively.” Thoms was named in a lawsuit filed in federal court in Oakland earlier this year by a San Leandro resident who claims that the deputy ordered his dog to bite him as he stood outside of his apartment.

The lawsuit filed in January claims that on March 23, 2013, Thoms and another deputy were investigating a possible break-in at an apartment building and as they came up the stairs, they encountered Juventino Rodarte and the dog bit him in the calf. Rodarte claims he passed out after the dog bit him and was taken to Eden Medical Center for treatment. The sheriff’s office does not dispute that the dog bit Rodarte in front of his apartment, but claims that he was seated in front of his door and did not show his hands when ordered to. Deputies saw a metal object in his hands and, fearing it was a weapon, apprehended him, according to court records. The case is set to go to jury trial next year.