‘I really hope they rot in prison for a very long time,’ says Lisa Kepler, whose cop parents are accused of killing her boyfriend right in front of her. (Tulsa World)

The daughter of two Tulsa police officers turned in her parents, saying her dad shot her boyfriend to death in the street and then fired at her as she cowered behind a bush.

Her mother was in the passenger seat when her father got out of his car and started shooting, Lisa Kepler told police.

Advertisement

Shannon and Gina Kepler, both 24-year veterans of the Tulsa Police Department, were arrested late Tuesday after they turned themselves in while accompanied by an attorney, the Tulsa World reported.

A sobbing Lisa Kepler, 18, told local reporters, "I really hope they rot in prison for a very long time." She said she called police and reported the incident. "I turned my dad in," she said.

Advertisement

The body of Jeremy Lake, 19, was found in the street in front of his home, where he and Lisa Kepler had been living, police said.

According to the daughter, she and Lake were walking home when a black SUV pulled up and her dad got out, shouting at her.

"I walked away and Jeremy tried to introduce himself, and my dad shot him," KJRH-TV reported.

Jeremy Lake, 19, was shot to death in the street in front of his Tulsa home, according to police. His new girlfriend’s parents, both of them police officers, are accused in his death. (Facebook)

Lisa Kepler said she ran behind a bush and hid after her father fired shots at her. Then he sped off, she said.

Dad Shannon Kepler, 54, is accused of first-degree murder and shooting with intent to kill. Mom Gina Kepler, 48, is accused of being an accessory to murder.

The daughter said her parents kicked her out of the house the week before and dropped her in front of the Tulsa Day Center for the Homeless. She met Lake there and they began dating. He offered her a place to stay at the home he shared with his aunt, she said.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 2 Shannon Kepler, a Tulsa cop, is accused of murdering his daughter’s boyfriend and of shooting at his own child. (AP)

The Keplers are being held without bail pending the filing of formal charges, police said.

On a mobile device? Click here to see the video.