Therese Apel

The Clarion-Ledger

A man and woman are dead after a domestic dispute in Canton this morning, Madison County Coroner Alex Breeland said.

Torrez Harris, 52, shot his stepdaughter, Melissa Primer, 29, in front of her home, then fled to a laundromat down the street where he was shot by police.

Breeland said Primer died at the University of Mississippi Medical Center around 12:09 p.m. after she was flown there by helicopter. Harris died after a shootout with police down the street.

Primer's Facebook page shows a photo of three children as her cover photo.

Harris died around 9:45 a.m. of multiple gunshot wounds, Breeland said.

Canton talk radio station WMGO reported this morning that Primer was shot in a domestic dispute in a home at 917 East Peace Street around 10 a.m., across from the American Medical Response office. AMR employees stabilized her until she could be flown out.

Harris fled to a laundromat up the street at 1070 East Peace Street, WGMO reported, and when police caught up with him, shots were exchanged.

Witnesses told reporters that they saw the man lying in the laundromat and he appeared to have been hit.

Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman Warren Strain said MBI is assisting with the case, but that Madison County Sheriff's Office is the lead agency.

Sheriff Randy Tucker told WAPT Harris told customers at the laundromat to get out because police were coming and he was not going to jail.

"One of my officers, as well as a Canton officer, became involved in a chase of a suspect and cornered the suspect in the coin laundry you see behind me," Tucker told a reporter. "Officers tried to reason with the gentleman and get him to put his weapons down. He did not comply with those orders. He in turn raised his firearm at the officers, and unfortunately, the officers had to discharge their weapons and the suspect is deceased at this time."

Canton police were not available to comment on or confirm the incident.

This is a developing story. We will update as more information becomes available.