Family members have identified the man killed in a shootout with an East Texas police officer early Monday morning as Eddie Davis, known to family and friends as Mr. Eddie.

t's not clear what prompted the first shots to be fired, or who shot them. But the gunfire killed the man and left the De Kalb officer injured.

De Kalb, Texas Police say it happened sometime after 1:00 a.m., when one of their officers and a Bowie County Deputy responded to a disturbance call in the 200 block of Pecan St.

Shareni Williams say they were shocked when they saw Davis confront a De Kalb police officer.

BOWIE CO., TX (KSLA) - De Kalb police chief Shawne Walraven released more information about what led to the deadly shooting of an East Texas man early Monday morning.

Walraven said De Kalb police officer Sharon Coleman and a Bowie County sheriff's deputy arrived at Eddie Davis' home and were met with gunfire inside the residence as soon as the back door opened.

"Officer Coleman did not initially return fire, but rather attempted to use a Taser in an effort to stop the aggression," he said.

Walraven said Coleman missed Davis with the Taser and her body camera clearly shows that she ordered him to drop his gun several times. Walraven said the sheriff's deputy involved also shouted for Davis to drop his gun.

"Davis refused to put the weapon down and instead fired several more shots at the officers, at which time both officers returned fire. During the exchange, officer Coleman was shot in the left leg and Davis was fatally shot," he added.

Walraven said that Coleman and the deputy then took cover until backup arrived.

Coleman has been employed with the De Kalb Police Department for two years. She is a licensed Master Peace Officer from Dallas, which means she has reached the top level for officers in most licensing jurisdictions or state agencies.



Family members maintain that Eddie Davis didn't deserve to be treated that way.



Still, other witnesses in the home say they have no doubt that if the police officer hadn't returned fire when the man they knew as "Mr. Eddie" started shooting, they may well have died.



"If that officer hadn't been so courageous like she was, I mean, we...it might have been us that would have gotten either wounded or killed," Kayla Reed said.



She and her friend Shareni Williams say they were shocked when they saw Davis confront a De Kalb police officer.



"Never seen anything like that. Never," an emotional Williams said.



It all happened around 1 a.m., when De Kalb police sent one of their officers and a Bowie County deputy to a disturbance call at the home.



"The police came," recalls Williams. "He didn't want to open the door."



Within seconds it turned into a shootout, and they say "Mr. Eddie" started shooting first. The officer stood her ground and fired back. She was backed up by a Bowie County sheriff's deputy.



"They did, she tried her best. I mean, that's just the best she could do. She did," Williams said. "I mean, while the shots was coming, she just stood right there and tried to, you know, do her part."



Coleman was shot in the leg, treated at a local hospital and released.



"I'm sad that this had to happen to him," Williams said. "That was a good man. He didn't do nothing wrong to nobody."



They describe Davis as peaceful and friendly.

Coleman is on paid medical leave pending the investigation. Her body camera video has been turned over to the Texas Rangers Division with the Texas Department of Public Safety.

Copyright 2014 KSLA. All rights reserved.

