The man accused of shooting four people last Friday kills himself Tuesday morning after a confrontation with Albuquerque police.

Advertisement APD: Shooting suspect Marcos Delgado dead Shooting suspect Marcos Delgado kills himself, police say Share Copy Link Copy

The man accused of shooting four people last Friday killed himself Tuesday morning after a confrontation with Albuquerque police.Albuquerque police hunted for Marcos Delgado for three days.“The detectives were actively following tips and leads throughout the weekend,” said APD Deputy Chief Eric Garcia.It was a tip that led Albuquerque officers to a white car near 12th and Candelaria Tuesday morning. Albuquerque police said they were conducting an investigation when Delgado started shooting at them with a high-powered rifle and took off. “He began firing at them with a high-powered rifle,” Garcia said.Albuquerque police captured Delgado fleeing on foot on video from a surveillance copter overhead.Officers tried to locate Delgado and when they found him, they said he had died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Police said one witness saw a person in the street turn a gun on himself. They said nearby residents heard gunshots, which were eventually followed by the sound of sirens and a helicopter."I got scared (when I heard) the seventh or eighth one," said resident Martha Mirabel. "That's when I called 911."Police also said Delgado had two guns Tuesday morning. They said one was a rifle, which he used to fire on detectives as they approached. They said the hand gun was used to take his own life.It's unclear if either of those guns were used Friday.Albuquerque police said officers didn't fire their weapons at any point during Tuesday's incident. Police say they need to finish piecing together the puzzle that will tell them where he was during the weekend.“Any location he’s been on, any vehicle he’s been in, any resident’s he’s been in, could have possible evidence,” Garcia said.Police arrested Rafael Reza and Josephine Bailey Tuesday. Both were in the car with Delgado Tuesday morning. They're expected to be charged with harboring a felon.Investigators say they don’t know how the pair is connected to Delgado.Delgado was wanted in connection to a shooting last Friday afternoon at an auto detailing shop. Delgado's ex was killed during that shooting, and three others were injured.MOBILE USERS tap here for video