Investigation into Incident at 11960 Airline Drive

August 14, 2014 - Houston police are investigating the fatal shooting of a suspect who shot a Houston police officer at 11960 Airline Drive about 2:35 p.m. on Wednesday (August 13).



The identity of the suspect is pending verification by the Harris County Institute of Forensic Sciences.



The wounded officer, who also discharged his weapon, J. Calhoun, assigned to the North Patrol Division, was transported to Memorial Hermann Hospital in stable condition and later released. Officer Calhoun was sworn in as an officer in June 2008.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant J. Rhoads and Officer R. Ridel reported:



Officer Calhoun and a female officer were dispatched to a suspicious person with a weapon call at the apartment complex at 11960 Airline, near a bus stop. Officers were given a description of the male and drove to the scene. Upon arrival, the officers located the individual, who had been described as the suspicious male, by observing his appearance and clothing. As the officers approached the male, he attempted to flee on foot. Officer Calhoun grabbed the suspect. As the two struggled, the suspect discharged a semi-automatic pistol at Officer Calhoun. By this time, the female officer had also grabbed the suspect and all three fell to the ground. The two officers landed on top of the suspect. The suspect still grasped his pistol in both of his hands, but the female officer grabbed the forearms and wrists of the suspect so as not to allow him to discharge his weapon again. As the suspect continued to turn the pistol around to fire it, Officer Calhoun discharged his weapon, striking the suspect. The suspect was transported to Houston Northwest Medical Center where he was pronounced dead. Officer Calhoun was transported to Memorial Hermann Hospital where he suffered an injury to his left side, after the bullet had struck his body armor vest.



As is customary in HPD officer-involved shooting incidents in the city limits, this case is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions, as well as the Harris County District Attorney's Office.



JFC/VHS 8-14-14

Inc #102070914