MUSCLE SHOALS, Alabama -- Several new details have been released regarding Wednesday's fatal police standoff at Arbor Village apartments in Muscle Shoals.

Muscle Shoals police responded to a call of shots fired close to 11:30 a.m. They found a woman had been shot and as they were helping her, they were fired upon from the apartment. Colbert County Coroner Carlton Utley confirmed the woman's brother, 35-year-old Reagan Lee Jones, was the shooter.

What followed was an almost 4-hour standoff as the suspect barricaded himself inside and repeatedly shot at police. The Florence Police Department's SWAT team, county deputies and firefighters all responded.

Florence Police Chief Ron Tyler addressed media Thursday morning and gave more information on what happened. He said SWAT was there as backup for Muscle Shoals officers and to evacuate the apartments. He described a scene of immediate danger in which bullets were fired from the apartment many times from a high-powered assault rifle, putting police and civilian lives in danger. He said orders were shouted at the suspect, but no dialogue was ever established.

Tyler said officers were stationed in five surrounding apartments and all of them were fired upon at various points. He said one of the SWAT officers was hit by shrapnel during this time but was not injured.

He said the standoff ended after another SWAT officer who was covering a Muscle Shoals officer fired two rounds into the apartment. He said the shooting from within the apartment stopped at that point. The cease-fire allowed officers to blow the door and gain access. They found Jones dead.

Tyler said it is still not known if Jones was killed by the officer's bullets or if he killed himself. The Alabama Bureau of Investigation has taken over the investigation and will release more details when they are known. Jones' body has been sent to the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences in Huntsville for an autopsy.

Utley said Jones was angry over being denied an immediate appointment at a mental health facility Wednesday. He was given an appointment for a later date instead. His sister went over to his apartment to help him when he shot her. She was airlifted to Huntsville Hospital, treated and released.

Tyler said the officer who fired the rounds has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the ABI investigation, which is standard protocol. He stands by his officer's actions, saying it was warranted because of the immediate danger to police and civilians. He said the officer's actions were very "reasonable." He said those were the only two shots fired by any of the authorities at the scene despite the heavy gunfire they were taking, which he said showed great discipline on all of the agencies' parts.