People embrace at the scene where a Knoxville police cadet and another person were killed and two other people were injured early Saturday morning, Aug. 16, 2014, in Inskip. Police Chief David Rausch said that the shooting happened at about 11:30 p.m. Friday after the cadet had an argument with his girlfriend. (John Messner/Special to the News Sentinel)

SHARE Emergency personnel transport a woman at the scene where a Knoxville police cadet and another person were killed and two other people were injured early Saturday morning, Aug. 16, 2014, in Inskip. Police Chief David Rausch said that the shooting happened at about 11:30 p.m. Friday after the cadet had an argument with his girlfriend. (John Messner/Special to the News Sentinel) Emergency personnel transport a woman at the scene where a Knoxville police cadet and another person were killed and two other people were injured early Saturday morning, Aug. 16, 2014, in Inskip. Police Chief David Rausch said that the shooting happened at about 11:30 p.m. Friday after the cadet had an argument with his girlfriend. (John Messner/Special to the News Sentinel) Police officers work the scene where a Knoxville police cadet and another person were killed and two other people were injured early Saturday morning, Aug. 16, 2014, in Inskip. Police Chief David Rausch said that the shooting happened at about 11:30 p.m. Friday after the cadet had an argument with his girlfriend. (John Messner/Special to the News Sentinel) Police officers work the scene where a Knoxville police cadet and another person were killed and two other people were injured early Saturday morning, Aug. 16, 2014, in Inskip. Police Chief David Rausch said that the shooting happened at about 11:30 p.m. Friday after the cadet had an argument with his girlfriend. (John Messner/Special to the News Sentinel)

By Staff And Wire Reports

KNOXVILLE — A Knoxville police cadet, 21, and a 28-year-old man have been killed and two others injured in a shooting stemming from a family feud, according to police.

Cadet Michael William Little, 21, of Knoxville, was shot and killed after he allegedly gunned down Travis Donald Wegener, 28, of Anderson County, at the home of Little’s ex-girlfriend, police said.

Little also shot his ex-girlfriend and her mother, seriously injuring her mother, at their home, at 5206 Inskip Road, at approximately 11:28 p.m. Friday, police said.

When officers arrived on the scene they discovered four people had been shot. Wegener was pronounced dead at the scene. Little was pronounced dead upon arrival at University of Tennessee Medical Center, authorities said.

Little’s former girlfriend, Ashley Womack, 18, was transported to UT Medical Center where she was treated and released for a gunshot wound to her leg.

Her mother, Rhonda Womack, 47, is currently listed in serious condition at UT Medical Center with a gunshot wound to her upper shoulder.

According to the preliminary investigation, Little went to the Inskip Road residence to see his ex-girlfriend. The two had been separated for a couple of weeks. After arriving at the Womack home, Little spoke to the family and Wegener, a family friend, all gathered on the back patio of the residence.

After the conversation Little was walking down the driveway toward his vehicle when he pulled a .45 caliber handgun and shot Ashley’s mother and Wegener.

Little then went to the back of the home and shot Ashley Womack, police said. The teen’s brother, 22-year-old Joshua Womack, tried to protect his family by retrieving a .22 caliber rifle from inside the home. Little was shot more than once during an exchange of gunfire between the two.

Joshua Womack and his father, Guy Womack, were not injured.

Little was a cadet for the department. The cadet program is designed for individuals 21 years old and younger to get a look at career opportunities within law enforcement, according to Darrell DeBusk, public information officer for the Knoxville Police Department.

Cadets typically answer phone calls from citizens, issue parking citations, and assist officers on various assignments. Cadets are non-sworn civilian employees and are not issued a handgun, he said in a news release.

Police Chief David Rausch told media outlets earlier in the day that cadets are not issued firearms and the weapon used was not issued by the police department.