UPDATE: Cerritos College Police Chief Richard Bukowiecki Dead From Suicide; Autopsy Underway



UPDATE: 4:44 p.m.

HMG-CN has learned that Cerritos College Police Chief Richard Bukowiecki died due to a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Bukowiecki had apparently checked himself into a Super 8 Motel located at the 15500 Block of Beach Boulevard in Westminster sometime over this past weekend.

The Orange County Coroner confirmed to HMG-CN that the incident took place at 3:30 a.m. on Monday morning. He was a resident of Huntington Beach and was 47 years old.

UPDATE: 10:40 a.m.

HMG-CN can confirm that Bukowiecki died in Westminster and that members of the Westminster Police Department informed officials at Cerritos College on Monday about the death.

HMG-CN is also being told by sources that Bukowiecki’s body was found in a hotel/motel room.

Cerritos College President Lacy said in an email that Bukowiecki was 47 years old. “He proudly served Cerritos College for 26 years, and as the Chief of Campus Police for 8 years. In 2012, ‘Buk’ was named the Outstanding Classified Manager of the Year.”

“Chief Bukowiecki was known for his calm demeanor and professionalism. Whether he was addressing the Faculty Senate or student leadership, leading an investigation, or managing an emergency, he was composed and in control of the situation,” Lacy said in her email.

UPDATE: 10:21 a.m.

Cerritos College President Linda Lacy has confirmed in an email that Chief Bukowiecki died by suicide on August 18.

“It is natural to wonder why in this situation. We do

not and may not ever know the reason. Suicide is rarelyattributed to one reason or triggered by one event,” Lacy remarked in an email obtained by HMG-CN.

“This is a tragedy. The Cerritos College family is deeply saddened by the death of Chief Bukowiecki. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family, friends, colleagues,staff, and fellow officers who are grieving,” Lacy wrote in the email obtained by HMG-CN.

UPDATE, TUESDAY, AUGUST 19, 10 a.m.

Hews Media Group-Community Newspaper can confirm that an official autopsy on the body of Cerritos College Police Chief Richard Bukowiecki will be conducted today in Santa Ana, according to Orange County Coroner Spokeswoman Erica Arellano.

Arellano did confirm that Bukowiecki died in Orange County, but would not elaborate on specifics of this case.

More details to follow as they develop.

ORIGINAL POST, MONDAY, AUGUST 18, 11 p.m.

By Brian Hews

EXCLUSIVE! Hews Media Group-Community Newspaper has learned that the top law enforcement officer at Cerritos College has apparently taken his own life over this past weekend.

According to an email from Superintendent Linda Lacy, she informed members of the Board of Trustees late Monday about the death of Campus Police Chief Richard “Buk” Bukowiecki.

“The College has received very tragic news this afternoon. We are saddened to have learned that Campus Police Chief Richard “Buk” Bukowiecki has unexpectedly passed away. Additional information will be forthcoming,” Lacy said in a circulated email..

“We have arranged for grief counselors to be available through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Counseling services are available 24/7 by calling 1-800-531-0200. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Buk’s family, friends, colleagues, staff, and fellow officers during this very difficult time,” Lacy wrote.

Even though Lacy did not elaborate on the cause of death, at least two high ranking officials at Cerritos College told HMG-CN that the Bukowiecki’s death was from “an apparent suicide.”

HMG-CN will be having additional updates as they develop.

Related articles