Linda Kush Woburn@wickedlocal.com

A divided Woburn City Council meeting changed the definitions of light and heavy manufacturing in the Woburn zoning ordinance last week. The measure passed 6 to 3, with Alderman-At-Large Michael Concannon, Ward Two Alderman Richard Gately and Ward Five Alderman Darlene Mercer-Bruen voting against it.

The new language explicitly excludes scrap metal processing and other practices from the definition, effectively banning them in Woburn without a special permit. Ward Six Alderman Michael Raymond initiated the measure in response to a protracted legal battle between the city and Woburn Truck and Auto LLC over its scrap metal business in North Woburn.

In a petition for a special permit, Woburn Truck and Auto LLC had argued earlier this year that recycling scrap metal is heavy manufacturing and therefore allowed under certain conditions in the I-G (General Industrial) district. The company’s counsel cited several tax cases in which courts have ruled that processing scrap metal, converting logs to lumber and recycling paper are manufacturing because a company buys material, converts it into something more valuable and resells it at a higher price.

But to Raymond, the operation was not manufacturing, but rather, a junkyard.

According to Woburn’s new definition, the manufacturing process must be “free from agents disturbing to the neighborhood, such as odors, gas fumes, smoke, cinders, flashing or excessively bright lights, refuse matter, electro-magnetic radiation, heat, vibration or other adverse environmental effect, provided there is no outside storage of materials or finished goods, but excluding heavy industrial operations such as asphalt, block, concrete, steel or fertilizer manufacturing, heavy forging processes, scrap metal processing, garbage and refuse incineration or the disposal of other material not originating on the premises, except as produced by the City of Woburn.”

Raymond originally included “bottling” in the list of excluded practices, but he removed the word at the meeting in response to a request from a local developer. An officer of Woburn’s Cummings Properties had asked that it be deleted because including it could have discouraged some research and development businesses. These firms regularly bottle small batches of pilot products.

To Concannon and Mercer-Bruen, the last-minute revision bolstered their argument that the new definition could block existing and future businesses that the city in fact welcomed.

“This brings up again what I’ve said before. This ordinance as written has the potential to hurt some businesses in ways that we aren’t aware of,” said Mercer-Bruen.

Concannon agreed, warning that the ordinance would “open a can of worms.”

“As far as I know, the definition of manufacturing has worked OK for many years, and then a certain business tried to start,” said Concannon. “I think this is in response to that. I’d prefer to deal with it head on. We’ve taken a specific situation and used broad language against them. I think it’s the wrong way to go.”

But Ward One Alderman Rosa DiTucci disagreed.

“There are times when a single issue brings many other issues to light. This is the way it’s supposed to work. I don’t look at that as a problem,” said DiTucci.

Gately, however, warned the new ordinance could also hurt residents. He feared that it could render illegal what he called “mom and pop” operations such as a home ceramics studio or the home sale of surplus firewood.

For Raymond, passage of the new definition was an important milestone, but he still regretted that the vote was not unanimous.

“I’m disappointed that I couldn’t convince the whole council, but I respect my fellow aldermen’s opinions,” he said.