Darius Cole-Garrit was pronounced dead at the scene at 11:45 p.m. Tuesday. View Full Caption DNAinfo/Josh McGhee

CHICAGO — The mother of a man shot and killed by police on the Far South Side Tuesday night — after allegedly pointing a gun at officers — called his death "senseless" and said investigators have left her in the dark about the circumstances of the shooting.

Darius Cole-Garrit, 21, was shot and killed by police Tuesday near his home in the 13300 block of South Forrestville Avenue, authorities said.

Police said they were called about an armed man on a bicycle in the area about 9:35 p.m. They approached Cole-Garrit when they spotted someone matching the description.

"The subject got off his bicycle and reached into his waistband and pulled out a semi automatic handgun," police said in a statement. "The offender then attempted to flee as he turned and pointed the weapon in the direction of the officers. As a result of this action, the officers discharged their weapons striking the offender."

Cole-Garrit died on the scene.

His mother, Susie Garrit, rushed outside after she found out from a relative that her son had been shot. She said she was in shock when she saw his bike under a police car and his body a few feet away.

"I broke down. [Family members] had to literally help me stand up," Garrit said. "The police didn't want to answer any questions. They made me feel like it wasn't even my son. When you lose a kid that's the worst thing you can lose. None of the officers understood that ... I felt disrespected."

While Susie Garrit denied that her son had a weapon, police said a gun was found on the scene.

"That's sad to shoot him like that. They didn't have to shoot to kill," Garrit said. "The police killed my son. It was a senseless death."

Cole-Garrit had a 1-year-old daughter and lived in Indiana, Wisconsin and Minnesota over the last few years while searching for a steady job to help provide for her, his family said.

"He didn't care about nothing besides his kid. He just wanted to provide for her," said Eddie Brown, a cousin of Cole-Garrit.

"My son was a good kid. He really was," Garrit said.

The Independent Police Review Authority is investigating the shooting.

For more neighborhood news, listen to DNAinfo Radio here: