SHARE Miranda Michelle Guy Tracey Guy, aunt of shooting victim Miranda Michelle Guy, on Wednesday afternoon points to what she identified as bullet holes in the living room of the rental home where Miranda Michelle Guy lived and where she died in a hail of gunshots Tuesday. (BOB FOWLER/NEWS SENTINEL) Tracey Guy, aunt of Miranda Michelle Guy, points to what she identified as one of numerous bullet holes that struck the inside of the rental home occupied by her niece, Miranda Michelle Guy, who died Tuesday afternoon after being shot by two law enforcement officers. (BOB FOWLER/NEWS SENTINEL) Family members and others gather on Wednesday afternoon outside the rental home where Miranda Michelle Guy was shot to death by two law enforcement officers. (BOB FOWLER/NEWS SENTINEL)

By Bob Fowler

HARRIMAN — The Harriman woman shot to death in a tense standoff with two law enforcement officers Tuesday afternoon was walking toward one of the them, pointing a handgun loaded with 14 rounds at him, according to District Attorney General Russell Johnson.

Johnson in a news release Wednesday said Harriman Police Department Lt. Dan Schneider, 57, and Roane County Deputy Chris White, 43, were justified in shooting Miranda Michelle Guy, 28.

“The two officers were confronted with deadly force (a fleeing felony suspect with a criminal history pointing a loaded gun who at the time was being pursued from an active crime scene), so they responded accordingly,” Johnson stated in the release.

Both officers, each with years of law enforcement experience, are on paid administrative leave, and counseling has been made available to them, officials said.

Guy was shot numerous times in the right arm, side and front torso, reportedly as she was walking toward White, pointing the semiautomatic at him, in the living room of the Fairchild Street residence where she lived.

Eleven gunshots were fired inside the small house, Johnson said. Holes where bullets and bullet fragments struck pockmarked the living room, kitchen, side door and refrigerator.

According to the prosecutor, “Both the investigator and the deputy ordered Guy to drop the gun multiple times” before they opened fire.

Before she was shot, Guy twice tried to take her own life, according to the official statement as well as comments from eyewitness Melissa Grove, 30, who shared the rental house with Guy.

Grove told the News Sentinel on Wednesday she was sleeping on the living room couch and was awakened when Guy burst through the door.

“Officers were running up on the porch, telling everybody to get down, get down!” Grove said.

“When she (Guy) came into the house, she put the gun toward her head, pulled the trigger and it clicked,” Grove said. “That when I tried to get the gun from her.”

After Guy’s second failed apparent suicide try, “I hollered the gun ain’t loaded,” Grove said.

Johnson said Grove didn’t mention yelling about the unloaded gun during an interview after the incident.

After Schneider saw Guy “racking” her handgun, he stepped back into a hallway and radioed that the suspect was armed. When White entered the house and Guy started walking toward him, gun in hand, both officers repeatedly ordered her to drop her weapon before they started shooting.

The gunfire continued until Guy dropped to the floor and released her weapon, identified as a 9mm Taurus semi-automatic.

The shooting occurred after Guy was identified by a witness Tuesday afternoon as the suspect in the burglary of a South Harriman storage building.

Stolen items were seen inside the pickup truck bed as Guy drove by while burglary witnesses were being interviewed, according to Johnson.

A brief pursuit ensued that ended with Guy running into the house.

Guy had an arrest record in Roane County dating to February 2005, and charges ranged from aggravated assault to aggravated burglary to driving under the influence.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe at the district attorney general’s request. A neighbor told a TBI agent that Guy “had in fact threatened to shoot him the night before this incident,” according to Johnson’s release.

Johnson said he’s recommending that both officers be returned to active duty “once they have followed any and all department protocols concerning these types of cases.”

Funeral services for Guy will be 8 p.m. Friday at the chapel of Davis Funeral Home, Harriman, with interment 1 p.m. Saturday in Riggs Chapel Cemetery, Riggs Chapel Road. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations to cover expenses should be conveyed to the funeral home.