BEAUREGARD PARISH, LA (KPLC) - New information about last Wednesday's shooting that killed 25-year-old Jacob Navarre of DeRidder.

Beauregard Parish Sheriff's deputies say they shot at Navarre after he tried to run them over with his vehicle. But what led up to it?

The pursuit ended near Blanchard Road off LA-1147, but it started just five miles away.

Sgt. James Anderson, Public Information Officer for Louisiana State Police Troop D explains, "The pursuit began when Navarre took a car that was not his. The information that deputies received was that he was possibly armed and so those deputies were attempting to apprehend Navarre whenever the shooting took place."

Louisiana State Police are conducting the investigation which Anderson says is ongoing. However, the pursuit began when Navarre fled from a domestic dispute at 1317 Charles Libbick Road.

When asked if a weapon was found in Navarre's vehicle, Anderson said he didn't have an answer for that at this point.

As for the deputies involved, Joe Toler, Public Information Officer for the Beauregard Parish Sheriff's Office says those deputies are currently on paid office or desk duty, pending the outcome of the state police investigation.

Anderson says detectives continue to review information and obtain additional witness statements. He says they're also utilizing digital equipment.

"It's the same equipment we use to image our fatal crash scenes. Our crash reconstruction team was on-site the evening of the shooting and had that equipment in place so we can mark exactly where bullet casings were found, vehicles final resting place, and any other evidence that's pertinent to the investigation," said Anderson.

Deputies claim they shot Navarre out of self defense, after he tried to run them over. But what is standard protocol for authorities in that type of situation?

Anderson explains, "Each agency has its' own policy. Obviously we don't want to have to shoot at a vehicle, unless it's a last resort and we're doing it to defend life and limb. This was a case where the deputies felt they had to do that in order to prevent serious injury or death."

Toler says the names of the deputies involved are not being released, as the investigation by state police is ongoing.

Copyright 2014 KPLC All rights reserved.

Backstory here: http://www.kplctv.com/story/26620103/breaking-authorities-on-scene-of-deputy-involved-shooting-near-dry-creek