LAWRENCE — Prosecutors allege Lowell police Officer Eric Wayne, accused of driving drunk and killing a man in a head-on collision in Methuen, was on his cellphone attempting to flee the scene shortly after the early Saturday morning crash.

Wayne allegedly could be heard on the phone saying there has been a “bad accident” and that he needed to “get out of here,” Essex County prosecutor Michelle Defeo said Monday during Wayne’s arraignment in Lawrence District Court.

And when Wayne, a 19-year-veteran of the Lowell Police Department, was questioned by Methuen police, Defeo said he allegedly gave a false name — Eric Blane — only admitting his real name when he wrote his name on the form rejecting medical treatment.

When he asked police at the scene of the crash if everyone was all right, Wayne allegedly added, “I didn’t know it was going to happen like that,” he said.

In a courtroom packed with Wayne’s supporters and the family of 26-year-old Briant Paula, of Lawrence, the driver killed in the accident, Wayne, 41, of Lowell, pleaded not guilty to felony motor-vehicle homicide, negligent operation, marked-lanes violation, and having an open container of alchohol.

Paula’s sister, Lois Paula, 25, who was a passenger in her brother’s car, survived the crash.

Prosecutors sought $500,000 cash bail, while defense attorney Carmine Lepore asked for $10,000 cash and home confinement.

Judge Lynn Rooney revoked Wayne’s bail on a July 4, 2013, arrest for drunken driving and set a $100,000 cash bail in the motor-vehicle homicide case with conditions that if he posts bail, he is under house arrest with a Sobrietor, no driving, no alcohol, surrender all firearms and no contact with any victims or witnesses in the case.

Outside the courthouse, family and friends of Briant Paula complained that Wayne’s bail wasn’t high enough and that he was receiving preferential treatment because he is a police officer.

Shortly after Wayne’s arrest Saturday, Lowell Police Superintendent William Taylor told The Sun that Wayne was on paid administrative leave after his July 4, 2013, drunken-driving arrest in Lowell, but had been reinstated to his job in June despite the fact that the case was not yet resolved. The July drunken-driving case was transferred to Lawrence District Court from Lowell District Court to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest.

With his arrest on motor-vehicle homicide, Lowell Deputy Police Superintendent Deborah Friedl said Wayne has been placed on paid administrative leave. His job status will be reviewed as the criminal case proceeds, she said. Wayne is the son of the late Lowell police Detective Gerald Wayne.

According to court documents, Methuen police report they received multiple 911 calls at 12:32 a.m. about a serious two-car crash on Riverside Drive (Route 110). Witnesses report that Wayne was driving a 2013 Land Rover westbound on Riverside Drive when he crossed the center line and struck, head on, a 1998 Mercury Mountaineer being driven by Paula with his sister as his passenger.

After brother and sister were extricated from their car using the Jaws of Life, they were both transported to Lawrence General Hospital where Briant Paula died of massive head trauma. His sister received minor injuries from the crash. Wayne refused medical treatment.

Two witnesses approached police at the scene. One of them told police that after the crash, Wayne was standing on the side of the road on his cellphone trying to get someone to pick him up, according to court documents.

As an officer approached Wayne, who was wearing a black athletic jacket with “Micky Ward Boxing” lettering on it, he noticed an “overpowering odor” of alcohol coming from Wayne, court documents state. Wayne also showed other signs of intoxication, such as slurred speech and glassy eyes. Wayne fumbled through his wallet before admitting he did not have his license. It was then that he asked if everyone was all right and allegedly told the officer his last name was “Blane.”

Wayne allegedly avoided eye contact with the officer as he explained that he remembered nothing before or after the crash. Wayne indicated he was coming from his house in Lowell.

When police asked Wayne if he had been drinking, he twice said he had nothing to drink. Then he allegedly failed the field-sobriety test. He also refused a Breathalyzer test. Police found a broken beer bottle and the smell of beer in his Land Rover, and two beer bottles with blood on them were collected next to the crash site.

Sitting in the back of the police cruiser in handcuffs, Wayne kept repeating, “I’m a good person; you don’t know me, but I’m a good person…You think I’m a bad person, but I’m not.”

Wayne is scheduled for a Sept. 12 pretrial conference in the motor-vehicle homicide case.The 2013 drunken-driving case in Lowell has a status date of Sept. 26.

Follow Lisa Redmond on Tout and Twitter@lredmond13_lisa.