Most Popular Stories Most Popular Stories More>>

Putnam County EMS workers rally behind injured paramedic Putnam County EMS workers rally behind injured paramedic After a tragic accident that left a Putnam County paramedic in critical condition, the men and women he calls family are rallying behind him in emotional and financial support.Paramedic James Barham fell from a tree this week while doing yard work off-duty. He suffered a fractured clavicle and ten ribs, collapsed lung and four broken back bones.“I guess the people that was there with him thought he was almost gone when he hit the ground,” Rabel said. “He’s impro... After a tragic accident that left a Putnam County paramedic in critical condition, the men and women he calls family are rallying behind him in emotional and financial support.Paramedic James Barham fell from a tree this week while doing yard work off-duty. He suffered a fractured clavicle and ten ribs, collapsed lung and four broken back bones.“I guess the people that was there with him thought he was almost gone when he hit the ground,” Rabel said. “He’s impro...

Young girl's decomposed body found in crib; father arrested Young girl's decomposed body found in crib; father arrested Eric Warfel, was arrested without incident in Westlake Police say someone servicing television equipment found a young girl's badly decomposed body in a crib at a northeast Ohio apartment, and her father was arrested. Medina (meh-DY'-nuh) police say the remains discovered Wednesday are believed to be a girl born in October 2013. An autopsy was planned to determine how she died. Police say her father, Eric Warfel, was arrested without incident in Westlake. The Medina man remain... Police say someone servicing television equipment found a young girl's badly decomposed body in a crib at a northeast Ohio apartment, and her father was arrested. Medina (meh-DY'-nuh) police say the remains discovered Wednesday are believed to be a girl born in October 2013. An autopsy was planned to determine how she died. Police say her father, Eric Warfel, was arrested without incident in Westlake. The Medina man remain...