Advertisement Sheriff: Man shot, killed by Orange County deputies serving warrant Relatives identify deceased as Jeremy Lewis Share Copy Link Copy

A man was shot and killed by deputies who were serving a search warrant at a home in Orange County, deputies said.The man, who is a convicted felon, pulled a gun while deputies were serving a high-risk warrant at the apartment complex on 25th Street on Friday morning, said Sheriff Jerry Demings.Deputies said a two-week investigation into a narcotics operation led up to the warrant. When the deputies attempted to serve the warrant, 33-year-old Jeremy Lewis allegedly pointed a gun at them, according to authorities.At least two deputies shot Lewis several times outside the doorway, and he died from his injuries. Several other people, including a child, were inside the apartment homes at the time of the shooting."Oh my God, Lord have mercy. We had no clue. They wouldn't tell us anything. All we heard there was a warrant served and they came in just shooting," said Lewis' sister, Shironda Archie.Lewis' emotional family members said they have video evidence that conflicts with what deputies said happened. WESH 2 News is working to obtain the video.Top video: Flagler County deputies fitted with new body cameras"We've got to stop killing our young people," said Lewis' aunt, Patricia Lewis. "When will it stop?"Lewis had three children, who will be devastated, according to their mother, Latresa Johnson."What am I going to tell my kids? The kids love their dad. What am I going to tell my babies?" Johnson said. "I would like some answers as to what happened. I would like to know what happened here. Why didn't you give him a chance? Is this how we're treated as citizens now, we're not given a chance?"The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting. The deputies involved will be placed on administrative duty during the investigation.Lewis' arrest record in Orange County dates back to 1999 with arrests on charges of robbery, misdemeanor assault, battery on a pregnant woman, grand theft and carrying a concealed weapon as a convicted felon."They killing them all because they did something in their past? We all going to fall dead if that's the case," said Patricia Lewis.14277264