Staff reports

3:16 p.m. update

The names of the Reno Police officers involved in a fatal shootout Sunday with a suspect who fled after the armed robbery of a CVS store on Plumb Lane are not being released at this time.

Bob Harmon, spokesman for the Washoe County Sheriff's Office, said today that he does not know how many police officers were involved in the shootout near the Peppermill Spa Resort Casino or their identities

Harmon said could not estimate when the officers' names will be released.

The suspect was taken to Renown Regional Medical Center, where he died later Sunday of his injuries.

2:20 p.m. update:

The identity of a man suspected of robbing the CVS Pharmacy on Plumb Lane is not being released pending the Washoe County Medical Examiner's examination, Bob Harmon, spokesman for the Washoe County Sheriff's Office, said today.

"I'm not anticipating hearing from them today (Monday), but probably sometime later this week to ultimately determine the cause of death and confirm the identity of the individual," he said.

The suspect was fatally shot by Reno Police after the robbery, authorities said.

Harmon also did not release the name of the CVS patron who was wounded during the robbery and hospitalized other than to identify the victim as a male adult.

"My understanding is that the injuries were not life-threatening," he said. "All other information will be hinging on the investigation."

The robbery occurred at the front counter of the CVS store in Shoppers Square at about 5 p.m. Sunday.

The CVS store was open today, but Assistant Store Manager Ted Olson said he is prohibited by company policy from making any comments relating to the robbery.

The Washoe County Sheriff's Department is the outside agency in charge of handling the investigation because Reno Police officers were involved in a shootout with the victim after he fled the scene.

Earlier update:

A chain of events, triggered by a CVS Pharmacy robbery off Plumb Lane and a vehicle chase, ended with Reno police fatally shooting a suspect near the Peppermill Resort Spa Casino on Sunday evening, authorities said.

The suspect, whose name was not immediately known, died of his injuries Sunday night at Renown Regional Medical Center, Washoe County Sheriff's Sgt. Tom Green said.

A male customer was shot and wounded in the earlier robbery at CVS and was hospitalized at Renown, authorities said.

The series of events began shortly after 5 p.m. with the robbery at the CVS off Plumb Lane at Shoppers Square.

Upon arrival, Reno police found a man had been shot at the pharmacy, Green said. The victim described the suspect's pickup, Green said.

Police pursued the truck to Wrondel Way and Topaz Drive, where shots were exchanged, Green said.

The chase eventually ended near the Peppermill where the suspect got out of the truck and shot at Reno police officers, Green said.

Police then fired back, Green said, fatally wounding him.

It's unclear how many shots were fired and the number of officers involved.

Police were not injured.

A witness was parked outside the CVS when, he said, crowds of people rushed out like a tornado.

The witness, Sacramento resident Maurice Caldwell, said he told police that he saw a man run out of the area of the CVS store, take his shirt off and ball it up, jump in a truck and speed off toward the Peppermill.

Police late Sunday remained near the CVS along Plumb and further south along Virginia Street near the Peppermill as the investigation continued.

On RGJ.com

Check RGJ.com for updates on this story, including photos and video