Eric Woomer and Luis Hernandez

It was a deadly Labor Day weekend for some motorists in Tulare County after six people died and three suffered major injuries.

The deaths and injuries occurred in four separate crashes and collisions between Saturday and Labor Day.

Three of the deaths occurred in Tulare and two occurred in the Visalia area, according to the California Highway Patrol.

3:30 a.m. Saturday

Officers say Rudy Pena of Tulare was driving his Dodge south on Road 28 approaching Avenue 232 when he failed to stop at a stop sign. His vehicle collided with a 2001 Nissan, which was traveling east on Avenue 232, which is not controlled by stop signs.

Pena’s vehicle veered left and rolled into a cornfield and caught fire. The Nissan veered right and struck the wooden stop sign and eventually rolled into a cornfield. No one was wearing a seat belt, according to CHP officers.

A 39-year-old male and a 32-year-old male in the Nissan were pronounced dead at the scene. The driver, Martin Garcia, suffered major injuries and was transported to Fresno’s Community Regional Medical Center. The names of the men who died were not available Tuesday.

Pena was taken to Tulare Regional Medical Center for major injuries.

The cause of the accident is under investigation.

11:38 p.m. Sunday

A man roller-blading on a busy north Tulare thoroughfare died when he was struck by a vehicle Friday.

The man, whose name was withheld Monday pending notification to his family, was struck while roller-blading backward on Prosperity Avenue between Hillman and Blackstone streets, according to police. They said the man was skating eastbound on the westbound Prosperity lanes.

According to Tulare Police Sgt. Darron Altermatt, the man was not only skating the wrong direction, he was also skating backwards.

Altermatt said he had no information whether there were additional roller-blade skaters.

Police said the man was struck by a 1991 Honda Accord driven by 19-year-old Suena Real of Tulare. The vehicle ended up with moderate damage on the passenger side.

The man was taken to Tulare Regional Medical Center, where he died from his injuries, police said.

Responding officers didn’t issue a citation, Altermatt said.

The crash was reported at 11:38 p.m. Sunday.

Friday’s crash was the third fatality registered by Tulare police this year. On July 9, motorcycle rider John Daniel Zamora was injured in a collision at K Street and San Joaquin Avenue. He died on July 27 at Fresno Community Regional Center.

On July 11, bicycle rider Christopher Johnson, 34, was injured in a crash at Washington Avenue and Adams Street. He died July 14 also at the Fresno hospital.

Motocross rider Justin Barnett died in a crash at the Tulare Cycle Park on July 27. Police said didn’t include Barnett’s fatal crash in the department’s statistics because it occurred at the cycle park.

12:15 p.m. Monday

The CHP reported that Lyndon Johnson, 50, of Moreno Valley, was driving a big rig south on Highway 99 approaching Avenue 328 when a man driving north on the frontage road in the area lost control of his Mitsubishi Eclipse and collided with the big rig.

David Garcia, 25, of Visalia, suffered major injuries in the crash and was rushed to Kaweah Delta Medical Center in Visalia. He later died. CHP officers say Garcia’s high rate of speed may have been the cause for him losing control of his car.

A 2015 Chevrolet Tahoe, driven by Yuan Wang, narrowly avoided the crash, but flipped his SUV. He didn’t suffer any major injuries. Johnson wasn’t injured in the crash.

The collision also caused fuel and oil to spill from the big rig. Both lanes of Highway 99 south were backed up for several miles.

6:55 p.m. Monday

Two men died Monday evening when the driver tried to flee from a Tulare County Sheriff’s deputy near Pratt Road and Avenue 216 in Tulare.

The driver, trying to evade the deputy, lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a power pole. The vehicle rolled over and two passengers were ejected. One of the passengers, a 32-year-old man, died at the scene. The other passenger, Angel Mata, also 32, was rushed to Kaweah Delta Medical for moderate injuries.

The driver, whose name was not released also died. The 34-year-old driver was the only one in the 1996 Cadillac with a seat belt on.

It was not reported why the deputy was pursuing the vehicle.