A police officer was one of ten people struck by gunfire in several different incidents spanning three boroughs Saturday night into Sunday morning, authorities said.

Police officer John Hirschberger, 28, was on foot patrol, near the corner of Gates Avenue and Marcus Garvey Boulevard in Bedford-Stuyvesant around 2:30 a.m., when a sergeant and two officers in plain-clothes spotted a man adjusting his waistband and approached, officials said.

Suspect Naim Owens, 22, turned and ran from Monroe Street to Gates Avenue, where he encountered Hirschberger and another uniformed cop, law enforcement sources said.

The gunman pumped one bullet into the cop’s left thigh and police returned fire, according to the NYPD.

Owens was shot once in his upper back and taken to Kings County Hospital, where he is in stable condition and under police guard, sources said.

Police said they recovered a .38 caliber Rossy firearm nearby.

Hirshberger, who has been on the job less than a year, suffered only minor injuries and was released from the hospital, authorities said.

Owens’ mentally ill brother was shot dead by police back in 2007 during a domestic incident at his mother’s Gates Avenue home, law enforcement sources said.

After a brief standoff with police, Khiel Coppin, 18, walked out of the building where he had barricaded himself and encountered police, who ordered him down on the ground.

The teen instead reached into his hooded sweatshirt and pulled out a hairbrush before police opened fire and shot him.

Sunday’s shooting prompted Police Commissioner Bill Bratton to address the 79th Precinct during roll call Sunday morning. The department released photos of the visit but didn’t disclose what the PC said to cops working with the cop who was shot.

Earlier in the evening, three people were shot during a drive by in Bed-Stuy around 10:45 p.m., when an unknown vehicle pulled up and unloaded several shots on Malcolm X Boulevard near Kosciusko Street and fled.

Two men, 64 and 25, were waiting for a B46 bus when they were struck in shoulder and foot respectively, while a 25-year-old woman was hit in the left thigh. All three suffered minor injuries and were treated at Kings County Hospital.

In Harlem, a 22-year-old man’s head was grazed by a bullet during a home invasion when two men burst into his Frederick Douglas Boulevard apartment around midnight and stole his playstation and iPhone.

Around the same time, a 23-year-old man in the Eastchester section of the Bronx was shot and killed at the corner Wickham and Tillotson avenues, police said.

Christopher Richards was found dead with several gunshot wounds to the torso and legs and was taken to Jacobi Hospital where he was pronounced dead.

About two hours later, two 16-year-old boys were shot in the legs on Third Avenue near 112th Street in East Harlem, police said. They were both taken to Metropolitan hospital in stable condition.

Elsewhere, a 29-year-old man was shot in Central Park at around 4 a.m. when a gunman opened fire near West 102nd Street, cops said. The gunman is still being sought.

Two people were also stabbed early Sunday, with a 24-year-old man in getting knifed in the head, neck and chest on President Street in Crown Heights around 1:15 a.m. The other was stabbed several times in Washington Heights and taken to Harlem Hospital in stable condition.

Five police officers were injured when they responded to an out of control block party in Washington Heights and had glass bottles and other items thrown at them.

The officers showed up to the building at near the corner of Edgecombe Avenue and West 164th Street at around 10:30 p.m. when people started hurling the items at them.

Five men — J-Quan Johnson, 25, Anthony Smalls, 26, Michael Wilson, 30, Justin Tyson, 25 and Javon Smith, 24 — were arrested and charged with disorderly conduct.