CLEVELAND, Ohio – The man Cleveland police shot and killed Tuesday morning may have committed "suicide by police" after a night of binge drinking and mourning of his dead mother, according to those who knew him.

Neighbors and friends of Kendrick Brown said the 35 year old drank overnight in hours that led to the 9:15 a.m. incident on East 140th Street where he pointed a handgun at a police sergeant responding to reports of shots fired.

The City of Cleveland and Cuyahoga County prosecutors' offices and homicide detectives will investigate the circumstances surrounding Brown's death. As the investigation into the shooting continues, neighbors and friends said Brown was going through a dark time in his life, and gave up.

Brown grew up on East 140th Street, and was a longtime staple of the neighborhood. Residents said Brown liked to drink and would yell at people and talk to himself from apartment stoops, but stopped short of causing serious trouble.

A close friend who's known Brown since childhood said he was fun loving and had an infectious personality, but he also found himself in trouble with the law.

He was involved in the neighborhood drug trade – he was convicted of drug trafficking nine times in between 2000-07, and was shot in 2012 – but he was also good with kids. The friend said Brown gave her young daughter a birthday card and $10 every year. He also played backyard football with neighborhood boys.

But Brown's jovial spirit started to darken after his mother was placed in a nursing home. He was the youngest of two boys and was extremely close with his mother.

When she died of natural causes last month at 69, Brown's life went into a tailspin. His mother was buried with her parents in Alabama last week. Brown returned to Cleveland Friday and spent the holiday weekend holed up in an apartment.

Glenn Caffee said he showed up to a neighboring apartment to clean it out before 9 a.m. Tuesday. He said Brown was outside yelling at people, slurring his words and stumbling.

"He drank all night long," Caffee said.

Caffee said that he visited a corner store on Kinsman Road with another man who lives on the block. Brown ran up to them as they walked along East 140th Street and slapped the other man in the face, Caffee said.

Caffee pulled the two men apart. Brown showed him a pistol tucked into his waistband. Caffee tried to get Brown to come inside and help him clean out the apartment.

"I was just trying to calm him down," Caffee said. "I wish he would have listened."

Caffee said that he and the other man continued their walk to the store, but it wasn't open yet. As they walked back, Brown ran across the street and fired his pistol at the other man, Caffee said.

Police were called. A sergeant, whose name has not been released, was the first to arrive. Brown sat on a tree stump in the middle of the sidewalk leading to his apartment as the patrol car drove up East 140th Street. He guzzled the last of a can of Miller Lite, tossed it on the tree lawn and marched up to the patrol car with his .22-caliber revolver drawn, witnesses said.

Several witnesses said Brown fired two shots before the car stopped, but Police Chief Calvin Williams said whether Brown fired his weapon was still under investigation. The sergeant fired three shots from the car.

"He always said he was going to go down on East 140th Street, and he said police would have to kill him," the childhood friend said.

Witnesses said the sergeant pulled his patrol car up a few feet, stopped and ran to Brown's body. He tried to give Brown CPR, and knelt beside him while paramedics rushed to the scene.

Brown was taken to MetroHealth Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.

Cleveland police are investigating the shooting. The revolver recovered at the scene contained spent shell casings, suggesting it was shot, Williams said.

The sergeant was placed on administrative leave pending the investigation, spokeswoman Det. Jennifer Ciaccia said.

"Our hearts and prayers definitely go out to (Brown's) family," Williams said. "But this is another situation of a person with a weapon that shouldn't have a weapon, and he actually pointed that weapon at a police officer."

Police leadership and city community relations specialists spoke to dozens of onlookers who swarmed the parking lot of a daycare center in a former CVS, just outside the crime scene.

Blaine Griffin, executive director of Cleveland's Community Relations Board, said the situation in Ferguson, Missouri -- where the fatal police shooting of unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown escalated into several days of looting, violent protests and a highly-criticized police response -- had nothing to do with the reaction to Tuesday morning's incident.

"I'm here to make sure the community knows we're going to be fair, open and transparent," Griffin said. "We always strive to get better, but we've been doing this for a long time. Our goal is to build relationships in advance, so we're not just reacting."

By contrast to Ferguson, friends and witnesses said the distraught Brown left the sergeant no choice but to open fire.

"The officer didn't wake up and decide he was going to shoot somebody today," Brown's close friend said. "He had no choice. Ken had given up."