Dana Nichols and Fran Bott Record Staff Writers

Dead man's relatives say he was unarmed

Stockton police shot and killed

a father of eight in front of his south Stockton home at dawn Wednesday, arousing

accusations from relatives who said Bobby Carl Washington Sr. was unarmed and

under severe psychological stress.

Relatives said Washington was a

family man, a construction worker who took his children fishing and lifted weights.

But a year after his mother's death, he came unhinged, they said.

Police said Washington, 36, had

been pacing, waving a gun and threatening to kill people, including himself,

for hours. His brother, who called police to the scene, said Washington never

had a gun and that a weapon police found later was in a nearby garage.

A police spokesman said Washington

was holding a gun when he was shot, and that a gun and ammunition were found

near his body. Officers were still searching Washington's home Wednesday night,

he said, and he did not know if they found a gun in the garage.

Washington's oldest child says she's

sure she could have calmed him if only she'd been allowed past police lines.

A representative from the Stockton

Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People said

the civil rights organization would investigate the shooting.

Police said their first consideration

had to be the safety of people in the neighborhood, including small children

in nearby houses.

It was the third time this year

Stockton police have killed men who they say threatened officers. Last year,

in contrast, Stockton police had only two incidents in which police shot people,

and neither was fatal, department spokesman Doug Anderson said.

Washington's brother Michael Washington,

who lives next door, called officers to the scene at 3:22 a.m., Anderson said.

"He said his brother was outside, pacing, acting crazy," Anderson said.

Michael Washington and his family

have lived next to his brother Bobby for about four years. Their houses sit

near the cul-de-sac end of Amsterdam Court in a tight-knit neighborhood of modern

ranch-style homes. He said Bobby Washington was a shy man who cared for their

dying mother in his own home until her March 2001 death from complications due

to diabetes.

But Bobby Washington snapped a little

more than a week ago, Michael Washington said, yelling uncharacteristically

at him, refusing to eat or sleep, accusing his wife and other people of trying

to hurt him.

"It was like somebody gave him something.

He was fried," Michael Washington said. "He wasn't in his right mind."

Relatives said Bobby Washington

was distraught over the one-year anniversary of his mother's death on March

26, 2001, the fact that he had been laid off from his construction job, and

possibly because of a run-in with police following a traffic accident Saturday.

Anderson said Washington was under

the influence of PCP when he was arrested Saturday morning after allegedly fleeing

from the scene of a three-car collision near Wilson and Charter ways. Police

reports indicate Washington was subdued by several police officers after he

failed to respond to a stun gun used on him.

Washington was booked and, relatives

say, released later that day. One officer received a broken bone in one wrist,

and two other officers sustained abrasions.

Anderson said that a patrol car

with two officers got to Amsterdam Court at 3:29 a.m. Wednesday. At 3:33 a.m.,

Washington fired several rounds from a semiautomatic handgun, Anderson said,

adding he didn't know if Washington fired at the officers.

But those shots were enough to prompt

a call for more officers and the department's Special Weapons and Tactics team.

Officers surrounded the court, seeking to prevent Washington from going into

a home and threatening occupants, Anderson said.

Over the next several hours, Washington

paced, made more threats and at one point fired more shots, Anderson said. "They

tried to talk to him," Anderson said. "He points the gun at officers, at himself,

at his head. ... Unfortunately, he didn't want to talk."

Word of the incident spread, drawing

friends and relatives to the scene. Washington's oldest child, Wilisha Beatty-Washington,

20, said her stepmother, Erica Washington, called her around 5 a.m.

"When I got here, an officer refused

access to my father," Beatty-Washington said. "I am his oldest child, and that

is all that should matter."

Beatty-Washington admitted she had

never before seen her father in such a severe crisis. But she still believes

she might have been able to reach him.

"I've talked to him and brightened

up his day -- put a smile on his face," she said through tears Wednesday morning.

The stalemate broke at sunrise --

just before 6 a.m.

"He started to walk out to an area

to where he was a present danger to officers, and at the same time he was doing

this he was yelling that he was going to kill everybody and that they would

have to kill him, and he was pointing a gun in officers' directions," Anderson

said.

"He never had a gun on him," Michael

Washington said, describing how he watched from his doorway. "They found a gun

way up in the garage"

Michael Washington says he saw one

officer start to release a police dog, but another officer told him to hold

the dog, that he "had a clear shot." The second officer fired one shot, Michael

Washington said, and his brother dropped to the street, quiet.

Michael Washington said his brother

needed medical and mental-health treatment.

"I told him I was going to get him

help. I did try to get him help but from the wrong ... people."

Rev. Willie Douglas, who

leads the NAACP's local chapter, said his organization is conducting an investigation

into Washington's death.

"This is very disturbing," Douglas

said. "This poses fear in people who say, 'Why should we call the police if

they're not coming to help us, they're coming to kill us?' "

He said witness accounts thus far

indicate the shooting was unwarranted.

Anderson said police will release

further details today on the shooting, including the name of the sole SWAT team

member who fired. Anderson said the officer has served almost seven years with

the department.

After a relatively quiet 2001, Stockton

police have had three deadly encounters with crime suspects so far this year.

On Feb. 21, police shot and killed

Andre Johnson, 34, as Johnson clutched his 18-month-old daughter to his chest

with one hand and fired at police officers with a gun in the other hand in his

Weston Ranch home.

On March 3, police shot and killed

Orlando Aguila, 29, when Aguila lunged at officers with knives in each hand

near his north Stockton home. Aguila was a schizophrenic. Someone in the Aguila

house called police to the scene, saying Aguila was under the influence of crack

and he was demanding money from family members.

In addition to daughter Beatty-Washington

and his wife, Erica Washington, Bobby Washington is survived by children Bobby

Jr., Gladys, Keyonte, Jonathan, Perry, Brandi and Breann.

To reach Assistant Metro Editor

Dana Nichols, phone 546-8295 or e-maildnichols@recordnet.com

To reach reporter Fran Bott, phone833-1122 or e-mailfbott@recordnet.com

PHOTOS:

WASHINGTON: Father of 8.

GRIEF: Tears well in the

eyes of Wilisha Beatty-Washington on Wednesday near where her father, Bobby

Carl Washington Sr., was shot dead by police. Page A8. (Record photo by DAVID

FINCH

GRAPHICS:

Bobby Carl Washington Sr. shot at dawn during confrontation. Map. (Record graphics

© 2002 The Record, a division

of World Companies, Inc.