Jodi Belgard

PINEVILLE – A Pineville Police officer shot and killed a man Monday morning after the man charged at the officer with a machete, according to witnesses.

Christopher Shane LeBlanc, 40, was pronounced dead after the mid-morning altercation, which began when LeBlanc, in his underwear, exited his Cummins Street home armed with a machete, witnesses said.

According to a news release by the Pineville Police Department, officers received a report at 10:14 a.m. that someone had threatened another person with a weapon in the 500 block of Cummins Street. When officers arrived, they found LeBlanc in the street with the machete.

The Rapides Parish Sheriff's Office, which has taken over the investigation, said Pineville officers ordered LeBlanc to drop his weapon.

"The suspect then charged toward one of the officers, and the officer fired on the suspect, and the suspect was hit, stopping his advance," RPSO spokesman Lt. Tommy Carnline said in a statement.

In an interview, Carnline said the Pineville officer's name was not being immediately released because the investigation is ongoing. Pineville city officials describe the police officer as shaken by the incident but said the officer was not injured.

LeBlanc's mother, Connie LeBlanc, and his wife, Tanya LeBlanc, rushed to the scene Monday morning.

"He was supposed to spend the day with me," Connie LeBlanc said.

Tanya LeBlanc said she left the house at 7 a.m. to go to work and that her husband was fine at the time.

"He was going to put some clothes on to wash, and then he was going to spend the day with his mom. That's all he was doing."

Tanya LeBlanc said her husband had a drinking problem and that he had been known to become aggressive. She also said the Pineville police had been to their home on several occasions due to his drinking, but that he had never been arrested. It was not immediately known if Christopher LeBlanc was drinking at the time of the incident.

"They've been here enough to know what they were walking into," Tanya LeBlanc said. "It's self-defense, I understand that. I want to know why they didn't just shoot him in the kneecap or something."

Conflicting reports state that Christopher LeBlanc first had a shotgun, but that it was a machete he used to charge police.

Tanya LeBlanc said she was unaware of any firearms in the home.

"They're saying he had a shotgun, and that he put that up and got a machete," she said. "I don't know if we have any guns. I thought we got rid of all the guns."

Christopher LeBlanc's wife and mother were visibly distraught, and Tanya LeBlanc was openly angry at the police.

"They're not telling me anything," she said. "That's what's bothering me. I guess I'm in shock. Until I see him, I don't know how I'll react."

The couple has been married for 20 years, and they have no children together.

Christopher LeBlanc's grandfather, the Rev. Joe Kite, arrived on the scene, as well. He said his grandson was a hard worker who "nearly killed himself working." After a series of job-related injuries, Christopher LeBlanc walked off the job and was in the process of acquiring disability compensation, Kite said.

The Rapides Parish District Attorney's Office and the Rapides Parish Coroner's Office also are investigating. An autopsy is pending, and the investigation is continuing.