Fighting drug addiction, joblessness and diagnosed with hepatitis C, Thomas Carberry once again had begun to think of ending his life, according to his roommates.

Months after slashing himself with a butcher knife, Carberry on Sunday chose “suicide by cop,” said David Dlouhy who with partner Terry Cooley had taken the troubled man into their home eight months ago after meeting him in the gym where they trained.

“I really thought he was on track,” said Dlouhy, who helped Carberry, 50, get an overdue refund from the IRS and encouraged him to pursue his interest in photography.

But the progress would not last.

Standing outside their tidy waterside house on Northwest Ninth Terrace, Carberry ignored police orders to drop the gun he was holding, at one point telling officers, “Just do it,” according to witnesses.

Two Wilton Manors officers opened fire.

Carberry was taken to Broward Health Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale where he was later pronounced dead.

The shooting just after 3 p.m. shattered the usual afternoon tranquility on the residential cul-de-sac, and also ended the hopes of Dlouhy and Cooley to help a man they said could not outpace his demons.

“When he walked out of here, he wanted to be killed,” said Dlouhy, 65, retired from a 34-year career as a diplomat with the U.S. Foreign Service. “He hated how drugs had taken over his life.”

Dlouhy said Carberry had taken his car earlier Sunday and was looking to buy drugs on the street when he returned in an agitated state. He packed his belongings and threatened his roommates with the pistol before they were able to push him out of the house, Dlouhy said.

Dlouhy and Cooley locked the doors. But Carberry, perhaps realizing he had forgotten his cell phone, tried to get back in, Dlouhy said.

The men called 911 and huddled in a bathroom in the center of the house while staying on the line with the police dispatcher, they said. They reported hearing him fire at least three shots.

They also heard Carberry shatter the glass on a side door as he tried to break in, they said.

“I was telling the dispatcher, ‘Get the police here faster. He’s coming through the door,'” said Cooley, 58, a business executive.

Dlouhy, who in 1989 survived a grenade attack on his home when he was deputy chief of mission in El Salvador during the civil war there, said he had never been more frightened.

“Here we were on our own,” said Dlouhy. “There we had a Marine detachment of 52. I wasn’t sure the police would get here in a timely manner. When you hear shots, you get ready for the worst.”

Two houses down the street, 63-year-old Margrit Campbell said she watched through her front window as the drama unfolded. She said she saw three officers with drawn handguns, and a fourth with a rifle.

She said she heard police repeatedly tell Carberry to put down the gun. “I could see everything,” said Campbell. “He stood there with a silly grin on his face.”

Carberry, who had worked as a plumber, was arrested many times, according to Florida Department of Law Enforcement records. At age 24, Fort Lauderdale police charged him with carrying a concealed weapon.

He had subsequent arrests for drug possession, fraud, probation violation and shoplifting.

Although not well-educated, Dlouhy said Carberry was “smart, personable and very caring.”

“We wanted to show him what a normal, middle-class life looked like,” he said. “But ultimately, he wanted to be killed. He wanted out of this endless catastrophe.”

Carberry is survived by a sister in Revere, Mass., Dlouhy said.

The Broward Sheriff’s Office is investigating the incident. The two officers, whose names have not been released, will be put on paid administrative leave per Wilton Manors police policy, officials said.

Staff researcher Barbara Hijek contributed to this report.

mwclary@tribune.com