A woman who was charged with murder after a deadly shootout with law enforcement faced a judge Monday. It was the first court appearance for Kimberly Cormier.

Cormier and another suspect, 48-year-old James Nicholas, have been linked to several homicides in the Houston area, authorities said. Nicholas was killed last week after a shootout with officers, and Cormier, who was injured, was arrested.

Authorities connected Nicholas and Cormier to the brutal slayings of Jose Bonilla, Kathrine Gingrich, Johnny Holcomb and another victim. Officers obtained a search warrant and went to arrest them.

Cormier and Nicholas would not give up, and led officers on a high-speed chase, then exchanged a hail of gunfire after crashing their vehicle in the 10200 block of Jacinto Port, according to authorities.

Nicholas was killed, but Cormier survived. After being arrested, Cormier allegedly confessed to her role in the killings. Authorities said Cormier admitted to participating in the slaying of Bonilla. Prosecutors said Cormier was spotted on surveillance video when Bonilla died.

She also allegedly confessed to participating or being present for several other homicides. Three of the victims were shot to death at their homes.

On Sept. 2, a man arrived to his apartment on Alderson Street and found his girlfriend, 26-year-old Gingrich, lying dead on the floor. The man ran to his aunt's home, which was down the street, and the two of them called 911.

Deputies said when they arrived, they learned the man's girlfriend was good friends with Holcomb, 33, who lived in the neighboring apartment. Investigators went next door to question Holcomb, but he did not answer.

When deputies looked through a window, they saw Holcomb's body. Both friends had been shot to death.

Then on Sept. 8, Bonilla's body was found at his home on Walsh Stone Lane. He had been tied up, then shot. His roommate made the discovery. Bonilla was a self-employed automobile broker and would often conduct sales transactions from his home.

On the day of his death, neighbors reported seeing a man and a woman at his home between 8:15 a.m. and 9 a.m. They were driving a light-colored four-door sedan.

Further investigation led authorities to Nicholas and Cormier, which led to the chase and shootout. The suspects were driving a vehicle stolen when Bonilla was murdered, investigators said.

The specific details of the fourth homicide were not immediately available.

Cormier is being held in the Harris County Jail with no bond.