Ally Marotti

amarotti@enquirer.com

Two Cincinnati police officers shot and killed a man in East Price Hill Sunday night. But before they pointed their guns at him, he turned one on himself.

Police responded to the 300 block of Rosemont Avenue at about 7 p.m. Sunday after receiving calls for shots fired.

"He's shooting everywhere," said a woman who called 911 and lived nearby the home from which the shots were coming.

Police arrived on scene and formed a perimeter around the home, said Asst. Chief Paul Humphries. Christopher Mitchell, 37, soon came outside.

"When he came out onto the porch he had the gun to his head," Humphries said. He lowered it before pointing it at the officers.

"That's when they fired."

Sgt. Robert Lind and Specialist Scott McManis fired their weapons. They fired one round from a shotgun and three rounds from a 9mm gun.

"They fired enough to stop the threat," Humphries said.

Mitchell never fired at the officers. But he had fired his gun earlier that day.

He had been acting suicidal for much of the day Sunday, Humphries said. He had called a friend and made suicidal statements. When she came over, he threatened her and she left. At one point, he actually put the gun to his head and pulled the trigger, but the gun did not fire.

Police recovered the .22-caliber gun that Mitchell had held to his head.

Mitchell's family members told police he had struggled with depression and substance abuse. He did not have a notable record within the court system, Humphries said.

Lind and McManis responded appropriately, Humphries said.

Lind became a Cincinnati police officer in 2006. He is a member of the Army Reserve, and has completed a tour in both Afghanistan and Iraq. According to Lind's personnel file, he was promoted to sergeant on Aug. 17.

McManis has been a Cincinnati police officer since 1994, according to his personnel file. He often "exceeded expectations" on his annual performance reviews. He was transferred to District 3, where the shooting occurred, last November.

McManis and Lind were placed on administrative leave following the shooting, per department protocol.

Cincinnati police are testing two different body cameras, and one of the officers wearing one responded to the scene Sunday night. The cameras, mounted on the chest, do not capture all of the visual action, as they move with the officer. But it did capture the audio during the incident.

This is the first shooting in Cincinnati captured by one of the body cameras. Humphries said the audio and visuals caught on film supported witness statements.

"I will take every bit of information that gets us to the truth," he said. "Witnesses that we interviewed basically had the same story, but when you got the video, that's clear cut evidence."

The incident remains under investigation.

Cincinnati City Manager Harry Black sent his sympathies to the Mitchell family.

"We never want to see an incident end this way," he said. "Sometimes, though, it is unavoidable."