SHARE James Bradley Phillips, 43, killed by police officers at a Wendy's restaurant, 3644 Parkway in Pigeon Forge on Sept. 13, 2014. Phillips, along with 36-year-old Monica Leigh-Ann Briggs, were named as persons of interest in the killing of Kenneth G. Koster who was found dead in Campbell County earlier in the week. Briggs was arrested at the scene. (TBI/Special to the News Sentinel) Facebook picture of couple wanted in connection with the slaying of a Knoxville man in Campbell County that led authorities Sept. 13 to a Wendy's restaurant in Pigeon Forge. James Bradley Phillips, on right, was fatally shot by police in the Wendy's and Monica Briggs, left, was charged with murder.

By Don Jacobs of the Knoxville News Sentinel

At 8:35 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 13, two people wanted in connection with a Campbell County slaying posted a “selfie” picture of themselves on a social media account.

In less than 90 minutes, James Bradley Phillips, 43, was fatally shot and his girlfriend, Monica Leigh-Ann Briggs, 36, was lying handcuffed face down on the floor of a Pigeon Forge restaurant.

It was all because of a partially visible picture hanging on the restaurant wall behind the cheek-to-cheek couple.

“There’s a picture of Dave Thomas in the background of their Facebook (posting), so you didn’t have to be a genius to figure out they were in a Wendy’s,” Pigeon Forge Police Chief Jack Baldwin said Thursday. “We just didn’t know which one.”

Thomas founded the Wendy’s chain.

Law enforcement agencies across the region were alerted when they spotted the photo, and officers quietly checked every Wendy’s restaurant in their jurisdiction.

Pigeon Forge Police Department Sgt. Ralph Carr and another uniformed officer went to the Wendy’s at 3644 Parkway. Baldwin said Carr waited outside to meet two undercover Pigeon Forge officers who were working at a car show that weekend.

“They had stopped at the Wendy’s to get something to drink,” Baldwin said. Carr arranged with the two plainclothes officers to meet them outside the restaurant where he showed them pictures of Phillips and Briggs.

The undercover officers confirmed the pair were still in the restaurant where the suspects had taken their picture.

Baldwin said the two plainclothes officers, Carr and a second uniformed officer entered the business about 10 p.m., with the undercover officers stationing themselves at other exits. Carr and the other officer approached the suspects.

“They were instructed to put their hands up and he didn’t,” Baldwin said. The chief was unsure how many customers and employees were in the Wendy’s at the time.

Fourth Judicial District Attorney General Jimmy Dunn, whose office investigated the police shooting, on Thursday announced publicly his review had cleared Carr of violating any laws or procedures.

“The suspect did in fact make movements toward his midsection and Sgt. Carr was forced to use deadly force because he believed the suspect to be armed,” Dunn said in a news release.

Baldwin said Carr fired one round from his .45-caliber Glock at Phillips. None of the other officers fired their weapon.

“It was over rather quickly,” Baldwin said.

The chief said officers forced Briggs to the floor and handcuffed her. She was charged with public intoxication and taken to the Sevier County Jail.

Dunn said investigators later determined Phillips and Briggs “had decided to use a hair brush and cellphone to deceive law enforcement officers into a belief that both” were armed “when confronted by law enforcement officers.”

“In fact, a hair brush and cellphone were found at the scene,” Dunn said. “There was no actual weapon.”

Briggs has since been charged with first-degree murder in the slaying of Kenneth G. Koster, 45, of Knoxville. His body had been found Sept. 8 on property at 545 Enix Lane in Caryville. She is being held in the Campbell County Jail in lieu of $750,000 bond and is slated to appear Oct. 23 in court.

Baldwin said Carr was placed on administrative leave pending the results of Dunn’s investigation of the shooting. Carr returned to patrol duties Tuesday.

“He’s been a fantastic officer and always striven to do what’s right,” the chief said. The department offered counseling to Carr, his family and other members of the department after the shooting.

Baldwin said he was unsure if any of the event was captured by Wendy’s surveillance cameras. None of the involved officers were outfitted with body cameras.

“We do have some body cameras, but not enough for all of our officers,” he said. “We’re working on that.”

Baldwin said Carr didn’t violate any departmental policies by confronting the suspects in the restaurant..

“There wasn’t going to be a safer place to do it,” he said. “Anywhere you went that weekend there was going to be lots of people.”

When Briggs posted the picture from the Wendy’s in Pigeon Forge to her Facebook page, she wrote, “Last pic...will love u till the end.”

About 30 minutes before the shooting, a man posted in response to Briggs’ picture, “Monica Briggs please just think about whatever you are about to do!”