Therese Apel

The Clarion-Ledger

A man shot and killed by a deputy had been involved in an altercation with his neighbors when authorities arrived on the scene, Rankin County Sheriff Bryan Bailey said.

"It's pretty complicated," Bailey said. "We responded to a disturbance involving firearms and it was his residence and another residence."

When a Pelahatchie police officer and the Rankin deputy, who Bailey says is a veteran with several years on the force, arrived on the scene, Bailey said William Buchanan Stingley, Jr., 40, came out into the yard, and he was armed.

"He pointed a weapon at the deputy and the deputy fired one fatal shot," Bailey said. "After he asked him repeatedly to stand down."

He would not elaborate on the details of the disturbance, but photos from television helicopters show several police placards that are usually used to mark shell casings and other evidence on the scene.

Bailey said some of his deputies were familiar with Stingley, but did not say if it was personally or because they had dealt with him professionally.

Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman Warren Strain said the bureau will do an investigation into the shooting, which is routine in a situation where an officer has been involved in a fatal shooting.

Once the investigation is complete, the case will be sent to grand jury, said Rankin County District Attorney Michael Guest.

"We've always presented those to the grand jury so an independent body can review the findings of the investigation, and so there are as many safeguards as possible in place," Guest said. "We do that in every case just so the public can feel safe that everything in the investigation is being handled appropriately."

The deputy, whose name has not been released, is on paid leave, which is procedure in this kind of situation. He is shaken up, the sheriff said.

"He's upset and distraught over it," Bailey said. "But he did what he had to do to protect himself and the public."

Bailey said this morning he is contacting Mississippi Law Enforcement Alliance for Peer Support (L.E.A.P.S.) this morning to bring in peer counselors for the deputy and anyone else who might need it. L.E.A.P.S. responds to critical incidents including officer involved shootings, officer suicide, and line-of-duty deaths.

In a situation like Tuesday evening's, Bailey said, proper equipment and training are a must. He said that's what allowed his deputy to keep his head under that kind of pressure, and potentially what saved his life and the lives of the other people on the scene.

Rankin County has not had an officer-involved shooting that resulted in the subject's death while Bailey has been in office, nor, he said, when he was undersheriff under Ronnie Pennington.

Read more about L.E.A.P.S. at http://www.msleaps.org .