TRENTON -- A state grand jury on Wednesday decided not to file charges against four police officers involved in the fatal shooting of a Newark man during a vehicle pursuit last year, the state Attorney General's office announced.

Two Lyndhurst police officers, a Rutherford officer and a State Police trooper did not act criminally when they shot at 23-year-old Kashad Ashford as he allegedly charged them with a stolen SUV in September 2014, the grand jury found.

The grand jury considered criminal charges against each of the four officers who had fired their weapons, but found no cause to indict "based upon their consideration of the facts, evidence and testimony from the investigation by the Attorney General's Shooting Response Team," the Attorney General's statement said.

Following the decision, police released new details of their investigation into the case while Ashford's family and their supporters called his shooting "excessive force." They said they would ask for a federal investigation into Ashford's killing.

"What else can we expect? We're just offended that the whole system has failed this family," said Cecille Hepburn, Ashford's grandmother, on Wednesday. "The system is as the system is. The police can't police the police."

The case was investigated by the Shooting Response Team, a group of attorneys and detectives from the Division of Criminal Justice and the State Police Major Crime Unit, which released its findings following the grand jury decision Wednesday.

The pursuit began with an alleged car theft at 2:12 a.m. last Sept. 16, according to a statement from the Attorney General's office, when a North Arlington woman reported someone had tried to break into her car, which was parked in her driveway.

RELATED:

Man fatally shot by police in Rutherford rammed police car, attorney general says

The woman shouted from her window, police said, and two men -- later identified as Ashford and Jemmaine T. Bynes, 31, of East Orange -- allegedly fled the scene in a stolen black Nissan Armada SUV, running a red light and driving north at high speeds. The pursuit spanned several Bergen County towns, and officers from multiple jurisdictions were involved.

Police gave chase, and a Lyndhurst officer pursued the SUV with its lights and sirens on as the SUV weaved through a residential area, "recklessly running many red lights and stop signs and going airborne over some hills," the statement said. Police claim in the pursuit, the car swerved into oncoming traffic in an attempt to ram a police cruiser head-on.

The scene of the shooting in Rutherford, Sept. 16, 2014.

The SUV, which police say was being driven by Ashford, crashed into a concrete barrier near a Route 3 overpass, and pursuing police surrounded the vehicle.

A Lyndhurst police officer told the state investigators he exited his car with his gun drawn and approached the SUV with several other police officers, and commanded Ashford to stop the vehicle, which was "jerking in a rear and forward motion as the driver attempted to get free of the debris and barriers."

The officer told investigators he saw Ashford shift the SUV into drive and, fearing he and his fellow officers would be struck, fired three shots "and saw the driver go lifeless."

"He said that he believed he had no choice but to shoot the driver," the Attorney General's statement said.

A second Lyndhurst officer told investigators he also exited his vehicle with his gun drawn and approached the SUV, which "was bucking back and forth like it was trying to push that patrol car out of the way," the statement said. He said he and his fellow Lyndhurst officer shouted for the driver of the SUV to turn off the vehicle and show his hands.

The second officer told the investigators Ashford had his left hand on the steering wheel and was crouching down, "like he was trying to grab something."

Fearing he was going for a weapon, the second Lyndhurst officer fired six shots, the statement said.

The medical examiner and ballistics reports found Ashford sustained seven gunshot wounds, all of which appeared to come from the Lyndhurst officers' guns.

A Rutherford police officer who claimed he was nearly struck by the SUV in the pursuit also fired a single shot, which did not strike Ashford, investigators found. The state trooper arrived at the scene about 40 seconds after the gunfire started and, in a haze of smoke, fired four rounds from a 12-gauge shotgun, which did not strike anyone.

Bynes, the passenger, had "reclined the passenger seat and was lying back" in the SUV as police tried to enter the vehicle, which was lodged between patrol cars as its wheels spun.

"Smoke from the spinning tires continued to engulf the SUV, obscuring their vision, and gravel and debris were being thrown from the right rear wheel, where the tire had melted away," the statement said.

One of the Lyndhurst officers broke a window with his baton and removed Bynes, who had not been wounded and did not resist arrest, the investigators found. Police then pulled Ashford from the SUV and began to administer CPR, the statement said.

EMT crews later arrived and attempted CPR, and Ashford was taken to Hackensack Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead around 7:05 a.m. After the shooting, police recovered a loaded .357-caliber revolver from Ashford's side of the vehicle, authorities said, and an autopsy report determined Ashford had marijuana and the synthetic drug known as "bath salts" in his system.

Bynes was charged with several theft and weapons charges, but was shot and killed in Newark earlier this year.

MORE

:

Newark murder victim was second suspect in Lyndhurst fatal police shooting

Ashford's grandmother disputed some of the findings Wednesday, claiming family members had been kept in the dark during the investigation.

"Not one word has been spoken to this family, period," Hepburn said. "We pick up a body and that's all we know."

She said police were right to pursue and attempt to arrest Kashad, who had driven recklessly, but that the crash had subdued him and the multiple shots fired amounted to "excessive force."

'Was Kashad wrong? Absolutely," she said. "But it doesn't stop me from fighting for him and it doesn't stop me from loving him. I want the truth. Show us Kashad deserved what he got and we'll go away."

Larry Hamm, the chairman of the Newark-based People's Organization For Progress, said Wednesday that his group would join Ashford's family at a press conference Thursday to demand U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman's office take up the case.

"We condemn this decision as a failure of this grand jury in particular and evidence that the grand jury system fails when it comes to holding officers accountable for killing civilians," he said.

Ashford's family has also asked for the names of the officers involved in the shooting, who were not identified. Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for the Attorney General's office, said the officers were not identified because they had not been criminally charged.

S.P. Sullivan may be reached at ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter. Find NJ.com on Facebook.