Ricky Lynn Bunch, Tazewell man fatally shot by police. (CLAIBORNE COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE)

SHARE

By Jamie Satterfield of the Knoxville News Sentinel

The widow of an East Tennessee man fatally shot by law enforcement has filed a $13 million federal civil-rights lawsuit alleging authorities orchestrated his death through both negligence and ill will.

Melinda Bunch, the widow of Ricky Lynn Bunch, is suing Claiborne County Sheriff David Ray, Grainger County Sheriff James Harville and deputies with both men's agencies in her husband's September 2014 shooting death. Ricky Bunch, 40, of Tazewell died in a hail of bullets fired by deputies from both agencies in a confrontation that began with a chase in Claiborne County and ended in what authorities described as a standoff on a roadway in Grainger County.

PDF: Lawsuit filed in shooting death of Ricky Lynn Bunch

In the lawsuit, attorney Troy Bowlin lists among the traditional causes of action cited in such lawsuits a novel one — "state created danger." While stopping short of alleging Bunch's death was intentional, Bowlin suggests in the lawsuit Ray had cause to want Bunch silenced that casts suspicion over every action and reaction taken on the day Bunch died.

According to the lawsuit, Bunch was beaten up in the Claiborne County Jail two weeks before the fatal shooting and later told his lover — Ray's former administrative secretary — he planned to sue Ray and the Claiborne County Sheriff's Office. The woman is identified in the lawsuit but not named as a defendant. Bowlin alleges the lover told Ray about Bunch's threats.

On the day of the fatal shooting, Bunch had borrowed a relative's car, returned it but then took it again without permission, the lawsuit stated. The relative did not report the car stolen, but someone else did, Bowlin wrote. The relative later confirmed to Claiborne deputies Bunch did not have his permission to take the car a second time, but the lawsuit is silent on whether the relative filed a formal theft complaint.

"Instead of waiting for Mr. Bunch to return to the house with (the relative's) car and making a charging decision then, Claiborne County Sheriff's Department commenced a search for the car and Ricky Lynn Bunch and when located, commenced a chase, ultimately enlisting the aid of Grainger County Sheriffs Department, Tennessee Highway Patrol, Tazewell Police Department and New Tazewell Police Department," the lawsuit stated.

Ray and his deputies knew Bunch suffered mental issues and went armed with guns for which he had a carry permit but, the lawsuit alleges, did not convey either of those details to the other agencies involved in the case. Once in Grainger County, Bunch "blew the engine of the car he was driving," the lawsuit stated. "The car stopped in its tracks, preventing him from going anywhere and creating a stand off."

The lawsuit alleges someone with the Claiborne County Sheriff's Office summoned Melinda Bunch to the scene but then blocked her from getting near the actual standoff area. She was sitting in a patrol car and heard over the cruiser radio sounds from the shooting itself, according to the lawsuit.

The lawsuit alleges Ricky Bunch was shot "no less than 10 times." Although authorities later said Bunch had a rifle and a gun in his possession, the lawsuit alleged the weapons were never tested to determine if he fired them. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, which probed the shooting, has refused to turn over any information to the widow, the lawsuit alleged.

"Any claims that Mr. Bunch actually fired those weapons during the chase or the standoff cannot be substantiated because neither the TBI, nor any law enforcement department at the scene retained and tested those weapons, but instead returned them to (the widow)," Bowlin wrote. "Had they been fired by the Decedent they would have been retained by the TBI as evidence as was Mr. Bunch's pocket knife and cigarette lighter."

Attempts to reach attorneys for the defendants listed in the lawsuit were unsuccessful. The TBI is not named as a party. The defendants' attorneys have not yet filed responses.