Domestic Violence Incident Results in Officer Involved Shooting February 25, 2002

Los Angeles: On Sunday, February 24, 2002, at approximately 5:50 PM, a Los Angeles Police Department Metropolitan Division K-9 sergeant and K-9 Officers G. Olson, 42 years of age, 18 years with the Department and M. Peters, 32 years of age, 10 years with the Department, were conducting a K-9 search for an assault with a deadly weapon suspect at a residence in the 2500 block of Tilden Avenue. The officers and sergeant had been informed that the resident of the location, 55 year old, Douglas Kim, had assaulted his wife, bludgeoned his son and fired a handgun within the residence. The officers believed the suspect might have been hiding within the residence. The officers searched the residence and discovered an attic access door in the closet of the east bedroom. When the sergeant attempted to open the access door, Kim, who was secreted in the attic, fired two rounds from a handgun. Officer Olson, fearing for his life and the lives of his fellow officers, fired multiple rounds from his shotgun. The officers and sergeant then re-deployed to a safer location outside of the residence. At this time, the officers requested the assistance of the LAPD SWAT team, who are better trained and equipped to deal with armed and barricaded suspects.

While waiting for the deployment of the SWAT team, Officers Olson and Peters positioned themselves at the east window of the bedroom and conducted a surveillance of the bedroom closet. After approximately one hour, the officers observed Kim’s foot protrude from the attic. The officers ordered Kim to display his hands and slowly exit the attic. Kim rapidly jumped from the attic, his right hand hidden from the officers’ view. Kim quickly turned toward the officers. Olson and Peters, believing that Kim was about to point a handgun at them and fire again, fired multiple rounds at Kim. Kim fell into the closet; however, the officers were not able to observe the suspect’s hands. Fearing that Kim remained a threat; the officers again waited for the deployment of the SWAT officers. During this time, Kim was continually ordered to display his hands. Upon receiving no response from Kim, a SWAT officer fired two less-than-lethal rounds, striking the suspect. Kim did not respond and was subsequently taken into custody. It was determined that Kim had been wounded. Los Angeles Fire Department Paramedics were summoned and pronounced Kim dead.

A handgun was recovered from the closet where Kim had fallen. No officers were injured as a result of this incident. As a result of Kim’s earlier assault on his wife and son, Kim’s 18 year-old son was treated and released for a laceration to his head. Kim’s 45 year-old wife received minor injuries that did not require medical attention.

Detectives from Robbery Homicide Division and Critical Incident Investigation Division are conducting the investigation into this incident. For further information, contact Media Relations Section at 213-485-3586.

This press release was prepared by Sergeant John Pasquariello, Media Relations Section.