J.D. Mullane

Congressman Mike Fitzpatrick is a big-government Republican and, as such, he wants the federal government to get kids off their duffs, into fresh air and sunshine to increase their “environmental literacy.”

Cloistered kids clustered around gaming consoles can’t tell a skunk from skunk weed. There oughta’ be a law – and Mike’s got it.

He has co-sponsored the “No Child Left Inside Act,” authorizing the U.S. Department of Education to grant money to schools that teach “relationships and interactions between natural and man-made environments.”

That Bucks County’s lovely Silver Lake Nature Center in Bristol Township, which already provides this education for free every Sunday from 2 to 3 p.m., apparently has slipped the mind of Fitzpatrick, a former county commissioner.

For years, I took my kids to Silver Lake’s Sunday Strolls, learning about the secret lives of groundhogs, observing honey-making bees, tapping a maple tree for sap, and seeing frogs, foxes and fawns up close. If you want a child’s environmental IQ to soar, all the child has to do is show up at a Silver Lake Sunday Stroll. If they don’t show, it’s not their fault. Blame the grownups.

The vast lack of environmental literacy can be traced to the perpetual fears of overprotective parents. From the time U.S. children are toddlers, they’re containerized in playpens, high chairs, car seats and at day care centers. I doubt any commie police state from the 20th century had goons watching citizens as closely as American parents watch their children today. But even in the U.S., the state is beginning to muscle in.

In August, a Florida woman was arrested and charged with felony child neglect for allowing her 7-year-old son to walk to a local park alone. Another parent ratted out the boy’s mother to the Port St. Lucie cops, who arrested and jailed her, even though the park was safe and she had provided her son with a cellphone. (After a crush of negative publicity, prosecutors declined to prosecute.)

Forty years ago, this would be shocking. There’s nothing more natural than a kid playing in woods, fields or parks. Set them free to explore on their own and the experiences and memories will be better than any weekend jaunt to Disney.

I know how this issue alarms Fitzpatrick, and he’s right to be alarmed. Several years ago, we discussed Richard Louv’s “Last Child in the Woods,” which described how American children are estranged from nature, unlike those of us who grew up in Levittown in the 1960s and ’70s.

Levittown’s mid-20th century builders wanted children to explore the outdoors. Abraham Levitt had more than 50,000 fruit trees planted throughout the 41 sections. He mused how a child could walk barefoot all summer and, in September, walk home from a neighborhood school, pick an apple and eat it while resting in the shade of the tree.

There isn’t a kid who grew up in Levittown in our generation who doesn’t have great fondness for the memories of always being outdoors, following a creek, catching crayfish, fireflies or box turtles. We had something kids today don’t have: parents who let us live naturally and allowed us to spend all the unstructured playtime we wanted outdoors. It was universally encouraged. Maybe there was more of a hippie vibe to L-town than we realized.

It was a different time, though. Not more innocent, but certainly less paranoid.

No law in Congress can increase a child’s “environmental IQ.” Only parents can do that, and it’s unlikely they will. This generation wants security through technology. They’ll get it, too.

This week, Michio Kaku, the American theoretical physicist, said that within 50 years, scientists will be able to manipulate human memory so any vacation you desire will be “uploaded” to your brain. No need to leave home. You’ll believe you were in a place you never were.

Sounds like something Congress needs to outlaw.

J.D. Mullane can be reached at 215-949-5745 or at jmullane@calkins.com. Twitter @jdmullane.