Chike Erokwu

cerokwu@gannett.com

MANSFIELD – An administrative review of actions taken by two police officers in the fatal shooting of a homicide suspect on Sept. 22 indicated the officers acted in accordance with department policy.

Mansfield Police Sgt. Patrick Williams and Officer Orlando Chatman were cleared to return to work Tuesday, according to a release issued by the Mansfield Police Department.

Chief Ken Coontz said Williams and Chatman were mentally and physically cleared to return to duty.

Both officers were placed on administrative leave as part of standard department procedure.

"Based on the facts we have on hand, it appears they acted with department policy," Coontz said.

The administrative review included a review of available facts and evidence along with statements submitted by both officers.

The Bureau of Criminal Investigation will independently review the shooting incident; Coontz said that investigation will include autopsy information which may not be available for several months.

Results of the BCI investigation will be presented to a Richland County grand jury for review. Mansfield police will conduct an internal investigation upon completion of the grand jury. Coontz said details on what happened during the shooting will be released after grand jury is dismissed.

Norwalk resident Shane Lambert was fatally shot the morning of Sept. 22 after he was confronted by officers during a search of a vacant house at 225 Herman Ave.

Norwalk Police had wanted Lambert for questioning as they believe he killed 57-year-old Norwalk resident James Berens less than 72 hours before Lambert was fatally shot in Mansfield.

The Herman Avenue vacant house sits behind 226 Clairmont Ave., where three of Lambert's sons stay.

Lambert's stepmother Pam Rhodes said when she came home from work around 10 p.m. Sunday, Lambert wasn't there.

It wasn't until 3 a.m. Monday when police knocked on her door looking for the wanted man. Rhodes said she was talking to four officers in the home when she heard a gun go off outside and three officers took off running.

cerokwu@gannett.com

419-521-7220

Twitter: @ChikeErokwu