An autopsy will be conducted today for a Davenport man who police say was shot and killed following a three-hour standoff with police Monday night.

The autopsy for James A. Cave, 54, of Davenport, will be done at University Hospitals in Iowa City, the Scott County Sheriff's Department said Tuesday in a news release.

No other information, including the names of the four officers involved in the incident, was released.

According to a news release from the Davenport Police Department, police were called around 7:15 p.m. to a home at 2814 Fair Ave. for a report of a man who was waving guns and threatening to harm himself.

The person who called police was inside the residence and out of harm’s way. The caller told police that the man was alone in the garage and “possibly may want to die by police fire.”

Around 7:37 p.m., the police department’s trained negotiators arrived at the home and began talking to the man. During that time, the man began to drink and seemed to get more irrational and agitated, according to police.

After about three hours of negotiations and no opportunity to create any type of diversion, the man aggressively advanced toward officers with one weapon in his waistband and another in his hand, according to police.

The man was subsequently shot by police officers. Four officers involved with the incident were placed on administrative leave as directed by department policy.

The Scott County Sheriff’s Office and the Iowa Department of Public Safety, Division of Criminal Investigation, are investigating the incident.

Maj. Mike Brown of the sheriff's department said Tuesday that deputies are still investigating the case.

Abigail Jones, 16, who lives across the street, said she returned home around 9 p.m. Monday and had gone to bed. She said she heard shots fired sometime around 10:30 p.m.

“I know there were two rounds of it (shots),” she said. “There were a few shots one time and a few shots another time.”

Jones, who has lived in the area all her life, said the neighborhood is generally pretty quiet. She said she did not know who lived in the house.

Cave’s police record includes mostly traffic-related infractions, beginning in 1998. His record also includes three convictions for operating while intoxicated, or OWI.

He pleaded guilty in 2005, 2008 and 2013 in Scott County to driving while his license was denied, suspended, canceled or revoked.

This is the second officer-involved shooting in Davenport in more than a month.

Alvis Curtis Jennings, 61, of Davenport, was fatally shot by two Davenport Police officers in his home at 602 W. 9th St. Aug. 13.

Police were called to the house after a report of a person threatening another with a knife. Police confronted Jennings, who went at them with a knife, and fired their weapons. The officers later were cleared of any wrongdoing.

(Barb Ickes contributed to this report.)