Tyler Whetstone

twhetstone@jacksonsun.com

A lawsuit over the shooting death of Dillon McGee by a Madison County sheriff’s deputy is being put on hold while the FBI investigates the case, according to documents filed in U.S. District Court.

According to a motion filed by the defense, Madison County Sheriff John Mehr was told on Feb. 9 that the FBI, at the direction of the U.S. Department of Justice, had opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.

Assistant Special Agent in Charge Jeremy Baker with the FBI’s Memphis office told The Jackson Sun on Wednesday that the investigation is still ongoing. Baker said an FBI investigation into whether excessive force was used by an officer in a shooting is not unusual.

According to previous statements released from the Madison County Sheriff’s Office, Sgt. Thomas Knolton and Sgt. Terry Stewart were present at the time of the shooting. Knolton is the deputy who shot McGee, according to court documents.

In the civil lawsuit, McGee’s family is suing Knolton, Mehr and Madison County alleging civil rights violations.

A motion filed by the defense asked to delay proceedings in the civil case because of the possibility that criminal charges against Knolton could be filed as a result of the FBI’s investigation, according to court documents. No criminal charges currently have been filed. In February, a Madison County grand jury declined to indict Knolton or anyone else involved in the incident based on the results of a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation report.

Mehr declined to comment on any of the specifics of the case. According to court documents, defense attorneys were concerned about the possibility Knolton’s testimony in the civil case could be used against him in the FBI investigation if a delay, or stay, was not approved in the lawsuit proceedings.

“The defendants contend that the substantial overlap of the FBI’s investigation and this civil action makes it very likely that deputy Knolton, absent a stay, will have to choose between potentially incriminating himself during discovery and trial, or invoking his right against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution and risk the adverse inferences that might result,” Judge Daniel Breen wrote in his ruling approving a 60-day delay. “Defendants insist that any civil rights investigation into the September 26, 2014 shooting would naturally have Knolton as a primary target. As to the status of the criminal case, Defendants concede that while Knolton has not been indicted, the Court still possesses broad discretion to grant a stay.”

The lawyer representing McGee’s father, Dennis Chadwick McGee, opposed a delay in the lawsuit proceedings.

“McGee maintains that because there have been no charges, and it is uncertain that the investigation will lead to any, (the) Defendants’ request is premature,” Breen wrote.

Dillon McGee, 18, was killed on Sept. 26 after he allegedly tried to run over one of the deputies with his car in a parking lot in Three Way, authorities have said. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation has said Knolton and Stewart approached McGee’s car because McGee had warrants for his arrest on charges of assault, domestic assault, aggravated robbery and false imprisonment.

The McGee family’s attorney Jeffrey Rosenblum contends that Knolton used excessive force and the department’s policies for force were “woefully ineffective” during the incident.

Rosenblum had little to say about the FBI investigation.

“I don’t control what the federal prosecutors do,” Rosenblum said. “We don’t have any control of the prosecution of the officers; we just have control over the civil case.”

The autopsy report says the shot that killed McGee entered through his left side or “flank” and exited through the upper right side of his chest. The path of the bullet was “from back to front, upward, and from left to right,” the report says. The autopsy also noted a “graze gunshot wound” to the top of McGee’s left shoulder.

A summary of the incident provided to the Office of the Medical Examiner by law enforcement also was included in the autopsy report. The summary states that McGee “was approached by law enforcement officers while sitting in a vehicle stationary in (a) parking lot” on Three Way Lane and “attempted to flee the scene nearly striking an officer when the other officer then fired on the vehicle.”

The lawsuit alleges that the deputies were out of harm’s way when McGee was killed.

Breen ruled that the civil case be stayed for 60 days while the FBI is investigating. Breen made his ruling on June 10. The 60 days ends Aug. 9.

Breen ruled against the indefinite stay that Michael Hill and James Pentecost, the attorneys for Knolton, Mehr and Madison County, had requested.

Both Hill and Rosenblum said the civil case will continue as planned with deadlines given for depositions when the stay is lifted.

Mehr said both Knolton and Stewart are continuing to work as active-duty deputies.

Reach Tyler at (731) 425-9629. Follow him on Twitter @tyler_whetstone.