The man fatally shot by a D.C. police officer Tuesday night was driving a stolen Jeep that also had stolen plates and was wanted in Prince George's County in an assault on a police officer the day before, police said yesterday.

The dead man, identified as Andre Jamar Gilreath, 31, of the 6800 block of Old Waterloo Road in Elkridge, Md., was at the wheel of a 1996 Jeep Cherokee Laredo about 6 p.m. Tuesday when officers from the police department's Mobile Force Unit tried to check out the car because they believed it was stolen, police said.

D.C. police are working with Prince George's County investigators, who had been looking for Gilreath after he allegedly assaulted a county police officer Monday, said D.C. Executive Assistant Police Chief Terrance W. Gainer. According to court records, Gilreath had been arrested numerous times in Maryland in connection with auto thefts and petty thefts.

The vehicle he was in Tuesday night had been reported stolen in Laurel on Feb. 4, and its Maryland plates had been stolen from a car in Prince George's County on Feb. 8, police said.

Two veteran officers, Lt. Steven O'Dell and Sgt. James Ginger, approached the car in a parking lot in the Sursum Corda housing development, near M Street and First Terrace NW, police said. O'Dell, the commander of the unit with 31 years on the force, approached the car on the driver's side. Gilreath's door was open, police said, and when he gunned the car in reverse, the door struck O'Dell and dragged him a short distance.

O'Dell fired once at Gilreath, and Ginger, a 28-year veteran of the department, then fired several more shots, police said.

Alan Etter, a spokesman for the D.C. fire department, said Gilreath suffered a gunshot wound to his neck. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Washington Hospital Center.

Two witnesses said Tuesday night that they did not believe the officers were in danger and that no one had been struck by the vehicle when shots were fired. The witnesses agreed, however, that Gilreath ignored spoken orders to stop.

D.C. police said the two officers will remain on duty unless the investigation finds that the shootings were not justified.

A report released this week by D.C. police showed that police shootings increased dramatically in Washington last year, reversing a two-year decline.

Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey said many of the problems highlighted by the report, which analyzed police use of force in 2001, are being addressed at the police academy.

Last year, two police shootings occurred because of cars barreling toward the officers, the report said. That was a much bigger problem in the mid-1990s, when, in one five-year period, officers fired at cars 54 times.

Ramsey said that as a result of the earlier incidents, officers are now taught in the academy "ways not to find themselves in front of a car."

Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributed to this report.