One person is dead following a police chase on Friday, Sept. 26. Flint Township Police initiated the chase that ended near the intersection of Welch Boulevard and Seneca Street in Flint.

FLINT, MI -- Flint Township Police have identified the man that was killed following a police chase that ended in a crash in the city of Flint.

Hollis Ramon Rawls, 46 of Flint, was killed after he lost control of his 1996 Chevrolet pickup truck on Seneca Street, crashing it into a tree.

On Friday, Sept. 26, at 7:04 p.m. a Flint Township Police Officer attempted to stop Rawls on Flushing Road west of Ballenger Highway in Flint Township for a traffic violation, according to a news release from the Flint Township Police Department.

Rawls, the only person in the truck, fled from the officer at a high rate of speed. Police said Rawls lost control of the truck and left the roadway on Seneca Street just east of Welch Boulevard in the city of Flint. The vehicle hit a large tree after leaving the roadway.

Police said Rawls was transported to Hurley Medical Center where he died as a result of injuries he received in the crash.

Rawls' operators license was suspended seven times at the time of the incident and he also had a felony warrant for his arrest for failure to appear on an original charge of aggravated assault on a police officer, according to the release.

The incident is still under investigation by traffic crash investigators from the Flint Police Department and the Michigan State Police.

According to Flint Journal records, this is the fifth person killed in a police pursuit in Genesee County this year.

James Thompson, 75, died when a driver fleeing from Michigan State police hit Thompson's vehicle on Thursday, Feb. 13.

Jacqueline Nichols, was killed when the vehicle she was driving was struck Thursday, July 3, by a Michigan State Police cruiser pursuing a suspect on the city's north side.

On June 12, Tiphanie Fayette Mayfield, 42, died after she was injured as a result of a crash involving a trooper near Mackin Road and Caldwell Avenue. Mayfield was not involved in the chase.

31-year-old Samuel Jackson was killed on Thursday, Aug. 21, when he attempted to flee from Michigan State Police and crashed his motorcycle into an oncoming car. The driver of the car was uninjured.

Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to call the Flint Township Police Department at 810-600-3250, the Flint Police Department at 810-237-6801, or to submit an anonymous tip call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-SPEAK-UP, or text CSM and your tip to CRIMES (274637) or online at www.1800speakup.org.

Amanda Emery is a police reporter for MLive-Flint Journal. Contact her at aemery@mlive.com or 810-285-0792. Follow her on Twitter or Facebook.