article

ATLANTA (AP) — A federal agent made arrangements to buy drugs and an assault rifle, hoping to build a case against a dangerous criminal. But the plan went wrong, ultimately leaving a suspect dead and the agent seriously injured.

Instead of making the sale as agreed outside a convenience store in Athens, the agent's contact and his associates decided to rob him. In the chaos that followed, one of three suspects was shot and killed before a second suspect managed to wrestle the agent's gun from him and shoot the agent as he fled.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agent, who's identified in court documents only as B.A. for his protection, survived and continues to work for the agency. Undercover operations such as the one he was conducting are inherently risky but are necessary to get to the most violent offenders, said Atlanta office Assistant Special Agent in Charge John Schmidt.

"We're looking at the people who are having a negative impact on the community, that are the most violent offenders, what we consider trigger pullers, or people that are orchestrating violence against others in that community," he said. "Those are the people we set our sights on."

According to court filings in the case:

Steven Maurice McKinley met with Dwight Heard Jr. and Javonta Terrell Darden on Sept. 30, 2014. As they drank Crown Royal whisky and smoked marijuana, McKinley told the others that about a month earlier, he had sold a man what appeared to be cocaine and marijuana. The marijuana was real, but the cocaine was fake.

Now, he'd agreed to sell the same man an assault rifle and some marijuana for $800, McKinley told the others.

What McKinley didn't know was that the man was actually an undercover agent ATF agent. Heard, however, was suspicious. He warned that since McKinley had previously sold him fake cocaine, the guy probably wanted to meet again to either kill McKinley or because he was an undercover cop.

But McKinley believed B.A. was inexperienced because he'd called back and said the drugs were good. He insisted they go forward with the deal, but the three decided that instead of making the sale they'd rob B.A.

McKinley met the agent at a convenience store, got in his vehicle and drove with him to a spot next to a wooded area. Darden, carrying a duffel bag filled with sticks instead of a gun, approached and spoke to B.A. through the window. Then B.A. and McKinley got out of the vehicle and walked behind the small wooded area, out of sight of B.A.'s backup agents.

Darden dropped the bag, pulled out a handgun and ordered B.A. to the ground. He took $400 from B.A.'s pocket as McKinley rummaged through the agent's vehicle.

B.A. was able to pull his service pistol and shoot Darden, who died from his injuries as the two fought. McKinley got hold of the agent's gun and, as B.A. ran for his life, McKinley shot at him, hitting him in the right shoulder.

Other law enforcement agents quickly responded and took McKinley into custody. Heard, who had driven away without waiting for McKinley and Darden after hearing the shots and seeing the visibly injured agent stagger back toward the convenience store, was arrested later.

McKinley pleaded guilty in August to two counts, including a charge of attempt to kill a federal officer. He's scheduled to be sentenced Tuesday. Heard pleaded guilty in September to two counts, including a charge of conspiracy to commit robbery of the money of the United States. He's set for sentencing in January.

___

Follow Kate Brumback on Twitter: http://twitter.com/katebrumback