Armed Suspect Fatally Shot at 19210 Gulf Freeway

October 1, 2014 - Houston police are investigating an incident in which a Houston police officer fatally shot an armed suspect at 19210 Gulf Freeway (South Interstate Highway 45) service road about 10:40 a.m. on Tuesday (September 30).



The male suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. His identity is pending verification by the Harris County Institute of Forensic Sciences.



Officer Q. Vu, who discharged his duty weapon, was not injured in the incident. Officer Vu was sworn in as an officer in September 2010 and is assigned to the Clear Lake Patrol Division.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant R. Rodriguez, Senior Police Officer M. Condon and Officer M. Burrow reported:



HPD Clear Lake Division officers were conducting investigations in the area when they noticed a suspicious vehicle. Officers followed the vehicle and requested marked HPD patrol units to conduct a traffic stop. Officer Vu and his partner, riding in a two-man unit, conducted a traffic stop at the above address and approached to speak with the suspects inside.



Officer Vu's partner made contact with the male suspect (passenger) who, at that time, gave the officer a false name. The officer then asked the suspect to exit the vehicle. As the officer attempted to detain the suspect, the male produced a gun and fired at the officer, who was not struck. The suspect and the officer then struggled over the weapon. Officer Vu gave the suspect repeated verbal commands to drop the weapon, which were ignored. Additional shots were fired by the suspect, but no one was struck. Fearing for his and his partner's lives, Officer Vu discharged his duty weapon and the suspect was struck. HFD paramedics responded to the scene and pronounced the suspect deceased. The second officer was transported to Clear Lake Regional Medical Center to be treated for minor injuries.



As is customary in HPD officer-involved shooting incidents in the city limits, this case is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions, as well as the Harris County District Attorney's Office.



VHS/JFC 10-1-14

Inc. #124142914

