Editor's note: This story has been updated to add information about video also released with the Ventura County District Attorney's Office report.

California Highway Patrol Officer Todd Barrett and Ventura County Sheriff's Sgt. Ron Helus acted justifiably and did not commit criminal acts when they discharged their weapons to stop the attack at the Borderline Bar & Grill, the District Attorney's Office has found in a report released Thursday.

The results of the investigation of the officer-involved shootings showed Barrett was aiming at gunman Ian David Long when he inadvertently struck Helus and killed him, but that the fatal shooting at the Thousand Oaks bar on Nov. 7, 2018, was a justifiable homicide.

Long struck Helus multiple times and killed 11 others before fatally shooting himself in the head, but the round that killed Helus came from Barrett's rifle, the Ventura County Medical Examiner's Office has concluded.

District Attorney Greg Totten also released a series of videos on the incident. Included are his remarks about the investigation, a nearly 9-minute video and audio compilation of the incident, dashboard camera footage from a California Highway Patrol vehicle plus security footage from a nearby building and from Borderline's front desk and front office.

The report shows for the first time a detailed sequence of events that led to the death of Helus, a longtime officer in the sheriff's office.

This is what the report shows:

Less than a minute after Helus and Barrett entered the bar that night, Long began firing at the officers.

Barrett, who was crouched by a victim, sprung to his feet and retreated out the door. Helus also moved toward the door when his feet got tangled in a rope and fell to the ground.

News:Simi quietly completes memorial for victims of Borderline, Vegas shootings

Helus crawled out the door and began to stand at the same time that Barrett began to return fire at Long. One of Barrett's shots hit Helus, which was later determined to be a fatal shot to his heart, county officials said.

After he was shot and fell to the ground, Helus rolled over on his back and kept firing at Long through a window. Barrett also continued to fire.

Barrett and another CHP officer, Lidia Espinoza, got to Borderline first that night, having pulled over a vehicle nearby a few minutes before Long went into the bar and started shooting at 11:18 p.m.

People running from Borderline told the officers someone was shooting as Espinoza said she began to hear the “pop, pop, pop” of gunfire.

Helus got to the Borderline parking lot two minutes after the CHP officers. By 11:25 p.m., the three began walking to the front entrance.

Helus went in first, using his radio to ask for “a lot of ambulances, fire” after seeing victims down on the ground inside.

Long was inside an office watching the officers come in on video feeds from security cameras. He began shooting from the office door.

The entire gun battle lasted less than a minute and had ended by 11:27 p.m. No one else inside the bar was shot after the officers engaged Long.

Roughly 20 minutes later, law enforcement officers rescued Helus from the landing where he had fallen after being shot. Helus was taken to a Thousand Oaks hospital where he was later pronounced dead.

The report ties the 20-minute gap between the time Helus was downed and the rescue to lack of communication. Barrett alerted the CHP's dispatch unit within seconds of Helus' plight, but the agency's dispatch system is on a separate frequency than the sheriff's so the call was not heard by sheriff's dispatchers or any responding deputies, the report said.

"There was a delay," Sheriff's Capt. Eric Buschow said. "People in our agency didn't have that information."

It would be another 27 minutes after Helus was rescued before law enforcement again entered Borderline at 12:13 a.m.

Long was found dead in the front office, victims were located and others hiding inside were rescued.

The report says Barrett "honestly and reasonably believed" that he and Helus along with Espinoza were in imminent threat of death or great bodily injury from Long. Espinoza told the DA's Office she did not fire any shots during the incident.

Barrett used no more force than reasonably necessary to defend against the threat posed by Long, prosecutors found. They also concluded that his use of deadly force against the gunman was justified as a lawful act of self-defense and defense of others.

Barrett had been a CHP instructor on active shootings and tactical care of casualties for 18 months before Borderline and had attended multiple trainings, the report said.

The report also says Helus used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against the threat posed by Long. His use of deadly force against the gunman was justified as a lawful act of self-defense and defense of others, prosecutors concluded.

News:Mental health progress uneven since Borderline shooting

If Long had survived, he could have been prosecuted for Helus’ death as a provocative act murder, prosecutors said. That charge applies when the perpetrator of a crime maliciously commits an act that is likely to result in death and the victim kills in reasonable response to that act, according to the report.

Attorneys in Totten's office reviewed the actions of Barrett and Helus because they discharged firearms at the bar, making them subject to the district attorney's routine investigations of officer-involved shootings.

The sheriff's office submitted its investigative reports on Borderline to the DA's office in late January, a little over a year after the attack on the bar.

The DA's analysis is the first official report to be released on the shooting. Still pending are the release of the sheriff's office review of the law enforcement response and homicide detectives' in-depth investigation of the mass shooting.

Buschow concurred with the DA's findings.

"I think it's pretty clear the use of deadly force by both officers was appropriate, given the nature of the situation they were facing at the time," he said.

A spokesman for the highway patrol said Barrett was declining to comment. Helus' widow, Karen Helus, could not immediately be reached.

Previous:Borderline Remembrance Drive honors victims while rolling through Thousand Oaks

-Staff writer Cheri Carlson contributed to this report.

Kathleen Wilson covers the Ventura County government, including the county health system, politics and social services. Reach her at kathleen.wilson@vcstar.com or 805-437-0271.