A man who died Wednesday after being shot by police was on antidepressants and had threatened to kill himself and the officers, according to a search warrant filed by the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation.

Randall Williams, 40, died about 2:30 a.m. Wednesday, a day after officers responded to a domestic disturbance at his east Casper home.

According to the search warrant filed Wednesday in Natrona County Circuit Court, Williams’ son called 911 at 9:24 p.m. Tuesday. The child was hiding in the basement of the home on the 1400 block of Hornchurch Avenue.

The boy, who was with his brother and stepbrother, allegedly told dispatchers his parents were upstairs fighting and that his step-father had a gun.

Williams’ wife later told authorities her husband had recently started using steroids and they had argued about it. The warrant isn't clear about exactly when the argument took place.

Two police officers, Benjamin Flake and Christopher Henry, responded to the call. They were accompanied by Wyoming Highway Patrol Trooper Bill Kirkman, the warrant states.

Williams allegedly went to the door to meet the officers with a gun in his hand. For several minutes Williams walked back and forth from the home’s kitchen while talking about harming himself.

The officers said Williams returned to the entryway with a second gun and pointed both firearms at his head. The three law enforcement officers repeatedly told Williams to drop the guns.

Then Williams allegedly made a statement to his wife about shooting the officers, lowered one of the handguns to eye level and pointed it toward the officers.

Flake fired two rounds, which struck Williams in the abdomen.

According to the search warrant, Williams’ son told dispatchers at 9:37 p.m., “The cops just shot my stepfather.”

Williams was taken to Wyoming Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.

Natrona County Coroner Connie Jacobson said an autopsy was performed on Williams this week. The results will be available in six to eight weeks.

The Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation is investigating the incident because deadly force was used by a police officer, said Kebin Haller, deputy director of operations for DCI. The state crime lab has been asked to assist.

The search warrant requests permission to seize firearms from the home, as well as prescription medication and steroids.

DCI will collect evidence to be reviewed by the Natrona County District Attorney’s Office.

In a statement issued Wednesday, Casper Police Chief Jim Wetzel said his department will conduct its own investigation to "ensure officers' conduct and actions were in accordance with department policies and procedures."

Wetzel said the two officers involved were placed on paid administrative leave as part of Casper's policy.