MONTGOMERY COUNTY (WSLS 10) - Virginia State Police have released their findings in October's deadly house shooting in Christiansburg.

As you may recall, on October 2, 2014 a man later identified as Larry Allen Miller, called Montgomery County dispatch to report a domestic disturbance between he and his wife at their home at 10 Heather Drive.

Officers from both the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office and the Town of Christiansburg Police Department responded to the scene. Upon arrival, Sharon Miller, Larry Miller's wife, was found sitting in a vehicle in the driveway of the house.

Officers on the scene were alerted to the fact that a firearm had been discharged earlier, that Miller had access to firearms, that he was out of his psychiatric medications, and was potentially suicidal. After a few moments, Miller emerged from the house with a firearm. He approached officers in the front yard and pointed the firearm in the direction of one of the officers.

Virginia State Police say three officers then fired at Miller who was struck and killed by multiple rounds. The three law enforcement officers who shot were identified by their statements, video from the in-car cameras, and the collection of the firearms and spent shell casings at the scene.

Christiansburg Police Officers Travis Sawyer and Anthony Marshall, along with Montgomery County Sheriff's Deputy Clark Jackson all remained at the scene and turned their firearms over to their coworkers. All three fully cooperated with the investigation by the Virginia State Police.

POLICE OFFICERS INVOLVED IN FATAL CHRISTIANSBURG SHOOTING

Once the threat ended, law enforcement determined that the firearm that was pointed at them was a Ruger .357 Revolver. It was determined to be unloaded at the time it was brandished. Virginia State Police say this was not, and could not, have been known by the responding officers at the time Miller came out from his home.

The following report provides an overview of the incident, the investigative steps taken after the shooting, and the legal conclusions reached after analysis of the investigation's findings. Click HERE to read the full report.