The San Bernardino County District Attorney’s office has ruled that a fatal shooting of a man by two San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputies in a hostage situation on Oct. 1, 2014 was justified.

Deputies Justin Musella and Nicholas Tollefson, fearing the lives of hostages may be in danger, shot and killed Rafael Mejia after Mejia raised a gun as if he was preparing to shoot, according to the District Attorney’s report made public Thursday.

The incident began about 1:30 p.m. on the 7000 block of Osbun Road in Highland when deputies were dispatched after a man called to report that his wife and two children — a 4-year-old girl and an infant — were taken hostage, a sheriff’s spokeswoman said.

Deputies arrived and found Mejia at the door, holding a long gun, which was covered by a blanket, the report said. Deputies took cover behind a patrol car.

The sheriff’s SWAT team was requested. Deputies attempted to negotiate with Mejia, who refused to release his hostages, the report said. Musella and Tollefson took tactical positions.

Both deputies saw Mejia raise the weapon as if he was preparing to shoot, and fearing the suspect was going to shoot the hostages, both deputies fired their weapons, striking Mejia in the head, the report said. Mejia died at the scene.

SWAT members entered the residence and found Rose Mejia, the suspect’s cousin, and the two children. Rose Mejia had been shot with a wound consistent with the suspect’s weapon, the report said. She later died from her injuries.

“Suspect Mejia’s dangerous and violent action in firing his weapon, threatening to kill the hostages and subsequently raising his rifle establish a clear basis for a reasonable officer to believe that he or the hostages were in immediate threat of death or serious bodily injury,” the report authored by District Attorney Mike Ramos said. “Under the legal doctrine of self defense and defense of others, Deputy Musella and Deputy Tollefson were legally justified in shooting the suspect Rafael Mejia. No criminal liability attaches to the actions of the deputies.”