Police set up a perimeter near Avenue Y and East 26th Street in Brooklyn where police fatally shot someone armed with a knife on Oct. 03, 2014. (Kendall Rodriguez for New York Daily News)

An unhinged Brooklyn man who was attacked in June for harassing one of Kim Kardashian's entourage was shot and killed by police Friday after he lunged at them with a knife, officials said.

Cops shot Denis Volchkin, 28, following a tense 7 p.m. standoff that began when he attacked his 54-year-old mother inside her E. 26th St. home near Ave. X in Sheepshead Bay, officials said.

Advertisement

Four months earlier, Volchkin was punched by a bodyguard for Jonathan Cheban, a regular on "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," for bothering the reality TV star at a Brooklyn sushi restaurant, TMZ reported.

The bodyguard, Saverio (Sal the Contractor) Carollo was arrested for the incident in August, according to court documents. The case hasn't gone to trial.

Advertisement

Volchkin barged into his mother's home and choked her at about 5:30 p.m., but ran off when she called police.

Cops took a domestic violence report and left the woman's address, but were called back less than an hour and a half later — her son had returned, cops said.

Volchkin had ransacked his mother's home and was sitting on the sofa with at least three knives next to him when police arrived, police said.

"When a guy has that many knives on him, you have to be careful," according to one police source.

The officers tried to talk Volchkin into surrendering, but he just became more agitated and lunged at the officers with a knife in his hand.

One of the two officers shot Volchkin once in chest after he refused orders to drop the knife, police said.

Multiple police cruisers roared down E. 26th St. as the tense standoff unfolded, neighbors said.

Denis Volchkin, 28, was killed after he caused a raucous at his mother's home in Sheepshead Bay. (Kendall Rodriguez/for New York Daily News)

"Open the door! Open the door!" a cop was heard yelling to the responding officers inside before the single shot was heard.

Advertisement

The cop ultimately knocked down the door and went inside, said one block resident, who would only identify herself as Lina.

"(My neighbor) said 'Keep moving! It's dangerous!" said Lina, who was walking her dog when police arrived.

A moment later, the grim-faced cop exited the home.

"He went to the car and he said 'He's down,'" she said.

Other neighbors heard a woman yelling for help.

Paramedics rushed Volchkin to Coney Island Hospital, where he died of his injuries just before 8 p.m.

Advertisement

The two officers were taken to Lutheran Medical Center for observation.

Police were investigating the incident Friday night.

On June 1, Cheban instagrammed that he and some friends were dining at a sushi restaurant a short distance from Volchkin's home.

Kim Kardashian and Jonathan Cheban arrive at the Eiffel tower on May 22, 2014 in Paris, France. Cheban's bodyguard punched the shooting victim in June. (Marc Piasecki/GC Images)

Volchkin showed up and started harassing Cheban, but Carollo interceded and punched him in the face.

At the time of the incident, Volchkin had a knife hanging from his belt, TMZ reported.

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Residents said that Volchkin and his mother are usually quiet people.

Advertisement

This is the second time this week cops fired their guns.

On Monday night, three cops shot and killed 47-year-old Francisco Carvajal as he rushed them inside his former girlfriend's apartment on Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn.

Carvajal had forced himself into his ex's home and was threatening her with a knife when police arrived.

Cops also shot Rafael Laureano, 51, the woman's new boyfriend, in the back, killing him, officials said.

Laureano helped bust down the door and rushed past police to confront Carvajal, cops said.

With Rocco Parascandola