Phoenix has settled a wrongful-death lawsuit for $200,000 with the family of a 65-year-old man who died after Phoenix police officers choked, punched, smashed his head and used a stun gun on him in 2014.

The City Council approved the settlement during a formal meeting Wednesday.

The Phoenix Police Department declined to comment on the settlement. But in a response to the lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Phoenix in 2016, the officers' lawyers didn't admit any wrongdoing.

In a court document filed in the case, the officers' lawyer said the officers "were acting reasonably, in good faith, without malice, and based upon probable cause and/or reasonable suspicion."

The family of Balantine Mbegbu had initially filed an $8 million notice of claim, which is a precursor to a lawsuit, claiming the officers used excessive force when they tried to arrest him.

Lawsuit describes altercation

The incident started when police received a call on Oct. 6, 2014, of domestic violence at Mbegbu's house near 27th and Glendale avenues. The caller said the husband and wife were fighting, according to the lawsuit.

Officers Matthew Johnson and Celina Gonzales responded and initially spoke to Mbegbu's wife, who was outside the house waiting for a friend to give her a ride to pick up her son from basketball practice.

The officers told her they needed to speak to her husband, who was inside the house eating dinner, according to the lawsuit.

The officers entered the house and told Mbegbu why they were there, but Mbegbu denied he had fought his wife. Mbegbu repeatedly told the officers to get out of his house, but the officers refused.

Johnson "became very aggressive" and used his right hand to push Mbegbu's chest to get him to sit down, according to the lawsuit. Mbegbu swatted Johnson's arm away.

Gonzales called for backup and eventually two officers — Joel Zemaitis and William Weber — arrived. Gonzales later said she called for backup because Mbegbu had assaulted Johnson and the officers were going to arrest him, according to the lawsuit.

The officers didn't tell Mbegbu they were arresting him but "they grabbed his hand" and "without provocation, they physically attacked Balatine (Mbegbu) and slammed him to the ground," according to the lawsuit.

The officers then picked Mbegbu up and sat him back down in his chair. Johnson punched Mbegbu "and the heavy punch dazed" him, the lawsuit said. Then Zemaitis "within a few feet fired his Taser," striking Mbegbu in the chest.

After Zemaitis used the stun gun, Weber, along with the other officers, grabbed Mbegbu and "forcefully smashed his head to the ground," causing him to bleed from his head and his eye, according to the lawsuit.

The four officers then rolled Mbegbu over and handcuffed him. While Mbegbu was on the ground, he began to vomit, had foam around his mouth and had a hard time breathing, according to the lawsuit.

Mbegbu then had a heart attack, according to the lawsuit. He was taken to a hospital where a doctor pronounced him dead.

Police version of events

At the time, police reported that Mbegbu had been belligerent and confrontational.

"As one of the officers was trying to calm him down, Mr. Mbegbu backed the officer across the room and assaulted him," Phoenix police said at the time in a statement. "The officers were then able to temporarily calm Mr. Mbegbu down. When the additional officers arrived to assist, Mr. Mbegbu began to actively fight with them and violently resisted arrest. Mr. Mbegbu spilled hot liquid on the officers and kicked an officer in the groin."

During a protest outside Phoenix City Hall on Oct. 16, 2014, Mbegbu's widow, Ngozi, questioned why police used so much force.

"I really want to know, why did they kill my husband?" she said, according to a Phoenix New Times article.

Uriel Garcia covers public-safety issues in Arizona. Reach him at uriel.garcia@azcentral.com. Follow him on Twitter @ujohnnyg. Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.