Jason Pohl

jasonpohl@coloradoan.com

The Fort Collins police officer injured during a close-quarters gunfight earlier this month has been cleared of any criminal wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of Tino Martinez.

Fort Collins Police Services on Monday identified Officer Peter DeKraker as the officer involved in the Oct. 5 incident. Also Monday, Larimer County District Attorney Cliff Riedel issued an opinion that DeKraker "acted in a lawful, professional and justifiable manner" when he returned fire on Martinez after the man shot him once in the shoulder during a welfare check call.

DeKraker was responding to two separate calls from motorists who reported a man "sprawled out" on the second floor landing at Cimarron Square Townhouses on the southeast corner of Drake Road and Shields Street. DeKraker at 3:58 p.m. located the man, later identified as Martinez, 27, lying on his back, his feet dangling over the edge of the stairwell.

"The male was breathing but appeared to be either unconscious or asleep," the report indicates. The officer woke Martinez, who later said he had not consumed any drugs or alcohol but did not answer questions about prescription medications, Riedel's opinion states.

A witness from the third floor reported hearing the exchange.

No toxicology reports have yet been released.

Upon further questioning about a bicycle on the nearby sidewalk, Martinez "became more agitated, was swaying from side to side and became fidgety," according to the Riedel's report.

DeKraker stepped down the stairs to give Martinez space and called for backup, later asking Martinez to take off his backpack.

As he did so, he turned toward the officer with a black .38-caliber Ruger LCR revolver in his hand and started toward the officer.

DeKraker got into a "combat stance" and backed down the stairway, at which point Martinez lunged toward him and shot him in the shoulder strap of his bulletproof vest.

The officer then pulled out his Glock 22 .40-caliber handgun and fired a total of four shots back, tripping over the bicycle and falling into the grass at some point during the altercation. He saw Martinez trying to crawl to the north, blood smearing on the ground, immediately secured the man's revolver, and worked to treat Martinez as backup responded to the "shots fired" call, the report states.

Martinez died on the operating table at Medical Center of the Rockies in Loveland of a single gunshot wound to the lower chest.

"Our officer performed his duties exactly as I would expect him to do so," Fort Collins Police Chief John Hutto told the Coloradoan Monday. "He did so professionally. He did so with a great deal of skill and I think that he very much epitomized everything that Fort Collins Police Services is."

Though four spent casings and one live cartridge were located with the revolver, it remains unclear how many shots Martinez fired.

"Officer DeKraker reacted to this attempt on his life in an appropriate and fully justified manner," Riedel wrote, adding the officer "should be commended for his effort to serve the public and his quick reactions to save his own life."

In the days after the shooting, the Coloradoan learned that Martinez, a father of five, had active warrants out for his arrest. Police also confirmed Martinez was a known gang member in the area, and at least one neighbor had called the police multiple times on the man who became confrontational, usually after drinking.

Since 2007 Martinez had multiple money, theft, assault and domestic violence cases filed against him, including at least five cases since the beginning of 2014.

DeKraker started with Fort Collins police June 24, 2013, Fort Collins Police Services announced Monday. He has been released from the hospital and remains on paid administrative leave, as is standard procedure in officer-involved shootings.

The shooting will also be reviewed by an internal review board and the Fort Collins Citizens Review Board.

Reporter Jason Pohl covers breaking news for the Coloradoan. Follow him on Twitter: @pohl_jason.