Katie Fretland

The Commercial Appeal

A jury on Friday found a Bartlett police officer guilty of two counts of reckless driving, a misdemeanor offense, but not on more serious charges, after a fatal car accident at a major intersection in Bartlett.

Lucas Hines, 34, was found guilty of reckless driving in the Oct. 12, 2014, crash at Stage Road and Bartlett Boulevard that killed 49-year-old Michelle Sloyan and her friend, 63-year-old Danny Floyd.

Hines had been charged with two counts of vehicular homicide, but the jury also considered lesser charges. Sentencing is set for Sept. 23.

'While my client is happy with the jury's verdict, this case is extremely sad,' Hines' attorney, Arthur Quinn, said after the verdict was returned. 'We have to remember that two lives were lost.'

According to the Tennessee Highway Patrol, the police officer was speeding, and Floyd failed to yield to oncoming traffic when he tried to make a left turn that afternoon onto Bartlett Boulevard from Stage Road. Assistant District Attorney Billy Bond said the state's evidence is that Hines' traveled up to 83 mph before the crash, did not have emergency lights or sirens activated and was not in pursuit of a fleeing felon.

A witness, Michael Owen, a contractor who was driving in Bartlett, said he saw the crash that killed Floyd and Sloyan, and said it was 'horrific.' Owen said neither lights or sirens were activated on the police car.

In restaurant security footage about 0.3 miles from intersection of the crash, Hines' lights and sirens are on, Quinn said. That would be about 12 to 13 seconds from the intersection at the rate of speed the prosecution said Hines was driving, Quinn said.

The crash followed an encounter Hines had with a blue Volkswagen with a Florida tag that Hines tried to stop for traveling 44 mph in a 30-mph zone near Woodlawn and Old Brownsville. Near a stop sign, Hines stood in front of the car with one hand up and his other hand pointed toward Woodlawn, where he wanted the car to pull over.

'He turned his wheels to my left as if he was about to go that way, but then he accelerated and came toward me instead,' Hines testified Thursday. 'So I threw my hands out in front of me telling him to stop. He kept coming at me. So I had to basically put my hands on the car and push myself away from him.'

The driver of the Volkswagen then fled, according to testimony. Hines said he went to look for the car, thinking that the person in the Volkswagen needed to be stopped to prevent the driver from hurting someone. He could hear over his radio that the driver he was looking for went on to run lights and hit a vehicle.

Jurors began deliberating at about 2 p.m. Friday and returned a verdict about 9:15 p.m.