PAMELA WILLIS, ThisWeek Community News

Reynoldsburg eSTEM Academy's robotics team, Technical Difficulties, is racing the clock toward Stop Build Day Feb. 17, when a robot that is now in pieces should be complete and functional.

Under FIRST Robotics Competition rules, teams have six weeks to build a robot capable of completing complicated tasks.

For the March 25 Buckeye Regional contest in Cleveland, robots must stack plastic totes on top of other totes, then place a large recycling bin on top. The final task is to slip a long pool noodle, or "litter," through a slot on top of the bin, said junior Chris Suitor, leader of the mechanical team with Jordan Green.

The 58 members ofTechnical Difficulties are divided into smaller teams to work on different aspects of the project -- mechanical, programming, marketing, electrical, safety, tactical and fabrication.

Suitor and the mechanical team worked on the main chassis of the robot Monday, Feb. 2, in the robotics lab.

"The front wheel arms will spin and suck in the totes, then a sliding fork system will come down and clamp on to raise the totes on top of each other," Suitor said.

He said seeing their hard work come together for a finished robot is rewarding.

"I also like the teamwork and the hands-on building," he said.

Senior and project leader Maggie Feldman said another aspect of the contest is called "coopertition."

"Our team and an alliance team work together to stack the totes on steps in the middle of the field," she said. "We won't know our alliance teams until the competition starts."

Feldman grew up in robotics: Her two brothers were on the school's 2013 team.

"I like competing and seeing the ideas we come up with actually work," she said.

FIRST stands for "For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology."

Teams begin with a basic FIRST kit to build the robot chassis, then use donated or purchased parts from other robotics companies to finish the robot. The total cost of the robot may not exceed $4,000.

Three eSTEM teachers -- Jim Coley, Amy Stewart and Joe Griffith -- coach theTechnical Difficulties team.

"Robotics is a perfect example of a 21st-century STEM field," Coley said. "It is growing in leaps and bounds and touches all facets of life, from medicine and mass production to fast food and farming."

He said people tend to think of robots in human shapes, as they are shown in the movies.

"Most of the robots today are designed to accomplish one task, like welding in a factory or bomb retrieval in the military," he said. "The various rovers that NASA sends to the moon and Mars are all robots.

"The field is growing fast and requires all types of skills. If we want to lead the world, we need to lead in robotics."

Coley said it is easy to get students started in robotics.

"Robots can be built out of almost anything," he said. "The robots we build for FRC are way more advanced than those we build in class, but the ideas are the same. Robotics requires application of math, science and hands-on skill with tools. It's amazing to see kids use their knowledge for more than standardized tests."

Senior and programming lead Anthony Cavallero said his team looks at how the robot functions.

"We're the brain and neurological system, so we write the entire code that determines how the parts have to move," he said. "I like having a real-world application for my programming skills."

Freshman Dylan Davis heads the electrical team, subbing for Kevin Schultz, who is recovering from an illness.

"We wire the robot up to make sure power gets to different components," he said. "I'm learning something that is useful in life -- everyone has to deal with electricity."

Seniors Mekedia Setegne and Jason Dragonette head up marketing.

"We reach out to the community and to sponsors, to spread the message of FIRST and STEM," Setegne said. "We all work well together and are inspired to do greater and more than last year."

"The team is giving me real-world experience to apply to a future career," Dragonette said. "I've also gotten to know everyone and made some really good friends."

Coley said the competition is "about more than just winning."

"Winning is great, but there is an entire culture of mutual assistance that underlies FIRST," he said. "In coopertition, we work hard to win, but at the same time, we work hard to help other teams win, too. If a team we are competing against needs a part and we have it, we give it to them.

"The other idea is 'gracious professionalism.' We cheer for our competition as loudly as we cheer for our own team."

Follow the team's progress at techdiff4085.com.