Brad Zinn

bzinn@newsleader.com

RICHMOND – Following an investigation, Virginia State Police have confirmed that a Waynesboro man who died in October following a traffic stop on Interstate 64 in Augusta County committed suicide by shooting himself in the chest.

State police also said that Dennis G. Hoke Jr., 42, was intoxicated and had a "significant blood-alcohol content" when killed by the self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to Corinne Geller, a spokeswoman for the state police.

Hoke was driving a Ford Windstar minivan the night of Oct. 16 when pulled over by a Virginia State Police trooper near mile marker 89 on I-64, between Staunton and Fishersville.

Geller said "the reckless nature of Hoke's driving" prompted the traffic stop.

As the trooper, A.J. Garasimowicz, approached Hoke's vehicle, a screaming 8-year-old girl jumped out of the minivan. The trooper ran to her aid and brought her back to his patrol car.

Moments later, Hoke fired his handgun and Garasimowicz returned fire three times, state police said.

Neither the trooper nor child was injured.

An autopsy report from the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in Roanoke concluded that Hoke's death was a suicide caused by a single "gunshot wound of chest with exit." The agency said under state law it is not authorized to release Hoke's BAC at the time of his death.

Earlier findings

A preliminary finding by state police in October initially determined that Hoke most likely shot himself.

At a press conference on the night of the shooting, state police said the girl was related to Hoke.

Court documents show Hoke had an 8-year-old daughter at the time of his death. Those same court documents, found in Waynesboro Juvenile & Domestic Relations Court, also reveal that in 2008 police arrested Hoke and charged him with misdemeanor domestic assault after his wife accused him of pushing her into a bathtub, resulting in multiple bruises to her back.

His wife, who obtained a personal protective order, also accused Hoke of threatening to kill her and harm her two children.

The couple married in 2006.

Hoke pleaded not guilty to the assault charge, which was eventually dismissed.

Also in 2008, a Waynesboro judge convicted Hoke of driving while intoxicated, court records show.