On October 13, 2014 at approximately 2:56 am., Atascosa County Deputy Daniel Kaufman was on patrol traveling down Adams Street in Pleasanton, TX, and attempted to stop a truck that failed to signal an appropriate distance before turning. The vehicle evaded from Deputy Kaufman and after a short pursuit that went down two different streets the vehicle made a turn into a residence at 219 Hollingsworth Road and pulled under a carport/overhand and stopped.

Deputy Kaufman pulled up the driveway. At this time the driver, later identified as Macario Garcia, DOB 04/16/60, was already out of the vehicle and walking toward the rear of his vehicle. Deputy Kaufman observed Macario Garcia grabbing for something under his waist area. Deputy Kaufman was not sure if Macario Garcia had a weapon or if he was attempting to hide something. Deputy Kaufman was in fear that Macario Garcia was going to attempt to use a weapon on him. Deputy Kaufman was not able to finish his radio traffic to dispatch because he was in a hurry to exit his vehicle. Deputy Kaufman pulled his pistol but did not point it at Macario Garcia. Macario Garcia was taller and outweighed Deputy Kaufman by over 100 pounds. Macario Garcia then lifted his hands out of his waist area and Deputy Kaufman re-holstered his pistol.

When Deputy Kaufman got close to Macario Garcia, he started walking towards the door of the trailer house. Deputy Kaufman yelled at Macario Garcia to come to him. Deputy Kaufman asked Macario Garcia why he didn't stop and told him to come with the deputy. Macario Garcia immediately became irate and wouldn't listen to Deputy Kaufman's instructions or questions. Because of Deputy Kaufman's experience and training, it appeared that Macario Garcia was intoxicated or may have ingested an unknown substance. Macario Garcia's movements were slow and he was swaying back and forth.

Deputy Kaufman attempted to grab Macario Garcia by his arm and take him to the front of his vehicle so he could complete an arrest on Garcia for evading arrest. When Deputy Kaufman grabbed Macario Garcia, he started to push and pull with his body attempting to get the Deputy away from him. Deputy Kaufman pushed Macario Garcia against the vehicle then he pushed himself off the vehicle and attempted to turn around on Deputy Kaufman. Deputy Kaufman continued to tell Macario Garcia to turn around.

Macario Garcia swung with his left arm at Deputy Kaufman's head. The Deputy was about to move back while still holding onto his right upper arm. Deputy Kaufman let go of Macario Garcia's arm and pulled back, pulling out his department issued Taser. Macario Garcia then got into a combative stance with his hands in a fist then Macario Garcia faced Deputy Kaufman and made a motion that he was going to lunge at the Deputy.

Deputy Kaufman deployed his Taser on Macario Garcia with a set of probes on the chest and stomach of his body. When the probes hit Macario Garcia they looked like they were stuck on his shirt and did not properly deploy. Deputy Kaufman did not get complete neuromuscular incapacitation on Macario Garcia when the Taser deployed. Macario Garcia was still feeling some of the effects of the Taser, but not the full effects. Macario Garcia fell to his knees to the rear of the vehicle. Deputy Kaufman pressed the side trigger for another deployment for a second time for approximately 2 seconds when Macario Garcia failed to comply with the Deputy's instructions and attempted to get back up. While this was going on Macario Garcia continued to yell and be combative towards Deputy Kaufman by swinging his arms.

Deputy Kaufman continued to tell Macario Garcia to get to the ground but he wouldn't. While Deputy Kaufman was attempting to gain control of Macario Garcia, Deputy Kaufman yelled at Macario Garcia to get on his stomach and spread his arms and legs and re-holstered his Taser. Deputy Kaufman helped Macario Garcia up to his feet. Macario Garcia walked to Deputy Kaufman's patrol vehicle under his own power. About midway to the front of the Deputy's vehicle Macario Garcia started to push the Deputy to the side, attempting to knock him off balance and push him into a gate.

While Deputy Kaufman was searching Macario Garcia for weapons the Deputy noticed that Garcia had urinated on himself. Deputy Kaufman pulled the Taser probes from Garcia's shirt. The probes were not attached to the body, they were only attached to the shirt. While Deputy Kaufman was searching Macario Garcia he was coherent and alert. While the Deputy was interviewing Macario Garcia he started shaking and his legs gave out before he could answer.

Macario Garcia started to make snoring noises. Deputy Kaufman immediately radioed dispatch and requested EMS. Macario Garcia started breathing normally and moved his head up and it seemed like he was coming out of it. After contacting dispatch again, Macario Garcia started shaking again and he took a deep breath and then stopped. Deputy Kaufman could only feel him breathing softly and his pulse was weak. Deputy Kaufman attempted to sit up Macario Garcia to help with his breathing. EMS arrived on scene. We placed Macario Garcia on his side again. EMS immediately started to work on Macario Garcia. Garcia was transported by EMS to the hospital where he died.