Justin L. Mack and Kristine Guerra

The three men were traveling from Chicago to Tennessee. The plan was to stop in Indianapolis to visit a cousin.

Talk turned to robbing a GameStop, court documents say.

But the robbery at the video game retailer failed, with two of the suspects under arrest and the third fatally shot by Indianapolis police after authorities say he refused orders to drop his weapon and pointed it at officers.

The weapon was a Smith and Wesson pellet handgun.

Robbing the Southside store was a stupid idea, one of the suspects, 23-year-old Walter Fells III, later told police, documents say.

Here is how the events unfolded:

Police responded about 9:15 p.m. Saturday to a report of suspicious activity in the shopping center at the 3700 block of South East Street.

As officers arrived, they saw Terrell Lucas, 22, Chicago, and two other men in masks holding store employees at gunpoint inside the GameStop, 3778 S. East St., police said.

The officer who was first on the scene tried to open the door, but it was locked. Two men wearing masks were inside, according to a probable cause affidavit. Other officers then surrounded the business.

One of the men, later identified as Jalil Hannah, 21, ran to the front door toward the officers. Hannah followed police orders to get on the ground and drop his weapon, documents said.

A second suspect, later identified as Fells, went outside through the back door and ran toward the officers who were outside the front door, documents said. Fells tried to run but then decided to surrender.

Police said Lucas fled and attempted to exit the rear of the business but came in contact with Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department officers. He refused to drop his weapon and pointed it at the officers.

The officers immediately fired their weapons at Lucas, striking him in the upper torso, police said. No officers were struck or injured, and none of the employees were hurt.

After the shooting, Lucas was transported to Eskenazi Hospital, where he later died, police said. Jannah and Wells, both of Chicago, were taken into custody.

Hannah told police that the three of them came from Chicago and decided to rob the GameStop, according to documents. Wells said they were on their way to Tennessee and stopped by Indianapolis to visit Hannah’s cousin. He told police that robbing the store was a “stupid idea,” according to documents.

Hannah and Lucas both used pellet pistols, the documents said. The weapon found near Lucas was described in court documents as a “realistic looking pistol.”

Hannah and Fells have been formally charged by the Marion County prosecutor’s office with felony murder, robbery and criminal confinement. They are being held in the Marion County Jail without bond.

Under Indiana law, a person can be charged with murder if someone is killed during the commission of another felony offense.

Police said the names of the involved officers are not being released at this time. As is standard procedure in police shootings, the officers involved have been placed on administrative duty pending the outcome of the investigation, police said.

Employees at the store declined to comment.

Saturday night’s incident is the seventh reported armed robbery at an area GameStop within the past year.

IMPD Lt. Chris Bailey said while it is difficult to say exactly why GameStop has become a popular target for some thieves, the popularity of gaming and the price of the goods may be the motivation.

“Video game consoles like Xbox One and Playstation 4 are very expensive systems that can be sold on the street for a lot less than they are worth,” he said. “With the holiday season coming up, people are looking for ways to make money.”

Bailey credited the public for getting police to the store in time. He said officers were summoned to the scene by a resident who saw something suspicious.

Bailey asked that residents continue to reach out to the police as the holiday season approaches and retail crime becomes more of an issue.

“The public was doing exactly what we need them to do, which is get involved,” Bailey said. “If you see suspicious behavior, no matter how small it is, it may help us solve a crime or stop a crime from happening.”

Call Star reporter Justin L. Mack at (317) 444-6138. Follow him on Twitter: @justinlmack.