A preliminary autopsy report shows that Julian Magdaleno, 29, who was killed by Bellmead police officers early Monday morning, died of multiple gunshot wounds.

Justice of the Peace W.H. “Pete” Peterson said Magdaleno’s death was ruled a homicide in the report and that a grand jury will later decide whether the death was justifiable.

A witness said he heard four shots fired, but Peterson said details, including the number of gunshot wounds, would not be available until the final results return.

Magdaleno was suspected of burglarizing a residence in the Eagle Crest Apartments while wearing a Halloween mask and wielding a butcher knife, Texas Department of Public Safety Trooper D.L. Wilson said.

Bellmead police officers responded to the burglary call just after 2 a.m. and chased Magdaleno from 4200 Sames Drive to the 1100 block of Dossett Street, Chief Lydia Alvarado said.

Officers reportedly shot him with a stun gun, but he broke free. One of the three officers chasing Magdaleno approached him, and he turned and started slashing at the officer with a knife, Alvarado said. Officers opened fire and killed him.

Magdaleno’s family was notified of his death after police located them through the Hidalgo County Sheriff’s Office.

Wilson said Monday he did not know exactly what kind of Halloween mask Magdaleno allegedly wore.

Alvarado did not disclose how many of the three officers fired their weapons, and she would not release their names.

The Texas Rangers are investigating the shooting.

Wilson said Magdaleno was living in a halfway house in Waco until recently, when he was charged with a new crime and removed.

Magdaleno was booked in to the McLennan County Jail on Sept. 19 on a theft charge and was released Oct. 3 on a $1,000 bond, jail records show.

Magdaleno served out prison sentences for robbery, retaliation, two counts of assault against a public servant, possession of a controlled substance and evading arrest with a vehicle, Texas Department of Criminal Justice records show.