Matthew Casey, and Katie Bieri

A 43-year-old man shot by Avondale police Thursday morning after they said he refused to drop a machete and a pocket knife has died, Glendale Police have confirmed.

Glendale police identified the man as Jeremy Bustos, Sgt. Jay O'Neill, a department spokesman, said.

Bustos was one of two people rushed to the hospital Thursday morning after Avondale police said he stole assaulted a city employee and stole their truck.

Bustos reportedly took the truck on a joyride as police pursued before officers got a helicopter to track the stolen vehicle and backed off, the spokesman said.

Police put down spikes to stop the truck and the Bustos drove through them, but continued driving until he T-boned an Avondale police vehicle driving near 111th Avenue and Durango Street, the spokesman said.

Bustos emerged from the stolen truck carrying a machete and a small pocket knife and officers shot him when he refused to obey their commands, the spokesman said.

The officer had to be extricated from his vehicle, said Steve Ellsworth, a spokesman for the Avondale Fire Department.

Bustos suffered two bullet wounds, Ellsworth said.

The officer was flown to St. Joseph Hospital and Medical Center in critical condition and Bustos was taken to a trauma center in the West Valley .

Three schools in the Littleton School District remained on lockdown while police worked to get Bustos in custody, Superintendent Dr. Roger Freeman confirmed. Students were able to maintain a relatively normal class schedule with greater security restrictions on their campus.

Quentin Elementary School was only blocks away from where the shooting took place. That school, along with Estrella Vista Elementary School and Littleton Elementary School, remained on lockdown and campus alert for about an hour, Freeman said.

In an email, school administrators announced that they will drive all students who live north of Durango Street on a school bus to 111th Avenue and Mohave Street at 3:40 p.m. to avoid their normal exit. That location, on 111th Avenue and Durango Street, is closed because of the investigation.

Parents can choose to pick students up from there or allow them to walk home on their own. If parents wants to pick students up directly from school, they must do so before 3 p.m, according to administrators.

Freeman was confident in his schools' preparedness during the emergency.

"We practice these procedures multiple times during the year," Freeman said. "We take the safety of our students very seriously. That's why we have these drills. It also allows us to continue with our instructional day more or less interrupted."