The Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office on Friday said no criminal charges will be filed in the October killing of Richard Scheuermann III by an Easton police officer.

"A thorough and impartial review is of the utmost importance any time an officer uses deadly force, and investigators and attorneys from the (Pennsylvania) State Police and from my office engaged in that type of exhaustive review in this instance," Attorney General Kathleen Kane said in a news release.

"Multiple video and audio recordings provided a clear and unbiased account of what took place that night, and those recordings substantiated witness statements that Mr. Scheuermann's actions caused law enforcement officers to believe that lives were in danger. Though the use of deadly force is regrettable in any circumstance, it was justifiable and in accordance with Pennsylvania law in this matter."

RELATED: Easton police identify officer who fatally shot Richard Scheuermann III

Scheuermann was shot and killed early in the morning of Oct. 24 after leading police on a chase through several municipalities. He eventually crashed his red pickup truck at 13th and Spring Garden streets in Easton, backing up the vehicle several times into a police cruiser.

A police officer from Easton and another from Palmer Township fired their weapons after the crash, but District Attorney John Morganelli revealed in December that the Palmer officer was firing at the tires of the truck. A Taser was also deployed, authorities have said.

Richard Scheuermann III

"Scheuermann ignored repeated orders from police to exit the truck, and instead intentionally and repeatedly rammed a police vehicle with the truck, which then became partially lodged on the utility pole," the news release said. "Fearing for his safety and that of others, the Easton officer fired his weapon at Scheuermann, who remained inside the truck, striking Scheuermann twice. Even then, Scheuermann continued to ignore commands from police before stabbing himself in the neck with a pocket knife, which he had retrieved from a bag located in the truck."

The gunshot wounds led to the Wilson Borough man's death, according to Northampton County Coroner Zachary Lysek. Scheuermann had apparent gunshot wounds along his jaw and on his torso.

Scheuermann slit his throat, and while that could have killed him, Lysek ruled the gunshot caused the death. Lysek labeled the death a homicide, Morganelli said.

Morganelli in December turned over the Pennsylvania State Police investigation as well as Lysek's findings to Kane.

When asked Friday about the decision, Morganelli said, "That case is no longer our case, so I don't have anything to say about it."

A family spokesman said any statement from the family would be coming from attorney Joshua Karoly. Efforts to reach Karoly were not immediately successful.

Shortly after the announcement from Kane, Easton police identified the officer involved as Sgt. Dominick Marraccini.

The attorney general's office on Friday quotes the Pennsylvania Crimes Codes in saying police can use deadly force "when an officer reasonably believes that there is a substantial risk that a person the officer seeks to prevent from committing a crime will cause death or serious bodily injury to another unless that person is stopped."

Staff writers Tom Shortell and Sarah M. Wojcik contributed to this report.