Eric Woomer

ewoomer@visaliatimesdelta.com

The California Highway Patrol is searching for the driver of a car that struck a teenage boy who was running on Highway 99 trying to evade capture by Bakersfield police.

The teenager, Abel Andrade, 15, was struck in the area of Avenue 80 and Highway 99 on Sunday night. CHP officials say a person driving a white sedan hit Andrade when the teenager tried to cross the freeway.

The driver didn’t stop and now police are asking anyone with information to contact CHP officers, who say they plan on seeking felony hit-and-run and vehicular manslaughter charges.

“We know it’s a needle in a haystack kind of situation, but we are hoping there’s a driver who saw the car and can point us in that direction,” Officer Scott Harris said.

Had the driver stopped, Harris said, he or she would likely not have faced any charges. Harris says Andrade and a group of teenagers were running from police when the incident occurred. Bakersfield police officers tried to stop the car Andrade was in after it was reported stolen out of Earlimart. The driver fled from police and headed back into Tulare County.

Shortly after leaving Kern County, CHP officers from the Visalia division took over the pursuit and followed the Honda to Avenue 80, just east of Highway 99. Harris said there were five people in the car, including two juvenile females. There was only one adult, a 19-year-old, in the Honda.

The road where Avenue 80 approaches Highway 99 makes a Y-shape, where Harris said the Honda’s driver failed to negotiate the turn and crashed into the fence separating the highway from Avenue 80. That’s when Andrade fled the car and tried to head across the freeway in Pixley, but was struck.

A female was also nearly hit by a big rig, but the truck driver managed to avoid the teenage girl.

Andrade was rushed from the scene but died on the way to the hospital, according to the CHP.

“Realistically, the person [who] hit this kid didn’t do anything wrong initially. But, now that they ran, they’re looking at felony charges,” Harris said.

Anyone with information is asked to call the CHP at 734-6767.