He was zapped with a stun gun 10 times in a matter of minutes — and then he was dead.

An unarmed Daniel Tyson was stunned with a Taser over and over again by a Hollywood police officer until his nude body fell limp. Tyson, 30, was stunned a total of 10 times in the 2014 incident — four while his hands were cuffed and his legs shackled as he lay face down on the ground, said Joe Kalbac, an attorney for Tyson’s family.

On Wednesday, commissioners approved a $750,000 payout to settle an excessive force lawsuit filed by Tyson’s mother, Jean Suarez, of Miami. The city’s insurance will cover all but $175,000 of the payment.

“My family has suffered tremendously over the last four years as a result of the tragic death of my son, Daniel Tyson,” Suarez said. “I firmly believe my son’s death could’ve been prevented had these police officers been trained properly in dealing with people suffering from a mental illness and disability. I hope that bringing this lawsuit effectuates change within every police department so this type of tragedy never occurs again to anyone’s son.”

Police Chief Christopher O’Brien declined to comment Wednesday, citing a citywide policy.

Two officers used stun guns on Tyson that day: Alexis Ramirez and Andreas Pantaloukas.

Both were rookies at the time, said Stephanie Casey, an attorney for the family.

Up to six officers were on scene at the time of death, Casey said. The officers were not disciplined by the Hollywood Police Department and a grand jury found their use of deadly force was justifiable under state law.

“One tasing lasted nine seconds,” Casey said. “The manufacturer recommends a maximum of five seconds.”

Tyson, a 2001 graduate of Miami’s New World School of the Arts, suffered from mental illness, his attorneys say. Doctors diagnosed Tyson with schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type.

His run-in with police occurred on Oct. 27, 2014, less than two weeks after he moved into an upstairs apartment on Jackson Street.

Tyson’s landlord called police after Tyson walked onto his balcony naked, talking to the air and a tree.

Ramirez, the first officer to arrive, told Tyson he couldn’t walk around nude in public. Tyson charged the officer and threw a sundial at his head. Ramirez, who needed six staples to close the gash, stunned Tyson once.

Later, Pantaloukas used his stun gun nine times, say the attorneys who handled the lawsuit.

Yet the exact cause of death remains a mystery, Kalbac said.

“An autopsy [by the Broward Medical Examiner] ruled the cause of death undetermined,” Kalbac said. “No alcohol or drugs contributed to the death. He either died of a heart attack or he suffocated. Four or five officers were on top of him and all of a sudden they realized he was no longer breathing.”

Hollywood officers Brian Kerns, Kyle Karl, Alejandro Falcon and Anthony Truntz were also present at the time of Tyson’s death.

They, along with Ramirez, still work for the agency.

Pantaloukas has since resigned and now works for the Jupiter Police Department.

.ss-blurb-fblike{

padding-left:10px;

}

.ss-blurb-fblike-heading {

font-family: Georgia, Times New Roman, serif;

font-weight: bold;

}