Carlos Andres López

Las Cruces Sun-News

Santa Fe County Deputy Tai Chan shot and killed fellow deputy Jeremy Martin just after midnight on Oct. 28, 2014, inside Hotel Encanto in Las Cruces. Chan claims he shot Martin in self-defense. Chan's first murder trial was declared a mistrial. The retrial begins Monday. How did we get here?

The night deputy Martin died

Oct. 27, 2014

Between 5 and 6 a.m.: Deputies Tai Chan and Jeremy Martin left Santa Fe to transport a prisoner to Safford, Ariz.

Deputies Tai Chan and Jeremy Martin left Santa Fe to transport a prisoner to Safford, Ariz. Noon: Chan and Martin arrived in Safford, Ariz.; they dropped off the prisoner and decided to drive to Las Cruces.

Chan and Martin arrived in Safford, Ariz.; they dropped off the prisoner and decided to drive to Las Cruces. Between 2 and 3 p.m.: Chan and Martin checked into the Hotel Encanto in Las Cruces; they shared a room on the seventh floor.

Chan and Martin checked into the Hotel Encanto in Las Cruces; they shared a room on the seventh floor. Early evening: Chan and Martin had drinks at three establishments, including the bar inside the hotel.

Chan and Martin had drinks at three establishments, including the bar inside the hotel. Around 9 p.m.: Chan and Martin arrived at Dublin’s Street Pub on University Avenue; they were at the bar with two of Chan’s acquaintances, including Josh Sexauer.

Chan and Martin arrived at Dublin’s Street Pub on University Avenue; they were at the bar with two of Chan’s acquaintances, including Josh Sexauer. Around 10 p.m.: Chan and Martin were spotted arguing at Dublin’s Street Pub. Chan testified that the argument was related to a double-homicide earlier that month in Santa Fe County. Martin was one of the first deputies to respond to the scene of the murder, according to Chan. At Dublin’s, Chan said he jokingly told Martin: “Well, you killed them. You didn't get there in time.”

Chan and Martin were spotted arguing at Dublin’s Street Pub. Chan testified that the argument was related to a double-homicide earlier that month in Santa Fe County. Martin was one of the first deputies to respond to the scene of the murder, according to Chan. At Dublin’s, Chan said he jokingly told Martin: “Well, you killed them. You didn't get there in time.” After 11 p.m.: Chan and Martin were driven back to the hotel by one of Chan’s cousins. Chan testified that once they got into their room, Martin began to argue about the double-homicide. Chan claimed that’s when Martin told him that he was going to frame Chan for murder. Chan said he then left the room after Martin went into the bathroom.

Chan and Martin were driven back to the hotel by one of Chan’s cousins. Chan testified that once they got into their room, Martin began to argue about the double-homicide. Chan claimed that’s when Martin told him that he was going to frame Chan for murder. Chan said he then left the room after Martin went into the bathroom. At 11:56 p.m.: Chan called his then-girlfriend, Leah Tafoya, telling her that he’s being framed for murder. Tafoya testified that Chan sounded “incoherent” during the call, which had been disconnected after several minutes. Chan testified that Martin found him outside the hotel, and the two walked back to the hotel.

Oct. 28, 2014

12:13 a.m.: Chan answered a call from Tafoya after she tried calling him for several minutes. She never spoke directly with Chan but overheard him taking with an “unidentified male.” She heard the men arguing, followed by two gunshots.While testifying, Chan said he locked himself in the bathroom when he and Martin got back to their room. He said Martin pounded on the door, demanding that he exit. Chan said he exited the bathroom and told Martin to sit down. But that’s when, Chan claimed, that Martin walked toward a desk and retrieved a firearm and threatened to shoot him. The two fought to gain control of the gun, causing a single round to discharge. Chan said he grabbed the gun, went to the ground and began firing at Martin, who ran out the door. Chan followed, firing multiple shots at Martin as he ran down the hallway.

Chan answered a call from Tafoya after she tried calling him for several minutes. She never spoke directly with Chan but overheard him taking with an “unidentified male.” She heard the men arguing, followed by two gunshots.While testifying, Chan said he locked himself in the bathroom when he and Martin got back to their room. He said Martin pounded on the door, demanding that he exit. Chan said he exited the bathroom and told Martin to sit down. But that’s when, Chan claimed, that Martin walked toward a desk and retrieved a firearm and threatened to shoot him. The two fought to gain control of the gun, causing a single round to discharge. Chan said he grabbed the gun, went to the ground and began firing at Martin, who ran out the door. Chan followed, firing multiple shots at Martin as he ran down the hallway. 12:20 a.m.: First police officer dispatched to hotel; officer discovered Martin's bullet-riddled body near an elevator in the hotel lobby.

First police officer dispatched to hotel; officer discovered Martin's bullet-riddled body near an elevator in the hotel lobby. 1:20 a.m.: Martin is pronounced dead at MountainView Regional Medical Center. He had been shot five times.

Martin is pronounced dead at MountainView Regional Medical Center. He had been shot five times. 8:23 a.m.: Chan is booked into the Doña Ana County Detention Center and charged with an open count of murder.

Major events in Tai Chan’s case

Nov. 4, 2014: Doña Ana County grand jury found probable cause to indict Tai Chan on one count of first-degree murder in the shooting death of Jeremy Martin.

Doña Ana County grand jury found probable cause to indict Tai Chan on one count of first-degree murder in the shooting death of Jeremy Martin. Nov. 17, 2014: Chan pleaded not guilty to the murder charge during his arraignment.

Chan pleaded not guilty to the murder charge during his arraignment. Nov. 17, 2014: Chan was released from the Doña Ana County Detention Center at 6:31 p.m. after posting a $600,000 secured bond.

Chan was released from the Doña Ana County Detention Center at 6:31 p.m. after posting a $600,000 secured bond. Jan. 23, 2015: Judge allowed Chan to reside in Santa Fe County under house arrest.

Judge allowed Chan to reside in Santa Fe County under house arrest. Feb. 9, 2015: Chan’s attorneys filed a motion to compel the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office to release Martin’s personnel records, including results from a psychological evaluation. The motion was denied April 2014.

Chan’s attorneys filed a motion to compel the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office to release Martin’s personnel records, including results from a psychological evaluation. The motion was denied April 2014. April 2, 2015: Chan’s attorney filed supplemental exhibits in support of the motion to compel. The exhibits included photos of a blood-stained sheet taken from the deputies’ hotel room after the shooting. Chan’s attorney also alleged that Martin was “initial aggressor” in the fight.

Chan’s attorney filed supplemental exhibits in support of the motion to compel. The exhibits included photos of a blood-stained sheet taken from the deputies’ hotel room after the shooting. Chan’s attorney also alleged that Martin was “initial aggressor” in the fight. May 23, 2016: Chan’s trial began in 3rd Judicial District Court in Las Cruces.

Chan’s trial began in 3rd Judicial District Court in Las Cruces. May 31, 2016: Prosecutors and defense attorneys discovered that the blood-stained sheet had never been tested for DNA. It was sent for testing during trial and came back positive for Chan’s blood.

Prosecutors and defense attorneys discovered that the blood-stained sheet had never been tested for DNA. It was sent for testing during trial and came back positive for Chan’s blood. June 3, 2016: Chan testified for nearly four hours on the ninth day of the trial; it was his first time speaking publicly about the shooting.

Chan testified for nearly four hours on the ninth day of the trial; it was his first time speaking publicly about the shooting. June 6, 2016: Jurors began deliberations around noon after hearing closing arguments; no verdict is reached by 8 p.m.

Jurors began deliberations around noon after hearing closing arguments; no verdict is reached by 8 p.m. June 7, 2016: Jurors resumed deliberations at 8 a.m. Shortly before 3 p.m., the jury foreman announced that jurors were deadlocked and would be unable to arrive at a unanimous verdict. The judge then declared a mistrial.

Jurors resumed deliberations at 8 a.m. Shortly before 3 p.m., the jury foreman announced that jurors were deadlocked and would be unable to arrive at a unanimous verdict. The judge then declared a mistrial. Sept. 10, 2016: Prosecutors filed their intent to retry Chan.

Prosecutors filed their intent to retry Chan. March 31, 2017: Chan’s attorneys filed motion seeking, among other things, to re-interview the lead detective in the case, Irma Palos of the Las Cruces Police Department. Palos alleged in a lawsuit that she was retaliated against and denied resources to investigate Chan's case.

Chan’s attorneys filed motion seeking, among other things, to re-interview the lead detective in the case, Irma Palos of the Las Cruces Police Department. Palos alleged in a lawsuit that she was retaliated against and denied resources to investigate Chan's case. April 4, 2017: District Attorney Mark D’Antonio sent a letter to LCPD Chief Jaime Montoya, assailing Montoya for not informing him about Palos’ lawsuit, which he wrote contained “potentially case-altering information.” D’Antonio, Palos and Montoya were added to defense’s witness list.

District Attorney Mark D’Antonio sent a letter to LCPD Chief Jaime Montoya, assailing Montoya for not informing him about Palos’ lawsuit, which he wrote contained “potentially case-altering information.” D’Antonio, Palos and Montoya were added to defense’s witness list. April 12, 2017: Chan’s attorneys filed motions to disqualify D’Antonio from prosecuting the case, and to dismiss the murder charge over allegations of “outrageous government conduct.” The motions were later denied.

Chan’s attorneys filed motions to disqualify D’Antonio from prosecuting the case, and to dismiss the murder charge over allegations of “outrageous government conduct.” The motions were later denied. April 14, 2017: Chan’s attorneys sent a letter to U.S. Attorney’s Office asking the Department of Justice to investigate LCPD for police corruption, obstruction of justice and conspiracy.

Chan’s attorneys sent a letter to U.S. Attorney’s Office asking the Department of Justice to investigate LCPD for police corruption, obstruction of justice and conspiracy. April 28, 2017: Chan appeared in court for his final hearing before the retrial.

Chan appeared in court for his final hearing before the retrial. May 8, 2017: Chan’s retrial was scheduled to begin in 3rd Judicial District Court in Las Cruces. It was scheduled to last 10 days.

RELATED TAI CHAN NEWS:

Judge rejects Chan's motion to drop case

Chan motion suggests slain deputy had 'alter ego'

In motions, Chan questions credibility of investigation, officers

Detective in Chan case alleges she was 'denied resources'