Katie Bieri

The Republic | azcentral.com

Sheriff%27s deputies are investigating a shooting Tuesday morning involving a detention officer east of downtown Phoenix.

Authorities are investigating the fatal shooting of a Maricopa County inmate who officials say escaped, albeit briefly, from sheriff's custody on the way to a medical appointment Tuesday morning.

Inmate Angel Frescas, 22, died hours after being shot in the head by a Maricopa County detention officer, according to the Sheriff's Office.

It was the second time in three weeks that an inmate fled sheriff's custody outside of Maricopa Medical Center. In the the first instance, the inmate was caught in west Phoenix after stealing a vehicle, officials said.

Maricopa County sheriff's deputies and Phoenix police detectives were investigating the shooting Tuesday.

Sheriff's deputies said detention officers were taking Frescas and two other inmates to Maricopa Medical Center near 24th and Roosevelt streets. Frescas managed to slip out of two restraints and run eastbound on Roosevelt Street, said Deputy Joaquin Enriquez, a sheriff's spokesman.

One of the detention officers secured the other two inmates, and the second detention officer hopped back in the van and took off after Frescas, Enriquez said. Another deputy was called for backup, and the hospital was placed on a brief lockdown.

The officer caught up with Frescas about 500 yards away from the hospital, exited the van and a struggle ensued over the officer's weapon, Enriquez said.

Investigators say Frescas held the gun at one point, but it was unclear whether Frescas was able to fire the weapon, Enriquez said.

As the detention officer and Frescas struggled over the weapon in the middle of Roosevelt Street, the fight took them into the front cab of the transport van, Enriquez said.

By then, a detention officer had run to the scene from the hospital, Enriquez said, and she fired through the windshield into the van's cab, striking Frescas at least once.

Investigators believe Frescas had planned his escape in advance, Enriquez said.

Frescas had been on trial for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon in September and had pleaded guilty to child-abuse charges in February 2013, according to court documents.

Mahamoud Hassan, a resident of a nearby apartment, was watching television when the shooting occurred.

He heard one shot at first and three immediately after.

"I came outside ... and everybody stopped," Hassan said.

Hassan could not tell how many people were involved.

Hundreds of inmates are transported to the Maricopa Medical Center every day, Enriquez said, adding that the Sheriff's Office will look at ways it can improve handling and transporting inmates.