Staff reports

The suspect in a domestic assault Friday night went into medical distress while struggling with officers and died at the hospital, according to the Salinas Police Department.

Officers responded at approximately 10 p.m. on the 400 block of N. Madeira Ave., to the report of a man assaulting his wife with a knife and screwdriver. According to the reporting parties, after being attacked by the suspect, they had to leave the home in fear of their safety and to call for help. It was also reported the man had a history of cocaine abuse and was under the influence.

When officers arrived, they contacted Jaime Garcia, 35, who became combative. During the struggle, one officer used his Taser on Garcia who continued to resist. It became apparent to officers Garcia was going into medical distress and paramedics, who were staged nearby, were summoned.

Garcia was taken to a local hospital with CPR in progress but was pronounced dead at the hospital. An autopsy is scheduled to determine his cause of death.

Two officers sustained minor injuries during the struggle.

This is the fifth officer-involved death in Salinas this year.

As is routine, the five responding officers who were involved in trying to subdue Garcia were put on routine administrative leave during the initial stages of the investigation.

Four officer-involved shootings resulting in deaths have occurred in Salinas in 2014.

March 21: Angel Ruiz, 42, an armed suspect, was shot in the parking lot of 1488 Constitution Blvd.

May 10: Osman Hernandez, 26, a man with a knife, was shot in the parking lot 880 E. Alisal St.

May 20: Carlos Mejia, 44, a man with shears, was shot at Sanborn and Del Monte avenues.

July 10: Frank Alvarado was shot at Fairview Avenue and Beverly Drive.

—Rachel Zentz

Editor's Note: The print version of this story, published today, incorrectly referred to this incident as an officer-involved shooting and ran under an inaccurate headline. Cause of death has not been established.