ANAHEIM (CBSLA.com) — A 29-year-old Orange County murder suspect died late Monday in a single-vehicle crash after a pursuit, officials said.

Santa Ana police officers were in pursuit of a white Chevrolet Tahoe when it plowed into a retaining wall and caught fire just before 9:30 p.m. on Rio Vista Street near the 91 Freeway in Anaheim.

Investigators believe the driver intentionally drove into the wall as the vehicle was accelerated and the driver failed to brake immediately prior to the impact.

The chase began in Santa Ana, where officers were told to be on the lookout for a vehicle related to a death investigation.

Hours earlier, police received a frantic call regarding a 55-year-old woman who had been shot at a home in the 18400 block of Warren Avenue in Tustin, the Orange County Sheriff's Department said. Lahoma Ballester, who was hospitalized before she died, knew the suspect.

Lahoma Ballester (credit: DMV)

"Investigators are continuing to interview witnesses in attempt to establish what led to the shooting and identify the relationship between the two deceased subjects," the sheriff's department said.

Detectives have recovered a handgun, believed to have been used in the homicide, from a residence in Anaheim.

The identity of the suspect has not been officially released; however, investigators say the suspect had a previous relationship and child in common with Ballester's daughter.

A man identifying himself as the suspect's uncle spoke to KCAL9's Stacey Butler, and said he believes the investigation will lead to his nephew, Tyrell Singletary.

Court records show Singletary had a long criminal history, including domestic violence against a child.

Maria Carlos, who lived next door to Singletary, did not wish to speak on camera but said she filed a restraining order against Singletary when their daughter was born.

She also said he battled depression and possibly bipolar disorder and was unaware he had a child with Ballester's daughter.

The coroner is awaiting dental records to officially identify the suspect.

Anyone with information should contact the OCSD at (714) 647-7000.

(©2014 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Wire services contributed to this report.)