AKRON, Ohio — The man an Akron police officer shot to death Monday fired a gun during his interaction with police, Akron Police Lt. Rick Edwards said.

The officer told a 9-1-1 dispatcher that a man later identified as Raupheal Thomas fired a shot and that officers shot Thomas, according to a copy of a 9-1-1 call obtained by the Northeast Ohio Media Group.

9-1-1 call

The initial call to 9-1-1 came from an off-duty police officer, police said. The off-duty officer told a dispatcher that two suspicious men were walking on Orrin Street near Roslyn Avenue.

Police have not released the identity of the on-duty officer who shot Thomas. He has since been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation.

Edwards said that investigators found gun and a bullet casing next to Thomas. It's believed that the gun belonged to Thomas. Investigators are still trying to piece together the events that led to the fatal shooting, including who fired the first shot.

The off-duty officer told the 9-1-1 dispatcher that he saw the two men near a white sport utility vehicle with a flat tire near the side of the road earlier in the night but no longer saw the SUV.

The off-duty officer said the two men were walking near someone's driveway.

"I don't know if they're casing houses or what," the officer says.

Akron police previously said two on-duty officers responded about 5:15 p.m. Thomas became "very confrontational" with the two on-duty officers, police said.

9-1-1 call

Thomas, 29, was shot in the torso. He died about 40 minutes later at Akron General Medical Center. Thomas' death was ruled a homicide by the Summit County Medical Examiner.

The officers tried to arrest Thomas and fight ensued. The 15-year police veteran shot Thomas during the fight, according to police.

The officer who shot Thomas told the 9-1-1 dispatcher that Thomas fired a shot, that they recovered his gun and that Thomas was injured. A man screaming can be heard in the background.

The person walking with Thomas was interviewed and released, according to police.