No charges will be filed against a Blount County sheriff's deputy who fatally shot a 24-year-old man in November.

A grand jury this week reviewed the deadly shooting and cleared the deputy of any wrongdoing the in the Nov. 3, 2014 death of Caleb Joseph Ryan, said Blount County District Attorney Pamela Casey. The shooting happened about 2:30 a.m. that Monday on Martin Road in Blountsville. Ryan was pronounced dead on the scene.

Sheriff Loyd Arrington has said the deputy responded to a domestic call and burglary at the Martin Road home. Ryan ran and the deputy pursued him. A fight erupted, and Ryan was shot in a nearby field.

The 30-year-old deputy was injured during the fight, and transported to Cullman Regional Medical Center. The deputy, a three-year veteran of the force, was placed on administrative leave pending the ongoing investigation but is now expected to return to duty. His name hasn't been released.

Casey said today the investigation showed that the deputy used alternative methods to try to subdue Ryan prior to firing his weapon after an altercation occurred. During that time, Ryan was choking the officer to the point he was about to pass out and was attempt to gouge out the deputy's right eye.

"Ryan reached for and attempted to take the officer's taser and firearm during the altercation,'' Casey said. Toxicology reports showed that Ryan had a blood alcohol level of .132 and had a controlled substance in his system.

Court records show Ryan was arrested in Etowah County in January on charges of resisting arrest, obstructing government operations and domestic violence. He was given the option of a pre-trial diversion program instead of jail time, but records indicate he violated the rules of being part of that program.

According to a progress report filed in the case, Ryan was deemed in non-compliance when in July he refused to submit to a drug screening test. Records also show Ryan was convicted of a DUI in 2012,and of assault in 2009. In the 2009 case, records say Ryan slapped a glass out of his father's hand, tackled him to the ground and tried to choke him.

At the time of his death, Ryan also was facing a second-degree felony assault charge in which he was accused of hitting another man in the back of the head with a steel instrument.