Lake County State's Attorney Mark Nerheim has found that the Highland Park police officers who fired nine rounds at Christopher Anderson at Highland Park Hospital on Nov. 3 followed police protocols and were justified in their actions.



The Lake County Major Crimes Task Force presented the results of their investigation to Nerheim and Highland Park Police Chief Paul Shafer on Monday, according a statement released Tuesday afternoon.



"My office has been de-briefed on the facts and circumstances of the shooting, and reviewed the specific actions of the officers involved," Nerheim said. "We have determined that this was a justified shooting and that the officers' actions were reasonable and appropriate."



Two officers fired nine rounds in approximately 1.7 seconds at the 27-year-old Waukegan man and he was struck multiple times.



According to the statement, hospital staff contacted the Highland Park Police Department at about 1:30 a.m. Nov. 3 for assistance with an aggressive patient, Christopher Anderson.



The police officers' contact with Anderson occurred in a treatment room with hospital personnel present. Hospital staff had asked Anderson to change into a hospital gown. According to the statement, Anderson did not comply and grew increasingly agitated.



Police officers and hospital staff attempted to calm him, at which point he drew a handgun from his waistband, placing hospital staff, patients and officers in immediate danger, according to the statement. Police officers repeatedly demanded that Anderson drop his weapon, and emergency room cameras show hospital staff fleeing the treatment room.



Witnesses reported hearing the officers issue verbal commands to drop the weapon for a time period lasting more than 45 seconds.



"When Mr. Anderson refused to drop the weapon officers were left with no alternative but to stop him," according to the statement



Investigators also learned that the handgun used by Anderson was reported stolen in Waukegan. According to records from the Illinois Department of Corrections, Anderson was out on parole after being convicted of aggravated battery and escape from a penal institution.



The hospital issued its own brief statement: "Our team of doctors and nurses worked vigorously to try and save the shooting victim's life, as they would with any trauma victim who arrives in our Emergency Department. This is a testament to the tireless dedication of our team and their commitment to the patients that we serve each and every day."



Anderson was pronounced dead at 1:46 a.m.



Shafer, the police chief, affirmed that the officers' actions were justified and necessary to protect hospital staff and the public.



"This is a significantly traumatic incident for all that are involved including the Anderson family, the hospital staff and the responding officers," Shafer said.



Frank Abderholden contributed to this report.