JPD releases shocking video of officer-involved shooting

[gtxvideo vid=”ziLb0weh” playlist=”” pid=”OTSe9U1y” thumb=”http://player.gtxcel.com/thumbs/ziLb0weh.jpg” vtitle=”JPD Officer Cleared”]

DOWNTOWN JACKSON — After almost four months of waiting, the Jackson Police Department on Monday released video and other evidence from the deadly officer-involved shooting from November. The department held a news conference after a Madison County grand jury declined to authorize charges in the case of Officer Raymond Bond earlier in the day. The panel found no evidence to support criminal charges against Bond in the shooting of Cinque D’Jahspora on Nov. 6, 2014. According to the video from Officer Bond’s front and rear dash cameras, the interaction lasts only about 20 seconds. The video begins with Bond arriving on the scene along North Parkway. He was asked to check out a suspicious man spotted in a nearby neighborhood. Within seconds of Bond getting out of his car and approaching D’Jahspora, things turned violent. D’Jahspora is seen hurling a hammer at the officer. Bond pulls his weapon and police say D’Jahspora lunges, stabbing Bond in the shoulder. He is seen coming for the officer again when Bond fires a single gunshot. Interim Chief Julian Wiser would not answer questions or comment on reports that D’Jahspora was shot in the back. Wiser instead read a brief statement. “The position of the Jackson Police Department that Officer Bond’s actions on Nov. 6, 2014, were in compliance with all policies of the department governing use of force and all state and federal laws governing self defense,” he said. Pictures of the evidence shown to grand jurors also were released. They show the hammer and knife allegedly used by D’Jahspora along with Bond’s stab wound on his shoulder. Since that day, even as recently as Saturday, D’Jahspora’s family has held vigils and marches saying the shooting was not justified. “I am hopeful that as a community we can recognize the facts as they are and move forward from here together,” Wiser said. Wiser said as of Monday, Bond is still on desk duty. He would not say when he’ll return to patrol.