FROM STAFF REPORTS

Police Monday identified a man killed in a shoot-out with police early Saturday.

Jeremy Michael Sherbon, 34, of Oklahoma City, was fatally shot in a firefight with officers, police said.

Sherbon is the seventh person to die from police gunfire in 2014 — now the deadliest year in a decade for fatal police shootings. Six people died from police gunfire in 2013.

Officers responded Saturday to a reported robbery at a 7-Eleven store in the 3600 block of N Pennsylvania Avenue. When Sgt. Tyrel Hynd arrived in the area, he found Sherbon, who fit the robber’s description.

Hynd made contact with Sherbon and attempted to detain him, said police Capt. Paco Balderrama. A physical altercation broke out between the officer and Sherbon, police said. During the fight, Sherbon took Hynd’s gun and fired at Hynd, missing him, Balderrama said.

Master Sgt. Matt Wallace arrived at the scene and saw Sherbon attempting to shoot Hynd, Balderrama said. Wallace discharged his weapon in Sherbon’s direction.

Master Sgt. Jeff Fale was the third officer to arrive at the scene. When he attempted to exit his vehicle, Sherbon turned and fired multiple shots at Fale, missing him but hitting his vehicle, Balderrama said.

Fale and Wallace returned fire as Sherbon continued to fire at them, police said. Sherbon was hit by the officers’ return fire and died at the scene, police said.

Hynd, who was injured during the altercation, was treated and released from a hospital, according to police.

Hynd has five years of experience, Wallace has been on the force for 14 years and Fale has 15 years of service.

All three officers have been placed on routine paid administrative leave, Balderrama said.

Strange robbery

About 2:30 a.m. Saturday, police received a 911 call about a robbery at a 7-Eleven store at 3624 N Pennsylvania. A woman who works at the store told police a man came into the business and started flirting with her, according to a police report. The man got an energy drink and walked up to the counter. He was acting weird, the woman said.

The man used a food stamp card, the woman said.

The man then asked the woman if she had a cigarette he could have, and the woman gave him one of her personal cigarettes, the police report states. She asked the man if he needed a lighter. The man said no, but he needed money. He reportedly asked the woman for the money in the register.

The woman told police she didn’t know if the man had a weapon on him because he was wearing baggy clothing and a hoodie. She opened the register and gave the man the money.

The man said “thank you” and then left, the report states.