One year after the fatal shooting of a 40-year-old black woman by a white Ann Arbor police officer, city leaders and community members are continuing to reflect on the incident and trying to find ways to heal.

After a Michigan State Police investigation, the Washtenaw County Prosecutor's Office concluded Officer David Ried was justified in shooting Aura Rosser when she came at officers with a knife last November as police were responding to a domestic dispute inside a home on Ann Arbor's west side.

But many still believe Rosser's death could have been avoided, and many want to see reforms in the Ann Arbor Police Department.

In the aftermath of the Rosser shooting, the AAPD began equipping officers with body cameras that allow police to record interactions with the public.

Officers also have gone through new training, including diversity training, and there are talks of doing more specialized training.

As of last week, the city's Human Rights Commission is now recommending the city take other steps to improve police-community relations.

The commission released a 42-page report titled "Civilian Police Review: Recommendations for Strengthening Police-Community Relations in Ann Arbor."

Among the commission's many recommendations is the creation of an all-volunteer board that would review and investigate complaints against Ann Arbor police officers, ensuring thoroughness and neutrality, and "make mediation and restorative practice techniques available where appropriate, as a way to address complaints and improve communication between residents and police officers."

Aura Rosser

Officially referred to as the Civilian Police Review Board, it's envisioned as a nine-member body appointed by the mayor and City Council.

The commission believes a review board like the ones in place in dozens of other communities across the country could lead to enhanced trust in the police and a better relationship between the community and the police.

The report's executive summary notes there have been repeated demonstrations against police killings and calls for police reform nationally, including in Ann Arbor in response to the Rosser shooting.

"There are a lot of people who don't understand why this case resonated so strongly with the people of Ann Arbor, especially - but certainly not only - with members of our black community," said Leslie Stambaugh, commission chairwoman.

The report states while Ann Arbor has many reasons to be proud of its police, "there is and will always be concern that vital rights be protected in pursuit of effective law enforcement tactics and strategies" and "civilian review of the AAPD could help provide assurance to the community that those rights are being protected."

Interim Police Chief Jim Baird said the police department has been in contact with the commission throughout the process and is open to the idea.

Baird believes if more people get an inside look at the work the police do in Ann Arbor, it's only going to help the department.

"But what that looks like, there's just so many factors we have to work on, so it's still kind of in the infancy stages," he said.

Sumi Kailasapathy, the City Council's liaison to the Human Rights Commission, said the commission will hold a public hearing at 6 p.m. Dec. 9 in the council chambers at city hall, 301 E. Huron St. After additional public input, she plans to bring a proposal to council to take action on the commission's recommendations.

"This whole issue came up about a year ago when Aura Rosser was killed," she said, adding it took a year of hard work to produce the report.

"The basic premise that we took was the police cannot police themselves," she said. "We need community oversight."

As one example of lack of transparency, Kailasapathy said, the AAPD right now refuses to make even blank copies of its use-of-force forms publicly available.

"There has to be checks and balances," she said. "That's what this is all about. So, we support our policemen, but we also want checks and balances in our society."

The new review board, as envisioned by the Human Rights Commission, would hold public forums at least once a year to get input from the community on police-community relations and recommend changes in policies and practices.

The commission unanimously approved a resolution last week urging the City Council to hire a consultant knowledgeable about best practices in policing, training, complaint handling and oversight to conduct a thorough review and evaluation of AAPD policies and practices, recommend reforms, and help start up the civilian board.

The commission has other recommendations for adopting alternative dispute resolution for some situations, fully implementing the use of crisis intervention teams and community policing, and considering other changes to the AAPD's approach to policing, including better training officers to assist people with mental illnesses.

"None of the commission's recommendations, by the way, are likely to cost the city a significant amount of money, and all, we believe, will help to strengthen police-community relations in Ann Arbor," Stambaugh said.

Council Member Chuck Warpehoski, D-5th Ward, offered remarks at Thursday night's council meeting, responding to a demonstration underway at city hall ahead of the one-year anniversary of the Rosser shooting.

"This happened across the street from me," Warpehoski said of the shooting. "There's not a week that goes by that I don't think of her death and mourn it."

Warpehoski said there are two accounts of the shooting, both of which have important truths.

"One account of the incident is that there was a domestic assault in progress that put other members of that house in immediate danger for their wellbeing and life," he said.

"Officers responded to that domestic assault and were faced with a split-second decision about how to respond. There were a variety of responses that were legal and appropriate according to the training they've received. The two officers responding made different decisions, and the outcome of that was a tragedy."

Warpehoski said the officer who fired his gun showed restraint in previous encounters where the use of a firearm would have been justified.

That said, Warpehoski said, social science research does show even people with the best intentions can exhibit bias in their behaviors, and national data shows significant racial disparities in police and law enforcement activities.

"In that context, there's a question of would that officer have made the same decision in a different setting with a person of a different race," he said.

"I think the national conversation around Black Lives Matter and this local death of Aura Rosser are opportunities for us to look forward and figure out how can we continue to improve our city's training, policies and procedures regarding prevention of bias-based policing," Warpehoski said.

Baird said Thursday's demonstration was helpful to understand some of the perspectives still out there about the shooting.

"It seems like it has shifted a little bit," he said. "Initially it was a lot of this talk we heard that it wasn't justified, and now the talk seems to be a little bit different -- like how can the community move on -- and I had a lot of positive conversations with people regarding the issue when I was down there."

Baird maintains the fact that Rosser was black was an irrelevant detail when officers were deciding how to handle the situation.

"Race was not a relevant part of that situation," he said. "Those officers did what they had to do with what they were confronted with."

Ried, the officer who shot Rosser, "was incredibly professional in the action he had to take that night," Baird said.

Ried is still an active patrol officer in Ann Arbor.

Shirley Beckley, one of the demonstrators at city hall Thursday night, publicly addressed the council and asked city officials for a meeting to figure out a way to honor Rosser's life. She said Rosser's life was important.

"This is a woman who was an artist, a mother, a woman, someone we care about, a person that had some mental issues," she said.

"You had alternatives to deal with her, rather than kill her," she said, suggesting Ried should be fired.

"If you won't at least fire officer Ried, then ... let's string him up," she said, drawing applause from other demonstrators.

In addition to questions about whether Rosser would have been shot if she was white, the Human Rights Commission report states, "Some residents have not forgotten the 1995 investigation where, in a difficult-to-solve rape case, DNA was collected by Ann Arbor police from 150 black men who met a very general description of the perpetrator, but were not linked to the crime by any other evidence."

The report indicates 10 percent of the AAPD's 119 sworn officers are black, while 82 percent are white, and 76 percent are male.

A chart included in the new Ann Arbor Human Rights Commission report looking at diversity in the Ann Arbor Police Department. The report states 82 percent of officers are white in a city that is only 73 percent white, and among the 45 leadership positions (detective or higher) in the department, minority members are rare, and gender imbalance also exists.

The commission suggests increased diversity in the AAPD workforce could enhance the workplace culture, provide a different perspective on the department's policies and procedures, and broaden connections to the diverse population of the city.

The report indicates no outside expert has conducted a thorough review of AAPD's policies, procedures, training and handling of complaints in many years.

Warpehoski said he thinks the city is in a bit of a holding pattern until it hires a new police chief.

The city is considering three finalists for the position, including Baird and two external candidates -- one from Texas and one from Detroit.

"For me, an ability to lead on issues of race and policing will be a priority for the new chief," Warpehoski said.

City Administrator Steve Powers plans to make a recommendation on hiring a new police chief on Nov. 16.

"Each of the three candidates for police chief said how important it is for there to be engagement and transparency, and how that connection between the police department and the community is important," he said.

Ryan Stanton covers the city beat for The Ann Arbor News. Reach him at ryanstanton@mlive.com.