Megan Cassidy, and Jennifer Soules

The Republic | azcentral.com

The man who died in custody following a frenzied early Sunday morning encounter with Phoenix police was 48-year-old Daniel Zamora%2C officials said.

Phoenix police said the man who died in custody early Sunday called emergency operators several times and either hung up or acted incoherently before police arrived at his northwest Phoenix home, according to a police statement on Monday.

Daniel Zamora, 48, told operators he was feeling sick when he called 911 before 6 a.m. Sunday, but neighbors soon began calling police saying someone was acting erratically in the area of 39th and Glendale avenues, prompting police to upgrade the call from a welfare check, police said.

Witnesses would later tell police that Zamora appeared to be on drugs and had been causing a neighborhood commotion by repeatedly honking a car horn and trying to break into a residence through the front door.

Officials said Zamora then proceeded to another home and banged on its door several times. He then picked up a cement statue in the front yard and hurled it through the home's living-room window, police said.

Zamora then attempted to gain entry into the home but was unsuccessful, according to a Phoenix police statement. He was also accused of breaking glass table at the same home as police arrived.

Officers said they found Zamora acting paranoid when they found him in the front yard of the home on Sunday morning. Zamora told police he believed someone was trying to hurt him and did not believe the officers when they told him they were members of law enforcement, records show.

A confrontation ensued when officers tried to calm Zamora down and, in turn, Zamora tried to punch an officer, police said. Zamora was handcuffed after a brief struggle, and police say he became unresponsive and stopped breathing.

Officers began CPR and called for assistance from the Phoenix Fire Department. Zamora was pronounced dead shortly afterward at Phoenix Baptist Hospital.

Phoenix police Sgt. Jonathan Howard said Zamora was a transient but had family in the area, which may explain why he was in the neighborhood.

The Maricopa County Medical Examiner's Office will determine the cause of death, Howard said.

Court records indicate that Zamora had history with law enforcement, including a Nov. 9, 2000, arrest in which he fought with Maricopa County Sheriff's deputies after being handcuffed.

The fight with deputies left Zamora unconscious, according to court records, and he was later acquitted of aggravated assault and resisting arrest.