The family of a Pierce College student who was fatally shot last month by Los Angeles police in Van Nuys after he cut himself with a knife and allegedly became aggressive with officers has filed a $15-million wrongful death claim against the city.

The claim, a precursor to a lawsuit, involving the death of 22-year-old Josue Fuentes was filed earlier this month and alleges damages for loss of companionship, comfort and affection, among other things.

“We’re trying to seek justice for an unjustifiable killing of Josue Fuentes,” said Beverly Hills-based attorney A. Mark Balali, who is representing the family. “He obviously had a family who cared about him. He obviously deserved to live like everyone else in society as well. It’s hard to put a dollar value on a human being’s life.”

The city rejected the claim on Dec. 19, which is considered standard procedure, said Rob Wilcox, a spokesman for the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office who declined to comment further citing possible litigation.

Fuentes, of Van Nuys, was shot and killed Nov. 9 by Los Angeles Police Department West Valley Division officers after they responded to a radio call of a man cutting himself with a knife in the area of Victory Boulevard and Haskell Avenue. Police saw a man holding a knife to his own neck and walking eastbound on Victory, according to authorities. They said he ignored officers’ commands to stop cutting himself and to drop the knife. At one point, the man “became aggressive” toward the officers, police have said, but they have so far declined to specify in what way.

The two officers involved, both of whom fired their weapons, were Abdias Velasco, who has been on the force about seven years, and Cesar Gutierrez, who has a little over a year in the department, said Lt. Andy Neiman, an LAPD spokesman.

The incident is still under investigation by LAPD’s Force Investigation Division but both officers have returned to the field, he said. Police are also still seeing witnesses to the incident, he said.

Fuentes died of “multiple gunshot wounds” and his death was ruled a homicide, according to Craig Harvey of the L.A. County Department of Medical Examiner/Coroner. He was also found with multiple self-inflicted sharp force injuries, he said.

A protest over Fuentes’ death was staged by family and friends in Van Nuys nearly a week after the incident, KTLA reported. Earlier this month, Fuentes was one of several people remembered at a demonstration over controversial police shootings organized by college students in Sherman Oaks.

In 2012, Fuentes was convicted of a Burbank municipal code infraction for possessing or using alcohol in a recreation area, park or playground and was fined, according to Los Angeles Superior Court records and the Burbank City Attorney’s Office. He had no other violations or crimes in Los Angeles County, according to the court records.

The family was not aware that Fuentes, who also worked as a medical assistant, had any mental illness, Balali said.

“This young man definitely had dreams,” Balali said. “He was on the right path.”