SAN BERNARDINO >> Five members of a Los Angeles-area narcotics detail were justified in the fatal shooting of a San Bernardino man on Nov. 13, 2014, the San Bernardino District Attorney’s Office announced Thursday.

“Under the facts, circumstances and the applicable law, all involved officers were justified in employing deadly force,” a news release states.

The five officers fired 41 shots at George Ramirez, 35, striking him six times, according to an incident report prepared by San Bernardino police Detective Steve Turner.

The district attorney’s office is identifying only two of the officers, Downey police detectives Michael Hernandez and Enrique Romo. The names of the other three officers — another detective and a sergeant with Downey Police Department and a Redondo Beach police detective — “have been withheld due to officer safety concerns,” the news release states.

The five officers were part of an L.A. Impact narcotics task force that followed an unidentified man suspected of transporting drugs as he drove a gold Ford Taurus from Calexico to San Bernardino, according to Turner’s report.

The man picked up another man, later identified as Ramirez, at an unspecified location and then drove to the Inland Center Mall. The driver exited the car and Ramirez drove to a residence on East Rialto Avenue, where officers observed what they suspected was drug-related activity.

Ramirez was shot and killed after pointing a .22-caliber Deringer handgun toward officers attempting to “freeze” the suspected drug crime scene pending a search warrant, the report states.

Ramirez had been lying beneath the back of the Taurus — investigators later determined he was hiding drugs underneath and inside the gas tank — when officers demanded he show his hands. According to Turner’s report, Ramirez stood up and pointed the Deringer at at least two of the officers. At that time, the officers believed their lives or the lives of their colleagues were in danger and they opened fire.

During the gunfire, one of the unidentified detectives was shot through the flesh of his right hip and another bullet lodged in the right lower back of his protective vest. The lodged bullet was identified as having come from Hernandez’s gun.

It isn’t clear from the report whether Ramirez fired his weapon. Ramirez’s gun was found to be empty, the report states, and no shell casings were found from it. Ammunition was, however, found in the nearby garage, described in the report as “in a state of disarray with many open bags and boxes.”

“There is the possibility that shell casings from Ramirez’s gun flew into one of many hiding spots and thus were never located by the crime scene investigators,” the report continues.

However, the fact that Ramirez pointed his gun at the officers was sufficient cause for the officers’ use of deadly force “in response to an apparent and immediate threat of great bodily injury and lethal force to themselves and their partners,” the report states.

“Their conduct is therefore justifiable as self-defense and defense of others and no criminal liability should attach to them,” the report concludes.

The report also notes Ramirez tested positive for having methamphetamine and amphetamine in his blood.