Shortly after shooting a man who walked toward them in a threatening manner while carrying a knife and pepper spray, Butler Twp. police Sgt. Todd Stanley told his partner he had no choice but to fire four times at the suspect, cruiser cam footage shows.

The video, obtained exclusively by the Dayton Daily News and WHIO on Tuesday, accompanies the results of an internal investigation that cleared Stanley of any violations in the fatal shooting of Andrew Brady Davidson in a Miller Lane parking lot on Nov. 13, 2014. Three of the shots struck Davidson, of Tipp City, and he was declared dead at the scene by paramedics. He was 33.

Stanley was cleared Feb. 2 of any criminal wrongdoing by a Montgomery County grand jury. The internal report, completed last month by the Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office, found Stanley’s actions to be justified.

“Sergeant Stanley’s application of deadly force is consistent with Butler Township’s deadly force policy, and is declared proper conduct,” the report stated.

Davidson’s toxicology showed positive results for four different substances, but the exact drugs were redacted in the report provided by Butler Twp. Two were categorized as being in the benzodiazepine family, which are psychoactive drugs.

Efforts to reach Davidson’s family members Tuesday afternoon were unsuccessful.

“Obviously, it’s a traumatic event for the family. …,” Butler Twp. police Chief John Cresie said. “But it’s also a traumatic event for the police department as well.”

Stanley and Officer Amy Carter responded to Miller Lane after cell phone pings placed Davidson in the area.

Davidson was considered “armed and dangerous” after Piqua police Chief Bruce Jamison said Davidson had threatened to kill employees at the Nitto Denko automotive factory in Piqua and was wanted in connection with a menacing by stalking complaint filed by a woman who worked there.

The cruiser cam video shows the entire confrontation between Davidson and the Butler Twp. officers lasted less than five minutes.

Stanley got out of his squad car with his gun drawn and yelled at Davidson, “Get your hands out where I can see them,” as Carter yelled a similar command.

Seconds later, Stanley yelled again, “Hey, get your hands where I can see them” as he kicked the trunk of Davidson’s red Chevrolet Cavalier. “Get your hands up! Get your (expletive) hands up, (expletive)!”

Cresie said that both officers acted appropriately and that he had no issue with Stanley yelling obscenities.

“I think that the officer was faced with a potentially hazardous (situation) where he was dealing with a subject who was known to be armed and dangerous,” Cresie said. “I think the officer was trying to elicit compliance from Mr. Davidson.”

The video doesn’t show Davidson in his car, but does show Stanley telling dispatchers what he and Carter are seeing. The officers said Davidson had a knife and that he tried to pepper-spray them through the car window.

About 2:15 into the incident, Carter can be heard saying that Davidson indicated he has a gun.

Twenty seconds later, Stanley told Davidson, “Stay in the car” as Davidson got out with a knife in his left hand raised above his shoulder.

Stanley then fired four times in succession, causing Davidson to fall to the pavement. Carter kicked the knife away from Davidson before Davidson tries to pick up and discharge the pepper spray again.

About a minute later, Stanley flipped Davidson onto his stomach and handcuffed him as groans can be heard. Stanley then told Carter, “I didn’t have a choice” and Carter responded, “No, you didn’t.”

Medics examined Davidson about five minutes after the shooting and declared him deceased. No gun was found.

At the time of the shooting, Stanley had been with the department for 14 years. Carter was a two-year veteran hired in 2011 as an auxiliary officer and hired part-time in 2013. Neither was hurt during the incident.

Carter returned to duty Nov. 23. Stanley had administrative duties from November until Feb. 19. when he returned to his regular schedule.