The Greenville Police Department released a statement on Nov. 15 concerning the investigation into the murder of Eddie Caballero Lopez:

“In the early morning hours of Friday, November 14, 2014, Hunt County Sheriff’s Office SWAT, DPS SWAT, and Greenville Police Department executed a search warrant in Wolfe City searching for Thomas Isaac Medlin, suspect in the murder of Eddie Caballero Lopez. Medlin was not at the location.

Members of law enforcement agencies continued searching for Medlin as the day wore on, and Greenville Police simultaneously filed murder charges on Medlin. A Ford F-350 truck had been reported stolen in the Wolfe City area in the early part of Friday. At app. 4 pm Friday, the owner of the stolen vehicle spotted his truck and gave chase. He followed the truck through two fences into a pasture off of CR4803. Both occupants of the stolen truck fled on foot, those occupants were Medlin and Amanda Barcenas (another person of interest in the Lopez murder.)

Lt. Tommy Grandfield arrived on scene and began setting up a perimeter with the assistance of other law enforcement agencies. A DPS helicopter was called in to assist in locating the suspects from the air. The Texas Department of Corrections Moore Unit tracking dogs were called in from Bonham to assist with the search. Medlin was considered to be armed and dangerous.

Shortly after dogs were deployed, a single gunshot was heard by the Moore Unit. Members of the Unit were able to locate and take the female suspect into custody. The Commerce Police Department SWAT unit was deployed and found Medlin dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Justice of the Peace Wayne Money, pronounced the death. The female subject was transported to the Hunt County Jail.

‘I would like to thank DPS Air support, the Moore Unit tracking dogs, Chief Kerry Crews and the Commerce Police Department, Shane Stone with the Texas Auto Task Force of Paris PD, Constable Terry Jones, Wolfe City Police Department, Lone Oak Police Department, Texas A&M University Police Department, Homeland Security, Delta County Sheriff’s Office, the Greenville Police Department, and Texas Ranger Laura Simmons in assisting us with this case,’ said Hunt County Sheriff Randy Meeks.”