TRENTON >> Two Trenton cops are off the hook for fatally shooting a city man two dozen times nearly three years ago.

A Mercer County grand jury voted against bringing charges against police officers Robert Albanowski and Marlon Parrot in the shooting death of 31-year-old Darnell Stafford.

The case was investigated by the county homicide task force. The grand jury heard testimony from witnesses in the case before deciding not to take action against the cops who killed Stafford during a Nov. 13, 2014 shootout following a home invasion.

The prosecutor’s office announced the findings Friday afternoon. They did not name the officers in a detailed statement about the shooting, referring to them only as “Officers #1 and #2.”

Previous Trentonian reports identified the cops involved as Albanowski and Parrot, who have since retired.

Stafford’s family in an interview earlier this year said they were frustrated with the slow pace of the investigation into the police shooting.

They still had questions about whether the killing was justified after an NBC reporter quoted an anonymous witness saying, “It’s justified for you to return fire. I have no problem with that. But, I mean, 20 (to) 30 shots after the guy was on the ground?”

The prosecutor’s office determined Stafford was shot 24 times, but still found the police killing was justified because the suspect fired on police first and refused to give up after initially being shot and falling to the ground.

Family members said they watched the shootout in “real time.” Relatives met with prosecutors Friday morning, prior to the release of the report.

Stafford’s mother was unhappy with the outcome of the investigation.

“Something should be done about it. It’s not fair,” Phyllis Hooks said.

The report was required to be released under Attorney General guidelines. Prosecutors found the shooting was justified because “an officer may use deadly force when the officer reasonably believes it is immediately necessary to protect the officer or another person from imminent danger or death or serious bodily injury.”

According to prosecutors, the investigation revealed Stafford was armed when he entered a home on Wilson Street, holding up the family inside.

He demanded cash from the residents. A woman fled with her 3-month-old infant and 16-year-old son while Stafford confronted a man inside the home.

Stafford jacked personal belongings from the man while struggling with him and chasing him down the street as police converged on the scene.

Albanowski and Parrot were in marked units when they arrived, speeding up to position their cruisers between the armed Stafford and his victims.

The man Stafford was chasing shouted to one of the officers, “This guy is trying to shoot me,” prosecutors said.

In front of several witnesses, from about a foot away from a police cruiser, Stafford shot into the window of Officer #1’s cop car with his long-barrel handgun, sparking a volley of gunfire in the neighborhood.

Albanowski and Parrot returned fire, fatally felling Stafford who was struck multiple times.

“Immediately upon seeing Stafford pointing the handgun at him, Officer #1 ducked to avoid being fatally shot, drew his duty weapon and fired at Stafford from inside the police vehicle,” according to the statement from prosecutors. “Officer #2 exited the police vehicle on the passenger’s side and returned fire from the rear of the vehicle.”

Stafford ran toward a driveway of two homes on Wilson Street while cops ordered him to drop his gun. He was shot when he turned back toward the cops with his right arm raised.

He fell to the ground but continued moving around, prosecutors said, while being ordered to show his hands. Stafford tried to get up and was hit again.

“It’s a lose-lose situation,” said Phil Jackson, the fiance of Stafford’s mother. “Darnell’s not here. Either way, I hate to say this word, but it kinda sucks. The outcome is still what happened that day.”

Cops handcuffed Stafford, who was found with the victim’s wallet, ID and jewelry.

Prosecutors said a .22-caliber Smith & Wesson was recovered on the sidewalk.

Jackson said he it was hard for him to take knowing the cops unloaded on his stepson after he was apparently unarmed after falling to the ground.

“Did you have to shoot him again while he was down on the ground?” Jackson said. “At close range. Twenty-four times. You unloaded the clip and you had time to reload the clip and shoot him while he was on the ground.”

Editor’s Note: This story was updated to include comments from Stafford’s family.