Lori Higgins, and Katrease Stafford

Michigan

Clinton Township police did not originally reveal the crash involved a police chase

A motorist was being chased by police Saturday when his car ran a red light and slammed into another vehicle in Macomb County, killing both drivers, police said Monday.

The incident, culminating in the 2:46 a.m. crash at Gratiot and Hall Road in Clinton Township, is being investigated, according to Macomb County Sheriff Anthony Wickersham. It was at least the second time in the past couple of months that an innocent motorist was killed in a crash involving a police chase.

In Saturday's incident, Macomb Sheriff's deputies began chasing 24-year-old Antonio Daniel Forton in Mount Clemens after he "fled at a high rate of speed" during an attempted traffic stop, Wickersham said. Forton's 2003 Dodge Stratus was northbound on Gratiot, ran a stoplight at Hall Road and crashed into a 2002 Chevy Avalanche driven by 45-year-old Lonnie Charles Wimberly, according to Clinton Township police.

Clinton Township police did not originally reveal the crash came during a police chase, an omission Wickersham took issue with Monday. Wickersham said that was not at the request of his office.

"Unfortunately for whatever reason, their release omitted what I felt was an important fact," Wickersham said. "I've been up front and honest that yes this was a pursuit. We have nothing to hide. This obviously is a very tragic event."

Clinton Township Police officials could not be reached for comment.

Wickersham declined to say why deputies attempted to stop Forton, but said he is conducting "an internal review of our policies and procedures and making sure that our personnel did everything they were supposed to."

Forton had prior convictions at the time of his death according to online court records on the 16th Judicial Circuit Court's website, which show he was sentenced to 270 days in jail for a felony larceny charge in 2010.

He was scheduled to be in court Nov. 20 for a pre-trial conference on five counts of breaking into a building in Clinton Township. According to the records, he was freed on a $5,000 bond.

Wickersham said the investigation of the actual accident has been turned over to the Clinton Township police. No Clinton Township officers or any other police agencies were involved in the traffic stop.

According to his family, Wimberly was on his way home from a job as a deejay at a Detroit men's club when the crash occurred.

On Sunday afternoon, Wimberly's family was still reeling from the news.

"He was a beautiful person," L.C. Wimberly said of his son, who lived in St. Clair Shores. "He was his mom's baby. This is devastating to her."

Wimberly planned to meet with Clinton Township police today.

"There are a lot of questions I have. I want to find out what happened," Wimberly said.

Wimberly said his son had just wrapped up his job as a DJ at the Watts Mozambique – a strip club – at about 2 a.m. Saturday. He'd worked there for years.

"He'd been passionate about music since he was a kid," L.C. Wimberly said.

His other passion was his mother, Dorothy Wimberly. Though Lonnie was the oldest of five children, he was always considered her "baby," L.C. Wimberly said.

"He took care of his mom. He dedicated his life to her. She loves the rest of them, don't get me wrong. But that's her world. Those were his two passions – that music and his mom."

Lonnie Wimberly's stage name was taken from a '60s cartoon character named Touche', though it appears Wimberly may have spelled it Tooshay.

He was raised on the east side of Detroit, and graduated from Kettering High School. About 16 years ago he moved out to Macomb County, his father said.

In October, Francesca Weatherhead, 25, of Royal Oak, was killed when her SUV was broadsided in Redford by a car being chased by Livonia police after a daytime home burglary. John McCallum, 27, of Detroit, was charged with second-degree murder and five other charges.