Maya Lau

maya.lau@shreveporttimes.com

The small campus of Centenary College of Louisiana in the Highland neighborhood of Shreveport was largely quiet Friday, a day after a man was shot and killed by an officer outside John F. Magale Library.

Shreveport resident Charles Marcus McCauley, 35, was being escorted off campus because of his "peculiar behavior" Thursday night when he revealed a handgun in a struggle with two Centenary College Department of Public Safety officers, prompting one of them to shoot him dead, according to police.

He was a father. He had a criminal past. He was known to have threatened others' lives. A family member, asked about McCauley, didn't add many more details.

"He was 35 years old, and he was shot to death last night, and that's all you need to know," a man who identified himself only as McCauley's father said over the phone before adding "thank you" and hanging up.

McCauley was pronounced dead at University Health Shreveport. One of the officers involved in the shooting was treated for a minor injury at the scene, but no students, staff or faculty were injured. The campus is considered secure, said Shreveport police department spokesman Cpl. Breck Scott.

"I was shaken up," said Centenary College president David Rowe, who flew in from out of town Friday in part to talk with and comfort students. "I know they were shaken up."

Many of the liberal arts college's 640 students, most of them undergraduates, had already left for the week-long Thanksgiving break by the time McCauley wandered onto the 65-acre campus Thursday shortly after 4:30 p.m.

He was asking people for help.

McCauley "didn't seem to have any specific business with the college," Rowe said.

The visitor allegedly wanted "pastoral care," according to Jenifer K. Ward, provost and dean of the college, which is affiliated with the United Methodist church. Two students, Sadie Wallace, 19, and Nathan Hooper, 20, said they bumped into a nervous, disheveled-looking man believed to be McCauley sometime before the shooting and said he was looking for the school's chaplain.

After entering the Smith Building, where the chaplain has an office but was not present, McCauley apparently traveled across campus and up to the second floor of Hamilton Hall, where the president and other administrators work. The United Methodist Church district supervisor keeps an office there.

Staff members reported spotting a handgun on McCauley's person and reported the information to campus police, who responded swiftly, according to a news release issued by the college. Scott confirmed the weapon was real but he wouldn't say if the firearm was loaded.

Court records show McCauley's rap sheet extends back to at least 1999 when he pleaded guilty to burglary. He was convicted of domestic abuse battery in May, and was sentenced to four months in jail for the crime. He was also convicted of resisting a police officer with force or violence in 2012, and of threatening a public official in 2011.

That charge resulted from his alleged threat to kill "everyone" in the Shreveport and Alexandria offices of the Louisiana Department of Child and Family Services after he requested that an investigation into his actions be moved to a different office. The request was denied.

He apparently announced "I am going to have to start kiling people," after growing belligerent, according to court documents.

He's the father of at least one child, a five-year-old, according to public records.

Centenary College has never had an officer-involved shooting before, said Kate Pedrotty, the college's director of strategic communication.

But other crimes including burglaries, robberies and rapes have occurred in the past two years on its open campus, which is located along King's Highway, a busy thoroughfare.

A female student walking on campus was reportedly attacked and raped by three men just before midnight one night in October 2013, according to Centenary police. To date, no one has been arrested for the crime, Pedrotty said .

Two robberies, one burglary and a motor-vehicle theft on campus also were reported last year, according to crime figures from the college. In 2012, 15 reported burglaries occurred on campus.

"For a campus this size we have a particularly robust and well-trained security staff," Ward said. The college employs seven full-time, POST-certified officers.

Rowe said though the public can meander onto Centenary's campus, the institution reserves the right to ask people unaffiliated with the college to leave.

"We're very welcoming to visitors on our campus, but we have hundreds of eyes and ears on campus who have an excellent rapport with our Department of Public Safety and keep them informed whenever they see suspicious activity," he said, adding that he's proud of the professional way staff and campus officers handled the precarious situation Thursday night.

"Our hearts go out to the family of the man who lost his life," Rowe said.

Twitter: @mayalau