Three Lake Havasu City police officers were justified when they opened fire Nov. 23, killing a Lake Havasu City man who pointed his firearm at them, the Kingman Police Department determined after an independent review of the incident.

Three Lake Havasu City police officers were justified when they opened fire Nov. 23, killing a Lake Havasu City man who pointed his firearm at them, the Kingman Police Department determined after an independent review of the incident. (AP Photo/Courtesy, Lake Havasu City Convention and Visitors Bureau)

KINGMAN, Ariz. — Three Lake Havasu City police officers were justified when they opened fire Nov. 23, killing a Lake Havasu City man who pointed his firearm at them, the Kingman Police Department determined after an independent review of the incident.

Justin Roady, 33, suffered 12 gunshot wounds when Officers Brian Jacobs, Jason Johnston and Lorne Jackson fired 18 rounds, according to Lake Havasu Police Sgt. Troy Stirling. He said Roady had been drinking at several bars before arriving at his home in the 3100 block of Silversmith Drive just after midnight.

Stirling said a babysitter and children safely left the home after Roady crashed his vehicle into the garage, retrieved firearms and began shooting. Roady fired 26 rounds inside and outside his home from a handgun, a rifle and a shotgun, Stirling said.

Chief Deputy Mohave County attorney Jace Zack said Roady was deeply intoxicated, had argued with his wife, endangered his neighbors and had already committed numerous felonies by the time arriving officers positioned themselves around the residence. Zack said Roady swore at police and refused their commands to drop his weapon.

“Instead, he raised his gun, stiffened his arm over the bed of the pick-up and pointed his gun at the officers,” Zack said in a letter setting forth his findings. “Those officers reasonably believed they were in mortal danger and that the use of deadly force was immediately necessary to defend themselves.”

The officers who were placed on paid administrative leave for 12 days after the shooting.