Seaside >> Officials investigating fatal officer-involved shooting in Seaside said Monday the victim was armed with a machete and carrying a toddler when he was struck by gunfire.

Nestor Cruz-Ciriaco, 27, was standing in the driveway just outside his Laguna Street home Saturday when officers responding to a domestic disturbance call made contact with him. Berkley Brannon, chief assistant with the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office, said Cruz-Ciriaco was shot by an officer after he picked-up a 3-year-old toddler while holding a machete.

The child was not injured during the shooting and did not need medical treatment, Seaside Chief Louis Lumpkin said. The child’s relationship to Cruz-Ciriaco was not immediately known.

Witnesses said the Cruz-Ciriaco was shot after a confrontation with officers.

“I heard two shots fired and then screaming, ‘Child on the ground!’” Robin Shaw, a woman who lived a few houses down. “My blood just curdled.”

Cruz-Ciriaco was pronounced dead at Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula after being shot twice, authorities said.

Information detailing the threats Cruz-Ciriaco posed to either the toddler or the officer remain unclear. The timeline provided by authorities suggests the shooting occurred less than 25 minutes after officers arrived at the scene. The domestic disturbance call was received at 5:21 p.m. and by 5:45 p.m. shots had been fired, Brannon said.

Both Seaside police and the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office are investigating the shooting.

“The considerations for the officer are whether there was a threat to the life of either the officer or a third party,” Brannon said.

The officer was placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation and police have not released his name citing concerns for his safety, police Cmdr. Judy Stradan said in a statement.

Cruz-Ciriaco had a criminal history, but it was not lengthy. In January 2009, criminal charges were filed after an arrest in Seaside, but details about the charges were not available immediately. He also had a civil child-support case which was settled in 2013.

Brannon said it will be at least three months before toxicology and pathology reports are completed.

It was the sixth officer-involved shooting in the county this year, four of which were in Salinas. Saturday’s incident appears to be the first officer-involved Seaside shooting in recent history.

The DA’s office recently cleared two deputies involved in the March fatal shooting of Hector “Junior” Chairez in Big Sur, deciding deputies acted in self-defense when they opened fire on Chairez.

Five officer-involved shootings are still under investigation, including Saturday’s.

Brannon said a “quite lengthy” and detailed description of what occurred during the shooting death of Cruz-Ciriaco should be expected soon.

Ana Ceballos can be reached at 831-726-4377.