West Covina Police K-9 Reiko returned home Tuesday night to continue recovering from injuries suffered during an officer-involved shooting that ended in the killing of a murder suspect.

Police on Tuesday identified the suspect as Juan Jose Enriquez, 27, of Azusa and the man he allegedly killed as Erick Arcadio Moreno, 24, of Pomona. Both died from their injuries Sunday.

It remains unclear what led to the shooting and the West Covina Police Department is asking that anyone with information call them at 626-939-8500, according to Rudy Lopez, the department’s public information officer. A taxi cab that officers towed from the scene of the shooting apparently dropped Moreno off shortly before the shooting at about 11 p.m. Sunday. The driver is not the suspect or the victim and it’s not certain whether he witnessed the shooting, according to Lopez. He could not say whether the driver, who also had the surname of Moreno, is related to the victim.

Police said Enriquez shot Reiko after a police helicopter found him hiding on a roof following the suspected shooting of Moreno about a block away. The dog charged the man as he opened fire on police and was struck near his spine. Police Chief David Faulkner said the dog may have saved the lives of the two officers who were involved in the shooting.

The two officers who returned fire and killed Enriquez were placed on administrative leave until the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department completes its investigation of the officer-involved shooting. The leave is per department policy.

Reiko was rushed to an animal hospital in South Pasadena where emergency medical staff removed the bullet lodged near his spine and stabilized him for a trip to the Animal Specialty Group, an emergency clinic in Los Angeles where he remained until Tuesday.

Reiko is expected to take a month or more to recover before he can return to duty, according to the pet clinic. Reiko joined the police department in Dec. 2013 after a non-profit group raised the money to buy the Belgian Malinois. The West Covina Sunrise Rotary Club plans to induct Reiko as the first police K-9 member in the country, according to Lopez.