On November 25, 2014 at approximately 3:50am, the Balch Springs Police Department received a 9-1-1 call in regards to a disturbance in progress at 4317 Shephard Lane #7205 in Balch Springs, Texas. Officer Stewart and Officer Chamblee responded to the location and to the apartment. Once at the location they entered the apartment and observed a male sitting on the floor in the center of the living room with another individual who was standing beside the individual sitting on the floor. They observed that this individual, identified as being Eric Ricks, was attempting to calm the individual sitting on the floor.

The individual sitting on the floor was identified as being Eric Ladale Ricks with a birth of 06-26-1984. The Officers observed Eric Ricks sitting on the floor, rocking back and forth and chanting, as he looked around the room. Eric Ricks was chanting, "I'm fucking goood!" over and over.

The Officers observed that there was a mattress lying on the floor in the far corner of

the room, an entertainment center just inside of the door on the right, a broken glass table and a broken stone coffee table against the bar/wall that separated the kitchen from the living room. Due to Eric Ricks' behavior the Officers requested other Officers to the location. Other Officers arrived at the location and entered the apartment.

Eric Ricks then stood up from the floor and moved towards the kitchen but his path was blocked by

Officer Chamblee. Eric Ricks then stood at the end of the bar looking around at the Officers but at the same time it appeared that he was looking through them. Officers then talked with the resident of the apartment, Shomon Bell, who told them that she knew Eric Ricks and had agreed to let him stay there for the night. She stated that Eric Ricks had been dropped off at her apartment by a friend about twenty minutes earlier. She stated that she just wanted Eric Ricks out of her apartment as she did not need any trouble from him.

While Officers were inside of the apartment they observed a small clear plastic baggie lying on an ottoman in front of the entertainment center. Inside of this clear plastic baggie was a green leafy residue that smelled like marijuana. Officers also observed a tobacco pipe to the left of the television and it smelled like burnt marijuana. Ms. Bell then told Eric Ricks that he had to leave the apartment several times in front of the officers.

Eric Ricks refused to leave the apartment and told the Officers, "get the fuck out of here!" Eric Ricks stated this to the Officers several times. Officer Stewart then observed that Eric Ricks was not in the room he instructed him to come back into the living room. Eric Ricks then came out of bedroom, sat on the floor and leaned against the wall. Officer Stewart told Eric Ricks to calm down but he became more agitated. After being told several times to leave and Eric Ricks refusing to leave on his own, Sgt. Cracker and Officer Chamblee stepped towards him and told him to place his hands behind his back. Officer Chamblee then grabbed Eric Ricks' right forearm and Sgt. Cracker grabbed his left forearm. Eric Ricks then pulled away from the Officers pulling his right arm free. Sgt. Cracker

and Officer Chamblee then grabbed his right arm and moved it behind him.

Eric Ricks then began violently jerking his arms and kicking at the Officers. At this time, Officer Self deployed his taser to Eric Ricks and other Officers forced Eric Ricks to the floor in order to gain control of him. Once on the floor, Eric Ricks continued resisting the officers. Officer Stewart attempted to handcuff Eric Ricks as Sgt. Cracker and Officer Chamblee held him but he pulled his arms free and was able to get back onto his feet kicking Officer Stewart several times while doing this. Sgt. Cracker and Officer Chamblee then forced Eric Ricks against the wall near the front door. Officer Stewart then deployed his Taser on Eric Ricks. Officers then were able to place Eric Ricks face down on the floor during the Taser cycle.

When the Taser cycle ended, Eric Ricks became more violent in his resistance, breaking a Taser wire or removing one of the Taser probes. Officer Stewart then dry stunned Eric Ricks with his Taser to gain pain compliance but it was not effective. The struggle moved to the wall area between the entertainment center and the door.

Officer Chamblee gave his Taser to Officer Stewart but was unable to stun Eric Ricks without striking one of the Officers. Officer Stewart then observed that the entertainment center was about to fall on him. Officer Stewart stopped the entertainment center from falling as Sgt. Cracker, Officer Chamblee and Officer Self pinned Eric Ricks in the corner formed by the entertainment center, floor and the wall. Officer Stewart grabbed Eric Ricks' shirt collar and pulled him forward face down onto the floor. Eric Ricks place his hands out in front of him as he was going forward to the floor.

Officer Stewart then placed his left knee on Eric Ricks' right arm just above the elbow to prevent him from moving it and also grabbed his right wrist, which had a handcuff on it. Sgt. Cracker had placed his right knee on Eric Ricks' left shoulder as he grabbed his left wrist, which also had a handcuff on it. The Officers then were able to link the handcuffs together and kept his arms pinned down. Officers Self and Officer Chamblee restrained Eric Ricks' legs. These Officers held this position until other Officers arrived at the location. During the struggle with the Officers Eric Ricks grabbed a portable radio from one of the Officers belts and had also bitten Officer Chamblee on the left ring finger.

Officers then notified the Dispatcher and requested that Paramedics respond to the location. PSO Cabrerra responded to the location with a set of leg irons and these were placed on Eric

Ricks' ankles. Other Officers arrived at the location and Eric Ricks was then removed from the apartment. Paramedics arrived at the location and examined Eric Ricks. Sgt. Cracker then transported Eric Ricks to the Jail and Officer Self followed him to the Jail. When Sgt. Cracker opened the rear door of his Police vehicle he observed Eric Ricks seat belted with his head forward. Sgt. Cracker removed the seat belt and instructed Eric Ricks to get out but he did not respond. Sgt. Cracker and Officer Self then moved Eric Ricks' legs out of the Police vehicle and each grabbed an arm.

As the Officers got him out of the Police vehicle his legs collapsed. The Officers carried him inside of the Jail and lay him on the floor. Officer Stewart observed that Eric Ricks was not breathing and checked and found that he had no pulse. Sgt. Cracker then removed the handcuffs and

rolled him over on his back. At this time Officer Stewart began performing CPR on Eric Ricks. Paramedics were again notified and responded to the Jail. Upon their arrival they took over lifesaving measures and then transported Eric Ricks to Dallas Regional Medical Center.

Once arriving at the Hospital, Eric Ricks, was pronounced deceased at 6:20am by Dr. Madeline Aponte. On November 26, 2014, Detective Phelps with the Dallas Sheriff's Office, Investigator Byrd and Investigator Morgan attended the autopsy of Eric Ricks. This autopsy was conducted by Dr. Tracy Dyer. Upon completion of the autopsy she advised them that the death was pending toxicology.