Kevin Robinson

krobinson4@pnj.com

The Medical Examiner's Office is reviewing the death of a Pensacola man who had his life support terminated about two weeks after being tased five times by Escambia County Sheriff's deputies.

According to an Escambia County Sheriff's Office incident report, Cody Robert Healey, 28, was taken into custody near the entrance to Sherwood Elementary School on Dec. 1. Deputies said Healey was walking around the school screaming and waving his arms with only a T-shirt on and his genitals exposed.

The incident occurred shortly after 6 a.m., very near to Healey's home on Cherokee Trail. Sheriff David Morgan said the initial report was called in by school employees as a suspicious person who was throwing himself against cars and trees.

Healey allegedly punched, kicked and elbowed two deputies — John Beard, who responded initially, and Eric Anderson, who arrived shortly afterward to assist — as they attempted to handcuff him, the report said. During the struggle, Beard tased Healey three times in an effort get him to stop resisting and comply with commands.

The device reportedly had limited effect on Healey, who was able to break free from deputies and run to a nearby fence before being brought to the ground by officers. He was tased twice more before deputies were able to place leg shackles and hobbles on his limbs.

Healey reportedly began to have difficulty breathing and turned pale blue. According to the report, deputies "removed all restraints and continued to monitor Healey's condition."

When medical personnel arrived, they were able to restore Healey's vitals through CPR and transport him to Baptist Hospital. Healey was placed on life support, which his family terminated Monday, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Healey had two prior arrests for resisting officers.

Healey's father, Craig Healey, said it was unconscionable that deputies would use such force against his son.

"I have a granddaughter who doesn't have a dad now," he said. "My son is a 130 pound guy. If two officers had come upon the scene and it had been their son, I can guarantee their son wouldn't be dead right now."

Craig Healey said one of the deputies should have performed CPR immediately upon seeing Healey in medical distress.

"He was out there on the ground, and they did nothing," he said.

Sheriff David Morgan said his officers complied with department protocol during the arrest — including during their use of the Taser. The case has been submitted to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for review.

"There is no indication on our end that there was any violation of protocol by the deputies," Morgan said. "Not just from the officers' standpoint, but also from witnesses."

Morgan said no video of the incident was available.

The Medical Examiner's Office is conducting an autopsy and toxicology to determine Healey's cause of death.