Anna Lee

zlee@greenvillenews.com

ANDERSON – The little things just don't add up. Days after his brother was shot to death in a standoff with Anderson County sheriff's deputies, Jerry Pepper can't get certain details out of his head. Authorities have said 45-year-old John Earl Pepper was shot once in the chest when he walked to a window facing the road, punched through the glass and extended his arm out with the gun pointed toward deputies. Yet his brother could find no trace of blood in the room, no bullet hole from the deputy's rifle in the screen over the bedroom window.

"It's not what it seems," Jerry says as he stands chain-smoking Pall Malls outside his brother's three-room mill house on a recent afternoon.

The home sits on a corner, slightly above the road, in the middle of a treeless yard. A dry creek bed runs alongside the house where the ground is littered with shards of broken glass.

In a few hours, the candlelight vigil for his brother is supposed to start. The family couldn't afford a funeral, but dozens, maybe hundreds of people have been stopping to pay their respects.

"Whatever people wanted John to do, he done it," Jerry says.

John Pepper did construction work, sold scrap metal and put on hog roasts. Most everyone knew him as the Egg Man who delivered fresh eggs to local restaurants.

He always wore the same thing — overalls and a T-shirt — and stopped for breakfast at Cracker Jack, where he always ordered scrambled eggs and bacon, two grits with butter.

John was a big man, but he was kind and slow to anger, his brother says. "He might get mad at you. Two hours later, he'd come back and take you out to lunch."

The man friends and family describe sits in sharp contrast to the one authorities said was holed up in his house outside Anderson the night of Dec. 1.

On that night, Pepper was irate, disruptive and unwilling to cooperate with officers when they arrived, according to Anderson County Sheriff John Skipper. Pepper, he said, seemed highly intoxicated. Toxicology results have been sent to SLED but not yet released.

Deputies could hear him as he thundered through the house, yelling expletives and threatening to "kill them all."

He told deputies more than once that he was armed and "ready to leave this world," according to an incident report.

That doesn't sound like the brother Bobbie Gilliam knew.

"I just don't understand it," she says, perched on the edge of her brother's recliner in the living room lit by the afternoon light through a single window. A NASCAR poster hangs from one wall. An old television fills another.

Nearly a week after the shooting, she says she still can't make sense of what happened. She has replayed countless conversations with her brother and worked through them as if they're math problems.

"I've never known John to be suicidal or depressed," she says. "He never showed it, and he's 45 years old."

She wonders what might have set John off?

Why didn't deputies back off and wait for a negotiator? Or at least call a family member?

Anderson authorities aren't answering those questions, and they're referring inquiries to the State Law Enforcement Division. SLED is investigating the shooting, as they do all officer-involved shootings, and won't be discussing the case until their investigation is complete.

The sheriff's office said a man called 911 at 2:22 a.m. asking deputies to check on his friend. The caller didn't give his name but said he had already taken one gun out of Pepper's house and was worried there might be others. A deputy was dispatched to knock on the door.

Within 15 minutes, another deputy and two supervisors had arrived.

"We do calls like this every couple of weeks and talk to the person, and then they come out," the sheriff said.

This call would not end like the others.

Skipper said deputies tried and failed to get Pepper to come out of the house so they could get him help. The on-call crisis negotiator, who is trained to handle such conflicts, was phoned and briefed on the situation.

He was on his way, Skipper said, when the incident "escalated to being ended with the shot fired."

That chain of events began when Pepper, himself, called the county's 911 center and threatened to shoot the deputies and then himself if they didn't get off his property.

"I will kill them all. I'm ready to leave this world, and I'm armed with a .38-caliber handgun," Pepper reportedly said, according to an incident report.

The report recounts how Pepper walked to a window facing the road, punched through the glass and extended his arm out with the gun pointed toward deputies.

A deputy ended the standoff with a single shot fired at 3:06 a.m. from a .233-caliber rifle. The Anderson County Sheriff's Office General Orders describes the rifle as a specialty weapon issued only to SWAT Team members.

Skipper, citing the SLED investigation, wouldn't further describe the weapon, describe where the deputy was standing or say from what distance the shot was fired.

The incident report offers few specifics — Pepper was visible through the window, then he wasn't. The front door was open when deputies approached the house and saw him lying face down near the porch. Pepper was conscious and showed his hands. Officers handcuffed his hands behind his back.

He died in the hospital an hour later from a single gunshot wound to the chest.

Pepper became the latest among 38 officer-involved shootings so far this year, said SLED spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson.

Later that morning after Pepper was pronounced dead, Jerry Pepper was at his home in Starr when he saw his brother's house on the news. Gilliam was at work in Anderson when she heard someone got shot, but she didn't know it was her brother.

In the front yard, on the morning of the vigil, Pepper lights another cigarette.

"The police told me one time he was dead, and that was it," he says. "They wouldn't tell me nothing. The law still won't tell me nothing."

Someone pulls up to deliver a wreath wrapped in white ribbon. The vigil will start soon.

"It just feels like a big dream," Gilliam says as she turns to walk back inside. "I don't know how to put it into words. It just don't feel real."

The sheriff says the investigation is still in the early stages. Statements have been taken and evidence collected, including the .38 pistol.

Jerry Pepper believes he knows the gun. It's the one he gave his brother some 20 years ago.

It's been rusted shut for as long as he can remember.

2:22 a.m.

A man called 911 asking deputies to check on Pepper. A deputy was dispatched

Within 15 minutes,

another deputy and two supervisors arrived

Deputies tried and failed to get Pepper to come out of the house

A crisis negotiator is called

Pepper called 911 and threatened to shoot the deputies and then himself if they didn't leave

Pepper walked to a window facing the road, punched through the glass and extended his arm out with the gun pointed toward deputies

3:06 a.m.

A deputy ended the standoff with a single shot fired to Pepper's chest

The front door was open when deputies found Pepper conscious, lying face down near the porch

Officers handcuffed Pepper's hands behind his back

An hour later,

Pepper died in the hospital from a gunshot wound to the chest