Police are investigating after a possibly stolen car crashed into a building, causing part of the building to collapse, killing two passengers in the car.According to investigators, a traffic stop prompted a police chase at the intersection of Daly Road and Meredith Drive in Springfield Township about 2 a.m. Friday.Photos from scene l Watch this storyOfficers said they saw three people run from behind a house and get into a car parked on Meredith Drive.Police said as the car pulled away they tried to stop it, but the driver did not acknowledge them and continued down Daly Road.Police lost the vehicle, but the car ended up crashing into Finneytown Mower at 1067 North Bend Road around 2:45 a.m.According to police, James Walker, 19, was the driver and he was taken to UC Medical Center, where he was listed in intensive care.Police said two male passengers in the car were pronounced dead at the scene.Investigators said the passengers were identified Decter Hudson, 18, and Demarco Leary, 17.The business owner's daughter told WLWT News 5 that her father has been at the location since 1987 and has been in business since 1967."We love what we do. It's been kind of rough, but he didn't want to come down here today. It's kind of hard to see it the way it is, but we're hanging in there. Hopefully this isn't going to be the end of Finneytown Mower and we'll be back," Tina Wagner said.Police said the he investigation is ongoing and anyone with information should call the Springfield Township Police Department.

Police are investigating after a possibly stolen car crashed into a building, causing part of the building to collapse, killing two passengers in the car.

According to investigators, a traffic stop prompted a police chase at the intersection of Daly Road and Meredith Drive in Springfield Township about 2 a.m. Friday.

Photos from scene l Watch this story

Officers said they saw three people run from behind a house and get into a car parked on Meredith Drive.

Police said as the car pulled away they tried to stop it, but the driver did not acknowledge them and continued down Daly Road.

Police lost the vehicle, but the car ended up crashing into Finneytown Mower at 1067 North Bend Road around 2:45 a.m.

According to police, James Walker, 19, was the driver and he was taken to UC Medical Center, where he was listed in intensive care.

Police said two male passengers in the car were pronounced dead at the scene.

Investigators said the passengers were identified Decter Hudson, 18, and Demarco Leary, 17.

The business owner's daughter told WLWT News 5 that her father has been at the location since 1987 and has been in business since 1967.

"We love what we do. It's been kind of rough, but he didn't want to come down here today. It's kind of hard to see it the way it is, but we're hanging in there. Hopefully this isn't going to be the end of Finneytown Mower and we'll be back," Tina Wagner said.

Police said the he investigation is ongoing and anyone with information should call the Springfield Township Police Department.