A deranged man screaming "I want to kill the Jews!" invaded Lubavitcher headquarters in Brooklyn early Tuesday and stabbed a yeshiva student in the head before he was shot to death by police.

Levi Rosenblatt was praying when Calvin Peters barged inside, whipped out a knife with a 5-inch blade and attacked him, witnesses said.

Advertisement

"Levi had his hands up, trying to block the individual with his arms," Mendy Notik, 22, said. "He was saying, 'I will kill you.' And after Levi, he went towards another young student and he said, 'I will kill the Jews!'"

Notik said Rosenblatt, an Israeli, was bloodied but somehow managed to escape.

Advertisement

"He had blood on his shoulder, coming out from the side of his head, and he was screaming, 'He stabbed me! He stabbed me!'" Notik said of his friend. "He was in a panic."

Summoned by other screaming yeshiva students, Police Officer Timothy Donohue, who is based at the Chabad-Lubavitch World Headquarters in Crown Heights, called for backup and raced inside to confront Peters.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 3 Stabbing victim Levi Rosenblat is seen in this handout photo provided by the Chabad-Lubavitch organization in New York on December 9, 2014. New York police fatally shot a man armed with a knife on Tuesday after he stabbed Rosenblat, a rabbinical student from Israel, in a Brooklyn synagogue, and authorities quickly stepped up security at Jewish houses of worship around the city, police said. The suspect, Calvin Peters, 49, who has a history of mental illness, stabbed and wounded 22-year-old Levi Rosenblat, who was studying at the world headquarters of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, police said. Rosenblat was stabbed in the left temple and was in stable condition at the hospital, police said. (REUTERS/Chabad-Lubavitch/Handout )

During a tense standoff, Donohue and two other cops ordered Peters to put down the bloody knife. Peters, a 49-year-old crook who suffered from bipolar disorder, complied at first, placing the knife on a table, police said.

But for reasons nobody will ever understand, Peters suddenly picked the knife back up and charged toward cops, police said.

In a startling video first posted by the Israeli news site 0404, Donohue and the other officers could be heard repeatedly yelling at Peters to put down the weapon.

A photo posted on Twitter of the aftermath of the attack. (@YossiW via Twitter)

Some of the students in the center could also be heard pleading with Peters to give up, and at least one implored the police not to fire. But Peters kept coming until Officer Roberto Pagan fired a single shot that hit Peters in the stomach — and ended the drama on Eastern Parkway.

Peters was so close to Pagan that he nearly toppled onto the officer, sources said.

Rosenblatt, 22, was rushed to the trauma unit at Kings County Hospital and was later transferred to Bellevue Hospital, where he was in critical condition with bleeding on the brain.

Advertisement

"Earlier today, we all felt pretty good that he was stable, but now it seems they found something they didn't know this morning, and he's in pretty serious shape," said Assemblyman Dov Hikind (D-Brooklyn).

Rosenblatt's mother was en route from Israel, sources said. The family lives south of Jerusalem in the Jewish settlement of Beitar Illit in the West Bank.

"I've known him from when he was a child," Beitar Illit resident Menahem Giladi, also 22, said of Rosenblatt. "He had a surgery and he is out now, he is not awake ...We hope and pray that he will get better."

The attack on the nerve center of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement immediately drew comparisons to the slaughter at an Orthodox synagogue in Jerusalem last month by a pair of meat cleaver-wielding Palestinians that left four rabbis dead.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 6 Cop points gun at suspect who stabbed Levi Rosenviat, 22, at Chabad-Lubavitch World Headquarters on December 9, 2014. (0404 via Facebook)

But Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said this appeared to be the work of a troubled man with a long rap sheet — not a terrorist plot.

"There's no indication that the subject ... had any affiliation with any terrorist organization," Bratton said.

Advertisement

Asked why the officers didn't use a Taser on Peters, the top cop said the devices are "only assigned to patrol sergeants." The NYPD has proposed equipping all officers with them.

Peters was emotionally disturbed and "has a history of acting out in other places," said John Miller, the NYPD's anti-terrorism czar.

But in light of the attack, and with Israel in turmoil and Chanukah on the horizon, the NYPD is ramping up security at synagogues and other Jewish institutions across the city, Miller said.

Mayor de Blasio gave kudos to "the police officers who answered the call to this incident."

Donohue, 25, joined the NYPD in 2011. Pagan, 29, has been on the job since 2008. It was the first time Pagan fired his weapon while on the job. His partner, Officer Kevin Haniff, 29, also responded and has been with the department since 2006.

Peters, who lived in Valley Stream, L.I., had a rap sheet stretching back to 1982, with 19 arrests in the city and Nassau County, sources said. His most recent arrest was in 2005, when he was busted for violating an order of protection. It was not clear who filed the order, but most of Peters' arrests were for drug possession, as well as arson and criminal possession of stolen property, the sources said.

Advertisement

Jeffrey St. Clair, an attorney for Peters' wife, Gayle, said the suspect had mental problems and "did have some history of bipolar." But he was also a "devoted father" of two sons, ages 16 and 8.

Neighbor Lorraine McCartney, 80, said she had no inkling that Peters was mentally ill. She said he was a stay-at-home dad who headed "a model family."

While police aren't saying what caused Peters to snap, sources said he left home Monday for a dental appointment at 11 a.m. but didn't show up. Instead, about 5:20 p.m., Peters turned up at the bustling Hasidic center, which is open around the clock.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 4 Police gather in front of 770 Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn early Tuesday morning. (Sam Costanza for New York Daily News)

"I challenged him because he caught my attention, he seemed suspicious," Shimon Liberow recalled. "I asked. 'What are you doing?' He said, 'You got a problem?' I said, 'Yes, out.'"

But Peters would not go at first, Liberow said. He asked, "Could I become Jewish?"

Less than seven hours later, Peters was back at 12:05 a.m. on Tuesday. "Do you have any books in English?" he asked.

Advertisement

Told no, Peters was escorted out, the sources said.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 3 A Yeshiva student from Israel was stabbed in the face by a man who was then shot by Police inside of the Synagogue at 770 Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn on Tuesday December 09th, 2014. 0145. The suspect was taken to Kings County Hospital where he later died. Photos taken 0642. Blood and a Yarmulke are seen on the floor of the Synagogue. (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News). (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News)

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Peters returned about 90 minutes later — and unleashed hell, the sources said.

"The police were screaming, 'Put down the knife, put down the knife,'" a teenage witness said. "The guy, he looks at the police and says, 'Are you cool?' They said, 'Put down the knife!'"

The video shows Peters putting down the knife and walking several feet away while Donohue holstered his gun and turned his head, apparently in response to something another cop said. But Donohue immediately pulled his gun out again when Peters made a beeline for the knife.

A second video posted by 0404 shows the aftermath — Peters lying on the ground, conscious and moaning — as cops put him in handcuffs. He was taken to Kings County Hospital, where he died at 3:15 a.m.

Bratton said the shooting appeared justified.

Advertisement

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH THE VIDEO.

With Reuven Blau, Edgar Sandoval, Chelsia Rose Marcius