Advertisement Witnesses, police differ on deadly officer-involved shooting OCPD investigates 9th officer-involved suspect death of 2014 Share Copy Link Copy

Two Oklahoma City police officers are on paid leave after shooting a man during a foot pursuit.Jerry Nowlin, 39, died at OU Medical Center around 11 p.m. Sunday, about two and a half hours after being shot.The shooting happened near Northeast 26th Street and Kelly Avenue.The officers involved say they tried to pull over a car a couple blocks away but the driver didn’t stop until he crashed his car into a fence at the Heritage Pointe Apartments. Police said the driver was Nowlin.He got out and ran into the complex.Tyrell Bagby claims he watched police shoot his friend.“They said get down on the ground and they pointed their guns at him. When they did that he put his hands up,” Bagby said.Oklahoma City police say that's not the case at all. They report Nowlin was holding a gun and pointed it at them during the foot pursuit.“As the officers were chasing him on foot he did produce a weapon, he did point it at the officers and that is why the officers discharged their weapons at him,” said Capt. Paco Balderrama.Police say not only did they recover the gun, they also found cocaine and marijuana on Nowlin.“I don’t know anything about any drugs. All I know is I saw that man with his hands up,” Cortnie Thomas said. Thomas said she heard police sirens, looked out her window and witnessed the shooting.Nowlin was shot at a spot now marked with a cross and collection of stuffed animals. He lived at the complex.“There’s no sense to this, he had a very big heart,” Thomas said.Bagby said, “This isn’t right and the men that did this need to answer.”Sgt. Christopher Grimes and Sgt. Joshua Castleberry will remain on leave during the investigation. Ultimately, it will be up to the Oklahoma District Attorney to determine if their actions were justified.“We are very confident that after this is all said and done, when we get all the information, all the facts, that the truth is going to speak for itself,” said Capt. Balderrama.Still, people at Heritage Pointe Apartments remain angry.“The police say they're serving and protecting – I can’t tell,” said Bagby.Nine suspects have been killed by Oklahoma City police this year. In New York City, a city of more than six million, the number stands at 12.“If we have one in a year, it is going to concern us because officers sign up to do this job because they want to help people; they want to make the streets a little bit safer for all citizens,” Balderrama said.Balderrama stressed all officers undergo extensive training on the use of deadly force and will only open fire if they feel their lives or the lives of others are on the line.“We would like to avoid these situations altogether, but sometimes it is simply not possible,” he said.A preliminary report from the State Medical Examiner lists Nowlin’s death as a homicide and his cause of death a gunshot wound to the head.We also know the incident Sunday night was not Nowlin’s first encounter with police. He’d previously been to prison on drug and assault charges.Crime footer