Advertisement Driver killed in chase at center of claim against police Lamont Ford Jr., 22, dies in crash in East Hills pursuit Share Copy Link Copy

A driver killed in a crash while fleeing police early Wednesday morning was a man whose name played a central role in a controversial case of alleged police brutality in Pittsburgh.Police identified the crash victim as Lamont Ford Jr., 22, of Wilkinsburg. According to online court records, he was free on bond awaiting trial on gun and drug charges when the crash happened around 2 a.m. in the East Hills.He was also the man Pittsburgh police officers believed they had pulled over in 2012, when in fact they had stopped Leon Ford Jr., who was later shot and paralyzed by an officer."It was pretty much a surprise to all of us at this time," Assistant Chief Maurita Bryant said. "I know at the time when the officers observed the vehicle coming toward them, they couldn't tell who was in the vehicle."VIDEO: Watch Bob Hazen's reportAuthorities said Lamont Ford was driving over 80 mph when he nearly hit a police vehicle with two officers inside near the intersection of Frankstown Avenue and Brushton Avenue. Investigators said the officers chased the car for a few seconds, but quickly lost sight of the suspects."The officers lost sight of vehicle, and then when they come up around the bend, saw that there was a pole in the street and the car was crashed into a building," Assistant Chief Scott Schubert said.SLIDESHOW: Photos of the fatal crash sceneFord was pronounced dead at the scene. A male passenger was taken to a hospital in critical condition.Bryant said investigators don't believe the chase is the cause of the deadly crash, because the suspect was driving so quickly when officers first spotted the car."At this point it does not appear that the officers were at fault in any way," Bryant said.Lamont Ford was a suspected gang member whom police thought they were pulling over in Highland Park the night of Nov. 11, 2012. At that time, he was wanted on a weapons charge and for resisting arrest, court records show.Instead, they had pulled over Leon Ford Jr., 21, of Shaler Township, whose father identified him Wednesday as a distant cousin of Lamont Ford.30158452Leon Ford is suing the city because he was shot by police when he allegedly tried to drive away from his traffic stop. He was found not guilty of aggravated assault, but a mistrial was declared on charges of resisting arrest, escape and reckless endangerment. Prosecutors have not decided whether they will try him again.Police and prosecutors say Leon Ford wrongly resisted and tried to drive away as they sought to confirm his identity at a routine traffic stop. But Ford contends the stop was a pretext because the first officer who pulled him over kept insisting he was Lamont Ford.Leon Ford testified that he provided his license, registration and insurance to the officers who, nevertheless, weren't satisfied that he wasn't the wanted suspect. He says the officer who pulled him over cursed at him and began trying to pull him out of the car with another officer.Ford contends he didn't purposely drive away and that his running car was knocked into gear during the struggle.