The district attorney is charging Officer Bryant Hollaway with misdemeanor negligent homicide.Video: Son of car crash victim speaks out after officer is chargedRelated Article: Elderly woman dies from injuries in officer-involved crashThe charges come after a violent collision with his patrol car and Marinan Reese's car.“If there is a way for this to be a positive influence on that young man’s life, I think my mother would have been the first to raise her hand and say ‘I’ll gladly give my life if God has work to do in this young man’s life,'" Reese's son, Steve, said.The unwavering faith of Steve Reese was passed down to him from his mother.It’s been hard since she died, and, at times, anger has crept in.“Both this young man and the OCPD need to be held accountable," he said.Reese says he’s leaving that decision up to the courts and he’ll continue to put his trust in God. “Those of us that have spent our lives in Oklahoma City know that, most of the time, that the OCPD has our safety and our well-being in mind," Reese said. "We know that God is in control and that He also showed mercy on this young man, easily both of them could have been killed.”

The district attorney is charging Officer Bryant Hollaway with misdemeanor negligent homicide.

Video: Son of car crash victim speaks out after officer is charged

Advertisement

Related Article: Elderly woman dies from injuries in officer-involved crash

The charges come after a violent collision with his patrol car and Marinan Reese's car.

“If there is a way for this to be a positive influence on that young man’s life, I think my mother would have been the first to raise her hand and say ‘I’ll gladly give my life if God has work to do in this young man’s life,'" Reese's son, Steve, said.

The unwavering faith of Steve Reese was passed down to him from his mother.

It’s been hard since she died, and, at times, anger has crept in.

“Both this young man and the OCPD need to be held accountable," he said.

Reese says he’s leaving that decision up to the courts and he’ll continue to put his trust in God.

“Those of us that have spent our lives in Oklahoma City know that, most of the time, that the OCPD has our safety and our well-being in mind," Reese said. "We know that God is in control and that He also showed mercy on this young man, easily both of them could have been killed.”