Two children have died and a nine-year-old is fighting for his life after he took his mother's car for a joyride in rural Mississippi and smashed into a utility pole.

Three-year-old Brayden Traxler and his 13-year-old uncle, Justin Harrell, died after they were ejected from the car as it was being tailed by police in Hillsboro on Friday, WAPT reported.

The boy behind the wheel, Justin's adopted brother, Ty'Jun Thigpen, was rushed to hospital, along with Justin's twin sister, 13-year-old Breckon Harrell.

Ty'Jun is in critical condition and is still fighting for his life, while Breckon was treated for minor injuries and has since left the hospital.

Scroll down for video

Tragic: Three-year-old Brayden Traxler (left) and his 13-year-old uncle, Justin Harrell (right) were killed after Justin's adopted brother took their mom's car for a joyride and crashed into a utility pole

Injured: The driver, Ty'jun Thigpen (left), and Justin's twin, Breckon Harrell (right), were taken to hospital

Authorities say the nine-year-old boy managed to get his mother's car keys and the three other children climbed into the car with him before he drove off, NBC12 reported.

When Ty'Jun neared a mandatory checkpoint on Highway 35 and saw blue flashing lights, he tried to avoid Mississippi Highway Patrol officers by racing away, police said.

But an officer saw the car, a 2003 Mercury Sabe, and chased it to see why it avoided the checkpoint.

The car raced across a supermarket parking lot before veering off the road, overturning and smacking into a utility pole, Sergeant Andy West, a highway patrol spokesman, said.

The vehicle hit the pole so hard that it snapped. None of the occupants were wearing seat belts, West said.

All four children lived in the same house. WAPT reported that the driver was the twins' adopted brother, while the three-year-old was their nephew.

'Any accident that someone loses their life is tragic, but when you're dealing with children it just makes it that much more tragic,' he said.

Scene: When they neared a police checkpoint, they tried to avoid it and sped away. A trooper took chase and the nine-year-old boy lost control of the car and smashed into this utility pole, snapping it

Wreck: Car parts can be seen in the field where the youngsters crashed late on Friday night

Loss: Brayden, left, and Justin, right, were ejected from the car as it was being tailed by police

Authorities have refused to say how the young boy managed to get his keys, although comments on social media suggested the children were being watched by their grandmother but crept out of the house in the night while she was sleeping.

The twins' mother told WAPT that she is not blaming anyone for the crash, which she called a 'freak' accident.

Lee said that if the officer had not chased the car, things could have ended even worse.

'The two that were critically injured - at any time that car it could have been totaled,' he said. 'Luckily the trooper found them.'

MHP is investigating the crash, which occurred about 45 miles east of Jackson, Mississippi.

'They were good people,' Charles Porter, a family friend, told WAPT. 'It's just a tragedy. My heart goes to the parents and their loved ones and I'm sorry that it happened.'