Location of the shooting. (Source: cNews)

Location of the shooting. (Source: cNews)

Location of the shooting. (Source: cNews)

Location of the stabbing. (Source: cNews)

POPLAR BLUFF, MO (KFVS) - Authorities are still investigating a stabbing and officer-involved shooting that happened in Poplar Bluff, Missouri on Friday, December 12.

Missouri State Highway Patrol Cpl. Clark Parrott has identified the suspect who was killed by a Poplar Bluff police officer as 22 year-old Thurrell Jowers.

Jowers' autopsy is set for 9:30 a.m. Monday.

According to the Missouri State Highway Patrol, at around 11:55 a.m. the Poplar Bluff Police Department received a call of a stabbing on Lester Street.

The victim was taken by ambulance to a hospital and later air lifted to a Cape Girardeau hospital in very serious condition.

On Saturday, the victim was upgraded to fair condition.

According to the Missouri Highway Patrol, officers were able to get information on a potential suspect and where he was located.

They responded to an apartment building at 201 South Broadway.

As police officers entered the common hallway of the building, the Missouri Highway Patrol said the officers were confronted by a person with a knife.

Officers ordered the person to drop the knife, but say he did not comply and charged at the officers with the knife.

A Poplar Bluff police officer shot the man, killing him.

At around 4 p.m. officials took down the road block on South Broadway, and it was reopened to traffic.

Officers were interviewing witnesses to get an idea as to what led up to the stabbing.

We've learned the victim and Jowers were acquaintances, but authorities don't know how well they knew one another.

Heartland News talked to a neighbor who lives in the apartment building nearby on Broadway.

"It's a little disconcerting," neighbor Cliff Haught said. "It is. I didn't really know it happened. I got a text from my daughter-in-law who said she heard my building was on fire. So, I ran downstairs and checked my mail and I think every cop in the state was here."

The officer-involved shooting investigation is being conducted by members of the Missouri State Highway Patrol's Division of Drug and Crime Control at the request of the Poplar Bluff Police Department, and the Butler County coroner.

The Poplar Bluff police officer involved in the shooting was placed on administrative leave until the investigation is closed by the Missouri Highway Patrol.

Officers say this is standard protocol.

Copyright 2014 KFVS. All rights reserved.