Chris Ruvo correspondent

Parents of Wrightstown Elementary students packed a meeting Monday evening to express their displeasure with a plan to relocate fifth- and sixth-graders to Newtown Elementary in September.

They expressed concern that the plan to move about 115 children would have detrimental impacts to educational quality, and they fear relocation will lead to a diminished sense of community. They’re worried there will be additional stress on families and the Parent Teacher Organization. They’re troubled that the remaining K-4 students will not get the same enriching experiences as children at other elementary schools. And some even fret that property values will be adversely impacted.

Driving some of the frustration parents feel is a belief that the administration and school board are rushing the relocation plan. On Monday, many parents called the initiative a short-term fix that lacks a broader strategy for accommodating and appropriately educating Wrightstown’s students.

“It’s an in-between solution, a Band-Aid,” said parent Marty Pagliughi. “It doesn’t make any sense.”

Council Rock school board members and administrators are looking to move students so they can close modular classrooms at Wrightstown as part of their goal to shutter all modulars at elementary schools by next school year. Superintendent Mark J. Klein said Monday that it’s not as safe having kids in the temporary classrooms outside the main school facility.

Still, the problem with shutting the trailers at Wrightstown is that the school facility lacks capacity to accommodate the students, said Klein.

Building onto Wrightstown is not an option that could be implemented by next school year, while Klein says that closing the school and distributing students to other schools in the district is not viable at this point.

Therefore, the best option is to relocate two grades to Newtown, where there is adequate space, so that the Wrightstown infrastructure is not “overtaxed,” said Klein.

“We’ll do whatever we can to make this a smooth transition for your kids,” he said. “I have no doubt that you’ll go there and the educational quality will be the same.”

Parents weren’t sold, though. Many asked for a stay of at least one more school year to allow time for further discussion on potential building additions and broader redistricting.

“We have lots of options to explore,” said parent Amy McIntyre, who has presented the district with a plan for how space could be used at Wrightstown to accommodate all students and programs. “That’s what another year would buy us.”

If the district proceeds with making Wrightstown K-4 next year, then administrators and educators should speak extensively with other K-4 schools for insights into how to maximize educational and enrichment opportunities in such a setting, said parent Jennie Schottmiller.

“‘How does an excellent K-4 school run?’” Schottmiller said. “Those are the conversations we should be having.”

Klein said those are discussions district officials will engage in.

In response to parent questions about relocation, Klein said busing would be arranged so that ride times are comparable to what children experience going to and from Wrightstown. In a letter sent to parents, Klein additionally noted that WES fifth- and sixth-grade teachers would move to Newtown, and that Wrightstown students would be assimilated across four classrooms in each grade level.

Klein expects to make a formal recommendation about the relocation question to the school board in early January.