A man fatally shot by deputies after he reportedly kicked in the front door of a home near Perris appeared to be mentally ill and sat at the family’s dinner table while they waited for deputies to arrive, a resident said.

Riverside County sheriff’s officials said deputies shot the man while responding to a reported burglary in progress about 10 p.m. Saturday at a home near Highway 74 and Taylor Road in the unincorporated Good Hope area. He died later at a hospital.

Sheriff’s officials identified him as Charles Gluchacki, 65, whose last known address was in Jurupa Valley.

They have not said why deputies opened fire.

The deputies involved in the shooting have not been identified. They Sheriff’s Department typically conducts a risk assessment before releasing names. They have been placed on administrative leave, a standard practice in shootings involving officers.

The 90-year-old resident, Margaret Fouroux, cried Monday as she described what happened, standing in the still-damaged doorway of the small, aging home she shares with her 69-year-old son. A few steps away, the stucco on the front of her house was riddled with bullet holes near a shattered planter.

Fouroux said she didn’t believe deputies should have shot the man.

“They didn’t have to do that,” she said. “He was no harm.”

Fouroux said she was still up Saturday night when Gluchacki broke into her house. He was already inside before she realized what was going on.

“I just hollered at my son, ‘There’s a man in the house,’ ” she said.

She said it was wet and muddy outside from the rain and Gluchacki’s face was dirty. It looked as if he had fallen. She said the man, who was wearing a thin shirt and thin cotton pants, behaved as if he had mental problems.

“I said, ‘What are you doing in here?’ ” Fouroux recalled. “He said, ‘I’m cold.’ ”

Fouroux wondered why he had come all the way to her house, which sits on a large lot well off Highway 74. She said the man didn’t know where he was and appeared confused.

Her son ordered Gluchacki out of the house, but he wouldn’t go. He grabbed the intruder and sat him down at the table to talk while she called 911. Gluchacki fell asleep while they were waiting for deputies to arrive.

Fouroux said she told the dispatcher that the man appeared to be suffering from mental problems.

Now, Fouroux said, she can’t stop thinking about the shooting and regrets having called the police at all.

“Worst thing I ever did in my life,” she said. “We were just trying to get him help.”

Fouroux said her son noticed the police pulling up and told Gluchacki, “Oh, here’s the police. It’s gonna be alright.”

She said Gluchacki replied, “No, it won’t.”

Fouroux stayed inside but her son was standing with Gluchacki on their front walk as the deputies approached with guns drawn, she said.

“The policeman kept telling him, ‘Get down! Get down!’ ” she said.

Gluchacki didn’t follow orders and he wouldn’t take his hand out of his pocket, she said. As her son headed back up the front porch steps, the deputies opened fire.

Fouroux, who wore a Christian icon on a pendant around her neck, shook her head as tears welled up in her eyes.

“The devil got him,” she said.