Jim Schoettler

A knife-wielding man died late Sunday after being shot when confronted by St. Johns County deputies during a domestic disturbance call, the Sheriff's Office said.

The shooting occurred about 9:15 p.m. in the 900 block of South Black Cherry Drive in a gated northwest subdivision known as Cypress Trace near U.S. 1 and Race Track Road.

The Sheriff's Office said Daniel Torres, 51, was trying to break into his estranged wife's home. The couple had been separated since 2008.

When deputies arrived, they spotted Torres near a broken front window at the home. He'd apparently cut the window screen with a knife and yelled inside for his estranged wife, who was not home, before police arrived.

A female family member and a child were in the home. The woman called the estranged wife to alert her to the break-in. The estranged wife then called 911. The unidentified occupant and the child ran out the back door.

Police said Deputies Christina Dobbs and Kyle Braig confronted Torres, who turned toward them while holding the knife.

The deputies were within 15 feet of Torres and repeatedly ordered him to drop his knife. When he refused to obey commands to surrender, Dobbs fired her rifle, striking and killing him, police said.

The knife, a folding knife with a blade whose tip was apparently broken off in the break-in attempt, was recovered at the scene.

St. Johns County Fire Rescue pronounced Torres dead at the scene.

Caulin Gwaltney, who lives about five houses away from the crime scene, said he heard several shots, checked on his grandmother who was in the home and then went outside. He said police were already in the street and told him to go back inside.

"It was pretty scary at first," said Gwaltney, 18. "All of sudden there were just cops and paramedics pulling in front of my house.

Torres had no criminal history in St. Johns County but some minor arrest in Jacksonville. Police had been to the home earlier this year for another disturbance, but it did not involved Torres.

Detectives with the Sheriff's Office Major Crimes Unit and authorities from 7th Circuit State Attorney's Office are investigating the shooting. Dobbs, with the Sheriff's Office since 2007, was placed on administrative leave, which is routine in such shootings.

Jim Schoettler: (904) 359-4385