Samantha Foster and Steve Fry

From his home, Billy Dee could see the look — a mixture of fear and panic — on the face of the 19-year-old black man who minutes afterward was fatally wounded by Topeka police officers Saturday morning.

The man, identified by Shawnee County sheriff’s Maj. Phil Blume as Joseph Michael Rodriquez, of Topeka, was armed with a handgun and a knife when police located him at S.W. 6th and Buchanan after an attempted carjacking nearby in which a woman sustained knife wounds to her face.

Dee said he saw Rodriquez standing in the street, and when the first two officers pulled up, Rodriquez pulled a gun.

“It was the first two cops — he pulled a gun, and the cars were swerving, and he pulled the gun on both cars,” he said. Then, Rodriquez “pointed it at this blue car, and he swerved onto the street and about hit the cops.”

Suzie Gilbert, marketing and communications director for the city, said in a news release that officers who responded to the attempted carjacking, which occurred about 11:15 a.m. in the 1000 block of S.W. 5th, located the suspect, Rodriquez, at S.W. 6th and Buchanan.

“The suspect was actively pointing the handgun at bystanders and at police on the scene,” Gilbert said. “Officers repeatedly asked the suspect to drop the weapon. The suspect refused these orders, and was then shot by officers on the scene.”

She said four Topeka police officers with a combined 58 years of service on the force were involved in the shooting. They have been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure in officer-involved shootings. The officers’ names weren’t released.

The Shawnee County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the shooting.

Dee said he heard two loud bangs before the multiple rounds that fatally wounded Rodriquez. While Rodriquez was posing a threat, Dee said, he doesn’t think Rodriquez intended to shoot. If he had, he said, he would have fired his handgun when the explosions occurred.

Officers gave Rodriquez “ample time” to comply with their orders to lower his weapon, Dee said, but he questioned whether Rodriquez could have been disarmed without officers firing fatal shots.

“I could see the look in his eye,” Dee said of Rodriquez. “You could tell he was just a frustrated, poor, you know, kid in the ghetto.”

Dee said he heard Rodriquez yell for someone to shoot him.

“He screamed out, he said ‘please kill me,’ when he was right there,” Dee said, gesturing out toward the street. “He said ‘someone please kill me, please,’ and that was all he said.”

Gilbert said Rodriquez had been involved in “several crime scenes throughout Topeka” on Saturday morning.

Police first were called to a domestic disturbance about 9 a.m. in the 400 block of S.W. Tyler, where a suspect reportedly had strangled a woman. A family member who tried to intervene saw the suspect take a knife and a gun from the residence, fleeing on foot before police arrived, Gilbert said.

The carjacking was reported at 11:15 a.m., and when officers arrived, they found a woman whose face had been cut with a knife. Again, Gilbert said, the suspect fled on foot before police arrived.

Minutes later, the man was located and shot. Rodriquez was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

A man and woman, who asked not to be identified, said they witnessed the shooting, saw the armed man pointing a handgun at vehicles passing him on S.W. 6th and heard officers ordering the suspect multiple times to drop the weapon.

The suspect was “actually waving the gun” at cars driving by, the woman said.

“He was holding the gun and turning around,” the man said.

The man said he heard a “shotgun blast” that struck the man in the legs. Police ordered him to drop the gun, the man said. Then the suspect was shot again, the male witness said, and police again told the man to drop the firearm.

The male witness said the suspect, who was facing to the southwest, leaned on his left elbow, swung the pistol in his right arm from left to right, and then police fired a “barrage” of shots.

“The last barrage of rounds was uncountable,” the male witness said.

The man said he thought the time span from the first shot to the last series of shots was “at least” four minutes.

A handgun and a knife with a long blade lay on the street at the scene of the shooting, about 180 feet west of S.W. Buchanan, near a large pool of blood.

Yellow crime scene tape was strung on the north and south sides of S.W. 6th Street and appeared to cordon off the street from S.W. Buchanan almost to S.W. Lincoln. At least nine police and sheriff’s cruisers were posted at the east and west ends of S.W. 6th.

Traffic on S.W. 6th was detoured around that area until about 6 p.m.

The Shawnee County Sheriff’s Office said it is trying to locate several witnesses who were in the area at the time of the shooting. Witnesses are asked to contact Detective Kevin Kasl at (785) 251-2248 or remain anonymous by contacting Crime Stoppers at (785) 234-0007.