MacKenzie Elmer

melmer@dmreg.com

MARSHALLTOWN, Ia. – Relatives of Andrew Worsfold said their son was kind, polite, wildly artistic — and misunderstood.

Police shot to death early Wednesday the 25-year-old Marshalltown native, who officers said was pointing a gun toward them. What they didn't know was that Worsfold suffered from a complicated combination of mental illnesses.

"He heard voices," his mother, Jeanette Heil, told The Des Moines Register on Thursday.

Worsfold had a handgun with him when he confronted two police officers at a Marshalltown intersection at about 3:50 a.m. Wednesday. When he pointed the gun, they shot in self-defense, Police Chief Michael Tupper said.

The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation is reviewing the shooting. It's not known where Worsfold obtained the gun.

Heil said her son had been diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. He had an ultra-active mind — energy that he harnessed through such creative endeavors as drawing, mixing hip-hop jams and break dancing to Michael Jackson from the minute he got home from school until bedtime. It was his dream to dance competitively.

"He could moonwalk backwards and forwards," said Ashley Holloway, 24, Worsfold's sister.

Taven Campbell, Worsfold's 14-year-old nephew, said Worsfold read an entire dictionary and the Bible from cover to cover. He kept a psychology book next to his bed, a subject he'd later study at Marshalltown Community College from 2006 to 2010, though he never earned a degree.

"He said he wanted to learn to figure himself out before being able to help other people," Heil said.

Worsfold's siblings, stepfather and mother each have at least one tattoo he designed and applied.

But about four years ago, the effects of his mental illnesses grew worse, Heil said.

He would put on sound-canceling headphones to help him concentrate. Worsfold took prescriptions and visited specialists in Mount Pleasant, but he started to self-medicate with drugs.

"He thought it helped him focus," Heil said.

A doctor discovered scar tissue on his brain about six months ago, which he likely received from a kick to the head during a fight, Heil said. They believe that may have exacerbated things for Worsfold.

He started to slip backward socially and started hanging with the wrong crowd, Heil said.

"He wanted to fit in like he used to when he was in high school," said Heil.

Worsfold was kicked out of his apartment and moved in with his mother. He progressed there, Heil said, and he was excited at the prospect of starting a new treatment program in Iowa City at the end of this month.

Then he went missing.

The family couldn't find Worsfold for three days. He turned off his phone. Worsfold didn't have a driver's license, and he didn't take his prescriptions with him, Heil said.

They learned at about 8 a.m. Wednesday that he had been shot and died of his wounds.

Worsfold left behind a trove of memories. He mixed songs, one titled "Kill It with Kindness," for his MySpace page.

"Go ahead and hate me so I can just kill it with kindness," he raps on the track.

Writing was "his out, his freedom," Heil said.

A poem Worsfold wrote just before the shooting shows a young man suffering from mental anguish.

My heart's turning black and my brain's contained in a straight jacket. I think I'm going insane but I'm (holding) onto my soul till the devil takes it away.

A later verse:

Don't believe everything you're told. Just hold onto the truth. Nothing is what it seems other than the fact you are who you choose. Unless you're cursed like me and darkness follows till you're considered spiritually consumed.

Holloway said she wants everyone to know her brother "was a good person and had a good heart."

"He didn't want anyone to get hurt," she said.