Police begin to clear the scene of a shooting on I-694 East and Rice Street in Shoreview, Minn., on Dec. 17, 2014. Regina McCombs / MPR News file

A Washington State teenager killed by police on Interstate 694 in Shoreview on Wednesday had a knife and was approaching officers at the time he was shot, according to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

The agency also identified the two officers who shot Johnathon Dean Mar, 18, of Kennewick, Wash., following the discovery of a dead man at a rest stop and a high-speed pursuit.

Maple Grove police said they found 23-year-old Matthew Paul Maffei, whose previous address is unknown, dead of a gunshot wound at a Maple Grove rest stop at about 1 a.m. on Wednesday.

An SUV driven by Mar was seen leaving the rest stop. Police said Mar led them on a high-speed chase that ended when Mar crashed into the median of I-694 just west of Rice Street.

Grow the Future of Public Media MPR News is supported by Members. Gifts from individuals power everything you find here. Make a gift of any amount today to become a Member!

Mar "emerged from the vehicle with a knife and began repeatedly stabbing himself," according to a statement from the BCA. "Mar ignored repeated commands from law enforcement to stop and get on the ground."

Investigators said that Mar then "charged" officers. Hennepin County Sheriff's Deputy Matthew Hagen and Brooklyn Center Police Officer Alan Salvosa opened fire on Mar. He died of multiple gunshot wounds, according to a report from the Ramsey County Medical Examiner's office.

Hagen has served for 15 years in the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office. Salvosa is a four-year veteran of the Brooklyn Center Police Department. Both officers are on administrative leave.

The BCA is investigating Mar's death at the request of the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office and the Brooklyn Center Police Department. The final investigation will be turned over to the Ramsey County Attorney's Office for review.

Maffei's death at the rest stop in Maple Grove is being investigated by the Maple Grove Police Department.