DEER LODGE -- A Deer Lodge police officer responding to a 911 call from an armed suicidal man shot and killed a 28-year-old on Friday night.

Two officers tried to negotiate with Nicholas Tyson Frazier, but he pointed a gun at them, Powell County Sheriff Scott Howard said at a press conference Monday.

The officers, Gavin Roselles and Erik Miller, are on paid administrative leave pending an investigation by state officials. A coroner's inquest will follow.

Frazier died at the Deer Lodge hospital from his injuries.

The shooting happened at about 11:55 p.m. Friday at 113 Fourth St. in Deer Lodge. When officers arrived, Frazier was holding a handgun to his head, Howard said.

The 911 dispatcher and the two officers tried to reason with Frazier, he added.

"There was a good seven to eight minutes of the officers trying to talk him down," Howard said.

This is the first officer-involved shooting in Deer Lodge in at least 29 years, he said. Police initially released few details of the shooting before Monday's press conference.

On Monday, Howard would not say which officer fired or give details beyond what he provided to reporters at the press conference, citing the ongoing query.

"One of the officers fired his duty weapon at the subject and both officers rendered emergency aid until medical services arrived," Howard told the media.

Frazier was home alone at the time. Howard would not say if Frazier's firearm was loaded or if the officers were wearing body cameras at the time.

"Our prayers and thoughts go out to the family," he said. "It's a terrible time of year for them to have to go through this."

The shooting also is difficult for the officers.

"They wish this never would have happened," Howard said. "It's tough on them."

Two hours after the incident, Howard called Lewis and Clark County Sheriff Leo Dutton for advice and potentially assistance from a deputy who had been in a similar scenario.

One happened to be just four blocks away.

Detective Matt Reighard with Lewis and Clark County was there within about five minutes at about 2 a.m.

Reighard said he and the officers didn't speak about particulars of the shooting, as to not impede the investigation, but more about the feelings involved.

"We had similar things go on," he said, adding he not only gave support but offered guidance.

Reighard has found speaking about his incident has helped him in his recovery. Last week, he shared his experience with new cadets at the Montana Law Enforcement Academy.

"Ultimately, it's a lengthy process," Reighard said.

In 2013, Reighard shot and killed an arson suspect who pointed a gun at him. The suicidal man was armed with a semi-automatic handgun. A coroner's jury deemed it justified.

Dutton said he hopes to form a task force of officers like Reighard who can supply outreach for officers who have used deadly force. He and the chaplain in Helena put together training for police and deputies involved in shootings in August. Reighard and 11 other officers from across the state met to share their experiences.

"Our hope is to put together a cadre of peace officers who can respond like Matt did," Dutton said.

"I commend Sheriff Howard in knowing resources to reach out and get for his officers."