Suspect found deceased, with a gunshot wound to the head

A hit-and-run accident was reported in Waverly, near North 144th and Eastbourne streets around 3:48 p.m. Friday.The driver was not seriously injured in the collision.Around 6 p.m. the driver reported he had seen the suspect vehicle in the hit-and-run, a tan-colored Ford Ranger pickup, at a gas station on U.S. Highway 6 in Waverly.A deputy spotted the vehicle in Waverly and attempted to initiate a traffic stop, but the Ford pickup, driven by Willy Timmerman, 22, wouldn't stop for the deputy.The pursuit continued eastbound on Highway 6 at speeds under 60 miles per hour.Once the vehicle entered Greenwood, Nebraska, Timmerman drove into the Greenwood Cemetery. Deputies, assisted by Cass and Saunders County deputies, Nebraska State Patrol and Lincoln police officers attempted to get him to exit the vehicle.After a period of time, Lancaster County sheriff's deputies broke a window in the vehicle to contact Timmerman who was found deceased, with a gunshot wound to the head.A rifle was located in the vehicle.No shots were fired by law enforcement personnel.An internal investigation has been initiated to determine if the pursuit and death followed policy, and the Nebraska State Patrol is conducting an investigation for presentation to a grand jury, which is required when someone dies during the process of law enforcement apprehension. The Cass County Attorney will handle the grand jury because the death occurred in the aforementioned county.An autopsy has been scheduled to determine Timmerman's cause of death.

A hit-and-run accident was reported in Waverly, near North 144th and Eastbourne streets around 3:48 p.m. Friday.

The driver was not seriously injured in the collision.

Advertisement

Around 6 p.m. the driver reported he had seen the suspect vehicle in the hit-and-run, a tan-colored Ford Ranger pickup, at a gas station on U.S. Highway 6 in Waverly.

A deputy spotted the vehicle in Waverly and attempted to initiate a traffic stop, but the Ford pickup, driven by Willy Timmerman, 22, wouldn't stop for the deputy.

The pursuit continued eastbound on Highway 6 at speeds under 60 miles per hour.

Once the vehicle entered Greenwood, Nebraska, Timmerman drove into the Greenwood Cemetery. Deputies, assisted by Cass and Saunders County deputies, Nebraska State Patrol and Lincoln police officers attempted to get him to exit the vehicle.

After a period of time, Lancaster County sheriff's deputies broke a window in the vehicle to contact Timmerman who was found deceased, with a gunshot wound to the head.

A rifle was located in the vehicle.

No shots were fired by law enforcement personnel.

An internal investigation has been initiated to determine if the pursuit and death followed policy, and the Nebraska State Patrol is conducting an investigation for presentation to a grand jury, which is required when someone dies during the process of law enforcement apprehension. The Cass County Attorney will handle the grand jury because the death occurred in the aforementioned county.

An autopsy has been scheduled to determine Timmerman's cause of death.