Officials have now identified a man who was killed by a sheriff's deputy after being badly burned in a fire that destroyed his Auburn-area home during an hours-long standoff.William Everett Corson was 53, the Placer County Sheriff's Department said late Monday afternoon.Corson had been drinking and arguing with relatives, and had sprayed his girlfriend with bear repellant Sunday before he began shooting with a handgun, a shotgun and what sounded like a fully automatic weapon, Placer County sheriff's Lt. John Poretti said.The man fired more than 100 rounds at officers and neighboring houses just outside Auburn on Kemper Oaks Court, officials said Monday.The girlfriend was not seriously injured, and no one else was hurt, Poretti said.The weapons have not been recovered from the burned home.Investigators working at the scene Monday also determined that the fire, which destroyed the house, was started by Corson through the use of an accelerant in a Molotov cocktail-style device.The fire drove the man to a back door, where he was fatally shot by one of the deputies surrounding the home."The guy was going out the back door and shooting in the direction of that officer and others," Poretti said. --Inside KCRA.com:Deputies kill armed man to end standoff in Auburn area

Officials have now identified a man who was killed by a sheriff's deputy after being badly burned in a fire that destroyed his Auburn-area home during an hours-long standoff.

William Everett Corson was 53, the Placer County Sheriff's Department said late Monday afternoon.



Corson had been drinking and arguing with relatives, and had sprayed his girlfriend with bear repellant Sunday before he began shooting with a handgun, a shotgun and what sounded like a fully automatic weapon, Placer County sheriff's Lt. John Poretti said.



The man fired more than 100 rounds at officers and neighboring houses just outside Auburn on Kemper Oaks Court, officials said Monday.



The girlfriend was not seriously injured, and no one else was hurt, Poretti said.



The weapons have not been recovered from the burned home.



Investigators working at the scene Monday also determined that the fire, which destroyed the house, was started by Corson through the use of an accelerant in a Molotov cocktail-style device.



The fire drove the man to a back door, where he was fatally shot by one of the deputies surrounding the home.



"The guy was going out the back door and shooting in the direction of that officer and others," Poretti said.

--

Inside KCRA.com:

Deputies kill armed man to end standoff in Auburn area