A high-speed police chase turned deadly after the car's driver, who was suspected in a shooting, died in a crash Sunday on the city's South Side.

About 9:45 p.m., two men driving a red sedan pulled up to a house in the 8000 block of South Manistee Avenue in the South Chicago neighborhood. The passenger got out of the car and opened fire on the house, hitting a 24-year-old man in the left thigh.

Advertisement

Police said the house is known as a place where members of a faction of the Gangster Disciples congregate.

Chicago police had been staking out either that home or another one on the block when the gunfire broke out, and officers who saw the alleged offenders drive away gave chase, police said.

Advertisement

About 2 miles away, the car collided with a black sedan at South Jeffery Boulevard and East 92nd Street and then hit a tree, police said. The driver was killed and the alleged gunman suffered a broken arm, according to police. He was taken to a hospital for treatment.

Authorities and public records identified the dead driver as Deandre Washington, 24, of the 14900 block of South Langley Avenue in Dolton.

A woman driving the black car was taken to Advocate Trinity Hospital, where she was treated for minor injuries, police said.

Early Monday morning, police remained on the scene of the crash. Debris from both cars -- tires, shattered glass and a bumper -- littered the intersection. Investigators took photos of the mangled red car, which came to rest just over the curb on South Jeffery Boulevard.

Police recovered a gun from the car. No information was immediately available about criminal charges facing the alleged shooter.

The alleged gunman, 24, was currently on probation after being released from the Illinois Department of Corrections in October, records show. The man was convicted in 2011 on charges of aggravated armed robbery and vehicular hijacking, according to court records.

The 24-year-old man who was shot in the 8000 block of South Manistee was taken to South Shore Hospital, where his condition was stabilized, police said. Police said he is a documented gang member.