Xerxes Wilson

The News Journal

A Dover man wielding a BB gun was fatally shot by police Sunday morning, according to the Dover Police Department.

Shortly before 11 p.m. Saturday, Dover police received information from a crisis center noting James Long, 52 of Dover, had indicated suicidal thoughts and a plan to commit "suicide by cop," according to authorities.

The threats were not specific and resembled statements made by Long in the past, according to Dover Police Spokesman Cpl. Mark Hoffman.

Officers arrived at Long's residence at Country Club Apartment complex at 50 Greenway Square shortly before 11 p.m. Police spent the next hour communicating with him by phone and through his door in an effort to have him surrender peacefully, Hoffman said.

Long did not cooperate and the officers entered the apartment shortly after midnight.

"There was numerous concerns, one being his own personal safety, but we are not going to release any other details (now)," Hoffman said, when asked what necessitated the officers entering the residence where Long was alone.

When the officers entered, Long pointed what appeared to be a handgun at the officers prompting them to shoot him twice, Hoffman said.

Long was transported to Kent General Hospital where he was pronounced dead. Neighboring apartments were evacuated for about 45 minutes during the incident.

It wasn't until after Long was shot, police discovered the weapon he was holding was a BB gun designed to resemble a handgun, police said.

Long had booby-trapped his dwelling with a device designed to mix two chemicals that would have created a toxic gas that could have "led to the death of the two officers," Hoffman said declining to provide any other specifics on the design or implementation of the trap.

The officers involved are a 10-year-veteran corporal and a patrolman first class, who is six-year veteran. Both were placed on administrative leave with pay pending an internal investigation. Hoffman said the officers' names are being withheld per the department's regular procedure.

Dover police processed the scene and will lead the investigation into the incident in conjunction with the Attorney General's Office, Hoffman said.

Hoffman said Long had issued similar threats previously and this year had at least four run-ins with police.

In June, police were drawn to Long's residence after he referenced "suicide by cop." They were unable to negotiate with Long, entered his residence, took him into custody and he was eventually committed to a Sussex County mental health recovery center, according to Hoffman.

On two occasions this year, Jones fled police in his vehicle. In one instance, he was charged with driving under the influence. Also in August, Jones was arrested for possession of marijuana, Hoffman noted.