Amanda Van Benschoten

avbnky@nky.com

A masked man carrying a gun walks into a business on a December day, demands cash from a terrified worker, and then flees.

For Allen Berly Todd, Jr., known to his family as "A.J." that scenario twice ended in his arrest. The third time, it resulted in his death.

In the nine years between, however, court records paint a picture of a young man who had become caught up in drugs and crime, but was trying desperately to redeem and rehabilitate himself.

"I now have a positive life structure in place and can benifit (sic) from it in a positive manor (sic)," Todd wrote in October 2007, when he unsuccessfully petitioned a Boone County judge for shock probation, a form of early release. "I want to make my family proud of me not just for them but also as proof to myself that I can indeed live a positive life style."

His father, Chris Meimann of Independence, said Todd had been trying to live that positive lifestyle since his release from prison in June, but was having a difficult time overcoming his past and felony convictions.

"I would like for people to know that he wasn't a monster," Meimann said. "He was a human being with struggles, just like everybody else. He made a mistake, and it haunted him his whole life."

Todd, 27, of Independence, was shot and killed by police Monday morning, just six months after completing a prison sentence on the earlier armed robbery charges.

Florence police say he robbed the Magnuson Hotel on Holiday Place at gunpoint around 1:30 a.m. Monday, fleeing with an undisclosed amount of cash. Officers pursued him, but Todd abandoned his vehicle and a K-9 unit lost his scent on the windy night.

Police knew his vehicle was registered to an Independence address, however, so they alerted officers in that neighboring suburban community to be on the lookout for the robbery suspect.

An Independence police officer spotted Todd walking along Carol Ann Lane around 10:30 a.m. in a wooded area just a mile or two from his parents' home, where he also lived.

What happened after that isn't clear – police won't discuss the shooting except to say that Todd was armed and failed to respond to officers' commands.

He was shot by police and died at the scene. Meimann said he's still haunted by what might have happened if police had called him to help defuse the situation.

Kentucky State Police are handling the investigation into Todd's death; a spokesman did not respond to inquiries on Tuesday. Police have said very little, and have not yet identified the officer who fatally shot Todd.

Nine years ago, however, things ended much differently for him.

Todd was just 18 years old on Dec. 15, 2005 when he robbed the former Citgo gas station on Royal Drive in Fort Mitchell at gunpoint. That time, he got away.

But two days later, Todd also robbed the former Shell gas station near the southern intersection of US 42 and Mall Road in Florence.

Police were already on the alert for his SUV, and they found Todd sitting in the vehicle at the Mall Road Kroger. He surrendered peacefully and later pleaded guilty to the armed robberies, both felonies. He received 10 years for each crime, to be served concurrently.

After about six months in the Boone County jail, Todd was moved into the state prison system in June 2006.

By all accounts, he was a model prisoner: court records show he completed Narcotics Anonymous and other substance abuse programs. He obtained his GED in December 2006 and also took correspondence courses from the local community college. He even played in a prison softball tournament.

But Meimann said prison life was "brutal" for his son.

In his emotional petition for shock probation, Todd wrote of feeling on guard at all times, even while sleeping, due to his young age and slight build.

"I have never imagined that I would be put in a place like this, surrounded by killers and rapest (sic)," he wrote to the court. "...I am not going to be beat around the bush, my prison experience has been hell and I honestly can't see myself spending the next seven years of my life in a place like this.

"I am pleading upon the courts of Boone County and ask for you to belive (sic) in me and grant me one chance to prove to the courts that I cam capable of living a law abideing (sic) life and be a productive member of the cummunity (sic)," he wrote.

Prosecutors opposed Todd's early release, and the judge denied his petition.

After serving the required 85 percent of his sentence, Todd was released on June 14 into Kentucky's Mandatory Reentry Supervision program. He worked with a probation officer to find housing, a job and reintegrate into society. Todd successfully completed that program on Nov. 6.

But Meimann said reintegration was not easy for his son. He found employment, but companies would hire Todd for 30 days and then cut him loose, citing his felony convictions. Meimann said that happened repeatedly, and it wore his son down. Despite the challenges, however, he said his son insisted upon paying child support to the mother of his daughter, upon whom he doted.

Todd's Facebook page is filled with positive messages by him and his friends: bragging about his completion of probation, showing off artwork he did in prison, and messages of support from his grandmother.

It isn't clear what led to him allegedly committing a third armed robbery, fleeing police and failing to lower his weapon when ordered to do so. Meimann speculates his son, beaten down by the challenges he'd faced after prison, might have simply given up.

"He was a person. I'm not saying he didn't have his flaws, but he was not a violent person. He was a star football player, he was a good friend, he was a team captain, he was a good son. He made a mistake – a mistake – when he was young," he said. "Honestly, I think he just gave up the other day: 'Society expected this from me, and I guess that's what I am.'

"If they would have just gave him half a chance, he would have shined like a piece of gold."