A nearly nine-month investigation into a Christmas Eve shooting has cleared an off-duty Palm Beach County sheriff’s deputy of any wrongdoing for shooting and killing his son, prosecutors said Thursday.

Deputy Shatara Shatara said he was defending his wife from being attacked by their 21-year-old son Khamis Shatara, when he shot his son in the head with his service weapon, according to a Palm Beach State Attorney’s Office report.

The shooting happened Dec. 24 last year inside the family’s Delray Beach apartment.

Authorities obtained statements from two family members in the apartment, Khamis Shatara’s brother and sister, and they also documented minor scrapes and bruises on the two parents. It led investigators to find the shooting was justified.

“Given the totality of the circumstances and based upon the testimony of all the witnesses, together with the physical evidence, the 911 call and the documented history of the decedent, it is evident that Shatara Shatara was justified in the use of deadly force in defending Mrs. Shatara,” according to the prosecutors’ report. “This finding is supported by Florida’s Stand Your Ground law.”

The deputy is now back to full duty with the Sheriff’s Office, according to sheriff’s spokeswoman Teri Barbera.

The day of the shooting, Khamis Shatara began arguing with his mother about 7:50 a.m. at their home in The Franklin Apartment Homes in the 300 block of Franklin Club Drive, authorities said.

Shatara Shatara told authorities that he woke up to the sounds of a violent fight, hearing his wife screaming for help.

The wife had tried to stop their son from disturbing the elder Shatara while he slept, but Khamis Shatara grew upset and grabbed his mother’s neck, according to the report.

The commotion caused the deputy to reach for his service weapon. He opened his bedroom door to find his son choking his wife to the point of her losing consciousness, prosecutors said.

After several attempts to stop the attack, Shatara Shatara fired a shot from his sheriff’s service weapon, fatally wounding his son, according to the report.

Both Shatara Shatara and his wife called 911 about 7:55 a.m.

“While Shatara Shatara was cooperative and compliant with the responding officers, he declined to provide a statement to detectives and requested the assistance of the PBA [Police Benevolent Association] attorney for both he and his family,” according to the report.

At one point, Shatara Shatara told investigators his son had a mental illness and wasn’t taking his medication.

Shatara Shatara’s wife told authorities she believed the argument stemmed from Khamis Shatara’s being molested by an extended family member, the report said.

“According to the Shataras, Khamis may have blamed them both for allowing the [extended family member] to live with them and failing to believe him when he reported the abuse,” an investigator wrote in the report.

The day before the shooting, Khamis Shatara had been arguing with his father over a related matter, officials said.

Shatara Shatara hadn’t reported the Dec. 23 attack because Khamis Shatara was on probation and would have been arrested on a probation-violation charge, Shatara Shatara’s wife told investigators in the report. The probation stemmed from a 2014 DUI arrest.

Investigators said Khamis Shatara was detained twice before the shooting under the state’s Baker Act, which is a law that allows mental health professionals and authorities to detain a person for up to 72 hours to determine mentally stability.

One of the instances happened in 2012, when officers responded to Khamis Shatara’s home and he told them he needed to harm his mother and “save her from the fool that tells her lies,” according to the report.

Khamis Shatara told officers about a month later that his parents had used the Baker Act on him in the past, when he tried to tell them about the molestation. A few weeks later, Khamis Shatara called a detective investigating the allegations and said he “no longer wished to pursue the matter,” an investigator wrote in the report.

After last year’s shooting, Shatara Shatara was detained and then released amid the open investigation.

Shatara, who hasn’t spoken publicly about the shooting, couldn’t be reached for comment. A family member declined to comment in a phone call Thursday.

asacasa@tribpub.com, 561-243-6607 or Twitter and Instagram @adamsacasa