The actions of U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers that preceded the death of a 40-year-old El Cajon man at the San Ysidro Port of Entry in December 2014 were a justified use of force, a federal panel has concluded.

The incident at the port’s eastern pedestrian entrance involved the firing of a Taser to subdue 40-year-old Francisco Manuel Cesena, a U.S. citizen who assaulted a CBP officer while in custody, according to the report released Wednesday.

The case was one of four incidents examined by the CBP’s National Use of Force Review Board established in December 2014 to increase accountability and transparency. In all four cases, the reports conclude that the use of force was justified.

Advertisement

The three subsequent cases involved incidents in different parts of the country. One took place on March 19, 2015, in Sumas, Wash., on the Canadian border and involved the firing of a service-issued handgun by a U.S. Border Patrol agent that resulted in a man’s death.

Another occurred when a U.S. Border Patrol agent fired his service rifle on April 11, 2015, in Pima County, Ariz., but there was no evidence of injury. A third took place on May 7, 2015 at a border checkpoint near Waddington, N.Y., when a Border Patrol agent activated “an electronic control weapon dart mode” against a woman who struck an agent and defied orders to get into her car. The woman declined medical treatment and was released.

The San Ysidro incident occurred on Dec. 24, 2014, after Cesena presented himself at the port’s pedestrian entrance without U.S. entry documents shortly after 3 p.m.. Authorities found that Cesena was wanted on a felony warrant for violating the conditions of his probation and release, and was considered dangerous, the report stated.

After they took him into custody, CBP officers discovered a package wrapped in black electrical tape around Cesena’s groin area that included heroin and two syringes, according to the report.

Some hours later Cesena was unrestrained as he waited in a security area while officers processed the paperwork, the report stated. “Suddenly and without provocation” Cesena stood up, ran toward the officer, leaped over a counter and began hitting the officer on the head with his fists, according to the findings.

Officers initially used their fists to subdue Cesena, and ordered him to stop fighting and resisting, “but he did not comply,” the report stated. One officer “activated his electronic control weapon without engaging probes” against Cesena’s right shoulder, but it had little effect, according to the review panel’s account. The officer then “activated his electronic control weapon without engaging probes twice on the subject’s buttocks,” it stated.

Cesena continued to resist “until officers succeeded in restraining him,” the report said. “Shortly thereafter, the subject appeared to stop breathing.” After officers initiated CPR, he was transported to Sharp Chula Vista, and pronounced dead at 7:57 p.m., the report said.

The report said the review board “determined that the application of force, including physical strikes and the use of the electronic control devices...was in compliance with the CBP’s Use of Force Policy.”

The board “also made three operational and policy recommendations that have been referred to appropriate operational and policy officials within CBP for consideration.” A spokesman said that the recommendations were withheld from the public report because they are “law-enforcement sensitive.”

The board is made up of high-ranking officials from CBP, Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The board reviews cases that have completed the investigative process and have been declined for prosecution.

Pedro Rios, director of the American Friends Service Committee’s U.S./Mexico Border Program questioned the thoroughness of the investigation. “It doesn’t provide any details about the abuses he suffered,” he said, and fails to reveal the recommendations “which might provide more information about how use of force policies might be improved and how Francisco Cesena’s death could have been avoided.”

An autopsy concluded that Cesena died of cardiac arrest caused by several factors, including being struck repeatedly with tasers, being restrained face down and methamphetamine and heroin intoxication.

Cesena’s family filed a wrongful death lawsuit in federal court in October 2015 seeking a jury trial and unspecified damages. It alleged CBP officers used excessive force was used to subdue Cesena.

“They kept him face down, with a mask obstructing his face and mouth after he had stopped resisting,” said the family’s attorney, Eugene Iredale. While the board’s report stated that Cesena was struck three times, the lawsuit alleges the Taser was fired four times.

“He had no right to jump over the gate and start punching somebody,” Iredale said, “but the force that was applied was excessive.”

The case is still pending.

Search the Union-Tribune’s database of fatal police shootings in San Diego County since 1980 »

sandra.dibble@sduniontribune.com

@sandradibble