FYN has learned that the suspect Ned Womack has died. Once more detailed information is available FYN will update the story.

Pickens County Sheriff’s Office responded to a 911 call involving a domestic dispute at approximately 9:15 pm on December 24th. Update on the case below.Pickens Sheriff’s Office

MEDIA RELEASE

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Pickens County deputy involved in Shooting

on Christmas Eve

Pickens County Georgia, December 26, 2014: On December 24th at approximately 9:15 pm, a 911 call was received by the Pickens County Emergency Dispatch Center regarding a domestic dispute on Bethany Road.

Deputy Ryne Kirkland and Deputy Travis Curran responded to the residence of Ned Womack and attempted to make contact with him at the front door of the home. While knocking on the door, they heard an individual in the back yard. As they approached the yard, they observed a male subject, later identified as Ned Womack.

When Deputies Kirkland and Curran encounter Mr. Womack, Mr. Womack fired one shot at the deputies and then fled to a nearby residence. Mr. Womack then returned to his back yard where he fired another shots at the deputies. Deputy Kirkland returned fire, injuring Mr. Womack.

Upon the arrival of Emergency Medical personnel, Mr. Womack was transported by helicopter to Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, where he remains in Critical Condition at this time.

The Georgia Bureau of Investigation was contacted and responded to investigate the shooting. At this stage of their investigation, 2 warrants have been issued for Mr. Womack for Aggravated Assault on a Police Officer.

Sheriff Donnie Craig stated that he is proud to report the deputies were not injured during the incident but stated, “My thoughts and prayers are with both deputies and the family of Mr. Womack.” Sheriff Craig also reported that his office is working closely with the Georgia Bureau of Investigations to provide anything that is needed to assist them in completing a thorough investigation.

While the investigation is being conducted, Deputy Kirkland and Deputy Curran have been placed on standard administrative leave. Their leave status is standard protocol for any officer involved

Pickens County Georgia, December 24, 2014: Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents are currently investigating a shooting that occurred in Pickens County.

At approximately 9:15 pm on December 24th, a 911 call was dispatched to Pickens County deputies involving a domestic dispute. Upon their arrival, they encountered a man with a gun in the yard of the residence. The man fired his weapon at the deputies and they returned fire, striking the suspect. No deputies were wounded during the incident.

The suspect was then airlifted from the scene to Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta Georgia.

It is the policy of the Pickens Sheriff’s Office to have the Georgia Bureau of Investigation handle the investigation of any deputy involved shooting.

Due to the active nature of this case and the attempts to make all family notifications, no names or additional details are being released at this time.

A follow up release will be sent as additional information become available.

(Initial Report Below

According to reports the Pickens Sheriff’s Office were dispatched to a residence located in the Bethany Moorings area in Pickens County on Christmas Eve. The deputies arrived at the residence and encountered a man with a gun in the yard of the residence. The man fired his weapon at the deputies and they returned fire, striking the suspect. No deputies were injured during the incident.

The suspect was airlifted from the scene to Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta,Georgia. There is no current information as to what started the disturbance that resulted in the 911 call. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents are currently investigating the shooting. Due to the nature of the case no names or additional information have been released to the public at this time. FetchYourNews will update as additional information becomes available.