HICKMAN COUNTY, KY (KFVS) - The Kentucky State Police Post 1 is investigating a deadly crash near the Hickman/Fulton County line following a pursuit by the Fulton Police Department.

It happened around 1:10 a.m. on Dec. 24 just inside Hickman County.

The preliminary KSP investigation shows Harold D. Nichols, 23, of Rutherford, Tennessee was driving a car in the city limits of when a Fulton Police Department officer tried to make a traffic stop.

The vehicle Nichols was driving had been reported stolen to Kentucky State Police dispatch and the Graves County Sheriff's Department on December 23 from a car dealership in Mayfield.

KSP says Nichols failed to stop for the Fulton officer and a pursuit began.

During the pursuit, Fulton police said the vehicle drove into a parking area near downtown Fulton before traveling eastbound on State Line Road accelerating to speeds nearing 120 mph.

A Kentucky State Police Trooper joined the pursuit on KY 129 as Nichols continued to flee out of Fulton.

Other local law enforcement responded from the Graves County and Hickman County Sheriff's Departments.

Near the Hickman County line, Nichols lost control when he ran off the left side of the road and overcorrected his vehicle before colliding with a tree.

Nichols, who was not wearing a seat belt, was ejected after the vehicle became airborne.

According to KSP, Nichols was pronounced dead at the scene by the Hickman County Coroner's Office. Speed and a failure to be restrained are contributing factors. Toxicology results are pending laboratory analysis.

Kentucky State Police was assisted on the scene by the Fulton County Police Department, Hickman County Sheriff's Department, Graves County Sheriff's Department, South Fulton, TN Police Department, Fulton Fire Department and Tri-city Ambulance Service.

The KSP are continuing their investigation into the collision and death of Nichols.

The Graves County Sheriff's Department is continuing their investigation into the auto theft complaint.

Copyright 2014 KFVS. All rights reserved.