JACKSONVILLE, Fla. – The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office said a man accused in a murder on Friday night was shot and killed 24 hours later by deputies trying to serve an arrest warrant.

Sunday, Director of homeland security for JSO Tom Hackney said the suspect killed was David Andre Scott, 28.

Officers were called out to the Plaza Apartments in Arlington around 11 p.m. Saturday. Police had been searching for the suspect in connection with the killing shooting two friends during a card game on the Northside on Friday night. That victim has been identified as LeRoy Tucker, 32.

Police said Scott made confessions to people throughout the day, which led detectives to get a search warrant and an arrest warrant. About 8 p.m. Saturday, the SWAT team was called to serve the warrants at the Plaza Apartments.

May 2014 booking photo of David Scott

Police said Scott (pictured, right, in May 2014 JSO booking photo) identified himself and told them he wasn't going to come out without a fight, prompting them to call more SWAT team members and police negotiators to the scene.

"So they were keeping a perimeter on the apartment about that time, the suspect threw the front door open, came out screaming and pointing a dark black object at the detectives who were around the front door," said Tom Hackney, director of homeland security for the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. "Fearing for their life, those detectives fired their issued rifle at that subject multiple times, striking him in the torso and the head."

Hackney said Jacksonville Fire Rescue Department was called and found the man was dead. As for the object in the suspect's hand, Hackney said it was not a gun.

"He did use a firearm during the commission of the murder. What this appears to be, and again this is still a fluid thing we're looking through, there's a box that he shoved in a black sock. So it appears that it's a squared off object, in a darkened doorway, yelling what he did."

Police said the swat officers involved were Brad Echelberger, Lee McCranie and Woodrow Crotty. All three have been placed on administrative leave.