A Brevard County Sheriff's Office deputy fatally shot an armed, wanted man at a Cocoa apartment complex Friday afternoon, Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey said.Quentin Smith, 23, was wanted by authorities after shooting nine rounds into his older brother's home Thursday night, Ivey said.Full video: Sheriff discusses fatal deputy-involved shootingSome of the rounds almost hit a 2-year-old and the child's mother who were sitting on the couch.The family called 911 and deputies began searching for Smith on warrants for six counts of aggravated assault and one count of shooting into an occupied dwelling.Images: Man killed by deputy in CocoaAccording to Ivey, agents with the county's Game Over Task Force were able to contact Smith, who told them he wasn't going to be taken alive and talked about "killing cops." On Friday, deputy Richard Clements spotted Smith at an apartment complex on School and Pineda streets and called out to him, according to Ivey.Smith went into an apartment and threatened Clements with a gun, at which point Clements fired, killing Smith, Ivey said."We're not really sure what triggered all of this. We're still trying to put that all together," said Ivey.Most watched: Video shows fire ripping through Pine Hills homeIvey said the incident shouldn't be compared to recent police-involved shooting incidents across the U.S."This is someone who had indicated a suicide by cop concept," said Ivey. "I perceive this as totally unrelated to anything else we see going on in the country."Smith did not have an extensive criminal record.Clements is an eight-year veteran of the department and a decorated combat Air Force veteran. He was placed on paid administrative leave, which is common practice in deputy-involved shootings.The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is conducting an investigation into the use of force, as is standard practice.

A Brevard County Sheriff's Office deputy fatally shot an armed, wanted man at a Cocoa apartment complex Friday afternoon, Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey said.

Quentin Smith, 23, was wanted by authorities after shooting nine rounds into his older brother's home Thursday night, Ivey said.

Full video: Sheriff discusses fatal deputy-involved shooting

Some of the rounds almost hit a 2-year-old and the child's mother who were sitting on the couch.

The family called 911 and deputies began searching for Smith on warrants for six counts of aggravated assault and one count of shooting into an occupied dwelling.

Images: Man killed by deputy in Cocoa

According to Ivey, agents with the county's Game Over Task Force were able to contact Smith, who told them he wasn't going to be taken alive and talked about "killing cops." On Friday, deputy Richard Clements spotted Smith at an apartment complex on School and Pineda streets and called out to him, according to Ivey.

Smith went into an apartment and threatened Clements with a gun, at which point Clements fired, killing Smith, Ivey said.

"We're not really sure what triggered all of this. We're still trying to put that all together," said Ivey.

Most watched: Video shows fire ripping through Pine Hills home

Ivey said the incident shouldn't be compared to recent police-involved shooting incidents across the U.S.

"This is someone who had indicated a suicide by cop concept," said Ivey. "I perceive this as totally unrelated to anything else we see going on in the country."

Smith did not have an extensive criminal record.

Clements is an eight-year veteran of the department and a decorated combat Air Force veteran. He was placed on paid administrative leave, which is common practice in deputy-involved shootings.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is conducting an investigation into the use of force, as is standard practice.