Crime & Safety WATCH: Cops Who Shot Man In Video Accused Of Allegedly Abusive Behavior Warning: Graphic video. "If you reach for something, you're going to be f---- dead!" the cop yells at the man, who had a prison record. Reply

The shooting of a man with raised hands during a traffic stop is stirring anger in South Jersey.

Some of the reasons why: The cops have been accused of unfounded drug searches, pepper spraying a handcuffed man and the failure to follow proper protocol when investigating an armed robbery, according to nj.com. Those accusations were eventually dismissed or settled at a later date. Police work is dangerous, the city’s chief said, but the two officers at the center of last month’s fatal shooting were well known to Bridgeton residents.

According to a quote in NJ.com: “Officer Days’ false accusations have caused me to spend an unnecessary amount of time (7 days) stressing in Cumberland County Jail and loss of time out of my life and my children’s lives,” wrote Tarrion Milledge in a Dec. 9, 2014 complaint lodged against Officer Braheme Days.

On the evening of Dec. 30, Days, 34, wThe video from a police dashboard camera, released Tuesday, shows Bridgeton officers Braheme Days and Roger Worley in a Dec. 30 stop of a Jaguar with a driver and passenger inside. Police say the car was stopped for rolling through a stop sign, but the situation quickly escalates after officers apparently discover a gun in the glove compartment. Days, standing outside the passenger door with his gun drawn, yells at the passenger, Jerame Reid, “Show me your hands!”

“If you reach for something, you’re going to be f---- dead!” he yells in the video. When Reid gets out of the car with what appear to be his hands in front his chest, both Days and Worley open fire.

Reid, 36, had spent 13 years in prison for shooting at a State Police trooper, and was arrested in 2014 on drug charges, according to police records reviewed by NJ.com. Days, the publication reported, was one of the arresting officers in the incident. The shooting has led to protests in Bridgeton, about a 45-minute drive south from Philadelphia, and comes after months of angry demonstrations and rallies over the killings of unarmed black men by white police officers in New York City and Ferguson, Mo. Days is black, and his partner is white. The passenger was black, and so was the driver, Letroy Tutt, according to the New York Post. Both officers have been placed on leave and the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office is investigating, “The video speaks for itself that at no point was Jerame Reid a threat and he possessed no weapon on his person,” Walter Hudson, chair and founder of the civil rights group the National Awareness Alliance, told the Post. “He complied with the officer and the officer shot him.”

The video was released through open records requests from the South Jersey Times and the Press of Atlantic City. It shows the police stop beginning calmly enough, with Days approaching the passenger side, introducing himself and telling the driver that he has been pulled over for running a stop sign. A few seconds after Days asks the driver to get his driver’s license, the officer is seen pulling his gun. “Show me your hands, show me your (expletive) hands!” Days says. When Worley approaches the driver’s side with his gun drawn, the driver extends his arms out of the window.

“Get ‘em out the car, Rog. We’ve got a gun in his glove compartment,” Days said. The officer continues to shout. “I’m telling you, I’m telling you! Keep your (expletive) hands right there. Eh, eh, Jerame, you reach for something, you’re going to be (expletive) dead,” Days said. Days shouts, “He’s reaching! He’s reaching!” Unclear is what Reid was doing inside the car, but when he gets out of the car with what appear to be his hands in front his chest, he’s shot dead.