wash-county-sheriff.jpeg

(File/WCSO)

Two bullets struck an Aloha man when Washington County sheriff's deputies fired on him while responding to a domestic assault last week, the state medical examiner's office said Monday.

Lewis Lee Lembke, 47, died of a gunshot wound to his chest, said Dr. Christopher Young, who conducted the autopsy. The other bullet hit Lembke in one of his extremities, but Young would not say where.

The deputies involved have not been identified. They remain on paid administrative leave, which is standard practice after a police shooting.

The deputies will be interviewed Thursday, said Sgt. Bob Ray, a sheriff's office spokesman. Scheduling conflicts caused the delay, he said, which is longer than typical.

Authorities have not said how many deputies shot at Lembke or how many shots they fired. The shooting occurred after deputies responded for the second time in a little over an hour to the apartment that Lembke shared with his wife.

Three deputies initially went to the Masters Apartments, 4519 S.W. Masters Loop in Aloha, at 1:12 a.m. Friday. His wife, Harriet, reported that he was possibly overdosing on alcohol, stating he was "very ill and unresponsive," Ray wrote in a news release. The deputies helped firefighters while they tried to treat Lembke.

During the encounter, Lembke became "more lucid," Ray said, and refused further medical treatment. He had not committed any crimes, Ray said, so deputies and firefighters left at 2:17 a.m.

Four minutes later, Lembke's wife again called 911, this time reporting that her husband choked and assaulted her. Lembke, angry that his wife had initially called for help, pushed her down, strangled her and threatened to kill her, Ray said.

She told dispatchers that there were weapons in the apartment, but they were not out.

Harriet Lembke locked herself in the bathroom until the same three deputies arrived, Ray said. Following a dispatcher's instruction, she answered the door for the deputies, and they briefly started talking to her in the living room.

Deputies called out to Lewis Lembke, asking him to come out and talk to them. He appeared from a doorway of a second bedroom, used as an office, holding a semi-automatic handgun, Ray said. Deputies ordered Lewis Lembke, who was partially behind the doorway, to drop the weapon.

Instead, he pointed the gun at the deputies and they fired at him, Ray said. He died at the scene. His wife was still in the living room.

"There were no indicators that he was going to be violent with us before he emerged with the gun in his hand," Ray said.

He did not know how far deputies were from Lewis Lembke at the time of the shooting, but said they were "very close." Ray said Lewis Lembke's gun was loaded.

Investigators found that part of a deputy's bullet lodged in the front of Lewis Lembke's handgun, below its barrel, showing that the gun was pointed directly at deputies, Ray said.

"There's clear evidence of that," he said.

The Lembkes had been married for nearly 12 years, Ray said, and had lived together at the apartment for seven. The two did not have a documented history of domestic violence, Ray said.

Deputies found that Lewis Lembke had a large amount of ammunition on him at the time of the shooting, Ray said. On the floor of his office, investigators found a shotgun and box of ammo for the weapon, Ray said.

The Washington County Major Crimes Team is investigating the shooting.

It is the first officer-involved shooting and homicide in Washington County this year. It is also the first involving Washington County deputies since January 2013, when four deputies, along with six police officers from Forest Grove and Hillsboro, exchanged gunfire with an off-duty Hillsboro cop at his Forest Grove home.

The most recent police-involved shooting in Washington County occurred Nov. 20, when two Beaverton officers fatally shot 29-year-old Chelsea Fresh after they say she pointed a rifle at them. Authorities later learned that the weapon was not loaded.

503-294-4049; @rwoolington