Jason Anderson Record Staff Writer

STOCKTON — Authorities on Wednesday identified the man who was fatally shot by Stockton police Tuesday, released the names of the officers involved in the shooting and provided an update on the condition of a police dog that was stabbed by the suspect.

The Stockton Police Department identified the suspect as Patrick Wetter, 25, a documented gang member who was arrested twice last summer, said Office Joe Silva, a police spokesman. In July, Wetter was arrested for carrying a concealed dirk or dagger and resisting arrest, authorities said. In August, he was again arrested for carrying a concealed dirk or dagger, investigators said.

Wetter was shot multiple times by two police officers after he broke into a home on Howard Drive in southwest Stockton, stabbed a police dog and advanced toward the officers with a knife, Silva said. Officers administered first aid and called for medics, but Wetter was pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said.

Silva said officers encountered Wetter in a hallway and discovered that he was trying to force entry into a bedroom where a man, woman and six children, ages 5 to 15, barricaded themselves after Wetter kicked in the front door. Wetter refused to comply with officers’ instructions, kicked and stabbed a police dog, raised the knife above his head in a threatening manner and then moved toward the officers, Silva said.

At the scene, investigators recovered a curved folding knife with a wooden handle and a pocket clip, Silva said. The blade appeared to be 3 to 4 inches long, he said.

“One of the most inherent dangers of policing is being confronted by an armed suspect in close proximity like our officers were yesterday inside that residence,” Silva said. “We’re very fortunate our officers took appropriate action because nobody knows what would have happened if that armed suspect had broken through that barricaded door and gone into the bedroom where the family was hiding.”

The officers involved in the shooting were Gabriel Guerrero, a canine handler who was hired in 2007, and Mark Afanasev, who was hired in 2014. Both were placed on a three-day paid administrative leave, Silva said.

The injured police dog was identified as “Rocky,” a 6-year-old Dutch shepherd who has been working the streets of Stockton for five years, authorities said. “Rocky” was taken to a veterinarian in Stockton and then transferred to an animal hospital in Sacramento for possible surgery, police said. Veterinarians determined that “Rocky” did not need surgery and would survive his injuries.

“Rocky” remained at the animal hospital Wednesday night for additional observation and treatment, but is expected to make a full recovery, Silva said.

“The entire police department is very relieved that ‘Rocky’ is getting the best medical treatment that an injured dog could receive,” Silva said. “We want to give a special thanks to the medical staff for taking good care of him. ‘Rocky’ is a fighter and he will get through this.”

Henry Yuson, 23, whose parents own the home where the shooting occurred, said his family was still “shaken up” on Wednesday. The home is occupied by Yuson’s mother, father, 5- and 8-year-old sisters and four foster children, ages 11 to 15.

Yuson said his parents were interviewed by investigators at the police station until about 1 a.m. Wednesday and that his two young sisters were taken to a therapist later in the day.

“They’re too young to see all that,” Yuson said. “My parents had them hidden in a closet, but they heard everything.”

Contact reporter Jason Anderson at (209) 546-8279 or janderson@recordnet.com. Follow him at recordnet.com/crimeblog and on Twitter @Stockton911.