The Republic | azcentral.com

The man killed in a shootout with Chandler police on Monday afternoon had outstanding warrants and was considered armed and dangerous before he shot at Chandler officers, a police spokesman said Tuesday.

But court records and police reports reveal a brief criminal history for Kenneth Arnold Buck that centered mostly on drug-related allegations before police said he engaged in a rolling gun battle with officers on Monday.

Buck, 22, was driving a black Dodge truck with fictitious out-of-state license plates at about 1 p.m. Monday near McQueen Road and Galveston Street when officers determined he fit the description of a burglary suspect, said Sgt. Joe Favazzo, a Chandler police spokesman.

Officers tried to stop the truck, but Buck drove northbound on Hamilton Street before running a red light at Ray Road, Favazzo said.

Buck was driving westbound on Knox Road when he slid open the truck's rear window and began firing at Chandler officers, Favazzo said. Buck then brought the truck to a stop on Knox Road just east of Arizona Avenue and continued firing at officers, Favazzo said.

Chandler police returned fire, striking Buck several times and killing him at the scene, Favazzo said.

Three officers were involved in the shooting and none were injured.

In April 2012, Buck was homeless when he robbed a church's music teacher while armed with a knife before giving all the belongings back, police records state.

Buck entered a church near Sweetwater Avenue and Cave Creek Road to look for a bathroom then presented a knife and ordered the music teacher to relinquish his wallet, keys and phone.

The teacher chased after Buck and confronted him on a city bus where Buck initially complied by returning all the belongings and throwing the knife on the ground, court records show.

Buck then became aggressive by taking a fighting stance with both fists up while proclaiming he was a member of a gang in California before his mood switched again and he cried, court documents state.

"I don't know what came over me, I just did it," said Buck, who told police he was attending a nearby football game and had no intentions of robbing anyone.

Buck served three months in a Maricopa County jail and three years of probation.

In January 2013, he was arrested for possession of marijuana after officers were called to a bus stop with reports of a fight.

While Buck was explaining himself, the officers smelled alcohol on his breath and noticed he could not stand balanced. Buck blew a .190 on a portable breath test and was found to be carrying a baggy of marijuana in his pocket, police reports state.

He was sentenced to an additional two years of probation.

A warrant for Buck's arrest was issued on Nov. 21st after his probation officer said Buck had failed to receive approval to change residence, did not submit the last nine drug tests, did not appear to the Adult Probation Department within 72 hours of incarceration and did not pay any fines issued by the court, court documents state.

Buck also had a criminal history in California with allegations of shoplifting and petty theft, according to court records.

Favazzo said despite what might appear to be a non-violent criminal history, Buck was obviously armed Monday and willing to shoot officers.