Police investigate a fatal shooting in Rosemont on Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Joseph Caffarello, 31, was killed in the incident. (Stacey Wescott, Chicago Tribune)

Authorities have decided not to file charges against an off-duty Rosemont police officer who fatally shot his brother-in-law following a domestic dispute.

Officer Rick Drehobl, a four-year veteran of the Police Department, had been put on desk duty following the death of Joseph Caffarello, 31, village spokesman Gary Mack said.

Advertisement

"After a very thorough investigation by the Illinois State Police and a subsequent legal review of the facts of this case, the Cook County state's attorney's office has determined that there is insufficient evidence to bring criminal charges in this matter," prosecutors announced in a written statement. A spokesman for the office said he could not explain the justification behind the decision.

The shooting occurred around midday Jan. 7 after a domestic incident between Caffarello and his wife, Deanna Caffarello, at their home in a gated community in Rosemont, Mack said.

Advertisement

Drehobl is Deanna Caffarello's brother, and they are the children of retired police officer and park board President Richard Drehobl and Village Clerk Debbie Drehobl.

After the domestic dispute, Rick Drehobl drove Deanna and her baby away from their home, but about four blocks away, Caffarello drove toward them in their lane in the 6100 block of Scott Street, and the vehicles collided, according to police reports.

Drehobl shot Caffarello after that collision, Mack said.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

There were no serious injuries in the crash, he said, adding that Drehobl swerved to minimize damage.

An autopsy determined that Caffarello died of a gunshot wound to the chest, and his death was ruled a homicide, according to the medical examiner's office.

In a statement shortly after the shooting, Rosemont Public Safety Director Donald Stephens III called the shooting "an unfortunate tragedy and the department will cooperate and assist with the Illinois State Police's investigation."

The decision that no charges will be filed means Drehobl will return to regular patrol duties, Mack said.

The incident followed a history of domestic disputes between the Caffarellos that had caused her family to fear for her safety, Mack said.

Advertisement

rmccoppin@tribpub.com

Twitter @RobertMcCoppin