Members of the bomb squad check out a parked SUV at Port Columbus Airport on Wednesday after police shot a man in Columbus, Ohio. (Chris Russell/AP)

A 41-year-old Ohio man armed with several knives tried to buy a plane ticket with a fake ID before being gunned down by police after lunging at an officer with a blade outside the Columbus airport, police said.

Hashim Hanif Ibn Abdul-Rasheed had parked illegally outside the ticketing terminal and was acting bizarrely as he tried to buy a ticket to an undisclosed location Wednesday afternoon. He showed off a woman's ID to try and make the buy at one point before he was rebuffed, cops said.

Advertisement

Airport police called a tow truck to remove the illegally parked vehicle from the departures lane just before 1 p.m. Wednesday when Abdul-Rasheed returned.

"The man initially spoke with the officer then suddenly produced a knife and lunged at the officer, attempting to stab him," the Port Columbus International Airport said in a statement. "The officer fired at the suspect, who momentarily dropped to the ground and then got back up and continued advancing towards the officer. A backup officer responded at which point the suspect quickly moved towards him with the knife forcing the officer to retreat backwards towards the terminal entrance where a third officer was positioned. The third officer shot multiple times, striking the suspect, ending the attack."

Advertisement

Emergency vehicles converge at the ticketing level at Port Columbus International Airport after an airport police officer shot and killed Hashim Hanif Ibn Abdul-Rasheed after a confrontation Wednesday in Ohio. (Andrew Welsh-Huggins/AP)

When cops searched Abdul-Rasheed's body, they discovered "additional knives." Police called in a bomb squad to investigate the car and a search turned up "suspicious items," officials said.

The entire incident was captured on surveillance video, police said. The shooting remains under investigation.

The disturbance caused some delays of just over an hour and an area of the ticketing lobby was closed off as the car was searched for explosives.

Terri DiBartolomeo (center r.), of Dublin, Ohio, sits down and reads a book among a large throng of would-be travelers on Wednesday. The main concourse of the Port Columbus Airport was filled with stranded travelers after a shooting in front of the north entrance caused a partial shutdown. (Chris Russell/AP)

Police haven't described the man's motive.

"At this point this is just a violent encounter between an armed man and the officers here," Columbus Police Sgt. Rich Weiner told reporters.

With News Wire Services

sgoldstein@nydailynews.com