Grant Rodgers and Ben Rodgers

grodgers@dmreg.com

The last time Heidi Brickman saw her older brother, he was angrily getting out of their car late Monday afternoon along Army Post Road near the Des Moines airport.

The siblings were feuding over his lifestyle, and Heidi, 22, made the difficult choice to kick Nicholas Brickman out of a house she was renovating on the city's south side. Nicholas, 30, had been living there after his release from the Polk County Jail a week earlier.

On Wednesday, around 3:20 p.m., as Heidi Brickman was grocery shopping at Wal-Mart, her father called her in tears. Des Moines police had just told the family that Nicholas was dead, shot by an officer after a bank robbery and carjacking that morning.

"I just ran through the store," she told The Des Moines Register. "I dropped all of our stuff and got in the car and came (home)."

Senior Police Officer Scott Newman fatally shot Nicholas Brickman in the torso behind an electric supplies wholesaler in an industrial neighborhood of the East Village after police say Brickman pointed a handgun at another officer.

The shooting ended a chase that started shortly after 9 a.m. Wednesday, when Brickman walked into a credit union on Southeast 14th Street and held a gun to a bank teller, saying "Give me everything you have," according to a police report. Brickman then used the handgun to carjack an SUV from two men on Indianola Road while being chased by police.

Des Moines police Thursday wouldn't release the number of shots Newman fired, pending the investigation, said Sgt. Jason Halifax, a spokesman for the department. Newman is on administrative leave, which is standard department policy.

Nicholas Brickman's death has left his sister and mother with a host of questions.

They said they don't know where the carpenter, ironworker and all-around handyman got the handgun police say was used in the robberies. And they're trying to reconcile the way he died with their memories of him as an enthusiastic, hard worker who enjoyed fishing — even as he struggled with personal problems.

"I'm just in shock and disbelief," said Dawn Brickman, his mother. "I don't know what happened to lead up to what happened. ... I was hoping he would turn over a new leaf."

For four years, Nicholas Brickman operated a tree-cutting and trimming service, his family said. Heidi Brickman said she would help him pull away branches he cut from job sites, just because she wanted to "hang out with him."

READ:How robbery suspect ended up fatally shot | Iowa prosecutors differ on grand juries in police shootings

In September, when Heidi Brickman gave birth to her daughter, he was there to celebrate. She has a picture on Facebook of her brother in the hospital, smiling and holding his infant niece.

But Nicholas Brickman also struggled with methamphetamine use and had a history of violent crime, according to his mother and online court records.

Court records show seven felony cases filed against him in Polk and Warren county district courts. In February 2004, Des Moines police arrested Nicholas Brickman on assault charges, claiming he hit a man with a baseball bat and pushed a woman from a car.

"He's had all kinds of little issues that ended up being bigger issues," Dawn Brickman said.

More recently, Nicholas Brickman pleaded guilty in September to theft and attempted burglary charges filed by the Des Moines and Johnston police departments. Des Moines police arrested Brickman after he punched and kicked open a man's front door and then punched him on Oct. 6, 2013, according to a criminal complaint.

District Court Judge Karen Romano gave Brickman a suspended seven-year prison sentence and put him on probation for two years.

On Oct. 31, a probation officer filed a notice that Nicholas Brickman had violated his probation. Heidi Brickman said her brother was living in an apartment with her, but failed to tell his probation officer he was no longer living with his parents, according to court documents.

Nicholas Brickman also failed a drug test, testing positive for THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, and he wasn't attending court-ordered treatment, the officer noted. Additionally, the Iowa Department of Human Services was investigating Nicholas Brickman for fraudulently getting food stamps.

For those violations, Brickman was thrown in the county jail Nov. 18.

On Dec. 29, he was released after District Court Judge Carla Schemmel sentenced him to 14 days, with credit for the time he'd already served. While in jail, he'd undergone a substance-abuse evaluation, according to court records.

After he got out, Nicholas Brickman moved into his sister's house and helped with renovations, cleaning mold from the basement and knocking down walls, she said.

"He was good at construction and carpentry," Heidi Brickman said.

But the living situation became tenuous when Brickman and his sister began arguing, she said.

Brickman was frustrated by the loss of a girlfriend, and his family was disappointed with choices he'd been making, including using drugs, she said. On Monday, Heidi Brickman told her brother he could no longer live at the house.

Her decision "humiliated" him, she said. He'd already been asked to leave his parents' house before returning to jail in November, according to court documents.

Heidi Brickman urged her brother to stay with an uncle. She drove him to the Central Iowa Shelter and Services homeless shelter on Mulberry Street in downtown Des Moines, but he refused to stay there.

Heidi last saw her brother around 5 p.m. Monday when she dropped him off along Army Post Road. On Tuesday — the day before his death — he called her, using the phone of a woman he was with, still angry with what she had done.

"(He) was mad at me for making him leave," Heidi Brickman said. "He sounded very stressed and anxiety-ridden and just not himself."

Brickman's mother said she suspects her son's "personal demons" got the better of him in his final hours.

But as she and family plan his funeral, she said she is thankful no officers or civilians were hurt in the chase that ultimately ended her son's life.

"I'm just so grateful for that," she said.

Nicholas Brickman timeline

Oct. 6, 2013: Brickman faces multiple charges after Des Moines police arrest him for assaulting a man. Brickman broke open the door of the man's house and punched him, according to court documents.

Sept. 29, 2014: Brickman pleads guilty to charges of attempted burglary and theft filed against him by the Des Moines and Johnston police departments. He receives two years probation from District Court Judge Karen Romano, who suspends a seven-year prison sentence.

Oct. 31: A warrant is issued for Brickman's arrest after his probation officer notified the court that he tested positive for THC, the active ingredient in marijuana. Brickman also is under investigation for using fraud to obtain food stamps, according to court documents.

Nov. 18: Brickman is booked into the Polk County Jail.

Dec. 29: District Court Judge Carla Schemmel finds Brickman guilty of contempt and sentences him to 14 days in jail, with credit for time served. He's released from the Polk County Jail and moves into a house being renovated by his sister.

Jan. 5: Brickman's sister tells him to leave the house because of arguments, then drops him off alongside a road around 5 p.m.

Jan. 7: Brickman attempts to rob a credit union on Southeast 14th Street just after 9 a.m., according to a police report. He is killed by a Des Moines police officer after raising a handgun toward another officer who was pursuing him.