OLD BRIDGE – A 75-year-old man killed by police inside his home – after he allegedly wielded a knife at his family and a police officer – is being described as quiet and kind, though suffering from serious health problems, his neighbors say.

“There was never any trouble that we saw,” said Pat Corbitt, who has lived nearby with his wife for 40 years.

Police were called shortly before 6 a.m. Wednesday to 40 Cedar Grove Place on a report of domestic violence. They say Talbot Schroeder was armed with a kitchen knife.

The elderly man had cut a family member with the knife and was threatening another family member when two Old Bridge police officers walked into the house, according to the Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office.

The officers urged the distraught man to put down his weapon, the prosecutor said.

When he refused, an officer shot him one time.

Schroeder died at the scene.

The injured family member, who was not identified, was taken to a local hospital and treated for a wound, which authorities said was minor. Another family member was not hurt.

NJ Advance Media could find no criminal record for Schroeder. And neighbors say before Wednesday they never saw police at the house.

A man who lives across the street said he spoke with Schroeder about his health problems a couple of year ago as Schroeder’s granddaughters sold trinkets in front of the house.

“He was sitting outside with his grandkids,” said the man, who declined to give his name. “We had a nice conversation. They seemed like a very nice family.”

“His health issues gave him a lot of pain,” the neighbor added. “He walked with a cane.”

Each summer the Schroeders set up a tent in their yard for barbecues, neighbors said.

The family has a back deck with patio furniture. In the back yard are a trampoline and swing set.

A woman living nearby said Schroder once invited her to bring her young children by for barbecue.

“My son was similar in age to his granddaughter,” said the woman. “They were very nice to us. They seem to have been a very nice family. I have no idea how this would have happened.”

The woman, who asked that her name not be published, said she hasn't told her children about the shooting. She said, “I’m a little worried about what to say.”

Schroeder appeared to have health problems, though she wasn't sure about the nature of his illness.

“As he left the barbecue he hobbled into the house,” she recalled.

Schroeder lived with his wife and adult son, according to neighbors.

Another son, who does not live in the home, could not be reached for comment.

The son's wife, Cynthia, said it's possible Schroeder's poor health might have played a role in what happened.

“It could have,” Cynthia Schroeder said. “But we don’t know. We just don’t know.”

Schroeder’s death is the third police-involved shooting in Middlesex County in a little over a year.

In December 2013, Perth Amboy police shot and killed Dixon Rodriguez , 32, during a domestic dispute. Officers said the emotionally disturbed 32-year-old came at them with a kitchen knife. Rodriguez's family later sued the police, claiming officers planted a knife on the body after the shooting.

In November 2013, police shot and killed South Brunswick resident Andrew Murnieks, 28, after they say he opened his front door with a knife in hand. Investigators said Murnieks was an emotionally disturbed person who was off his medications.

Anthony G. Attrino may be reached at tattrino@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @TonyAttrino. Find NJ.com on Facebook.