A photo from Christina Prestianni's Facebook page.

NUTLEY — Authorities have identified the couple killed in a murder-suicide yesterday.

The Essex County Prosecutor’s Office confirmed today that Christina Prestianni, 37, and Christopher Minichini, 38, were found yesterday in the 300 block of Hillside Avenue, both suffering from apparent gunshot wounds. Authorities said they believe Minichini shot his live-in girlfriend, and then himself in an apparent murder-suicide.

The investigation into the deaths is ongoing, and pending autopsy results, authorities said.

Chief Anthony Ambrose also confirmed Friday that Minichini was 7-year veteran New Jersey state corrections officer.

Authorities said the couple lived together, but did not have any children together.



According to her LinkedIn and Facebook profiles, Prestianni owned and operated Pupcake Dog Grooming and Bakery in West Caldwell.

“Everyone that knew her loved her. She was beautiful on the inside and out,” a friend who said she attended Bloomfield High School with the victim and asked not to be identified, said of Prestianni. “She had a love for animals like no other.”

Friends flocked to Facebook to express their grief at the news of her death.

"This makes no sense...we have lost a truly beautiful human being...your smile and your sweetness will never be forgotten by all, whether we have two legs, or four," one friend wrote.

Another added, "RIP Christina. You were a wonderful person who's life was cut too short."

Friends have also created a GoFundMe campaign to raise money to pay for her funeral.

"A sudden tragedy took away a great daughter, sister and friend that everyone adored," the page reads. "She will be truly missed. Her kindness and love for people and animals will never be forgotten. She was full of life and was taken too soon from our lives."

In five hours Friday morning, the fund raised more than $3,500.

Jessica Mazzola may be reached at jmazzola@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @JessMazzola. Find NJ.com on Facebook.