Matthew Casey

The Republic | azcentral.com

A 42-year-old man has died from injuries he suffered after Scottsdale police shot him Thursday when officers said he tried to ram his way out of a trap in a grocery store parking lot, according to Scottsdale police.

Dewayne Carr died Monday afternoon at a hospital from complications due to gunshot wounds, said Sgt. Ben Hoster, a Scottsdale police spokesman. Police said Carr was the driver of a white SUV authorities had tracked to the Safeway parking lot as part of an investigation into a credit-card-fraud ring.

Surveillance video released Friday showed at least six police vehicles converging on the SUV. Officers exited their vehicles and quickly approached the SUV. Police said Carr put the SUV in reverse and slammed into a police vehicle. Several seconds passed before the SUV pulled forward slightly, was put in reverse, and again rammed a police vehicle.

Hoster said Friday that Carr had survived surgery and was in stable condition.

Carr, identified through fingerprints, had a criminal history in Arizona and Illinois that included armed robbery, aggravated assault, fleeing police and drug charges, Hoster said.

His accused accomplices, Elbert Jonta Radcliff, Dantrice Sheliann Sanford and Shentada Shamone Smith were arrested on suspicion of several crimes, including identity theft and fraud, Hoster said. All three are Chicago residents.

Investigators had trailed a white Mercedes SUV to the parking lot near Hayden and Chaparral roads at about 1 p.m. Thursday, Hoster said. They used vehicles to trap the SUV after Smith, 21, went inside the Safeway, police said.

Police fired at least four rounds from two different guns because they feared for their lives and for others who were in the parking lot, Hoster said.

Investigators then arrested, Radcliff, 27, and Sanford, 23.

A Safeway employee said Thursday that an undercover officer arrested Smith immediately after shots were fired as the woman stood in the checkout line.

No officers were injured in the incident.

The investigation into the credit-card-fraud ring is ongoing, Hoster said.