Ed Baker ebaker@wickedlocal.com

Investigators assigned to Norfolk County District Attorney Michael Morrissey's office declared two Weymouth police officers were justified in shooting a 49-year-old man who brandished a knife at them outside a Prospect Hill Drive home Jan. 19.

"The investigation revealed and developed sufficient evidence to conclude that the officers, both of whom discharged their weapons, were justified in doing so as a matter of law and self-defense," Morrissey stated.

Officers Sean Murphy and Edward O'Brien were investigating a domestic disturbance call from the home where a 72-year-old Weymouth woman was stabbed to death by her son Paul Campbell, a Dorchester native, according to prosecutors.

Morrissey stated the woman, identified as Campbell’s mother Patricia Campbell, may have been laying on the front stairs of her home for some period of time before the initial 911 call was made.

"There is evidence to conclude that Paul Campbell kicked in his mother's bedroom door and proceeded to murder her with a knife, and that there was an elapse time between when the murder occurred," Morrissey stated.

The shooting of Campbell occurred shortly after 1:04 a.m. when police received a call from the home by a man believed to be Campbell, who had a knife in his hand, according to Morrissey.

Morrissey stated Officers Sean Murphy and O'Brien gave appropriate, continuous warnings and took actions consistent with their professional experience to try disarming Campbell.

“The caller sounded agitated and excited and said, 'I don’t know what is going on someone out there screaming please help her, just stabbed her hurry please,” stated Morrissey.

Police sent two cruisers and a Fallon Ambulance to the hillside home and a dispatcher called the residence seeking more information.

“A male believed to be Paul Campbell answered and immediately disconnected the call,” Morrissey stated. “The dispatcher called back a minute later. The same male, believed to be Paul Campbell, answered and said, 'Send them over (expletive) now,' and disconnected the call.”

Morrissey stated the dispatcher called again and the man believed to be Campbell answered saying, “what’s going on, you coming or not,” and then disconnected the call.

“According to information derived from reports and the Weymouth dispatcher it is reasonable to believe that Paul Campbell made the calls to the Weymouth Police Department,” Morrissey stated. “He sounded highly agitated in those calls and appeared to be anticipating the arrival of police at the scene.”

Once arriving at the house, Morrissey stated Officer O’Brien saw Campbell outside yelling something unintelligible before going into the house.

“Officer Murphy arrived and immediately noticed on the stairway of the dwelling the body of a woman with a large knife protruding from her back,” Morrissey stated. “The front metal storm door of the house (was) banged open and Officer O’Brien saw Paul Campbell holding a large knife in his hand and screaming incoherently from the top landing.”

Morrissey stated O’Brien drew his service weapon and ordered Campbell to drop the knife and get on the ground.

“Paul Campbell ran back inside the house,” Morrissey stated. “Officer O’Brien shouted he has a knife to Officer Murphy as he was coming over from his cruiser.”

Morrissey stated Campbell then kicked open the storm door, ran outside screaming and down the front stairs where he stepped over his mother’s body while heading towards the officers with a large brown-handled knife in his hands.

“The officers backed up into the street away from him with their guns drawn while continuing to give him verbal commands to drop the knife and get on the ground,” Morrissey stated.

Morrissey stated Campbell had the hood of his sweatshirt pulled up over his head and was bouncing on the balls of his feet while screaming incoherently while looking back and forth at each officer.

“The officers continued ordering him to drop the knife and get down on the ground,” Morrissey stated. “Instead of complying he ignored their commands to drop the knife, continued bouncing on the balls of his feet from side to side and advanced toward Officer O’Brien. Officer O’Brien moved away while continuing to yell commands to drop the knife. Paul Campbell then lifted the knife up over his head and charged at Campbell.”

Morrissey stated O’Brien had no choice but to fire his weapon twice at Campbell to protect himself from bodily injury or imminent death.

“After that, Paul Campbell paused momentarily but stayed upright and kept yelling incoherently,” Morrissey stated. “The officers backed away from him and Officer O’Brien radioed Weymouth dispatch from his portable radio that shots had been fired.”

Morrissey stated Campbell then ran across the street yelling and bouncing in a fighter’s stance while both officers repeatedly yelled at him to drop the knife and get on the ground.

“He ran back across the street toward the house but stopped on the sidewalk and began pacing back and forth,” Morrissey stated. “The officers began to slowly approach while continuously yelling to drop the knife and get on the ground. As they came within 8-10 feet of Paul Campbell, he raised the knife in a stabbing motion and charged Officer Murphy.”

Morrissey stated O’Brien then fired his weapon at Campbell because he believed Murphy was in danger of being injured or killed.

Campbell, upon being wounded, stopped and began to back up before collapsing on the sidewalk, according to Morrissey.

“The officers approached with guns drawn, handcuffed Paul Campbell, kicked the large, brown handled knife out of his hand and immediately called for the Fallon ambulance that was waiting down the street for the scene to be deemed safe.” Morrissey stated.

Morrissey stated a family who lived in the neighborhood, heard officers repeatedly yell “drop the knife” and “get on the ground” prior to the gunshots being fired.

"I conclude that the actions taken by Officer Murphy and Officer O'Brien were justified under the circumstances in which Paul Campbell repeatedly attempted to attack them with a knife," Morrissey stated. "I further find that the officers rendered immediate medical assistance and called emergency personnel in an attempt to save Paul Campbell's life without success. In light of these conclusions this office will take no further action as to the performance and execution of their duties by Officer Sean Murphy and Officer Edward O'Brien on Jan. 19, 2015."