Police say the chase suspect shot himself in the head and died

HOUSTON (KTRK) -- Fort Bend authorities say the suspect who led law enforcement on a lengthy pursuit Sunday morning has died after he shot himself in the head.

The Fort Bend County Sheriff's Office has identified the suspect as 21-year-old Andres Nunez.

Authorities say the chase began around 9:45am Sunday when Fort Bend County Sheriff's Office deputies responded to a 911 call in the 16100 block of West Belfort. Jennifer Gomez who lives at the home told deputies her boyfriend had shot at her house because she didn't want to get back together with him.

"My mom said 'call the cops, call the cops'," said Gomez.

When deputies arrived, the suspect took off and several law enforcement agencies gave chase.

Authorities say Nunez turned off of West Bellfort onto Highway 6 and eventually headed toward downtown Houston on the Westpark Toll Road.

"A huge concern was the marathon going on downtown and that subject being able to get into downtown Houston and basically breach a security perimeter around the event," said Major James Hines with the Fort Bend County Sheriff's Office.

Once he hit U.S. 59, he eventually headed southwest on U.S. 59 toward Sugar Land. When he reached the Brazos River, he used the turnaround and headed back toward Houston. Authorities say Nunez's pickup truck had a flat tire on U.S. 59 and he lost control and crashed in the 16500 block of U.S. 59.

Law enforcement say all attempts to use spike strips failed to disable the suspect's vehicle.

Throughout the chase, he continued firing at law enforcement personnel who were chasing him.

At some point, they say he then shot himself in the head.

"I started crying, I didn't know how to react 'cause I really never thought he would shoot himself he wasn't that kind of a person," said Gomez.

The crash ended at 11:48am. Nunez was airlifted via LifeFlight with vital signs to Memorial-Hermann Hospital at the Medical Center. He was pronounced dead at the hospital.

The incident remains under investigation.

No law enforcement personnel were hurt in the shooting or the chase.

All main lanes northbound on US-59 at SH-6 and the shoulder southbound were shut down for close to four hours as police and other emergency personnel worked at the scene.