COURIER-POST STAFF

WINSLOW — Police have shot and killed a man following what authorities say was a domestic dispute in South Jersey.

Camden County prosecutors say the shooting occurred around 10:20 a.m. Sunday in the 300 block of New Brooklyn Road in Winslow. Police were responding to a call reporting a woman being held by a male relative at gunpoint.

When officers arrived, a woman approached their car and attempted to get inside, screaming about a gun, according to the prosecutor's office.

Authorities say William Campbell, 59, of Winslow, approached the vehicle, raising a handgun in the direction of the car. A female officer fired one shot, fatally striking Campbell, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

The officer, who was not injured, is an 18-year veteran of the force. She was placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation.

Police blocked off some roads in the area, but no major traffic problems have been reported.

The incident comes as a police-involved shooting in Bridgeton is drawing national attention.

Jerame C. Reid was shot to death Dec. 30 after exiting a vehicle in which he had been a passenger.

Reid was a 36-year-old convicted felon with a history of violence, including a shootout with state police when he was a teenager. A video of the incident has heightened publicity, and Bridgeton Mayor Albert Kelly held a press conference Thursday vowing to get to the bottom of the shooting.

Winslow has its own history of fatal police-involved shootings.

Daniel St. Pierre, 42, was shot and killed last August after Winslow police responded to his a call involving his trailer on the 400 block of New Freedom Road. The Camden County Prosecutor's Office investigated the case.

In May 2010, Waterford native Keith Briscoe died while officers from Winslow, Pine Hill and Berlin Borough and several civilians struggled to subdue him outside a Wawa store in Berlin Borough.

Authorities determined the 36-year-old died from traumatic asphyxia.

The arresting officer, former Winslow Patrolman Sean Richards, later pleaded guilty to simple assault in connection with what authorities described as an unjustified arrest.

Briscoe's family sued police and in 2012 agreed to a $2.65 million settlement.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.