shpd dash cam screengrab.jpg

Shaker Heights police released dash-cam video showing officers responding to the scene of a fatal hit-skip on Jan. 24.

(Shaker Heights Police Department )

SHAKER HEIGHTS, Ohio -- University Heights police are refusing to release dash-cam video from an attempted traffic stop of a car that later struck and killed a popular fifth-grade teacher.

University Heights Law Director Anthony J. Coyne said in a written response to a public records request that the Jan. 24 video is a confidential investigatory record. Releasing the video would risk identifying a suspect who has not been charged with the hit-and-run, Coyne wrote.

While a southern Ohio appeals court ruled last year that dash-cam footage is not part of the public record, that ruling only applies to eight counties in that judicial circuit. The matter remains unresolved throughout much of the state. However, investigators in northeast Ohio often release video and photo evidence of unidentified criminals.

Shaker Heights on Wednesday provided video from its squad car involved in this incident to the media. The five hours of footage showed nothing of the fatal hit-and-run crash. Commander John Cole of the Shaker Heights police said Friday that the department would also not release the video from the University Heights police cruiser that footage is now part of his department's investigation.

1998 Toyota Avalon XL

James Caffrey, 51, was jogging along South Park Boulevard about 5:30 p.m. when he was struck by a gold 1998 Toyota Avalon XL.

A University Heights police officer stopped the car on Warrensville Center Road after running the car's plates and finding the registered owner's license was suspended.

The Toyota initially pulled over, but sped away toward South Park Boulevard as the officer approached.

Both University Heights and Shaker Heights police denied initial reports that officers were involved in a high-speed pursuit of the car that struck Caffrey.

After hitting Caffrey, the driver abandoned the vehicle and ran into nearby woods.

No arrests have been made. Detectives said they have been in touch with the car's owner, who is not a suspect.

Police did not divulge whether the car's owner knew who was driving when it struck Caffrey, but said the car was not stolen. They also wouldn't say whether they took fingerprints from the car.

Shaker Heights police posted photos Wednesday on its Facebook page of a car similar to the one involved in the crash. Shaker Heights Lt. Jeff Demuth said several people have come forward with tips, none of which have helped identify a suspect.

He's urging anyone with information to reach out to the department.

"Even if it's minute, we encourage everyone to call us," Demuth said. "We want to hear from everybody."