Megan Cassidy

The Republic | azcentral.com

The man killed in Tuesday's Phoenix officer-involved shooting was the last suspect wanted in a recent string of Phoenix armed robberies, with crime scenes ranging from a taxicab to a shoe store, court records say.

Nicolas Leland Tewa, 26, was fatally shot Tuesday night after Tewa repeatedly rammed a stolen vehicle into a police SUV, a department spokesman said.

Police say they had probable cause to arrest Tewa in the robberies, that Tewa was known to carry guns and that he had an "extensive record for violent offenses," the statement says.

Two other suspects, Ruben Lee Tewa, 22, and Sonia Diane Tallabas, 20, had been arrested days earlier after police say they carjacked a victim at gunpoint at a central Phoenix carwash.

Nicolas Tewa's previous convictions include a handful of drug-related charges, an aggravated assault and discharging a firearm within the city limit, court records say.

Tewa's mother, Michelle Homer, said detectives came to her apartment on Monday in search of her son. She said she hadn't been in contact with him for a few weeks.

Homer said she saw news about the shooting on TV before police contacted her around 3 a.m. Wednesday. Homer said she had a feeling it was Nicolas who was shot.

"Why did they have to shoot my son?" she said. "I'm not trying to condone what he did, but why are you going to kill him for a couple hundred dollars and a robbery?"

Police are unsure of the family connection between Ruben and Nicolas Tewa.

Most of the other incidents stemmed from a single day — Saturday — when police say some or all of the suspects robbed multiple Phoenix and Tempe vendors at gunpoint.

In one of the instances, at a shoe store in central Phoenix, one of the suspects walked in, "bought a pair a socks, points the handgun at the clerk and starts counting down," said Sgt. Jon Howard, a Phoenix police spokesman.

Police believe the suspects were involved in additional robberies at a pizza restaurant, several convenience stores and a clothing store.

Detectives are not ruling out other locations or the possibility of other suspects, Howard said.

On Tuesday, police interaction with the trio would culminate in an officer-involved shooting at about 7 p.m. at a Motel 6 near Interstate 17 and Indian School Road. at about 7 p.m.

Sgt. Trent Crump, a Phoenix police spokesman, said officers went to the motel on a tip that Nicolas Tewa had been staying there.

Officers approached the room he was renting and made a "ruckus," hoping that Tewa would emerge, Crump said. When Tewa did, Crump said, Tewa immediately entered a stolen Honda Civic parked nearby and locked the doors.

Officers used a police SUV to pin the Honda in place, but police said Tewa began revving the engine. He rammed the police vehicle several times to maneuver the car around, and that's when two officers shot at him, Crump said.

The officers, a 19-year veteran and a 10-year veteran, were not injured.

Tewa was pronounced dead at the scene.

Republic reporter Sarah Jarvis contributed to this article