The man who died in a police-involved shooting in Madison on Tuesday night took his own life with a shotgun blast, according to the Madison County Sheriff's Department.

The man was identified as Paul Walls of Madison, sheriff department spokesman Sgt. Brian Chaffin said at a Thursday morning press conference. No age was immediately available.

Police opened fire on Walls after Walls shot himself with a shotgun, Chaffin said. Preliminary autopsy results from the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences indicated he died of a self-inflicted wound from the shotgun, Chaffin said.

The incident began as a domestic dispute in Hunington Chase subdivision in Madison. Madison police responded to the call and while speaking to the complainant, Walls drove by the residence.

Chaffin said Madison police, operating under the belief that Walls had violated a protective order filed by the complainant, attempted a traffic stop but Walls did not initially stop. The pursuit covered 1 to 2 miles, Chaffin said, before Walls stopped his 2008 Chevrolet truck at the end of Hunington Chase Drive.

As Madison police exited their vehicle, officers heard the shotgun blast and saw the driver side window blown out. Officers then returned fire, operating under the belief that Walls was firing at them. Police had been advised that Walls possibly had a shotgun in his possession, Chaffin said, that had been taken from the complainant's residence earlier in the day.

Chaffin said it has not yet been determined if any rounds fired by the officers struck Walls or how many rounds were fired by police. The officers are on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, Madison police said.

The Madison County Sheriff's Department is handling the death investigation following a request from Madison police. Chaffin said it's common for an outside law enforcement agency to handle death investigations when there is an officer-involved shooting.

Capt. John Stringer of Madison police also said it's standard operating procedure to turn a death investigation over to the sheriff's department when an officer-involved shooting is part of the incident.

Chaffin said Madison officers "acted in a professional manner" in shooting at Walls.

"They attempted a traffic stop to discuss the protection order, which he is possibly in violation of," Chaffin said. "At that time, he doesn't stop. That escalates the level at that time. He's possibly armed and he refuses to stop. When he does stop, officers are exiting the vehicle - they're on high alert. They realize they have a situation that could turn bad quickly - a danger to the public, themselves or the subject could harm himself.

"A shotgun blast, at night, you're going to see a small flash or something of that nature. They see the glass come out of the car, which corresponds with what you've been trained. When you see a bullet fired outside from a vehicle, the glass comes out. they see the glass come out, they hear the shot, they take cover and return fire. It's training, muscle-memory. It's how we're trained.

"They reacted in a professional manner to a gunshot. They did not realize at the time he had put the gun in his face area and fired it. They didn't realize he had taken his own life. They felt he was firing on them."