A man armed with a claw hammer was shot and killed after he attacked a police dog and two officers in north Stockton, officials said Wednesday.Stockton police received a call just before 11:50 p.m. Tuesday that a family member was intoxicated and swinging a hammer around the house on the 00 block of Martinique Court.Officers arrived to find Matautu Nuu, 35, holding the claw hammer on a street corner near the home, police said.Officers asked Nuu repeatedly to put down the hammer, but Nuu yelled back at the officers to shoot him, according to police.When Nuu refused to put down his weapon, a 3-year-old police K-9 named Nitro was sent to take Nuu into custody.Nuu then hit Nitro with the hammer, which cut him on his snout, officials said.As officers went near Nuu to rescue Nitro, Nuu then came at them with the claw hammer, causing two police officers to shoot him, according to police.After Nuu went down, officers provided first aid, but Nuu was later pronounced dead at a hospital.Nuu had previously been arrested twice in 2014 for public intoxication. In 2008, Nuu was arrested on charges of battery on an officer and resisting arrest, officials said.The two officers, who were both hired by the department in 2013, were not hurt and were placed on paid administrative leave for three days.Nitro was taken to an emergency vet for treatment. He was later discharged and reunited with his handler. KCRA's Leticia Ordaz contributed to this report.

A man armed with a claw hammer was shot and killed after he attacked a police dog and two officers in north Stockton, officials said Wednesday.



Stockton police received a call just before 11:50 p.m. Tuesday that a family member was intoxicated and swinging a hammer around the house on the 00 block of Martinique Court.



Advertisement

Officers arrived to find Matautu Nuu, 35, holding the claw hammer on a street corner near the home, police said.



Officers asked Nuu repeatedly to put down the hammer, but Nuu yelled back at the officers to shoot him, according to police.



When Nuu refused to put down his weapon, a 3-year-old police K-9 named Nitro was sent to take Nuu into custody.



Nuu then hit Nitro with the hammer, which cut him on his snout, officials said.



As officers went near Nuu to rescue Nitro, Nuu then came at them with the claw hammer, causing two police officers to shoot him, according to police.



After Nuu went down, officers provided first aid, but Nuu was later pronounced dead at a hospital.



Nuu had previously been arrested twice in 2014 for public intoxication. In 2008, Nuu was arrested on charges of battery on an officer and resisting arrest, officials said.



The two officers, who were both hired by the department in 2013, were not hurt and were placed on paid administrative leave for three days.



Nitro was taken to an emergency vet for treatment. He was later discharged and reunited with his handler.

KCRA's Leticia Ordaz contributed to this report.