Bay City Public Safety officer Brandon Murphy was shot in the thigh and wounded his assailant while returning fire Monday, Feb. 2, according to police.

UPDATE: Deceased teen who shot Bay City police officer had extensive juvenile record

BAY CITY, MI -- A 17-year-old Bangor Township man authorities say shot a Bay City police officer, and was shot multiple times himself in return, has died.

Michigan State Police Lt. David Kaiser and Bay City Public Safety Director Michael J. Cecchini confirmed the teen died on Sunday, Feb. 15. His family had decided to remove him from life support, Kaiser said.

The teen was hospitalized at Hurley Medical Center in Flint following a shootout with Bay City Public Safety Officer Brandon S. Murphy, police have said. Murphy and another officer responded to a home invasion complaint in the 1600 block of Third Street at 1:28 a.m. on Feb. 2.

While the other officer spoke with the home owner, Murphy tracked the suspect's footprints through freshly fallen snow, encountering him in the 1600 block of Fourth Street at 1:36 a.m., police have said. The suspect responded to Murphy's orders by pulling a gun and opening fire on him, striking him once in the left thigh, police have said.

Murphy returned fire and his bullets struck the teen multiple times, police have said.

Bay City police conducted an investigation pertaining solely to the home invasion complaint, resulting in the Bay County Prosecutor's Office on Monday, Feb. 9, issuing a warrant charging the teen with first-degree home invasion, breaking and entering with intent, and breaking and entering a motor vehicle causing damage. The suspect was not arraigned on the charges prior to his death.

Michigan State Police investigators have been conducting a separate investigation regarding the incident, which is standard for any police-involved shooting.

Murphy, a 14-year veteran of the department, was released from the hospital the afternoon of Feb. 3 and has been recovering at home, according to Cecchini.