HUMMELSTOWN – The Dauphin County coroner has identified a man who was fatally shot by a police officer Monday outside his South Hanover Township home.

David Anthony Kassick, 59, was shot multiple times during the altercation in the 100 block of Grandview Drive, Coroner Graham Hetrick said.

Kassick had been stopped by a Hummelstown police officer before he took off and started a pursuit that ended at his home. He was shot during an altercation behind the house, according to state police.

He was pronounced dead at the scene.

The police officer was not injured.

Court records show Kassick was cited twice last year for driving with a suspended or revoked license.

Reported earlier on Cumberlink:

HUMMELSTOWN - A man was shot and killed by a police officer Monday afternoon during a confrontation at his Dauphin County home.

Trooper Robert Hicks, a state police spokesman, said the man had been pulled over for a traffic stop in Hummelstown, but fled from a borough police officer.

The man led the officer on a pursuit to his home in the 100 block of Grandview Drive in South Hanover Township. He then ran behind the house where there was some sort of altercation and the officer shot the man at around 4 p.m.

He was pronounced dead at the scene.

The man’s name was not immediately released, and details of the traffic stop and the confrontation that led to the shooting were not available Monday night.

State police are handling the shooting investigation.

The police officer was not injured.

Posted Monday on Cumberlink.com:

SOUTH HANOVER TOWNSHIP — State Police say a man is dead after an altercation with an officer behind a home in South Hanover Township, Dauphin County, on Monday afternoon.

Police said that as of 6:18 p.m. they were still on the scene of an officer involved in a shooting in the first block of Grandview Road.

Police said an officer with the Hummelstown Police Department attempted to make a traffic stop on a male driver at about 4 p.m., when the man fled in his vehicle. A pursuit ensued, and the man drove to his residence, fleeing on foot behind the house, police said.

Behind the house, police said an altercation between the officer and the man occurred, and shots were fired by the officer.

The man was pronounced dead at the scene, and the officer was not injured, police said.

Police said the district attorney's office has been notified, and the incident remains under investigation. Multiple local agencies and the Dauphin County coroner were on the scene.

No other details were released Monday evening.