Two officers shot a man who refused to drop a knife during an incident early Saturday morning in Baltimore County, police said.Mobile users tap here to watch videoPolice said officers responded to a call of a man with a knife around 2 a.m. outside a 7-Eleven store in the 9800 block of Liberty Road in Randallstown. Officers ordered the man to drop the knife, but he refused, police said.Police said officers attempted to subdue the man with a Taser, but he still didn't drop the knife. The officers shot the man as he approached them."The Taser didn't have any effect on him, did not cause him to drop the knife, so at that point, our officers removed their service weapons," Baltimore County police Officer Shawn Vinson said.The man, Edward Donnell Bright Sr., 54, of Randallstown, later died at Sinai Hospital.Neither officer was injured.The Baltimore County homicide unit is investigating the incident, which will also be reviewed by the Baltimore County State Attorney’s Office."We don't know if there was a mental illness issue or some other type of alcohol or narcotics involved, but we are waiting for the medical examiner autopsy results to see what exactly happened," Vinson said."They opened fire and he died instantly, he just dropped instantly," said Jabril Valentine, who witnessed the shooting.Bright's daughter, Edtrina Bright, told 11 News her father had some mental health problems but she said he wasn't aggressive."Anybody knows you can't bring a knife to a gun fight. You didn't have to shoot my dad and you're going to pay," Edtrina Bright said.The officers were place on administrative leave.WBAL-TV 11 News reporter Vanessa Herring contributed to this report

Two officers shot a man who refused to drop a knife during an incident early Saturday morning in Baltimore County, police said.

Mobile users tap here to watch video

Advertisement

Police said officers responded to a call of a man with a knife around 2 a.m. outside a 7-Eleven store in the 9800 block of Liberty Road in Randallstown. Officers ordered the man to drop the knife, but he refused, police said.

Police said officers attempted to subdue the man with a Taser, but he still didn't drop the knife. The officers shot the man as he approached them.

"The Taser didn't have any effect on him, did not cause him to drop the knife, so at that point, our officers removed their service weapons," Baltimore County police Officer Shawn Vinson said.

The man, Edward Donnell Bright Sr., 54, of Randallstown, later died at Sinai Hospital.

Neither officer was injured.

The Baltimore County homicide unit is investigating the incident, which will also be reviewed by the Baltimore County State Attorney’s Office.

"We don't know if there was a mental illness issue or some other type of alcohol or narcotics involved, but we are waiting for the medical examiner autopsy results to see what exactly happened," Vinson said.

"They opened fire and he died instantly, he just dropped instantly," said Jabril Valentine, who witnessed the shooting.

Bright's daughter, Edtrina Bright, told 11 News her father had some mental health problems but she said he wasn't aggressive.

"Anybody knows you can't bring a knife to a gun fight. You didn't have to shoot my dad and you're going to pay," Edtrina Bright said.

The officers were place on administrative leave.

WBAL-TV 11 News reporter Vanessa Herring contributed to this report