Alexa N. D'Angelo, Jerod MacDonald-Evoy, and Jamee Lind

Police shot and killed a fugitive they were trying to arrest and the driver of the car he was in on Wednesday near a busy Tempe intersection, authorities said.

Officers had the vehicle pinned when the armed fugitive, whose name was not immediately released, refused to obey police commands, according to Lt. Scott Smith of Tempe police.

"It was during this maneuver that the suspect left the front passenger seat in an attempt to get to the back seat, where he raised a firearm and pointed it at officers who were giving him the command to give up," Smith said.

Smith said it wasn't clear who fired the first shot.

Police first shot the fugitive, later identified as 28-year-old Salvador Muna, of Tempe, and then targeted the driver when he made a movement that officers perceived as threatening, Smith said. Muna died at the scene, and the driver, whom police identified as 28-year-old Joaquin Hernandez, of Tempe, was pronounced dead at a hospital.

No officers were harmed during the incident near Baseline Road and 48th Street, authorities said.

Police say they tracked down Muna on Tuesday but were unable to take him into custody. U.S. Marshals put together a fugitive task force to arrest him on Wednesday, according to Lt. Scott Smith of Tempe police.

The Tempe, Mesa, and Chandler police departments all took part in trying to arrest Muna, who authorities said was wanted for a probation violation and had shown violent tendencies in the past.

"The suspect had prior law enforcement contact before, which involved crimes of violence, weapon violations and drug offenses," Smith said.

Muna's past convictions include aggravated DUI, misconduct involving a weapon and fleeing from police in 2010, according to Arizona Department of Corrections data. More recently, Muna was found guilty of a dangerous drug violation and driving with a suspended license in April 2014, according to court documents.

At about 3 p.m. Wednesday, the task force was attempting to trap Muna by blocking him into an intersection, Smith said.

It happened near the University of Advanced Technology, where students heard the gunshots and ran outside, Nick Friancia said.

"It was just crazy," said Friancia, a student at the school. "I heard four to five gunshots. It felt like there was a firefight."

12 News reporter Kevin Kennedy contributed to this article.