Chicago police are investigating a crash in which an unmarked police car struck and killed a man on a darkened South Chicago street about 1:15 a.m. Wednesday.

Several area residents complained about the frequent lack of street lighting in their neighborhood. The area's alderman also said lights on the street where the accident happened often go out and blamed outdated streetlights and infrastructure.

Advertisement

Police said streetlights in the 2800 block of East 79th Street were not on when a 60-year-old man was hit and killed. Police said the man, dressed in black, was walking in the street when he was struck. He was pronounced dead on the scene.

Authorities were not making public the man's name by Wednesday afternoon.

Advertisement

In the hours after the collision, the man's body remained on the street behind the back bumper of the unmarked police car.

Police taped off the block of East 79th between Burnham and Muskegon avenues as CTA buses on 79th were temporarily rerouted.

Less than an hour after the collision, none of the streetlights around the scene were working.

According to the city's 311 request log, streetlights on the block had been out since at least Jan. 29. Previous 311 requests to repair the whole block's streetlights, from March 26, 2014, and June 5, 2012, were fulfilled within two days, according to the request log.

Michael Claffey, spokesman for the Chicago Department of Transportation, said the department responds to all customer service requests, prioritizing those that raise safety issues.

"We will be conducting an internal review of how this specific request was handled," Claffey said in an emailed statement.

Ald. Natashia Holmes said according to her office's 311 records, a service request about streetlights being out at 79th and Burnham was received Jan. 28 and was completed two days later, on Friday. She said a new request about streetlights being out on the same intersection was submitted and completed Wednesday.

She said Wednesday's response was likely expedited because police needed light to do their investigation.

Advertisement

"We did have unprecedented snow, but the bureau of electricity is generally responsive," Holmes said, adding that average response time is about one to two days from the time of the request.

She said streetlights often go out on 79th Street and other parts of her ward mainly because the lighting infrastructure is antiquated in the area.

Some community members said they are upset over what they say is poor street maintenance in the neighborhood.

Lionel Wilson, who lives on South Burnham Avenue near 79th, said he believes the lights have been out for a few weeks, if not longer.

Wilson was frustrated because he said it's easier to commit a crime when the streets are dark.

"They've got to do something about it, ya know?" Wilson said. "You can't see nothing, especially at nighttime."

Advertisement

Justin Gilliam, who lives near Muskegon and 80th Street, said 79th was dark Tuesday night because all of the streetlights were off.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

He was waiting for a bus on 79th on Wednesday because he didn't want to deal with getting his car back into a parking spot on the snowy street.

In addition to lighting problems, he said the sidewalks hardly ever get cleared in his neighborhood after snowstorms and he believes people don't want to clear them anymore.

"It's pretty bad," Gilliam said. "I thought there was a city ordinance that said you had to clear your sidewalks, but they're not doing it."

qford@tribpub.com

cgross@tribpub.com

Advertisement

Twitter @lexygross

Twitter @chachkevitch