Philip Jankowski

pjankowski@statesman.com

8:25 p.m. update: The family of Sawyer Flache has issued the following statement:

“Sawyer Flache was a loving father to two beautiful daughters. He lived his life to provide for his girls, and made many wonderful memories that will be cherished. The outpouring of support and love from his friends and family is a testament to his true spirit. He will be greatly missed.”

7 p.m. update: Austin police said it was a single shot taken by Austin police Officer Luke Serrato that ended Sawyer Flache’s shooting spree late Saturday night.

Serrato is a 3-year veteran of Austin police’s SWAT sniper team. He has been placed on leave while the shooting is investigated, as is customary with fatal officer-involved shootings, Assistant Chief Brian Manley said Sunday.

At a news briefing Sunday at Austin police headquarters, the Austin police chief of staff described a scene in which Flache fired multiple weapons.

Austin police were first dispatched to the scene at 10:33 p.m. to a call of shots fired. At 10:52 p.m. Austin police’s helicopter Air 1 arrived.

When patrol officers on the ground arrived, they could hear Flache firing multiple shots. At that time, officers stayed away from the scene while the police helicopter circled above to get visual contact of the shooter, Manley said.

Throughout the incident, officers said they saw Flache walk in and out of a garage multiple times with various weapons. Police would not say how many weapons he had, but did mention the use of a rifle and a shotgun.

At 11:18 p.m., both police on the ground and a tactical flight officer in the helicopter reported the suspect firing the weapon again. It was then that the helicopter began taking fire, Manley said.

At 11:51 p.m., a sergeant on the scene reported multiple shots fired again. At 11:56 p.m., a tactical flight officer reported that he could see Flache reloading a weapon.

At 11:58 p.m., the SWAT team arrived and began to advance on the suspect one minute later. As they neared, officer Serrato saw Flache laying on the ground and aiming a rifle at the helicopter.

“Believing that he was about to again fire at Air 1, putting the lives of the officers inside Air 1 in immediate danger, (Serrato) fired one shot and that shot struck the suspect in this case and fatally wounded him,” Manley said.

Flache was dead before the SWAT negotiators had a chance to communicate with him, Manley said.

After the shooting, the SWAT team prepared to slowly clear Flache’s home when they learned that there were two children inside. Police then quickly moved into the home and found two children, aged 4 and 6, in their beds unharmed, Manley said.

Police could not confirm if the children were Flache’s. Various postings Flache made to the social networking sites Facebook and Instagram showed Flache with two children. His neighbors also said he had two children around the ages of those police found in his home Sunday.

Austin police’s victim services unit is assisting the children, Manley said.

Neighbors interviewed Sunday recalled liking Flache and described him as a good father to his two children. But they also said a recent divorce and custody battle had taken a toll.

Peggy Matthews lived next door to Flache for four years. She said Flache was always polite, but that his personal problems had recently caused him to change.

“I just feel that deep down inside he had a lot of emotional turmoil,” Matthews said. “It just seems like you never know with people.”

Manley said police were still investigating a motive for Flache’s actions.

“At this point we are not ready to speculate on why he may have engaged in the activity that he did last night,” Manley said.

A video camera on Austin’s police helicopter captured nearly the entire incident, Manley said. It showed him fire weapons multiple times and caught the actions of the SWAT team as it moved in to engage Flache.

Documents showed Flache graduated from Texas State University in May 2013 with a bachelor’s degree in engineering science.

Hays County Jail records showed Flache was arrested in 2006 and 2007 on charges of possession of marijuana. Public records indicate he was convicted of at least one charge of marijuana possession in 2008.

2:25 p.m. update: The man identified by Austin police as the gunman shot by an officer early Sunday morning after firing at an APD helicopter is 27-year-old Sawyer Flache of Austin, authorities said.

Earlier: A man shot multiple rounds at a police helicopter in a southwest Austin neighborhood before a trained police sniper shot and killed him, police Chief Art Acevedo said earlier today.

The man, who Acevedo identified only as a 27-year-old white male, fired many rounds from the 8200 block of Pax Drive in West Oak Hill starting at 10:30 Saturday night. Police said they have recovered pistols, rifles and shotguns they believe were his. Acevedo did not say whether the man lived in the neighborhood.

“What we had was an active shooter,” Acevedo said. “It’s hard to know what was going through people’s minds when they start shooting at a police helicopter in a neighborhood like this.”

According to a police timeline of events, Acevedo said, officers began receiving calls around 10:30 Saturday night about a man shooting at streetlights. Air 1, the primary helicopter of the Police Department’s three-unit fleet, was dispatched just before 11 p.m.

The suspect began firing at the aircraft at 11:18 pm, Acevedo said, and continued firing multiple rounds for about the next 30 minutes. At least one of the rounds struck the rotor blades, police said.

Just before midnight, Acevedo said, officers attempted to “engage” the suspect. At 12:09 a.m. as he continued firing at the chopper, the sniper shot and killed him.

Police did not release additional information about the suspect. The helicopter safely returned to its base near Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.

Charles Swenson, who lives in the neighborhood, said he heard the police helicopter “circling for quite a while and we heard the shots. It was definitely a matter of concern, especially when you heard the gunshots.”

View Larger Map