The same day a judge granted a domestic-violence injunction that was meant to keep Joseph Paffen away from his ex-girlfriend, he violated it, court documents say.

As the woman was leaving the Orange County Courthouse with the injunction on Jan. 30, Paffen followed her to her car.

The woman’s friend stood between her and Paffen to stop him from grabbing her as he told her that he had been in love with her for three months.

Nine days after that confrontation, Paffen was killed by Orange County deputies in the Conway Crossing shopping plaza on Hoffner Road.

Deputies say Paffen was at the plaza because he wanted to meet his ex-girlfriend there.

The woman called deputies to report that he had contacted her again in violation of the injunction.

Court records and Paffen’s Facebook page paint a picture of Paffen’s final weeks.

“I feel as thought I’ve been dragged to hell with the loss of all I love,” Paffen wrote the day before he was killed. “But I’d crawl back! I’d never fail to stand by my loved ones, and fix the mistakes I’ve made.

Paffen’s ex-girlfriend requested the injunction after she said Paffen sent her endless text messages, attacked her and beat her husband with a bat.

It wasn’t clear how long she had been married.

“Joseph Paffen broke my husband’s jaw and arm with a baseball bat,” the woman wrote. “I am scared for my life and my husband’s life… Joseph Paffen is aggressive and very violent as he is also very angry with the government. He also has stock piles of guns, ammunition, food, water, medications and first aid items.”

Paffen, who deputies say identified himself as a “sovereign citizen,” was not charged for any of the accusations made against him in the injunction, though an investigation was underway.

Paffen has been arrested several times in the past, records show.

His arrest record dates back to a burglary and grand larceny arrest in 1990 but in the past 15 years, his arrests have been largely non-violent.

Most of his encounters with law enforcement started with traffic violations.

He was arrested in 2007 on charges of counterfeiting a license plate and driving without a valid license or vehicle registration.

Typically, self-described sovereign citizens claim that they don’t have to follow federal, state or city laws, including tax regulations.

Two deputies were injured in Sunday’s gun battle but are expected to recover.

Five officers were placed on routine administrative leave following the shooting. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating.

dstennett@tribune.com or 407-420-5447