One person is dead and another is in police custody after a shooting involving an Orlando police officer on Wednesday night, officials said.

Advertisement 1 dead, 1 in custody in officer-involved shooting; Officers not injured Family of victim says he didn't have gun Share Copy Link Copy

One person is dead and another is in police custody after a shooting involving an Orlando police officer on Wednesday night, officials said.No police officers were injured in the incident, Orlando police said.According to police, two undercover drug agents were in the area near Palma Vista Apartments near State Road 436 and Pershing Avenue around 9:30 p.m.Orlando police said detectives Amanda White and Yong Hall heard gunshots coming from a wooded area along the edge of the parking lot. Both of the plainclothes detectives took cover behind a parked car and when the two men believed to be exchanging the gunshots walked towards them, the officers confronted them.Police said Ricardo Caban, 34, complied with their order to drop his gun and hit the ground. He was not harmed. Police said Izzy Colon, who also had a gun, refused to surrender and as a result, Hall shot him.Colon was taken to Orlando Regional Medical Center, where he later died. Caban was not injured and is currently in police custody.OPD hired White in 2009 and Hall in 2007.Resident Sharon Martinez said she heard up to eight gunshots at her complex."It's really scary because it's right in front of my complex," she said.The two officers were placed on paid administrative leave, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the shooting, which is standard practice.Colon's family claims Caban and Colon were good friends and were not shooting at each other."My brother doesn't (expletive) play with guns. It's a lie. It's all a lie. They're lying. They're lying," the suspect's sister Tracy Colon said.Colon said she was with her brother moments before he was shot and killed and said he did not have a gun. Caban had a history of domestic violence and was barred from possessing firearms.Top video: Orange County school tests walking classroom idea"He was at the wrong place at the wrong time," she said.A makeshift memorial was set up outside the apartment complex for the deceased suspect Thursday morning.Words spray painted on an electrical box read, "RIP Sabore," the name family and friends said they knew him by.14277264