A 20-year-old Axis man who died during a standoff with Mobile police on Sunday evening had a checkered past riddled with arrests. According to records from Mobile County Metro Jail, Brandon Lee Davis had spent only a maximum of four months at a time out of jail from the time he turned 18 years old in 2012 up until his death.

Just three months after his 18th birthday, Davis was arrested on one count of second-degree theft. He entered a guilty plea and was ordered to participate in a jail diversion program, Mobile County District Court records show.

Two months later, on Nov. 25, 2012, Davis was arrested again on charges of first-degree assault and first-degree burglary. He was held without bond and later had his probation revoked in the September theft case. Jail records show he was held until July 6, 2013.

Four months later he was arrested again, this time on one count of third-degree domestic violence. The charge was later dropped, court records show, but his time out of jail was short-lived. In January 2014, Creola police arrested him on numerous drug-related charges, including chemical endangerment of a child.

He was most recently released from jail on Oct. 17, 2014.

On Sunday, officers were met with gunfire while responding to a reported shooting on Fairway Drive, according to authorities. A 35-year-old man remained hospitalized Monday after he was shot in the face and both arms, reportedly by Davis, said Mobile Police Department spokesman Officer Terence Perkins.

Police did not say what led to the shooting or whether Davis and the unnamed victim knew each other.

For officers, the situation was one they had prepared for as part of their crisis rehearsal training.

"Their first job was to get out of the line of fire," Perkins said. "It can be very dangerous. You never know what (a shooter's) intentions are."

According to police, Davis briefly took a hostage before holing up in a nearby home. For hours, officers tried to coax him out of the house. Around 7 p.m., they threw tear gas into the residence.

When they made entry, they found Davis dead with no obvious signs of trauma, Perkins said.

No officers were injured in the standoff, Perkins said.

Davis' body was sent to the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences for an autopsy to determine his cause of death, according to investigators.