MEMPHIS, TN (WMC) - A Memphis police officer and a suspect were both shot Tuesday night.

The officer is expected to be okay, but the suspect later died from his injuries according to police.

According to police, officers responded to the scene in the 4500 block of Aldridge Road where they were trying to find a person wanted on an aggravated assault charge. While on the scene, shots were fired.

"Officers entered the home, and at the time they entered the house, gunfire was exchanged," explained Memphis Police Deputy Chief Gerald Perry.

Family members identified the suspect as 48-year-old Anthony Bess.

Bess's daughter, Ebony Bess, says her dad is not the kind of man who would shoot at police.

Ebony Bess arrived on the scene after receiving a frantic call from her brother.

"He was like, 'Daddy just got shot,' and I was like 'What? I just talked to my daddy,'" recalled Ebony.

Police say this was not a tactical team operation and there are no details on how officers initially approached the house.

"We're still in the beginning stages of the investigation," said Perry.

Ebony Bess will also be closely following the investigation.

"I don't know if he was wanted or not, he didn't bring it to my attention," said Ebony. "But I don't, I don't know what's going on."

The officer and suspect were both taken to the Regional Medical Center, several MPD officers also showed up.

MPD Public Information Officer Karen Rudolph explained why there were several officers at the hospital.

"You have officers that ride this area anyhow that's going to come over and assist officers whenever they arrive at the hospital. Then of course you're going to have officers from the scene that will be here. We have the investigators that will be here required for follow up reasons, so there are quite a few officers here," she explained.

At last check, the injured MPD officer is expected to make a full recovery. Police have not released the injured officer's name.

Copyright 2015 WMC Action News 5. All rights reserved.

?