Follow CBSMIAMI.COM: Facebook | Twitter

MIAMI (CBSMiami) - The family of a Miami Gardens man who was shot and killed by police after he reportedly threatened them with a broomstick is taking the matter to court.

More Miami Local News From CBS Miami

Last week, a lawyer for Hall's family wrote to the head of the Florida Department of Law Enforce requesting an independent review of the shooting.

CLICK HERE To Watch Natalia Zea's Report

The family of Lavall Hall, 25, called police for assistance on Sunday, February 15th, because he thought someone was after him. Hall's family said he had been diagnosed as schizophrenic. When the officers showed up Stephen Johnson, the police chief at the time, said Hall went after them.

"(When officer Peter) Ehrlich tried to exit vehicle. He attacked him with a broom handle.

Johnson said officer Eddo Trimino saw what happened and chased Hall who at one point reportedly turned and went after the officer with the four foot broom handle.

"Officer Trimino was struck in head by metal end of that broom handle," said Johnson.

Johnson said both Trimino and Ehrlich deployed their Tasers on Hall to no avail.

Johnson said, "The subject didn't comply and was combative towards Trimino."

That's when the fatal shots were fired.

The lawsuit against the officers, former police chief Stephen Johnson and the City of Miami Gardens alleges the officers used excessive force with Hall, violating his civil rights.

According to the suit "...at the time that Hall was accosted by Defendants, he had not committed a crime or offense nor was he engaged in or planning to commit a crime."

It goes onto say "...when defendants began to yell commands at Hall, he manifested signs and symptoms that he had a mental handicap. Hall was unable to communicate, clearly did not understand what was going on, and was visibly scared."

The chief said both officers are Crisis intervention certified and are veterans. They are on paid administrative injured leave.

Johnson was after he was arrested, reportedly caught up in a prostitution sting in Dania Beach.