LaDoniqua Neely, the police officer who allegedly shot the 43-year-old, has been put on administrative leave while an investigation is carried out

A mother-of-two has been shot dead by the police officer she called to help her rid her North Carolina home of unwanted guests.

Betty Sexton had called 911, asking officers to come to the home she shared with her boyfriend in Gastonia just before midday on Tuesday.

She had hoped the officer, named by authorities as LaDoniqua Neely, would help her make the unwanted guests leave.

Shot dead: Betty Sexton (left) had called officers to her home in Gastonia, Carolina, to get help removing unwanted guests. But officer LaDoniqua Neely (right) ended up shooting her dead

Armed: It has emerged Ms Sexton was holding a musket at the time she was shot

But the call-out ended in tragedy, with Ms Sexton being shot in the chest, allegedly by Neely.

The 43-year-old later died in hospital.

However, it has since emerged Ms Sexton was holding an old musket during the confrontation with police.

Her sister Debra Kennedy told WCCB Charlotte she had grabbed it from the closet - although exactly why remains unclear, but it is Ms Sexton believed it was not loaded.

The family claim she was in the process of putting the gun down when the officer fired.

'That officer still shot my sister dead in the chest,' Kennedy told WCCB.

Neely, who joined the force in 2012, has been put on administrative while an investigation is carried out.

Distraught: Sister Debra Kennedy, seen here talking to local news channel WCCB, said she was putting it down when the fatal bullet was shot by the police officer

This is the second time in two weeks Gastonia's police force has shot someone dead when responding to domestic call outs.

On Saturday, February 7, James Howard Allen was killed after refusing to drop the gun he was holding.

Firefighters had broken into the 74-year-old's home, concerned he may have been involved in some sort of medical emergency, the Gaston Gazette reported.

The police officer in that case was also put on administrative leave - the standard protocol after a firing a fatal shot.

Investigation: Officers spent at least six hours going over the scene after Tuesday's shooting

Meanwhile, friends and relatives of Ms Sexton, who has one teenager and a grown-up child, have been paying tribute on social network Facebook.

Niece Samantha Kennedy wrote: 'It's not fair. I miss you so much. I dont know how im going to go on without you. I cant let go!

'Please come back.'

Bob Kotula, who posted a picture of Ms Sexton, added: 'Betty was a good friend and helper. She will be missed by many.'

But others are angry at the police for her death.