Ken Palmer

Lansing State Journal

CHARLOTTE – Eaton County Prosecutor Doug Lloyd said no charges will be brought against three deputies involved in the fatal shooting of a 32-year-old Charlotte man in February.

Matthew Lundy was shot Feb. 17 by Eaton County Sheriff's deputies after his sport-utility vehicle went into a ditch and became stuck in a snow bank along Canfield Road in Eaton Rapids Township.

Lundy, a convicted felon, had a gun. He was shot 10 times, according to Lloyd and Michigan State Police, who investigated the incident. Three deputies were at the scene, and two of them fired their weapons, Lloyd confirmed at a news conference on Tuesday afternoon. A total of 11 shots were fired.

Lundy's weapon - a derringer-style pistol - was not discharged, but Lloyd said audio recordings at the scene and marks on bullets in Lundy's gun indicate that he may have tried to fire it at officers before he died.

After seeing the gun and Lundy's arm raised toward his partner, Deputy Tad Schwartz fired nine rounds from his service weapon. Minutes later, after deputies heard a "click" that sounded like a gun trigger, Deputy Theresa VanDorpe fired two more rounds with a rifle, Lloyd said.

Lundy had experienced turmoil over the previous few days, Lloyd said, and had threatened suicide or suggested he might spark a confrontation with police that would end his life. His relationship with his girlfriend was in jeopardy and he was facing a probation violation hearing after being charged with retail fraud, Lloyd said.

Lundy sent text messages that he would die before going back to jail and that his life was over, the prosecutor said.

Lloyd said he treated the incident, which lasted a total of about eight minutes, as two separate shootings. Schwartz fired after Lundy raised his gun and pointed it at Deputy Chris Cunningham, he said.

The first shot from VanDorpe came after deputies heard what sounded like a trigger click. The second came as a school bus approached them on Canfield, and VanDorpe believed Lundy was trying to get into position to fire his gun, Lloyd said.

"From Deputy VanDorpe, what I saw was her in a situation where not only did you have Mr. Lundy moving, Mr. Lundy not complying with orders (and) an actual click of a gun, you also had a school bus come into the area as well," Lloyd said. "Those two shots were justifiable."

Lloyd said he spoke with Lundy's family before announcing his decision.

"They lost a son, they lost a brother," he said. "Obviously, that's hard. (But) they were glad we were able to meet."

An attorney for Lundy's estate said family members are satisfied that the incident was thoroughly investigated.

"At this time, the Lundy Estate will not be seeking any further action of any sort against the officers involved in this incident," the attorney, Jamie White, said in a prepared statement.

Eaton County Undersheriff Jeff Cook said Schwartz and VanDorpe, who initially were placed on paid leave, have been on administrative duty for about a month and will be returned to full duty.

The Feb. 17 incident was the first of two fatal roadside shootings involving Eaton County Sheriff's Office personnel in less than two weeks.

On Feb. 28, a sheriff's sergeant shot and killed Deven Guilford, 17, of Mulliken, after a traffic stop on M-43, west of Cochran Road, in Roxand Township.

Officials said Guilford was shot after he and Sgt. Jonathan Frost became involved in a physical struggle. Guilford died at the scene. Frost was hospitalized for undisclosed injuries after the incident.

The state police investigation into that incident is still ongoing, officials said.

Matt Mencarini contributed to this report.