Advertisement New details released in Monday's officer-involved shooting Share Copy Link Copy

New information has been released by the Omaha Police Department following Monday night's officer-involved shooting.Video: New details released in Monday's officer-involved shootingOmaha Police Officer Alvin Lugod, 31, has been identified as the officer who shot Daniel Elrod, 39. Elrod died from gunshot wounds sustained in the incident.Lugod was involved in a separate officer-involved shooting in September 2012, in which a man lunged for a weapon on the ground. Police said Lugod and another officer discharged their weapons, killing him. He was cleared of any wrongdoing by the department.In Monday night's incident, police said that officers en route to a reported robbery at the Family Dollar at 13th and Hickory Streets located the suspect, who was walking northbound on 13th Street at 6:32 p.m.Officers Lugod, Bradley Bornhoft, Nicole Geyza and Patricia Pope made contact with Danny Elrod, the suspect in the Family Dollar robbery, in the parking lot of Sports Car Garage.The officers allegedly gave Elrod loud verbal commands to show his hands and to get on the ground, which Elrod refused to comply with.Elrod reportedly climbed onto the hood of one of the vehicles parked in the parking lot and continued to be non-compliant. Geyza deployed a taser, but it was ineffective.Lugod perceived Elrod's actions and statements to be a threat toward another officer, according to a press release from the Omaha Police Department. He discharged his duty weapon several times.Officers administered aid to Elrod, who was transported by rescue squad to the Nebraska Medical Center. Elrod died from wounds sustained in the shooting.No weapons or firearms were found at the scene.Amanda Elrod, Daniel Elrod's wife, disagrees with the department's recollection of the events."I saw the police pulled up, and as soon as they pulled up they yelled something," Amanda Elrod said. "And then I heard pop, pop, pop."Amanda Elrod said it's difficult for her to mourn because of how angry she is."I'm not saying he's innocent at all, but when it comes down to his death -- the Omaha Police Department is very much at fault for his death," Amanda Elrod said. "He used to be a bad guy, but he has changed. He was the best husband, the best father that anyone could ever ask for."Daniel Elrod's criminal history includes theft, felony assault and carrying a concealed weapon. He spent three days in the Douglas County jail in January for domestic assault. However, Amanda Elrod maintains that he was wrongfully killed and demands answers."There was no time in between where they said anything about being armed or, 'Drop your weapon,' or freeze, stop right there, nothing," Amanda Elrod said.The Omaha Police Department's Officer-Involved Investigations Squad is investigating the incident. Interviews with all officers involved were completed Tuesday.Several citizens allegedly witnessed the robbery, but none located actually witnessed the shooting.The shooting incident was captured on two Omaha police cruiser video cameras.Omaha Police Chief Todd Schmaderer will personally review the video and case evidence.In accordance with Omaha Police Department policy, Lugod has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation.There have been two officer-involved shootings in Omaha this year. According to Omaha police, there were eight in 2011, five in 2012, six in 2013 and four in 2014.