CROWN POINT -- A grand jury will decide if a Lake Station police officer was justified in fatally shooting a Chicago man who allegedly refused to stop advancing on officers as he walked down Central Avenue armed with two broken liquor bottles.

Lake County Prosecutor Bernard Carter said in a press release Monday that information about the March 27 shooting of Brandon J. Haywood will be presented to a grand jury within 60 days. Carter declined additional comment, as did Lake Station Police Chief Rich Arnold.

Haywood, an aspiring dancer who lived in Chicago's Logan Square neighborhood after growing up in Gary, was shot once in the leg and once in the chest by Officer Brad Shrader after he allegedly refused to heed instructions to stop walking toward the backpedaling officer, police have said.

Robert Schultz, one of Haywood's two roommates, said he was pleased with the prosecutor's announcement, although he was not sure of all the political implications.

"I'm pleased there's an effort to have an investigation occur," said Schultz, who works at Amnesty International. "We're in a democracy and you have to applaud the democratic process. As an outsider of the community, I have to view the appointment of a grand jury as a good development."

A lawsuit seeking more than $1 million in damages was filed by Haywood's family on May 16 in U.S. District Court in Hammond. The suit alleges police used unjustified deadly force, and denied Haywood's rights to a fair trial and equal protection under the law.

Chicago attorney John Winters, who represents the family, said the suit will raise the question of whether race was a factor in the shooting. Haywood was black and the three Lake Station officers at the scene were all white.

The suit names Lake Station, its Police Department, Arnold, Shrader, and the two other officers present, Peter Baum and Scott Garzella, as defendants.

The Lake County coroner's office previously classified the shooting death of Haywood, of 2110 N. St. Louis St., as a homicide.

The incident began shortly after 11 a.m. when police received two reports of a man walking east in the middle of Central Avenue near Floyd Street.

Shortly after officers arrived at the scene, Baum attempted to circle behind Haywood, Arnold said previously. Baum attempted to pull Haywood to the ground, but he got away, Arnold said.

Haywood then continued walking toward Shrader with the broken bottles, ignoring repeated orders to stop and making an "aggressive move" toward the officer, Arnold said. Shrader then fired two shots from his department-issued .40-caliber handgun.

Arnold previously described the shooting as "tragic," but indicated he believes it was justified.

Haywood's friends told The Times after the shooting that the Chicago man had left for his mother's Gary home March 21 with a lot of questions about his past and plans to return in a couple of days.

His roommates, Schultz and Lupe Lopez, said Haywood was a nonviolent man who rarely drank alcohol. He enjoyed reading and writing poetry and song lyrics, and had recently landed an internship as a dancer with Deeply Rooted Productions in Chicago, they said.

Tony Parker can be reached at tparker@howpubs.com or (219) 662-5337.