RELATED: Catasauqua man gunned down by police has a history of run-ins with the law

Officers from Catasauqua and the Pennsylvania State Police opened fire on a Catasauqua man who stabbed a borough police officer following a police chase early Monday morning, authorities said.

Jerome Nichols, who died in the shooting, allegedly stabbed a woman in Whitehall Township then fled in a vehicle, authorities said. He was spotted by Catasauqua police and led them on a chase, authorities said.

The chase ended on North Plymouth Street in Allentown, where Nichols stabbed a Catasauqua officer before another Catasauqua officer and a state trooper opened fire, law enforcement officials said during a Monday afternoon news conference.

Nichols died at the scene from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Lehigh County Coroner's Office.

The officer and the woman stabbed in Whitehall Township were injured, went to local hospitals and both underwent surgery. Authorities wouldn't identify either person, and would only say the female victim is age 50.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to them," said state police Capt. Brian Tobin.

Pennsylvania State Police at Bethlehem are handling the investigation with the Lehigh County District Attorney's Office. Tobin said the officers who opened fire have been placed on administrative duty, and Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said there will be a parallel investigation into the officers' response.

Martin said he reviewed videotape from the state trooper's patrol vehicle and found nothing to indicate the shooting wasn't warranted.

"While it is preliminary and while there is an investigation yet to be concluded, I can say with a high degree of assurance that the shooting by Pennsylvania State Police and Catasauqua police certainly appears to be justified under the circumstances I've now seen on videotape," he said.

"It's pretty clear to me that the officer was under attack with a large knife. He was stabbed multiple times."

No one answered the door Monday morning at Nichols' home on Race Street.

A home invasion

Jerome Nichols, 42, of Catasauqua, was fatally shot by police Monday morning in Allentown.

Authorities said Nichols had been in a relationship with the female victim several weeks before.

Early Monday morning, Nichols forced his way into the victim's home on Main Street, and at one point the victim pushed out an upper-floor window screen to call for help, police said.

"We believe entry to the home of the stabbing victim was non-consensual," Martin said.

The woman and her teenage son were home at the time, but the son did not witness the attack, police said.

Whitehall Township police Lt. Michael Marks said the victim's car was vandalized and the tires were slashed, but police were working to confirm if Nichols was responsible.

Nichols allegedly fled after the attack, but police broadcast a description of his vehicle and he was spotted by Catasauqua police, authorities said.

On North Plymouth Street in east Allentown, Nichols jumped out of the car and the Catasauqua officers followed; one used a stun gun on Nichols, but it was not effective, prosecutors said.

Nichols turned with a large kitchen knife and stabbed the Catasauqua officer; when he did, a second Catasauqua officer and a state trooper opened fire with their service weapons, authorities said.

Catasauqua Police Chief Douglas Kish said he visited the wounded officer at the hospital, and that the surgery was to control some bleeding. The officer has been on the force for five years.

"He's in good spirits," Kish said.

Officials would only say the officer was stabbed multiple times.

Asked if Nichols was known to Catasauqua police, Kish said "It wasn't a name that popped out right in front of me."

But the 42-year-old Nichols had a history of fighting police officers, including Catasauqua officers, according to court records.

Sarah Cassi may be reached at scassi@express-times.com. Follow her on Twitter@SarahCassi. Find Lehigh County news on Facebook.