The family of a man shot and killed by police has filed federal lawsuits against the city of Santa Ana, accusing officers of using excessive force while carrying out what they claim was an illegal search and arrest.

The shooting of Ernesto Canepa during a robbery investigation on Feb. 27 drew heated protests by family and supporters at a Santa Ana City Council meeting, as well as scrutiny from the Mexican government.

According to police, officers were checking on a vehicle parked in the 1000 block of West Third Street that matched the description of a car involved in a robbery in which a gold chain was snatched off a 63-year-old woman. They reportedly encountered Canepa and a shooting ensued, leaving Canepa dead.

Police have not outlined what sparked the shooting, although they did indicate that Canepa became “uncooperative” at some point during the confrontation with officers.

Witnesses claimed Canepa was unarmed. Authorities indicated that a replica handgun was found in his car.

Family and friends described Canepa as a giving and loving family man who worked two jobs to support his four children. Neighbors said he didn’t take part in gang activity, and wasn’t known to be violent.

On Saturday, the federal complaints were filed on behalf of two of Canepa’s children by attorneys Humberto Guizar and Angel Carrazco. In addition to the city of Santa Ana, both federal lawsuits name as a defendant Christopher Shynn, the officer who police say shot Canepa.

The complaints allege that Canepa was sitting in a car, alone and unarmed, when Shynn fired multiple shots at him, several of which struck Canepa in the face.

“The use of deadly force against (Canepa) was excessive and objectively unreasonable under the circumstances, especially because at all relevant times (Canepa) was unarmed and posed no threat,” Guizar wrote in one of the complaints, which also alleges that police didn’t call for medical care in a timely manner.

Santa Ana officials declined to comment on the lawsuits, citing a policy not to discuss ongoing litigation.

Canepa’s shooting immediately drew the attention of protestors, a dozen of whom showed up to a council meeting in March where they angrily shouted “murderers” and “pigs,” asking “Who killed Ernesto?”

The fatal shooting of Canepa was also condemned by Mexico’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, along with two other shootings of Mexican nationals in Texas and Washington State during the month of February.

A statement by the Mexican government released in early March asked that they be informed of the results of investigations into the shooting, and called for Santa Ana police to “repair” their relationship with the local community.

Staff writer Alejandra Molina contributed to this report.

Contact the writer: 714-834-3784 or semery@ocregister.com