An Alabama woman was killed by Georgia lawmen after authorities say she pulled a gun on them following a high speed chase in Worth County last week.

Crystal Lee Miley Harry, 34, of Sylacauga, had multiple gunshot wounds to the chest and arms, Worth County Coroner John Johnson told AL.com. Her accomplice, 37-year-old Phillip Randolph Kelly, also of Sylacauga, wasn't injured.

Johnson said the crash and subsequent shooting happened one week ago today - Feb. 26- on U.S. Highway 82 in Sylvester, Ga. He said there was a lookout bulletin for Harry and Kelly, but didn't say why the pair was wanted.

Worth County sheriff's deputies tried to pull over Harry and Kelly in their Nissan Sentra, but they refused to stop, Johnson said. "They got into a chase with them and had an accident in the ditch,'' Johnson said. "They overturned the car."

Harry, he said, got out of the car brandishing a pistol. He said he couldn't confirm reports that she had a gun in both hands. "She pointed it at the deputies and they fired on her and killed her,'' the coroner said.

Kelly wasn't injured and was taken into custody. Efforts to reach Worth County sheriff's officials for comment were unsuccessful. The sheriff's office referred all questions to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which has taken over the probe.

Worth County Sheriff Jeff Hobby told the Albany Herald that Harry got out of the crashed vehicle with a revolver in one hand and an automatic pistol in the other. She did not fire any shots.

Hobby told the publication that investigators found methamphetamine and at least a dozen firearms in the vehicle, all thought to have been stolen during a burglary spree in Florida. "They were working their way back through this area selling the guns," Hobby said.

Kelly is being held without bond in the Lowndes County Jail, according to jail records, on a half dozen of gun and theft charges.

Harry was buried Wednesday in Talladega. Alabama court records show Harry was arrested last year in Calhoun County on illegal possession/use of a credit card. She was set to go to trial on that charge in April.

She was also arrested in Alabama in 2010 on a charge of unlawful manufacturing of a controlled substance, but a grand jury refused to indict her on that charge.