Deputies were involved in a deadly shooting Saturday afternoon, the Greenville County Sheriff's Office says.Deputies were called Saturday afternoon to Stewart's Fishing Lake, in Pelzer, to investigate a theft from a business.The owner of the business told deputies the suspect was armed, and identified the suspect for deputies.Witnesses told deputies someone drove the suspect to an address on Highway 8.When deputies arrived at that address, they said someone fired at them from a tree line.Lt. Ty Miller of the Sheriff's Office said one deputy returned fire, hitting the man once.Deputies said the man died at the scene.Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans identified the man as 24-year-old Chazsten Noah Freeman. Evans said Freeman died from a single gunshot wound to the head.The Sheriff's Office said no deputies were injured in the shooting.Lt. Miller said Greenville County had nine warrants out for Freeman's arrest.Deputies said their last incident involving Freeman was on Feb. 21.In that incident, deputies said Freeman tried to run over a deputy during an attempted traffic stop.The Greenville County Sheriff's Office, coroner's office and SLED continue to investigate the shooting.

Deputies were involved in a deadly shooting Saturday afternoon, the Greenville County Sheriff's Office says.

Deputies were called Saturday afternoon to Stewart's Fishing Lake, in Pelzer, to investigate a theft from a business.

Advertisement

The owner of the business told deputies the suspect was armed, and identified the suspect for deputies.

Witnesses told deputies someone drove the suspect to an address on Highway 8.

When deputies arrived at that address, they said someone fired at them from a tree line.

Lt. Ty Miller of the Sheriff's Office said one deputy returned fire, hitting the man once.

Deputies said the man died at the scene.

Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans identified the man as 24-year-old Chazsten Noah Freeman.

Evans said Freeman died from a single gunshot wound to the head.

The Sheriff's Office said no deputies were injured in the shooting.

Lt. Miller said Greenville County had nine warrants out for Freeman's arrest.

Deputies said their last incident involving Freeman was on Feb. 21.

In that incident, deputies said Freeman tried to run over a deputy during an attempted traffic stop.

The Greenville County Sheriff's Office, coroner's office and SLED continue to investigate the shooting.