NORMAL - At least one Normal police officer voiced concern about James Merica's troubling attitude on the use of deadly force before the patrolman shot and killed a motorist in 2002, according to discovery documents from a civil lawsuit.

Several other officers said they often heard Merica make statements about wanting to shoot people in the years leading up to the fatal shooting of 20-year-old Nathan Ruch.

A wrongful-death lawsuit filed by Ruch's family against Merica and the town of Normal was settled for an undiclosed amount earlier this week.

Discovery documents given to the Pantagraph by David Dorris, the Ruch family attorney, contained statements from several police officers. They said they heard Merica say before the Ruch shooting: "My motto is, it's not a matter of if I'm going to be involved in another shooting, it's a matter of when."

The town of Normal, its civil attorney and Merica, who now is a Normal police detective, have not returned repeated phone calls this week seeking comment on the documents.

The town issued a statement Wednesday in response to previous coverage of the case. "Allegations regarding Officer Merica's record and character are inaccurate as well as allegations of prior knowledge of such rumors by Police Command Staff," it said.

But at least one officer told a member of Normal's command staff about comments deemed inappropriate by then-Chief Walt Clark prior to the Ruch shooting, according to documents from an internal investigation of Merica.

Officer Dave Ludington, who fired the fatal shot during a 1998 police shooting at Fairview Elementary School, told Lt. Mark Kotte in late 2001 or early 2002 about Merica's "it's not a matter of if, but when" motto. Merica participated in the Fairview incident.

Ludington said Merica's comments about using deadly force spooked him and prompted him to warn Kotte "that guy's going to shoot someone soon."

Ruch, an Illinois State University student, was shot and killed by Merica on March 27, 2002, following a traffic chase through residential neighborhoods.

Merica told investigators that Ruch tried to run him over with his pickup truck during the incident in the 100 block of Doud Court and claims the shooting was justified.

Merica often referred to killing a person as "dumping someone," Ludington told Crutcher, adding it "bugged" him when Merica said he'd probably have to "dump someone."

Clark heard about the comments and ordered his command staff to have a talk with Merica, but the Ruch shooting occurred days before the meeting was to take place, according to depositions from the lawsuit.

Comments about Merica made by Ludington and several other officers were part of an internal investigation led by Crutcher two months after the Ruch shooting.

Merica denied during an interview with Crutcher and in his deposition for the Ruch lawsuit that he ever made any of the inappropriate comments alleged by other officers.

But in a June 2002 memo to Clark, Crutcher said:

"I find it hard to believe that these officers would come forward with this information without some validity to their claims. In fact, I believe the comments were made in the course of everyday conversation; this may be why Officer Merica does not remember making them.

"Regardless of why the comments were made, I feel that Officer Merica should be evaluated for fitness for duty prior to returning to solo patrol for the Normal Police Department. I also feel that the current counseling he's receiving should be extended to a point where we're comfortable that his views on the use of force are acceptable.

"He should also be counseled for making these comments in the workplace."

Merica, 35, was given a desk assignment following the Ruch shooting. Instead of returning him to patrol, the department later made Merica a detective.

The 1998 shooting at Fairview Elementary School also was referenced by several officers during Crutcher's investigation because Merica supposedly said "it was fun and that he couldn't wait to do it again."

Retired Normal police officer Dave Churchill told Crutcher that Merica made the comment about Fairview about six months after the shooting.

Churchill came forward with information about Merica's comments about two months after the Ruch shooting, according to internal documents.

When asked why he was coming forward then, Churchill said he was near retirement and "I am just concerned that something is going to happen unless there is a rein pulled in."

David Garrett, the armed man killed by police in the parking lot of Fairview on Nov. 18, 1998, threatened the lives of several children and police officers during the incident.

According to investigation reports of the Fairview shooting, Merica was one of the first officers to open fire at Garrett, who was in a car, had a gun and demanded that police let him see his son.

Merica told investigators he saw Garrett aim a handgun at police officers trying to evacuate children from the parking lot and opened fire with his semiautomatic rifle.

Ludington heard the shots, believed they were coming from Garrett and fired his service revolver once, killing Garrett, according to reports from the shooting.

In voicing his concern about Merica wanting to shoot someone, Ludington said, "I like a lot of stuff that involve firearms, but I do not relish the fact of pulling a trigger on another human being."

Churchill said Merica believed officers should use deadly force whenever they're given the opportunity and criticized two Normal police officers who were given an award for ending a standoff with a teenager armed with a gun.

Sgt. Dave Stephens reported that Merica said, "No one should get an award for not killing a guy that needed to be killed," according to reports from Crutcher's investigation.

According to Ludington, Merica said, "I would have just dumped the kid."