A Joliet man who was on parole is dead and a police officer remains on paid administrative leave following a fatal shooting this week, officials said.



Shaquille Barrow, 20, died Tuesday morning at Presence St. Joseph Medical Center after being shot twice by a Joliet police officer. Barrow and another man were stopped on Richards Street Monday afternoon after police received a call regarding a theft.

Advertisement

While the officer was searching Barrow, he noticed the butt of a handgun sticking out from his waist/pocket area, according to a news release from the Joliet Police Department. The officer, who has not been identified, drew his Taser and told Barrow not to move.

Barrow fled and as the officer followed, he noticed Barrow reaching for the handgun, police said. The officer "fired (his weapon) out of fear for his safety and the safety of others in the area," according to a statement from Joliet Police Chief Brian Benton. Barrow was transported to the hospital where he died Tuesday morning.

Advertisement

Police recovered a loaded .357 handgun from Barrow at the scene. The handgun has been sent out for analysis, Benton said.

Barrow was on parole for aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, police said.

Benton said police have had numerous contacts with Barrow and that he was the victim of a shooting earlier this year.

According to court files, Barrow pleaded guilty to a residential burglary in 2012 and aggravated unlawful use of a weapon in 2014. He was sentenced to three years in the Department of Corrections on the latter charge and according to court files was released in April 2014. Barrow also pleaded guilty in January to a charge of resisting a police officer and was scheduled for a sentencing hearing April 15.

Police officers were initially responding to a call from a woman reporting a theft. The woman told police she was following the suspects, but one of them threatened to shoot her if she continued to follow them. The victim was able to provide a clothing description of the offenders and their location.

Police are searching for the second suspect, Shawn Miller, involved in the incident. A Will County judge has issued an arrest warrant for the 21-year-old Joliet man on charges of obstructing justice and assault. Bond was set at $30,000 for Miller, who remains at large.

Benton said the officer will remain on administrative leave pending the results of a review of the shooting. He said the officer is a 14-year veteran of the department, serves as a trainer and has an "excellent work history." He was not injured and has not been involved in any other shootings, Benton added.

Police are asking anyone with information about the incident call 815-724-3020.