Milwaukee police said one of their officers had to shoot a man who was threatening his estranged wife with a knife.Police said they were called to a home on Plainfield Avenue near Jasper Avenue just before midnight Thursday. The call involved a wanted suspect threatening his wife with a knife.VIDEO: Police shoot man threatening wife Officers forced their way into the home and found 45-year-old Tyrone Ryerson Lawrence threatening his wife with a knife.Police said the man refused to drop his knife. An officer, fearing the man would stab his wife, fired and shot the man. He died at the scene.WISN 12 News obtained court records in which Lawrence's wife detailed years of abuse saying, "Tyrone had my head twisted as far as it would go.” And "He said, I wanted to kill you."In October, his wife filed for divorce, and a judge granted her a restraining order. Police arrested Lawrence in January for violating it by repeatedly calling and showing up at the house.Police said the man did injure the woman, and she was treated at the scene.Neighbor Alan Plucinski said the Lawrences were nice neighbors with two little kids, who were in the house Thursday night.“A lady officer was carrying a kid, she was carrying a kid, and they were sitting here in the police car for an awful long time, just about all night,” Plucinski said.The children were not hurt.The officer involved in the shooting is a 27-year-old man with six years of service.Police said the man who was killed had a No Contact Order in place and had a history of domestic violence.The officer has been placed on administrative duty, which is standard procedure. Milwaukee police said they will hand the investigation over to an outside agency.If you need help or knows someone who does, click here for some domestic violence resources.

Milwaukee police said one of their officers had to shoot a man who was threatening his estranged wife with a knife.

Police said they were called to a home on Plainfield Avenue near Jasper Avenue just before midnight Thursday. The call involved a wanted suspect threatening his wife with a knife.

Advertisement Related Content Officer involved in fatal shooting identified

VIDEO: Police shoot man threatening wife

Officers forced their way into the home and found 45-year-old Tyrone Ryerson Lawrence threatening his wife with a knife.



Police said the man refused to drop his knife. An officer, fearing the man would stab his wife, fired and shot the man. He died at the scene.

WISN 12 News obtained court records in which Lawrence's wife detailed years of abuse saying, "Tyrone had my head twisted as far as it would go.” And "He said, I wanted to kill you."

In October, his wife filed for divorce, and a judge granted her a restraining order. Police arrested Lawrence in January for violating it by repeatedly calling and showing up at the house.

Police said the man did injure the woman, and she was treated at the scene.



Neighbor Alan Plucinski said the Lawrences were nice neighbors with two little kids, who were in the house Thursday night.

“A lady officer was carrying a kid, she was carrying a kid, and they were sitting here in the police car for an awful long time, just about all night,” Plucinski said.



The children were not hurt.

The officer involved in the shooting is a 27-year-old man with six years of service.



Police said the man who was killed had a No Contact Order in place and had a history of domestic violence.

The officer has been placed on administrative duty, which is standard procedure. Milwaukee police said they will hand the investigation over to an outside agency.

If you need help or knows someone who does, click here for some domestic violence resources.