Lester Randolph Brown died at the scene, sheriff says

A man was shot Monday after he pulled a gun on officers in Transylvania County, according to Sheriff David Mahoney. Mahoney said deputies were trying to serve a search warrant at Lester Randolph Brown's home on Talley Road.He said the warrant was based on information that Brown was making illegal alcohol. During the execution search warrant, Brown pulled a gun on officers and officers fired shots at Brown, Mahoney said. Mahoney said Brown, 58, died at the scene.A Transylvania County deputy and a NC Alcohol Law Enforcement agent suffered minor injuries during the incident."This is an incredibly tragic incident”, Mahoney said. "It is the type of situation that law enforcement officers have to train for, but hope and pray they never have to be in. Our thoughts and prayers are with the officers involved, their families, and the Brown family.”Mahoney asked the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation to conduct an investigation into the incident.The Transylvania County deputies involved in the shooting are both veteran officers,according to Mahoney.One is assigned to the Patrol Division with 25 years of service and the other is assigned to the Criminal Investigations Division with 8 years of service. Both deputies have been temporarily reassigned pending the conclusion of the SBI investigation.

A man was shot Monday after he pulled a gun on officers in Transylvania County, according to Sheriff David Mahoney.



Mahoney said deputies were trying to serve a search warrant at Lester Randolph Brown's home on Talley Road.



Advertisement

He said the warrant was based on information that Brown was making illegal alcohol.

During the execution search warrant, Brown pulled a gun on officers and officers fired shots at Brown, Mahoney said.

Mahoney said Brown, 58, died at the scene.



A Transylvania County deputy and a NC Alcohol Law Enforcement agent suffered minor injuries during the incident.



"This is an incredibly tragic incident”, Mahoney said. "It is the type of situation that law enforcement officers have to train for, but hope and pray they never have to be in. Our thoughts and prayers are with the officers involved, their families, and the Brown family.”

Mahoney asked the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation to conduct an investigation into the incident.

The Transylvania County deputies involved in the shooting are both veteran officers,according to Mahoney.



One is assigned to the Patrol Division with 25 years of service and the other is assigned to the Criminal Investigations Division with 8 years of service.



Both deputies have been temporarily reassigned pending the conclusion of the SBI investigation.







