Hoover Cop Shoot.jpg

A man was shot and killed by HJoover police officers after a confrontation while police were investigating a domestic incident on Valley Street in the Bluff Park area of Hoover Tuesday, March 10, 2015.

(Jon Reed/jreed@al.com)

A man shot to death by Hoover police had a history of mental illness and a previous domestic violence arrest, court records show.

The Jefferson County Coroner's Office today identified the man as William Russell Smith. Smith was 53.

Hoover officers were called to the 700 block of Valley Street in Bluff Park at 5:34 p.m., when a neighbor called to report a domestic disturbance, according to Hoover police Capt. Gregg Rector.

Officers weren't able to find the domestic incident, though someone did see vehicles leaving the scene. Those vehicles were found after 6 p.m. near the Piggly Wiggly at Shades Mountain Plaza, off Clearbrook Road, Rector said. There, police found three people who had been involved in the incident, including one woman who had a minor cut.

Rector said officers then went back to the original house on Valley Street to try to talk to the fourth person involved in the incident. Two officers found Smith, who was armed, and the officers shot the man.

Smith was taken to UAB Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 8:05 p.m. Authorities said he lived at the Valley Street home with his daughter. It wasn't clear who else was at the home at the time of the domestic incident, or whether the woman cut was his daughter or someone else.

Police said today they couldn't comment further on the case because it has been turned over to the State Bureau of Investigation, which is standard procedure for police-involved shootings. The two officers are on leave pending the investigation.

Court records show Smith was arrested in Shelby County in January 2013 on a charge of third-degree domestic violence involving his mother. His mother, however, wrote a letter to the court saying, "My son has never touched me in anger to hurt me. He has never threatened me in any way. I have never had any reason whatsoever to be in fear of him for my safety."

The charge against Smith was dismissed in February 2013, saying Smith was released to Brookwood Medical Center "due to a significant history of mental health issues." The release order also said that while Smith was in the hospital, his physical health deteriorated substantially and that he was scheduled to have a double amputation. He did have the amputation, but wore prosthetics.

Efforts to reach Smith's family for comment were unsuccessful. Hoover police released the following requested information about their prior run-ins with Smith:

On February 21, 2015 at 1:00 p.m. officers responded to 720 Valley Street on a domestic dispute between William Russell Smith and his 53 year old ex-wife. The altercation was verbal only and no arrests were made.

On February 21, 2015 at 7:54 p.m. officers responded to 720 Valley Street on a domestic dispute between William Russell Smith and his 53 year old ex-wife. The altercation was verbal only and no arrests were made.

On February 22, 2015 at 1:55 p.m. officers responded to 720 Valley Street on a domestic dispute between William Russell Smith and his 25 year old daughter. The altercation was verbal only and no arrests were made.

On February 23, 2015 at 4:42 p.m. William Russell Smith was arrested for Theft 3rd degree at Wal-Mart on John Hawkins Parkway. He was observed concealing an 18 volt Black and Decker battery and leaving the store without paying. He posted bond and was released from the Hoover City Jail at 8:00 p.m. on same date.

Updated at 3:18 p.m. to include prior history from Hoover police.