A Kingman, Ariz., man pointing a BB gun at a policeman was shot and killed in Kingman late Wednesday night, according to authorities.

A Kingman man pointing a BB gun at a policeman was shot and killed in Kingman Wednesday, according to authorities. (Courtesy Mohave County Sheriff’s Office)

A Kingman man pointing a BB gun at a policeman was shot and killed in Kingman Wednesday, according to authorities. (Courtesy Mohave County Sheriff’s Office)

KINGMAN, Ariz. — A Kingman man pointing a BB gun at a policeman was shot and killed in Kingman Wednesday, according to authorities.

The Mohave County Sheriff’s Office is conducting an independent investigation of the officer-involved shooting death of Ryan Dean Burgess, 31.

Agency spokeswoman Trish Carter said Kingman police officer Chaz Truver and officer Wayne Hollon responded at 9:45 p.m. to a domestic violence call in the 2200 block of Lucille Avenue.

Carter said Burgess’ mother told dispatchers that her son was punching holes in the wall of the residence and was acting in a violent manner. Carter said officers were approaching the home when Burgess exited the front door while pointing a CO2-powered gun at Hollon.

“Officer Truver immediately gave commands to drop the gun and then fired several rounds, striking and killing Burgess,” Carter said in a news release.

She said officers subsequently identified Burgess’ weapon as a BB gun.

“The BB gun was a replica of a Colt Defender 1911 semi-automatic pistol,” Carter said. “The weapon is the exact same size, shape and weight of the real weapon.”

“Alcohol is believed to be a contributing factor,” Carter said.

An autopsy is scheduled Friday.

Truver graduated from the police academy in December and was near the end of a 16-week training program for new officers. He was under the supervision of Hollon, a 13-year department veteran who was treated and released for a knee injury sustained during the encounter.

Truver was placed on paid administrative leave pending review of the incident, standard procedure in Arizona officer-involved shootings.

Kingman police said alcohol was a suspected factor in another officer-involved violent encounter with Burgess in the same neighborhood last fall. Officers responded at 11:15 p.m. Oct. 19 when a woman told dispatchers that a man was breaking and tearing down her wooden fence.

Arriving officers identified Burgess as a suspect and became involved in a struggle with him as he resisted arrest, according to Jennifer Sochocki, a spokeswoman for the Kingman Police Department. Incident reports indicated officers used knee strikes and a Taser to subdue Burgess, who was charged with criminal damage and resisting arrest.