''We're not putting him back on patrol until this investigation is concluded,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''The normal process is to have someone be taken and assigned to the borough office for three days. In this case, he will be assigned to the borough command until the conclusion of the investigation.''

The incident is being investigated by the office of Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney. He is expected to present evidence to a grand jury, which will determine whether the shooting was justified under state law, a standard procedure in fatal shootings by the police. At the same time, investigators from the Manhattan South investigations unit, assisted by the Internal Affairs Bureau's Group 54, which looks into incidents of excessive use of police force, are conducting a parallel administrative inquiry into the officer's conduct.

Mr. Kelly said he had asked Mr. Morgenthau to expedite the investigation.

Neither the police nor the district attorney's investigators have yet interviewed Officer Ryan, who had not previously fired his weapon in the line of duty during his five years on the police force. Mr. Kelly said he had been asked by the district attorney's office not to question the officer, a request that is routine in police shooting cases because any statements made by an officer in such formal Police Department interviews are made under immunity.

The shooting occurred while Officer Ryan, assigned to the Fifth Precinct, was on patrol with another officer and a sergeant. The three men saw someone they believed was breaking into a van and watched him for several minutes. Officer Ryan approached the man on foot, on the driver's side of the van, while the other officer and the sergeant approached from the opposite side. Police officials have said that the two other men, Officer Carlos Nunez and Sgt. Steve Lyle, heard Officer Ryan shout, ''Police, don't move!'' and then heard a single gunshot.

Wilmer Rodriguez-Nunci, a lawyer who said he had been providing Mr. Mercado's family with legal counsel, said the family planned to file a lawsuit over the shooting. ''This was an unjustifiable shooting,'' he said. ''whether it was an accident or whether it was intentional, it doesn't matter. There will be an action against the City of New York, as a department, and against this officer.''