Deputy says man on ATV tried to run him over

Authorities said a 36-year-old man who was shot and killed by a Pike County deputy tried to run down the deputy with an ATV.County coroner Percy Pittman said Troy Ray Boyd died Sunday,The incident happened about 6:30 p.m. Sunday on McEwien Swamp Road in Ruth, which is northeast of McComb.A witness, who didn't want to be identified, told 16 WAPT News that she called the Sheriff's Department after seeing a man with a machete riding a four-wheeler."The law came streaming by with their lights on," the witness said. "I called the law back and told them they missed him. He came up here (and) turned to this road right here."Sheriff Mark Shepherd said Deputy Terry Beadle tried to stop Boyd, who then tried to run Beadle over with his four-wheeler. Beadle opened fire, killing Boyd, Shepherd said. "We pulled up to the scene, you know, where they had the road blocked," the witness said. "We pulled up there and I asked the officer if (Boyd) was OK, and he just shook his head."Beadle is on administrative leave while the investigation -- which is being handled by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation -- is underway.The sheriff said Boyd was in possession of several weapons, including a machete, when he was shot.

Authorities said a 36-year-old man who was shot and killed by a Pike County deputy tried to run down the deputy with an ATV.

County coroner Percy Pittman said Troy Ray Boyd died Sunday,



Advertisement Related Content Pike County deputy indicted on manslaughter charge

The incident happened about 6:30 p.m. Sunday on McEwien Swamp Road in Ruth, which is northeast of McComb.

A witness, who didn't want to be identified, told 16 WAPT News that she called the Sheriff's Department after seeing a man with a machete riding a four-wheeler.



"The law came streaming by with their lights on," the witness said. "I called the law back and told them they missed him. He came up here (and) turned to this road right here."

Sheriff Mark Shepherd said Deputy Terry Beadle tried to stop Boyd, who then tried to run Beadle over with his four-wheeler. Beadle opened fire, killing Boyd, Shepherd said.

"We pulled up to the scene, you know, where they had the road blocked," the witness said. "We pulled up there and I asked the officer if (Boyd) was OK, and he just shook his head."

Beadle is on administrative leave while the investigation -- which is being handled by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation -- is underway.

The sheriff said Boyd was in possession of several weapons, including a machete, when he was shot.

