A lawsuit filed Wednesday accuses two Chicago police officers of causing the electrocution this week of a 17-year-old youth by pushing him onto elevated train tracks following a foot chase.

The allegations were disputed by police officials, who said the officers were well over 100 feet away when Billy Kash Smith fell Monday onto the electrified third rail of the CTA's Green Line tracks at Cicero Avenue.

Advertisement

"The witnesses are indicating that this young man had been chased onto the platform, was absolutely exhausted, was bent over at the edge of the platform, when the [officer] pushed him onto the third rail, causing his death," said James Montgomery, an attorney representing Smith's family in the lawsuit.

The suit, filed in Cook County Circuit Court, lists the City of Chicago and "unknown police officers" as defendants.

Advertisement

Cannon Lambert, another attorney for the family, said two witnesses have come forward, saying they saw Smith being pushed from the platform.

Lambert said the witnesses came forward independently. Smith's mother, who described him as "a good kid, loved by everyone," said one of the witnesses showed up at her house to tell what he had seen.

Police sources said other witnesses, including the train's conductor, contradict the lawsuit's allegations.

Police have said Smith and others were seen dealing drugs near the stop. When police approached, Smith allegedly ran, beginning a chase that led up the stairs of the Cicero station and onto the Chicago Transit Authority platform.

A train was stopped at the station, and Smith allegedly jumped on the train and ordered the conductor to shut the doors and move the train. Police said the conductor closed the doors, but after seeing officers race up the stairs, refused to move the train.

At that, Smith allegedly pulled an emergency lever and popped open the doors. He then jumped from the platform to the tracks, in front of the train, and began running, police said.

He had run about 100 feet when, according to police, he slipped and fell onto the electrified rail.