The carjacking suspect that led officers on an hours-long search in Natomas after he was pulled over is dead, officials said. Officials on Tuesday evening surrounded, then entered, a home in Sacramento's Natomas area where they believed the carjacking suspect -- who an officer shot at earlier in the day -- was hiding.Watch report: Search for suspect shot by CHP officers continuesThe Sacramento County Sheriff's Department said homicide investigators had been called to the home.Reports indicate authorities entered the home just after 8 p.m.It is unclear exactly when the suspect died.People in surrounding houses on Bridgecross Drive were evacuated from those homes, police said just before 7:30 p.m. Tuesday.The suspect was hiding out at the home of someone he was related to, officials said. Originally, several of the man's family members were inside -- but they were able to escape when police surrounded the house.The situation began to unfold earlier Tuesday, several miles away in Rio Linda, when an officer opened fire on the man during a traffic stop, the California Highway Patrol said.The suspect would later get away in a stolen vehicle, leading officers on a large search into Natomas, officers said.The intersection of Bridgecross Drive and Natomas Boulevard was blocked off.The earlier shooting took place about 3:45 p.m. at Dry Creek and Elkhorn boulevards after the suspect was suspected of speeding on a motorcycle.It's unknown why the CHP officer opened fire.After the shooting, officers said that the suspect stole a Ford Bronco.Three nearby schools, including Dry Creek Elementary School and Rio Linda High School, were on lockdown, according to officers. The lockdowns were lifted as of 4:20 p.m.No CHP officers were ever injured.

The carjacking suspect that led officers on an hours-long search in Natomas after he was pulled over is dead, officials said.

Officials on Tuesday evening surrounded, then entered, a home in Sacramento's Natomas area where they believed the carjacking suspect -- who an officer shot at earlier in the day -- was hiding.

Watch report: Search for suspect shot by CHP officers continues

The Sacramento County Sheriff's Department said homicide investigators had been called to the home.

Reports indicate authorities entered the home just after 8 p.m.



It is unclear exactly when the suspect died.

People in surrounding houses on Bridgecross Drive were evacuated from those homes, police said just before 7:30 p.m. Tuesday.

The suspect was hiding out at the home of someone he was related to, officials said. Originally, several of the man's family members were inside -- but they were able to escape when police surrounded the house.

The situation began to unfold earlier Tuesday, several miles away in Rio Linda, when an officer opened fire on the man during a traffic stop, the California Highway Patrol said.

The suspect would later get away in a stolen vehicle, leading officers on a large search into Natomas, officers said.

The intersection of Bridgecross Drive and Natomas Boulevard was blocked off.

The earlier shooting took place about 3:45 p.m. at Dry Creek and Elkhorn boulevards after the suspect was suspected of speeding on a motorcycle.

It's unknown why the CHP officer opened fire.

After the shooting, officers said that the suspect stole a Ford Bronco.

Three nearby schools, including Dry Creek Elementary School and Rio Linda High School, were on lockdown, according to officers. The lockdowns were lifted as of 4:20 p.m.

No CHP officers were ever injured.