Before two St. Paul police SWAT team members fatally shot a 28-year-old man during a standoff last year, he had aimed a rifle at officers, according to the Ramsey County attorney’s office, which said Wednesday that a grand jury had determined the officers’ actions were justified.

On March 16, when police encountered Justin Todd Tolkinen, he had been drinking for hours, was shouting about the government and would not talk to a trained crisis negotiator, according to a county attorney’s office memo. Tolkinen’s AR-15 rifle had a round loaded in the chamber and two magazines with 59 rounds. Police said they later found 10 additional firearms, plus a large amount of ammunition inside the White Bear Avenue home near Interstate 94.

Tolkinen had been wearing an armored vest, which stopped some of the officers’ rifle rounds.

Tolkinen’s father reported his son had “stopped taking his medication for his mental health condition because he could not afford it,” though police determined Tolkinen had “tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of firearms, ammunition, and paraphernalia,” two large, flat-screen TVs and two vehicles, the memo said.

Jeff Storms, an attorney representing Tolkinen’s family, said Wednesday they plan to conduct their own investigation to “try to bring closure … to a very grieving family.”

He has questions about what happened, including, “Why it is the negotiator should spend such a significant amount of time with Mr. Tolkinen without shots being fired, but a shooting seems to have transpired within minutes of the SWAT team’s arrival?” Storms said. Police first responded about 3:15 p.m. and Tolkinen was killed around 5 p.m.

Tolkinen, who grew up in Woodbury and had attended Woodbury High School, was remembered by people who knew him as smiley and loving. He also had a history of struggles with mental illness and drugs.

The grand jury found “officers followed the law of the state of Minnesota in … using deadly force to protect themselves and the community” in the Tolkinen case, said St. Paul police spokesman Sgt. Mike Ernster. But he said there is a larger issue at hand — “the daily volume of calls officers respond to involving people battling mental illness and the lack of resources they have to effectively address their mental health issues.”

The county attorney’s office released a memo about the Tolkinen incident Wednesday, saying it was doing so “for the benefit of the public to understand the facts of this incident.”

But Storms questioned its release, saying the “overwhelming majority of the negative information” it contains about Tolkinen “is wholly irrelevant to whether or not the force was used was reasonable” and it was information that officers didn’t know when they shot him.

“It’s clear the release of this memo was a calculated attempt to sway public opinion towards law enforcement in this matter,” Storms said.

The memo, dated Tuesday, from criminal division director Richard Dusterhoft to County Attorney John Choi gives the following account:

Tolkinen lived in Washington County from 2003 and 2015 “and had multiple contacts with various law enforcement agencies there,” many times “exhibiting mental health problems,” the memo said. The court ordered him civilly committed as mentally ill and chemically dependent in 2005, 2006 and 2008. Relatives said he had struggled with methamphetamine and alcohol addiction.

On March 16, a woman whom Tolkinen had known for a year and a half, but had been dating for a week, got off work at 1:30 a.m. and brought liquor to the St. Paul home he was renting on White Bear Avenue, near Wilson Avenue. They stayed up all night drinking and continued to drink into the day. Tolkinen’s blood-alcohol concentration was found to be 0.17 when he died, which would be just over twice the legal limit to drive.

About 3:15 p.m., the woman left to get food and a neighbor noticed Tolkinen was wearing what appeared to be a bulletproof vest. Tolkinen came outside holding a rifle and started screaming.

The neighbor and two other people said Tolkinen made ” ‘combat moves’ while yelling about the government, saying that he wished the cops were there, and saying that he couldn’t wait to get into the Army,” the memo said. One of the witnesses called 911.

A responding officer saw Tolkinen was holding the rifle. He set it “just inside the door to his house, then stood on the deck holding the screen door open,” the memo said. Tolkinen would not follow police commands to step away.

Police could also see an extended handgun magazine in the front pocket of Tolkinen’s armored vest and officers “were concerned about additional weapons in the house,” Dusterhoft wrote, noting later that “their concerns were proven to be valid.”

A crisis negotiator arrived, who described Tolkinen as “going from screaming and ranting to quiet, before beginning to scream again” and the “negotiator tried unsuccessfully to negotiate or even communicate effectively with Tolkinen,” the memo said.

SWAT officers fired shotgun-propelled beanbag rounds to try to force Tolkinen away from his rifle and take him “into custody safely,” the memo said. The beanbags struck Tolkinen, but “as the SWAT officers advanced around the deck, Tolkinen turned, moved into the house, and picked up the rifle,” Dusterhoft continued. Officer Mark Farrington saw Tolkinen aim it at officers.

“If Officer Farrington had dropped to the ground, the next officer behind him would have been in Tolkinen’s line of fire,” the memo said. “Instead, fearing for his life and for the life of the officers behind him, Officer Farrington shot Tolkinen.”

Tolkinen retreated a short distance into the house, still holding the rifle, and Farrington continued to fire. Officer Brian Hall saw Tolkinen in the living room with the rifle and fired one round before Tolkinen disappeared behind a wall and out of Hall’s view.

“Tolkinen was struck multiple times by shots fired by Officers Farrington and Hall,” and Tolkinen’s rifle was found next to him in the living room, the memo said.

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262.

Follow her at twitter.com/MaraGottfried.