Karl Etters

Democrat staff writer

Update 5:30 Thursday

The man killed by a Tallahassee police officer Wednesday at Lake Ella has been identified as 64-year-old Garland Lee Wingo I.

Wingo was shot and killed by TPD Officer Zackari Jones, who has been with the department since 2012. Jones encountered Wingo as he was walking in the street with a weapon, which later turned out to be a handgun. Police were called to the park after someone reported Wingo sitting on a bench and holding a handgun.

Details of what transpired between Jones and Wingo have not been released, but TPD Spokesman David Northway told reporters Wednesday night Jones "made contact and at some point the officer had to draw his weapon and fire, striking the man."

Wingo was pronounced dead on the scene after police attempted to administer emergency medical care. The handgun was found near his body during the collection of evidence, Northway said.

Jones has been put on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, which is routine when an officer fires his weapon in the line of duty. Wingo is the second individual killed by a TPD officer this year. A Leon County grand jury found officer David Stith's fatal shooting of 28-year-old Jeremy Lett in February was found to be a justifiable use of force. In 2014, four individuals were killed in gun fire with local law enforcement.

Police are continuing to investigate the incident and are asking anyone who may have witnessed it and did not provide a statement to officers on scene to contact (850) 891-4200.

Update 9:35 Wednesday

On a sunny afternoon at Lake Ella, a man brandishing a handgun was shot and killed by a Tallahassee police officer Wednesday.

Police were called to the park, which abuts the Tallahassee police headquarters, around 6:55 p.m. in reference to a white man sitting on a park bench with a weapon, according to TPD Spokesman David Northway.

The responding officer approached the man who was then walking in the street and "made contact and at some point the officer had to draw his weapon and fire, striking the man," Northway said.

Police attempted to provide medical assistance, but he died on scene. His identity has not been released pending the notification of next of kin.

The officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol when an officer fires his weapon in the line of duty.

Northway could not provide details about what transpired between the two, but a handgun was located near the man during the collection of evidence.

"This case is just unfolding as we speak right now. I do not have any other information than what I've provided you," Northway said.

Homicide investigators were on the scene gathering evidence and a white panel van was towed from the area during the course of the investigation. Northway could not confirm the significance of the van Wednesday night.

Original story

The Tallahassee Police Department is investigating a crime scene at Lake Ella.

Details of what type of incident they are investigating are not known at this time.

A reporter is on scene.

Check back with Tallahassee.com for updates.