Derek Gilliam

A report of suspicious people turned into a police chase and shooting Thursday afternoon, with one suspect dead and another being sought.

Police were called about noon to Castellano Avenue and Helena Street in Northwest Jacksonville about suspicious activity.

Chief Michael Bruno said the concerned caller was able to tell dispatchers the men were armed and provided a licence plate number, which matched a stolen vehicle.

Sgt. John Nobles spotted the stolen car with two people nearby about 2 p.m. in a cemetery, Bruno said. The suspects saw the officer, then ran toward their vehicle. They tried to ram Nobles' patrol car off the road while fleeing the area, Bruno said.

Nobles gave chase until the suspects turned down a dirt road in the 1800 block of Helena, lost control and struck a tree.

Both the driver and the passenger got out with guns in their hands as Nobles arrived, Bruno said. The passenger saw Nobles and threw his gun toward the front of the wrecked car. The driver turned toward Nobles and pointed his gun at the officer, but didn't fire and ran.

Nobles fired his weapon twice, but it is unclear if he hit either as they kept running.

"As they exited the yard and toward Helena Street, the passenger began to run east and the driver ran toward the west," Bruno said. "Sgt. Nobles kept his eyes on the driver and noticed he crouched down near the corner of the house. He knew this was the person who pointed the firearm at him earlier."

The suspect turned toward him, and Nobles fired two more shots, Bruno said.

"At that point he observed the suspect go down," Bruno said.

The unidentified suspect was taken to a hospital where he died, Bruno said.

The other man got away on foot north toward Rutledge Avenue. He is described as a young black man about 6-foot and 160 to 170 pounds with long dreadlocks pulled into a ponytail. He was wearing a black T-shirt and khaki shorts.

Two guns were recovered from the scene, but it wasn't immediately clear if the suspect tossed his weapon or if he was still armed when shot.

Nobles has been involved in at least two previous police shootings, including one in 2009 that also resulted in a death.

A news conference has been scheduled for Friday morning to release more details.

Anyone with information can contact the Sheriff's Office at (904) 630-0500 or First Coast Crime Stoppers at (866) 845-8477 (845-TIPS) to remain anonymous and be eligible for rewards. Or email JSOCrimeTips@jaxsheriff.org or rewards@fccrimestoppers.com.

Derek Gilliam: (904) 359-4619