The former New Jersey cop who killed two of his passengers in a drunken crash on Staten Island pleaded for a judge's mercy Wednesday -- but then he wondered aloud why the victims didn't just take an Uber that night.

Pedro Abad's rambling, half-hour statement included references to God and the power of prayer, but it didn't spare him the maximum sentence for the 2015 crash -- eight-and-a-third to 25 years in prison.

Advertisement

"I ask you for a second chance to see what I can do. Keep an eye on me," Abad asked Staten Island Supreme Court Judge Mario Mattei.

Abad insisted that he didn't remember his night of drinking at the Curves strip club in Charleston, his three passengers getting into his car or his wrong-way crash into a tractor-trailer on the West Shore Expressway.

Advertisement

"They should have taken an Uber home... They chose to get in my car," he told the judge.

Abad — who repeatedly spoke to reporters outside court during the trial — asked in a letter for probation or just a year behind bars, and reiterated that request at his sentencing Wednesday.

The former New Jersey cop who killed two of his passengers in a drunken crash on Staten Island pleaded for a judge’s mercy Wednesday. (Todd Maisel/New York Daily News)

But Mattei, who said he was taken aback by the Uber remark, had different plans.

"You are all about you," the jurist told Abad.

Mattei also took issue with Abad's tone-deaf request for probation.

"You have no idea of the magnitude of what you did. You weren't an accident waiting to happen, you were a time bomb waiting to explode," Mattei said. "I've seen the damage. I've seen what you can do that one day."

Assistant District Attorney Mark Palladino referred to Abad as a "narcissistic, self-centered, reckless criminal."

Frank C. Viggiano was killed in a wrong-way crash along with civilian Joseph Rodriguez early Friday after a Staten Island strip club bash. (Linden Police)

Abad was involved in a string of car crashes in the decade before the fatal crash, and had two prior drunken driving arrests.

He posted prolifically on Instagram, sharing photos of booze even while his license was suspended for a past drunken driving bust.

Advertisement

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

On March 20, 2015, Abad left the Curves topless club and turned the wrong way onto a service road moments before the crash.

His blood alcohol level measured at .24% — more than three times the legal limit.

The wreck killed fellow Linden Police Officer Frank Viggiano, 28, and their pal Joseph Rodriguez, 28, and left a third passenger, former Linden cop Patrick Kudlac, 25, badly injured.

Families of victims in court to give impact statements including Roseann Rodriguez and dad Angelo who lost son and brother Joseph. (Todd Maisel/New York Daily News)

A jury convicted him of aggravated vehicular homicide, aggravated vehicular assault, manslaughter and other charges last month.

"I actually hope you die before it ever comes time for you to be released," Joseph Rodriguez's sister, Roseann Rodriguez, said in a blistering statement in court.

Viggiano's sister, Kathleen, carried a picture of her brother into the courthouse.

"There was no remorse there. We felt he didn't care that he killed two people," she said of Abad.

Advertisement

With John Annese