SANTA CLARA — The Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office has cleared two city of Santa Clara police officers in the fatal 2015 shooting of a Tracy man they reportedly saw rob a convenience store and fire a gun a clerk.

Around 2 a.m. on March 22, Devin Gates, 24, donned a ski mask and used a large revolver to rob the 7-Eleven at 2105 Scott Blvd., according to a report released Thursday. Gates reportedly told the clerk he would shoot him if he didn’t give him money.

According to the report, the clerk handed over a $20 bill, but it wasn’t enough for Gates, who yelled “Give me all of it!” and fired a single round into the floor. Fearing for his life, the clerk stuffed more money into a brown paper bag Gates was holding.

Meanwhile, officers Josh Craig and Randy Van Diemen has just pulled into the parking lot of the 7-Eleven — Craig to use the restroom and Van Diemen to talk with Craig — and witnessed both the robbery and the shooting, according to the report.

Gates emerged from the convenience store, looked at the officers and ran toward a row of parked cars. The officers opened fire — Craig with an AR-15 and Van Diemen with a Glock 21 — when Gates ignored their commands to stop, according to the report.

“Gates posed a significant threat to their lives and the lives of others,” said Deputy District Attorney Carolyn Powell. “Recognizing this immediate safety risk and intending to impede Gates from causing more harm or escaping, the officers had no other means by which they could neutralize the threat than to discharge their weapons.”

Three rounds hit Gates, according to the report. An occupied pick-up truck also was struck twice. A total of five .223 casings and three .45 rounds were collected at the scene.

Emergency medical personnel pronounced Gates deceased at the scene. A Colt Trooper Mk III .357 Magnum and a bag containing $345 were reportedly found near his body.

According to the report, Gates had cocaine and marijuana in his system at the time of his death. The report also detailed Gates’ criminal history, which involved a conviction for possession of a controlled substance, and he was identified as the primary suspect in a similar armed robbery at a Tracy convenience store five days earlier.

Brittany Schuyler, Gates’ girlfriend, was waiting in the driver’s seat of a rental car outside the 7-Eleven. Schuyler reportedly said the couple was returning to Tracy after visiting family in Santa Clara and claimed to know nothing of Gates’ plans to rob the convenience store.

According to the report, Schuyler told police Gates would’ve shot the officers if they hadn’t shot him first.

“He would kill anyone that tried to put his life in danger,” she said. “He hates the police.”

Contact Jason Green at 408-920-5006. Follow him at Twitter.com/jgreendailynews.