Two underage members of the Gaver family, 11 and 15, are being held at a juvenile detention

Ruth, 52, Peter, 55, Jeremiah, 28, and Nathaniel Gaver, 27, are currently in jail on a range of charges

The officer is expected to make a full recovery and Gaver will be sent to jail when he is healthy enough to leave the hospital

Suspect David Gaver was shot in the stomach and Cottonwood Police Sgt Jeremy Daniels, 31, was shot in the leg

One of the family members, Enoch Gaver, was killed in the fight

The family are part of a band called Matthew 24 Now, which reference a Bible verse dealing with the apocalypse

Eight members of the Gaver family engaged in a shootout with police in a Cottonwood, Arizona

The group who got into a deadly gunfight with police in a Cottonwood, Arizona Walmart parking lot on Saturday have been identified as the eight members of a Christian family street band from Idaho.

The Gaver family had allegedly been camping out in the parking lot for a few days when they had a confrontation with police which resulted in the death of Enoch Gaver. Ten-year Cottonwood Police veteran Sgt Jeremy Daniels, 31, and suspect David Gaver were also shot in the attack and hospitalized.

Meanwhile, the remaining members of the Gaver family have been jailed, including an 11-year-old and 15-year-old who were sent to a juvenile detention facility.

Scroll down for video

Behind bars: The suspects who engaged in a shootout with police in a Cottonwood, Arizona Walmart parking lot on Saturday have been identified as eight members of a Idaho family band. Above, two of the suspects, currently jailed: Jeremiah Gaver, 28 (left), and Nathaniel Gaver, 27 (right)

Fighting cops: Police say the shootout was sparked by one of the Gavers pushing a Walmart store employee while trying to use the building's restroom. Above, suspects Ruth and Peter Gaver, 52 and 55

Fatal: One member of the Gaver family was killed in the shootout, now identified as Enoch Gaver. When police arrived on the scene, the Gavers 'immediately' started attacking, according to the Arizona DPS

On duty: Cottonwood Police Sgt Jeremy Daniels, 31 (pictured), was shot in the leg during the attack but is expected to make a full recovery. One of the suspects, David Gaver, was shot in the abdomen and remains hospitalized

The Arizona Department of Public Safety, who are investigating the shooting, said it was sparked Saturday when a few members of the Gaver family went into the Walmart to use the bathroom, and one of the store employees followed them into the restroom.

At least one member of the Gaver family shoved the female employee, which led to the store calling 911.

When police arrived on the scene to investigate the incident, they found the Gavers in the parking lot where they had been living out of a large SUV for the past few days.

DPS spokesman Bart Graves says when the police arrived, the Gavers 'immediately' started attacking, according to AZ Central.

Witness Louie Solano told KPHO that the fight 'looked like a riot in the middle of the parking lot'.

'Lots of screams. Just screeching noise, like unreal, unreal,' Solano said.

'During the course of the fight, we believe there was a struggle for the officer's gun,' Graves said.

That's when three shots were fired, though it's not clear who had the gun at that point.

The shots killed Enoch Gaver and injured relative David Gaver and Sgt Jeremy Daniels.

Sgt Daniels was shot in the leg, while David Gaver was hit in the abdomen.

A Walmart employee who came to the aid of police suffered a sprained arm and cuts in the fight. Other officers were treated for lacerations, bruises and a twisted ankle.

Musical team: The Gavers were allegedly part of a band called Matthew 24 Now, which sometimes played outside a grocery store in Boise, Idaho. Above, a picture of the band from their Facebook page. Matthew 24 is a Bible verse dealing with the end of times

As of Tuesday, David Gaver was still hospitalized but once he is released he will be taken to jail to join four of his adult relatives.

Jeremiah Gaver, 28, is currently jailed under suspicion of aggravated assault, Peter Gaver, 55, for hindering prosecution and resisting arrest, Nathaniel Gaver, 27, for assault on a law-enforcement officer and Ruth Gaver, 52 for the same charge.

A boy and girl from the Gaver family are currently being held at the Prescott Juvenile Detention facility. Their identities have not been released.

Dwight D'Evelyn of the Yavapai County Sheriff's Office says the Gavers are being held on bonds ranging from $25,000 to $75,000.

Injuries: A Walmart store employee and other police officers were also injured in the incident, including lacerations and some broken bones

The Gavers are due in court for their first hearing on March 31. Graves says the family have not been cooperating with the DPS investigation.

According to Facebook, the family is part of a band called 'Matthew 24 Now' (they are also go by 'Busking in the Son' back in Idaho). The name refers to a Biblical passage dealing with the end of times.

In a message on the Facebook page, the family writes: 'We won't do any events where there's gonna be illegal drugs. Or any form of promiscuity.'