By: Dee Duren

A Tulsa police officer was involved in an auto-pedestrian crash that killed a man early Sunday morning in the 5900 block of South Lewis Avenue.

The man was crossing Lewis eastbound at about 1 a.m. when police say he stepped in front of a patrol car. He has been identified as 43-year-old James Moore of Tulsa.

"A male walked right out in front of him," said Corporal Dan Miller, Tulsa Police. "This individual was wearing some dark clothing, so they weren't able to actually see this person til the last second."

Miller said it happened in a fairly dark area with no crosswalk. Moore was hit just north of the Joe Creek bridge after leaving a nearby bar, police say.

"Two officers were traveling southbound on Lewis, saw a dark-colored object walk right out in front of them. The officer did strike the individual, right here on the north end of the bridge," he said.

EMSA medics checked out the officer at the scene.

"About the only witnesses we've got are the two officers who were traveling," he said. "If there is somebody that did see something they can feel free to give us a call at 596-9222 and have an officer come out."

Lewis was closed for several hours as traffic investigators gathered evidence.

"They'll pinpoint exactly where everything started, and the progress of how the incident happened - where he was hit, how the car moved, things like that," he said.

Police will also look at the black box on the patrol car to learn how fast the officer was driving. Miller didn't know if there was a dash camera in the patrol car.

The results of the investigation will be forwarded to the district attorney's office for review, he said.

Police were able to make notification to Moore's stepbrother Sunday morning.

Another pedestrian was struck not far away early Saturday, March 21, 2015. A man was hit near Joe Creek around 1:15 a.m. on 61st Street near South Trenton. That man survived.

3/21/2015 Related Story: Man Struck Crossing 71st Street Early Overnight Saturday

Miller recommended wearing light-colored, reflective clothing if possible while walking at night.

In an update Sunday afternoon, police say the officer has not been placed on administrative leave, and that the investigation has not shown any improper action on the officer's part.