Crime & Safety Napa Man Shot, Killed By Police In Vallejo Cops say he was armed with knife and firearm and advanced on officer. Victim's brother says otherwise. Reply

The man who was fatally shot by Vallejo police Saturday was identified today by his family as 37-year-old Phillip Conley of Napa.

Vallejo police said they encountered Conley in a parking lot at the Vallejo Corners Shopping Center on Admiral Callaghan Lane around 5:50 p.m. Police said Conley was agitated, armed with a large knife and had a firearm stuck in his waistband. Conley didn’t comply when he was ordered several times to drop the knife, and he advanced on the officer who then shot Conley, police said.

The gun turned out to be a replica firearm, police said. Conley was taken to a trauma center where he was pronounced dead at 7:50 p.m. Saturday.

Inside Conley’s truck was a letter from Conley apologizing for the trouble he caused by forcing police to end his life, police said. Conley’s brother Matthew Conley this afternoon disputed the police account of his brother’s death. He said the replica gun was a toy gun that belonged to one of his two sons, ages five and six. Conley also said his brother had previous contact with law enforcement but it involved a knife that was one inch too long, not a firearm.

Matthews said police have not disclosed to the family any of the contents of the letter found in the truck. He said his brother suffered mental health problems for years, and that’s it’s possible he wanted to commit suicide, but not by having police shoot him. “It doesn’t make sense,” Conley said.

“Things were looking up for him. He had a great day fishing in Napa that day and told us he would be back on Monday to see his sons,” Conley said. His brother was divorced and his sons live with their mother, Conley said. Phillip Conley lived in Napa and Marina in Monterey County, and he worked as a card dealer at Mortimer’s Casino in Marina, Matthew Conley said. “He was waiting to be promoted to floor manager,” Conley said. Police still have the pickup that belongs to his father, Conley said.