An attempted murder fugitive from Indian River County has been shot dead in Ft. Pierce, according to deputies.The St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office said Friday that Jamalis Hall, who was wanted for cutting his wife's throat, was killed while a U.S. Marshals task force attempted to arrest him.According to task force members, Hall was inside a van and refused to surrender. He lunged at a task force member with a filet knife, Sheriff Ken Mascara said.According to the sheriff, Hall was hiding out at his sister's house on Mayflower Road. Hall and his sister were pulling out of the driveway in a van when the task force moved in. Hall's sister, who was driving, pulled back into the driveway and put the van in park, deputies said.Mascara said the task force member who shot Hall was a St. Lucie County deputy and that he fired three times.Hall had been wanted for severely beating his wife Thursday morning in Vero Beach. Investigators said his wife suffered a deep cut to her throat and a broken nose. His wife told detectives they had been arguing about drug use and money when Hall attacked her.Also see: Dashcam video shows chase and crash in Lake CountyHall was considered armed, dangerous and mentally unstable.Related: Florida mug shots

An attempted murder fugitive from Indian River County has been shot dead in Ft. Pierce, according to deputies.

The St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office said Friday that Jamalis Hall, who was wanted for cutting his wife's throat, was killed while a U.S. Marshals task force attempted to arrest him.

Advertisement

According to task force members, Hall was inside a van and refused to surrender. He lunged at a task force member with a filet knife, Sheriff Ken Mascara said.

According to the sheriff, Hall was hiding out at his sister's house on Mayflower Road. Hall and his sister were pulling out of the driveway in a van when the task force moved in. Hall's sister, who was driving, pulled back into the driveway and put the van in park, deputies said.

Mascara said the task force member who shot Hall was a St. Lucie County deputy and that he fired three times.

Hall had been wanted for severely beating his wife Thursday morning in Vero Beach. Investigators said his wife suffered a deep cut to her throat and a broken nose. His wife told detectives they had been arguing about drug use and money when Hall attacked her.

Also see: Dashcam video shows chase and crash in Lake County

Hall was considered armed, dangerous and mentally unstable.

Related: Florida mug shots