George Barnes and Craig S. Semon TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

WEBSTER — The Charlton man shot and killed by local police early Friday morning had a history of violent and abusive behavior, according to court records.

Police shot and killed Neil Seifert, 40, of Putnam Road, Charlton, outside of 40 North Main St., according to Worcester District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr.

The officers were not struck, although Mr. Early said one shot came very close to an officer. An officer, though, was struck by debris that was created when a shot hit the house, he said.

The confrontation, just after midnight, grew out of an alleged domestic assault, police said. It came about two hours after police responded to a call from the address, according to Mr. Early. A woman living in one of two apartments in the house said she was assaulted by Mr. Seifert, he said. She told authorities he also took her car.

After the assault was reported, Mr. Seifert fled, Mr. Early said during a Friday morning news conference. His account continued:

Police began looking for a Nissan Sentra about 9:50 p.m. and soon learned he went to his house in Charlton and collected a shotgun owned by his stepfather.

The stepfather attempted to stop him from taking the gun, which was locked up. They struggled, but Mr. Seifert broke into the area where it was stored and took it.

Police alerted other communities to be on the lookout for the vehicle. The alert indicated Mr. Seifert was considered armed and dangerous, according to scanner reports. They indicated that after leaving the Putnam Road address, Mr. Seifert visited the home of a former girlfriend in Charlton before heading back to Webster.

A short time later, Mr. Early said, state police spotted the car headed south on Interstate 395. Troopers signaled for the driver to stop, but he sped away, getting off at Exit 3 and heading into Webster.

Police followed the car to 40 North Main St. The suspect ran to the back of the house. Two Webster police officers and two state troopers pursued him. The two troopers went around the sides of the house and the Webster officers went to the back where Mr. Seifert was attempting to get in a back door.

Mr. Seifert threatened the officers and was told repeatedly to drop the shotgun, saying, "Drop your gun. Drop your gun. Drop your gun was repeated several times," Mr. Early said.

When Mr. Seifert saw the officers, he fired at them twice, Mr. Early said. The first gunshot hit the house and a planter on a back porch near a gas grill. The second just missed the other Webster officer's head and peppered two vehicles parked nearby with gunshot.

One of the officers then returned fire, striking Mr. Seifert, according to Mr. Early.

The shooting took place about 12:40 a.m. Mr. Seifert was taken to nearby Harrington Hospital Hubbard Campus in Webster and was pronounced dead at 1:45 a.m.

The two Webster officers' names have not been made public. They are on administrative leave pending the investigation into the shooting.

Records in Dudley District Court indicate Mr. Seifert on Feb. 23 was charged with assault and battery on a family member and assault and battery with a dangerous weapon. A Webster Police report on the incident said Mr. Seifert "punched and kicked her, as well as poured a bottle of vodka on her."

The victim, the report said, complained of pain in her face and abdomen and had bleeding in her mouth.

At the time, Mr. Seifert told police he had met the woman nine years earlier and they were in a dating relationship, but that ended when a similar incident had taken place and Mr. Seifert was charged with assault and battery.

The court records said they had separated and did not see each other again until about two months before the February incident, when they again started dating.

After the February incident, police said they offered to help the victim seek an abuse prevention order, but the woman declined their help and declined to provide police a written statement about the assault.

Court records also show a history of arrests for drunken driving and an assault and battery on a police officer in 2010. Mr. Seifert was convicted of the latter charge and sentenced to one year probation, to be served concurrently, and to remain drug and alcohol free. Records also indicate multiple Abuse Restraining Orders taken against Mr. Seifert.

At the 40 North Main St. house late Friday morning, owner Robert Tuttle was inspecting the damage done by the gunfight.

One car with a broken taillight and other damage had been removed. Another car showed a tight pattern of four indentations. There was also debris strewn around from a damaged planter. Apparent bullet holes were visible around the door of a bulkhead.

Mr. Tuttle said he was not at the house at the time of the shooting. He said two tenants were told by police to leave before Mr. Seifert arrived. They got a few blocks down the road when they received a text message that shots had been fired in their backyard.

The woman who was initially allegedly assaulted by Mr. Seifert remained in her apartment after police asked her to leave, Mr. Early said. She was there during the shooting. She could not be reached for comment Friday.

Mr. Tuttle said he knew Mr. Seifert growing up.

"He was a nice guy," he said, "but I hadn't seen him in years. Unfortunately he got involved in drugs and alcohol."

Mr. Tuttle said he had to have Mr. Seifert removed from the house a month ago.

The case remains under investigation by state police detectives assigned to the Worcester District Attorney's office. The detectives are being assisted by Webster and Charlton police and various other state police units.

Contact George Barnes at george.barnes@telegram.com. Follow him on Twitter @georgebarnesTG