A Culpeper man who police say was intoxicated and resisting arrest died Monday, several hours after an officer shot him with a Taser.

According to Maj. Chris Settle, an unidentified officer on patrol in the Belle Avenue section of Culpeper around 8 p.m. Sunday saw 30-year-old Dominick R. Wise “acting erratically by walking in circles in the middle of the street.”

Settle said that when the officer attempted to get Wise out of the street, the man walked away. The second time the officer tried to get Wise to leave the street, he “fled down the middle of Belle Avenue,” Settle said.

The officer called for backup and additional officers confronted Wise near the Culpeper Commons apartment complex and tried to take him into custody.

“Mr. Wise at this point was non-compliant with officers’ commands and actively resisted arrest by swinging and kicking at officers,” Settle said in a news release.

An unidentified officer used a Taser “with limited effect” on Wise and then, with even more officers on the scene, the man was subdued and cuffed, Settle said. Settle did not say how many times the Taser was deployed.

The major added that Wise was initially conscious and breathing, but became “unresponsive” after paramedics arrived on the scene a few minutes later,” Settle said.

Emergency personnel administered CPR, after which Wise was taken to Culpeper Regional Hospital. He was later airlifted to the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, where he died late Monday morning.

The cause of death is unknown, but an autopsy will be performed.

Settle said that a knife was found under Wise at the scene, but would not say what type of knife. He did say that the knife was never displayed during the altercation.

One officer involved in the fracas was treated for a broken nose and bruises, Settle said.

Settle would not release the name of the officer.

The incident is being investigated by the Virginia State Police, and the town police will conduct its own internal affairs investigation.

“The Culpeper Police Department would like to send our condolences to the Wise family,” said police Chief Chris Jenkins. “Any loss of life of a loved one, no matter the circumstance, is always tragic and very much too soon. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Wise family as they mourn their loss."