BRIDGETON -- Two Vineland police officers have been cleared in the case of a man who died shortly after being putting up a violent struggle as he resisted arrest, authorities said Friday in an announcement.

Phillip White (submitted photo)

According to the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office, Phillip White was acting erratic during his 2015 arrest due to being on the drug PCP and reached for an officer's handgun. White's arrest was captured on bystander video, fueling questions about the use of force used by police and a K-9 in the arrest.

After an autopsy was conducted, the medical examiner ruled White's death as accidental and caused by Phencyclidine Intoxication, caused by the PCP in his system. Wounds caused during White's arrest were superficial, according to the medical examiner's findings, and were not causes of White's death.

Stanley King, the attorney representing the White family, could not be reached by telephone for comment Friday evening.

A Cumberland County Grand Jury ruled on June 8 not to criminally charge the two Vineland Police Department officers -- Louis Platania and Rich Janasiak -- involved in the arrest.

The two officers have been on modified duty since the incident, according to Vineland Police Chief Timothy Codispoti. The police department is waiting to receive the prosecutor's office reports so the department can conduct an administrative review of the reports.

According to Stuart Alterman, attorney for the officers through the PBA, the Grand Jury ruled correctly and the officers showed great restraint while White resisted arrest and attempted to disarm them.

"Fortunately there was a K-9 partner available," Alterman said.

White arrived by vehicle to a West Grape Street house on March 31, 2015, shortly before 11 a.m. with another man, according to the prosecutor's office. White previously smoked PCP at the residence the night before and, upon arrival that morning, began shouting at the people on the porch, saying, "Give me my s---."

White ultimately calmed down and apologized but not before a neighbor heard the screaming and called Vineland Police Department about someone freaking out.

One of the police officers and his K-9 responded to the scene and found White leaning against a fence with his arms crossed. When the officer asked what was wrong and White responded saying "I want my sh---." The officer then asked if White was alright and if he needed an ambulance. White shook his head that he was not alright and that he did need an ambulance. At this time, White was hyperventilating.

At this time the second officer arrived on the scene. The prosecutor's office's release does not specify the names of each officer.

After speaking with the officer, White walked to the police car and began pounding on the vehicle with his hands and reached for the door handle. The officer was worried that White was going to release his K-9 partner. When the officer attempted to hold White off from the car, White attempted to kick the officer. A struggle ensued and White was taken down onto the pavement.

During the struggle on the pavement, White grabbed at the officer's duty belt with a strong grip, going for the officer's holster. According to the officer, White appeared possessed at the time and had the greatest amount of strength he'd ever encountered on the job.

Despite objections by police, White continued to resist arrest. The officers struck White in the face numerous times.

"Officer #1 perceived he was losing the struggle with Mr. White and was in fear for his life and those around him," stated the prosecutor's office's statement.

The second officer released the K-9 from the car after the first officer was unable to deploy his K-9 using a remote on his belt due to a malfunction.

The K-9 caused superficial injuries to White's left bicep, left forearm and forehead. An independent K-9 expert later looked at the incident and determined that the deployment of the K-9 was consistent with New Jersey Attorney General protocols and was necessary due to the life-threatening situation caused by White attempting to disarm the officer.

A third officer arrived and White was handcuffed and placed in custody. An ambulance responded to the scene to take White to Inspira Medical Center Vineland. White was alert and conscious when placed in the ambulance but, as they were en route, White went into cardiac arrest. He was pronounced dead at the hospital at 12:12 p.m.

The Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office took control of the investigation, with Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae recusing herself and First Assistant Prosecutor Harold Shapiro leading the investigation.

According to Alterman, the prosecutor's office took too long in their investigation process and caused a significant amount of stress for the officers involved -- as well as the cost of overtime to replace the officers on the street for the city.

Using its findings, the prosecutor's office determined that the use of force in the incident was lawful and justified. The facts were then presented to a Cumberland County Grand Jury, which declined to criminally indict the two officers.

Don E. Woods may be reached at dwoods@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @donewoods1. Find NJ.com on Facebook.