Officers shot and killed a man they were arresting on a "high-risk warrant" Tuesday night in Carrollwood, and the man's brother is questioning why that was necessary.

Jeremy James Anderson, 36, was wanted on multiple warrants from Marion and Lee County for sex offenses, including a charge of lewd and lascivious exhibition with a minor, according to authorities.

He was killed in an exchange of gunfire when members of a U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force and Tampa Police Department attempted to arrest him in the backyard of a home on Grass Lake Drive just before 10 p.m., the Marshals Service said.



A Tampa police officer was also injured and was taken to a hospital for treatment of non-life threatening injuries.

Anderson lived in Marion County and was staying at the Carrollwood home, which is located in a neighborhood just north of Dale Mabry Highway and Ehrlich Road.

Anderson's brother, Michael Anderson, said Jeremy Anderson became scared about going back to prison. He had served 14 years in prison for attempted first-degree murder and robbery after a fight that happened when he was 18.

Michael Anderson said that despite his brother's long arrest record, including a violation of probation arrest in 2013, Jeremy Anderson had turned his life around.

"I can say that Jeremy is a peaceful man, he's always been a loving man," Michael Anderson said. "He's a good father when they let him be. He's a reborn Christian, and I don't see why any of this would happen."

Michael Anderson also said he didn't think his brother was a "high-risk" suspect.



"He had a rough childhood, teenage years of escaping from juvenile facilities and bad decisions as a teenager," he said. "That's why they deemed him high-risk is 15-, 20-year-old charges that he has long since repented for and has been focused on building a life for himself since he got out of prison in 2010.

"He spent his whole time in prison bettering himself through extracurricular activities, and he's just been heavy into the word of God. I don't understand why all this would come upon him."

