Hisela Sanchez and her mother cleaned shattered glass and blood from their small bathroom in Woodville.

It was her brother's blood that she scrubbed off the floor and walls on Monday afternoon. It had dried since he was shot and killed by a Tulare County sheriff’s deputy on Oct.14.

According to family, Humberto Sanchez Ramos, 17, was mentally ill. For much of his childhood, he was enrolled in special education classes and had recently begun homeschooling.

Although he had regular interactions with police, Sanchez said she didn't expect her brother to be shot and killed.

More:Sheriff: Deputy saved boy's life by killing brother wielding a knife

Previous contact between Sanchez Ramos and deputies usually ended peacefully, she said.

"Last night was an event that I thought would never happen," Sanchez said following her brother's death. (Humberto) was loved by many people. He was cared for."

She is now questioning whether deputies used excessive force.

A press conference is planned for early this week, pending a toxicology report, said Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux. Questions surrounding the shooting will be answered during the press conference.

Body camera footage of the incident is expected to be released during the press conference. Deputies have been hesitant to release the footage because both the suspect and the suspect's brother are minors.

Boudreaux stands behind his deputy's decision to open fire. He said deputies were protecting Sanchez Ramos' little brother, who was being held at knifepoint.

"We are working to keep the public informed and to be transparent," he said. "We've put clear and thoughtful efforts into our investigation."

"My heart goes out to this family," Boudreaux said.

Sanchez was the person who called 911 when her brother began threatening to kill the family and hurt himself. She said her brother suffered from mental illness for many years and recently stopped taking his medication.

An argument between Sanchez Ramos and his mother is what sparked the incident, Sanchez said. He was cutting lemons when the fight erupted and was armed with a knife.

While Sanchez spoke with dispatchers, the family locked themselves inside the bathroom.

Deputies raced to the scene.

Sanchez said when her brother heard the sirens he got scared and tried to get inside the bathroom with his family, eventually breaking in.

Deputies found the teenager locked inside the bathroom, he was holding his younger brother. Deputies said he still had the knife.

The situation was developing quickly, and deputies had to act fast, Boudreaux said. They needed to protect the younger brother, he said.

Three shots were fired, killing Sanchez Ramos.

Sanchez said when she was reunited with her younger brother he had a bloody nose. he asked if the blood on his face was "Berto's blood."

Sanchez said she feels the situation could have been handled differently.

Boudreaux said the body camera video will show why deputies opened fire and why there was no time for crisis intervention.

There have been three fatal officer-involved shootings involving Tulare County sheriff's deputies. In two of the shootings, the suspects were believed to be mentally ill.

More:Fallen Valley correctional officer remembered by family, friends as a hero

More:Deputy injured in officer-involved shooting