FREDERICK COUNTY, Va. – According to the Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office for Frederick County, Va., Deputy Brian Thomas with the Frederick County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO) did everything he could to try and stop a Winchester man, Christopher Prevatt, from attacking him with a “double-edged dragon letter opener” on April 3.

“[The weapon] was a metal cylinder about [one to two feet long]…It had a separation in the center so that when you pulled the [ends of the cylinder] apart, what you had were twin bladed weapons,” explained Andy Robbins, the Deputy Commonwealth’s Attorney for Frederick County.

The attack started when Thomas responded to a domestic dispute call, made by Prevatt’s girlfriend.

The woman told dispatchers Prevatt was “drunk and threatening her,” and she feared for the safety of their child, who was also in the home at the time of the dispute.

“At one point [Prevatt] gets in arm’s reach of the deputy,” Robbins continued. “That’s when the deputy uses his left hand and pushes Mr. Prevatt away. I mean, at that point, the deputy is already in striking distance of Mr. Prevatt and his two knives.”

According to Robbins, the deputy’s attempt to physically push Prevatt away was an “extra attempt” to diffuse the situation.

Thomas was wearing a body camera at the time of the incident, a major piece of evidence that helped the Commonwealth come to their decision to not file any charges against him.

“At one point, [Prevatt] takes one of the bladed objects and turns it in his hand so it’s now in a fist maneuver preparing for an [overhead] strike,” Robbins said. “When [Prevatt] moves in that direction, that’s when the shots are fired. It is clear that at that point an imminent assault on the deputy is just half a second away.”

The Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office stated that 58 seconds passed from the time of the deputy’s arrival to the time four shots were fired at Prevatt.

According to a press release from the Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office, Thomas immediately reported that shots were fired into his dispatcher. When medical personnel arrived minutes later, Prevatt was declared dead.

“The deputy in this case used amazing restraint,” Robbins concluded. “He was confronted with a seriously aggressive individual who, by all accounts, intended to do him so serious harm. He defended himself as best he could.”

Video from Thomas’s body camera and audio recordings from the 911 call have not been released to the public.

Both the Sheriff’s Office and Commonwealth’s attorney expressed concerns that the small room in the mobile home where the shooting happened created an intimate and extremely graphic incident caught on camera.

Furthermore, sources state that the juvenile who was in the home at the time of the incident can be seen briefly in some of the footage.

Neither the female nor the juvenile were hurt in the shooting. The Commonwealth said neither witnessed the shooting as the female caller took their child to a separate room, soon after the deputy arrived.

According to the Commonwealth, Prevatt’s blood-alcohol content was a .20 at the time of his death. That is two and a half times the legal limit to operate a motor vehicle in Virginia.