Deborah Gates

dgates@dmg.gannett.com

Milford police have identified a suspect in the PNC bank robbery on Dupont Highway in Milford. Police say the suspect is David Tyre, 35, of Harrington.

Police are working to determine whether a man found dead Friday night from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound is the bank robbery suspect.

Milford police identify a suspect in this week's PNC bank robbery, but won't say whether suspect David Tyre is the same 35-year-old man found dead in a vehicle involved in a Friday night police chase.

Police say Tyre of Harrington also is a suspect in bank robberies in Denton. The Milford Police Department did not indicate that a robbery suspect was in custody.

The Milford Police Department released Tyre's name and photographs several hours after Delaware State Police troopers chased a vehicle near Bridgeville that matched the getaway car in Thursday's robbery at the bank in Milford.

When troopers stopped the maroon Chevrolet Impala about 7:30 p.m. Friday, they found a 35-year-old man fatally shot in a passenger seat, said DSP. Authorities believe the wound was self-inflicted.

As procedure in suicide cases, DSP would not identify the shooting victim.

Police said the car's 31-year-old female driver was a Greenwood resident. The woman was not injured and as of early Saturday had not been charged with a crime.

DSP, the Milford Police Department and other allied agencies are working to determine whether the suspected suicide victim and his female companion were involved in the bank robberies.

Milford police credited the public's sharing of bank robbery photos on social media for leading to Tyre.

The Friday chase started when a DSP trooper spotted a maroon-colored Impala that matched the description of the bank getaway car.

The chase started on Shell Bridge Road toward Bethel, and the suspect vehicle ignored traffic signals and continued until Bridgeville police placed stop sticks on Route 404 near Oak Road. The sticks deflated the car's tires, ending the ordeal.

An officer said he heard a shot before troopers approached the disabled car.

Authorities await results of an autopsy to determine the exact cause and manner of death of the man inside.

dgates@dmg.gannett.com

On Twitter@DTDeborahGates