The east Rapid City intersection of East St. Patrick Street and Highway 44 already haunts Lisa Andrews. Her brother died in a drunken-driving accident there 15 years ago.

And now, tragically, that crossing is the site of more pain for Andrews.

Her nephew, Robert DuBray Jr., 15, of Rapid City died in an early Sunday morning rollover crash there that left at least five other juveniles injured after what authorities said was a chase involving officers and the driver of a stolen vehicle.

“Everyone is just having a hard time. He left at such a young age,” said Andrews, a Rapid City resident, who visited the site Sunday to mourn and pray with her mother, Pam Rodriguez. “It’s hard for me, knowing I have a brother and a nephew that died in the same spot.”

At least five other juveniles were injured in the crash after the group allegedly fled Rapid City police in a stolen vehicle, according to police. Two of the injured youths were Tristen Long Soldier, 10, and Jon Dillon, 11, both of Rapid City, Andrews said.

Police responded at about 2:40 a.m. to the area of Elm and East St. Anne streets in east Rapid City to investigate a report of suspicious activity. Immediately after police arrived, the pursuit began. Police say they had identified the vehicle as being stolen.

Police said the chase lasted about two minutes, ending when the driver failed to negotiate the intersection of East St. Patrick Street and Highway 44, while attempting to turn east onto the highway.

A pair of skid marks, now highlighted by police spray paint, show where the vehicle traversed the intersection, struck the curb and ultimately rolled several times through the grassy right-of-way in front of Neumiller Truck & Auto Body.

A seventh passenger in the vehicle fled on foot after the crash, according to the police. That person was caught by officers, though any injuries were not specified, the Pennington County Sheriff's Office said.

Long Soldier and Dillon are also nephews of Andrews. She said Long Soldier suffered a sprained ankle, and Dillon was released Sunday afternoon from Rapid City Regional Hospital after undergoing surgery for his injuries.

The names of rest of the youths involved were not released by authorities. All of the injured were taken to Rapid City Regional Hospital, with injuries ranging from minor to life threatening, police said.

The agency did not specify who was driving the vehicle that crashed. The Pennington County Sheriff's Office and Rapid City Police are investigating the crash. Charges are pending, according to the agencies.

The death of DuBray Jr. is the third fatality of a youth in the Black Hills region in a traffic-related incident in the past two weeks. Jeremiah Helton, 14, of Belle Fourche died in a rollover wreck in Butte County on March 25, and 18-year-old Nehemiah Larimer of Rapid City died after being struck by a car while riding a scooter last weekend.