Daniel J. Gross daniel.gross@shj.com

Investigative reports obtained from SLED through a Freedom of Information Act request state that deputies went to the home with a search warrant to look for steroids, the file states.

Burgess, a bodybuilder, had been a person of interest in a steroid investigation, according to the file.

The file states Burgess' wife told deputies when they arrived that he had attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. She said Burgess had been injecting growth hormones for about three years, the file states. She also told deputies that there were two handguns inside, the file states.

"She said he was not violent but was very overprotective of his family," the file states.

While deputies were inside the home, Burgess became agitated and began acting strangely, the file states. Deputies called for backup and two traffic officers responded, according to the file.

Burgess punched a laundry room door and wrote "I will defend my home" on a dry-erase board, the file states.

Shortly thereafter, Burgess grabbed a handgun from on top of his refrigerator and pointed it at the deputies, two of whom shot him, according to the file.

Investigators recovered 17 spent cartridge cases and 11 fired bullets from the scene.

Spartanburg County Coroner Rusty Clevenger, who was a part of Burgess' death investigation, said steroids were found in the house.

The two traffic officers — Bradley Craig Newton and Michael Adam Turner — were the ones who fired the shots while the others took cover, the file states. Newton and Turner were placed on administrative leave. They later returned to work after an internal review by the Sheriff's Office cleared them of any wrongdoing. Neither officer was wearing a body camera.

SLED, which conducted the independent investigation at the request of Sheriff Chuck Wright, closed the case Nov. 4.

Thom Berry, a SLED spokesman, said the lengthy investigative process is typical of an officer-involved shooting.

"The process is that we do our investigative work, then write up everything in a case file, then present it to the solicitor's office and they will then review it," Berry said.

Burgess' family hired an attorney following the shooting. Reached by phone Tuesday, attorney Josh Allen said he had received the completed case file from SLED but was still reviewing it.

Follow Daniel J. Gross on Twitter @danieljgross