Ron Wilkins

rwilkins@jconline.com

MONON – An armed robbery and carjacking in Illinois turned into a two-state, multi-county pursuit that ended with the suspect dead and a hostage injured.

Police in Watseka, Illinois, responded to a reported robbery, kidnapping and vehicle theft about 3:50 p.m. Thursday.

The male suspect committed the robbery before he carjacked a white NAPA Auto Parts pickup truck and took its female driver hostage, Indiana State Police Sgt. Kim Riley said.

He fled the area and headed about 7 miles east, where he entered Indiana.

Law enforcement across the region were notified of the incident and began to search for the vehicle.

"We had some sightings of him, of the vehicle," Riley said. "We attempted to try to find him. We were able to find him at that point in time."

Information obtained by police showed the man taking a path that led him through multiple locations in Indiana, including Newton, Benton, White and Tippecanoe counties.

About 5:30 p.m., Lafayette police received a report of an armed robbery at the Advance America loan office at 1806 Elmwood Ave., Lt. Brad Hayworth said.

Two female employees told investigators the suspect arrived at the business with a woman presumed to the hostage from the Watseka, Illinois, holdup.

The man robbed the Advance America employees at gunpoint, then bound their hands with wire ties, before fleeing in the stolen truck with the hostage.

The employees were terrified, and suffered minor injuries from being bound by the robber, Hayworth said.

Police spotted the vehicle on North Ninth Street, and pursued the truck through Battle Ground and into White County, reaching speeds in excess of 100 mph.

As the chase neared Brookston, police placed on the road stop sticks that burst the tires on the truck.

The truck continued to the north end of Brookston, where the suspect removed the hostage from the truck and stole a Geo Tracker, Riley said.

The pursuit continued north on Indiana 43 and onto U.S. 421 through Brookston, Reynolds and Monon, where it soon ended.

As the suspect drove through Monon, he struck another set of stop sticks in the road, flattening the tires.

He then forced a southbound silver minivan into a ditch.

Once the vehicles stopped, three women inside the minivan ran away, and the gunman forced his hostage into the van.

The robbery suspect pointed his gun at approaching officers. They opened fire, killing the suspect, who police have not identified.

"The police officers were not injured," Riley said. "We've got a victim that we believe is deceased at this time."

Riley said the female hostage was injured but did not specify whether she was hurt in the crash or the subsequent shootout.

She was taken to IU Health White Memorial Hospital for treatment, and Riley said she was released before 9 p.m.

U.S. 421 north of Monon was closed for about three hours during the investigation and reopened about 9:40 p.m.

As of 8 p.m., investigators still were at Advance America, gathering fingerprints and taking photographs of the store before employees could perform an audit to determine what was taken.