Justin L. Mack justin.mack@indystar.com

Two Indianapolis police officers involved in the fatal shooting of an armed suspect after an April traffic stop will not face criminal charges.

On Tuesday, a Marion County Grand Jury returned six "no bills" in the April 12 shooting of 35-year-old Mack Long, Indianapolis.

About 3:15 p.m. on April 12, an IMPD officer pulled over a vehicle Long was riding in near the corner of 31st Street and Sherman Drive.

Police said as the officer asked the woman driving the vehicle for her license and registration, Long took off on foot.

The officer gave chase and reported seeing a 9mm handgun on Long's hip as he ran, police said.

When he caught Long he ordered him to the ground, but police said Long didn't comply. The officer then drew his weapon and ordered Long to the ground again.

Police said Long responded by turning "his gun-side away" from view, prompting the officer to fire.

Long was hit in the side but he continued to flee, police said.

The officer caught up to Long again, and the two began wrestling over the officer's weapon, police said. During the exchange, the officer's gun went off. Moments later, another officer arrived on scene and witnessed the struggle.

The second officer ordered Long to the ground, police said. When Long refused, the officer fired his service weapon at him twice.

Long fell to the ground and was pronounced dead by medics at the scene.

Police said four shots, two from each officer's gun, were fired. Investigators recovered drugs, a 9mm handgun and ammo in Long's possession.

Long's gun was never fired, police said.

In the wake of the shooting, rumors of police brutality and Long being shot in the back began to bubble up. Police Chief Rick Hite responded by saying that was not the case.

Long's family also called for video from the body camera the second officer was wearing to be released to the public. Investigators have not yet released the footage.

Call Star reporter Justin L. Mack at (317) 444-6138. Follow him on Twitter: @justinlmack.