Adams County prison shooting.JPG

State Police Lt. Jonathan Mays (left), Adams County District Attorney Shawn Wagner (center), and Adams County First Assistant District Attorney Brian Sinnett (right) discuss the April 9 Adams County Prison shooting at a press conference Wednesday.

(Steve Marroni/PennLive.com)

GETTYBURG - Jess Leipold had no prior run ins with the police and no record of mental illness.

Very little is known about what the 32-year-old's motives were the day that he rode a bicycle to the Adams County Prison and opened fire with an assault rifle, but those who knew him at the Adams County Mission, where he had been staying, described him as being paranoid, authorities revealed at a press conference Wednesday morning.

And a note police found in his backpack, describing wars against humanity and the "chainsaw killer," hinted at an undiagnosed mental illness.

Adams County District Attorney Shawn Wagner said on Wednesday that state police tried for 30 minutes to negotiate with Leipold before he aimed his AR-15 at the prison lobby full of corrections officers 30 yards away. At that moment, police had no choice but to take the shot that killed Leipold.

After conducting an investigation, Wagner said Wednesday that state police Sgt. Matt Nickey was justified in taking that shot.

"He was clearly and unequivocally justified in his use of deadly force," Wagner said. "Sgt. Nickey reasonably believed such force was necessary to prevent death or personal injury to another."

At Wednesday's press conference, Wagner said Nickey is a decorated, 13-year member of the Pennsylvania State Police who is a supervisor at the Gettysburg barracks.

Wagner described the stand off like this:

Leipold rode a bike to the Adams County Prison around 1 p.m. that day, and when he went into the lobby, he pointed a loaded handgun at the badge on the chest of a female corrections officer.

As Leipold went outside, the corrections officer, whom Wagner credits with de-escalating the situation, hit a panic alarm, alerting the police, who responded within minutes.

Adams County District Attorney Shawn Wagner said Wednesday that state police Sgt. Matt Nickey was justified in the shooting of Jess Leipold, who opened fire at the Adams County Prison April 9.

When police arrived, Leipold was outside and had already assembled the rifle he had stowed in his backpack.

Nickey and other troopers tried to negotiate with Leipold, who refused to comply with their commands to put the rifle down and to get on the ground.

"During these 30 minutes, the gunman continually taunted and mocked the state police when they were making these requests," Wagner said.

At one point, Leipold walked toward a state trooper, gun at his side, and asked the trooper if he was a sniper, telling him "to take the shot."

State Police Lt. Jonathan Mays added the weapon Leipold carried had the potential of harming officers from several hundred yards away -- and they were within 300 feet.

Mays said in Nickey's attempts to negotiate with Leipold, the trooper tried to personalize his approach, introducing himself and talking about his family. He asked about Leipold's family, too, and pleaded with him to end the stand off so everyone could return home safely.

But when Leipold raised his rifle to his shoulder, put his finger on the trigger, and aimed the gun at the lobby of the prison where there were three corrections officers, Wagner said Nickey took the shot.

Wagner said state troopers all corroborated the story, and so did video from the prison, and video taken on the cellphone of a witness who was in the parking lot.

Wagner pointed out Nickey and the other troopers showed remarkable restraint in dealing with the gunman.

"They used every method possible to peacefully take Mr. Leipold into custody," he said. "Given the fact that the gunman possessed a high-powered assault rifle and fired it on 10 separate occasions, there were no other less-lethal methods available."

The gunman, Leipold, was from the New Oxford area and had previously lived near Lancaster, Wagner said. He had no prior police run ins and there was no evidence uncovered showing any mental-health commitments, though authorities believe he may have had an undiagnosed mental-health issue.

Between 2005 and 2012, Leipold had legally purchased 12 firearms, and had a license to carry a firearm through the Lancaster County Sheriff's Department, Wagner said.

Little is known about Leipold's background since his family has been uncooperative with the state police, Wagner said.

Authorities do know that Leipold was staying at the Adams County Mission, though, from March 19 until April 5 -- four days before the shooting. Those staying and working at the mission told investigators Leipold was paranoid, and he believed he was being followed by the FBI, CIA and drones. He never made threats against anyone or any government institution, however.

Wagner said a note discovered in Leipold's backpack further points at mental illness. The note stated, "(expletive) your childish games. All of your wars against humanity will fail. The chainsaw killer have come out to play."

Wagner said he commends the police in their handling of the situation.

"In this instance, Sgt. Nickey had to make a split-second decision," Wagner said. "He potentially saved the lives of those corrections officers who were inside the prison."