HIGHLAND >> A man died early Wednesday after deputies used force while detaining him, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department announced.

The in-custody death happened less than a week after deputies in the High Desert were recorded kicking and punching a man who surrendered after a lengthy chase, calling into question the department’s use of force practices.

Wednesday’s incident began about 1:17 a.m. when a deputy from the sheriff’s Highland station went to a gas station in the 27700 block of Base Line to investigate a report of a person damaging property, the department said in a news release.

Sheriff’s officials identified the man as Joseph Slater, 28, of Highland. They said he was acting strange and was detained by a deputy at the gas station.

“As the deputy attempted to place Slater in the backseat of his patrol vehicle, Slater became uncooperative and refused to sit inside,” the sheriff’s statement said. “The deputy deployed his pepper spray, but Slater continued to resist and tried to push the deputy back.”

It’s unclear if Slater was handcuffed at this time. Sheriff’s officials did not respond to follow-up questions Wednesday night.

The deputy got Slater partially inside the squad car before he escaped. The unidentified deputy tackled Slater and “force was used to overcome his resistance,” according to the Sheriff’s Department.

More deputies arrived at the gas station, as did paramedics.

In the backseat of a squad car, Slater experienced a “significant medical emergency,” the department said, without elaborating.

Paramedics attempted life-saving measures at the scene and took Slater to St. Bernardine Medical Center in San Bernardino, where he was pronounced dead, according to sheriff’s officials.

Sheriff’s Department detectives are investigating the incident, and the Riverside County Coroner’s Office will perform an autopsy on Slater, which is typical for in-custody deaths and deputy-involved shootings.

The Sheriff’s Department has been criticized since Thursday when a KNBC news helicopter recorded deputies beating Francis Pusok, 30, of Apple Valley, in an open area of the High Desert.

Pusok fled from deputies in a car, then allegedly stole a horse during the hours-long chase. At the conclusion, Pusok fell off the horse and laid on his stomach in surrender.

A deputy used a Taser on him and then another deputy kicked him in or near his head. Then the deputy who used the Taser ran up and kicked Pusok between the legs. The two deputies continued striking Pusok, as more deputies arrived and struck Pusok.

The on-camera beating has, so far, led to 10 deputies being placed on paid leave, internal and criminal investigations by the Sheriff’s Department and an FBI probe to see if deputies violated Pusok’s civil rights.