Yohana Flores called 9-1-1 to ask for help getting her agitated father out of his home on a narrow road in unincorporated Montclair.

About 90 minutes later, San Bernardino County sheriff’s deputies fatally shot Ernesto Flores, because, the Sheriff’s Department said, the 52-year-old pointed what appeared to be a small caliber rifle at a deputy.

The rifle turned out to be a pellet gun, a fact Yohana Flores contends deputies knew all along.

“We’re not saying what my dad did was correct,” Yohana Flores said Thursday afternoon at her home in Chino. “But the way they approached it was not fair.”

On Wednesday, Yohana Flores went to her parents’ home in the 11100 block of Chico Avenue because her father was acting in ways she said she had never witnessed.

He was breaking things and threatening to blow up the house by turning on the gas and starting a fire, she said. Yohana Flores said she relayed that information to authorities about 11:35 a.m. She said she told a dispatcher her dad had her nephew’s BB gun.

A Sheriff’s Department’s statement differs from Yohana Flores’ account.

“The caller said Flores was armed with a gun,” the statement, released Thursday, said. “Deputies arrived on scene and observed Flores inside the residence with what appeared to be a rifle.”

Ernesto Flores only speaks Spanish, according to his three adult children. He gets anxiety attacks, especially around people in uniform, and was being weaned off pain pills in preparation for a back operation. He’s never had a similar outburst, they said.

Elia, 26, and Yohana, 30, watched behind crime scene tape as deputies surrounded their parents’ home. The women said a deputy in plain clothes spoke Spanish and confirmed their father was holding a BB gun.

Meanwhile, Ernesto Flores broke windows and eventually started a fire.

About 1 p.m. he stepped onto the front porch.

“I could see the door opening and him coming out like this,” Yohana Flores said, raising her arms.

A woman who lives across the street from Ernesto Flores said she also saw him walk outside with his arms up.

The Sheriff’s Department said he came out with the BB gun and a knife, which he didn’t drop as deputies commanded him to do.

On a video with an impeded view that captures audio from the scene, officers can be heard yelling at Flores in Spanish, including “throw the gun on the grass,” and “Ernesto, your family wants to talk to you.”

About 19 bean bag rounds are shot over the course of six minutes, while deputies continue shouting commands and light smoke rises from the home.

One of the shots took Flores to the ground.

“He dropped to the ground and quickly brought the rifle up and aimed directly at the deputies, at which time a deputy-involved shooting occurred,” the sheriff’s statement said.

On the video what sounds like two dozen or so real bullets are fired within seconds.

About 10 bullets struck Flores, including one to the face. Others hit his arms and legs. His torso was bruised from the bean bag rounds.

Deputies dragged Flores down the home’s walkway to the driveway, leaving a blood trail.

Paramedics drove in from down the street and performed CPR, witnesses said. They took him to Montclair Hospital Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

Sheriff’s Department investigators were called to the scene.

They wrapped up their on-scene investigation after 3 p.m. Thursday, leaving the Flores family to hose blood off the front porch.