On April 15, 2015, at around 9:06 a.m., Houston Police Officers Christopher W. Glenn and John A. Stroble were assigned to the Southwest Division Burglary Apprehension Team, riding in a two man unit, 91E24. They were working with Officer J. Satterwhite at the Garden Inn Motel, a known high crime location, conducting proactive investigations.

Officer Satterwhite was working in an undercover capacity and notified Glenn and Stroble that a white

Chevrolet Impala that had appeared suspicious had just left the location and warranted further investigation. He relayed to the unit the vehicle description and that as the vehicle left the location the driver had committed the traffic violation of failing to use the first available lane when making a right hand turn as it pulled out of the motel parking lot.

Officers Glenn and Stroble located the vehicle traveling east bound on Reed Rd. They observed the vehicle make an abrupt U-turn without signaling and continue west bound on Reed Rd. They caught up to the vehicle, activating their emergency equipment to initiate a traffic stop. The vehicle slowed down, but continued to roll slowly for a longer time than necessary, passing several areas where it could have stopped.

Both officers observed the driver of the vehicle reaching into his center console and then place his hand near his mouth, appearing to be placing items in his mouth. They observed him make this movement several times before he finally came to a complete stop.

The vehicle stopped in the 2100 block of Reed Rd. The officers exited their vehicle to make contact with the driver. Officer Glenn had been driving the patrol vehicle and approached the vehicle from the driver's side, as Officer Stroble approached from the passenger side. As they approached the vehicle, Officer Glenn observed the driver of the vehicle, later identified as Michael A. Charles, throw a small white object into this mouth and swallow hard. Charles then opened up his driver's door and exited the vehicle as directed to by Officer Glenn.

The officers asked Charles what he had eaten, and he denied having placed anything in his mouth. He was asked to open his mouth, which he did, and the officers did not observe any white residue or narcotics in his mouth. The officers continued with their investigation, placing Charles into handcuffs and into the back seat of their patrol vehicle. In the course of their investigation, they were joined by another two man unit with the Southwest BAT, Officers Stewart and Contreras riding unit 91E25.

While Officer Stroble spoke with the Harris County District Attorney's Office, Office Glenn searched Charles' white Chevrolet Impala. In that search, Glenn found a small baggie under the driver's seat that contained white residue which tested positive for cocaine content. During the course of the investigation, the officers continued to ask Charles if he had swallowed any narcotic, telling him that if he did, he would need medical attention.

Charles continued to deny that he had swallowed anything. After locating the baggie in his vehicle, Charles finally admitted to swallowing a single dime bag of cocaine. Officers immediately requested HFD to the location for their prisoner who had possibly ingested cocaine. Charles overheard the request and became irritable, telling the officers that he did not need an ambulance, claiming to have a high tolerance. HFD arrived within minutes and spoke with Charles.

In the course of their conversation, Charles admitted to the Paramedics that in addition, he had taken two ecstasy pills. As HFD checked his vitals, Charles asked to be let out of the patrol vehicle so he could stand up. The officers allowed it, and as he was outside of their vehicle they noticed that Charles was having difficulty standing. They observed that his knees were starting to buckle, and that his speech was starting to slur. They sat him back down in the back of the patrol vehicle and he started to have a seizure. The paramedics advised that they would transport Charles. It was determined that he would be transported to St. Joseph Medical Center, located at 1401 St. Joseph Pkwy in downtown Houston.

The paramedics loaded Charles into the ambulance with Officer Glenn riding in the back with him. Officer Stroble followed in their patrol vehicle. During transport, Officer Glenn observed Charles have several more seizures, at the end of one Charles vomited. In the vomitus, Officer Glenn observed two small baggies that appeared to have been chewed up.

Upon arrival at St. Joseph Medical Center, as Charles was brought into the Emergency Center, he stopped breathing and lost his pulse. The St. Joseph staff immediately began life saving measures, including performing CPR, administering medications, and using a defibrillator in an attempt to revive Charles. Their attempts were not successful, and Michael Charles was pronounced dead by St. Joseph staff at 10:25 a.m.

The autopsy on Michael Charles was performed the following day by Dr. Sara Doyle with the Harris County Institute of Forensic Sciences. During the autopsy, at least two additional baggies were identified in Michael Charles' body. One was discovered in his stomach and another in his upper digestive tract.

Both bags were ruptured with no identifiable contents remaining. Dr. Doyle was unable to immediately rule on the manner and cause of Michael Charles' death, which will be pending further examination by the HCIFS.