Jeffery Kemp, 18, of the 7400 block of South Jeffery Boulevard, was fatally shot by police after a chase in South Shore on April 17, 2015. (Quinn Ford, Chicago Tribune)

An 18-year-old man was fatally shot by police just blocks from his home in the city's South Shore neighborhood Friday night.

Officers were on patrol about 10:10 p.m. when they responded to a call of shots fired near East 71st Street and South Paxton Avenue.

Advertisement

The officers spotted a van traveling at a high rate of speed and gave chase, police said. The officers pursued the van down an alleyway between Paxton and Merrill avenues, and a passenger of the van jumped out and began running, police said.

Officers, who police say were in uniform, followed the man on foot, and the van continued fleeing. When the man reached 74th Street, police say he pointed a gun at the officers. One of the officers fired twice, fatally hitting the man. The 18-year-old died on the scene, according to police.

Advertisement

He was later identified as Jeffery Kemp, of the 7400 block of South Jeffery Boulevard, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner's office. Police initially said they believed the man to be in his early 20s.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Police said a handgun was recovered on the scene. Following the shooting, police taped off more than a block of 74th Street. Houses lined the quiet block where Kemp's body lay in the middle of the street following the shooting, the top portion of his body covered by a white sheet.

On the east side of the scene, some neighbors watched from their front yards as more than a dozen officers worked behind yellow tape. At one point, a small group of people trying to learn if they knew who was killed ducked under the tape and had to be blocked by police.

On the west side of the scene, a larger crowd had gathered, also trying to learn the identify of who was killed.

One woman, who stood behind the tape, said she lived nearby and had just come out to see what happened.

"My heart goes out to whoever it is," said the woman, who declined to give her name. "This is scary."

The Independent Police Review Authority was on the scene investigating, as they do with each police-involved shooting.

Early Saturday, police said they had located the van involved in the pursuit a short time later in an alleyway near the corner of East 75th Street and South Jeffrey Avenue.