Updates with more information about incident

Two officers shot and killed a suspect in a gun battle that forced a lockdown at a church near Hemet on Friday night, April 17, authorities said.

The shooting was reported about 7:45 p.m. at Girard Street and Acacia Avenue. About 150 young adults were having a rally at a church at that intersection, just south of the Hemet city limits.

A Riverside County sheriff’s deputy and a California Highway Patrol officer were on assignment as part of an anti-gang task force when they stopped a vehicle.

The man in the passenger seat was on parole and had a felony warrant for his arrest, and the officers recognized him, which is why they made the traffic stop, said sheriff’s Sgt. Mike Manning.

“As soon as the car stopped, the suspect flung open the door and started firing at the officers point blank,” Manning said.

The officers, who were already out of their patrol car, returned fire, killing the suspect, Manning said.

Neither officer was injured, he said. The officers have been placed on paid administrative place while the shooting is investigated.

The Riverside County coroner’s office will release the suspect’s name after family members are notified.

UPDATE: Coroner release name of man killed by officers

The driver was questioned and released, Manning said.

“Because of the recent violent assaults on officers, both law enforcement officers relied upon their heightened sense of officer safety and training during this violent encounter,” Manning wrote in an emailed statement.

“Our department is again, very grateful and relieved that neither one of our task force officers or innocent members of the public were injured during this shooting.”

A neighbor said she was looking out her living room window when the shooting started.

“I heard 15 gunshots,” said Kay Harris, 33, who lives across the street from the church. “It sounded like one type of gun.”

The gunfire erupted as a youth rally was underway at Cornerstone Church. About 150 college-age worshippers from 11 churches in the area were praising God in the gym, said Bob Meisel, a pastor at Cornerstone.

The gym is about 100 yards from the shooting site.

Meisel said he was one of about a half-dozen staff members outside when the shooting started.

“I heard the gunshots, then I ducked down for a few minutes and ran to get everybody else safe,” Meisel said.

He said a youth pastor told everyone inside the gym that an officer-involved shooting happened.

“We made sure everybody stayed inside and let law enforcement take over,” Meisel said.

Even though no one could leave the gym, everyone remained calm, he said. The church’s parking lot became a command post and officials blocked off streets around the church while they investigated.

When authorities determined it was safe, people left through the back gate about 10:30 p.m.

Meisel praised officers for “putting their lives on the line” and doing “a great job controlling the situation.”

It could have turned out much worse, he said.

“God was on our side,” Meisel said.