No weapon was found at the scene of a fatal officer-involved shooting Thursday afternoon in Long Beach’s Cambodia Town, police said Friday.

Officers responding to a trespassing and vandalizing call at about 2:45 p.m. discovered two open windows missing screens at a multi-unit residence in the 1100 block of Hoffman Avenue in Long Beach.

An officer looked through one of the openings, a broken window, and saw a male suspect, later identified as Hector Morejon, 19, standing next to a wall. Police said in a statement that the officer saw the Long Beach man turn toward him, while bending his knees, and extending his arm out as if pointing an object which the officer perceived was a gun. The officer then fired, according to police.

At the time of the shooting, two officers were at the scene, said Deputy Chief David Hendricks in an interview Friday evening. The officer who fired was not able to give a verbal warning before shooting, Hendricks said.

“That’s something we try and do in every situation, however there are those times where the exigency of the situation prevents us from doing that,” he said.

The shooting will be reviewed by the department in a process that could take several months, Hendricks said. In addition, the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office and the Coroner’s Office will conduct independent investigations.

Morejon was initially listed in critical condition, but was later pronounced dead at a hospital. Officers also arrested four Long Beach residents following the shooting: Edgar and German Rodarte, ages 20 and 21, respectively; and Yesenia Pineda, 22, and Ceclia Cox, 22, were all arrested on suspicion of trespassing. German Rodarte was also charged with a gang injunction violation.

Police added that the interior of the residence where the shooting occurred was covered in gang-related graffiti.

The public has an obligation to comply with an officer’s orders, Hendricks said. If they feel that their rights were violated, there are processes in the legal system and internally in the department to address those concerns.

“That’s what needs to happen,” he said. “That’s the public’s obligation. Our obligation is [for officers to conduct] themselves professionally. It’s the chief’s expectation. It’s my expectation.”

So far this year, officers have fired at suspects three times, with this being the first fatal incident, officials said. In 2013, the department was criticized when it had more than double the officer-involved shootings over the previous year. Of the 15 shootings in 2013, six were fatal.

Authorities will evaluate the legal, policy, tactical and equipment issues related to Thursday’s incident, and will disclose as much information to the public as is legally allowed, Hendricks said.

“We understand the public’s desire to know that we’re doing the right thing,” he said. “We’re very confident in our process.”

Anyone with information regarding this incident is urged to contact Long Beach Police Homicide Detail at (562) 570-7244. Anonymous tips may be submitted by calling 1-800-222-TIPS (8477), texting TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES (274637), or visiting www.lacrimestoppers.org.

Contact Greg Yee at 562-499-1476.