The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation has identified the person fatally shot by a wildlife officer in Adair County.

Billy Joe Patrick, 29, of Arkansas, was identified on Monday as the man killed Sunday, OSBI reported.

According to an OSBI news release, a state wildlife officer approached three people who were fishing in the area of Bunch and asked to see their fishing licenses around 11:10 a.m. Sunday. One of the men, Patrick, had a warrant from Arkansas for violating the terms of his parole, the release states.

“As the officer attempted to take the man into custody, that (Patrick) began to fight with the officer,” OSBI said. “The men fell into a pond where the suspect tried to hold the officer’s head underwater.”

The officer reported that he fought his way above water and shot the Patrick, who died at the scene, according to the release. The officer who shot him was treated for minor injuries at a nearby hospital. The officer has not been identified.

The Adair County Sheriff’s Office said in a post on its Facebook page that OSBI will be handling the investigation into the shooting, which sheriff’s office officials said took place in the Sanders Flat area near Bunch. OSBI said it was asked to investigate the incident by the wildlife department’s chief.

“The OSBI will not release the name of the officer who killed the suspect unless he is arrested or charged with a crime,” the release states.

The Adair County District Attorney’s Office will determine whether the shooting was justified.

The Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation Game Wardens posted a statement on Facebook about the incident Sunday evening, thanking the public for its “patience and understanding during this difficult time.”

“Please keep everyone involved in this terrible incident in your thoughts and prayers!” the statement read. “Currently, the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation (OSBI) is conducting a thorough investigation, and will release its findings whenever appropriate and allowed.”

Sunday’s shooting is the second fatal incident involving a law enforcement officer this weekend. An Oklahoma Highway Patrol officer shot Miami resident Gary Collins, 63, Friday night after an altercation following a traffic stop, Lt. John Vincent said at the time.

Vincent said Collins showed a weapon “in a threatening manner” after stepping out of his vehicle at the end of a six-block pursuit, leading the trooper to shoot him.