A man and a woman are dead and three others are in critical condition at the hospital after a police chase ended in a crash in Avon early Monday morning.Watch reportMatthew Andrade and Denise Moreira, 221, of Brockton were pronounced dead at the scene of the crash. The Enterprise reported that the chase started in Brockton on Spring Street after an officer attempted to pull over a black Nissan sedan for motor vehicle infractions about 2:50 a.m., Brockton Police Lt. LeGrice said."It started in the Spring Street area and then went through some of the neighborhoods between North Main and North Warren Avenue and then they came down North Main Street and headed into Avon," LeGrice said.The driver of the fleeing vehicle struck a utility pole on West Main Street in Avon near Harrison Boulevard, David Traub, Norfolk County District Attorney spokesman said.The crash snapped a utility pole in half and the left the vehicle badly damaged. The engine of the car separated from the vehicle in the crash and was in the middle of the road about 20 feet away from where the Nissan came to stop.The three surviving occupants of the car, one male and two females, have all undergone substantial medical interventions and are now expected to survive.The crash is being investigated by Avon police, Brockton police, State police and the Motor Vehicle Homicide Unit of the Norfolk County District Attorney's office.

A man and a woman are dead and three others are in critical condition at the hospital after a police chase ended in a crash in Avon early Monday morning.

Watch report

Advertisement Related Content Bail revoked for Brockton man charged in fatal crash in Avon

Matthew Andrade and Denise Moreira, 221, of Brockton were pronounced dead at the scene of the crash.

The Enterprise reported that the chase started in Brockton on Spring Street after an officer attempted to pull over a black Nissan sedan for motor vehicle infractions about 2:50 a.m., Brockton Police Lt. LeGrice said.

"It started in the Spring Street area and then went through some of the neighborhoods between North Main and North Warren Avenue and then they came down North Main Street and headed into Avon," LeGrice said.

The driver of the fleeing vehicle struck a utility pole on West Main Street in Avon near Harrison Boulevard, David Traub, Norfolk County District Attorney spokesman said.

The crash snapped a utility pole in half and the left the vehicle badly damaged. The engine of the car separated from the vehicle in the crash and was in the middle of the road about 20 feet away from where the Nissan came to stop.

The three surviving occupants of the car, one male and two females, have all undergone substantial medical interventions and are now expected to survive.

The crash is being investigated by Avon police, Brockton police, State police and the Motor Vehicle Homicide Unit of the Norfolk County District Attorney's office.