Update, April 28, 2:31 p.m.:

MARION — A former Illinois convict is dead and a woman hurt after an exchange of gunfire with police during a hostage situation Tuesday morning in Marion, authorities said.

Joshua A. Green, 27, of Marion was pronounced dead outside a 1408 W. Main St. apartment where he reportedly took a woman hostage early Tuesday morning, Illinois State Police Lt. William Sons said at a news conference in Marion.

A four-hour standoff that started with earlier shots fired allegedly by Green ended when Green left the apartment with the unidentified woman. Sons said Green pulled out a concealed weapon and began firing upon police, who returned fire, fatally striking Green.

“Officers ordered Green to surrender. Green refused to surrender at that point. He had a firearm concealed on is person. At that point, Green drew the firearm and fired on officers a second time,” Sons said.

The woman was also struck and has been flown to a hospital outside the area for trauma care. Authorities are investigating whether her wound was the result of gunfire from Green or police, Williamson County State’s Attorney Brandon Zanotti said.

No police were hurt during either that exchange or earlier gunfire allegedly from the suspect about 3:30 a.m. as police investigated what they said was a woman screaming from the apartment, the officials said. Police did not return fire after being fired upon the first time, Zanotti said.

A Marion police officer had heard the screams shortly before 3:30 a.m. while investigating two vehicles, each with their interior lights on, at the nearby Appletree Apartments, 109 Russell St. The officer found gloves and ammunition “laid out” in one of the vehicles, Sons said.

The incident resulted in an evacuation of nearby residences and the daylong closure of Marion Junior High School. Main Street from Russell Street to Bentley Street remained closed since the start of the hostage situation for at least much of the morning as police investigated.

Zanotti said the woman’s identity was being withheld and said several factors, including the relationship between her and Green, continue to be investigated. He added Green did not live at the apartment but it is unclear whether the woman did.

Zanotti did say Green had a criminal past, most recently a 2011 residential burglary, and had been released from the Illinois Department of Corrections in January.

“I do want to thank Illinois State Police, the Marion Police Department and the Williamson County Sheriff’s Office for the absolutely impeccable police work that they did,” Zanotti said.

Update, April 28, 12:03 p.m.:

The suspect in a Marion standoff is dead, Illinois State Police Lt. William Sons said at a news conference Tuesday in Marion.

Joshua A. Green, 27, of Marion was killed in gunfire at 7:24 a.m. after he left an apartment at 1408 W. Main with a female hostage.

Green left the building, refused to surrender and fired shots at officers on the scene. Police returned gunfire and struck the suspect. Green was pronounced dead at the scene, Sons said.

The woman also suffered gunshot wounds, Sons said, and was flown out of the area for treatment. It is not clear when she was struck, Sons said.

At 3:21 a.m., a Marion officer observed a dome light on inside a car at 109 Russell St. Upon investigation, the officer found gloves and ammunition inside the car. The officer then heard screams from a woman inside the apartment on Main.

At 3:28 a.m., the officer was fired upon by the suspect, Sons said, learning it was a hostage situation.

Update, April 28, 10:49 a.m.:

A witness at the scene said it appears a standoff is over. Main Street remains closed between Russell and Bentley.

A press conference has been called. This story will continue to be updated.

Update, April 28, 9:21 a.m.:

Marion Mayor Bob Butler said Tuesday the incident unfolding in Marion is a hostage situation involving a woman.

This story will be updated as more information becomes available.

Original story, April 28, 8:26 a.m.:

MARION — Parts of Main Street and Russell Street are closed as the Marion Police Department responds to a person who is "armed and barricaded," according to a release from the department.

Police are asking people to stay out of the area.

This story will be updated with more information as it becomes available.

— The Southern