Reports indicate that a federal agent in Detroit fatally shot a Black man 10 times who was allegedly wielding a hammer on Monday triggering demonstrations in the Motor City.

Law enforcement was reportedly executing a warrant for 20-year-old Terrance Kellom on Monday stemming from an alleged robbery. Kellom was hiding in the attic when the fugitive task force arrived to his home, according to reports.

Officials said that Kellom came out from the attic and lunged at agents with a hammer when one of them shot him at least 10 times killing him.

Kellom’s father, Kevin, said that his son was not hiding and did not have a hammer. Agents entered the home claiming they had a search warrant, which reportedly didn’t surface until three hours after the shooting.

“My son died with clenched fists. He didn’t have a hammer … They assassinated my son in my face,” Kevin said in one report. “I don’t understand why my son was killed. My son did not deserve this.”

The agent who fired the shots, who’s name has not been released, is a seven-year veteran of the U.S. Immigration Customs and Enforcement (ICE). He cannot be questioned by police until Friday due to federal law that requires him to be sequestered.

Detroit Police Chief James Craig said in one report that the shooting was necessary.

“The agent felt that he was in imminent danger because the suspect was advancing on him in possession of this hammer,” Craig said. “He responded to overcome the suspect’s actions and used deadly force.”

U.S. Attorney Barbara McQuade said in a statement that the incident is under investigation and that agents must use deadly force sometimes.

“In a situation like this, it is important to protect the rights of both the deceased and the officer,” she said. “Therefore, we are closely monitoring the investigation.”

Michigan Congressional members John Conyers and Brenda Lawrence released a joint statement on Tuesday. They said the shooting raises concerns.

“It is important to note that this incident is under investigation by both Michigan and federal authorities,” they said. “Our offices will continue to monitor the status of the investigations to ensure that justice is served for the families involved and our community.”

The shooting has sparked demonstrations in Detroit. On Tuesday, groups and organizations rallied at the scene of the shooting carrying signs and marched to a high school. A community meeting was also held.

Like this: Like Loading...