Jim Walsh

The Republic | azcentral.com

Mesa police identified an armed man shot to death by officers on Wednesday as a 33-year-old transient who had pleaded guilty to a domestic-violence related assault six years ago.

Joshua Deysie was an acquaintance of the homeowner where the shooting took place, but investigators are still trying to understand why Deysie was agitated, standing in the driveway of a house near Southern Avenue and Stapley Drive and waving a handgun during a confrontation with police.

Detective Steve Berry, a police spokesman, said officers engaged in about a 20-minute standoff with Deysie outside the tract home in the 1300 block of East Harmony on Wednesday afternoon. Berry said Deysie was running in and out of the house, brandishing the gun as police pleaded with him repeatedly to put it down.

Berry said more than one officer eventually fired at Deysie, fatally wounding him, after he leveled the handgun and pointed it at officers. Neighbors reported hearing Deysie pleading with police to shoot him, at one point telling them to "put a hole in me."

Deysie pleaded guilty on March 10, 2009, to aggravated assault and a domestic-violence offense, according to Maricopa County Superior Court records.

A month later, he was placed on probation for four years and ordered to spend 30 days in the county jail and to participate in counseling programs. He was ordered not to drink alcohol as a condition of probation, court records show.

Deysie was back in court on June 5, 2012, on a probation-violation case. His probation was extended to Nov. 11, 2013, and he was ordered to again spend 30 days in the county jail. Deysie eventually was released from probation in November 2013.

Neighbors backed police accounts of the shooting, saying officers appeared to do everything possible to spare Deysie's life, but he refused to cooperate.

"He shouldn't have been waving a gun,'' neighbor Shelbi Randolph said. "He was saying, 'Shoot me. Put a hole in my chest.'''

Diane Ethington, another neighbor, said she did not see police officers fire at Deysie but she heard them pleading with him to put down the gun. Ethington said she sensed what was about to happen and shielded her children from witnessing the shooting.

"If he had just listened, it would have ended perfectly fine for him,'' Ethington said. "I think they gave him every chance. They were patient beyond what they needed to be.''

Berry said police did not want to take Deysie's life.

"I think every police department is hypersensitive'' in the wake of controversy nationwide about use of force incidents, he said. "That's the last thing an officer wants to do, to become involved in an officer-involved shooting.''