Dash Coleman

After hours of trying to save the life of a soldier believed to have a gun, police entered his Berwick-area apartment Wednesday afternoon to find him dead. On Wednesday night, officials withheld the 30-year-old victim's name until the Army could contact additional family members.

Hostage negotiation team members had been trying to talk to the man, who had threatened suicide, for hours at his apartment in Century Fenwick Village apartments off Berwick Boulevard, where officers were called just before noon by concerned family members. At the time, reports were that he had barricaded himself inside and had access to weapons.

"It is a sad situation," said Julian Miller, Savannah-Chatham police spokesman. "We were hoping not to have this type of ending."

Police said the active-duty soldier died of a self-inflicted wound, but did not define the nature.

Detectives, forensics officers and Army CID investigators are working together on the investigation along with the coroner's office, Miller said. Chaplains from the metro police department and the Army were on scene.

Between the time police arrived at Century Fenwick Village and when a SWAT team entered his apartment about 3:50 p.m., Hostage Negotiation Team members tried to talk him into coming out peacefully, and officers blocked off access to the complex and neighboring Glenwood Groves townhomes.

Residents were allowed to leave but not return, and bus routes for four public schools were affected when the situation carried on past 3 p.m.

Students who live in the Berwick area and attend Gould Elementary, West Chatham Middle, Southwest Middle and New Hampstead High were held at school until either their parents could pick them up or police gave the all-clear for buses to transport them home. Students going to specialty schools or charter programs were taken to Gould to be picked up by parents.

Miller said the man was the only one inside the apartment. He did not, however, live alone.

Miller said officers did not fire any weapons. About 4 p.m., they said the scene was secure and began letting residents return to the apartments.

While the situation was ongoing, many residents gathered in the drizzle across the street in the Berwick shopping complex.

Sharon Nichols saw police drive into the apartment area and watched some officers put on SWAT gear. As she left her townhome on foot about 2 p.m., she said she heard officers talking to the man inside the apartment through a microphone, urging him to be calm.

Bernie Waren, who lives in one of the townhomes, said shortly before 3 p.m. that he saw officers still negotiating with the man as he walked away.

"They were asking him to come out with his hands up and seek some help," Warren said. "They were calm about it and not pushy."

The investigation is ongoing.