It took nearly two hours for a suspect to get medical help after getting shot by Bernalillo County deputies this week.Deputy Greg Grundhoffer fired nine shots while on a domestic violence call Sunday.It began with deputies trying to get a broken down car started, but ended with Grundhoffer shooting and killing Billy Grimm. Investigators say Grundhoffer’s decision to fire came as Grimm reached for a gun.Once those shots were fired, it took an hour and 45 minutes for Grimm to get medical help.The Sheriff’s Office said deputies treated the situation as a barricaded armed subject, as Grimm was moving around in the vehicle with a handgun after the shots were fired. In audio recordings of the incident, deputies can be heard calling out to Grimm several more times.“Billy we want to get you some help, man,” says one deputy.Deputies were able to get him out of the vehicle with help from a K-9 officer. He was taken to a hospital nearly two hours after the shooting.Grimm died at University of New Mexico Hospital.Grundhoffer is on paid administrative leave. Mobile users: Tap for video

It took nearly two hours for a suspect to get medical help after getting shot by Bernalillo County deputies this week.

Deputy Greg Grundhoffer fired nine shots while on a domestic violence call Sunday.

Advertisement

It began with deputies trying to get a broken down car started, but ended with Grundhoffer shooting and killing Billy Grimm. Investigators say Grundhoffer’s decision to fire came as Grimm reached for a gun.

Once those shots were fired, it took an hour and 45 minutes for Grimm to get medical help.

The Sheriff’s Office said deputies treated the situation as a barricaded armed subject, as Grimm was moving around in the vehicle with a handgun after the shots were fired. In audio recordings of the incident, deputies can be heard calling out to Grimm several more times.

“Billy we want to get you some help, man,” says one deputy.

Deputies were able to get him out of the vehicle with help from a K-9 officer. He was taken to a hospital nearly two hours after the shooting.



Grimm died at University of New Mexico Hospital.



Grundhoffer is on paid administrative leave.

Mobile users: Tap for video