SOUTH EL MONTE >> A man with a meat cleaver attacked and wounded his neighbor, killed her husband then was shot dead by deputies Tuesday when he refused to drop his weapon and kept approaching deputies, a sheriff’s detective said.

Deputy Amber Smith said a caller reported an assault with a deadly weapon around 12:40 p.m. She said the caller didn’t know the address where it was happening but mentioned it was near the 10400 block of Enloe Street.

• Video: At the scene of the deputy-involved shooting

Sheriff’s Homicide Lt. Victor Lewandowski said detectives don’t know what happened before the fatal assault. No other family members were home at the time.

He said the suspect first attacked the woman then went after the husband.

Deputies made contact with the woman who was bleeding from the head. They saw the suspect in the flower bed area of his neighbors’ home.

Lewandowski said deputies saw the man making a chopping motion and noticed the other victim on the ground.

He said deputies yelled at the suspect to drop his weapon. The man didn’t heed the order and allegedly made a move toward the deputies. He was shot once.

The suspect kept coming toward the deputies and said something to the effect that they’ll have to kill him, according to Lewandowski.

Deputies shot the man again. Lewandowski didn’t know how many shots were fired.

But workers in the area heard a dozen shots.

The suspect died at the scene. Of the two victims, the woman was taken to a local hospital while the man was pronounced dead at the scene. Authorities haven’t released their names. Lewandowski described the three as Asians in their 30s and 40s.

• Photos: South El Monte deputy-involved shooting

Luis Ramirez was not home at the time of the incident but said his daughter saw the suspect stabbing the woman, then attacking the man. He said the two victims were a married couple and the suspect was their next-door neighbor.

“She said the guy was chopping (them) down, killing them,” said Luis Ramirez, a 40-year resident of the neighborhood who said the victims had lived across the street from him for more than 20 years. “They were nice people, that’s what I’m trying to understand.”

• Video: Mobile command post arrives

Ramirez said the neighborhood is very calm and that he hadn’t heard of any disturbances between the suspect and victims. He said an Asian family lives at the home but did not know the suspect.

“We just heard some popping,” said Tam Trong, manager of LYX Inc., a printing company at the end of the block. “We didn’t realize even (that) it was gunshots until we hear sirens and realized something was wrong.”

Trong said the area is quiet and the neighbors are mostly older, longtime residents. The only crimes he had heard of in the area are break-ins, he said, adding that the business has been at Enloe and Santa Anita avenues since 1997.

– Staff writer Ruby Gonzales contributed to this report