Schwalm home Constantia.JPG

David Schwalm's home on Auringer Road in Constantia, where an Oswego County sheriff's deputy fatally shot him May 8 when Schwalm leveled a shotgun at the deputy, according to state police.

(John O'Brien | jobrien@syracuse.com)

CONSTANTIA, N.Y. -- A brother of a man fatally shot by an Oswego County sheriff's deputy three weeks ago said today he doesn't blame the deputy.

Stephen Schwalm, the older brother of David Schwalm, told Syracuse.com he empathized with Deputy Mark Walton. Walton shot David Schwalm three times May 8 after Schwalm leveled a shotgun at him, state police said.

"He was doing his job," Stephen Schwalm said of Walton. "Unfortunately, (David Schwalm) had the gun there, so they couldn't do anything else."

Stephen Schwalm said he had no dispute with state police and an Oswego County grand jury finding that Walton was justified.

"Actually, I have empathy for him," Schwalm said. "I feel for the deputy and his family. It's not an easy thing to go through, for sure. He didn't start out his day to have to do that."

Stephen Schwalm said he talked to his brother every day on the phone before the shooting. David was interested in keeping up with the latest news, and often wrote letters to the editor of the newspaper, his brother said.

They were best friends, Stephen Schwalm said.

Oswego County Sheriff's Deputy Mark Walton

"He was a beautiful man," Stephen Schwalm said. David Schwalm ran his own commercial and residential painting business and had a lot of loyal customers, Stephen Schwalm said.

David's friends and family got together last week to hold a celebration of his life at a park on Bernhards Bay, Stephen Schwalm said.

He declined to talk about what led his brother to call the Onondaga County Medical Examiner's Office in the morning of May 8 and say he was suicidal.

Outside David Schwalm's home on Auringer Road in Constantia, Schwalm posted a no-trespassing sign as a joke years ago, his family said. It reads: "Notis: Trespassers will B persecuted to the full extent of 2 mongrel dogs which never was over sochiable to strangers & 1 dubble brl shot gun which ain't loaded with sofa pillers. Dam if I ain't gittin tired of this hell raisin on my place."

For years, David Schwalm had this sign posted as a joke outside his home, his family said.

State police Maj. Francis Coots announced Friday morning that his agency's investigation determined Walton fired five shots at Schwalm after Schwalm leveled a shotgun at him.

Walton's shots struck Schwalm three times in the front of his body, Coots said. The deputy's actions were appropriate and justified because he was in fear for his life, Coots said.

Contact John O'Brien anytime | email | Twitter | 315-470-2187