A Florida man and his 14-year-old niece, who both died from self-inflicted gunshot wounds after a high-speed chase, were believed to be having an 'inappropriate relationship', according to police.

Benjamin James Edwards III, 31, and Shyanne Sexton sparked the dramatic pursuit after driving away from a fuel station in Cortez, Colorado without paying for $41 worth of gas, police said.

Sexton was reported missing by her mother on May 4 in a report stating there was an active investigation into allegations that Edwards was having a sexual relationship with his niece.

Benjamin James Edwards III, 31, and Shyanne Sexton, 14, were found dead from self-inflicted gunshot wounds after a high-speed chase on a New Mexico highway

Sexton was reported missing by her mother on May 4 in a report stating there was an active investigation into allegations that sexual activity had occurred between her and Edwards

The report said Sexton had refused to go to school that day and was gone when her mother returned to their Florida home that afternoon, according to WJAX-TV.

Also reported missing was a pistol belonging to Sexton's stepfather.

It is believed that the same gun was used in the suicides, St. John's County Sheriff Commander Charles Mulligan told Kob 4.

Edwards and Sexton died from apparent self-inflicted gunshot wounds to their mouths, according to the Office of the Medical Investigator.

Police found the uncle and niece dead inside a Toyota 4 Runner after the car stopped on a dead end road.

During the chase, which began around 11am on Monday, Edwards continued to shoot at officers as he led authorities along US Highway 491 at nearly 100mph speeds, police said.

Police found the uncle and niece dead inside their Toyota 4 Runner after the car stopped on a dead end road and Edwards and Sexton had apparent self-inflicted gun shot wounds to their mouths

A patrol vehicle was shot at least once and officers also saw Edwards shoot at a German couple driving in the opposite direction. They were unharmed, according to the Cortez Journal.

Authorities from the New Mexico State Patrol and the Navajo Nation and Bureau of Indian Affairs joined the chase after Edwards and Sexton entered New Mexico.

Police said no officers fired on the black SUV during the incident.

The chase ended after the car veered off of the highway, through a fence and onto Najavo Nation land near the town of Shiprock, according to KRQE.

Edwards and Sexton did not respond to police commands to exit the car when it stopped. Officers found they were both dead after breaking through a window.

It is believed that a gun reported stolen from Sexton's stepfather was used in the suicides, according toSt. John's County Sheriff Commander Charles Mulligan

During the chase, which began around 11am on Monday, Edwards continued to shoot at officers as he led authorities along US Highway 491 (pictured) going nearly 100mph, police said

The chase from Colorado to New Mexico lasted for more than 40 miles before it ended tragically in Navajo Nation land on Monday

Edwards had recently been arrested for child cruelty, burglary and property damage last month for allegedly beating up and smashing the car windows of a 17-year-old he claimed had sold drugs to his daughter.

A St Johns spokesman told the Daily Mail Online that there were multiple other incidents where Sexton had attempted to run away from home.

Deborah Ann Rose, Sexton's grandmother, wrote tributes to the teenager she referred to as her 'girly girl' on her Facebook page.

'How do you handle such a devastating loss? I can't begin to understand,' she wrote. 'I know my granddaughter knew that I loved her.'

In another post she wrote 'Shyanne Leigh Sexton, you will always be granny's angel.'

'Never to be forgotten, always loved.'