Family members said Denis Reyes (pictured), who suffers from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, started acting strangely inside their E. 194th St. apartment in Fordham on Thursday night. (Facebook )

The family of an emotionally disturbed Bronx man who died in NYPD custody on Friday filed a complaint against the cops involved in the dispute, claiming the officers caused his unexpected death.

"They came and they killed my son," Denis Reyes' heartbroken mother Blanca Sierra told the Daily News. "My heart left when they took him out the door. He was 40, but he was still my baby."

Advertisement

"When (police) brought him out I kissed him…when I kissed him he was cold," she said.

Family members said the 40-year-old Reyes, who suffers from bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, started acting strangely inside their E. 194th St. apartment in Fordham on Thursday night.

Advertisement

"He started saying he wasn't feeling well, then he went into the bathroom and pulled down the shower curtain," Reyes' brother Wilfredo Bracero, 45, said. "He came out and threw a pot of beans on the stove onto the floor. He was knocking over lamps. He was throwing furniture."

Cops received a 911 call that Reyes had been breaking furniture.

Sources said arriving officers handcuffed Reyes and, when he kept kicking at officers, used other cuffs on his ankles.

When other cops arrived with a Velcro strap that was wrapped around his legs below the knees, the ankle cuffs were removed, the sources said.

With EMS now on the scene, Reyes, who had never been arrested but had a history of psychological issues, was placed into a wheelchair. But according to the sources, as paramedics were taking Reyes to the ambulance, he went into cardiac arrest.

EMS performed CPR on him en route to St. Barnabas Hospital, where the father of seven died.

Sources said the cops handcuffed Reyes and, when he kept kicking at officers, used other cuffs on his ankles. (Facebook )

Reyes had been drinking, popping prescription pills and taking synthetic pot before his mother called 911, police sources said.

Sierra, 65, admitted that she called police, but was hoping to get paramedics. Instead, her son was tackled by eight cops, family members said.

Advertisement

"(The cops) took me out in the street and closed the shades so no one could see," Sierra said. "They had him alone for 40 minutes while I was out on the street."

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Bracero remained in the apartment, but said cops forced him into a hallway, so he couldn't see what happened.

"He was yelling, 'Stop, you're hurting me.'" Bracero said. "He was calling my name, yelling, 'Please don't leave me.' When they took him out one of his eyes was bloody like he was beaten. There should have been less force."

Bracero refuted claims that his brother was smoking synthetic pot before the incident and "may have had" only one beer before police arrived.

Elizabeth Calacios, Reyes' ex-wife, said the family plans to sue the NYPD.

"Police need to learn how to handle disturbed people," the 45-year-old woman said. "If they can't, then they need to go back to school to learn to be real police officers."

Advertisement

An autopsy was being done Friday. The NYPD is conducting an internal investigation, as it does for all deaths in custody. The FDNY is conducting what a spokesman called a "basic review."

rparascandola@nydailynews.com