Sacramento police said an officer shot and killed a man who confronted officers with what they thought was a gun when they responded to a call of domestic violence Friday afternoon.The shooting took place about 5:30 p.m. at a home in the 2000 block of 61st Street.Officers initially responded to the home after a neighbor called police after hearing a disturbance involving a man and woman.When officers arrived, they found a woman outside the home. A 42-year-old man then confronted officers with what appeared to be a handgun, police said.One of the officers, fearing for his safety and the safety of his partner, opened fire while retreating from the front of the home, authorities said.The man was taken to a nearby hospital, where he died from his wounds.The gun the man was holding was later found to be a black, semiautomatic-style BB gun. The weapon was visually indistinguishable from a real handgun, according to police.The suspect's name hasn't been released.Officers blocked a two-block radius around a home on 61st Street, south of Highway 50 as they investigated the shooting well into the night.The two officers involved have been put on administrative leave. KCRA's Sharokina Shams contributed to this report.

Sacramento police said an officer shot and killed a man who confronted officers with what they thought was a gun when they responded to a call of domestic violence Friday afternoon.

The shooting took place about 5:30 p.m. at a home in the 2000 block of 61st Street.

Advertisement Related Content Girlfriend: Sacramento police woke up man minutes before shooting

Officers initially responded to the home after a neighbor called police after hearing a disturbance involving a man and woman.



When officers arrived, they found a woman outside the home. A 42-year-old man then confronted officers with what appeared to be a handgun, police said.



One of the officers, fearing for his safety and the safety of his partner, opened fire while retreating from the front of the home, authorities said.



The man was taken to a nearby hospital, where he died from his wounds.



The gun the man was holding was later found to be a black, semiautomatic-style BB gun. The weapon was visually indistinguishable from a real handgun, according to police.



The suspect's name hasn't been released.



Officers blocked a two-block radius around a home on 61st Street, south of Highway 50 as they investigated the shooting well into the night.



The two officers involved have been put on administrative leave.

KCRA's Sharokina Shams contributed to this report.