A suspect in a series of dollar store robberies was shot and killed by a Harvey police officer who returned fire in a church parking lot Sunday afternoon, according to a city spokesman.

An autopsy Monday determined Ronnel C. Wade, of the 15600 block of Lexington Avenue in Harvey, died of a gunshot wound to the head, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. Wade's death was ruled a homicide.

Advertisement

"He barely had $100 … he robbed it for less than a $100 … it's not worth life,'' said Harvey spokesman Sean Howard. "It's tragic. Very tragic.''

The man, whose identity has not been released, was dead on the scene, according to Howard. The Cook County medical examiner's office was not notified as of Sunday evening.

Advertisement

It started about 2:30 p.m. when a 911 call came in about an armed robbery at the Family Dollar Store, 15901 S. Halsted St., in south suburban Harvey.

The suspect fled on foot, and a person who saw him with "single dollar bills rolling out of his pocket'' began pursuing the suspect in a car, Howard said.

Officers who were nearby also gave chase.

The suspect made it about two blocks before bursting into St. John the Baptist Catholic Church, 15746 Union Ave., as about 200 parishioners were gathered in a fellowship hall eating a meal after the 11 a.m. service, Howard said.

"He ran into the bathroom and tried to hide some of the cash,'' Howard said.

When the man ran outside in the parking lot, he was confronted by an officer.

"He had his weapon in his hand and pointed it in the direction of officers, who asked him to lower it,'' Howard said.

He didn't lower it and began firing, "multiple times … at least twice,'' the spokesman said.

Advertisement

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

A Harvey officer, "in fear and for the safety of his own life,'' fired once and wounded the subject in the head, Howard said.

"He courageously wounded and killed him," he said. "He's a hero to this entire community because this guy would have kept shooting in the parking lot.

"His bullets nearly struck residents in the parking lot. The residents were pretty shaken up.''

Howard said it could have been worse.

"We could have had a hostage situation (in the church), and we're very fortunate that we didn't,'' he said.

The suspect matches the description of a man who robbed two other dollar stores recently, including one at 3 p.m. May 10 at 159th and Wood streets.

Advertisement

No parishioners were hurt Sunday, but two officers were taken to a hospital as a precaution, including the Harvey police officer who shot the suspect and a Phoenix officer who assisted.