HOUSTON – Jeffery Conlin, the suspect accused of killing Houston police officer Richard Martin, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, Channel 2 has learned.

Just after noon Tuesday, HPD confirmed Conlin's death.

Martin, who was in the area Monday, heard the approaching chase and acted to help apprehend the fleeing suspect.

Conlin was accused of running over Martin on Kirkwood Road at St. Mary's Lane early Monday morning during a police chase as Martin was laying down spike strips.

"Officer Martin attempted to deploy spike strips to disable the vehicle. We have every belief to indicate to us that the suspect intentionally struck and killed Officer Martin," Houston Police Chief Charles McClelland said.

Martin was pronounced dead at the scene.

Channel 2 legal analyst Brian Wice said Conlin was out on bond when all of this happened Monday.

"He was charged with three different felonies. Drug case, felony possession of a weapon and felony possession of body armor. Bonded out and essentially never went back to court," Wice said.

So if he skipped bond, should he have been locked in jail because of that?

Wice said no.

"It's easy to second-guess the system and those who let him out on bond but again, the Texas constitution and United States Constitution says we don't lock people up for crimes they may yet commit."

Conlin eventually pulled over at 7500 North Shepherd at West Little York. Officers there reported hearing a gunshot from inside the vehicle. Officers set up a perimeter and then waited for the HPD special weapons and tactics team to arrive.

Upon arrival, SWAT officers then approached the van and found Conlin had shot himself. A shotgun and a handgun were recovered at the scene.

Conlin, 33, was transported to Memorial Hermann Hospital where he remained in critical condition until Tuesday.

It appears Conlin is not connected to the robbery call on the Northwest Freeway, police said, but the U-Haul van he was driving was stolen.

Channel 2 Investigates found that Conlin has an extensive arrest record in Harris County that dates back to 2002.

Most recently, following a theft charge in January, Conlin was charged with three additional felonies.

There were active warrants for those felonies which, according to court documents, include charges for illegal possession of body armor, drug possession and a felon in possession of a gun.

Conlin had also been earlier convicted on another theft charge in the past.

Martin, 47, was assigned to the Westside Patrol Division. The four-year veteran was sworn in as an officer in November 2010. Martin leaves behind two children -- a 22-year-old daughter and an 11-year-old son.

"It's very hard and difficult when you lose a friend, you lose a comrade, and still you've go to maintain your composure and professionalism so you can still do your job, conduct the investigation and get through that process," McClelland said.

Estela Rocha lives next door to Martin in Katy. She says he has lived there with his 11-year-old son for the past eight years.

"I think he was the greatest dad. He was always out playing with his son and everything. His son used to play with my grandson out here so," said Rocha. "I'm really happy that they caught him (Conlin), you know, really happy they caught him because people like that don't deserve to be out there."

Before joining HPD, Martin worked in Information Technology for several years.

Houston Mayor Annise Parker issued a statement that read: "I am deeply saddened by the death of another Houston police officer in the line of duty. Our men and women in blue leave their homes every day not knowing if they will return at the end of their shifts. They willingly place their lives on the line to protect the rest of us. I am praying for Officer Martin's family and HPD as they mourn this loss. All of Houston mourns with them."

Martin's funeral will be at 2 p.m. Friday at Grace Church at 14505 Gulf Freeway, Houston, Texas 77034. HPD will be assisting with funeral arrangements, a spokesperson said.

The Conlin family made the following statement regarding the death of Officer Martin and Conlin:

"On behalf of the Conlin family, we express our deepest sympathies to the family of Officer Richard Martin. To his two children, especially, we are so very sorry they have lost their father under these tragic circumstances. We are grieving for Officer Martin and praying continuously for his family.

We are left heartbroken and filled with regret for what has happened. Jeff was a good soul with a big heart. He was loved by so many people. Unfortunately, Jeff was struggling with an addiction. He was living in darkness and we could not reach him. We could not save him.

Many people have asked us what they might do to help during this devastating time. Please donate to the 100 Club, as we have done, in support of Officer Martin's family. We believe that is what Jeff would want."

Donations for Martin are being accepted at The 100 Club Survivors Fund, which provides benefits to the dependents of law enforcement employees killed in the line of duty. Click here to donate.