Advertisement Suspect killed, officer shot in Lancaster Officer wounded, suspect killed in East Chestnut Street shootout Share Copy Link Copy

A police officer was shot in Lancaster City this afternoon and a suspect was killed.- NEW REPORT: Latest on officer's condition - Video: DA talks about what happened during shooting- Photos: Officer shot scene- Video: Suspect's family speaks to News 8- Video: News 8 reports from scene- Get updates from WGAL on FacebookTwo relatives have identified the deceased as Anthony Gomez, 29. His last known address was in Harrisburg. The shooting occurred at an apartment at 305 East Chestnut Street around 12:30 p.m. Officials say two officers were invited inside by residents, but the suspect did not respond to verbal commands. The officer who deployed non-deadly force to the suspect was in turn shot by the suspect. The joining officer then shot the suspect, who died.Police said officers were trying to serve a warrant for simple assault and terroristic threats, stemming from a domestic assault on Monday night, when the suspect opened fire. In that case, police say Gomez went to a woman's house and threatened to kill her and her four- and five-year-old children. They say he beat her repeatedly and displayed a handgun. One officer was struck twice. Another officer returned fire and killed Gomez.The wounded officer, described as a veteran, was wearing a bullet-proof vest, but was struck in the shoulder just above the vest. He was also shot in the hand. The officer was taken to Lancaster General Hospital. Police said he was alert and conscious at the time. Police have not yet released his name.After the shooting, officers conducted a search of the apartment to investigate the circumstances of the shooting.Lancaster County District Attorney Craig Stedman said all preliminary indications show that officers acted appropriately.Video: DA talks about what happened during shootingFacebook embed from KatelynNews 8's Katelyn Smith is at the scene and following this story. Get updates from her on Facebook here.Stay with News 8 for all updates. Suspect was father of 5Family members of Anthony Gomez said he was the father of five children. They also say he fired first in Tuesday afternoon's shootout with police on East Chestnut Street."He was born and raised out on the streets, you know what I mean. He's always running from here to there," said Julio Sepulveda.Relatives said Gomez was at a friend's house when police showed up to serve a warrant."The cops was knocking on the door and my nephew started shooting," Sepulveda said.Police fired back, killing Gomez.Family members say Gomez started carrying a gun about two weeks ago against his family wishes. He had recently gotten out of jail and was still on parole."That's bizarre. My nephew was never like that. That's the streets that got him like that," said Sepulveda.Sepulveda said he wants to know the name of the officer who shot his nephew, but that he understands it was in self-defense.