“Not only do now we have the officer that had to make that decision who’s dealing with the mental anguish of taking someone’s life, but also that family suffers because they lost a loved one too,” says Kentucky State Trooper Corey King.

What started as a drug investigation, is now an investigation into an officer involved shooting at an Owensboro motel.

Kentucky State Police say Chrislon Talbott, 38, died in a shootout with Owensboro Police officers and a member of KSP’s DESI drug unit. It happened just after midnight at the Motel 6 near Frederica Street.

On a colder than usual night in Owensboro, the scene at the Motel 6 near Frederica Street was more tense than usual.

“I’ve seen a lady getting escorted from the room. There was a lot of screaming from the lady,” says Jason Webb, who says he witnessed the situation while staying at the motel.

KSP says owensboro police attempted to arrest Chrislon Talbott just after 8:00 PM Wednesday at his room on the 2nd floor as part of a drug investigation. A woman was in the hotel room with him at the time. Talbott allegedly told authorities he wouldn’t be going to jail.

“Then they waited around for about five hours trying to get this guy to come out of the room,” says Webb. “He never came out of the room.”

“Once the detectives realized that there is someone else in the room with him, they deemed it unsafe and did the right thing and backed up on the one statement that he was going to be uncooperative and he wasn’t going to the penitentiary. That statement alone was enough to let the officers back up,” King says.

The woman was allowed to leave the room later that night. investigators say Owensboro Police negotiators tried to talk Talbott out of the room for nearly four hours.

“They brought the preacher, his preacher here. His mom, and everybody tried to talk him out, and everybody couldn’t talk him out,” says Webb.

“What we are seeing is that, at least from witnesses and the statements coming from these officers that were within the perimeter, that shortly after midnight he brandished a pistol, then there was an exchange of gunfire,” King adds.

Troopers say they’re not sure how many bullets struck Talbott. Three Owensboro Police officers, Troy Couch, Chris Hayes and Matthew Ralph, plus KSP Detective Matt Conley, are on paid leave. Troopers say the woman who was in the room earlier that night was unharmed, but was unsure what her connection to Talbott was. An autopsy is scheduled for Friday.