Robert Allen

Detroit Free Press

A police officer who shot and killed an 18-year-old armed with a lawnmower blade in May in Trenton won't face criminal charges, the Wayne County Prosecutor's Office announced today, finding the shooting justified.

Kyle Baker, 18, had cut an officer with the blade and was advancing on him when the officer fired a shot in self defense, according to the prosecutor. Baker had been hit three times with a stun gun, with little effect, and cut an officer's hand before the officer fired one shot to his abdomen, killing him.

The two Trenton police officers had arrived at the home at about 4:30 p.m. May 28 on the 2800 block of Longmeadow to check on Baker after hearing from high school officials that he'd been acting erratically and paranoid before leaving campus. Baker, who was a senior at Trenton High School with a week left until graduation, ran a small business landscaping and sharpening lawnmower blades at the home.

Trenton High School teen shot by police dies in hospital

Police found Baker at the bottom of the basement stairs, armed with the 2-foot-long blade, according to the prosecutor. He climbed the stairs toward the officers, ignoring several commands to stop and drop the weapon, the prosecutor reports.

After one officer used the stun gun on him twice, the other used a stun gun one time before getting cut. The wound was 4 inches long and 1 1/2 inch deep. The officer fired the shot to Baker's abdomen, and the teen was taken to a local hospital where he died, according to the prosecutor.

Kym Worthy lays down the law on police

"In this case, the officers not only acted in self defense and defense of others, but no shots were fired until after the decedent had seriously injured one of the officers with a lawnmower blade and kept advancing," Prosecutor Kym Worthy said in the news release. "As a result, no charges against any officer will be issued."

The investigation included civilians, police and medical witnesses along with photographic evidence and medical records.

Contact Robert Allen at rallen@freepress.com or @rallenMI.