Steph Solis, and Andrew Ford

Asbury Park Press

MIDDLETOWN In the moments before Scott McAllister was killed by police, authorities say, he wielded a knife, made threatening statements, and moved toward the officer who fatally shot him.

The Attorney General's Office concluded the Monmouth County Emergency Response Team officer used "an acceptable level of force" in shooting McAllister May 26, according to a statement issued Tuesday. McAllister engaged police in a five-hour standoff, holding his infant son hostage, before the siege ended.

"The facts and circumstances reasonably led Officer 1 to believe that his actions were immediately necessary to protect himself, his fellow officers and McAllister’s infant son," Delie Honig, director of New Jersey Division of Criminal Justice, said in the statement.

The MOCERT officer, who was not identified, shot McAllister, 39, as other police stormed the house at 33 Bayside Parkway to rescue the 13-month-old hostage, ending the standoff. MOCERT is composed of officers from several police agencies; the statement didn't say what agency employs the officer who killed McAllister.

Cops kill Middletown man who was holding son hostage

Deadly force is justified if an officer feels it is necessary to "protect the officer or another person from imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm," according to the state Attorney General's Use-of-Force policy.

Based on the investigation's findings, Honig determined the office did not have to present the shooting to a grand jury, "because the undisputed facts showed that the use of force was justified under the law."

MOCERT officers operate under the Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office. Spokesman Charles Webster declined to comment on the results of the investigation.

The Attorney General's Officeshed light on the hours leading up to the shooting.

Domestic dispute snowballs

McAllister started making threats before police showed up, according to the Attorney General's Office statement.

A neighbor called 911 around 11 p.m. May 25 reporting McAllister was drunk and had assaulted his live-in girlfriend at the Bayview Parkway home. The girlfriend ran off to the neighbor's house, leaving their 13-month-old boy in the house with McAllister.

Then McAllister started banging on the neighbor's front door.

"I have something for you," he said. The neighbor went outside and found a gas can outside of her house.

Fearing McAllister was going to burn her house down, the neighbor called 911 again.

McAllister was arrested in the past. Almost exactly a year before, McAllister was arrested after a domestic violence incident.

He was arrested in Highlands on May 26, 2014 and accused of aggravated assault, possession of a weapon unlawful possession of a weapon and criminal restraint, according to police records.

He was arrested again two days later and accused of violating a domestic-violence restraining order.

The case was remanded to Highlands Municipal Court. Court Administrator Sonia Paxtor denied APP access to any part of the case file, including the outcome of the case, because it involved domestic violence. Acting Monmouth County Trial Court Administrator John Italiano upheld the denial.

Suspect: "In my house, I kill"

Middletown police arrived at the scene around 11:30 p.m. By then, McAllister had already barricaded himself with his son. Township police called in MOCERT, which arrived shortly after to negotiate with him.

A neighbor of McAllister's said police came to his home that night, warning him to stay inside.

Patrick Rinn, 28, a neighbor and friend, said he heard McAllister yelling that night.

"He came out at one point, he was by the window and he basically yelled at the cops something to the effect of: 'Get off my property, you pigs.'"

Rinn said he and others were later evacuated from their homes during the standoff.

For nearly five hours, police tried to negotiate with McAllister. They reached out to him several times.

McAllister sent text messages to his girlfriend, who was not identified: "any force will be met with force" and "if you want to go home to your family you will leave now, in my house I kill."

The statement says McAllister brandished a long knife during the standoff, tapping it against a window by the front door of his house. At another point, he threw a beer bottle toward officers and cursed at them. He told them to "get off my property" and that they would need "the big truck" to get to him.

Report made in wake of mass shootings suggests no change on gun laws

Shooting in the bedroom

By about 4 a.m., McAllister was becoming "increasingly combative" and police decided to go in to secure his child, who was in his crib, in his bedroom, according to the statement. "Other methods" were unsuccessful in coaxing McAllister out.

Officers prepared to enter the house. Some of them entered through the front door, while "Officer 1" was assigned to climb up a ladder to the child's bedroom to protect the child.

After police broke through the front door, McAllister ran to the child's bedroom, the statement said.

While on the ladder, Officer 1 saw McAllister through the open bedroom window. McAllister entered the bedroom with what the officer described as a "deranged" look on his face.

McAllister was holding a large knife in a "slashing position, like a sword," with the point of the knife facing up and the edge forward, the statement said. Officer 1 told investigators McAllister was holding the knife in a way that suggested he was going to slash with it or throw it.

“Show me your hands!” Officer 1 yelled, according to the statement. “Drop the knife!”

A second officer, who was supposed to enter the bedroom with Officer 1, said he saw McAllister swinging the knife with "an angry expression on his face," despite Officer 1's orders to drop the weapon.

McAllister advanced toward Officer 1, making a slashing motion with the knife, the statement said.

Officer 1 gave orders for McAllister to stay back.

Officer 1 told investigators McAllister did a "stutter step" as he approached, which the officer believed meant McAllister was about to stab him or throw the knife.

Officer 1 shot his Colt M4 service rifle twice and fell to the ground, suffering a minor injury.

McAllister was fatally wounded.

Other MOCERT officers stormed the house and found the baby. When police got to McAllister, he was dead. They found two knives, one 6 inches long and another 8 inches long, near McAllister's body.

None of the second officer's statements contradicted Officer 1's account, according to the statement.

The autopsy revealed McAllister had alcohol in his system. There were two gunshot wounds on McAllister's body: one that went through his left hand into his chest and another that went through his left shoulder and struck him in the head.

“I don’t know why they had to shoot the guy," said Rinn, the neighbor and friend. “If he had a knife, they could have subdued him without shooting him.”

The position of the gunshot wounds corroborate Officer 1's account that McAllister was about to stab him or throw the knife at him, the statement said. There was stippling on the back of McAllister's left arm and left hand at the entry wounds, the statement said, indicating he was close to the gun when it fired.

McAllister's neighbor recalled him as a guy who liked to fish off shore and barbecue.

McAllister's obituary, published online by Volk Leber Funeral Home, described him as a salvage diver, recreational SCUBA diver, sport fisherman and avid boater. His family could not be reached for comment.

"From the Pacific to the Atlantic to the Mediterranean and Caribbean Seas, he explored everything the world's vast oceans had to offer, from both above and below the surface," the obituary said.

Rinn said they were neighbors for about six months.

“He was generally a very nice, friendly, personable person," Rinn said. "From the short time I knew him.”

Steph Solis: 732-643-4043; ssolis@gannettnj.com