LYNDHURST — The man shot and killed by police at the township library Friday was armed with a large knife and couldn't be subdued by non-lethal force, authorities said.



Chief of Police James O'Connor said 36-year-old Kevin Allen "menaced" police with the utility knife before they shot him around 1:30 p.m. in the library's top floor.



"He was aggressive towards them....he charged at them with [the knife]," O'Connor said Friday night.



Allen was wanted by the Bergen County Sheriff's Office for failing to appear at a work release program last month and for contempt of court, spokesman Anthony Cureton said late Friday. Earlier, a law enforcement source said local police engaged Allen when he was spotted outside the library because he was wanted.



O'Connor said officers first tried to subdue Allen using non-lethal force, including using pepper-spray and a baton on him. Allen continued to charge at the officers with the large utility knife after police tried to stop him.



"They exhausted all means, to include pepper spray and their baton," the chief said in an interview. e

In an earlier press conference, the chief said investigators were interviewing several people, including a child, who were in the library during the confrontation.

Allen was often seen at the library, watching music videos and largely keeping to himself, according to people at the scene Friday afternoon. A small group of residents and students from the nearby high school gathered beyond police tape to watch investigators work at the library.

Jose Checo, 19, said he was driving down Valley Brook Avenue when police vehicles sped past him with lights and sirens blaring.

"I kept driving and saw them run out of their cars with their guns out, going into the library," he told NJ Advance Media.

Checo, who didn't witness the shooting, said he later saw the paramedics enter the library.

Students at Lyndhurst High School, about two blocks from the library said the school did not go into into lockdown and they first learned of the shooting from friends on Twitter.

Bergen County Prosecutor John L. Molinelli, whose office is investigating the shooting, did not release further details Friday.

No one answered the door at an address in Lyndhurst where the prosecutor said Allen lived.

Allen has a criminal history dating back several years in Bergen and Passaic counties, according to court records. In November 2006, he was arrested in Passaic County on child support warrants and also charged with narcotics possession and criminal trespass. In Bergen County, he was charged with improper behavior in March 2011, and on April 3, he was charged with escape. The circumstances surrounding those and other charges were not immediately known.

Also in Bergen, in March 2007, he was charged with narcotics offenses and served more than a year in jail. In June 2000, he was charged with first-degree criminal sexual contact. He eventually pleaded guilty to a fourth-degree charge, according to an account published in The Record of Hackensack at the time.

Staff writers Paul Milo contributed to this report.