Jon Hand, and David Riley

Rochester

At least one person took mobile phone footage of Rochester police Tasing a man who died shortly after the altercation, a city councilman and the president of the police officers union said Monday.

Police Chief Michael Ciminelli on Monday identified the officer who fired his Taser as Officer Thomas Frye, who has served with the Rochester Police Department for eight years. Ciminelli also expressed his condolences to the family of the man who died. Police confirmed he was Richard Gregory Davis, 50.

While Davis' family and local clergy are calling for a deeper inquiry into the actions of the officers, a frequent critic of the department is coming to its defense.

"From what I've been told by a person who claims to have witnessed what happened, it sounded to me the exact same way the mayor and the police chief say it happened," said City Councilman Adam McFadden, who said the officer showed restraint and followed the department's general orders by using non-lethal means instead of his firearm.

McFadden, chair of the council's public safety committee, has often been a critic of the Police Department and its relationship with the community.

"The interesting thing about him being Tasered — in all of my time being on council, every time we have a police shooting, the first thing people say is 'Why couldn't they have Tasered the person?' So in this case they Tasered the guy and he succumbed to some issues, but having someone being Tasered as opposed to being shot is the direction I think most people would like to see our Police Department going in."

Pending an investigation of the incident, the department has placed Frye on administrative duty, which is standard procedure, Ciminelli said.

Ciminelli also confirmed Monday that police recovered a mobile phone video from a witness and some surveillance footage that show at least part of the incident. He asked anyone else with video or who witnessed the incident to contact the police and said the department will consult with the District Attorney's Office about how to handle requests to release the footage.

A police and witness account of the event are as follows:

About 9 a.m. Sunday, police responded to Tremont Street after receiving reports that Davis "was driving wildly" and crashed his red pickup truck into another vehicle and Calvary Spiritual Church then fled on foot.

After police and firefighters arrived, Davis allegedly returned and, disobeying police orders, got back in his truck. He proceeded to crash into a street sign, a fence and a house, where he knocked over a gas meter.

He then locked himself in the cab as officers shouted for him to come out with his hands up. Instead, Davis waited about five minutes, then came out charging at the police officers with fists clenched. One of the officers on the scene Tased him. Davis received medical attention at the scene and died later at Strong Memorial Hospital.

Family members said Sunday that Davis was a father of six and grandfather of 11.

Davis' brother, Michael Davis Sr., said his brother served in the Marines in Beirut, Lebanon, in the 1980s, and was a grandfather who had been living in Buffalo but recently returned to Rochester. He weighed about 300 pounds and had a breathing problem, his brother said.

Michael Davis acknowledged on Monday that Mayor Lovely Warren and McFadden had attempted to contact him, but disagreed with McFadden's assessment that officers showed restraint.

"They Tased him in the rain, it was raining when this happened," Michael Davis said. "He was just basically fried."

Officer Dan Carlson, a master Taser instructor for the Police Department, said at the Monday news conference that using a Taser in the rain should not harm the person shocked. Nor would being overweight alone make someone at greater risk of harm from being Tased, he said.

Ciminelli said the Police Department also hopes to speak directly with Davis' family.

"My message to them is, as I said, that they have our prayers and our sympathy and our thoughts that this occurred, that I can assure them that we will do a full, fair and thorough investigation to determine the facts, and we will hold ourselves accountable for what we did," Ciminelli said.

Roughly 50 family members, neighbors and friends gathered around a makeshift memorial at the scene on Monday evening, planning to head to City Hall and leave candles — "to remind the mayor and police chief to do the right thing by this," said Davis' son, 27-year-old Shamell Davis.

"This is an actual life. It's not just another case," he said, adding that the family has heard differing accounts from neighbors about what happened. "You have people that love him, as you can see. Nobody is perfect. We all have our faults. We just want to know what really happened."

The chief referred questions about the cause of Davis' death to the Monroe County Medical Examiner's Office. No new details were available Monday.

The Rev. Lewis Stewart, president of the United Christian Leadership Ministry, said he plans to meet with Ciminelli on Tuesday morning and follow up with a news conference on Wednesday to include a "unified group of clergy" including the Faith Community Alliance, United Christian Leadership Ministry, Baptist Minsters Alliance and the Greater Rochester Community of Churches.

Those same groups met with the media Monday night.

"We want peace while justice is being pursued," said Minister Clifford Florence, president of the Faith Community Alliance. Flanked by clergy for the other organizations, Florence called for transparency and community dialogue from the city, an independent state and federal investigation, citizen review and calm as well as prayer as the process plays out. The area has seen two officer-involved deaths in two days, involving a white officer and black man in the city, and a black officer and white man in Greece.

"Any time a life is lost it affects all of us," Florence said. "The life in Greece is precious. The life in Rochester is precious. ... In God's sight, all life is precious."

Local clergy were still are piecing together details of Greece shooting. Earlier in the day, Stewart said of Davis: "What we're concerned about is that there has been a death, and we feel that death was needless, and that it did not have to happen. We're raising some genuine issues and some general questions that we expect to be answered."

"I think one of the things is the lethal use of the Taser — there needs to be more protocols in that and we want to know exactly what they are."

The department's written policy and standard operating procedure covers the use of Tasers including under which circumstances they can be used. Deployment rules indicate officers should use verbal commands first; that Tasers should not be used on pregnant women, on people who could fall from a height, or who are operating machinery, to name a few.

Ciminelli said police plan to release more details shortly on the number of times Davis was Tased, how often the department uses Tasers in general and what its policies and procedures are.

Carlson, the Taser instructor, said that officers go through eight hours of training and occasional recertifications in order to carry the weapon, and they also must experience being shocked by a Taser firsthand. Roughly half the department's patrol division carries Tasers, or about 190 certified officers.

Rochester police typically reserve the use of Tasers for situations in which a person is actively fighting or attacking someone, or is closing in on officers aggressively, Carlson said. Police consider using the weapons to be in the same class as kicking, punching or striking someone with a baton, he said.

Once a Taser is deployed, police officers are trained to leave it up to medical personnel to remove the Taser's hooks or treat a person's wounds, Carlson said.

McFadden and Mike Mazzeo, president of the police officers union, the Locust Club, said they were told that video footage was taken of the event and turned over to police.

"To me it went exactly textbook. His death is unfortunate, but I think that was brought about by his actions, not by our officers' actions," said Mazzeo, who said the event was witnessed by several officers, firefighters and neighbors.

Ciminelli identified other officers at the scene as Officers Michele Brown, David Pearson, Shawn Rice, John Woods and Sgt. Steven Swetman.

Frye, who fired his Taser, and Swetman are members of the Emotionally Disturbed Person Response Team, but were not called to the scene for that reason, Ciminelli said. Officers originally responded to a report of a hit-and-run crash.

McFadden joined Warren in asking the community to be patient as police conduct an investigation, and predicted a rapid investigation because of the video footage and the high number of witnesses.

"From what I can tell the guy did charge at officers and they decided to Tase him and they were in their rights and their training to do so," McFadden said. "It's unfortunate that he died, because that's the last thing you want to happen, but at the same time we have to get to the point that when the police tell us to do something, whether it's put our hands behind our back or get down, just do it. We have to stop putting police in the position where they have to make a split-second decision about their safety versus yours.

"I don't want to sound as if I'm happy about someone being Tased, they (family members) are rightfully upset. No one wants to lose a loved one ,and hopefully there will be an explanation for them about why it happened.

"But at the end of the day, they used the Taser versus a gun, I see that as progress."

Includes reporting by staff writer Brian Sharp.

JHAND@DemocratandChronicle.com

DRILEY@DemocratandChronicle.com