A Valencia County sheriff's deputy ended up shooting a man he was doing a welfare check on, investigators say.It occurred around 2:30 p.m. Wednesday off South Hazel Street in Los Chavez. Los Chavez is about 5 miles south of Los Lunas.The man agreed to come outside, but something happened, and according to state police, the deputy opened fire. State police said the sequence of events is still under investigation.Authorities said the man, Rudy Baca, 36, was rushed to University of New Mexico Hospital. He died at the hospital.Baca’s mom, Irene, said she called the deputy because she was worried her son had been drinking. She says she was worried because he did not want to go back to jail.She says her son ran from the deputy, who deployed a Taser, and the two wrestled before Baca punched the deputy in the eye. That’s when she says things turned deadly.“I was standing there, and the cop pulls a gun out, and he tells Rudy, 'Rudy, calm down,' and he goes, 'You're not taking me ... you're not taking me back,'” she said.It's unclear how many shots were fired.Baca’s son has been involved in previous shooting with law enforcement. In 2001, he and two other men were arrested in connection to the shooting of a Valencia County deputy.The deputy survived that shooting.Court records show Baca pleaded no contest to that charge at the time.Mobile users: Tap for video

A Valencia County sheriff's deputy ended up shooting a man he was doing a welfare check on, investigators say.

It occurred around 2:30 p.m. Wednesday off South Hazel Street in Los Chavez. Los Chavez is about 5 miles south of Los Lunas.

Advertisement

The man agreed to come outside, but something happened, and according to state police, the deputy opened fire. State police said the sequence of events is still under investigation.

Authorities said the man, Rudy Baca, 36, was rushed to University of New Mexico Hospital. He died at the hospital.



Baca’s mom, Irene, said she called the deputy because she was worried her son had been drinking. She says she was worried because he did not want to go back to jail.

She says her son ran from the deputy, who deployed a Taser, and the two wrestled before Baca punched the deputy in the eye. That’s when she says things turned deadly.

“I was standing there, and the cop pulls a gun out, and he tells Rudy, 'Rudy, calm down,' and he goes, 'You're not taking me ... you're not taking me back,'” she said.

It's unclear how many shots were fired.

Baca’s son has been involved in previous shooting with law enforcement. In 2001, he and two other men were arrested in connection to the shooting of a Valencia County deputy.

The deputy survived that shooting.

Court records show Baca pleaded no contest to that charge at the time.

Mobile users: Tap for video