BYRAM - Authorities say police opened fire Wednesday afternoon on a 56-year-old Byram man after he aimed a shotgun directly at an officer outside of his home.

Just prior to 3:40 p.m., police received a 911 call from a neighbor of Ronald Neal's reporting that there had been audible gun shots and possibly a person barricaded inside of the Laurel Trail home, the Sussex County Prosecutor's Office said in a news release Thursday afternoon.

When police arrived at the home, Neal, who was armed with a pistol and shotgun, came outside and "repeatedly told the officers to shoot him," the prosecutor's office said.

During the confrontation with officers, Neal discarded the handgun, which was unloaded, but raised the loaded shotgun and pointed it directly at one of the officers, prompting one of the other officers at the scene to shoot one round at the 56-year-old, the prosecutor's office said.

Neal was struck in the torso by the bullet and taken by ambulance to Hackettstown Hospital, where he was pronounced dead shortly after his arrival, the prosecutor's office said.

MORE:

6 people died in encounters with police this year

The officers involved in the shooting were also transported to the hospital to be treated for trauma, the prosecutor's office said.

The Sussex County Prosecutor's Office is serving as the lead agency on the investigation, but is being assisted by New Jersey State Police, Sussex County First Assistant Prosecutor Greg Mueller said.

Mueller said he anticipates that the investigation will be substantially complete within the next few days, at which point the names of the officers will be released. The officers involved and Neal were all white, he said.

"It was a traumatic event for the officer involved," Mueller said.

Neal lived in the home with his wife, who wasn't home at the time of the incident, Mueller said.

Mueller said he's been with the prosecutor's office for 10 years, and there hasn't been a police-involved shooting in that time. He said he believes the county has gone considerably longer without one.

Michael Rathbun, an assistant operations manager at the Morris County Municipal Utilities Authority, worked with Neal about a year ago at the county's Mount Olive transfer station and said news of his death left his former co-workers surprised.

"At work this morning, we were all really shocked when we found out. He was always joking with the guys and seemed like a great guy," said Rathbun. "There was one time I brought my kids into work on a Saturday and he gave them his lunch.

Neal was a mechanic for J.P. Mascaro & Sons, the waste management company that disposes of trash in Morris County, but wound up leaving work due to an injury, Rathbun said.

Theodore Tuerk, a representative for J.P. Mascaro & Sons, confirmed that Neal was an employee with the company for a year, but declined to offer further comment about him.

"He was a great guy - always willing to give you the shirt off his back. It's just a complete shock that he freaked out or whatever happened," Rathbun said.

Although Rathbun said he didn't know specifics, he was under the impression there "must have been some underlying issues" because "for some reason his kids hadn't been talking to him for the last couple of years."

A "For Sale" sign was posted on the lawn of the house that Neal and his wife had been renting from homeowner John Garrity in the Cranberry Lake section of Byram for the last two years.

A man who answered the phone numbered listed on the sign said he was planning to show the house "next weekend" and on Thursday morning a contractor was at the home fixing damage apparently cause to a window and aluminum overhang during the incident.

Mueller said the home had been processed by the New Jersey State Police Crime Scene North Unit Wednesday night and early Thursday morning, and was released -- meaning the home's owner was free to re-enter the home.

One of Neal's neighbors, Sharleen Rupp, described him as "a nice guy," but said he "seemed troubled" and had been out of work recently.

Neal, she said, "would always help with lawn care and snow removal."

She added that both Neal and his wife "would do anything for you - they would offer before you asked them."

Mueller has said authorities are notifying the state Attorney General's Office of the shooting.

Since police opened fire on Neal, the prosecutor's office is required to conduct an investigation to determine whether the officer acted properly and if the use of deadly force was justified. Afterwards, the findings are forwarded to the state Attorney General for a final review.

PBA Local 138 President Dan DeWald, an officer at the Byram Township Police Department, has not yet returned a phone call seeking comment on the shooting.

Kimberly Redmond may be reached at kredmond@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @kr0618. Find NJ.com on Facebook.