UPDATE (11/23 at 3 p.m.):

A grand jury has decided the shooting of Christie Cathers by a Monongalia County deputy was a justifiable shooting, according to Monongalia County Sheriff Al Kisner.

The grand jury heard the evidence and testimony from the prosecutor’s office and returned a no true bill, which means there was no probable cause to decide that a crime had been committed by the deputies involved in the shooting.

Kisner said deputies were originally called in response to Cathers brandishing a knife and attempting to force a teenage boy into her car. She was also involved in multiple road rage incidents earlier in the day, he said.

A deputy was attempting to pursue Cathers when she stopped the vehicle. According to Kisner, two backup deputies then walked up to her car, and she swerved, lunging her car at him. The deputy ended up on the hood of her car and had to push himself off, Kisner said.

An extended chase followed, Kisner said, and Cathers turned around on Finch Road driving her car toward the deputy pursuing her, who was out of his car at the time. Kisner said the deputy was lucky enough to get back in the jeep before she hit him.

Although the criminal investigation is now complete, Kisner admitted there’s always a possibility Cathers’ family could file a civil lawsuit.

“In situations like this, to family members, it doesn’t matter what an investigation showed or a grand jury decided,” said Kisner. “They may file suit against the agency in any event, no matter the outcome. Sometimes that happens, but we have not been served with any type of civil suit at this point.”

UPDATE (7/24 at 11:15 a.m.):

The Monongalia County Sheriff’s Office Detective Division has completed an administrative review concerning the officer involved shooting on June 5 that killed Christie Cathers, 45, of Morgantown.

According to Sheriff Al Kisner, the deputies involved in the case did not violate any departmental policy or procedure concerning this incident. Therefore, they will be returned to duty Sunday.

Kisner also said they will not be releasing the names of the deputies involved due to safety concerns for them and their family after social media posts and other veiled threats were directed toward these deputies.

According to a press release from the sheriff’s office, “An administrative review is conducted for the exclusive purpose of determining if a deputy violated any portion of the Monongalia County Sheriff’s Office policies or procedures manual during the handling of various types of calls for service.”

The press release also says, “Additionally, an administrative review only determines if administrative sanctions should be taken against a deputy that is found to have violated departmental policy or procedure. This is not a criminal investigation.”

UPDATE (6/8 at 9:30 a.m.):

The Monongalia County Sheriff’s Office has released the name of the woman who died in the police-involved shooting incident Friday on Finch/Snider Run Road.

Christie Cathers, 45, of Morgantown, was shot and killed by a sheriff’s deputy after deputies said she attempted to run over a deputy and hit a deputy’s car.

UPDATE:

Monongalia County Sheriff Al Kisner has placed two sheriff deputies on administrative leave with pay, following an incident where a woman suspect was shot and killed after a vehicle pursuit on Friday.

Kisner said this is standard policy anytime there’s a shooting involving officers.

Kisner said the identity of the woman will be released Monday morning.

ORIGINAL:

The Monongalia County Sheriff’s Office is investigating an incident where one person was shot, and killed by a sheriff’s deputy on Friday.

It happened just after 3 p.m. Sheriff’s deputies were dispatched to a brandishing call involving a knife off Harner Run Road, according to a press release.

After arriving on scene, the suspect attempted to run over a sheriff deputy and fled the scene. A chase led sheriff deputies and the suspect onto Finch/Snider Run Road, and authorities attempted to get the suspect stopped.

The suspect drove their vehicle at a sheriff deputy striking his cruiser. A sheriff deputy shot, and struck the suspect in their vehicle, causing it to stop.

The suspect was pronounced dead on scene.

The suspect’s name is not being released, pending family notification.

Further information will be released at a later date.