Advertisement Man who shot Watsonville police officer identified Share Copy Link Copy

A man who shot an on-duty police officer in Watsonville used an ambush-style attack before he died with a shotgun still clutched in his hand and bag full of ammunition by his side, investigators said.Police Chief Manny Solano held a press conference Monday and identified the gunman killed by police as Alejandro Campos Fernandez, 45, of Watsonville.The injured Watsonville Police Department officer suffered a gunshot in his upper torso. The bullet lodged in his body armor vest, which prevented the officer's injury from being much worse, investigators said. He was released from a hospital and is expected to recover.VIDEO: Police describe chaotic incident with FernandezThe incident began at 6 p.m. Saturday, when six officers staked out Fernandez's house.Fernandez was a wanted felon and gang member who had been robbing homeless people at gunpoint in recent weeks, Lt. Saul Gonzales said.Police waited for Fernandez to leave his West Front Street house, and when he did, he ran down into the Pajaro River levee, Gonzales said. Two officers followed the fleeing man into the levee's high brush, near San Juan Road and Porter Drive."The levee is rough terrain and dangerous," Gonzales said.Fernandez crouched down in the brush, aimed a shotgun back at the officers chasing him, and fired."He was kneeling and had a shotgun pointed at the officers," Gonzales said.The injured officer yelled "he has a gun" to warn others, and turned his back for cover because his service weapon was still in its holster, investigators said. PHOTOS: Watsonville man killed after shooting officerAs soon as the officer was shot, the injured officer and his fellow officer opened fire, killing Fernandez. The gun battle happened 25 feet apart.Fernandez died in the dried-out levee. Officers then took cover behind an oak tree, unsure if the man was dead. Backup was called in from the California Highway Patrol, Capitola police, Santa Cruz County Sheriff's Office, and the Monterey County Sheriff's Office. Chief Solano thanked the community for showing support, as well as 911 dispatchers who were on duty Saturday night. Solano said, "Dispatchers are not seen, but heard. They did an incredible job handling this chaos over the radio."Solano said the officer-involved shooting will be reviewed with a "timely, thorough, and accurate investigation, with the rights of all of those affected respected."He added, "It's a large and complex crime scene." The two officers who opened fire on Fernandez were placed on routine paid administrative leave. Their names are not being released because of safety concerns, partially because Fernandez was a member of a local gang, Solano said.When officers later searched the felon's house, they found multiple firearms. Watsonville has not had an officer-involved shooting since 2011, the chief said. This breaking news story will be updated.