Sarah Jarvis

The Arizona Republic | azcentral.com

Investigators believe the man killed Monday night in a shooting with Maricopa County sheriff's deputies was intent on dying at the hands of a law-enforcement officer, according to a sheriff's spokesman.

Richard Warolf, 69, was killed by a sheriff's deputy after a three-hour standoff in front of his home in Sun City after Warolf raised a gun and pointed it at a deputy, said Deputy Joaquin Enriquez, a sheriff's spokesman.

Warolf's wife called 911 about 4 p.m. Monday and told operators her husband was drinking and depressed at their home near 99th Avenue and Bell Road. She said Warolf had a semiautomatic handgun and was talking about committing "suicide by cop," a situation in which a person aggressively brandishes a weapon in front of an officer so the officer responds with lethal force, Enriquez said.

Warolf was also texting another family member about his intention during this time, Enriquez said. Warolf's wife left the house for a nearby community center, where she called for help, Enriquez said.

A Maricopa County SWAT team came to Warolf's residence and tried to communicate with him. Enriquez said Warolf would appear in the doorway and venture out onto his porch over the course of three hours. Warolf took time during the standoff to feed some birds that had gathered near his door, Enriquez said.

Deputies used a percussive device to make a loud noise and distract Warolf. When he turned to his side to look at the device, deputies rushed at him from the other side. Warolf pulled out his own gun and pointed it at the deputies before they could apprehend him, so one of the deputies fired at Warolf, Enriquez said.

A physician working with the Sheriff's Office immediately worked to try and save Warolf's life, he said.

Detectives from multiple bureaus are investigating the circumstances of the shooting, as is protocol with every deputy-involved shooting, Enriquez said.

Neighbors in the community, many of whom have lived in their homes for decades, said Warolf kept to himself but they were grateful for the way deputies handled the situation.

"It was a areal tragedy, but the blessing was that he didn't kill anybody (else)," said Elizabeth Clough