The Springfield police chief said Monday that officers acted correctly when they ceased a pursuit near downtown before the fleeing driver crashed on Clifton Avenue, killing his passenger.

Clarissa Eileen Smith, 21, of Springfield, died at the scene of the crash on Clifton Avenue near East Southern Avenue early Sunday morning.

The driver, Nicholas Cochran, 24, of Springfield, was injured in the crash.

Springfield Police Chief Stephen Moody said alcohol could be a factor in the crash, but the division is waiting for lab results to confirm.

No charges have been filed, but Moody said the case will likely be presented to a grand jury.

Officer Matthew Parr first started following the car on the Spring Street overpass when he allegedly clocked Cochran heading north at 60 mph, Moody said.

Parr, who was heading south, turned around and found the driver pulling into Speedway, 1147 N. Limestone St.

The officer turned on his lights and attempted to stop the car but police said Cochran fled south on Limestone Street.

Parr pursued the car, Moody said, until Cochran allegedly approached speeds of 80 mph near North Street. The pursuit ended there, the chief said.

Another cruiser was near Limestone Street and Selma Road and turned on its lights and sirens to warn other drivers, Moody said.

When Cochran saw the cruiser, police said he turned east on Selma Road and then south on Clifton Avenue.

The second cruiser didn’t follow the car. A third cruiser later found the 2002 gold Chevy Impala rolled over after it appeared to have struck two other cars parked on the street.

Springfield officers go through extensive training on pursuits, Moody said, and Parr made the right decision Sunday when he ended the pursuit.

“It ultimately comes down to the safety of the motoring public and the community,” Moody said.

Cochran had a suspended license and an arrest warrant was issued for him in March, according to court records.

“It could have been adverted by him turning the car off at the gas pumps, getting two tickets and the officer would have ensured they would have gotten a ride,” Moody said.

Rebecca Fent is Smith’s mother and said she never could find words for people who had lost their children.

“Now I’m in that situation,” the Springfield woman said. “I don’t know how anybody’s ever done this. Even though she was 21 years old, she was my baby.”

Smith had two children — Khloe Money, 3, and Nicholas Cochran Jr., 1.

Fent spoke to her daughter daily.

“Clarissa was my best friend,” Fent said. “She wasn’t only my daughter. She was my best friend.”

Tierra Day went to Springfield High with Smith and said she had a bubbly personality and big a heart.

“She’s definitely going to be missed … She was funny. Always funny and she always had a smile on her face,” Day said.

Day organized a vigil for Smith on Sunday evening.

“It was heartbreaking,” Day said.

The family has scheduled a viewing and funeral for Smith from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Thursday at Richards, Raff and Dunbar Memorial Home, 838 E High St.