BRONX, N.Y. (WABC) -- Officers responding to a call of a domestic dispute in the Bronx fatally shot an armed suspect Wednesday morning, according to authorities.

The incident happened around 8 a.m. inside an apartment on Valentine Avenue in the Tremont section.

The suspect's former girlfriend was wounded, and the NYPD is now trying to determine who shot her.

Officials are looking into the possibility that she was grazed by a bullet fired by an NYPD officer.

Ballistics tests will be conducted. The two responding officers fired about 25 shots. EMS arrived and transported the suspect to St. Barnabas Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Authorities say 19-year-old Isiah Hampton of the Bronx was attacking his ex-girlfriend with a handgun when police arrived, responding to a 911 call of a man holding a woman at gunpoint.

Hampton has five prior arrests and was parole on a robbery conviction last year. He was to be on parole until 2018.

When officers arrived, they reportedly observed him pacing back and forth in a room and ordered him to come out to the front door of the apartment.

He refused, instead entering the bedroom and closed the door behind him. The officers then heard screams for help coming from a woman inside the bedroom.

An NYPD sergeant and an officer heard the woman yelling "Get in here. He is going to kill me!". The sergeant kicked open the door, and the two found Hampton holding the woman in a chokehold with a gun to her head, police say.

According to investigators, the woman broke free and Hampton turned and pointed his weapon at the officers. Both fired, striking him multiple times.

A .38 caliber Taurus handgun was recovered from the apartment.

The sergeant, a patrol supervisor, is a 10 year NYPD veteran. The officer has been with the NYPD for 13 years and is normally assigned as the sergeant's driver.

The officers were transported to Jacobi Hospital to be treated for trauma.

The woman was also transported to St. Barnabas Hospital to be treated for a graze wound to the shoulder and bruises to her face.