Shot dead: Homeless Fritz Severe, 46, was killed in Gibson Park, Miami, by police officers who were called to reports of a violent disturbance

Dozens of children attending a summer camp were left traumatized after watching a police officer shoot dead a homeless man in the middle of a Miami park.

Fritz Severe was shot in Gibson Park, in the Overtown area, on Thursday morning in front of as many as 60 witnesses - including children.

The officer, named as Antonio Torres, who has been in the force for 20 years, is said to have discharged his weapon after Mr Severe refused to drop his weapon.

But when Miami Police Chief Rodolfo Llanes was pushed for details later, he said he could not confirm whether the pipe was brandished during the confrontation.

Officers were called to the popular park, which includes a swimming pool and tennis courts, to reports of a violent disturbance, but it is not clear what the nature of the disturbance was.

At 10am, there was some sort of confrontation, and Mr Severe was shot.

Witness Nichelle Miller told CBS Miami, said: 'I’m like, "Oh my god, he just shot this damn man five times! Five times, really? That’s ridiculous".'

Some reports suggest there may have been as many as 50 children who saw the shooting, who are understood to have been at a summer camp.

'The kids were hysterical. They didn't know what was happening. They just ran,' witness Clarence Bonner told WSVN,

The homeless 46-year-old died shortly after arriving at hospital, becoming another name on the growing list of people killed by police officers in the U.S. this year.

That list has just surpassed the 500 mark, according to The Guardian.

Traumatized: The fatal shooting, one of two at the hands of a police officer in Florida yesterday, was witnessed by as many as 50 children, who were attending a summer school in the popular park

Mr Severe's death was also not the only fatal police shooting in Florida on Thursday.

The Miami Herald reports a suspect in a bank robbery was shot and killed in Pompano Beach, a 40 minute drive north of Gibson Park.

Llanes said the Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting.

'I understand the anxiety that's been created across the country from police-citizen interactions, but I would ask that everyone wait for the facts of the case and not make up your own story,' Llanes told reporters. 'We will know what the facts of the case are.'