Jesse Houpt was ordered to report to the Lincoln County jail today.

The Nebraska Court of Appeals issued the order Wednesday after the Nebraska Supreme Court refused to review a petition from Houpt Friday.

All of Houpt's efforts to appeal his sentence have been exhausted, said Robert Lindemeier Houpt's attorney.

The former North Platte Police officer will now have to report to jail no later than 7 p.m. today to start his sentence of 90 days.

Houpt was found guilty May 1, 2003, on two counts of felony motor vehicle homicide, in connection with the April 16, 2002, deaths of fellow officers Ross Hilsman, 23, and Zachary Peters, 26, in a high-speed, one-car rollover east of North Platte on Interstate 80.

Houpt, Hilsman, Peters and Sgt. Steve Reeves had been out that night, off-duty, cruising the canyons southeast of North Platte, and had consumed almost two cases of beer prior to the accident.

Houpt was sentenced to 180 days in jail, the first 90 days to be served immediately, and the remainder was placed at the end of the four years of supervised probation.

After serving 90 days in jail, Houpt will have to wear an electronic monitor for 120 days.

Houpt was also ordered to get counseling for alcohol abuse, participate in mediation with the families of the victims, and complete 200 hours of community service during four years of probation. If he fails to complete the four years of probation satisfactorily, he will have to serve the remaining 90 days in jail.

Houpt filed an appeal June 2, 2003, two days after being sentenced.

His defense attorney, Robert Lindemeier, said Houpt should get a new trial because the trial judge - District Judge John Murphy - erred in allowing testimony regarding Houpt's blood alcohol level after the accident.

The State Court of Appeals rejected Houpt's appeal stating, "We conclude that the district court did not err in admitting the results of Houpt's blood test into evidence or in denying his motion - to suppress."

The State Court of Appeal made their decision June 1.

After waiting 28 days, Houpt petitioned the State Supreme Court to review the State Court of Appeals decision.

Houpt will apply for work release as soon as he checks into the Lincoln County Jail.