Elliott Jones

elliott.jones@tcpalm.com

Editor's note: This story originally published June 17, 2015.

GIFFORD — A 41-year-old Gifford man, who died after a 911 caller said he was “tripping” and “acting crazy” early Tuesday, was well known to Indian River County Sheriff’s deputies.

Sheriff Deryl Loar said at a news conference that deputies had been to Jermaine Benjamin’s home, in the 4300 block of 28th Avenue, 56 times in the past decade. Records indicate a variety of accusations over the years, including drug use and assaults. He had 18 felony criminal convictions.

Now deputies are looking into the possibility Benjamin’s death could have been drug-related. He developed undetermined medical problems after he was handcuffed, Loar said.

Benjamin’s cause of death isn’t known; an autopsy and toxicology tests, which can take months, will determine that, officials said.

Benjamin’s death occurred after 3:46 a.m. when deputies responded to a 911 disturbance call from someone in a crowd at a residence in the 4300 block of 35th Avenue, an address that Loar said deputies had been to 70 times in nine years. The caller said a “man is out here tripping. ... He (is) acting crazy.”

After deputies intervened and handcuffed Benjamin in the yard, he went into what deputies described as medical distress. A deputy performed chest compressions. Benjamin was declared dead at 4:24 a.m. at Indian River Medical Center.

His mother, Brenda Bartee, of West Palm Beach, declined to comment except to say she is waiting to see the autopsy.

While Loar said Benjamin wasn’t violent when deputies arrived, the Sheriff’s report said the man was “disoriented, aggressive and combative.”

Bystander Kizzi Hogan questioned how the deputies handled the man she said was known to have heart problems.

“People (bystanders) were yelling that as they loaded him into an ambulance,” she said.

Before that, according to Hogan, deputies had Benjamin on the ground, a knee on his back and a hand on his neck. Then they turned him over and began doing chest compressions. Loar said deputies were restraining Benjamin and handcuffing him.

Afterward, Hogan said it appeared to her that a deputy was kneeling and praying as Benjamin was loaded into the ambulance for transport.

In Loar’s estimation, “(The deputies) did an excellent job of handling Benjamin. Deputies arrived within four minutes of the 911 call.”

The Sheriff’s Office came under fire May 29 for the handling of another man in custody. County jail inmate Mitchell Brad Martinez, 37, was discovered unconscious in a Sheriff’s Office transport van after an 8-minute drive from the courthouse to the jail. He later died. Martinez was in a secluded section of the van where neither inmates nor deputies had access to him. State officials are awaiting toxicology tests before declaring a cause of death, which can take months. “The Sheriff’s Office had nothing to do with Martinez’s death, ” spokesman Eric Flowers said earlier this month.

Sheriff’s investigators are talking to witnesses and gathering evidence in the Benjamin case.

“Recently we have seen an increase in the number of drug-related calls for service, ” Loar said. “The potency and quantity of street drugs is often unknown to the user until it is too late. We have had too many young people lose their lives to drugs.”

During 2014, there were 19 drug intoxication deaths in Indian River County. There’s been 10 so far this year, according to Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Roger Mittleman’s office in Fort Pierce. He handles autopsies for Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin and Okeechobee counties.

Benjamin has had three prison stints for several convictions in Indian River, according to the Department of Corrections. The lengthiest, 13 years, followed his convictions in 1992 for arson, possession of cocaine and battery on a law enforcement officer. He’s also been convicted three times for selling or purchasing cocaine, state records show.

Anyone with information or tips on drug-related incidents in Indian River County are encouraged to contact Treasure Coast Crime Stoppers at 800-273-8477. Callers may remain anonymous and could be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000.