A burglary suspect died Monday in a head-on crash on Interstate 35 near Southeast 15th Street, officials confirmed.Video: Man wanted in connection with burglaries dies in head-on I-35 crashOfficers in an undercover vehicle followed Ryan Otto Whitworth, 36, from Midwest City west on Interstate 40 when they called a marked police unit to pull him over, according to a news release. Police were following Whitworth because he was believed to be connected with multiple burglaries in the Oklahoma City area.Whitworth was known to have active arrest warrants, and his vehicle's tag was reported stolen, according to the release.Officers pulled over Whitworth on the south side of I-40 at the 1700 block of the westbound lane, officials said. When police approached the vehicle, Whitworth sped off, driving across the median and into the eastbound I-40 traffic going westbound.Officers did not chase or engage in a pursuit, according a a statement.Whitworth then turned around into north I-35 traffic, traveling south, and exited onto the northbound on-ramp at Southeast 15th Street, officials said. He collided head-on with a semi-truck and was pronounced dead at the scene.Whitworth was believed to be connected with dozens of burglaries in the area, police said.

A burglary suspect died Monday in a head-on crash on Interstate 35 near Southeast 15th Street, officials confirmed.

Video: Man wanted in connection with burglaries dies in head-on I-35 crash

Advertisement

Officers in an undercover vehicle followed Ryan Otto Whitworth, 36, from Midwest City west on Interstate 40 when they called a marked police unit to pull him over, according to a news release. Police were following Whitworth because he was believed to be connected with multiple burglaries in the Oklahoma City area.

Whitworth was known to have active arrest warrants, and his vehicle's tag was reported stolen, according to the release.

Officers pulled over Whitworth on the south side of I-40 at the 1700 block of the westbound lane, officials said. When police approached the vehicle, Whitworth sped off, driving across the median and into the eastbound I-40 traffic going westbound.

Officers did not chase or engage in a pursuit, according a a statement.

Whitworth then turned around into north I-35 traffic, traveling south, and exited onto the northbound on-ramp at Southeast 15th Street, officials said. He collided head-on with a semi-truck and was pronounced dead at the scene.

Whitworth was believed to be connected with dozens of burglaries in the area, police said.