TRENTON >> A city resident who called police for help and subsequently was allegedly put into a coma by responding officers has died.

Kevin Higgenbotham, 47, died last Sunday following the incident on June 15, where he initially called 9-1-1 to report a trespasser at his home on the 200 block of Bellevue Avenue.

Forty minutes later, Higgenbotham was transported to Capital Health Regional Medical Center where went into cardiac arrest. The medical emergency left him in a coma that the-then 46-year-old never recovered from.

His attorney, Stanley King, of Woodbury-based King & King, has consistently alleged that police repeatedly beat Higgenbotham with batons and pepper strayed him, causing the resident to remain in his incapacitated state before his death.

“The force that the officers on the scene used was excessive and at a minimum was a contributing factor to his death, and we believe it may have well been the primary contributing factor,” King said Friday, noting his client’s condition continued to worsen after the June incident. “Obviously, it is a brain-related injury. He could never improve and his condition continually worsened for the last nine months.”

Police Director Ernest Parrey Jr. immediately contacted the Mercer County Prosecutor’s Office and city police’s internal affairs unit following the incident to be “transparent,” Lt. Stephen Varn said two days after the situation.

Varn said Friday that an investigation is being conducted by the Mercer County Homicide Task Force. He forwarded any further comments to the prosecutor’s office.

A spokeswoman with the Mercer County Prosecutor’s Office said Friday in a statement that the agency is “concluding the investigation.”

“An autopsy was conducted this week,” spokeswoman Casey DeBlasio said in an email. “The cause and manner of death are pending further investigation. The medical examiner did not observe any skull fractures or other signs that indicate any physical abuse by the police or the hospital.”

According to the police’s account of the events that transpired, officers claim Higgenbotham was under the influence of drugs and that he assaulted his family member when they arrived that morning. Higgenbotham was placed in a paddy wagon with his hands cuffed behind his back. Police said when Higgenbotham was in the vehicle, he became combative and started kicking the windows. The authorities claim when Higgenbotham was restrained, he went into cardiac arrest at the hospital.

Adding to the intrigue of the case, King retained a prominent medical examiner, who performed an autopsy on Higgenbotham on Friday for the family.

The medical examiner, Dr. Michael Baden, is the host of HBO’s “Autopsy.” The former New York City chief medical examiner also conducted an autopsy for Michael Brown, the teenager shot to death by an officer in Ferguson, Mo. that led to widespread riots and national headlines on excessive police force.

Baden, who also touts a resume on his website of working investigations for O.J. Simpson, Jayson Williams, Kobe Bryant and Robert Blake, did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment.

“He will be giving us his findings shortly,” King said of Baden’s autopsy of Higgenbotham.

King said prosecutors have not released any information either to him or Higgenbotham’s family.

“Their investigation should be a lot different from their initial narrative that was reported in the paper,” he said. “I’m sure the investigation should speak to the level of force that their officers used and hopefully there will be an agreement that the level of force was excessive and unnecessary.”

King previously explained that Higgenbotham suffered from bipolar disorder and was experiencing an episode the morning he called police. The attorney said the trespasser Higgenbotham reported to police was his cousin, who lived with the family at the Bellevue Avenue home.

King believes no actions have been taken against the responding officers.

“If in fact they would have, we would have heard,” King said. “At this point, I don’t think anything has been done to any of the officers involved to the best of my knowledge.”

Higgenbotham, however, was charged with simple assault, criminal mischief, improper behavior and resisting arrest.

King has filed a intent to sue, but has yet to officially fine a civil complaint.

“Everyone can see what’s inevitable in light of his death,” the attorney said, declining to comment if he will file a lawsuit.

Higgenbotham, a lifelong resident and Trenton Central High School graduate, was described Friday by his daughter as an “overall awesome person” and a “great father.”

“He did everything he could do for anybody,” Shanae Higgenbotham said. “I don’t even know how I’m going to move on.”

Shanae said her dad taught her to be a great person and to always believe in God.

“Everybody loved him,” she said, noting he was known for dressing well and riding his motorcycles. “I still can’t believe this happened to him. I don’t understand why it happened. It shouldn’t have happened.”

Higgenbotham’s mother, Adrea Higgenbotham, said her son was a loving person who was very active.

She feels there is lying surrounding the circumstances of her son’s arrest.

“The police are not telling the truth about nothing,” the mother said. “Everything will come to a head if God has his way.”