Stephanie Weldy

sweldy@visaliatimesdelta.com

A family says they want answers after a man was shot and killed by at least one detective Tuesday.

A day after the fatal shooting in a parking lot along Mooney Boulevard, a makeshift memorial was assembled at the site where the man's lifeless body had laid.

Flames danced along the wicks of select candles and a sculpted angel perched in the shade of a cloth flower bouquet.

A Styrofoam sign, resting against a tattered folding chair, was scrawled with the words: "RIP Chris."

Rolando DeLeon, 22, of Visalia, claims the man who died was his 28-year-old brother Christopher DeLeon.

Through Facebook, the family learned of a fatal shooting that happened along Mooney Boulevard during afternoon hours, Rolando DeLeon said.

But they didn't know the incident involved their relative until another family member told them, he said.

Christopher DeLeon, lived in Visalia, Rolando DeLeon said. And he was often in the area where the incident occurred because he enjoyed gambling at a site nearby with casino games, he said.

Rolando DeLeon said he had last seen his brother the day before the incident. He was a good man, he said.

"He was a good person," Rolando DeLeon said. "He had just had a baby."

The family was told by investigating sheriff's officials that the man was shot multiple times — at least four times, he said.

The family is concerned by how officers responded, Rolando DeLeon said. They want to know why their loved one was shot so many times.

"It doesn't take more than four bullets to take someone down," he said. "They didn't have to be kill shots."

A man who claims to have witnessed what happened Tuesday, said seconds before the man was shot and killed by officers, he had shot a man in the neck with a flare gun following a verbal dispute over a bicycle.

Rolando DeLeon said he believes his brother could have used an airsoft gun he had owned.

Visalia police are investigating the assault between the man who was shot and killed and the man he'd injured seconds before the officer-involved shooting.

"We're investigating what those persons were doing at the vacant building — what led up to the altercation," said Sgt. Damon Maurice, with Visalia Police Department.

Officials with the sheriff's department are investigating the officer-involved shooting, Maurice said.

"Sheriffs are looking at the actual officer-involved shooting – how they responded and what they did…," Maurice said. "Obviously an outside agency looks at it."

The findings of sheriff's officials will be forwarded to the District Attorney's Office.

Two officers were in the parking lot adjacent to Toys R Us — shortly before noon Tuesday — investigating a string of burglaries and acts of trespassing at the vacant commercial buildings on the lot, when they heard the sound of gunfire, police said.

A man exited an atrium of the abandoned building with a weapon, police said.

The man, who police have yet to release his identity, refused to comply to officer commands and was shot by at least one officer, according to police.

He was pronounced dead by paramedics less than five minutes later, police said.

A black and orange weapon could be seen laying alongside an evidence marker, just a short distance away from the body, after the incident.

By late Wednesday morning, chain-link fencing was transported onto the lot where the shooting occurred, to be installed around the perimeter of the property.