Henry Molski, Sharon Coolidge and Amber Hunt

The Cincinnati Enquirer

CINCINNATI — A nearly 30-year veteran police officer and the suspect he was pursuing died Friday after exchanging gunfire in a residential neighborhood, authorities said.

Officer Sonny Kim, 48, had immigrated to the United States from South Korea in 1973. He was a well-respected officer who earned praise in 2012 from the U.S. Department of Justice for his service.

Initial emergency communications reports indicated that Kim, who was wearing body armor, was shot in the chest at a little before 9:30 a.m. ET.

"We lost a brother, but right now my heart is broken more for his three sons, who lost a father, and his wife, who lost a husband," Cincinnati Police Chief Jeffrey Blackwell said.

Officers could be seen embracing and consoling each other as it started to rain again before 11:30 a.m. at the shooting scene.

"It's like losing a child," police Chaplain Tyronne Patrick said. "It's hard."

Suspect Trepierre Hummons posted an omnious message as his Facebook status at 8:55 a.m.: "I love every last one of y'all to whoever has been in my life ... You're the real mvp." He also texted multiple people before the shooting indicating that he planned to commit suicide by cop, Blackwell said.

Hummons, 21, was involved in a gang, Blackwell said. His previous history also included an alleged sex offense, and his mother told police that he was having trouble with his girlfriend.

Police received call at 9:03 a.m. about a man with a gun. At 9:10 a.m., a second call came in to dispatchers. Nine minutes later, Kim responded. And seven minutes after that, at 9:26 a.m., frantic officers were hurrying to the scene to provide backup.

Hummons, who is black, and Kim died after being transported to the University of Cincinnati Medical Center.

Kim was passionate about martial arts and was a karate instructor for nearly 20 years. In a March 2014 interview with an online karate magazine, The Shotokan Way, he described the stress of his job as an officer and the importance of training.

"In the USA, most of our police tactical training deals mainly with firearm encounters," Kim told the publication. "Having an assailant with a firearm will put you under some emotional and physiological duress."

He said police trainers have a saying: "You will perform how you train."

"One must train hard and under pressure in a realistic environment," he said.

On Milwaukee's northwest side, a 25-year veteran detective from Wauwatosa, Wis., who was investigating a burglary also was shot but the 52-year-old appears to have injuries that are not life threatening, WISN-TV, Milwaukee, reported. That gunman is still at large, and it is not known if he is injured.

Through Tuesday, 56 officers have died in the line of duty, 14 from gunfire, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page, a nonprofit that keeps track of law-enforcement deaths. So far this year, line-of-duty deaths are down 14% from the same time last year, and gunfire deaths have decreased more than a third for the same period.

In Cincinnati, City Manager Harry Black said the city would honor Kim as a hero.

"This is a stark reminder that all jobs are not created equal," Black said, adding that police officers "have the courage and conviction to do what many of us might not be prepared to do — that is to sacrifice their lives if necessary."

Jen Walters and her neighbors in the diverse Madisonville area have been asked to stay inside while the investigation continues, she said. On a usual Friday, children play outside and she tends to the nine chickens she raises in her yard.

"I almost thought it was construction," Walters said. "Then I heard instant sirens."

After that, more pops, maybe 10 or 20.

"Pop, pop, pop, pop," Walters said.

Kids who had been playing outside ran into a nearby apartment complex for cover. Walters didn't need long to sense the gravity of what was happening.

"The officers who got here were crying," she said.

She's feeling tensions rise in her normally peaceful neighborhood, where she has lived with her three children since January. People at the scene are screaming at police, and Walters said she worries that the anger will continue to escalate as the day unfolds.

"They may have a right to be angry, I don't know yet," Walters said in a shaky voice. "But I hope that my neighbors and our city find out everything before reacting."

Madisonville has had its share of tragedy this year: In May, Cincinnati firefighter Daryl Gordon fell to his death in an elevator shaft while helping residents escape a large fire in an apartment complex.

The shooting of the Cincinnati officer and the spot where Gordon died are about 1.5 miles away.

Crime in Madisonville is down 25% in the past five years, the fifth safest in the city, said Matt Strauss of the Community Urban Redevelopment Corp.

"This is a very isolated incident," Strauss said. "This is very surprising."

Contributing: Dan Horn, Anne Saker, Emilie Eaton, Carrie Blackmore Smith and Fatima Hussein, The Cincinnati Enquirer