Stephanie Taylor Staff Writer

Authorities have yet to determine the cause of death of a man who wrecked his vehicle and was shot with a Taser during a police pursuit early Saturday morning.

Law enforcement officers from Jefferson County used a Taser on Zamiel Kivon Crawford after he rammed his SUV into a patrol car and struck a concrete median. He later died at DCH Regional Medical Center.

Officials said he was armed and uncooperative after the crash.

The Tuscaloosa County Metro Homicide Unit is conducting a death investigation.

Crawford, 21, led Leeds police and Jefferson County sheriff’s deputies on a pursuit that ended when he rammed a deputy's vehicle on Interstate 20/59 in Tuscaloosa County, according to a release from the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office.

The chase began in Leeds, when officers attempted to apprehend Crawford, a suspect in several robberies who had a felony warrant for armed robbery. Speeds reached between 75 and 80 miles per hour.

Jefferson County deputies joined the pursuit, which ended when Crawford used his Chevrolet Tahoe to ram a deputy vehicle near the 96 mile marker, according to the release.

“The Tahoe careened off of the patrol unit and swerved back left and struck the concrete center median wall,” Chief Deputy Randy Christian wrote in the release. “The pursuit then slowed to 20 miles per hour. The suspect vehicle collided yet another time with the patrol unit, spun out and came to rest against a median wall.”

Officers demanded that Crawford show his hands as they approached his wrecked vehicle, he said.

“The driver’s side door had to be pried open to get the offender out. Once the driver’s side door came open, personnel observed a Glock 22, .40 caliber handgun in the offender’s lap. The offender would not cooperate, was Tased once, removed from the vehicle and the fully loaded weapon was secured.”

Paramedics called to the scene took Crawford to DCH Regional Medical Center, where he later died. An autopsy will determine his cause of death.