An NYPD transit cop shot and killed a knife-wielding man who slashed the officer's neck during a bloody clash in Brooklyn Thursday, officials said.

Officer Filippo Gugliara, 24, was at the Ocean Parkway station on the Q line in Coney Island at 1:15 p.m. when he saw a white-haired man in a purple shirt fighting with a woman in her 70s at the foot of the stairs, police sources said.

Advertisement

When Gugliara intervened, the 58-year-old man ran off, police sourceAn NYPD transit cop shot and killed a knife-wielding man who slashed the officer's neck during a bloody clash in Brooklyn Thursday, officials said.

When Gugliara intervened, the 58-year-old ran off, police sources said.

Advertisement

The cop chased Tcherniak to Ocean Parkway and Seabreeze Ave. when the suspect turned and slashed at Gugliara with a five-inch Fallkniven hunting and fishing knife, cutting the cop's shoulder and neck, police said.

Gugliara pulled his gun during the scuffle and fired twice, killing the older man, officials said.

Tcherniak was found sprawled out on the sidewalk face first in a pool of his own blood — the $170 knife a few inches from his hand.

He has a prior arrest in which he threatened to cut someone's tongue out, law enforcement sources said.

Gugliara was rushed to Lutheran Medical Center for treatment of non-life-threatening injuries.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton and Mayor de Blasio were taken to the hospital to visit him.

"Thank God the officer is well," de Blasio said.

"He is an example to us all."

Advertisement

NYPD Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce said that Tcherniak attacked the senior after she interrupted a fight between himself and a nearby store owner.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 2 Police officers sad near the body of a man who was shot twice by police after allegedly stabbing a transit officer in the neck at the corner of West 1st Street and Sea Breeze Avenue Thursday, June 18th 2015 in Coney Island, Brooklyn. (Christie M Farriella for New York Daily News) (Christie M Farriella/for New York Daily News)

When the woman left the store, Tcherniak followed her and then jumped her, Boyce said.

"She was taken to the ground and suffered some bruises," Boyce said.

Bratton said that Gugliara was saved by his bullet resistant vest: the vest's shoulder strap deflected the blade before it cut into his neck, lessoning the blow.

"Our officer is very fortunate," said Bratton. "Clearly this is a life threatening situation with this individual. But for his intercession, we don't know what could have occurred."

Gugliara joined the force in 2013.

Advertisement

After the execution-style murders of Police Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos, he railed against the city on social media for what he believed was a lack of respect for cops.

"Me and my fellow cops should protest/strike," he posted on Twitter. "This city and its people clearly don't respect us. Where these people having our back? No where."

Thursday's gunplay was the second police-involved shooting in 15 hours — and the fourth in a week, officials said.

Shortly after midnight Thursday, three Staten Island cops swapped shots with a man who opened fire on the officers near Park Hill Ave., but no one was hurt.

Two groups were shooting each other when the officers rolled up to the scene, officials said.

On June 12, a plainclothes NYPD sergeant from Brooklyn shot 25-year-old Arthur Whaley after he pulled a knife on the officer, according to officials.

Advertisement

The sergeant interrupted Whaley as he and two accomplices were trying to steal the wheels off a Honda Fit in Ditmas Park around 4 a.m, police said.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 2 Suspect in robbery lies DOA after stabbing officer in neck on West 1st Street and Sea Breeze Avenue in Brooklyn. (Todd Maisel/New York Daily News) (Todd Maisel/New York Daily News)

The tire-theft trio tried to flee but crashed their car during the getaway as the cop chased after them, authorities said.

That's when Whaley climbed out through the window of his car, against the repeated orders of the sergeant, and brandished a knife at the officer.

The cop fired one shot, hitting Whaley, but the thief managed to escape to the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark, police said.

There he claimed he was shot during a robbery attempt , cops said.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Bloomfield police checked out the claim, only to later identify Whaley through a picture released by the NYPD. Whaley had already been discharged from the hospital by the time authorities returned to make the arrest.

But after five days on the lam Whaley found God. He turned himself in on Wednesday night with a local minister by his side, officials said.

Advertisement

Charges were pending against Whaley Thursday.

On Saturday, Bronx cops interrupting a shooting opened fire on a man who fired at them, but miraculously, no one was hit, officials said.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.

With Caitlin Nolan

rparascandola@nydailynews.com