The Weld County District Attorney on Thursday cleared two Greeley police officers involved in a shooting of a Greeley man who had shot his wife in the early morning hours of June 19.

Officers Oliveros and Sanchez shot at Louis Joseph Atencio, 50, in the middle of the street as he raised his gun toward them, according to the Weld District Attorney’s report on the incident. The report determined that there was no criminal wrongdoing by officers.

One officer fired five times, the other fired three; one bullet struck and killed the man, after he had shot his wife at their home earlier that morning. She survived.

The report stated toxicology reports showed Atencio had high levels of methamphetamine, heroin and oxycodone in his system at the time of the shooting.

Weld District Attorney Michael Rourke omitted the officers’ first names in the report, stating that doing so wouldn’t add anything, but it still struck a balance between the public’s right to know vs. the officers’ rights to safety and privacy.

“In this case, what it came down to, the public’s right to know outweighed any arguable potential risk or threat to the officers involved,” Rourke said, of naming the officers, though only by their last names. “If anyone really wanted to go and figure out what the officers names are, it would be easy. It’s still a matter of in today’s culture, that officers are looked upon with more scrutiny than they have been historically.

“Knowing that (they were) officer Oliveros or Sanchez, it’s clearly identifying who the officer was without adding anything. It doesn’t add anything to the report … or the conclusion that the public’s right to know slightly outweighed” the safety concerns in this case.

According to Rourke’s report, officers responded at 6:33 a.m. June 19 to a home at 601 15th Ave. Court in Greeley. The reporting party advised an injured and bleeding woman, Angelina Abeyta, 41, was at his front door.

“According to the investigation, while the victim was being treated by fire personnel, Atencio, armed with a handgun, approached the scene and fired at least one round toward his own head,” according to a news release. “Officers responded to the scene and observed Atencio walk into the street, armed with a handgun, wailing and screaming something unintelligible. Atencio turned toward the officers, made eye contact, and raised the gun toward the officers. The officers fired their weapons at Atencio and he fell, mortally wounded.”

Atencio attempted to shoot himself in the head in the middle of the street, but he missed.

Police found a .38-caliber revolver on the curb a short distance from where Atencio was found. The investigation also determined that Atencio had shot Abeyta one time prior to medical and police personnel being called.

Rourke deemed the officers’ actions justified and declined to file criminal charges “because they reasonably believed it was necessary to defend themselves and others from Mr. Atencio’s threatened use of deadly physical force,” the release stated.

Abeyta survived the shooting and recovered after surgery at North Colorado Medical Center.

Greeley Police Chief Jerry Garner, who has long opted not to name officers in such situations for their protection, would not provide the officers’ first names Thursday, deferring the decision to Rourke.

Garner said he was impressed with his officers’ actions in the shooting.

“What particularly impressed me in reading the DA’s report and kind of confirmed what we already knew, and that is that, clearly, these officers saved some lives,” Garner said. “They certainly saved the life of the woman the bad guy was going to finish off, and they probably saved the lives of the firefighters (who were treating her). They’re heroes as far as I’m concerned.”