TAHLEQUAH — The Tahlequah Police Department identified a 15-year department veteran on Tuesday as the officer who fatally shot a 35-year-old man during an altercation that was captured on another officer’s body camera Saturday morning.

Randy Tanner, the agency’s range master, remains on administrative leave while the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation completes an inquiry into the death of Joshua P. Crittenden, Tahlequah Police Chief Nate King said at a news conference.

Around 11:50 a.m. Saturday, officers went to a home in the 500 block of South Mission Avenue in response to a call indicating that two men had at least one gun in a white pickup that had been reported stolen, King said. The caller reported that the men had been fighting, he added.

Benjamin Brown, who was at the scene and was arrested on multiple felony warrants, gave officers a fictitious name of the person who had been in the pickup with him, King said. Brown’s father lives at the home where the shooting occurred, he said.

Others who were in the home Saturday morning told police no one else was inside, but the officers looked through the house because they believed the other suspect — Crittenden — was armed.

The footage provided to reporters was from Officer Bronson McNiel’s body camera. McNiel was riding in a patrol car with Tanner the day of the shooting.

“Come here, partner,” one officer can be heard telling one of the men, believed to be Brown. “Let’s get your hands up.”

All four officers at the scene were equipped with body cameras, but Tanner — originally only there in an observer role — did not activate his, King said. He also said another camera’s lens was obscured and that the fourth did not capture footage until after the shooting occurred.

All Tahlequah police officers have had body cameras since August 2014, King said, but whether they are required to be turned on depends on the situation.

“A call of this nature, with Officer Tanner as an observing officer, a training officer, by the time it escalated, his body was in fight or flight,” he said. “I’m not sure if I myself would have remembered to turn that camera on at that time.”

Police reported finding Crittenden when he went through an attic vent on the home’s south end, and they can be heard telling dispatchers he was in the attic with a weapon. The other occupants of the home “did not follow directions to remain in place on the back porch, causing the officers further safety concerns,” King said.

One of the officers can be heard saying he was concerned that Crittenden would jump into the home from a hallway attic access, using a flashlight to show the area in question.

The shooting can be heard but not seen on the recording, which also did not capture the altercation between Tanner and Crittenden that led to shots being fired. Tanner reported drawing his Taser to subdue Crittenden “until he discovered Crittenden did in fact have a handgun,” King said, and that prompted the officer to draw his gun, instead.

King said Crittenden pointed his gun at Tanner multiple times. Officers can be heard yelling that Crittenden had jumped out of the attic shortly before the shooting.

“He jumped. I can’t radio. I’m on the wrong channel to tell them,” one officer, identified as Pam Bell, can be heard saying. “He’s got a pistol. He’s jumped. I believe he did! … Shots! Shots!”

At 12:14 p.m., six shots are heard from the home’s southeast corner. Eight seconds later, police are heard saying, “We have a suspect down.” An ambulance arrived about eight minutes later.

Crittenden did not shoot at Tanner, but King said he had “no doubt” that he would have done so if given the opportunity, adding that Crittenden had been told “on multiple occasions” to drop his weapon.

OSBI Special Agent Charlie Mackey said investigators found a handgun near Crittenden after he was shot. King said the camera footage shows that Crittenden’s gun had its safety in the “off” position and that one of the bullets hit the middle knuckle of Crittenden’s right hand — indicating, he said, that Crittenden was holding his gun in front of him at the time he was shot.

“(Tanner) stated he was in fear of his life and believed using deadly force was his only option,” King said.

Crittenden was transported to a Tulsa hospital, where he died, authorities said.

Brown remains in Cherokee County custody, jail records show.

Tanner was the only officer who fired, King said.

“I feel like they acted decisively in a very dangerous and in a rapidly escalating situation,” King said of his officers. “They made several attempts to end this situation peaceably, … and he refused to do so time and time again.”

The OSBI will send a report on its findings to the Cherokee County District Attorney’s Office, who will determine whether Tanner’s use of deadly force was justified, Mackey said.

King said Crittenden’s family, whom he knew personally, have seen the body camera video.

Family members of both men told the Tulsa World on Tuesday that they didn’t wish to comment.

“This is a tragedy in Tahlequah, no matter how it plays out, no matter what happened,” King said. “A man lost his life. The officers that were involved in this (and) I myself, we will never be the same the rest of our lives.”