Police in Franklin said a man was shot and killed Tuesday night while they attempted to serve a warrant.The shooting happened about 9:30 p.m., according to deputies.Chief David Adams said officers were trying to serve a felony probation warrant to Clay Alan Lickteig, 52, of Hayesville, N.C., at a home on Woodland Hills Drive.The chief said officers were confronted by Lickteig in the driveway.He said Lickteig threatened officers, and there was a physical confrontation. One of the officers used a Taser on Lickteig, but the struggle continued, according to Adams. At some point, Lickteig then fired at officers, he said.Adams says the officers returned fire, killing Lickteig. He was pronounced dead at the scene.One of the officers suffered minor injuries in the scuffle before the shooting. Adams said.The home was known to officers for drug activity, Adams said. That, combined with Lickteig's prior criminal history prompted police to send two officers to this call, according to Adams. The incident is under investigation.Several law enforcement agencies are involved, including the SBI which investigates officer-involved shootings.An autopsy is to be performed later this week.Mayor Bob Scott said a shooting like this is rare. He later said, after looking back in police records, that this is the first reported officer-involved shooting death within the Franklin city limits.

Police in Franklin said a man was shot and killed Tuesday night while they attempted to serve a warrant.

The shooting happened about 9:30 p.m., according to deputies.

Advertisement

Chief David Adams said officers were trying to serve a felony probation warrant to Clay Alan Lickteig, 52, of Hayesville, N.C., at a home on Woodland Hills Drive.

The chief said officers were confronted by Lickteig in the driveway.



He said Lickteig threatened officers, and there was a physical confrontation. One of the officers used a Taser on Lickteig, but the struggle continued, according to Adams. At some point, Lickteig then fired at officers, he said.

Adams says the officers returned fire, killing Lickteig. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

One of the officers suffered minor injuries in the scuffle before the shooting. Adams said.

The home was known to officers for drug activity, Adams said. That, combined with Lickteig's prior criminal history prompted police to send two officers to this call, according to Adams.

The incident is under investigation.

Several law enforcement agencies are involved, including the SBI which investigates officer-involved shootings.

An autopsy is to be performed later this week.

Mayor Bob Scott said a shooting like this is rare. He later said, after looking back in police records, that this is the first reported officer-involved shooting death within the Franklin city limits.