A man fatally shot by police in the lot of a Northeast Portland supermarket had pulled a starter pistol on officers who stopped to question him, police said Monday.

Alan Lee Bellew, 29

East Precinct Officers Dominic Lovato, an eight-year bureau member, and Officer Michael Currier, a seven-year member, were riding together in a patrol car Sunday night when they pulled into the WinCo Foods lot off Northeast 122nd Avenue.

According to police, they started to question three people who were standing by the trunk of a car parked facing the store's west wall: the driver, Alan Lee Bellew, 29, of Lane County, and two passengers, a man and a woman.

Officers were talking with the group for several minutes when without provocation, Bellew retrieved the starter pistol from the car and pointed it in the direction of the officers as well as his two passengers, police said.

Both officers fired their guns at Bellew, who fell into the passenger seat, according to police.

At 11:46, the officers broadcast "shots fired" and more officers responded to the scene. Two minutes later, emergency medics were called in, according to police.

Portland police released this photo of a replica of Bellew's starter pistol, recovered from the scene of the late Sunday night shooting outside a WinCo Foods off Northeast 122nd Avenue.

By 11:52 p.m, medical workers arrived and pronounced Bellew dead at the scene.

According to a friend of one of the passengers in the car, Bellew pulled the starter pistol from the backseat and swung it around at officers.

Bellew and his passengers had spent the weekend in Portland and stopped for some food before driving back to Eugene, the friend said.

They were parked at the store when a patrol car pulled up to them and two officers emerged.

Police told the trio that they were looking for two suspects who were in a fight at the supermarket, according to the friend who relayed what the male passenger in the car saw. The other passenger was Bellew's girlfriend.

Bellew and his passengers told police that they weren't involved, but the officers still asked for their names and what they were doing, according to the friend.

Bellew, wanted on a failure to appear warrant out of Lane County, was disturbed that the officers were hassling them and gave police a false name, the friend said. The passengers in the car got out and were standing about 10 feet behind the car as officers continued to question Bellew.

At one point, Bellew opened the glove box in the car and an officer noticed a needle in it. The officer questioned what the needle was for and the driver told him he was diabetic. The officer asked to see his insulin, the friend said.

Bellew was outside the car and opened the passenger door and reached behind the passenger seat, then suddenly picked up what his passenger thought was a pellet or BB gun, pulled it out and swung it around, the friend said.

The officers yelled "Gun!" and then a barrage of gunshots followed.

The male passenger had wondered why his buddy had pulled out what looked like a real gun and told others that he understands why police reacted as they did, the friend said. But he was dismayed that officers kept questioning the three, even though they hadn't been involved in any fight or problem at the WinCo.

After he was interviewed by detectives, the male passenger texted to a friend and neighbor that he saw Bellew get shot six times by officers. "There's no way he survived," he wrote in the message.

The male passenger couldn't be reached for comment. Police have not released details about why officers first approached the car.

Portland police Sgt. Pete Simpson said the bureau's examination of the handgun next to Bellew "showed it to be a black revolver,'' but after it was collected as evidence, it was "revealed that the gun is a starter pistol.''

A starter pistol is typically designed as a revolver and commonly fired to start track or swimming races. It can hold blank shells or caps and usually a cloud of smoke can be seen when shot.

Bellew died of multiple gunshot wounds. Police said they're awaiting toxicology tests on Bellew's blood, expected to take several weeks.

Bellew is from the Eugene-Springfield area and was wanted in Lane County on a failure to appear warrant stemming from a heroin possession allegation and a probation violation following fourth-degree and resisting arrest convictions, according to Portland police.

Police have not said how many times the two officers fired, or where the officers were standing at the time. The officers were not injured.

Police Chief Larry O'Dea, Mayor Charlie Hales and Assistant Chief of Investigations Donna Henderson were among those who responded to the scene. Members of the East County Major Crimes Team, Portland's Independent Police Review Division, the Police Bureau's internal affairs and training divisions, and chief deputy district attorney Don Rees from the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office also responded to the scene.

--Maxine Bernstein

mbernstein@oregonian.com

503-221-8212; @maxoregonian