UPDATE: The suspect who police arrested after an alleged carjacking spree has died.

Utah Highway Patrol said officers were forced to use a Taser on Shane Gormley multiple times before taking him into custody.

Officials said Gromley had a heart attack while being treated by emergency crews and had been in the hospital ever since.

OGDEN, Utah – Officials have a suspect in custody after he allegedly ran from police, stole a vehicle, carjacked a woman, fought police, was tased and went into cardiac arrest.

The Utah Highway Patrol said the incident started when Shane Gormley led a trooper on a high-speed chase June 29.

He was in a work release program through the Weber County Jail.

Saturday officials said a man matching Gormley’s description stole a car from Riverdale dealership and led police on a chase but escaped.

Then Monday morning a trooper went to the apartment where Gormley’s girlfriend lives near 24th St. and D Ave. in Ogden.

They saw him jump from the apartment window and speed off in her car.

Troopers chased Gormley to 21st St. where they boxed him in but he ran from the car and tried to carjack others.

Authorities said he tried to carjack a truck and trailer but didn’t get in.

He continued running to D St. where he carjacked a 53-year-old woman and attacked her in an effort to take her car.

UHP said Gormley assaulted the woman while fighting off troopers who were trying to arrest him.

Troopers broke the car window and used a Taser on Gormley four times until they were able to take him into custody.

Emergency crews arrived to help the injured woman and check Gormley.

While they were treating him, Gormley went into cardiac arrest, was taken to the hospital and put in a medically-induced coma.

Authorities said tests show Gormley did not suffer brain or heart damage.

They said he was put in a coma because he had a high amount of meth and other illegal drugs in his system.

Officials said Gormley was wanted for multiple car thefts and running from several authorities over the past week.