San Diego Police have identified the officer and the suspect involved in a shooting Thursday that left the suspect dead after he allegedly tried to charge at the officer with a knife.

Twenty-four-year San Diego Police veteran Michael Alberts was one of several officers that was called to a condominium complex in the 14600 block of Via Fiesta around 11:40 p.m. to investigate a reported assault among neighbors.

A couple called police to report that a neighbor started yelling at them while they were walking in the area. The couple said the neighbor then threw cigarettes and lit matches toward them and kicked one of them.

When officers arrived, they found the victim who said he had been attacked and kicked by the man who lived in the complex.

Police went to the suspect’s home and knocked on the door. 60-year-old Ton Nguyen of San Diego exited holding a knife -- possibly a large kitchen knife, the SDPD said. Officers told the man to drop the knife, but he allegedly refused, and charged at one officer and attempted to stab him.

The SDPD said Alberts fired one shot from his service weapon, hitting the suspect in the torso. After Nguyen as down, the officers rendered aid until medics arrived on scene, the police department said.

The suspect was taken to Scripps La Jolla Hospital where he died a short time later.

SDPD Homicide Lt. Paul Rorrison said detectives are now in the process of interviewing neighbors and witnesses and digging into the suspect’s past. Lt. Rorrison said police had been called out to the suspect’s home at least once before this, but he couldn’t elaborate further.

He said police officers did not have body cameras on during this shooting, as the Northwestern Division of the SDPD does not have the cameras on their uniforms yet.

The lieutenant said one other person was home with the suspect at the time of the shooting, but he couldn’t give details on that bystander.

Neighbors told NBC 7 that police had been called to the suspect’s home several times for domestic disputes. One resident said he had allegedly kicked her dog once.

Other neighbors said the suspect was generous and nice, and would share homecooked meals with them.

Lt. Rorrison said the officer is very emotional and shaken up. He is being placed on administrative leave.

The case remains under investigation. Anyone with information should contact the SDPD Homicide Unit at (619) 531-2293 or Crime Stoppers at (888) 580-8477.

