A man who barricaded himself inside his Adger home and then committed suicide Thursday night has now been formally identified.

The Jefferson County Coroner's Office today identified the man as Michael Todd Yokel. Yokel was 49.

According to court records, Yokel had shot himself in the head three months ago after another fight with his girlfriend, but had survived that wound.

In the most recent case, deputies were dispatched about 6:15 p.m. Thursday to the home in the 200 block of Shores Camp Road in Adger. Another person, they said, called authorities saying the man had threatened to burn the house down and commit suicide if the girlfriend called law enforcement.

The girlfriend, said sheriff's Sgt. Jack Self, had a protection from abuse order against the man. She was not on the scene Thursday night.

Sheriff's negotiators and SWAT personnel responded to the scene. They were never able to make contact with Yokel. SWAT deputies made entry into the home about 8:30 p.m. and found him dead.

Authorities said Yokel was distraught over girlfriend troubles, and they had responded to a similar call earlier Thursday. Court records show Yokel was charged with attempted murder and domestic violence in March. He was released from jail in April when the charges were dropped.

In that case, according to an arrest affidavit, Yokel attempted to cause the death of his girlfriend by shooting a gas container that was insider her home with a .22-caliber pistol. On March 10, also at 6 p.m., he was in an argument with his girlfriend and punched her in the head.

He then went to his bedroom and came out point the gun at the gas container and screamed he was going to kill anyone that came to the home if his girlfriend called 911. He said he would kill her and then kill himself.

Yokel, the affidavit said, started shooting the pistol at the gas container. He then shot himself in the right temple, but the bullet didn't penetrate his skull. He was taken to UAB for treatment, and then to jail after he recovered.

The charges against him were dismissed April 21 after the girlfriend told authorities she no longer wanted to press charges.