17078790-mmmain.jpg

(Alex Remnick/NJ Advance Media

CAMDEN -- Authorities released audio of a man talking about suicide before being shot by police late Friday night at the Cramer Hill neighborhood in East Camden.

Oscar Camacho, 33, of Camden, was shot after aiming a loaded revolver at police officers, according to officials.

Camacho was driving his burgundy Honda Civic the wrong way on a one-way street in Camden -- striking cars -- prior to calling 911, according to audio.

"And you're saying you want to kill yourself?" asked an emergency dispatcher.

"I'm done," Camacho said. "I'm killing myself. I'm done."

Camacho indicated that he was suicidal, he had a gun in his possession and he had been drinking.

"I don't want nobody to come at me," he told a dispatcher. "I'm going to come at the cops, like I said. Whatever. If you want to go and do a shoot out, whatever. It is what it is."

Dispatchers attempted to keep Camacho on the phone.

"We're going to send the police out," a dispatcher said. "Do you want to stay on the phone with me till the police get there and the paramedics so they can help you out?"

"I don't know," Camacho said. "I don't know what they're going to do. I'm not going to feel comfortable. I'm going to want to, like I said, I'm done with my life. I'm going to be done."

He told police that his car was the corner of River and Lois avenues but, police ended up finding him around 11:20 p.m. at the corner of Bergen and Harrison avenues.

When two police officers found the empty Honda Civic, according to officials, Camacho allegedly pointed a loaded gun at them.

The officers fired their weapons at Camacho. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

A loaded revolver was recovered from his hand afterward, police said.

In the audio released by authorities, Camacho was no longer on the phone during the shooting but dispatchers can be heard telling each other that a shooting occurred.

Camacho had a prior drug distribution conviction and was not allowed to be in possession of a firearm, police said.

An independent investigation into the police-involved shooting will be conducted by the Camden County Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney General's Office, which is standard procedure.

The officers involved, whose names were not yet released, will be placed on administrative duty, which is department policy.

Don E. Woods may be reached at dwoods@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @donewoods1. Find the South Jersey Times on Facebook.