Joe Cody (Texas Department of Public Safety)

Joe Cody was a rapist. He was a robber. He was a thief. And, authorities say, he once murdered a man at random -- though he beat the rap on that one because of a technicality.

"He was a sociopath. He really was," said former prosecutor Andy Beach. "He was a scary, scary fellow."

Advertisement

A Dallas County jury agreed and quickly decided in 1985 that Cody had no place on the streets and sentenced him to life in prison.

Advertisement

Yet, Cody, 59, was free Tuesday afternoon, back in Dallas and walking around Bishop Avenue while known to the state as a "moderate" risk sex offender. And when officers swarmed him to arrest him for violating his parole, he pulled out a handgun.

Crime in The News Read the crime and public safety news your neighbors are talking about. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT

Within seconds, Cody was dead. No one else was hurt or could be hurt again by Cody.

Investigators are still sorting through what happened Tuesday. Cody's family portrayed him as a caring man who likely wouldn't shoot at police officers, but his criminal history suggests he was a violent criminal who committed heinous acts.

Advertisement

Cody and the 'Can Man'

Beach, who secured the life sentence in 1985, said Cody was a "white supremacist."

Cody had served nine years in prison for sexual assault and aggravated robbery from 1974, according to court records.

Advertisement

One night in 1984, Cody decided to go around West Dallas with his wife and shoot black people at random, Beach said. Cody pulled over and asked Dayon Martin, a passerby, for directions. Cody then pointed a gun at Martin, robbed him and shot him in the shoulder.

Advertisement

During a similar robbery later that night, Cody shot and killed Joseph Jones, known as the "Can Man" in the area because he collected aluminum cans along the roadways, authorities said. They were also indicted for allegedly robbing a third man that night.

Beach said the Can Man was innocent and harmless.

State District Judge Richard Mays dismissed the murder case against Cody and his wife Cathy because the prosecutor re-indicted the case after 120 days, which was then a violation of the Speedy Trial Act. Mays' decision was affirmed by the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals.

Advertisement

"I'm upset about it,'" Prosecutor Jim Nelson said after the appeals' court's decision in 1985. "Two people we feel we have a very strong case against for the murder of an innocent human being are going to never be able to be prosecuted for that murder.'

But the jury in the Martin shooting heard about the Can Man shooting and gave Cody the maximum sentence for the aggravated robbery: life.

While in prison in 1991, Cody was convicted of another aggravated sexual assault.

Beach said he watches about three or four people who he doesn't want to see get out. Cody, he said, "was one of those guys."

Advertisement

Cody was first paroled in 2008, but was sentenced to two years in prison again in 2010 for failing to register as a sex offender. He was last paroled July 14, 2014.

Joe Cody in 2008, when he was first paroled.

Cody was living in a halfway house in Dallas. It's unclear what he was doing Tuesday in North Oak Cliff. Witnesses said he appeared to be wearing a suit.

Not long before the shooting Tuesday, Beach had lunch at 303 in the Bishop Arts District, just blocks away.

Advertisement

"You talk about life coming full circle," Beach said.

'Couldn't ask for a better brother'

Police are investigating the shooting and whether Cody fired any shots. Officials said they believe four officers were forced to shoot Cody after he refused to drop his gun.

But his sister Rosa Cody said Wednesday that her brother didn't deserve what he got.

Advertisement

"What the cops did to him was wrong," she said. "Putting all them bullets in him like they did -- and four cops? That was wrong."

Rosa Cody said she had a "great relationship" with her brother, who she described as an "excellent person" who loved to sit out at night and look at the stars.

Rosa Cody -- who said she is much younger than her brother but declined to say her age -- said she didn't know anything about Cody's murder and robbery cases. Still, she said, "he did his time for all that."

"They shouldn’t hold that accountable to him because all that was in his past," she said.

Advertisement

She said that while Joe Cody spent most of his life in prison, he "would do anything for you" when he was out.

"He was a loving, kind brother," she said. "You couldn’t ask for a better brother."

This report includes information from stories reported by Steve McGonigle and Christy Hoppe from The Dallas Morning News' archives.

Here is the story on Cody's sentencing from 1985:

Advertisement

MAN GETS LIFE IN RANDOM SHOOTING By CHRISTY HOPPE Staff Writer

July 12, 1985

Joe Cody, who will never have to face charges in the shooting death of a West Dallas man known as the Can Man, awaited transportation to state prison Thursday after receiving a life sentence for a similar random shooting.

A nine-man, three-woman jury deliberated only two minutes and 30 seconds before returning a guilty verdict against Cody, 27, for the aggravated robbery of Dayon Martin on March 12, 1984.

Advertisement

The verdict was one of the quickest returned by a jury in Dallas County, court officials said. The same jury took another 40 minutes Wednesday to decide the maximum punishment -- a life sentence.

Cody, having been released from state prison four months before the 1984 shootings after serving nine years of a 20-year sentence for aggravated robbery, was patrolling a West Dallas neighborhood to shoot blacks at random, prosecutor Andy Beach said.

Cody stopped his car and asked Martin for directions, then pointed a gun at his face and demanded his money. When Martin turned to run, Cody shot him once in the left arm.

About 45 minutes later, Cody was accused of using the same tactic to fatally shoot Joseph Jones, known as the Can Man because for years Jones had collected aluminum cans in the neighborhood.

Advertisement

Cody was arrested two blocks away from the murder scene by police who had obtained a description of the assailant and the car from witnesses.

But an error by prosecutor Jim Nelson ended in the dismissal of murder and burglary charges in connection with the Jones shooting. Nelson failed to bring Cody to trial within the 120 days required by the state's Speedy Trial Act.

The all-white jury returned the guilty verdict without knowing about the incident involving the Can Man. The Can Man incident, as a separate offense, could not be referred to during the trial. But, the jurors were informed of the second shooting in testimony before they decided punishment.

After the verdict, court officials reported hearing Cody comment: "Gee. I've never had a life sentence before.'