Police on Friday named the two people who were killed after crashing a stolen vehicle in DeLand on Thursday.

The driver was felon Charles T. Boyd, 44, and the passenger was Lucy A. Hellstrom, 33, both of DeLand, according to DeLand police Sgt. Chris C. Estes.

Boyd’s extensive criminal history includes arrests in Volusia, Lake, Marion counties and six stints in Florida prison for a range of crimes, including burglary, robbery, grand theft and fleeing and eluding law enforcement.

Hellstrom has been arrested in Lake in Volusia counties for such crimes as passing bad checks, fleeing and eluding, grand theft and reckless driving.

Boyd and Hellstrom were in a PT Cruiser that was taken from a woman who was washing the vehicle at the DeBary Car Wash at about 11:30 a.m.

The vehicle crashed at the entrance of an auto dealership on U.S. Highway 17-92 in DeLand about 11:45 a.m., according to Volusia County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Gary Davidson said.

Authorities pursued the vehicle and deployed tire-shredding “stop sticks” but the pursuit was called off before the crash.

Estes said DeLand police officers deployed stop sticks at the northbound off-ramp of State Road 472 and U.S. 17-92 and at Firehouse Road and U.S. 17-92.

“In both instances the suspect vehicle avoided or missed the stop sticks,” Estes said in an email.

A DeLand police sergeant was traveling south on U.S. 17-92 and came to a stop when he saw the suspect’s PT Cruiser heading toward him.

The stolen vehicle passed the officer while traveling in the wrong lane.

The sergeant then made a U-turn to travel north. By that time, the crash had already occurred.

DeLand officers were not “actively engaged or pursuing the suspect vehicle,” Estes said.

The drivers of three other vehicles involved n the crash were also identified Friday.

They are a 77-year-old DeBary woman, a 32-year-old DeLand woman and a 20-year-old Lake Mary woman.

The DeBary and DeLand residents sustained non-life-threatening injuries.

The Lake Mary woman’s vehicle was hit by debris but she wasn’t hurt.

Kconnolly@tribpub.com