On Tuesday, 07/07/15, at 2346 hours, Reporting Officer (RO) Chief Harold E. Douglas was dispatched to a Suspicious Circumstances call at 318 South Lake, in the town of Holiday Lakes, Brazoria County, Texas.

RO was advised by Brazoria County Sheriff's Office (BCSO) Dispatch that the actor was yelling and beating the front door in an attempt to gain access to the home. RO was also informed the subject was a black male, wearing a black shirt and pants. Upon arrival at 318 S. Lake RO did not find anyone outside. RO then checked the residence across the street (317 S. Lake) with the same results.

RO then observed two white males at the corner of S. Lakes and Rocket Lane. They advised the actor was now across the street at 319 S. Lake. As RO drove into the driveway at that address, RO observed a black male matching the description given by BCSO Dispatch, beating on the front door of the home. RO advised BCSO Dispatch of the correct address. As RO was getting out of his patrol car, the actor quickly charged toward RO. Actor was yelling something that RO was not able to understand.

When the actor arrived at where RO was getting out of the patrol car (between the driver's side of the patrol car and the gate post of the chain link fence that surrounded the property) the Actor using his hands began hitting RO about the upper torso and arms. The actor using his feet was also kicking RO on his legs. At the same time the actor was striking RO's patrol car with his hands and feet.

BCSO ID Officer Goolsby and RO later observed a handprint that was possibly the actor's on the driver's side rear window of the patrol car. RO did not use any weapons during the attack because RO observed that the actor did not have anything in his hands. RO was attempting to calm the actor down by talking to him in what started as a calm normal voice, asking the actor what the problem was. During this time RO was knocked to the ground by the actor. RO then ordered the actor to get on the ground several times and RO was attempting to hold onto the actor. The actor did not comply with RO's commands and was attempting to run away. The actor broke away from RO momentarily and while standing in the road either pushed his shorts down or allowed them to fall down onto the road.

RO again attempted to grab the actor and detain him using hand hold techniques. AS RO continued to struggle with the Actor, the two subjects that had earlier directed RO to the location of actor came to assist RO. With their assistance RO was able to get the Actor down on the ground. The Actor continued to struggle with RO and the 2 citizens. At this point the Actor was on his hands and knees.

Eventually RO and citizens assisting him were able to control the actor enough for RO to place handcuffs on the actor. RO immediately rolled the actor from a face down position onto his right side. RO checked the actor and found him to be nonresponsive. RO checked for a pulse and was not able to find one. RO rolled the actor onto his back and checked again for a pulse. RO could not find a pulse and the actor appeared to not be breathing.

RO then advised BCSO Dispatch the actor was nonresponsive and to send EMS in. BCSO 1544 Greathouse with trainee Harwell and BCSO 1545 Houk arrived within 1 minute. Deputy Houk was also unable to find a pulse. Deputy Houk and Trainee Harwell began CPR on the actor approximately 1 minute later. Angleton EMS Unit 5412 arrived approximately 3 to 4 minutes later and took over chest compressions.

While CPR was being performed on the actor, 2 black males arrived on scene inquiring as to what happened to the actor. They were identified as Jessie Beverly and Kenric Dudley. Beverly advised he had known the actor since he was very young. He identified the actor as Jimmy Washington.

EMS personnel worked on reviving the actor for approximately 30 minutes on scene and then transported the actor to UTMB Angleton campus. The ER Physician, Dr. Julio Jayes, pronounced death at 0101 hours. At 0220 hours, RO accompanied ER Dr. Jayes and RN Stephanie Dejongh into the grievance room where the Actor's spouse, Ebony Nicole (Davis) Washington, B/F, DOB: 03/01/80 was waiting. Dr. Jayes informed Mrs. Washington of her husband's death. Mrs. Washington advised her husband's full name was Jimmy Lloyd Washington, Jr. and that his birth date was 06/04/72. Mrs. Washington stated that her husband, Jimmy Washington, would occasionally leave home for several days without contacting her. She further stated when he disappeared in this manner, it was her belief that he was using controlled substances. She also stated that she had not heard from him since the previous Thursday, July 2nd.

Mrs. Washington advised RO that her husband's usual controlled substance when he abused was crack cocaine. She went on to state that he usually came to Holiday Lakes when he disappeared and was abusing drugs. She advised she did not know who friends were in the Holiday Lakes area or where he acquired his drugs from that he abused. She also stated that her husband had been having headaches lately but would not go to a doctor concerning the headaches. JP 2-2 Richard B. Davis came to the ER and pronounced death at 0214 hours on 07/08/15. JP Davis also authorized a full and complete autopsy.

RO received a public service call from BCSO Captain Chris Kincheloe at 0405 hours advising that District Attorney Jeri Yenne had requested an In-Custody Death Investigation. Capt. Kincheloe advised RO to not allow Carnes Funeral Home to transport the decedent until he and his team arrived and completed their process. RO advised Carnes of the delay and awaited Capt. Kincheloe's team to arrive.

RO completed the Brazoria County 3 page Death Investigation Report. Capt. Kincheloe's team did arrive, consisting of himself, Investigator Stephen Buchanan, and 2 ID officers, Lt. Mark Adams and Heather Goolsby. Numerous photos of the decedent and RO were taken. RO surrendered the decedent's shoes and sorts which the decedent had taken off at the original scene in Holiday Lakes. RO also surrendered the recording media from the patrol car video system. This was returned to RO later after ID Officer Nielsen copied the files on it. A DNA swab was taken of blood on RO's badge patch of RO's uniform shirt. RO later surrendered the uniform worn during the incident to Nielsen.

Over the course of the next 3 days RO obtained the medical records on the actor from UTMB Angleton Campus. RO also learned that no blood was drawn for lab testing and no other lab tests were ordered for the Actor at UTMB-Angleton Campus. These medical records and information were forwarded via email to Dr. N.C. Mambo of the Galveston County Medical Examiner's Officer as requested by him on July 13, 2015. Case Status: Pending further investigation. Chief of Police, Harold E. Douglas, ID #2998