POLICE Department

Armed Suspect Fatally Shot at 12900 Tiny Tree

July 8, 2015 - Houston police are investigating the fatal shooting of an armed suspect and and the wounding of two other suspects in the 12900 block of Tiny Tree about 2 a.m. on Tuesday (July 7).

The deceased suspect, Marcellus Jamarcus Burley (b/m, 18), suffered gunshot wounds and was pronounced dead at the scene.

The other two suspects, Demontre Gregory Clark (b/m, 17) and Jalanie Jeanlouis (b/f, 24), suffered non-life-threatening wounds and were transported to Memorial Hermann Hospital. Both are charged with aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon in the 180th State District Court. A photo of suspect Jeanlouis is attached to this news release. A photo of suspect Clark is not available at this time.

Officer M. Rivera, who discharged his duty weapon, was not injured in the incident. Officer Rivera was sworn in as an officer in March 2009 and is assigned to the Southwest Patrol Division.

HPD Homicide Division Officers R. Lujan and L. Bailey reported:



A female victim was walking to her vehicle outside the Buzzy Bee convenience store at 15509 South Post Oak Road when she was quickly approached by two black male suspects (Burley and Clark) with red bandanas covering their faces. The victim managed to get into her vehicle and, as she attempted to drive off, one of the suspects pulled out a gun and attempted to rob her. As she drove off, the second armed suspect fired several shots but did not strike the victim or her vehicle. Both males then got into a waiting gray, four-door Volvo and fled the scene.



HPD patrol officers were in the area at the time of the shooting and saw the suspects with the weapons in their hands, and initiated a vehicle pursuit. Officers attempted to stop the vehicle, but the driver refused to do so and led officers through a residential area to the 12900 block of Tiny Tree.



Burley and Clark then jumped out of the vehicle and ran toward a back yard, with officers pursuing them on foot. At some point, Officer Rivera saw one of the suspects turn toward his partner with a weapon in his hand. Fearing for his and his partner's life, Officer Rivera discharged his duty weapon and struck both suspects. Officer Rivera then turned his attention back to the vehicle and gave the female driver (Jeanlouis) verbal commands to show her hands and exit the vehicle. Jeanlouis instead reached down several times as if to grab a weapon. Again, fearing for his life, Officer Rivera discharged his duty weapon and struck Jeanlouis.



Burley, who died at the scene, was found to be in possession of three handguns.

As is customary in HPD officer-involved shooting incidents, this case is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions. The Fort Bend County District Attorney's Office is also investigating the incident since it occurred in the Fort Bend County limits.









Jalanie Jeanlouis