A Christmas tree farmer suspected of dragging an Ashe County deputy with a vehicle is dead following a deputy-involved shooting Wednesday night. Three deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave.Dallas Shatley, 62, died at the hospital following an incident around 10 p.m. on Shatley Road near Highway 16. A deputy was treated at the hospital and released.Images: Deputy-involved shooting in Ashe CountyDeputies said in a statement Thursday that they had responded to a disturbance on Shatley Road when they became involved in a confrontation with Shatley.Shots were fired after Shatley dragged one of the deputies with his vehicle, according to the statement. Ashe County Sheriff James Williams told WXII that the deputy was dragged a short distance and that Shatley was shot by a deputy.A weapon was recovered from the vehicle, deputies said. The entire incident was recorded by body cameras the deputies were wearing.Deputies said they had responded to numerous disturbances at the home, and Shatley had a pending DWI charge.The SBI has taken over the investigation, which is standard procedure in a deputy-involved shooting, Williams said.

A Christmas tree farmer suspected of dragging an Ashe County deputy with a vehicle is dead following a deputy-involved shooting Wednesday night. Three deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave.

Dallas Shatley, 62, died at the hospital following an incident around 10 p.m. on Shatley Road near Highway 16. A deputy was treated at the hospital and released.

Advertisement Related Content Christmas tree farmer killed in deputy-involved shooting in Ashe County

Images: Deputy-involved shooting in Ashe County

Deputies said in a statement Thursday that they had responded to a disturbance on Shatley Road when they became involved in a confrontation with Shatley.

Shots were fired after Shatley dragged one of the deputies with his vehicle, according to the statement. Ashe County Sheriff James Williams told WXII that the deputy was dragged a short distance and that Shatley was shot by a deputy.

A weapon was recovered from the vehicle, deputies said. The entire incident was recorded by body cameras the deputies were wearing.

Deputies said they had responded to numerous disturbances at the home, and Shatley had a pending DWI charge.

The SBI has taken over the investigation, which is standard procedure in a deputy-involved shooting, Williams said.