Birmingham suspect dies in SCSO pursuit Published 12:29 pm Friday, July 10, 2015

By NEAL WAGNER / Managing Editor

A 45-year-old Birmingham man died at UAB Hospital after allegedly causing a crash while fleeing from a Shelby County Sheriff’s Office deputy, according to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency and the SCSO.

Sean Dawson Brooks died at the hospital after he was transported following the crash, which happened on Dunnavant Valley Road at its intersection with Hawthorne Street.

According to the ALEA, the two-vehicle crash happened at about 7:40 p.m., and Brooks died at 8:31 p.m.

At about 7:35 p.m., an SCSO deputy attempted to stop Brooks’ 2000 Honda Civic after the deputy “observed the vehicle in a local neighborhood while patrolling the area for suspicious activity, and then saw it leave the neighborhood quickly,” according to the SCSO.

After leaving the neighborhood, the deputy “observed the vehicle driving recklessly on Dunnavant Valley Road Road, almost striking another vehicle” before attempting to stop the suspect using his emergency lights and siren.

The suspect then sped up in an attempt to flee the deputy and collided with a Chevrolet Tahoe pulling onto Dunnavant Valley Road from Hawthorne Street.

“The deputy pursuing the Civic immediately called for fire and rescue assistance and began to help the injured,” read an SCSO release issued on July 10.

Brooks, his passenger, 48-year-old Chelsea resident Tammie Denise Smith, and the driver of the Tahoe, 38-year-old Birmingham resident William Mark Numnum, were transported to UAB Hospital following the wreck.

As of July 10, Smith and Numnum were still being treated at the hospital.

Cahaba Valley Fire and the Hoover Police Department responded to the scene to assist with transporting the crash victims and to assist with traffic control. The wreck closed a portion of Dunnavant Valley Road for more than two hours.

“We are in the process of thoroughly reviewing the circumstances leading up this accident. From the preliminary report, it appears the deputy was acting within the scope of his duties and within the policies of the Sheriff’s Office,” Shelby County Sheriff John Samaniego wrote in a statement. “The family and friends of Sean Brooks are heavy on our hearts today and our prayers are also with the Smith and Numnum families. It will take several days to complete the final review of this accident.”

The accident is being investigated by the ALEA.