Neil Peter White, a 38-year-old white man, was shot by Los Angeles police on Thursday, July 9, near West 9th Street and South Sycamore Avenue in Mid-Wilshire, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

About 8:40 a.m., LAPD Wilshire Division officers went to the area after they received multiple reports of a man using a skateboard to break windows near Wilshire Boulevard and La Brea Avenue, LAPD Cmdr. Andy Smith said.

When officers arrived, Smith said, they saw a man matching the reported description riding a skateboard down South Sycamore Avenue. The officers began following him in their car.

At some point, the man fell or jumped off his skateboard, Smith said. The officers got out of their car and tried to detain him, but he did not cooperate with their commands, he said.

During the struggle, one of the officers used a Taser on the man, directly pressing it against his body, Smith said. The Taser didn't appear to have any effect, he said, and the officers continued to scuffle with the man.

At some point, Smith said, the man grabbed the Taser from the officer and used it on the officer's leg. The officer's partner then opened fire, striking the man in the upper body.

The man was taken to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in critical condition, police said. The officers were treated and released for minor injuries.

Initially, police reported that the man was fighting with officers with his skateboard. Smith said that after investigators interviewed several witnesses, they discredited that report.

Sgt. Frank Preciado, another LAPD spokesman, said that investigators were also trying to review closed-circuit television footage in the area.

The officers were not wearing body cameras, Preciado said.

Patrick Comiskey said he was walking his poodle, Louie, on their regular route when he saw two police officers struggling with a man.

Comiskey, 54, said it appeared the officers -- a man and a woman -- were trying to put the man's hands behind his back to arrest him. He watched as the male officer reached behind his back for what Comiskey thought was a pair of handcuffs. Instead he heard what sounded like a gunshot.

"It was point blank," he said. "All hell broke loose."

On July 16, LAPD identified the officer as Stephan Shuff.