BOULDER CREEK >> The family of Cyrus Evencio Hurtado described him Tuesday as a loving 17-year-old who recently moved in with his grandparents in Boulder Creek after several years living in Nevada with his mother.

Hurtado, who was shot and killed by Santa Cruz County sheriff’s deputies last week, also started school at San Lorenzo Valley High School in April.

He was “one of the most compassionate, sensitive, loving and caring human beings you could ever know,” said Hurtado’s mother, Jennifer Hiler.

Tuesday, a fund was created to help pay for Hurtado’s funeral and related expenses. His family said donations can be made at Liberty Bank, account 02-179538.

A separate GoFundMe site also has been set up at www.gofundme.com/zfhxsw.

Memorial services are expected in San Lorenzo Valley and in Nevada, where his mother lives. Details for both events have not been set, said Bonnie Pryor, Hurtado’s aunt.

“We’re still planning and trying to work that out,” Pryor said.

Deputies were called to Hurtado’s home on Fern Avenue in Boulder Creek about 11:15 p.m. Thursday after Hurtado struck his grandfather and damaged furniture with a martial arts club, Santa Cruz County sheriff’s Lt. Kelly Kent has said. Hurtado came out of the home with a loaded rifle pointed upward, then pointed at deputies.

Deputies shot Hurtado then tried to revive him, but he died in surgery early Friday at a hospital, Kent said. Hurtado’s grandfather was not taken to a hospital and was recovering Tuesday, family members said.

Hurtado was born in Santa Cruz and was the oldest of three boys, his family said.

Raised in San Lorenzo Valley until age 7, he then moved with his family to Nevada. In March, Hurtado returned to Boulder Creek to live with his grandparents. He enjoyed making art, and Hiler said his dream was to race dirt bikes with his stepfather.

She said Hurtado also suffered from a mental health disorder, though she declined to describe it.

“With his heart of gold, and caring nature, he touched so many lives,” Hiler said.

Hurtado started classes at San Lorenzo High School in April as a junior, said San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District Superintendent Laurie Bruton.

“There were no instances of violence or any disciplinary action against him,” Bruton said Tuesday.

Residents of Boulder Creek and elsewhere in the San Lorenzo Valley have rallied around Hurtado’s family and grandparents, who live at the Fern Avenue home.

Kevin Foster of Boulder Creek-based Kevin Foster Construction replaced a door and windows damaged in the shooting and parts of the home damaged by Hurtado earlier in the night. Foster said materials for the job were donated by ProBuild in Felton and from Scarborough Lumber in Boulder Creek. Many others also offered materials, he said.

“Our family is grateful for the tremendous support the community has provided to help our family begin to heal and repair his grandparent’s home,” Hiler said.

Foster, who knew Hurtado’s grandparents through friends, said Tuesday that he “offered to do the repairs and get out of their hair as soon as possible.”

He said he tried to return the home to its original state rather than change it.

“We didn’t want it to be a constant reminder of this terrible incident,” Foster said.

Memorial fund

What: A fund to pay for Cyrus Hurtado’s funeral and related expenses has been set up at Liberty Bank, account 02-179538. Checks can be made to Rol and Debbie Hiler, Hurtado’s grandparents. A separate GoFundMe site has been set up at www.gofundme.com/zfhxsw

Where: Liberty Bank branches are at 13233 Highway 9 in Boulder Creek and 6230 Highway 9 in Felton.

Why: Hurtado, 17, was shot and killed by Santa Cruz County sheriff’s deputies at his Boulder Creek home on Thursday after he pointed a rifle at them.