The Tuscaloosa Police Department has released more than two hours of audio and video related to the fatal arrest of Anthony Ware, who collapsed and died after officers pepper sprayed him Friday night.

The full unedited audio and video provided by TPD is available below. The language and content may be offensive to some viewers, but TPD said they did not alter the footage except to protect the identity of the 911 caller.

The video, captured from officers' body cameras and dash cameras, does not appear to show Ware's actual arrest or officers using pepper spray.



Six officers participated in Ware's arrest, but not all were wearing body cameras, and no footage of the use of OC spray was caputred.



Anderson said the lack of body cameras is a budgetary issue. He said only 60 or so of the departments 286 officers are equipped with body cameras, and as TPD is able to afford more, they will purchase and use them.

In the video excerpt above, an officer arrives on scene to assist officers with Ware, who appears to have collapsed off-camera.

The officer begins to cut through briars and heavy underbrush before someone asks Ware if he can turn over. There is no response.

Moments later, an officer says, "Yea he's breathing, he just don't want to cooperate."



Anderson said the officers did not intentionally choose to ignore a medical emergency, they thought Ware was faking it.



"Many times when we deal with individuals that we take into custody, especially if we've had to chase them or use any amount of force against them, whether it be OC spray or physical force to overcome their resistance, many times the suspects will pretend that they're injured and need medical attention," Anderson said. "They prefer to go to the hospital rather than the county jail."

A minute or so later in the video, officers search for Ware's pulse before someone calls for immediate rescue.

A different body cam captures several officers performing CPR on Ware in rotation for several minutes before a back board is brought into the woods.

The caller told dispatchers that Ware was armed with a .22 caliber pistol in his pocket, but no gun has been found yet in the thick woods where Ware ran after officers approached him.

The body cameras also captured an emotional scene after they emerged from the woods, where people had gathered and saw Ware as he was loaded into an ambulance.

Several bystanders began filming the police while at least two people shouted, "Is he alive?"

A woman off-camera asks, "I got one question, is he breathing?" before a man joins her.

"Is he breathing? That's all we want to know," he says to one officer.

An officer tells all of his colleagues to vacate the area as soon the rescue truck leaves. TPD's footage ends with an officer on a personal phone call in his car.

"I'm not going to be home anytime soon," the officer says on the phone, describing the original dispatch. "[They] got in a foot pursuit with him. They got him in custody way back in the woods so [we] walked down there to help him out. And I think he just died out there in the woods."

"... I was doing CPR and Rita said it looked like he was in cardiac arrest. He's a big, heavyweight man who ran and got sprayed. I think he just died. Hopefully not."



People have said Ware was shot, that he was tased to death, even that police officers caved his skull in. Anderson said Wednesday he hopes the release of the video will dispel those rumors and show the community that the officers involved acted professionally and physically exhausted themselves trying to save Ware's life after they realized he was having a medical emergency.