Haven Scott

hscott@thespectrum.com

Popular storiesCedar Temple groundwork begins this weekTwo injured in helicopter crashKanarraville teen ropes her way to topAttempted kidnap suspect pleads not guilty

PAROWAN – As the investigation into the deadly officer-involved shooting moves forward, family and friends of Rocco Joseph Palmisano III, the man shot to death in the incident, described him as a father, son, and good friend.

The tragedy last Thursday, they say, sent shock waves throughout the tight-knit Parowan community.

Palmisano was a member of the Parowan Fire Department from 2009 to 2014.

According to a Cedar City Police Department news release, Parowan Police Officer Tyler Uresk responded to a 911 call at approximately 9 p.m. on the 800 West block of 200 South where the caller stated a neighbor, later identified as Rocco Joseph Palmisano III, was allegedly striking a child.

“(Uresk) arrived on scene and encountered (Palmisano) in the driveway of the home,” according to the news release. “The suspect pointed a handgun at the officer while approaching him in an aggressive manner. The officer fired two shots at the suspect, striking him both times.”

Connie Palmisano said she didn’t witness the shooting but noted she knew Rocco Palmisano, known as Rocky, as a loving and caring father of two who would never abuse his children.

“We were in the process of moving and we were arguing, Rocky and I” she said. “Our son was getting something out of the back of the truck and the door on the shell came crashing down on his head. He was screaming and crying, but that is all I can think of as to why the neighbors would think Rocky was beating him.”

She admits her son told of being disciplined, or “snipped on the lip,” but she feels like the media has blown it out of proportion.

“I can’t even count on one hand the number of times he has disciplined his children,” Connie Palmisano said. “He was really a loving man with a heart as big as Texas.”

Rocky’s sister, Julie Palmisano, said Rocky frequently wore a gun — he had a permit.

“He even took it to the bathroom. He was an American patriot who believed in his right to carry. But he also respected police to the fullest,” she said. “Whenever people would start bashing on the police he was the first person to step up and defend them. This is just so heart breaking for the family, we would like to get to the bottom of this.”

Connie Palmisano said she doesn’t recall Rocky wearing his gun the day of the incident but said he might have grabbed it to move it to the truck as the officer was pulling up.

“I was in the garage and heard two shots and wondered if they were just warning shots,” she said. “We were just winding down for the day and it had actually been a good day because we were looking forward to moving closer to his mother. It’s been hard on everybody, including the officer, he was crying when I met with him later.”

Parowan fireman Nate Thayer said Rocky Palmisano was a member of the Parowan Fire Department from 2009 until last year when he moved to Las Vegas.

“I’ve known him for 20 years though and he has always been an excellent employee, he worked for me building cabins and later we worked together in PFD” he said. “I think I speak for all of us in the fire department when I say he was a good guy. I trusted him, and in this business that is important, you have to trust these guys to have your back, and I trusted Rocky.”

PFD held a memorial on Main Street in honor of Palmisano’s service on Tuesday, according to City Manager Shayne Scott.

“The members of the fire department wanted to honor him as a firefighter and member of our community since the funeral will be held in California,” he said. “We checked with the officer involved and he was 100 percent supportive.”

Kirby Jake of Cedar City spent many years working with Palmisano building log cabins in Brian Head.

Jake most recently worked with Palmisano on the solar projects in Parowan.

“He was always a great guy and fun to be around, he was like my brother,” he said. “He was a hard worker, and he was good at his job. He was always willing to help anybody who needed it and give them a helping hand. I am really going to miss him at work. My prayers go out to his wife and two boys.”

The Iron County Critical Incident Task Force, which is made up of members from multiple law enforcement agencies in Iron County, is conducting an investigation into the shooting.

Iron County Attorney Scott Garrett said everyone is working hard to expedite the process and he expects the investigation to be completed by Friday.

“Then it could be an additional 10-14 days while we review the information of the investigation that was conducted,” he said.

Authorities could not comment any further in the case.

Follow Haven Scott,@HavenWScott. Call him at 435-865-4522.