A retired cop shot and killed a man he said ignored his order to drop a knife during a predawn confrontation yesterday on Staten Island, police said. The dead man's friends, though, described him as a law- abiding immigrant who was looking forward to marrying his childhood sweetheart next month in Mexico. Retired Officer Luke Blake wouldn't discuss details of the shooting of Ricardo Carlon last night, saying only, "It's very shocking, it's unfortunate.

" The incident happened about 4 a.

Advertisement

m. as both were returning from parties. Blake, 38, was alone as he walked to his car near Castleton and Port Richmond Aves., police said. Carlon, 24, was with five friends, all returning from a dance club in Port Richmond, a friend said. Understood English According to Blake, Carlon and a second man approached him. Carlon was holding a steak knife and spoke loudly in Spanish with the second man, Blake said. Blake told cops he didn't understand what they were saying and had no idea why the two came toward him, police said. The retired officer said he ordered Carlon to drop the knife. A friend of Carlon's later said that Carlon understood English. "The retired officer told him to stop and drop his weapon, but he kept coming," said Sgt. Kim Royster, a Police Department spokeswoman. Blake fired three times from his licensed 9-mm. semiautomatic gun, hitting Carlon in his legs and torso. Carlon was taken to St. Vincent's Medical Center on Staten Island, where he was pronounced dead at 4:44 a.

m., police said. 'Very happy guy' Carlon was supposed to be married next month in Mexico City, said his roommate, Guadalupe Montalvo, 26. He described his friend as a peaceful man, who came to New York six years ago and earned a living installing carpets on Staten Island. "He liked to play soccer, he was a very happy guy," said Montalvo, who roomed with Carlon on Post Ave. "He was supposed to go to Mexico City next month to get married.

Advertisement

" Injury on the job Blake retired from the NYPD in June 1999 after suffering an injury on the job, police said. Police could not say yesterday how long Blake was on the force. People on his block in New Brighton said the married father of two young girls was a good neighbor. "I don't think he would hurt anyone intentionally, because they are very nice," said Sylvia Farrow, 45. "Luke is very nice and very helpful, he'll help out with anything.

" Police arrested Carlon's five friends and charged them with disorderly conduct and obstructing government administration. Blake was treated for trauma at Staten Island University Hospital, police said.