AUSTIN (KXAN) — Austin Police Officer Patrick Cheatham was cleared Thursday by a grand jury for the July 12, 2015 shooting of a suspect in western Travis County.

At 12:20 a.m., police were called to the house of the suspect, David Allen Lepine, 62, on Claxton Drive after getting a 911 call from a woman who said Lepine was following her in his vehicle and had tried to open her passenger door.

Officer Cheatham and Porterfield met with the man and discussed the woman’s claims, but decided to leave because they didn’t find probable cause that a crime had been committed.

As they were walking back to their patrol cars, the officers noticed smears and drops of blood on Lepine’s truck. The officers asked him about the blood marks and decided to handcuff him while they called crime scene personnel to the scene.

When Porterfield told the man to turn around and place his hands behind his back, Lepine ran into a wooded area near his house. Both officers chased after him.

While running from the officers, Lepine pulled a gun from his pocket. After being ordered to drop the gun, Lepine pointed his weapon at Officer Cheatham, who fired twice, shooting Lepine both times and killing him, the District Attorney’s Office said.

A loaded handgun was recovered from Lepine. The grand jury spent around seven hours reviewing evidence and hearing witness testimony before deciding not to charge Officer Cheatham.

The shooting of Lepine was the third time an APD officer shot and killed someone that week. On July 5, 2015 Austin police officers were involved in a shootout at the Downtown Austin Omni Hotel that left a gunman dead. That same morning, there was a separate deadly shooting where three police officers shot and killed a man at a house in North Austin, after they say the suicidal man pointed a gun at police.

“Although three have happened in very close proximity to each other, they are independent of each other and not any part of a pattern. So, there’s no connection,” APD Chief of Staff Brian Manley said at the time.