Sabian Warren

HENDERSONVILLE — The State Bureau of Investigation is investigating a custody death Monday at the Henderson County Detention Center.

Bruce Dean Stafford, 55, died "after a brief altercation" while being processed at the jail following his arrest by Hendersonville police, Henderson County Sheriff's Office Capt. Steve Carter said in a news release.

Stafford was taken to the jail at 2:46 p.m. After the altercation, Stafford "became unconscious," Carter said.

"Sheriff's office detention officers and the detention medical staff immediately administered CPR," Carter said. "Additionally, Henderson County EMS and the Hendersonville Fire Department responded and continued with life-saving measures."

Authorities could not revive Stafford. He was taken to Pardee Hospital, where he was pronounced dead shortly after 4 p.m.

Sheriff Charles McDonald asked the SBI to conduct an investigation in accordance with protocol for jail custody deaths, Carter said.

Hendersonville police Capt. Bruce Simonds said officer Robert Underwood arrested Stafford at the Fish & Pets store on Spartanburg Highway after the store owner reported Stafford was attempting to sell two stolen Chihuahua puppies.

After being confronted about the puppies, Stafford admitted he stole them from a home on Piney Ridge Drive, which is near his home on Bethea Drive, Simonds said.

"He had taken some puppies from a neighbor," Simonds said. "He admitted to taking them."

Underwood arrested Stafford without incident on charges of possession of stolen property and attempting to obtain property by false pretense, then took him to the jail. Underwood was wearing a body camera, which recorded his interaction with Stafford, Simonds said.

"It was on all the way to the jail," Simonds said of the camera. "He (Underwood) had turned it off at that point because there are cameras in the jail."

The video from officer Underwood's camera has been turned over to the SBI, Simonds said. Cameras in the booking area of the jail would have captured the altercation with detention officers, Simonds said.

Officer Underwood was not involved in the altercation, he said.

Stafford appeared to suffer some sort of medical problem that caused him to lose consciousness, Simonds said.

"It's very unfortunate," he said. "We feel for the family and loved ones."

SBI spokeswoman Teresa West said an autopsy was planned for Stafford but otherwise she could not comment on the investigation.