MARION, MI -- Barbara Lewis doesn't know all of the details surrounding the fatal police shooting of her stepfather.

But she's convinced the state police trooper who fired his weapon Tuesday, July 15 could have done something else.

"There was no reason to shoot him," Lewis said. "They could have handled it better."

Police on Wednesday identified Lewis' stepfather, 43-year-old Eugene Kailing, as the person killed after an encounter with a trooper near the intersection of M-115 and 20 Mile Road in Osceola County.

A trooper responded to the area on a report of a car on its side, against a house, with a man running around frantically.

When the trooper approached, Kailing allegedly rushed toward him with a metal pipe. The trooper deployed a Taser, but with little or no effect, before pulling his service weapon and firing at Kailing.

Related: Man shot dead by state police rushed trooper with pipe, not fazed by Taser, police say

Lewis said her stepfather could be boisterous, but wasn't violent.

She said he had just been released from jail on Monday. She didn't know why he was incarcerated, but he had been on probation after a January felonious assault conviction.

"I only saw him for 15 minutes after he got out. But he was happy. He was fine. None of this makes any sense," Lewis said.

Lewis said Kailing needed medication for issues related to bipolar disorder. She claimed he did not receive that medication during the recent jail stint.

Kailing's criminal history includes prison time for an August 2014 felonious assault, a 2003 conviction for malicious destruction of police or fire property, and a 1997 felonious assault.

He also has other misdemeanor convictions for malicious destruction of personal property and operating with a suspended or revoked license.

Lewis knew her step-father as as "the happiest person" who loved Mountain Dew, singing and dancing. He also loved to work on cars and trucks.

"He was an amazing father and an amazing person," she said.

"I want people to know what kind of person he was," she said. "He loved life."

Lewis said police have told relatives few details about what happened at the shooting scene. She believed the accident at M-115 and 20 Mile Road happened at or near a relative's residence.

E-mail John Tunison: jtunison@mlive.com and follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/johntunison