A Moreno Valley man who was shot to death by sheriff’s deputies after assaulting three other people a week ago was identified on Thursday.

Anthonie Smith, 25, was shot at 6:03 a.m. July 16 in the roadway in the 24900 block of Sunnymead Boulevard, according to a coroner’s report released in response to inquiries by The Press-Enterprise.

The names of the deputies involved have not been released. Sgt. Mike Manning said a “threat assessment” was still being conducted to determine if they would be made public.

He could not release their race, but said Smith was African American.

Moreno Valley has a system of more than 250 surveillance cameras, many placed at intersections and parks around the city, which are monitored by the Sheriff’s Department. Manning said if any cameras captured the shooting, the footage would not be made public because it would be part of an investigation.

About 3 a.m. July 16, Smith’s parents called police to say he had just physically assaulted a juvenile relative, and that he had a history of mental illness, the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department said in a news release.

Deputies found Smith in a bedroom of a home on Fir Street east of Perris Boulevard. He attacked a deputy with a “large metal hand tool,” causing serious injury, authorities said. He jumped out a second-story window and escaped.

Three hours later, he stabbed a man nearby, causing non-life-threatening injuries, authorities said.

Two deputies found Smith near Perris and Sunnymead boulevards. They said despite their pleas that he surrender, he refused to put down objects in his hands – later determined to be a knife and a hand tool – and advanced on the deputies, causing at least one of them to shoot.

A Taser that deputies attempted to use during both encounters with Smith had no effect, a sheriff’s statement said. It was unclear why.

Smith’s criminal record included a 2010 conviction for misdemeanor resisting or obstructing a public officer, court records show.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9284, atadayon@pressenterprise.com, @PE_alitadayon