A rookie Orlando police officer shot and killed a 23-year-old man during an arrest that turned “violent” Friday morning, police Chief John Mina said.

The suspect, Albert Joseph Davis, died after he was shot in the chest by Officer Kelvin Vidro shortly after 1 a.m. at Watauga Woods apartments.

Vidro was hired in August and worked the overnight patrol shift on the east side of town. He was not injured.

Orlando police were called to the apartment complex near the intersection of Curry Ford Road and South Conway Road after a fight broke out among five people, including Davis.

When Vidro tried to arrest Davis, he took off running but was caught about 100 yards away. Instead of surrendering, Davis chose to fight with the officer, Mina said.

“Based on the physical evidence at the scene and radio transmissions, it appears there was a very, very violent struggle there,” Mina said. “Our officer did use his Taser at some point during the struggle and a lot of his equipment, to include his Taser, baton, gun magazine, wristwatch and ball cap, were strewn about the scene of this violent struggle.”

Mina said Vidro fired his gun one time, hitting Davis in the chest. Police attempted CPR until paramedics arrived. Davis was taken to a local hospital, where he was first listed in critical condition, then later died.

Police said Davis was not armed but did have marijuana and cocaine on him.

Davis is thought to have recently moved to Orlando from Colorado but police did not know if he lived in the apartment complex where he was shot. According to FDLE records, Davis has lived in Orange County for at least eight months.

Colorado court records show that Davis was arrested multiple times for nonviolent crimes including identity theft and forging checks. His latest Colorado arrest was for failing to appear in court in January 2014.

Davis’ family members would not comment Friday.

As is customary when an officer uses deadly force, OPD has asked the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to conduct an independent investigation into Friday’s shooting.

Officials said Vidro is on administrative leave, which is also customary after a shooting.

In the majority of the eight officer-involved shootings reported last year, the officers accused of firing their guns were back on duty within two weeks, records showed.

Mina will have to sign off before Vidro is allowed back to work.

This shooting is the fourth Orlando police-involved shooting this year and the second this week, records show.

On Monday, Officer William Anderson shot in the arm a 17-year-old suspect who police say struck him with his car while attempting to escape arrest.

Anderson was seriously injured. He was moved from Orlando to UF Health Shands Hospital in Gainesville, where he remains for specialized treatment.

The teen suspect has been arrested, and prosecutors have 30 days to determine whether he will face his charges of attempted murder of a law-enforcement officer as an adult or a minor. He will turn 18 next month.

In the one other fatal police shooting this year, undercover OPD Officer Yong Hall killed an armed 37-year-old man at an Orlando apartment complex. Izzy Colon was shot after he refused to surrender to arrest when Hall and another undercover officer heard gunshots in the area. Neither of the officers was in uniform at the time.

dstennett@tribune.com or 407-420-5447