The Cameron County District Attorney TMs Office announced Wednesday that a grand jury cleared the Brownsville police officer who shot and killed a 23-year-old man during July.

After weighing evidence presented by prosecutors, the grand jury returned a no bill for Officer Rolando Trujillo Jr.

Trujillo shot and killed Jose Roman Rodriguez, 24, of Brownsville, on July 17.

Rodriguez and his passenger, Jaime Gomez, were riding in a vehicle that matched a car linked to several thefts. They TMd stolen beer from a convenience store earlier that night, said District Attorney Luis V. Saenz.

Texas Rangers and the grand jury concluded that officer Trujillo was justified in discharging his weapon at Mr. Jose Roman Rodriguez, Saenz said.

In a videotaped statement six days after the shooting, Trujillo said he noticed Rodriguez TMs car and the suspect vehicle appeared similar.

My level of awareness was raised as the vehicle was very similar and was also a suspect to a current theft. I then advised via radio to the telecommunications network that I had visual on a possible suspect vehicle,” Trujillo said during the videotaped statement.

A dashcam video shows Trujillo walk toward the car, approaching the driver.

Gomez jumped out of the front passenger seat and ran to a nearby field.

This was a very dangerous situation for me and without visual of the suspect I am unaware if he has a weapon or from what direction he is going to approach me,” Trujillo said during the videotaped statement.

The dashcam shows Rodriguez attempting to close the car door and flee.

“Rodriguez then quickly opened the center console of his vehicle. Once Rodriguez placed his hands on the center console, my line of sight was completely blocked of Rodriguez TMs right hand,” Trujillo said during the videotaped statement.

Trujillo fired four times at Rodriguez.

Autopsy results show Rodriguez died from two gunshot wounds to the chest.

Trujillo said he believed Rodriguez was pulling out a deadly weapon, which was later revealed to be a screwdriver .

Rodriguez was pronounced dead later that night at the Valley Baptist Medical Center.

Brownsville Police Chief Orlando Rodriguez said Officer Trujillo is now back on duty after three days of paid administrative leave.

Based on what TMs going on across the country in general, the anti-law enforcement sentiment that a lot of people are pushing out on that agenda, our officers have to be careful now more than ever, Rodriguez said. As far as this case, Officer Trujillo will be able to continue on his duties as he TMs assigned to do so.

Jose Ramon Rodriguez TMs mother, Carmen Trevino, told Action 4 News she doesn TMt agree with the grand jury TMs decision and plans to file a lawsuit.

Gomez, the passenger in the vehicle before the fatal shooting, remains jailed on a theft charge.