Jason Pohl

jasonpohl@coloradoan.com

The Larimer County District Attorney has determined two Fort Collins officers “had every right” to fire 11 shots and kill a knife-wielding man outside an apartment earlier this month.

The DA’s report adds a new layer to witness and police accounts about the early morning disturbance call that turned deadly July 18 at Stone Creek Apartments, 1225 W. Prospect Road.

Many witness accounts to media outlets were similar to those highlighted in the report published Tuesday, clearing officers Adam Brunjes and Tyler Patterson of any wrongdoing in the death of 22-year-old David Wheat Jr.

“When David Wheat lunged at the officers with the knife, Officer Patterson and Officer Brunjes had every right to defend themselves with deadly physical force,” DA Clifford Riedel wrote in his report.

Fort Collins police were dispatched to the apartment complex at 3:53 a.m. on reports of a verbal disturbance involving a drunk and suicidal man. Wheat had grown agitated and aggressive toward BreAnn Anderson and Samantha Mosco, two women whose apartment he was staying in. They lived with Wheat’s brother, Davis.

At one point David Wheat said he was, “not afraid to hit a woman,” the report indicates.

Davis Wheat later told investigators David Wheat had been drinking tequila, may have taken painkillers and was talking about committing “suicide by cop.” The argument turned into a fight after David Wheat grabbed a steak knife from the kitchen, swung it toward his brother and then ran out of the apartment toward the girls who were on the phone with 911 dispatchers.

Brunjes and Patterson arrived and saw the two girls walking outside the apartment. As they walked to meet them, the girls began to wave frantically for them to hurry. That’s when Brunjes saw Wheat make “a beeline” toward Mosco.

Police saw David Wheat hit the woman with something shiny in his hand. They would later learn she had been stabbed in the shoulder.

Patterson ran “full speed” and tackled David Wheat, Riedel’s report states. The two hit the ground, Patterson rolled on top of Wheat and Brunjes joined in the struggle, striking David Wheat with his baton.

During the scuffle, Patterson heard someone yell, “He has a knife!”

He sprang to his feet and saw David Wheat was clutching a knife in his right hand.

Officers pulled out their guns and ordered David Wheat to drop the knife. He defied orders, began taunting police and said “Do it ... what are you waiting for?”

Brunjes then saw David Wheat “moving his feet as if getting ready to charge the officers.”

They said they would shoot him if he stepped closer — he responded by saying, “I don’t care.”

“David Wheat then lunged towards the officers whereupon they both fired their handguns multiple times. David Wheat fell to the ground,” according to the report. One of the bullets fired hit the knife he was holding, splintering it.

Assistant Chief Cory Christensen on Tuesday clarified the officers fired a total of 11 shots — the detail was missing in the report. All of those shots were fired within two seconds and each struck Wheat. Bystander cellphone video recorded the altercation and the sounds of the shots being fired in rapid succession.

“These are two officers who are making the same decision at the same time,” Christensen said. “They each shot as many rounds as they thought was necessary to stop the threat.”

If David Wheat had survived, he would have been charged with multiple felonies, including attempted first-degree murder of the woman as well as the officers, Riedel wrote.

“Officer Patterson’s decision to physically tackle David Wheat, despite the fact that he saw something shiny in his hand that could have injured Officer Patterson, clearly saved Ms. Mosco from receiving additional stab wounds and very likely saved her life. Officer Brunjes’ attempt to use his police baton to subdue David Wheat was appropriate and necessary,” Riedel said.

Fort Collins police administrators consider the acts heroic.

Though her injuries were non-life-threatening, Mosco spent a week in the hospital and underwent surgery on her arm to repair a severed tendon, Anderson, her roommate, told the Coloradoan Tuesday. The stabbing came within millimeters of major blood vessels. It could be months before she regains full use of her arm.

Anderson still struggles to get through days without thinking of the deadly shooting. She’s in the process of moving out of the apartment.

Now she’s trying not to dwell on the “why.”

“We still don’t really have answers for why he attacked us,” she said.

Anderson wishes the night didn’t have a deadly outcome. But she understands it was necessary.

“He was flailing at them,” she said. “They had to protect their own well-being.”

Patterson and Brunjes have been employed by Fort Collins police since January 2014 and are assigned to the Patrol Division, police said previously. Before they started working in Fort Collins, Patterson spent 2 1/2years with the San Antonio Police Department in Texas. Brunjes spent 51/2 years with the Scottsdale Police Department in Arizona.

Both remain on paid administrative leave. Each will go through a series of re-introduction measures — including marksmanship tests and psychology screenings — before returning to duty. An internal review and evaluation by the Citizen Review Board is also expected.

The shooting marked the 20th officer-involved shooting since 1992 in Fort Collins, according to Coloradoan and police records.

Reporter Jason Pohl covers breaking news and law enforcement for the Coloradoan. Follow him on Twitter: @pohl_jason.