By: News 9

A Midwest City police officer has been cleared to return to duty, after shooting and killing a burglary suspect who threatened him with a gun in July.

Police Chief Brandon Clabes said Lieutenant Lacky Harkins, who was placed on administrative leave pending an investigation by police and the Oklahoma County Sheriff’s Department after the death of Stephen Ray Brown on July 20, acted appropriately and within the guidelines of the department’s use of force policy and procedure.

7/22/2015 Related Story: Authorities Identify Suspect Shot, Killed By Off-Duty MWC Officer

According to police, Brown was shot while committing a burglary at a house in the 1600 block of S. Choctaw Road in Choctaw. Harkins was off duty and checking on a relative’s home while they were on vacation. When he pulled into the driveway, he noticed the front door had been kicked in. So he entered the home with his duty weapon to investigate.

Once inside, Harkins said he heard Brown in the master bedroom area. When Harkins walked into the room, Brown stepped out of the master bathroom armed with a loaded .22 revolver. Harkins shot Brown twice as Brown began to raise the gun. Brown was pronounced dead at the scene and it was later learned he had an extensive criminal record out of Missouri.

Oklahoma County District Attorney David Prater wrote the following statement to MWC Police Chief Brandon Clabes,

“Chief Clabes, as you are aware, my Chief Investigator, Gary Eastridge responded to the officer involved shooting scene wherein Midwest City Officer Lackey Harkins shot and killed a burglar inside his in-laws' home. That evening, Eastridge briefed me on the circumstances and the facts as they were learned by the scene investigators. Harkins was lawfully in the home of his in-laws making a residence check while they were away. While in the residence, Harkins was confronted by an armed burglar. Harkins was in fear for his life and shot the burglar. In reviewing the details of the investigation to this point, it is my opinion that the shooting is justified and authorized by law. Investigators located a pistol near the hand of the deceased burglar. The evidence and circumstances located at the scene corroborate and support the information given to investigators by Harkins. I believe that Officer Lackey Harkins was in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm at the moment he shot the burglar who was threatening him. I consider your officer, Lackey Harkins cleared for duty as you see fit. If you have any questions please don't hesitate to contact me.”

“It was distinct from the evidence at the scene and Lieutenant Harkin’s testimony that he had no option but to use deadly force in this situation. He did all the right things and possibly saved lives had someone else entered that home and surprised Brown,” said Chief Clabes. “Society is becoming more violent, it was unmistakable in this case because you normally don’t see burglars armed with loaded handguns—were are fortunate and grateful Lieutenant Harkins was not injured or killed during this confrontation.”