The man shot and killed by Broward Sheriff’s Office detectives Tuesday after he fled two traffic stops has been identified as 24-year-old Joseph Fuller of Oakland Park.

Fuller was confronted by a detective after he pulled his dark-colored Chevrolet HHR into the parking lot of the Floranada Apartments, 1300 NE 50th Court, around 2:30 p.m., authorities said.

The location is about two miles north of the home address listed for Fuller by investigators.

When Fuller reached for a weapon from between his legs, said Broward Sheriff Scott Israel, the detective opened fire.

The detective was identified Wednesday as Clyde Davis, 48, who has been a deputy for more than 21 years.

Davis was placed on administrative assignment, which is standard procedure for an employee involved in an incident resulting in death, officials said.

The day-long hunt for Fuller began around 4:30 a.m. Tuesday when a deputy en route to work saw a man driving erratically on Interstate 95 south near the Cypress Creek exit, Sheriff Scott Israel said. The deputy pulled over the driver along Commercial Boulevard.

As the deputy requested DUI detectives, the driver took off, said Veda Coleman-Wright, sheriff’s spokeswoman. The deputy, following protocol, did not pursue the vehicle.

The deputy ran the driver’s identification and the vehicle’s tag, which came back to an address in Oakland Park, Israel said. The deputy notified the Oakland Park district of the suspect and the vehicle.

Around 11 or 11:30 a.m., a deputy from the Oakland Park district spotted the vehicle and attempted a second traffic stop along Dixie Highway south of Floranada Road, Coleman-Wright said.

Fuller was wanted for violating probation on a weapons charge and for traffic charges stemming from the earlier stop, Israel said. The driver again fled, and the deputy notified the sheriff’s office’s Violent Intervention Proactive Enforcement Response unit.

Detectives spotted the driver a third time around 2:30 p.m. about five or six blocks from the Floranada Apartments, 1300 NE 50th Court, Coleman-Wright said. The detectives followed the driver to the apartments, which are across from Floranada Elementary School.

When a detective approached, Fuller reached between his legs for a large-caliber revolver, Israel said. A struggle ensued, and the detective fired his weapon multiple times, wounding the man.

Oakland Park Fire Rescue took the 24-year-old man to Broward Health Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead at 3:12 p.m. His name was not released.

“The deputy relied on his training,” Israel said. “The suspect chose a path of noncompliance and reached between his legs.

“In my estimation, it looks justified.”

. No other deputies fired their weapons and no other injuries were reported, Israel said.

Northeast 50th Court, which is a block north of Commercial Boulevard, was shut down between Northeast 13th and 15th avenues during the investigation. The closed-off stretch included Temple Bat Yam and the Merryfield School of Pet Grooming.

After the shooting, a portion of the top floor of the apartments was blocked off and a deputy was guarding the stairwell. Residents stood on their balconies overlooking the crime scene as investigators photographed a dark blue Chevrolet and marked it with numbered orange cones.

Thomas Shively, 46, lives behind the pet-grooming school and had gone inside his mobile home after walking his dog Stacy when he heard gunfire.

“It was a lot. It was rapid,” he said. “I was surprised. It sounded like gunshots. I walked outside and that’s exactly what it was.”

Gregg Docktor, director of Merryfield School of Pet Grooming, said he was inside the school about 2:30 p.m. when he saw and heard police cruisers zooming down the street with sirens blaring.

“In the 44 years I’ve been here, I’ve never seen a situation like this,” he said.

Docktor said he stood outside the school’s entrance for about 15 minutes and watched as officers ducked behind the doors of marked and unmarked police vehicles.

“I’m thinking to myself maybe it’s not a good idea to be out here, and then boom, boom, boom, I heard the shots,” he said. “I smelled the gunpowder.”

Staff writer Erika Pesantes contributed to this report.

emiller@tribune.com, 954-356-4544 or Twitter @EmilyBethMiller