A homicide suspect was shot and killed by two Green County Sheriff’s deputies in Monroe in July after he pointed a gun at them that was empty, according to a report by state investigators.

Francisco Benitez-Santiago, 25, of Monroe, died after he was shot twice from close range on July 22 by Green County Sheriff’s deputies Cody Kanable and John Schuetz, said the report from the state Division of Criminal Investigation that was sent to Green County District Attorney Gary Luhman for review earlier this month.

State law requires an outside agency to investigate officer-involved deaths.

According to the 550-page report:

Kanable and Schuetz were experienced deputies with good records and both had recently completed training programs.

Kanable said he fired his pistol at Benitez-Santiago immediately after Benitez-Santiago “stood up and squared with me” upon coming out from his hiding area behind an apartment on 12th Street. As he fired at Benitez-Santiago, Kanable had a rifle slung over his shoulder and was using his other hand to hold the leash of his barking police dog, Ike.

Kanable told investigators that he recalled feeling that he “was going to get shot and killed,” because he knew Benitez-Santiago was the only suspect in another shooting incident less than 30 minutes earlier in Monroe that left one man dead and another critically wounded, the report said.

“The more he played it in his head, it seemed like (Benitez-Santiago) was holding the gun in a ready-position, like it was an ambush,” the report continued.

Schuetz told investigators that he was about an arm’s length away from Kanable when he spotted Benitez-Santiago holding a black-colored handgun with both hands and was looking directly at them from just 5 to 10 feet away. He told investigators that he yelled “Drop the gun,” but Santiago ignored the command and raised the gun “directly chest level” at the deputies. Schuetz fired two rounds from his DPMS Panther Arms rifle as Kanable fired his pistol.

Meanwhile, from inside the apartment, a woman looked out a window and watched Benitez-Santiago pull a handgun from his waistband and was proceeding to raise it when she heard a loud “pop” followed by several other “pops” she believed were gunshots.

Benitez-Santiago fell backward to the ground and continued to breathe while holding his pistol in his hand, both deputies told investigators.

Monroe police officers then handcuffed and rendered aid to Benitez-Santiago.

An autopsy showed that Benitez-Santiago was shot in the head with a high-velocity bullet, presumably from the rifle, and in the abdomen with another bullet, which was found in his lower rib cage.

Forensic units that combed the scene of the shooting found two fired rifle bullet/cartridge casings and five fired pistol bullet/cartridge casings, all of which were consistent with the number of shots that the deputies said they believed they fired at Benitez-Santiago.

Also found was one Bersa brand “Thunder 22” .22-caliber pistol and magazine, which a Monroe officer said Benitez-Santiago was carrying. The magazine and chamber of the pistol “were noted to be devoid of any fired or unfired bullet/cartridge casings.”

Earlier that night, the report said, Benitez-Santiago killed Samuel Primero Nunez, 40, and injured Elias Perez-Barrios, 35, at a mobile home on 17th Street.

An ex-girlfriend of Benitez-Santiago said he told her that the two men, both of Monroe, were part of a group that had attacked him within the previous two weeks and that he was “going to kill them before they killed him.”