Terry Dickson

The Wayne County sheriff's deputy who shot and killed an armed man Tuesday night in Jesup had 13 years in law enforcement, Sheriff John Carter said.

Carter identified the deputy as Robert L. Brantley, 38, and said he had spent nine years in the military police, two with the Jesup Police Department and the past two with the Sheriff's Office.

Carter said he was releasing the information in coordination with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which is conducting an independent investigation into the shooting death of 35-year-old Jerrod Tyre.

Brantley has been placed on administrative leave until the GBI investigation is complete.

Stacy Carson, special agent in charge of the GBI's Kingsland office, said the results will be provided to the district attorney for the Brunswick Judicial Circuit.

Brantley fired four shots and three of them struck Tyre, Carson said.

Tyre was pronounced dead at the scene.

Brantley is a criminal investigator with the Sheriff's Office and is assigned to the office's Special Response Team. Brantley and other team members responded to 114 Briar Branch Road after a domestic dispute there during which Tyre had fired shots and refused to surrender a handgun to responding deputies who had called for assistance, according to preliminary information provided to the GBI by the Sheriff's Office.

The early report also indicated that Tyre aggressively approached the officers with the gun still in hand.

It was only then that the shots were fired that struck Tyre, the report said.

Carson said the GBI has not yet given clearance to release the kind of weapon Brantley was using.

It is standard procedure, however, for officers in SWAT and other special response teams to be armed with automatic rifles and other long guns.

Carter said he had found no record of any past trouble with Tyre, domestic or otherwise.

"Not in recent years, anyway. I don't know what the GBI has found. I'm pretty familiar with our frequent offenders,'' and Tyre was not one, Carter said.

Terry Dickson: (912) 264-0405