CASPER, Wyo. — A Converse County Sheriff’s Office deputy was justified when he shot and killed an armed man in July, the county’s prosecuting attorney said Wednesday.

Deputy Corey Dwyer will not face criminal charges for shooting Robbie Lee Edison on July 23, according to a letter written by Converse County Attorney Quentin Richardson to Sheriff Clint Becker.

“The use of lethal force was completely justified by the actions of the deceased, Mr. Edison,” Richardson wrote in the letter, which was based on a report from the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation, which investigated the shooting.

Dwyer, who was placed on administrative leave following the shooting, is expected to return to work soon.

At the time of the shooting, Edison was wanted on a warrant for violating his probation for felony drunken driving in South Dakota. The 47-year-old was from Yankton, S.D.

The shooting occurred at 12:23 a.m. off a rural Converse County road. Dwyer spotted a truck reported stolen out of northeastern Nebraska under the Anderson Dairy Bridge.

A tent was pitched near the truck. Dwyer shined his flashlight on the tent and identified himself as a deputy, the letter states. The deputy ordered Edison “two or three times” to show his hands. Edison placed his left hand into the tent and raised a black handgun with his right hand.

The deputy drew his service weapon and ordered Edison to drop his weapon, to which Edison said “No.”

“Deputy Dwyer was able to see the man tracking him with the gun and that his finger was on the trigger,” Richardson wrote.

Dwyer fired at Edison because “he feared for his life.”

After calling for backup and medical assistance, the deputy realized Edison’s weapon was in fact a Co2-powered BB gun.

“It is virtually impossible to tell it is not a real weapon from even a few feet away under the best of circumstances, certainly not in a very dark location late at night,” the letter states.

Edison sustained four gunshot wounds, one each to his right forearm, right exterior tricep, chest and back.

“The wounds to Mr. Edison are consistent with his pointing the weapon at Deputy Dwyer,” Richardson wrote.

An autopsy report showed Edison had a blood alcohol concentration of .228 percent at the time of the shooting.

“Deputy Dwyer acted as any officer would who was faced by a person who refused to drop a weapon pointed at the officer,” the letter states.

Richardson concludes by writing that Edison was responsible for his own death.

The announcement was the second one in a week in Wyoming which declared a peace officer was justified in his shooting of an armed man. Last week, Natrona County District Attorney Mike Blonigen asserted there were no grounds for criminal charges against Casper Police Sgt. Daniel Dundas, who shot and killed a man while serving a search warrant at his home in July.