A 30-year-old Papillion man who died Friday night after a crash in Saunders County may have been fleeing from authorities over fear of losing his job.

Stanley R. Bane was killed in the crash around 10:30 p.m. on Nebraska Highway 92 east of Yutan.

About 15 minutes before the crash, the Nebraska State Patrol said, Bane’s 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse had been clocked at 90 mph by a Yutan police officer.

The officer pulled over the Eclipse before it reached Highway 92. After stopping briefly, Bane drove off, heading east on Highway 92, the patrol said.

The officer pursued Bane out of Yutan, and the Eclipse rear-ended a semitrailer truck near the Platte River bridge.

Bane was found pinned inside the vehicle. He was taken by medical helicopter to Creighton University Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

The driver of the semi was not hurt.

Bane’s only sibling, brother Derrick, 33, of San Bernardino, California, said Monday that their father, Jay Bane, told him that Stanley Bane had just finished a work shift as a driver for United Parcel Service and probably was headed for a fishing spot west of Omaha.

Derrick Bane also said he suspects that his brother fled from authorities because he may have feared that a speeding citation would cost him his UPS job, a position Stanley had worked hard to obtain.

“He’s not the type of person to run from the cops,’’ Derrick Bane said. “I know my brother pretty well. It took him four years to get that driving job.

“That’s the only thing I can think of’’ for why he fled from authorities, he said. “Knowing my brother, that makes the most sense.’’

Stanley Bane was single and had no children, his brother said, and he lived with his parents.

“He just got that good-paying driving job,’’ Derrick Bane said. “He was saving up’’ for a place of his own.

Fishing was a passion for Stanley, his brother said.

“He caught all kinds of fish,” he said. “He was real lucky with catching fish. He got that from his grandfather.’’

Authorities said the investigation into the crash was continuing. A grand jury will be called to investigate the death, as required by state law when someone dies while in police custody or in the process of being apprehended.

Court records show that Stanley Bane had a history of driving infractions, including speeding. The records also show a 2008 DUI conviction.

Contact the writer: 402-444-1259, jay.withrow@owh.com