Deputies have identified a man who died in an officer-involved shooting in Stokes County Friday. Another man was stabbed and also held hostage.Lee Aaron Gerston, 33, died following an incident that began around 5 p.m. at Shear Country Hair and Tanning salon on Old Highway 52 and ended at a home on Mill Street.Paul Bradley, the salon owner's husband, was treated at the hospital for multiple stab wounds and was released Saturday morning.Mobile app users, tap here for video from the scene.Deputies allege Gerston stabbed Bradley during a robbery at the salon before taking Bradley hostage inside the home minutes later. Bradley was released as a hostage a couple hours later.A standoff continued with Gerston until he left the home armed with knives in each hand, deputies said. After refusing to drop the weapons and continuing to approach deputies, Gerston was hit with a stun gun and later shot, deputies said.Gerston recently moved to Knoxville, Tenn., and was taking a friend to a drug rehab somewhere in Virginia, deputies said Monday. It's not yet clear why Gerston was in Stokes County.Deputies involved in the incident included Sherff Mike Marshall, Capt. Thomas Sands, Lt. Shannon Gammons and Detective Sgt. Wade White.The SBI is handling the investigation.

Deputies have identified a man who died in an officer-involved shooting in Stokes County Friday. Another man was stabbed and also held hostage.

Lee Aaron Gerston, 33, died following an incident that began around 5 p.m. at Shear Country Hair and Tanning salon on Old Highway 52 and ended at a home on Mill Street.

Advertisement

Paul Bradley, the salon owner's husband, was treated at the hospital for multiple stab wounds and was released Saturday morning.

Mobile app users, tap here for video from the scene.

Deputies allege Gerston stabbed Bradley during a robbery at the salon before taking Bradley hostage inside the home minutes later. Bradley was released as a hostage a couple hours later.

A standoff continued with Gerston until he left the home armed with knives in each hand, deputies said. After refusing to drop the weapons and continuing to approach deputies, Gerston was hit with a stun gun and later shot, deputies said.

Gerston recently moved to Knoxville, Tenn., and was taking a friend to a drug rehab somewhere in Virginia, deputies said Monday. It's not yet clear why Gerston was in Stokes County.

Deputies involved in the incident included Sherff Mike Marshall, Capt. Thomas Sands, Lt. Shannon Gammons and Detective Sgt. Wade White.

The SBI is handling the investigation.