On July 26, 2015 at 1:14 p.m., Officer H. Tran, was dispatched to suicide call at 4601 S. Pinemont #132. Officer C. Farmer, Officer K. Tabora, and Officer C. Holloway, were assigned as back units for the suicide call.

Initially, the officers did not make contact with anyone in apartment #132. However, the officers located a white female, later identified as Jami Gaubatz in the rear of the complex acting erratically. The officers stated the female apparently had smeared dog feces all over her body. While Officer Holloway was interviewing a witness, Boyce Garner in his patrol vehicle, Ms. Guabatz ran to the patrol vehicle and attempted to reach inside for Mr. Garner. At that point Officer Tran detained Ms. Gaubatz by placing her hands behind her back and handcuffing her. Officer Tran then escorted Ms. Gaubatz to an adjacent grassy area in an attempt to keep her out of the sun. Ms. Gaubatz was verbally aggressive with the officers but the officers did not state she was physically aggressive.



The officer asked Ms. Gaubatz if she had taken any narcotics in which she replied she only drinks and has never taken drugs in her life. Sergeant P. Terry, and Officer S. Lopez arrived at the scene as additional back up units. Officer Lopez was assigned to transport Ms. Gaubatz to the Southeast Jail to be booked for public intoxication. It should be noted the officers on the scene provided water to Ms. Gaubatz in an effort to keep her hydrated.

Officer Lopez stated Ms. Gaubatz was talkative until they reached the intersection of Belfort and Mykawa which is a short distance from the Southeast Jail located at 8300 Mykawa. Officer Lopez apparently thought Ms. Gaubatz had fallen asleep. Officer Lopez continued to transport Ms. Gaubatz to the jail. Upon arrival at the jail, Officer Lopez realized Ms. Gaubatz was unresponsive and not breathing. Officer Lopez immediately requested assistance from the jail medical staff. The medical staff performed CPR on Ms. Gaubatz until Houston Fire Department medical personnel arrived to take over emergency medical care of Ms. Gaubatz. Ms. Gaubatz was transported to Ben Taub Hospital where she was pronounced dead at 4:49 p.m. by Dr. Pillow.