John Andrew Prime, and Alexandria Burris

Update: The Shreveport Police Department has identified the man killed in an officer invovled shooting as 33-year-old Khari Westly.

Westly was killed yesterday during an exchange of gunfire with Shreveport patrol officers. He is also accused of firing two shots at this estranged wife.

Officers involved in the shooting are:

Lieutenant John Stalnaker, hired by the department in Aug. 1990,

Corporal Kimberly Weaver, hired by the department Feb. 2009,

Corporal Emmett Gafford, hired by the department in Feb. 2009

Officer Kimberly Harris, hired by the department in Aug. 2011.

The officers were placed on paid administrative leave by Chief Willie Shaw as per departmental policy.

The officers weren't injured.

Original story:

A man was shot and killed this morning when police responded to a call from a woman that she and at least one other woman were being held at gunpoint by a male relative in Queensborough.

The call just before 11 a.m. came from a residence in the 3100 block of Exposition Avenue, which runs north off Greenwood Road near the Louisiana State Fair Grounds.

The women, aged 16 and 19, told arriving officers the man had held them since approximately 4 a.m. but finally left the residence just before 11 a.m., giving them the opportunity to call authorities, a release from police spokesman Bill Goodin said. The women said they believed the man had gone back to his residence in the 3100 block of Boss Avenue, directly behind their dwelling on Exposition.

As officers headed to Boss Avenue to locate the man, his estranged wife arrived at the Exposition Avenue house to check on the victims. The man confronted his wife there and fired at least two gunshots at her, the release said. Investigating officers attempted to talk to the man, who then fired another gunshot as he fled from them in an apparent attempt to evade capture, Goodin noted.

The man ran to the intersection of Alabama Avenue and Greenwood Road, where he turned toward pursuing officers and fired another shot. At that point, four officers returned fire, rounds striking the man multiple times. The man was subsequently taken to University Health by the Shreveport Fire Department, where he was later pronounced deceased.

None of the responding officers or the female victims were injured. The four involved officers, whose names have not yet been released, have been placed on paid administrative leave by Chief of Police Willie Shaw as required under departmental policy. The dead man's name was not released pending notifications.

Sunday afternoon, Shreveport Police CSI units still were processing multiple crime scenes on Exposition and Alabama avenues, where dozens of evidence markers dotted the ground, sidewalks and the parking lot of a business . Police recovered and seized a small-caliber handgun and a number of civilians also were questioned at police headquarters, Goodin said.

All the officers involved were uniformed and were of a diverse racial makeup, Goodin said. The dead man was an adult black male.

The incident remains under investigation.