Brian Lee Telegram & Gazette Staff

WORCESTER – A Fitchburg man who was shot with a Taser Wednesday after he allegedly went on a rampage inside the Pennywise Market died early Thursday.

Police said Wilmer Delgado-Soba, 38, died at 3:30 a.m. at St. Vincent Hospital. The confrontation with police occurred shortly after noon on Wednesday, inside the 3 May St. market.

Workers Thursday described an out-of-control man who created a chaotic scene at the small, Main South convenience store.

In an interview, Mike Maranda, the owner of Pennywise Market, said police “tried everything” before using the Taser.

Mr. Maranda said Mr. Delgado-Soba "had come running in, bouncing all over the place, knocking stuff off the shelves."

The store owner said the man caused about $150 worth of damage by the time he was done.

“It was something out of the unusual,” Mr. Maranda said. “It took three officers to try to subdue him.”

Mr. Maranda's wife, Rae-Ann Maranda, said she was working when the man entered with a broken beer bottle in hand.

“He came around, smashed our mirror, started opening our coolers and pulling out sodas and juices and smashing them all over the floors,” Mrs. Maranda said.

Mr. Delgado-Soba then lifted a case of water over his head and smashed it on the floor, she said.

The out-of-control man took a grocery basket and banged it against the store’s back window, then ran back and forth in the family-owned store, which has surveillance cameras.

Police said the cause of Mr. Delgado's death is undetermined and an autopsy would be conducted Friday. District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr. said he had been notified of the death and that the Worcester Police Department was conducting an investigation.

Police said officers went to the market about 12:30 p.m. on reports that Mr. Delgado-Soba was tearing up the store. Employees said the police called for an ambulance and started talking to the man, trying to calm him down. He didn't respond when they asked him why he destroyed items in the store, police said.

When police told Mr. Delgado-Soba to leave, he became violent and started to resist and swing at the officers, police said. At one point the man charged at the officers, prompting one officer to use his Taser. Police said the Taser appeared initially to have no effect, and the man ran to the opposite end of the store.

Police said he soon calmed down and they were "were able to subdue him."

Paramedics, who had placed Mr. Delgado-Soba on a stretcher, realized he was suffering from a medical condition, and while on the stretcher he attempted to fight with emergency personnel, police said.

Store employees said the more they spoke to Mr. Delgado-Soba, the more irate he became, Mrs. Maranda said. He eventually removed his pants.

Clad in his underwear, he sat down and poured a bottle of detergent on the floor, she said.

That’s when police arrived and tried talking to him, she said.

“The more they tried talking to him the more irate he got,” Mrs. Maranda said. “They kept saying, ‘You gotta get up,’ and ‘Let’s go out.’ “

Mrs. Maranda said the officers did not strike the man in any way.

“They tried very hard to talk to him,” she said, noting the man had resisted them by swinging his arms and hands.

“At some point they tried to put his hands behind his back,” she said. “He was fighting them tooth and nail.

"That’s when they Tased him," she said. They were eventually able to "get him in some kind of a maneuver with his arms and cuffed him,” she said, demonstrating the maneuver.

Michael McCartney, associate professor of criminal justice at Anna Maria College in Paxton, said he read a press account of Mr. Delgado-Soba’s death.

“It would seem to me that that would be the kind of circumstance for which the Taser was developed," he said.

“I wasn’t there and I’m not a police officer,” Mr. McCartney noted. But in general, the Taser is used so that an officer doesn’t have to resort to using his or her firearm, he said.

Emergency radio communications indicate a dispatcher asked police to respond to the store at about 12:34 p.m. for a report of a shirtless Hispanic man with tattoos tearing up the place. Hear the scanner transmission.

“He’s destroying the store, and he’s got a couple bottles in his hands,” the dispatcher told responding officers.

Several minutes later the dispatcher asked the officer if the incident could be drug related.

“Yup, he’s tweaking,” the officer responded. “I’m trying to get him to answer me, but he’s not even answering me.”

The radio transmissions indicate that additional police, including EMTs, were called to the store. At one point, a police officer asked the EMTs to hurry up because “this guy’s a nut.”

“I did tell them he was off the wall,” the dispatcher said.

“He’s combative,” the officer responded.

Mr. Delgado-Soba had a history of criminal convictions.

In 2012 he was sentenced to two concurrent terms of 2 years in the House of Correction after pleading guilty to assault with a dangerous weapon and breaking and entering in the daytime with intent to commit a felony. In 2009 he was sentenced to two concurrent terms of 2 ½ years in the House of Correction, with 8 months to be served after pleading guilty to assault and battery and intimidation of a witness. The balance of the entence was suspended for 3 years with probation. Charges of assault with intent to murder, attempted murder, assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, and intimidation of a witness were dismissed at the request of the commonwealth.

Mr. Delgado-Soba was also convicted of trespassing and disorderly conduct last year in Central District Court. One of the disorderly conduct charges was amended from a charge of open and gross lewdness and Mr. Delgado-Soba was found responsible after the charge was decriminalized, according to court records. In that case, Mr. Delgado-Soba was arrested after police said they saw him urinating in a bottle on a public way in Worcester with his genitals exposed.

Mr. Delgado-Soba also had a trespassing charge pending against him in Central District Court. He was arrested on that charge June 18, after a police officer said he saw Mr. Delgado-Soba and another man standing beneath a "No Trespassing by Loitering" sign on a building on Charlton Street, according to court records. In a statement of facts filed in court, Officer Justin Bennes said the two men were leaning against Mr. Delgado-Soba's car with the trunk open and appeared to be preparing heroin for use. The officer said the man with Mr. Delgado-Soba was sticking a needle into his arm as he drove past the pair in his cruiser.

Mr. Delgado-Soba was due back in court Aug. 5.

Originally, Tasers were called non-lethal weapons, but now they’re generally referred to as less lethal because there have been instances that people died after being struck, the professor said.

About 16,000 agencies internationally use Tasers.

A variety of studies have been conducted on the topic.

In 2012, Amnesty International reported that the death toll from Tasers since 2001 had risen to more than 500 in the United States. An Amnesty International spokeswoman said Thursday that those were the most recent statistics the organization had compiled. It is working on updating the number but does not have a target for release of a new report.

In 2009, a study by the Police Executive Research Forum argued that as a result of its examination injuries to police had been reduced by 76 percent because they were able to use Tasers instead of having to rely on a more physical type of confrontation.

Mr. McCarthy said that in some cases it is believed that a pre-existing medical condition that the officer would have no way of knowing about, and even if a person has been using certain drugs, could magnify the effects of the Taser.

The Anna Maria professor also said that a diagnosis called "excited delirium" had been used by some coroners to explain deaths.

“It’s supposedly a condition that the National Association of Medical Examiners says is a real condition that can cause deaths as a result of a Taser, but it doesn’t appear in psychological literature," the professor said. “There are all these differences of opinion out there about how many deaths result and what the causes of them are."

In 2012, the American Heart Association for the first time produced a scientific, peer-reviewed study that it said showed Tasers can cause cardiac arrest and death.

Brad Petrishen and Gary Murray contributed to this story.

Contact Brian Lee at brian.lee@telegram.com. Follow him on Twitter at @BLeeTG.