Jordan Buie, and Stacey Barchenger

In less than three minutes, a man told police about the chaos that unfolded inside an auditorium screening "Mad Max: Fury Road" at the Carmike theater in Antioch on Wednesday.

"So I was in the movie theater, like, literally a minute or two ago," the man said in a 911 call released by police.

"And a guy, this shady-looking guy, stood up, with like two bags, and he walked toward the back of the theater and he pulled out like a hatchet and started attacking this family, and then he pulled out a gun. And we all ran out of the theater."

The caller, whose name has not been released by police, said the suspect was wearing baggy, "dingy looking" clothing. Sirens - presumably those from first-responding officers who were already in the area - can be heard in the call.

Police said late Wednesday that the suspect was Vincente David Montano, 29. They said he carried with him a hatchet, a fake gun that shoots plastic BBs and two backpacks. Within 41 minutes of entering the theater, police had confronted the suspect twice and then shot and killed him. Three civilians in the theater suffered minor injuries when Montano sprayed them with pepper spray and wounded one with the hatchet, police said.

On Thursday morning, police cars guarded all corners of the theater. Crime scene tape surrounded most of the mall parking lot around the Carmike Hickory 8 theater.

According to a police statement released Wednesday night, South Precinct Officer Jonathan Frith, a six-year veteran, was the first officer to encounter Montano as he entered the auditorium showing the movie.

"Montano pointed his pistol at Frith and pulled the trigger, prompting Frith to fire one round from his patrol rifle in defense of himself," police said. "Frith then backed out of the theater and worked to keep Montano contained inside as SWAT officers responded."

Story continues below audio

Police said Montano was then suspected of filling the theater with chemical spray that police were calling pepper spray Wednesday.

Police said officers who entered the theater reported encountering a cloud of the chemical spray. The statement said Montano engaged SWAT officers inside the theater for several minutes, pulling the trigger of what turned out to be an Airsoft pistol that resembled a semi-automatic pistol. Police released a photo of the Airsoft pistol Wednesday afternoon.

Police said the pop of Montano's gun sounded like a small caliber pistol, and that four SWAT members fired.

Police said the satchel Montano carried over his chest contained a hoax explosive device and was rendered safe by the MNPD's Hazardous Devices Unit.

"Montano, wearing a surgical mask, ultimately attempted to flee out the rear door of the theater," police said. "As he emerged with ax in hand and started toward officers, five opened fire. Montano was hit and died at the scene, 41 minutes after officers were first made aware of the attack on theater-goers."

SWAT officers who fired on Montano in the theater are identified as:

Special Response Team/SWAT Sgt. Jason Duncan, an 18-year police department veteran;

East Precinct/SWAT Lt. Jeff Sanders, a 20-year police department veteran;

Special Response Team/SWAT Officer Jonathan Frost, a 9-year police department veteran;

SWAT Officer Brian Gregory, a 13-year police department veteran.

Officers who had taken up position at the rear of the theater and fired on Montano as he emerged with ax in hand are identified as:

South Precinct Officer Steven Carrick, a 2-year police department veteran;

North Precinct Officer Justin Fox, a 16-year police department veteran;

South Precinct undercover Detective Lee Davis, a 4-year police department veteran;

South Precinct undercover Detective Kevin Choklad, a 3-year police department veteran;

North Precinct Officer Michael Parman, an 8-year police department veteran.

The officers who fired their weapons are on routine administrative assignment pending completion of the preliminary investigation.

Montano's identification was confirmed through his fingerprints, which were compared to those taken during a 2004 arrest in Murfreesboro, police said. He is believed to have been homeless and police are researching his background.

Montano had no arrest history in Nashville, but was charged with assault and resisting arrest in Murfreesboro 11 years ago.

Police reported Wednesday that he had mental health issues and was committed to an institution at least three times while residing in Murfreesboro. He is reported to have lived in a number of states over the years, including Missouri, Texas, Alabama, Illinois, and Florida.

Staff writer Natalie Neysa Alund contributed to this report.