POWHATAN – The Powhatan County Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office announced last week charges will not be pressed against a Powhatan County sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed a 71-year-old man in August.

Based on witness statements, lab reports and physical evidence recovered from the scene during an investigation by Virginia State Police, Richard "Dickie" Cox, commonwealth’s attorney, said on Thursday, Nov. 19 that he had found the law enforcement officers involved acted appropriately based on the threat presented to them at the time of the fatal shooting of Franklin M. Short, 71, of Powhatan.

Short died on the night of Monday, Aug. 3 at his home in the 2100 block of Urbine Road.

Cox said he has met with Short’s family and he extends condolences to them on their loss as well as the law enforcement personnel involved in this tragic incident.

The investigation is now closed and no further action will be taken by the commonwealth’s attorney’s office concerning this matter, he said.

"The investigation by the Virginia State Police found no wrongdoing and that the officers had acted consistent with police training and procedure in this circumstance," Cox said.

Powhatan County sheriff Greg Neal declined to release the name of the deputy involved in the shooting or those of two other law enforcements officers who were present at the time.

The deputy who fired the shots was put on administrative leave during the investigation. Neal said the deputy is back on duty and is doing OK.

"Obviously he hated it. None of us want to go out and do that. The deputy was just put in an unfortunate position," Neal said.

Cox met with several of Short’s family members on Nov. 19 to tell them the findings of the case. Lisa Lafoon of Powhatan, one of Short’s daughters, said the situation still doesn’t make sense to her. She said she knew her dad as a good man who worked hard all his life and would do anything for his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

Lafoon said she has too many unanswered questions about what led to her dad being in the condition he was before officers arrived, but she believes that once they became involved, the deputy who shot her father did what he had to do in that situation.

"I personally don’t blame the officer. I know he had to go home to his family and he didn’t know what the situation was. All he knew was daddy had a gun," she said.

After Shirley, Short’s wife of 47 years, died in 2011, he missed her terribly, Lafoon said.

"I know Daddy is in a better place and he is where he wanted to be. He wasn’t happy without Mama. I believe with all my heart they are together now," she said.

She added that she appreciates how supportive the community has been of her family.

The night of the shooting

Based on the investigation by the state police through interviews with witnesses and the examination of physical evidence, Cox laid out a timeline of what happened on the night of the shooting.

At about 9:30 p.m. on Aug. 3, the Powhatan County Sheriff’s Office received a call through its 911 dispatch system to respond to the address on Urbine Road, Cox said. The caller advised that a physical altercation was in progress between Short and his daughter (not Lafoon). The caller further relayed that Short was armed with a handgun and was intoxicated.

Within five minutes, a state trooper and two Powhatan deputies arrived on the scene, Cox said. After briefly speaking with the man who called 911 at the end of the driveway of the residence, the officers advanced to the home, Cox said.

As the officers got to the screened porch on the front of the residence, they encountered the daughter on the porch, he said.

"The daughter appeared to have blood on her and was asked to come off the porch. When asked, the daughter confirmed that Frank Short was inside and armed with a firearm," Cox said.

He said the officers directed the daughter to leave the immediate area for safety reasons as they continued their investigation. The officers did not enter the porch but gave commands for Short to exit the house and come to the porch, he said.

"Within one to two minutes Mr. Short came out onto the porch area carrying a rifle with a scope. Once observed with the firearm, Short was given several commands to drop the weapon from the officer at the front door of the porch only a few feet from Mr. Short," Cox said.

One of the deputies had approached on the side of the porch by way of a wheelchair ramp and was observing Short from his position within about 10 feet, Cox said. Short turned his attention to the deputy on the ramp at that time and raised the rifle toward him in a firing position, at which time the deputy on the ramp fired three shots into his shoulder area. Short immediately fell to the ground.

Aid was immediately rendered to Short by police and medical personnel, but he died at the scene, Cox said. It was determined that the rifle Short possessed at the time of the shooting was not loaded but was a functional firearm.

A toxicology report by the medical examiner indicated that Short’s blood alcohol level was more than twice the legal limit at the time this incident occurred and reported the presence of medications used to treat pain and depression, Cox said.

During the investigation, state police learned the blood on the daughter’s clothing belonged to Short, Cox said. The daughter told the officers Short had been scratched during a struggle with her over a handgun she was trying to take away from him, Cox said. It was the same handgun mentioned in the 911 call.

The daughter told officers she managed to get the handgun away from Short and hide it, Cox said. The handgun was found by law enforcement and it was loaded, he said.

The state police determined that there was no wrongdoing on the part of the daughter or the caller during the investigation, Cox said.

In the weeks after the shooting, some members of Short’s family questioned whether lethal force was truly necessary. They said that Short was deaf in one ear, hard of hearing in the other and only had one eye, so they wondered if he was even aware officers were telling him to put down the firearm.

Cox said that while Short may have suffered from some sight or hearing impairments, it was determined he had a valid Virginia operator’s license and these defects would not have impaired his ability to understand the commands given to him by the officer on the scene to drop the weapon.

About a week after the shooting, Cox said he would not make any determination on the case until he had all of the evidence from the state police because he wanted to make a good decision, not just a fast one. In regard to the three and a half month timeframe, he said he and Neal reviewed the timeline of a similar case and found the turnaround was about the same.

"We are in a society where we want the answer yesterday. I have said before this was going to be done right and it was," Cox said.