The suspect in a fatal deputy-involved shooting who told officers he would kill them has been identified by San Diego County Sheriff's Department officials.

Vista resident Daniel Robert Avila, 55, died yesterday after an incident that began on the Las Pulgas Road off ramp by Camp Pendleton Tuesday, the Orange County Sheriff's Department (OCSD) officials said.

The incident happened at 12:09 p.m. off southbound Interstate 5 when an OCSD deputy found a man in distress, acting strangely in a car pulled over on Las Pulgas Road, according to San Diego County Sheriff's Lt. John Maryon.

When the deputy approached Avila, he started aggressively pointing at the deputy and yelling.

"At some point, [he] said, 'I have a weapon. I'm going to kill you and I'm going to kill myself,'" said Maryon.

The deputy immediately retreated back to his patrol vehicle and called in backup from fellow deputies and Border Patrol agents.

An hourlong standoff ensued, as the man said he had a gun pointed at the deputy's stomach and threatened to kill him, according to the lieutenant.

Finally, when Avila emerged from his car, he "had his right arm extended with something black — some sort of black material — wrapped around his hand, extending it as if it was a weapon," said Maryon.

A deputy shot a bean bag round at the suspect's stomach, but the man continued to point his arm in their direction.

Three OCSD deputies and two Border Patrol agents then fired their guns, killing Avila. No weapon has been found on him, according to Maryon.

The lieutenant said the suspect claimed to suffer from PTSD related to his time in the military.

During the standoff, Maryon said the man made statements that he is being accused of killing his parents. However, investigators confirmed that both of his parents are alive.

The off ramp at Las Pulgas Road just west of I-5 was closed as officials investigated.

Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call the Homicide Detail at (858) 974-2321 or (858) 565-5200 for after hours contact.

If you would like to remain anonymous, you can call Crime Stoppers at (888) 580-8477. You may be eligible for a $1,000 reward.