Richmond’s top prosecutor said he will not seek charges against the police officers involved in an August shooting that left a man dead and an officer wounded.

Commonwealth’s Attorney Michael N. Herring will not present the facts of the case to a grand jury, he said. Herring based his decision on his analysis of a report prepared by the Richmond Police Department’s force-investigation team.

“There was nothing in the ... report that caused me to think the public ought to be concerned about police behavior vis-à-vis this case,” he said. “Nothing at all.”

Even though Keshawn D. Hargrove, 20, was shot in the back, he was the aggressor, Herring said. Hargrove drew his weapon, fired it and hit an officer before being shot himself, Herring said.

Witnesses’ recollection of events supported the police on important points, Herring said.

“There were a number of civilian witnesses interviewed, and ... although they were not perfectly consistent, they corroborated the version of police in just about every significant way,” he said.

Police had been called to the area of West Cary and South Meadow streets just after 5:20 p.m. Aug. 5 to investigate reports of an armed man in the area. When officers approached Hargrove, he fled down the alley that runs parallel to and just south of Cary Street, police said. The chase quickly turned into a gunfight with police.

At the time, a witness told the Richmond Times-Dispatch that he saw Hargrove firing over his shoulder while running from police.

Officer Ryan Bailey was shot through the arm. Hargrove was shot and killed by officer Jacob DeBoard, Bailey’s colleague.

The investigation determined that Hargrove fired at least four shots from a 9 mm handgun that was recovered less than 10 feet from his body. Police fired 14 shots; one hit Hargrove.

“It really wasn’t the police that escalated this; it was Hargrove,” Herring said. “I think folks expect the police to exercise restraint but to apply proportional force when confronted by threats.”

Police Chief Alfred Durham praised Herring’s decision in a written statement.

“Today’s decision by Mr. Herring not to file charges against the officers is the result of a fair, impartial and independent investigation conducted by the Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office,” he said.

In the aftermath of the shooting, some community members expressed outrage. DeBoard is white and Hargrove was black, but Durham said at the time that the shooting was not racially motivated. Bailey is black.

“This is not Ferguson,” Durham said at the time, referring to the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by a white officer last year in Ferguson, Mo., that sparked protests and nationwide scrutiny of police officers’ treatment of blacks.

Durham said in his statement Thursday that Herring’s decision showed how important it was for people to wait for all the facts to come in rather than rushing to judgment.

The two officers involved in the shooting will remain on administrative leave while the department completes its own investigation, Durham said.

Durham also said the shooting had a deep effect on all those involved.

“Regardless of today’s decision, my officers and the family members of Hargrove will be forever impacted by the events that took place on the day of the shooting,” he said in his statement.

Hargrove’s criminal record included a malicious wounding conviction for shooting a teenage girl when he was 15.

Man fatally shot by Richmond police had record of violent offenses, court records show Keshawn D. Hargrove, then 15, confessed to shooting a teenage girl and was sentenced to five years behind bars in 2010.

Police: Man shot by police in South Richmond domestic call refused to drop weapon An armed man shot and wounded by a Richmond police officer who responded to a domestic call …