A Greenfield man was killed Wednesday night in an officer-involved shooting. The shooting happened at 89th Street and Waterford Avenue, between Howard Avenue and Cold Spring Road, at the Briawick apartments. Watch the video report on mobileJohn H. Dieringer, 51, was killed in the confrontation with police. Officers were called to the Briarwick apartments at about 4:15 p.m. Wednesday for a man in distress on his balcony.Greenfield Police Chief Brad Wentlandt said trained officers tried to talk Dieringer down for an hour and a half, but without success. Police said Dieringer made suicidal statements and tossed a suicide note to the officers.Believing he was not armed, officers went into the apartment to arrest him, but Dieringer took out a knife and tried to stab an officer.Greenfield Officer Charles Mehlberg shot at Dieringer. "It's a very tragic situation. Any loss of life is tragic, but our officer did what he had to do to protect his fellow officers on the scene,” Wentlandt said.The Greenfield officer is a two-year veteran of the force. He was not injured. The victim has not yet been identified. The Milwaukee Police Department is leading the investigation.

A Greenfield man was killed Wednesday night in an officer-involved shooting.

The shooting happened at 89th Street and Waterford Avenue, between Howard Avenue and Cold Spring Road, at the Briawick apartments.

Advertisement

Watch the video report on mobile

John H. Dieringer, 51, was killed in the confrontation with police.

Officers were called to the Briarwick apartments at about 4:15 p.m. Wednesday for a man in distress on his balcony.

Greenfield Police Chief Brad Wentlandt said trained officers tried to talk Dieringer down for an hour and a half, but without success. Police said Dieringer made suicidal statements and tossed a suicide note to the officers.

Believing he was not armed, officers went into the apartment to arrest him, but Dieringer took out a knife and tried to stab an officer.

Greenfield Officer Charles Mehlberg shot at Dieringer.

"It's a very tragic situation. Any loss of life is tragic, but our officer did what he had to do to protect his fellow officers on the scene,” Wentlandt said.



The Greenfield officer is a two-year veteran of the force. He was not injured.

The victim has not yet been identified.

The Milwaukee Police Department is leading the investigation.



