Daniel Borunda

El Paso Times

Charles E. Bertram died Aug. 6 during a confrontation with El Paso police.

An autopsy report stated Bertram shot himself in the chest.

An autopsy determined that a man shot and killed himself during a confrontation with El Paso police in the Lower Dyer area last month.

El Paso County Medical Examiner Dr. Mario A. Rascon declared that Charles E. Bertram, 22, fatally shot himself in the chest, according to an autopsy report obtained Friday.

“The manner of death is suicide,” the autopsy report states.

Bertram died Aug. 6 after allegedly taking out a handgun during a traffic stop in the 4000 block of Dyer Street, El Paso police officials had said.

Police officials had said that the officer and Bertram both fired their guns. The number of rounds fired has not been disclosed. The officer was not injured.

The autopsy report states that Bertram had three gunshot wounds — a grazing wound to the right groin, a remote gunshot wound to the back and a wound to the chest.

“This 22-year-old man, Charles E. Bertram, died of a gunshot wound of the chest,” the autopsy report states. “According to reports, the decedent shot himself with a handgun during a violent encounter with law enforcement.

“Autopsy revealed an intermediate range gunshot wound of the chest that perforated the heart,” the report states.

The autopsy report says that the chest bullet “wound track travels from the decedent’s front to back, left to right and neither upwards or downwards.” Gunpowder stippling, which occurs when a gun is fired close to the skin, was present, the report states.

The autopsy report does not reveal who fired the shots that hit Bertram in the groin and back.

The autopsy also stated that a toxicology test found that Bertram had a blood alcohol level of 0.181, more than twice the legal limit for drivers.

Police spokesman Sgt. Enrique Carrillo said that he could not comment on the autopsy report because an investigation into the death continues. The Police Department has not released the name of the officer involved in the shooting.

“The case is still pending and once complete it will be turned over to the DA’s office,” Carrillo said.

As is standard procedure in El Paso police shootings, the case is under investigation by the Texas Rangers, the El Paso Police Department and the El Paso District Attorney’s Office.

The shooting occurred about 8:20 p.m. Aug. 6 after a patrol officer stopped a car driving without a headlight in the back parking lot of a shopping strip in the 4000 block of Dyer Street, police officials had said.

While the officer was talking to a person out of the car, Bertram allegedly took out a gun and during the confrontation gunshots were fired, police officials had said.

According to El Paso County Jail records, Bertram had been arrested 18 times since 2011 on charges including aggravated assault, driving while intoxicated, drug possession and traffic warrants.

A security camera video posted online by the owner of Player’s Sports Bar & Grill showed a man, believed to be Bertram, appear to reach into the car and grab something during the traffic stop in a parking lot behind the bar.

The officer then appears to have his gun pointed at the man.

The man begins to back away, jerks back and then turns around and runs away from the officer, who chases him. The man and the officer run out of view of the camera.

Bertram died in a neighboring parking lot.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at 546-6102; dborunda@elpasotimes.com; @BorundaDaniel on Twitter.