Patrick Brennan, Henry Molski, and Cameron Knight

Cincinnati

Terry Waltz knew the little girl who was pounding her fists against his door pleading for help, but he didn't know what was waiting for him inside the girl's home next door.

"You've got to help, he's killing my mom," Waltz recalled the girl saying.

He joined other relatives and neighbors who had responded to help at his next-door neighbor's house.

Waltz said the girl's parents were fighting in the bathroom. After getting their two daughters, ages 4 and 7, behind him to safety, Waltz was able force the door of the bathroom open.

"When I saw him stabbing her with a knife, I shut the door and got everybody out of the house," he said.

Waltz asked his aunt to call 911, and took the young sisters away from the scene.

An Elsmere police officer would later shoot and kill Gustavo Ponce-Galon. After being taken to the hospital, Maribel Angeles Garcia would die from the injuries she sustained in the fight, authorities said.

Officers responded to 159 Seneca Trail in the Heartland Pointe mobile home park at about 7:45 p.m., said Kentucky State Police Lt. Rick Saint-Blancard.

When police got to the home, Ponce-Galon, 42, was armed with a knife, according to KSP.

An officer gave Ponce-Galon multiple commands to drop it, but Ponce-Galon refused to comply, KSP officials said. After several minutes, Ponce-Galon charged at the officer with his knife.

Ponce-Galon was shot to death by the officer, who has not been identified.

After the shooting, police found Garcia, 34, with life-threatening injuries, police said.

She died after she was taken to University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Saint-Blancard said.

"As soon as (police) got there, they were telling the man to put the knife down," Waltz said. "He didn't comply with the officers and they shot him."

Waltz said he believes the shooting was justified, but is shocked by what happened.

"He was a good neighbor. I would have never suspected anything like this in my life from him," he said.

Waltz remembers grilling out with the family and doesn't recall ever hearing them fight in the past.

He watched social services come to the scene Thursday night after the shooting and take custody of the sisters.

"It just breaks my heart with those kids," he said, his voice cracking. "I just don't know what I would do if it was something like that with my kid."

Heartland Pointe is unaccustomed to violence. Even Friday, less than 24 hours after the shooting, the streets were filled with children on bikes.

As cars entered the community after the work day, two women with a baby and a few other children offered the drivers Kool-Aid for 50 cents a cup.

"It's pretty hard because you never even hear these kinds of things happening around here," Waltz said. "It's a suburb."

Waltz said officers told him that it has been years since Elsmere police were involved in a shooting. Elsmere police officer David Byrd shot and killed Michael Godawa in 2012 during a confrontation in front of a bar on Dixie Highway. Body camera and surveillance footage was presented in a wrongful death suit. Byrd was cleared of any wrongdoing.

"I think they did a great job as far as handling the situation," Waltz said. "They had to get to the wife and he was blocking the way and they did what they had to do to get to her to try to save her."

"It's like a horror scene, something you could never imagine," he said. "It was pretty hard for everybody, even the police."

Kenton County officials rejected The Enquirer's open records requests for 911 and dispatch calls and an incident report Friday morning.

Officials from several departments responded to the shooting, and the investigation at the home continued at least until 2 a.m. Friday, police said.