Derrick Lee Hunt, a 28-year-old black man, died after an officer-involved shooting Friday, Aug. 7, in the 3200 block of East Artesia Boulevard, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

The incident began about 8:17 p.m., when Long Beach Police officers received a call about a stabbing in progress involving multiple victims in the Artesia Courts apartment complex, according to a department news release.

Officers found that a man, later identified as Hunt, had allegedly stabbed his 29-year-old wife, her 25-year-old brother and a 24-year-old neighbor, who lived near them in the complex, the release said.

Hunt then allegedly left the complex and entered a convalescent home on the south side of the street, where he allegedly stabbed three female employees, ages 23, 24 and 33.

Frightened residents helped officers locate Hunt. Witnesses told The Times that Hunt did not obey officers' commands to put down his weapon. Instead, he allegedly advanced on the officers and was shot multiple times.

Hunt was pronounced dead at the scene at 8:33 p.m. by Long Beach Fire Department paramedics, according to coroner's records.

Five of the six stabbing victims were taken to a local hospital, where they were treated for their wounds and are in stable condition, according to the news release. The sixth victim was treated at the scene for superficial wounds, according to the release.

Investigators recovered a 12-inch kitchen knife from the scene.

Long Beach police thanked the many residents who helped officers quickly find Hunt once they arrived.

"People were in fear, obviously, of what this guy was doing," Sgt. Megan Zabel said. "I can't even imagine what those poor people were going through."

Hunt's sister, Shawntris Leake, told ABC 7 that her brother did not have a history of mental illness, and questioned the need to shoot him.

Hunt had been released from prison two weeks earlier, Leake said in the newscast, "but that's irrelevant. He was a good father to his sons, a good brother and a good friend. They could have used other tactics to take him down. It didn't take a bullet."

The coroner's office has deferred ruling on Hunt's cause of death until it completes toxicology tests.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Long Beach Police Homicide Detail at (562) 570-7244. Those wishing to remain anonymous should call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477.

-- Jeanette Marantos and Javier Panzar