A man is dead after allegedly shooting at his own brother and then an officer

BROOKSHIRE, TX (KTRK) -- A suspect is dead following an officer-involved shooting in Brookshire on Saturday.

It happened a little before 4pm. Roderick Burr, 33, was killed, shot several times in his front yard by a Brookshire police officer.

"His brother was out there yelling, 'Y'all shot my brother. Y'll shot my brother,'" said neighbor Mary Rae.

"I heard about eight to ten (shots)," added neighbor Chrishell Samsmurray. "It was like a pistol and an M-16. I came out and I saw a police officer holding a gun."

Neighbors called police just before 4pm, saying two brothers who live across the street from each other were fighting. One brother, they said, had a gun.

Witnesses say he fired a couple of shots before the officer got there. When officers arrived, police say Burr fired at them.

What happened next was displayed on the patrol unit.

"Our officer didn't have a chance to retreat, so he fired several shots through the windshield of his vehicle at the suspect," said Chief Brandal Jackson with the Brookshire Police Department. "At that time, the officer then exited his vehicle, went around and grabbed his AR-15 and fired several more shots. The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene."

Police say they found a .38 caliber revolver next to Burr. His body has been taken in for an autopsy.

Meanwhile, the officer, who hasn't been identified, is on administrative leave. He is a three-year veteran with the Brookshire Police Department and a member of the SWAT team. He and other officers there are well aware of the national attention currently on Waller County and law enforcement. This comes just 27 days after Sandra Bland died in a Waller County Jail.

"He was hesitant to fire back at the suspect and that's one of the things we don't want our officers to start doing but because all the things going on," said Chief Jackson. "It's one of the things that our officers here are actually dealing with."

Police say Burr's girlfriend told them that just Friday night, he had pulled a gun on her.

The officer who shot Burr hasn't been identified. He's been put on administrative leave, which is standard during an investigation.