Diane Turbyfill

dturbyfill@shelbystar.com

A former police officer was killed Saturday night and his suspected killer was then gunned down by police in a shootout that also injured two Gaston County police officers, according to police.

Gaston County police officers found the body of Charles Dean Thompson inside a home at 4621 Balsam Court after receiving a 911 call at 9:18 p.m.

When officers arrived at Greenwood Drive, they were confronted outside by Jeffrey Clyde Wilkes, according to police.

Wilkes was allegedly holding a shotgun and wearing a pistol. Gunfire was exchanged between Wilkes and four to seven officers, according to police. Two officers were wounded, and Wilkes was killed.

Thompson retired from the Gaston County Police Department in 1995 after five years of service.

Woman shot

Debra Maness Childress was also shot in the incident. Childress lived at 4908 Greenwood Drive with Wilkes.

Officers found her at a neighbor’s house where she had fled after being shot by Wilkes at the Balsam Court address, according to police.

All of the wounded were taken to CaroMont Regional Medical Center.

One of the officers has since been released from the hospital, while the other underwent surgery Sunday.

Calls for help

A son called 911 to tell emergency operators that a man had shot his dad, and the shooter was still inside the home, according to police.

Several other 911 callers described an “active shooter.” When police arrived they reported being confronted by Wilkes outside near the intersection of Greenwood Drive and Merrywood Lane.

“Upon arrival officers were confronted with a suspect who was armed. That suspect engaged officers. Two officers were shot. They have non life-threatening injuries. The suspect shooter was shot and killed by officers,” said Acting Chief Joe Ramey with Gaston County Police.

Ongoing investigation

The names of the officers have not been released, and all are on paid administrative leave, a routine practice in such cases. Gaston County Police have called in the SBI to assist in the investigation.

The two injured officers were shot in their “lower extremities,” according to Ramey.

Ramey said it was too early in the investigation to say what led up to the shooting. He would not say whether the two men knew one another. He would not talk about either man's relationship with Childress.

Police said no other details will be released until Monday.

10 to 15 shots

Dozens of people were milling around the convenience store hours after the shooting.

Nikki Moore, 23, works as a clerk at the Kingsway gas station and convenience store and described the two men and woman as regular customers, calling them by their first names.

Moore said police parked their cars at the Kingsway and took rifles out of their trunks when they first arrived in the area. Officers told her and customers to remain in the store, she said.

“We heard about 10 to 15 rounds shot. It was wild, that's for sure,” Moore said. “Boom, boom, boom.”

Moore said she believes the man fired at police before officers returned gun fire.

“I was scared. I didn't know what was happening,” Moore said. She added that she would be praying for the families involved.

Reporter Diane Turbyfill contributed to this report.