A man who was shot by a Waco police officer after allegedly trying to steal $80 worth of brisket from a North Waco H-E-B store and pulling a knife on two officers died Tuesday night.

Randall Lance Hughes, 48, of Waco, was pronounced dead by Justice of the Peace W.H. “Pete” Peterson at Baylor Scott & White Hillcrest Medical Center about 8:30 p.m., police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton said.

Police were called to the grocery store at North 19th Street and Park Lake Drive at 3:20 p.m. Tuesday after Hughes allegedly tried to steal the meat, Swanton said.

Hughes was detained in the store and was being held in about a 10-foot-by-10-foot security room by the officers and an H-E-B loss-prevention specialist when officers moved to arrest him and he pulled out a knife, Swanton said. Hughes allegedly brandished a Smith & Wesson Extreme Ops folding knife toward the officers. Such knives have blades measuring just over 3 inches long.

A female officer pulled out a Taser as a male officer pulled out his handgun, Swanton said, and at one point the two scuffled with Hughes. Swanton said the Taser was ineffective and did not subdue Hughes, leading the male officer to fire “at least two rounds.”

Hughes suffered at least two gunshot wounds to the upper torso, Swanton said. Peterson ordered his body sent for autopsy.

The officers called for backup and emergency medical personnel about 3:40 p.m., immediately after the shooting, according to the sergeant.

Swanton said the involved officers were removed from the scene Tuesday and immediately placed on administrative leave while the department investigates the incident through two parallel probes.

Swanton said the department will be looking into the shooting through criminal and internal investigations, adding that the Texas Rangers will assist in what he called a “joint” investigation.

“In light of what’s going on across the country, we obviously want our citizens to feel comfortable with how we’re handling things,” Swanton said.

“We have one of the most experienced officer-involved shooting investigators in the county in our department,” he noted, adding that the investigator is a supervisor removed from either officer present during Tuesday’s shooting.

“Our officers were forced by the suspect to use their weapons,” Swanton said Tuesday. “He made that choice to pull a knife.”

No bystanders, officers or H-E-B employees were injured in the incident.

According to county records, Hughes was sentenced to 18 months in a state jail for felony theft in 2013.

He was placed on misdemeanor probation in 2013 after a DWI conviction. His probation was revoked the same year, and he was sentenced to 80 days in the county jail after his arrest for misdemeanor theft and driving with an invalid license.

Staff writer Tommy Witherspoon contributed to this story.