Jim Walsh

The Republic | azcentral.com

A Gilbert motorcycle officer shot the driver of a car to death Monday morning after the driver attempted to run him over during a traffic stop, according to police.

Police identified the driver late Monday afternoon as Richard Tyler Young, 24.

Sgt. Jesse Sanger, a police spokesman, said the motorcycle officer stopped Young shortly after 9:30 a.m. for speeding in a school zone in front of Patterson Elementary School.

At first, Young cooperated, parking his vehicle as instructed in an empty church parking lot near Guadalupe Road and Val Vista Drive, with the vehicle facing a block wall to prevent forward movement, Sanger said.

But while the officer was completing a citation, he noticed the driver "making suspicious movements inside his vehicle,'' according to Sanger.

When the officer approached the driver's side of the vehicle, Young threw it into reverse, striking the officer with his front fender, knocking the officer to the ground, Sanger said. The vehicle continued in reverse, striking the officer's motorcycle.

Sanger said Young then accelerated toward the officer. Fearing for his life, Sanger said, the officer shot the driver as he accelerated toward him. The vehicle continued across Guadalupe Road, striking a block wall.

The name of the officer involved in the fatal shooting was not released by police.

"It's very uncommon'' for a Gilbert officer to be involved in a fatal shooting, Sanger said. He said he can remember only one fatal officer-involved shooting in the past two decades. It occurred Feb. 25, 2014, when police shot and killed Harold Lynn Phelps, 57, a bank-robbery suspect, in the parking lot of an apartment complex at Crismon and Broadway Roads in a county island east of Mesa.

Police said at that time that two officers fired at Phelps in response to "a lethal threat from the suspect,'' who was armed with a gun. The robbery occurred at a bank in Gilbert, but police said Phelps committed a carjacking in Mesa during the course of his getaway.

Republic reporters Ben Margiott and Abigail Golder contributed to this report.

RELATED: 2015 officer-involved shootings