SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/14/2015, pg. A4)

Stories about the Aug. 9 officer-involved fatal shooting of Edrian Rivera included incorrect information provided by San Jose Police about Rivera’s record. He was on parole for attempted second-degree murder.



SAN JOSE — Officials have identified the officers and armed suspects involved in separate police shootings in San Jose on Sunday and Monday that ended with both suspects dead, one by officers’ gunfire and the other by his own hand.

This is the city’s fifth and sixth officer-involved shootings of the year, with three of them being fatal. Last year five officer-involved shootings were recorded, two of them fatal.

The first deadly encounter originated around 6:20 p.m. Sunday when police responded to South 34th Street and Virginia Avenue in East San Jose after receiving reports of a stabbing. They found a seriously injured man, who was rushed to the hospital and is in critical condition.

A suspect was seen driving away in a vehicle, which he abandoned less than a mile away at Kammerer and Sunset avenues after colliding with several cars, police said. Two officers in the specialized METRO unit spotted him and gave chase, one on foot and the other in an unmarked police car.

They got to Packing Place just off San Antonio Street, where the police car cut off the suspect’s running path. This started a confrontation between the officers and the suspect, who was reportedly holding a meat cleaver, police said. Witnesses told this newspaper that the man raised his arm and yelled obscenities at the officers, and police said the man menaced them with the blade.

Officers opened fire, hitting and killing the man, who has been identified as Edrian Rivera, 22, of San Jose, police said. Initially police said he was on parole for second-degree murder at the time of the shooting. He was in fact on parole for attempted second-degree murder.

The officers who fired their weapons were identified as Adam Dorn, who has been with San Jose police for eight years, and Timothy Faye, 12-year police veteran.

That shooting was followed about six hours later, just after midnight, after police were called to the 1300 block of San Marcos Drive in North San Jose by a woman who reported that her brother had shown up drunk, brandishing a handgun and shotgun, and threatening to harm himself.

Police said two patrol officers saw the man cock the shotgun and heard him threaten them. The officers opened fire but missed, police said. The man dropped the weapon and went into the home, where police reported hearing a single gunshot “almost immediately.”

The MERGE (SWAT) unit responded, and after hours of trying to contact the man inside, entered the home around 6 a.m. and reportedly found 30-year-old Aaron James “A.J.” Phillips dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. A handgun was found near him, police said.

The officers who shot at Phillips were identified as Christopher Bergstrom, a nine-year member of the force, and Tyler Scott Moran, who has been on for two-and-a-half years.

All the officers who fired their weapons in the two confrontations were placed on paid administrative leave amid internal investigations monitored by the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office, which is routine after officer-involved shootings.

Contact Robert Salonga at 408-920-5002. Follow him at Twitter.com/robertsalonga.