The man who robbed a South Windsor bank and led police on a chase into Bolton, where officers shot and seriously wounded him, died of his wounds Sunday night, state police said.

Christopher T. Anderson, 53, whose most recent address was on Capitol Avenue in Hartford, suffered massive internal injuries when bullets pierced his torso Friday afternoon, police said. He had been in critical condition at Hartford Hospital.

Anderson, who has a record of robbing banks and was shot by New Haven police nine years ago, led a South Windsor officer on an 11-mile chase that began at the First Niagara Bank branch on Buckland Road. As the chase continued through Manchester, officers there joined the chase. State troopers from the Colchester barracks were waiting in Bolton as the chase headed there. It ended on Route 44 in Bolton, just east of the Route 6/Route 44 split.

During the chase, speeds reached 80 mph at one point.

Police said Anderson was armed with a box cutter and charged officers. A Manchester officer fired a Taser at him, but Anderson tore the probes from his body, police said. A state trooper and a rookie Manchester officer then shot him multiple times.

Anderson’s body was transferred to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, where an autopsy was to be performed. Police said their investigation into the case continues.

South Windsor police said Monday they would examine the circumstances of the pursuit to determine whether Officer Ben White followed department policies.

Police in West Hartford and Berlin are working to determine whether Anderson was responsible for recent bank robberies they are investigating.

White was near the bank at the South Windsor Super Stop & Shop doing followup on another case when he saw Anderson walk out of the bank, South Windsor police Lt. Scott Custer said.

He “literally walked out in front of him with the bag of money in his hand,” Custer said. “He fit the description perfectly as broadcast by our dispatchers. He ordered him verbally to stop and then he got into the car and began following him on Buckland Road.”

At the end of the chase, White was not involved in the confrontation with Anderson, but went to Anderson’s aid after he’d been shot, Custer said. “After he was shot he administered first aid to him immediately,” Custer said. “We’re very proud of his actions at the scene, as well.”

Trooper Brian Contenta and Manchester Officer Layau Eulizier fired on Anderson, state police said. Anderson was hit at least twice.

Anderson was previously shot and seriously wounded in 2006 by New Haven police SWAT officers after a standoff at a New Haven townhouse, according to state police. He was a suspect in a bank robbery that occurred earlier that day in New Haven.

He was convicted of the New Haven bank robbery and three others in nearby Woodbridge in June 2007, and sentenced to 12 years in prison, suspended after he served seven years, and five years of probation. When Anderson was sentenced, he was ordered to undergo alcohol and drug treatment.

The state Department of Correction said it released Anderson in November 2012.