SUNNYVALE — A San Diego man who was shot and killed Saturday afternoon by a Sunnyvale police officer was armed with two loaded handguns and ignored commands to drop the weapon following a brief foot chase, according to the Sunnyvale Department of Public Safety.

Police on Monday released more details about the fatal officer-involved shooting that left 23-year-old Allen Matthew Baker III dead, including the revelation that a man who eluded officers may be wanted in Fresno County on suspicion of murder.

Both men took off from a motel when police approached. One of them led an officer on a foot pursuit into bushes near a commercial complex on San Aleso Avenue, according to police. There the officer came face-to-face with the suspect — identified later as Baker — holding a handgun, according to Capt. Jeffrey Hunter.

The officer, an 18-year veteran with Sunnyvale police, ordered Baker to drop the gun, Hunter said. The man began to point the gun at the officer, who then fired nine shots at the suspect, Hunter said.

“The officer confronted the suspect in the bushes at less than 10 feet and ordered him to drop the weapon,” Hunter said. “The suspect made a motion and pointed the firearm toward the officer, and the officer opened fire.”

Hunter said police have not determined if Baker fired any shots at the officer, whose name was not released.

The incident began at 4 p.m. Saturday when police received a call about suspicious activity at the Motel 6 on Ahwanee Avenue, possibly involving a minor.

The caller told police a girl and a woman had rented a room and were going back and forth from the room to the back seat of a black Jaguar sedan in the parking lot. The caller told police at least one man was inside the Jaguar.

When officers arrived and contacted three men inside the Jaguar, two of them fled on foot, Hunter said. One of the men — Baker — fled south through the parking lot and then east across San Aleso. As he ran, a high-capacity magazine with ammunition fell onto the street.

A patrol officer spotted Baker, got out of his car and began chasing him. The officer followed Baker into bushes, where the shooting took place.

Police say the gun Baker was holding was loaded, and officers found another loaded handgun in a backpack he was carrying.

The second man, who was not captured, fled north on San Aleso into a commercial complex. A short time later police received a 911 call regarding an armed suspect who had run through a home on Ferndale Avenue. That call resulted in several agencies assisting Sunnyvale in a six-hour search of the area.

Police say they have received information that the second suspect may be Shawn Lamont Brown, 19, who has an outstanding warrant out of Fresno County on suspicion of homicide. Police say Brown should be considered armed and dangerous but do not believe he is still in the Sunnyvale area, Hunter said.

Brown and Lachance Larue Thomas, also 19, are wanted in connection with a murder in Fresno that took place July 28, according to the Fresno Bee. Brown and Thomas were previously arrested by Fresno police in the case but released because legal evidence needed in the case could not be processed before a jail hold expired, according to the Bee.

Brown and Thomas have been linked to the slaying of Von Randell Correia, 29, a shooting Fresno police initially said was drug related, according to the Bee.

The man who did not flee Sunnyvale police has been identified as Raymond Deshawn Hackett of Fresno. Hackett has an arrest warrant out of San Diego County for domestic violence related charges, Hunter said.

Hunter added the two women seen getting in and out of the Jaguar were both adults, and all five people were associated. One of the women admitted to being involved with prostitution.

Staff writer Katie Nelson contributed to this report. Contact Mark Gomez at 408-920-5869. Follow him at Twitter.com/markmgomez.