Officer Enrique Amaya #16 supplement report stated that he was engaged on a high speed chase assisting Officer Arriaga that ended up at the Hidalgo, Texas port entry outbound traffic lane. Officer Amaya stated that while driving east on Expressway 83 in unit V-11, he observes Officer Arriaga behind a gray Dodge Ram truck.

Officer Amaya stated that he observed Officer Arriaga to activate the red and blue emergency lights and proceeded after said vehicle. Officer Amaya stated that he observed the Dodge Ram truck to accelerate disregarding Officer Arriaga intention for the traffic stop. Officer Amaya stated that the then activated his patrol unit emergency lights and proceeded with the vehicle pursuit getting after Officer's Arriaga unit. Officer Amaya report stated that the Dodge Ram truck accelerated up to 120 miles per hour driving recklessly through the cities of La Joya, Penitas, Palmview, Mission, McAllen, and Hidalgo, Texas.

Officer Amaya supplement report stated that he observed two young black males getting out the Dodge Ram truck running towards the international bridge into Mexico. Officer Amaya stated that he exited his patrol unit going after the two male subjects while Officer Arriaga and Officer Quijano secures the Dodge Ram truck. Officer Amaya stated that he observed the passenger who was wearing a red t-shirt and blue denim shorts running back towards one of the tollbooths while the other male subject kept running south towards Mexico.

Officer Amaya stated that he proceeded to go after the passenger who ran into one of the toll booths. Officer Amaya report stated that Hidalgo Police Department Officer R. Gonzalez badge #3559 helped secured the subject who was already on the ground. Officer Amaya report stated that he handcuffed the male subject who verbally identifying himself as Jean Charles with a date of birth of 10/23/1993 with an address out of Edinburg, Texas. Officer Amaya report states that Officer Arriaga asked him to place Jean Charles in his unit. Officer Amaya stated that Hidalgo Police Officer Gonzalez help him to place Jean Charles in the back of his patrol unit.

Officer Amaya stated that once Jean Charles was in his patrol unit, Jean Charles told them, don't send me to jail, I will tell you everything I know. Officer Amaya stated that Jean Charles mentions that he was not feeling well and that he wanted to lie down on the back seat of the unit. Officer Amaya report him and picked him back up as he was laying down and sat up in a vertical position and placed the seat belt on. Officer Amaya report stated that the handcuffs were also loosened as he said they were tight. Officer Amaya report stated the suspect told them that he was thirst and Officer Amaya gave him water.

Officer Amaya report stated that after securing the subject Officer Amaya went with Officer Arriaga to check the status of the Dodge Ram truck which was full of marijuana bundles. Officer Amaya report stated that he was to transport Jean Charles back to the La Joya Police Department for booking and processing. Officer Amaya report stated on his way back to La Joya Police Department Jean Charles was complaining about chest pain and not being able to breathe. Officer Amaya report stated that he advised La Joya Communication's Officer Rolando Cantu to have EMS ready at La Joya Police Department to check Jean Charles. Officer Amaya report states that when in rout and in the outer city limits of McAllen, Texas on west Expressway 83, Officer Amaya observed that Jean Charles was unconscious.

Officer Amaya report states that he decided to break from the motorcade and go to the nearest hospital which was Mission Hospital off of Bryan Road in Mission, Texas. Officer Amaya stated that he advised La Joya Communication's Officer Cantu to cancel EMS as he was already in route to the Mission Hospital. Officer Amaya stated that as he pulled up to Mission Hospital Emergency entrance, Officer Amaya opened the back seat door and noticed that Jean Charles was still unconscious. Officer Amaya stated that he went into the automatic doors and yelled to the hospital staff that he had an unconscious subject in his patrol unit.

Officer Amaya report states that after a few seconds one of the staff members came out with a wheelchair. Officer Amaya states that they both placed Jean Charles on the wheelchair where Officer Amaya un-cuffed Jean Charles. Officer Amaya report states that once in the hospital one of the nurses checked his vitals and notified Officer Amaya that Jean Charles was in code blue patient was in cardiopulmonary arrest. Officer Amaya report stated that Jean Charles was pronounced dead by Dr. Arzola at 5:54pm.