Advertisement Man who died in gunfire at church had PTSD, service dog agency says Wade Allen Baker was decorated veteran, family says Share Copy Link Copy

A man who died in gunfire in a North Carolina church had Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, according to the agency who provided his service dog.Wade Allen Baker, 44, of Clyde, North Carolina, died Wednesday afternoon after an exchange of gunfire with police. Multiple law enforcement agencies responded to a 911 call claiming that four people had been shot at about 3:15 p.m. Wednesday at Maple Grove Baptist Church on Stamey Cove Road in Waynesville.To hear the 911 call, click here.Sgt. Heidi Warren of the Haywood County Sheriff’s Office said a man, later identified as Baker, was alone in the church when law enforcement crews arrived. He exchanged gunfire with the officers, she said. Investigators did not say if it was Baker who had made the 911 call.The SBI said Thursday that Baker was pronounced dead at the scene. No one else was injured in the gunfire. Officials have not said who fired the shot that killed Baker, but the Sheriff's Office did say that a senior deputy has been put on paid administrative leave during the SBI investigation, which is "in accordance with the agency's standard policies and procedures."Baker's family said he had a long, highly decorated history of service to the country.Paws & Effect, a service dog provider in Des Moines, Iowa, posted a statement on their website saying: “On Wed., Aug. 19, 2015 Paws & Effect was notified by canine I.D. chip-tracking vendor HomeAgain that its 6-year-old service dog, a black Labrador named "Honor," was recovered by law enforcement authorities in North Carolina. The dog is safe and healthy.”Paws & Effect said Baker got his dog when Baker was being treated for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder at the Iowa City Veterans Hospital.Nicole Shumate, with Paws & Effect, said Baker left Iowa for North Carolina because he felt he wasn’t getting the help he needed. She said he went to the VA in Asheville.Baker’s family released a statement Thursday saying: “Wade Allen Baker, 44, died during a Waynesville, North Carolina, church shooting incident that occurred on Wednesday, Aug. 19, 2015. We are grateful that no other members of our community were injured.“Wade was a husband and father, son and brother. Wade is survived and will always be loved by six sons and three daughters: Nicholas, Mason, Jackson, Jakobi, Tanner, Gage, Kyla, Dana, Kayla; his wife Michelle; loving parents Candy and Daryl; a sister, Laura; and his service dog, Honor.“Wade was also a military veteran. He served in the U.S. Army from approximately August 1989 to November 1998. His military occupational specialty was mechanized infantryman, and he received an honorable discharge. His military awards include: Army Commendation Award (second award), Army Achievement Medal, Joint Meritorious Unit Service Award, Good Conduct Medal (third award), National Defense Service Award, Southwest Asia Service Medal with three Bronze Service Stars, Armed Forces Service Medal, Overseas Service Ribbon, Kuwait Liberation Medal (Kuwait), Kuwait Liberation Medal (Saudi Arabia) and others.“Like other members of our community and family, we are struggling to understand these events. We are grieving for our loss. We appreciate your thoughts and prayer in the coming days, and hope that others will respect our privacy. We have no further information at this time.”