L.L. Brasier

Detroit Free Press

The Oakland County Sheriff's office is reviewing the fatal shooting of a parolee by police late Wednesday night following a high-speed chase that started in Macomb County and ended with a crash on Telegraph Road in Bloomfield Hills.

Investigators say police opened fire on Deviere Ernel Ransom, 24, of Detroit, after he ran behind a nearby drug store and then pulled a handgun on approaching officers. Police say he had fired shot at a Troy police officer during the car chase, which started in Warren.

According to investigators, Ransom had sawed off his tether earlier Wednesday evening, and armed with a gun, made threats to kill someone. Warren police were notified and began chasing the suspect in a car just before midnight near 12 Mile and Mound roads.

Police chased the vehicle into Troy, where Ransom reportedly fired shots at a Troy police officer who was joining the pursuit. Bloomfield Police officers were alerted as the vehicle left the freeway and collided with another car at the corner of Woodward Avenue and Square Lake Road. Ransom ran from the car to behind a CVS drug store.

As police approached, Ransom pulled a handgun, prompting officers to open fire. Investigators believe both Bloomfield Hills and Warren officers fired their weapons.

Those departments asked the Oakland County Sheriff's Office, the largest law enforcement organization in the county, to conduct an investigation, a common practice when police officers are involved in shootings.

"Our investigators were out there all night," said Oakland County Undersheriff Michael McCabe.

In addition to dashcam video from patrol cars, the investigators were interviewing witnesses, including the other motorist, who suffered minor injuries. Investigators were also checking with businesses in the area to see if they had surveillance cameras operating at the time.

"We've got a lot of work to do," McCabe said.

Ransom was being sought for absconding from parole and assault with a deadly weapon at the time he was killed. Autopsy results were not immediately available. He was paroled from prison last December for a 2013 offense of assault by strangulation or suffocation.

Contact L.L. Brasier: 248-858-2262 or lbrasier@freepress.com