WAKE FOREST, N.C. — A frightened Wake Forest woman told police Friday night that her husband shoved her head into a closet door and took her car keys before locking her outside their 1117 Chamberwell Ave. home.

"He’s not going to go easily. You might have to Taser him or something," she told dispatchers after asking that police be sent to the home just before 8:30 p.m.

When officers arrived, Alan Joseph Rushton, 38, repeatedly threatened them with a large kitchen knife before barricading himself in a room.

In her call to 911, Rushton's wife told police he had put kitchen knives in his pocket during their argument.

Negotiators tried for about two hours to get Rushton to surrender, police said.

When officers tried to take Rushton into custody, he charged them with the knife, spokesman Bill Crabtree said, and Officer Dustin d'Hemecourt shot him. Ruhston died at WakeMed.

Wake Forest police say Friday was the second time in two months that officers had been called to Rushton's home. On July 21, officers responded to a domestic situation that also led to Rushton barricading himself inside the home. That incident ended when Rushton voluntarily left the home after several hours.

On Friday night, Rushton's wife told dispatchers that the couple had argued earlier and Rushton left her with a knot on her head.

"My husband and I have been arguing. He cornered me in the closet earlier, and when I tried to get out away from him he slammed my face into the door frame,” she said.

The woman said she tried to call her brother for help, but Rushton disabled her phone and pushed her and the couple's two sons out the door.

"I can only do 911," she said. "He turned my phone off. I can’t even contact my family."

Friday's officer-involved shooting is the second in Wake Forest since May. On May 6, 18-year-old David William Johnson was {{a href ="story-1"}}shot and killed{{/a}} after he fled from police and a car and exited the vehicle with a handgun in plain view. An SBI investigation of the incident is ongoing.

“It is a tragedy any time our officers are forced to use deadly force against a citizen we are sworn to serve and protect,” Wake Forest Police Chief Jeff Leonard said in a statement. “We worked extremely hard to peacefully resolve the situation in an attempt to get Mr. Rushton the help he needed. Unfortunately, by his actions, he forced the response of our Tactical Service Unit. We extend our thoughts and prayers to Mr. Rushton’s family, as well as to Officer d’Hemecourt.”