Authorities today released the identity of man shot to death by police after he attacked a Tuscaloosa officer.

Jeffory Ray Tevis, 50, was pronounced dead on the scene at his apartment complex on University Boulevard East. Police today said Tevis was apparently suffering from a "mental episode" when he hit the officer and then struggled with him.

It all began about 6 p.m. when the officer responded to an assault call at Tevis' apartment. A press release issued this afternoon by Capt. Gary Hood, commander of the Tuscaloosa County Metro Homicide Unit, provided this account of what happened next: According to multiple witnesses, the officer arrived on the scene and walked up a set of steps to an upstairs balcony where several people were standing.

One of them pointed to a man who was later identified as Tevis. He told the officer Tevis was making threatening remarks toward him.

The officer approached Tevis and tried to talk with him to find out what was going. Tevis appeared upset and agitated as the officer initially approached him. Tevis told the officer that he had been attacked and those who had attacked him were still inside his apartment and pointed toward an open apartment door. The officer saw blood on the face and legs of Tevis.

He tried to calm Tevis and told him he would go in the apartment when his backup arrived. Tevis continued to act very agitated toward the officer, who believed Tevis was either under the influence of illegal drugs or suffering from a mental episode.

Suddenly, and without warning, Tevis hit the officer at least once and the two began struggling. A witness said Tevis was pushing the officer against the railing and was afraid he was going to push the officer over the rail off the second floor balcony.

The officer was able to push Tevis back toward his apartment where they both fell down. The two continued to struggle, and eventually the officer was able to stand up and back away from Tevis as the struggle continued. The officer immediately deployed his Taser, striking Tevis in the abdomen area. Witnesses, however, said stun-gun had no effect on Tevis and he stood up and yanked the Taser prongs from his body.

Tevis then charged toward the officer, who was still retreating. The officer continued backing away from Tevis and gave him verbal commands to stop and get down.

According to measurements taken at the scene, the officer retreated about 24 feet as Tevis continued approaching him. Witnesses said Tevis raised his hand over his head holding a large metal spoon in a threatening manner and rushed toward the officer. It was then that the officer pulled his duty weapon as he was backing away and fired two shots, hitting and killing Tevis.

Police today said that after speaking with several witnesses who were at the apartments, they determined no one had assaulted Tevis. No one had been seen entering or leaving the apartment, and no one was found inside the apartment.

"Based on statements from a family member, it appears Mr. Tevis was suffering from a mental episode and had engaged in self destructive behavior immediately prior to the arrival of the Tuscaloosa police officer,'' according to the press release.

The officer was treated at DCH Regional Medical Center in Tuscaloosa for minor injuries.