Parker Leavitt

The Republic | azcentral.com

The family of Scottsdale businessman Marc Kaplan, who died last year after three taser shocks from police, is accusing officers of using "unreasonably excessive and deadly force" while attempting to arrest the 57-year-old man, who had no weapon and was suffering from a mental illness, according to a lawsuit filed earlier this year in Maricopa County Superior Court.

Newly released police reports detail how Phoenix and Scottsdale officers confronted Kaplan, the former owner of the Sun City Rays senior-league professional baseball team, outside his Scottsdale home in August 2015 after reports of a domestic dispute.

Kaplan calmly stepped outside his front door to speak with officers but resisted when they tried to put him in handcuffs, according to police reports. Officers wrestled Kaplan to the ground, delivered three taser shocks and landed blows to his head and body before he lost consciousness, according to police.

Kaplan was pronounced dead hours later at Scottsdale Shea Medical Center. His mother and two adult children filed suit against Phoenix and Scottsdale in May, accusing police of gross negligence and blaming them for Kaplan's death.

Family: Officers' actions led to man's death

The lawsuit comes as police killings receive greater scrutiny following several high-profile incidents where officers have used deadly force, including with people who have a mental illness. Although police did not shoot Kaplan, his family contends the officers' actions directly led to his death.

The plaintiffs — Kaplan's daughter, Lauren Gilbert; son, Brian Kaplan; and mother, Barbara Kaplan — filed a $10 million claim against Scottsdale in February. Their lawsuit is active in Maricopa County Superior Court.

Police reports recently obtained by The Republic say that Marc Kaplan, who appeared to be suffering a manic episode related to bipolar disorder, pulled away and swung at officers with closed fists when they grabbed his arms. Officers then struck Kaplan in the face, head and ribs and used the taser, according to the records.

By the time police put Kaplan in handcuffs, he had no pulse and blood oozed from his right ear, according to police reports.

Police records did not identify the cause of death, and the Maricopa County Office of the Medical Examiner did not respond to a request for comment. The officers involved included Joseph Kapla and Javier Quezada of the Phoenix Police Department and Amanda Carey of Scottsdale Police Department.

Phoenix Police Sgt. Jonathan Howard said the department will not comment because of the lawsuit.

Scottsdale spokesman Kelly Corsette said, "While we sympathize with Mr. Kaplan's loved ones, we do not believe the city of Scottsdale bears any responsibility for his death. We are defending the litigation."

Phoenix-based Treon & Aguirre, the law firm representing the family, did not respond to a request for comment.

Family dispute led to police call

Lauren Gilbert was getting ready for bed around 9:30 p.m. Aug. 21, 2015, when someone rang the doorbell at her home in northeast Phoenix, according to police reports. It was her father, Marc Kaplan, at the door and he threatened to drive his car through the front window and kill Lauren's husband, Luke, according to police.

Kaplan became estranged from his family about three months prior, after demanding to take over the family business, family members told police. Neighbors and business associates later told police he behaved erratically in the days leading up to his death, and Kaplan's family believed he had stopped taking medication, according to police.

Outside the Gilberts' house, Kaplan got in his white BMW and revved the engine, according to police. Luke called police and Lauren called her mother, Marc's ex-wife Marci Kaplan.

Marci raced over to try to calm Marc down, according to police reports, and offered to drive with Marc back to his house near 96th Street and Shea Boulevard. Marc agreed, speeding home at about 120 mph while cutting off drivers and running red lights, Marci told police.

Marc and Marci were gone by the time police arrived at the Gilberts' residence, so officers began the 8-mile drive to Marc's lakeside home in Scottsdale Ranch, according to police reports.

Candlelit shrines in 'temple of love'

An unusual sight greeted Marci as she entered her ex-husband's house just after 10 p.m., according to police reports. Marc had built several shrines in the entryway, living room, kitchen and family room. There were lit candles, flowers, cards and handwritten notes surrounding photographs, including some of Princess Diana, according to police.

Marc talked irrationally about how he was God and that he was taking her to the temple of love, Marci said in a police interview. Earlier that day, Marc told a business associate that he was God and had not slept in four days. He had also called his landlord and said he was preparing for visits from Donald Trump, Taylor Swift and Jimmy Carter, according to police.

As Marci looked around the house, Marc took a phone call. Marci then walked out the door and down the street, where Phoenix and Scottsdale police were arriving, records show.

Marci asked officers to "take her away from the area" and tried to get into one of the police cars, according to police reports. Police asked her to wait at the end of the street while they approached Marc. They intended to arrest him related to the earlier threats made at his daughter's home.

Were police too aggressive?

Marc Kaplan's family said they warned police officers that he had a mental illness and was "decompensating" — a psychiatric term for failure to cope with stress, causing a personality disturbance — before they approached his home, according to the lawsuit.

But police failed to deal with Kaplan properly and unnecessarily escalated the situation verbally and physically, the family claims.

Kaplan's demeanor was calm and pleasant as Officers Kapla, Quezada and Carey arrived and asked him to step outside the front door, according to police reports. That changed as police "began to yell aggressive commands" and assault Kaplan while trying to force his arms behind his back, the lawsuit contends.

The struggle lasted for several minutes, with Quezada delivering taser shocks three times within two minutes, according to police reports. When it ended, Kaplan bled from his mouth, ear and nose while lying face down. Carey had blood "all over her hands," the report says. Officers received minor injuries.

"The Phoenix police officers negligently failed to comply with ... customs and the common law standard of reasonable due care required by police officers in approaching and dealing with a mentally ill person," the family claims in its lawsuit.

In media reports of the incident from last year, police had said a man — now known to be Marc Kaplan — died after a taser shock. Police said the man may have consumed drugs but did not mention any mental-health issues.

Officers later found a "green leafy substance" believed to be marijuana along with multiple prescription drugs inside Kaplan's home, according to police reports.

The family is asking for a jury trial to award damages for the plaintiffs' grief, pain, loss of financial support, loss of companionship and any punitive damages. A hearing has not been scheduled.

Kaplan graduated with a degree in business and communications from University of Cincinnati and owned the Sun City Rays baseball team in the early 1990s. The team was part of the short-lived Senior Professional Baseball Association. Kaplan's players included former Major League stars Rollie Fingers and Ferguson Jenkins, according to baseball-reference.com.