The man shot and killed by a King George County deputy Saturday night has been identified as 64-year-old Kenneth Henry Morgan.

Morgan was shot at his home in the 10000 block of Tinsbloom Mill Lane in King George after police said he approached a deputy with a knife.

King George Sheriff Steve Dempsey said the deputy, who has not been named, backed down a “fairly long” hallway and repeatedly shouted for Morgan to stop before opening fire.

The deputy, who has been with the Sheriff’s Office for four years, is on administrative leave pending an ongoing state police investigation.

Dempsey Tuesday expressed confidence that the investigation will prove that the deputy acted properly.

“He’s a good officer and he gave [Morgan] every opportunity to surrender,” Dempsey said. “No one wanted it to turn out like it did.”

The incident occurred at what the sheriff described as a group home developed by Project Faith off State Route 3 between the Sheriff’s Office and the county courthouse.

Project Faith provides housing for people with limited income and/or disabilities.

Dempsey said the deputy responded to a 911 call from another resident. Morgan had apparently gotten upset with that resident over a bill.

Morgan had barricaded himself into his bedroom by the time the deputy arrived. The deputy spent about an hour trying to talk Morgan into coming out peacefully, but had no success.

Two more deputies and a state trooper were on the scene when, shortly before midnight, they decided to enter the room and get Morgan.

Dempsey said actions Morgan had taken toward the other resident prior to police arrival led police to think he was mentally unstable and posed a threat to himself or others. Dempsey declined to elaborate on those actions.

Dempsey said that after the deputy forced open the door, Morgan came at him with a knife raised over his head.

Police said the deputy backed down a hallway screaming for Morgan to drop the weapon, but he kept advancing in a threatening manner. The deputy then shot Morgan.

Emergency workers were on the scene by that time and began treating Morgan immediately after he was shot. They were not able to revive him.

Dempsey said it was the ninth time his office had responded to calls involving Morgan since he moved to King George from Spotsylvania County sometime last year. Eight of those calls, including the one over the weekend, have taken place since April.

Dempsey said others have called about Morgan’s behavior six times. Morgan called the police three times himself, the sheriff said.

The deputy who shot Morgan had responded to three incidents involving Morgan prior to Saturday. All of those incidents were resolved without any arrest.

On May 16, Dempsey said, Morgan called police because he was upset that someone had cut a cord to his television.

The deputy purchased a new cord with his own money and installed it so Morgan could watch television, Dempsey said.

Morgan’s last arrest occurred in November 2013 in Spotsylvania, when he was charged with arson of a dwelling. The charge was eventually reduced to a misdemeanor and Morgan got a suspended sentence.

Dempsey said he expects state police to complete the initial part of their investigation in three to four weeks, at which point the deputy will likely be put back on duty.

Police said the entire investigation, including a toxicology report, could take up to 10 weeks to complete.

The state police Shooting Investigative Team is reviewing the incident. Dempsey said it was the first time in his 36 years with the Sheriff’s Office that a county deputy has fatally shot someone.