The State Bureau of Investigation is investigating the police shooting death of an Arab man on Sunday afternoon.The Cullman County coroner has identified the victim as Christopher Ray Tompkins, 36.Arab Police Chief Ed Ralston said the shooting happened at the end of a chase involving a vehicle stolen from Guntersville. A resident called 911 after he spotted someone driving his stolen truck, and he claimed that the thief fired shots at him when he was confronted.Ralston said Tompkins was driving a stolen truck with a female in the passenger seat.The pursuit ended on County Road 1825 in Cullman County when both suspects jumped out of the truck, ran and hid behind a chicken house.Tompkins died from multiple gunshot wounds. Arab Police Cpl. Jeff Warren was also shot in the incident."His nickname is Preacher. He is very family-oriented, very department-oriented. A lot of times, (when) people here in the department have any kind of issues and they want to talk to somebody, then they talk to Preacher. He is just an all-around good guy," Ralston said. Four Arab officers, including Warren, are on paid administrative leave.Warren is expected to be released from the hospital on Monday. He has worked for the Arab Police Department for six years.The female in the stolen truck with Tompkins is in custody, and Ralston said she faces criminal charges in Marshall County.

The State Bureau of Investigation is investigating the police shooting death of an Arab man on Sunday afternoon.

The Cullman County coroner has identified the victim as Christopher Ray Tompkins, 36.

Arab Police Chief Ed Ralston said the shooting happened at the end of a chase involving a vehicle stolen from Guntersville. A resident called 911 after he spotted someone driving his stolen truck, and he claimed that the thief fired shots at him when he was confronted.

Ralston said Tompkins was driving a stolen truck with a female in the passenger seat.



The pursuit ended on County Road 1825 in Cullman County when both suspects jumped out of the truck, ran and hid behind a chicken house.

Tompkins died from multiple gunshot wounds.



Arab Police Cpl. Jeff Warren was also shot in the incident.

"His nickname is Preacher. He is very family-oriented, very department-oriented. A lot of times, (when) people here in the department have any kind of issues and they want to talk to somebody, then they talk to Preacher. He is just an all-around good guy," Ralston said.

Four Arab officers, including Warren, are on paid administrative leave.

Warren is expected to be released from the hospital on Monday. He has worked for the Arab Police Department for six years.

The female in the stolen truck with Tompkins is in custody, and Ralston said she faces criminal charges in Marshall County.

