Dessislava Yankova

dyankova@mtcngroup.com

The family of a young man from Hendersonville who was shot by police and fell off a bridge early Wednesday morning insists he couldn't have had a weapon.

Police reports do not "add up," say the family of Steven Dodd, 22, whose death in the early-morning incident Wednesday led to an investigation that shut down Sumner County's main traffic artery for nearly 12 hours and left a family in shock and mourning.

"Our son is a great kid, great kid all around, loved by the entire family," his father Mike Dodd said through tears Wednesday.

His son was a 2012 graduate of Station Camp High School.

"You would’ve loved him if you ever had a chance to know him," Mike Dodd said. "This is so shocking for us, the turn of events from 24 hours ago to where we’re here now. We have to bury our son. I want to know what happened last night."

911 call about man on bridge

Around 10:50 p.m. Tuesday, a Hendersonville resident saw Steven Dodd on the Indian Lake overpass above Vietnam Veterans Boulevard and called 911, Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman Josh DeVine said.

Hendersonville Master Patrol Officer Hunter Raymond found Dodd standing on the barrier of the edge of the bridge. Raymond began talking with Dodd, who "indicated he had a gun in his pocket," DeVine said.

Raymond called for backup, and three more officers responded.

At about midnight, during the conversation that followed, Dodd pulled the gun from his pocket. Raymond fired at least one shot, hitting Dodd in the leg. Dodd fell off the overpass, landing on Vietnam Veterans Boulevard. He was pronounced dead at around 2:30 a.m. Wednesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.

Police later discovered a pellet gun at the scene believed to have been in Dodd’s possession, DeVine said.

Family's account

Dodd's mother Missy Dodd, said her son left the house just a few miles from the incident at around 11 p.m. Tuesday and started walking toward the Indian Lake area.

"He was agitated," Missy Dodd said with puffy, teary eyes. "There was lots of things going on. Nothing serious. We were concerned with him walking away."

In about 30 minutes, she said, her husband heard sirens from the area where their son was heading. She walked there to find multiple police cars and an officer detouring traffic.

"I couldn't get anywhere near there," said Missy Dodd. "All I knew is that he fell off and he was en route to Vanderbilt."

The mother said she strongly believes her son did not have a weapon when he left the home.

"He did not leave with any weapons," she said. "We do not have any weapons. He does not use weapons."

Steven Dodd's aunt and uncle concurred.

"They don’t own weapons," uncle Stephen Hendrix said. "There was not a single weapon in the house. The only thing that resembles a weapon is an Airsoft pistol that is still in the house right now. So as far as anyone knows, when he walked off this lawn last night, he was carrying nothing that would even resemble a weapon."

Ongoing investigation

TBI is investigating the incident.

"We are working to collect information, interviews and evidence that will help us piece together all of the details of this morning’s incident," DeVine said Wednesday. "We're investigating all aspects of the event."

The TBI will submit all findings to Sumner County's 18th Judicial District Attorney General's Office, which will determine whether further investigation is needed and whether actions by police were justified, DeVine said.

Steven Dodd was arrested by Gallatin police in January 2012 on a count of attempted statutory rape, according to the TBI. Two months later, he pleaded guilty to a lesser charge and paid more than $500 in fines, but did not serve any jail time.

In April 2012, the Sumner County Sheriff''s Office charged him with a count of drug-related violation of probation and one count of delinquency of a minor, which were dismissed two months later.

Remembering Steven

Steven, the family said, had a "small" but very loyal group of friends. With them and his younger brothers, he enjoyed playing video games and billiards and spending time with family.

They described him as quiet, hard-working, quick-witted, caring and loyal to his family.

​"He loved goofing off, especially around the holidays," aunt Korie Hendrix said. "We liked to come up with and take funny pictures. He had a great sense of humor and a very kind heart. I'll always remember that about him."

The family is in the process of making funeral arrangements.

"Our lives are definitely changed," Missy Dodd said. "We'll never be the same."

Natalie Neysa Alund and Tena Lee contributed to this report.