The man shot and killed by Hamilton County sheriff's deputies Wednesday night has been identified as 46-year-old Brent Pickard.

Pickard brandished a firearm at the end of a lengthy car chase Wednesday night and was killed by deputies, according to the sheriff's office.

Deputies initially responded to a report disorder with a weapon involved in the Ooltewah area at 9:30 p.m., said Gino Bennett, director of support services. As deputies were on route, the suspect fled in a vehicle and deputies gave chase.

Deputies attempted to stop the vehicle several times but the man refused to pull over, Bennett said.

Pickard was finally stopped near 5900 Highway 153, north of Hixson. At that point, he pulled out a weapon and was killed by deputies.

Four deputies have been placed on standard administrative leave, according to the sheriff's office.

Wednesday's chase was not the first time Pickard had been involved in a standoff with police. In April 2014, Pickard threatened a woman with a rifle and then got into a four-hour standoff with police in Dalton, Ga., after he entered the business where he worked with a rifle.

No one was injured in that incident and Pickard was charged with simple assault. Those charges were later dismissed.

The Chattanooga Police Department will investigate Wednesday's shooting, Bennett said. Sheriff Jim Hammond said the sheriff's office will also conduct a separate, internal investigation into the event.

Brent Pickard



"We asked the city to do an independent investigation," Hammond said. "That is standard procedure in a situation like this - to ask another agency to take a transparent look."

The police department will look at whether the shooting was justified by law, Hammond said. He declined to say what type of firearm Pickard was armed with.

CPD declined to comment on the investigation in a statement.

"At this time it would be inappropriate for the Chattanooga Police Department to further comment or answer questions until the conclusion of the investigation to ensure information is validated," the statement read.

The stretch of Highway 153 where the shooting happened was closed overnight and into the morning, which caused traffic backups in the area.

This is a developing story. Stay with the Times Free Press for more details.