Jason Pohl

jasonpohl@coloradoan.com

The Larimer County District Attorney said a Loveland police officer was justified in fatally shooting a man clutching a knife at a crowded Loveland restaurant after he warned other restaurant patrons of a "human sacrifice."

Officer Jennifer Hines, a 10-year veteran with Loveland police, fired one shot from her .45-caliber handgun, killing 45-year-old William Rippley.

"He is going to kill him, he had a knife in his hand, and he hadn't dropped it after hearing commands, and I just thought he is going to kill that man and it is not going to happen in front of me," she said. "I drew my gun and I reached over the wall and I shot him."

Hines and a police trainee, Jay Smith, were traveling west on Eisenhower Boulevard while on patrol Aug. 31 when they heard dispatchers report multiple 911 calls of someone throwing a bicycle into oncoming traffic. As the pair arrived at the scene near Mountain View High School in east Loveland, they saw a man, later identified as Rippley, running through a field.

Smith gave chase on foot while Hines parked the car near the Pizza Ranch. After losing sight of Rippley, officers began combing the parking lot. Moments later they saw Rippley "leaning out the drive-up window screaming at the officers," District Attorney Cliff Riedel wrote in a letter to Police Chief Luke Hecker. The restaurant was open for business, and police saw Rippley walk out of the kitchen while carrying a knife.

Hines started pounding on the glass window, urging people to leave the restaurant.

LAW ENFORCEMENT:Colorado lawmakers weigh electronic police citations

Police moved to the front entrance and tried to usher diners to safety while additional officers responded. As Hines entered the restaurant, she reported seeing Rippley on the other side of a 5-foot partition, "chest-to-back with an old man in front of him."

Other officers who entered the restaurant from the kitchen entrance corroborated Hines' recollection of the event.

Officer Greg Harris saw Rippley moving toward an elderly man with the knife "blade up" in his hand. That's when Harris yelled "hostage," but nobody else had a clear shot. Officer Tim Yunger approached the elderly man and tried to pull him away from Rippley, simultaneously kicking him in the thigh to slow him down, Riedel wrote in his report.

Immediately after the kick, Hines fired the single shot, striking Rippley in abdomen.

A witness later told police Rippley went into the nearby Golden Corral earlier that night — with his bicycle — and said, "Attention everybody. I met God tonight, and the chief of police drugged me... Everyone needs to go home. Nobody is safe. Especially women and children need to leave, because there is going to be a human sacrifice tonight."

MORE NEWS:2015 Larimer County suicides on pace with last year's spike

Had he survived, Rippley could have been charged with multiple felonies including menacing and attempted first-degree assault, Riedel wrote.

"Attacks on innocent civilians in schools, theaters, churches and businesses have become all too common. Since the tragic events at Columbine High School unfolded, law enforcement officials have learned that they must immediately place themselves at risk to protect the innocent," Riedel wrote.

"The selfless actions of Officer Hines and the other officers at the Pizza Ranch were authorized under Colorado law and very likely prevented the loss of life to innocent civilians and employees who were in the Pizza Ranch Restaurant."

The other officers were cleared of any wrongdoing earlier this month.

Reporter Jason Pohl covers breaking news for the Coloradoan. Follow him on Twitter: @pohl_jason.

State high court mulls ski resorts’ avalanche liability