Members of the Chicago Police Department work the scene of a police-involved shooting near 19th Street and South Ashland Avenue on Aug. 29, 2015. (Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune)

A 29-year-old man died after being shot by police on the Lower West Side early Saturday, police said.

About 1:30 a.m., 10th District Cmdr. Frank Valadez and a police officer assigned to the 10th District were on routine patrol when they saw someone fire shots from a vehicle into another occupied vehicle near the corner of 23rd and Wood streets in the Heart of Chicago neighborhood, according to a statement from the Chicago Police Department.

Advertisement

Valadez and the officer pursued the vehicle, and near the intersection of 19th Street and Ashland Avenue, the vehicle struck several parked cars, according to the statement.

As officers tried to intercept, the suspects deliberately reversed their vehicle to strike the commander and the officer, police said in the statement.

Advertisement

The officers fired their weapons, striking at least one person who continued to flee but was later taken into custody after striking additional vehicles, the statement said.

One of the vehicle's occupants, who suffered a gunshot wound, was pronounced dead at the scene at 3:56 a.m. The man, who was later identified as Rafael A. Cruz Jr. of the 1900 block of South Jefferson Street in Chicago, died of a gunshot wound to the back, according to the medical examiner's office.

Chicago police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi told Associated Press that the driver of the fleeing vehicle was shot and killed.

Police found additional suspects, who are being questioned as part of the investigation. A handgun was recovered from the suspects' vehicle.

Valadez and the officer suffered injuries that weren't life-threatening.

Chicago Police Superintendent Garry McCarthy released this statement Saturday afternoon regarding the incident:

"Last night, Commander Francis Valadez and an officer witnessed an attempted murder and aggressively pursued those responsible. While the police involved shooting is under investigation by the Independent Police Review Authority, the incident is a clear depiction of how the men and women of the Chicago Police Department are on the front lines, relentlessly targeting those individuals who torment our neighborhoods with gun violence."

No other information about the incident was immediately available.

Advertisement

Early Saturday, police officers blocked off about two blocks on 19th between South Wood and Ashland with yellow and red tape.

Inside the crime scene, several damaged cars sat parked along 19th.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Officers shined flashlights as they investigated, and as light rain started to come down around 3 a.m., some officers pulled out umbrellas for cover.

About half a dozen people gathered near the eastern edge of the crime scene.

Some people said their parked cars were smashed as a result of the incident.

Gonzalo Blanco said his 2003 black Cadillac got rammed in the back, causing it to crash into the car in front of it.

Advertisement

Blanco, who lives in Berwyn, said he came into the city for a friend's birthday party, which was held about a block away from where the incident happened.

When he left the party to go home, Blanco said he saw police tape and his smashed car. An officer let him inside the crime scene for a moment to check out the damages, he said.

"It sucks all around," Blanco said. "I should have just stayed home."