Advertisement Chief: Man who died after Taser stun was beating woman, attempting to rob her Victim was shaken up, but physically OK, police say Share Copy Link Copy

Cincinnati's police chief said a man who died after being shocked with a Taser was beating a woman and attempting to steal cash from her.Chief Jeffrey Blackwell said that Officer Anthony White and probationary Officer Philip Van Cleve were on patrol just before 10 p.m. Monday when they heard a car horn and shouting coming from a gas station at Liberty and Walnut streets.Watch this storyAs White and Van Cleve approached, they were flagged down by several people who said a man was trying to rob a woman at an ATM on one end of the parking lot, Blackwell said.Watch full news conferenceBlackwell said White ordered the man, James Carney III, 48, to stop, but Carney continued to lean into the car and assault the driver, who was screaming for help."He was leaning inside of the vehicle, actively assaulting the victim here. He was biting, punching her," Capt. Capt. Michael John said at the news conference.White fired his Taser into Carney and shocked him once, then cycled and shocked again when the first had no apparent effect, Blackwell said."We think right now, the policy was followed. We think the officers did, acted, reasonably and acted according to their training," Blackwell said.Blackwell said Carney became unresponsive while still leaning into the car, which was too close to the ATM to get to Carney. Responding officers lifted the back of the car and moved it far enough to get to Carney, Blackwell said.Blackwell said officers performed CPR until paramedics arrived. Carney was taken to UC Medical Center, where he later died."We're currently awaiting the autopsy report from Dr. Samarco which will give us more clarity on the exact cause of death," Blackwell said.Blackwell said that while some models of Taser have cameras on them, CPD's do not. Capt. Michael John said the victim was shaken up, but "physically OK."The robbery victim declined to be interviewed on Tuesday and said she was still in shock over the incident.White is on administrative leave while the investigation continues, Blackwell said. An autopsy of Carney will be conducted by the Hamilton County Coroner's Office.