NEWARK -- An alleged carjacking prompted a now-ended morning standoff with Newark police Tuesday in the city's South Ward, authorities say.

In its aftermath, one suspect is dead and five others are in police custody, said Clara Rodriguez, chief assistant prosecutor at the Essex County Prosecutor's Office.

Police have yet to reveal the suspects' ages or names.

The suspect died after he was struck by a Newark Police Department vehicle near the Hawthorne Avenue Elementary school, authorities said.

It was the second time in less than a week that a person was injured in connection with a pursuit by city police. On Aug. 27, a woman walking her dog near Branch Brook Park was struck by a driver pursued by police on suspicion of speeding.

PREVIOUS

:

According to authorities, the incident began early Tuesday morning with the carjacking of a silver Jaguar sedan in the city's Valisburg section.

The arrested suspects are now being investigated for their involvement in the carjacking, as well as a another robbery and shooting authorities say the stolen vehicle may have been used in.

It was unknown if anyone else was injured during those incidents.

After being spotted by police, the six suspects were pursued through the South Ward into the vicinity of the Hawthorne Avenue and Demarest Street intersection, officials said. Police caught three suspects immediately, and struck a fourth with their car. He was pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said.

Another two suspects ran off to a residence on West Runyon Street, where an hours-long standoff with the police department's Emergency Response Team began.

While neighborhood residents poured out of their homes to watch, officers could be heard pleading with the suspects to exit the residence. At approximately 11 a.m., the suspects surrendered to police, officials said.

An Essex County Prosecutor's Office Professional Standards Bureau investigation into the death of the suspect struck by a Newark police vehicle is in its early stages, officials said.

The preliminary investigation uncovered two handguns in the vehicle at the scene, said Essex County Prosecutor's Office spokeswoman Katherine Carter.

Vernal Coleman can be reached at vcoleman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter at @vernalcoleman. Find NJ.com on Facebook.