Advertisement Man shot, killed by police in French Lick has been identified Police investigating after officer-involved shooting in French Lick, Ind. Share Copy Link Copy

The southern Indiana, resident who was shot and killed by police Friday night has been identified.He is Ramon Damiani Jr., 49, according to police.The incident happened late Friday afternoon in Orange County, Indiana.Officers responded to a domestic situation in which they were told Damiani was strangling his wife.“We were responding because somebody's been hurt and it turned significantly tragic. Certainly in a direction we did not want to see it go,” said Sgt. Phil Hensley, with Indiana State Police.According to police, a West Baden police officer and Indiana state trooper responded and tried speaking to Damiani.Police said the West Baden officer used his Taser on Damiani after being charged at with a metal pipe.“Officers told him numerous times, 'Drop the pipe, drop the pipe.' He wouldn't do it, he began approaching officers in what they perceived was a violent manner,” said Hensley.But the Taser proved ineffective and Damiani continued charging them, swinging a large metal pipe and attempting to hit the officer in the head, according to police.That's when, police said, Trooper Michael Allen fired his weapon, striking Damiani. Police said the West Baden officer also fired his weapon.“I heard six, maybe five rounds. A split-second of pause, like maybe four first then maybe two after that but it was quick,” said Francis Nathilel, a neighbor who heard shots. Nathilel heard the shots and then saw dozens of officers arriving on scene. That's when he began to worry.“I'm like, whoa what happened? Just curiosity. Made me wonder because like I said, I have a friend over there, and luckily it wasn't my friend,” said Nathilel.According to police, officers had hoped and tried to avoid a shooting. “They're going to need a little time to go through and reflect with what happened and deal with the situation, naturally, but at this point they're holding up pretty well,” said Hensley.As standard procedure, both officers have been placed on administrative duties by their respective departments as the investigation continues.Allen is a veteran officer with no disciplinary record, according to police.Damiani's wife, who police said had been strangled, did not receive any serious injuries.Police were unsure of the couple’s history.