Police: As officer drove up behind vehicle, driver made U-turn, sped off, crashed

One person was killed in in a single-vehicle crash in North Fairmount on Friday afternoon shortly after a police officer said he spotted the driver make an improper turn.Officers said the incident happened around 2:40 p.m. on Sutter Avenue near the intersection of Moosewood.Watch this storyAccording to police, an officer saw a silver Volvo, driven by Melvin Murray Jr., 26, make an improper right-hand turn.As the officer caught up to the Vehicle, Murray made a U-turn on Sutter and began heading in the opposite direction, the officer said.That's when police said he lost control of his car.Police said the car left the road and traveled about 15 feet down a wooded hill before crashing into a tree. Murray was pronounced dead at the scene.“The officer saw this individual make an improper turn. He believe this vehicle was trying to evade him. He was just trying to catch up to investigate. When he finally caught up to him the individual was deceased after striking a tree,” Cincinnati police Col. Eliot Issac said.“I heard a car coming down the hill and heard this loud boom and those telephone poles and lines was moving back and forth,” witness Gene Copeland said.Police said Murray was not wearing a seat belt. Excessive speed is a factor in the crash. Officials said impairment is unknown at the time.The assistant police chief said they are still investigating why the driver sped off.Anyone with information is asked to call police.

One person was killed in in a single-vehicle crash in North Fairmount on Friday afternoon shortly after a police officer said he spotted the driver make an improper turn.

Officers said the incident happened around 2:40 p.m. on Sutter Avenue near the intersection of Moosewood.

Advertisement Related Content Black Lives Matter Cincinnati protests deaths of Paul Gaston, Melvin Murray Jr.

Watch this story

According to police, an officer saw a silver Volvo, driven by Melvin Murray Jr., 26, make an improper right-hand turn.

As the officer caught up to the Vehicle, Murray made a U-turn on Sutter and began heading in the opposite direction, the officer said.

That's when police said he lost control of his car.

Police said the car left the road and traveled about 15 feet down a wooded hill before crashing into a tree. Murray was pronounced dead at the scene.

“The officer saw this individual make an improper turn. He believe this vehicle was trying to evade him. He was just trying to catch up to investigate. When he finally caught up to him the individual was deceased after striking a tree,” Cincinnati police Col. Eliot Issac said.

“I heard a car coming down the hill and heard this loud boom and those telephone poles and lines was moving back and forth,” witness Gene Copeland said.

Police said Murray was not wearing a seat belt. Excessive speed is a factor in the crash. Officials said impairment is unknown at the time.

The assistant police chief said they are still investigating why the driver sped off.

Anyone with information is asked to call police.