FREEHOLD -- The death of a Belmar man at a music festival in Howell last year has been ruled accidental and the police officers who responded to the disturbance acted appropriately in restraining him, the Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office announced on Thursday.

Timothy Harden's family filed a wrongful death lawsuit alleging Howell police and others used excessive force to restrain the 38-year-old man at the festival, but his death was determined to be the result of "drug-induced excited delirium" and was ruled an accident by a medical examiner, said acting Monmouth County Prosecutor Christopher Gramiccioni.

Based on the results of the investigation and the autopsy results, Gramiccioni said, his office determined the actions of the police officers were lawful and did not violate policies of the state Attorney General's Office or Monmouth County regarding the use of force.

The Middlesex County Medical Examiner's Office, which handles autopsies for Monmouth County, examined the body and issued the autopsy report, which included a toxicology test that showed Harden had cocaine, alcohol and marijuana in his system at the time of his death, Gramiccioni said.

The case was presented to a Monmouth County grand jury on Feb. 26 and the panel concluded that no criminal charges should be filed against the officers, the acting prosecutor said.

Shortly before 3 p.m. on Sept. 5, Howell Township police received 911 calls for help with a disorderly person at the Souper Groove Music Festival, a three-day event held at the Priedaine Latvian Society on Route 33, officials have said. When the officers arrived, they found private security guards holding Harden down in the parking lot.

Gramiccioni said investigators learned after speaking with others who attended the festival that Harden, who was a volunteer for the event, was acting erratically throughout the day. In what Gramiccioni said was an unprovoked attack before police arrived, Harden punched in the face a security guard who approached him to provide assistance.

The security guard responded by punching Harden, and with the help of other security guards, brought Harden to the ground, Gramiccioni said. When the Howell police officers arrived, they tried to talk to Harden in an attempt to calm him down and get him medical help, he said. He said they restrained him while waiting for emergency medical personnel to arrive.

Harden became combative with police and while they were waiting for paramedics to administer a sedative, Harden suddenly stopped breathing, Gramicciioni said. He said Harden was placed in an ambulance and transported to Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune, where he was pronounced dead.

The family's lawsuit claimed police officers and security guards, using "excessive and unreasonable physical force" broke Harden's neck and choked him to death during that altercation.

The complaint named as defendants the employees of the Howell Township Police Department, the Priedaine New Jersey Latvian Society, Griffins Security, LLC and Souper Groove LLP and its organizers.

The Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office conducted the investigation into Harden's death after the state Attorney General's Office concluded there was no conflict of interest.

MaryAnn Spoto may be reached at mspoto@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @MaryAnnSpoto. Find NJ.com on Facebook.