Ortanzso Bovell, 25, was shot and killed in 2008 when police found him breaking into a car in Brooklyn. (Courtesy Law Office of Jon Norinsberg)

A Brooklyn jury has awarded $2.5 million to the grieving mother of a 25-year-old man shot and killed by police in 2008 — a shooting that cops maintain was accidental.

The surprise jury verdict against the city and Brooklyn NYPD Inspector John Chell was announced Friday following a five-week trial.

Advertisement

In reaching its verdict, the jury determined that Chell "intentionally discharged" his firearm at Ortanzso Bovell.

Witnesses say Chell shot Bovell as he fled in a stolen car.

Advertisement

On Aug. 7, 2008, Chell was a lieutenant in charge of the Brooklyn South Auto Larceny squad. He and his team found Bovell breaking into a 2004 Mustang GT at Remsen Ave. and Lenox Road in East Flatbush around 8 p.m., cops said.

Bovell tried to speed off in the car and sideswiped Chell as he tried to escape, according to initial reports.

Chell, who had taken out his weapon, fell and his gun went off as Bovell drove away, striking him in the back — a chain of events corroborated by several witnesses.

Both the department and the Brooklyn DA closed out the case in short order without charging Chell, officials said.

During a five-week civil wrongful death trial that began in February, Chell was on the witness stand for three days. He stuck to his claims that Bovell's death was an accident — but the jury didn't buy it.

Lorna Wright-Bovell, 51, mother of Ortanzso Bovell, was awarded $2.5 million following a five-week trial. (Ward, Jesse, Freelance NYDN/Jesse Ward Freelance NYDN)

"He maintained that he started to fall and the gun went off," said Jon Norinsberg, the attorney for Bovell's mother Lorna Wright-Bovell. "But we proved that the ballistics contradicted this — that the shooting had to be done by someone firing from a standing position."

Wright-Bovell said the verdict had given her closure. "I'm not saying my son didn't do anything wrong — but they could have arrested him," she said. "Don't kill him.

She said she "completely forgave" Chell and credited her Christian faith with helping her cope with her grief.

Advertisement

The shooting marked the third time Chell had fired his weapon.

Since Bovell's death, Chell has steadily moved up the ranks and is the commanding officer of the 75th Precinct in East New York, officials said.

He was never disciplined for killing Bovell and the NYPD will not reexamine the shooting in light of the verdict, a high-ranking police source said.

"It's gratifying to see that the jury saw through everything and got to the truth," Norinsberg said about the verdict. "It's a very tough thing...the verdict sheet asks if (Chell) intentionally discharged his firearm. That's a very tall order, but the jury said yes."

A city Law Department spokesman said the jury voted with their emotions, not with facts.

Inspector John Chell is the commanding officer of the 75th Precinct. (NYPD 75th Precinct via Twitter)

"We respect the jury's verdict in this tragic case although it is inconsistent with our view of the evidence," the spokesman said. "We will review our legal options."

Advertisement

But Norinsberg said the NYPD and the Brooklyn DA's office quickly swept the case under the rug, compounding the injustice brought upon Bovell's family.

He said one particularly disturbing aspect of the case was that the city Medical Examiner ruled the shooting a homicide on Sept. 3, 2008 — the very same day the DA's office closed its investigation on the grounds the shooting was accidental.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"This case stuck with me. It's the kind of case that keeps you up at night because a real injustice happened," Norinsberg said.

Though the shooting occurred nearly nine years ago, it was a stark reminder of how differently such police killings were viewed before the deaths of Eric Garner and others sparked the Black Lives Matter movement.

Bovell had been arrested over a dozen times for robbery, assault and possession of weapons. But the jury still believed he'd been wrongly killed by a cop.

"We never hid from the fact that Bovell had a criminal record, but this wasn't an accident," Norinsberg said.

Advertisement

"Chell was lucky this happened in 2008. "If this happened now, this would have caused an outrage. There would have been protests."

Chell did not return a message.

With Rocco Parascandola, Stephen Rex Brown