EL MONTE >> An El Monte woman whose husband allegedly set her afire died from her injuries Thursday, detectives said.

Lan Vuong, 58, suffered burns to more than 90 percent of her body in the Wednesday attack at the family home in the 3900 block of Glen Way. Her husband, 59-year-old William Chau, is also accused of fatally stabbing Lan Vuong’s mother and injuring her brother when they came to her aid.

An El Monte police officer later shot and critically wounded Chau who was holding his wife at knifepoint. Detectives said he refused orders to drop the knife.

Investigators are trying to determine the motive behind Wednesday’s attack that claimed two lives — Vuang and her 80-year-old mother Nguyet Phit Dang — and injured two others.

Suspect Chau remains in critical condition at a hospital, according to Detective Ray Lugo of the Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau. He has not been arrested.

The brother, 48-year-old Duc Vuong, was treated at a hospital Wednesday and released, according to Sheriff’s Homicide Lt. Eddie Hernandez.

Chau lived at the Glen Way home with his wife, his mother-in-law and his brother-in-law. He has no prior convictions in Los Angeles County, according to online court records. Authorities could not confirm if police previously had been called to the house.

El Monte police referred the media to the Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau which is handling the investigation on the officer-involved shooting.

Lugo believes Chau used an accelerant to set his wife on fire.

“She [was] fully engulfed from the head down,” Lugo said.

Chau allegedly put Lan Vuong in a chair in the family’s living room/dining room. Other furniture next to the chair caught fire.

Lugo said Vuong’s brother Duc attempted to help her and was stabbed in the arm. He also got burned.

Her mother came to the rescue with a blanket and was also attacked with the knife, according to Lugo. Duc Vuong then fled from the house.

El Monte police were responding to a call about a house fire and saw Chau holding Lan Vuong and pointing a 12-inch combat type knife at her. An officer fired one round and hit Chau in the upper torso.

Officers broke windows to get into the burning house and found Dang in a back bedroom. Paramedics took her to a hospital where she was pronounced dead.