INDIANAPOLIS -- The man shot and killed by an Indiana State Trooper Thursday afternoon has been identified.

Police released the suspect's identity as Brandon Jarmine Foy, 29. An autopsy was completed Friday and the cause of death was a result of gunshot wounds. During the autopsy, a .44 caliber revolver was found in Foy's pants pocket. Police also found a .45 caliber semi-automatic pistol near his body. Information has not been released about how many times Foy was shot or where.

The Indiana State Trooper was identified as Michael Wright on Friday. He is assigned to the Indianapolis State Police Post and has been with the state police since May 2014.

The trooper was shot in the index finger on his left hand and was taken to Methodist Hospital. He has been released and will have surgery for the injury. He will be off-duty as he recovers. He will eventually return to administrative duty until he is fully recovered.

The shooting was reported around 2:45 p.m. at the Eagle Pointe Apartments located near 6600 W. 46th St.

According to a press release from Indiana State Police, the suspect was the target of an ongoing drug investigation. The trooper, who was undercover and wearing a vest with the word "police" on the front, got out of his car to approach the suspect.

The suspect drew a handgun and pointed it toward the trooper. The trooper went behind a car and warned other troopers that the man had a gun. The man ran and reportedly pointed his gun at officers during the chase. He then jumped over a fence and then shots were fired.

"Police were screaming, 'Get on the ground! Get on the ground!' then I heard two shots, then I heard about five more shots. Pow, pow, pow, like that right behind another, then all the shooting stopped. So all the police cars were coming and the policeman got a shot," a neighbor said.

RELATED | Seven killed by police in Indy this year

MAP: 2015 Indianapolis Homicides

"He was brandishing it at the officers, but there were no shots fired during the pursuit itself, just when they leapt over the fence, that's when the shots started," said an ISP spokesperson on scene.

The suspect had a warrant for his arrest out of Marion County dating from July 2014.

The warrant stemmed from an incident in May 2014, when Foy pointed a gun at his mom and girlfriend, and waved a gun around several children, according to the arrest affidavit. He also violated a protective order that was issued to protect his girlfriend. Felony charges from the warrant include: criminal confinement, battery by means of a deadly weapon, pointing a firearm and criminal recklessness.

According to a press release from Indiana State Police, the investigation of Foy was less than 48 hours old and at the time Foy became a person of interest in the drug investigation, troopers did not know his identity.

The investigation will be handed over to the Marion County Prosecutor's Office for review.

ISP Capt. Dave Burston said police never want to have to fire their weapons.

"The taking of any life is always unfortunate, but what people need to remember is: We don't go out looking to take a life," Burston said. "[Foy] made the decisions that resulted in the loss of his life."

Pike Township School buses that were trying to get into the area were re-routed back to schools. Parents were told to pick their kids up from school.

This apartment complex was the site of a fatal IMPD officer shooting in September 2013.Officer Rod Bradway was killed while responding to a domestic disturbance at the apartment complex. Bradway heard a woman screaming for help inside an apartment and was shot in the head after forcing his way in to help her.

RELATED | Remembering fallen IMPD Ofc. Rod Bradway 1 year later