A Fontana police corporal was justified in a 2015 fatal shooting of a man who wielded a knife at him, the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office said.

Santino Burce, 34, of Fontana was shot in the head on Sept. 10, 2015 by Cpl. Bradley Guith during a welfare check near Valley Boulevard and Juniper Avenue, a report filed by Deputy District Attorney Lynette Grulke said. Burce was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead.

“Based on the facts presented in the reports and the applicable law, Corporal Guith’s use of deadly force was a proper exercise of Corporal Guith’s right of self-defense and therefore his actions were legally justified,” the report concluded.

Guith, driving a marked car, noticed a man lying down on a concrete slab. Guith, considering it was a hot day, went to check the man out. Burce began to leave when Guith approached him around 11:30 a.m., according to the report.

Guith stopped his patrol car and tried to talk to Burce who became agitated with him, the report said. Burce, after being told twice not to put his hands in his front pockets, put his hands in his right rear pocket. Guith drew his gun and ordered Burce to comply, which Burce did, the report continued.

But as Guith was holstering his gun, Burce reached in his back pocket and pulled out a closed pocket knife, the report said. Burce opened the knife and held it near his right hip. The blade of the knife was about four inches in length. Guith backed away and ordered Burce more than once to drop the knife, according to the report.

Burce refused to comply and Guith then noticed that it appeared Burce was positioning the knife to get a better grip on the handle, the report said.

Guith reportedly believed Burce was getting ready to charge at him with the knife. Guith, about 10-12 feet away, fired one shot, hitting Burce in the head, according to the report.

Guith, according to a witness, then radioed that there had been an officer-involved shooting and asked for paramedics to come to the scene.

“The fact Burce opened the knife to expose the blade and refused to comply with Corporal Guith’s commands to drop the knife as well as standing within 21 feet of Corporal Guith caused Corporal Guith to reasonably fear for his life,” the report stated. “Given these circumstances, it was reasonable for Corporal Guith to believe Burce was getting ready to stab him and the only way he could avoid being stabbed or killed would be to shoot Burce. Thus, the decision by Corporal Guith to use lethal force was justified.”