Eddie Tapia is shown in a photo for a license issued in 2013. (Credit: DMV)

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

An allegedly armed suspected carjacker who was fatally shot by sheriff’s deputy after taking hostages at a Downey restaurant following a lengthy police chase was identified Friday.

Eddie Tapia, 41, was identified by the Los Angeles County coroner’s office. His city of residence was unknown, a coroner’s official said.

Deputies in Pico Riverra began chasing him about 6:30 p.m. Thursday after they detected a LoJack signal from a stolen 1998 Honda Civic, said Cmdr. Mike Parker of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.

As deputies attempted to locate the car, Tapia carjacked a second car in an unincorporated area near Whittier, Parker said.

Aerial video from Sky5 showed the sedan speeding through the streets of Pico Rivera, Montebello, Monterey Park and East L.A. The driver swerved in and out of traffic, sometimes on the wrong side of the road, and nearly collided with pedestrians and oncoming vehicles.

The California Highway Patrol joined the pursuit when the suspect entered the 710 Freeway. After the driver exited the Freeway at Lakewood Boulevard in Downey, aerial video showed a CHP vehicle execute a PIT maneuver that resulted in the stolen car striking a vehicle in front of it.

Armed with a handgun, the suspect exited the vehicle and fired a shot into the air, the Sheriff’s Department said in a news release. He then ran into a nearby Chris’ & Pitt’s barbecue restaurant that was packed with dinner customers.

“I’d just ordered some food and he came into the cash register right where I was standing, pointed the gun … asking for water,” one patron said. “Then he went back into the kitchen. I darted out the door.”

Some people were briefly detained by authorities while exiting the restaurant. Parker said this was done for safety reasons during the fluid situation, to ensure the alleged gunman did not escape by posing as a bystander.

Hector Perez, a cashier at the restaurant, said the man appeared “panicked” and “agitated.”

“I honestly thought he was going to shoot me for a second,” Perez said.

Officers and deputies from multiple agencies surrounded the restaurant, and a hostage negotiator was called to the scene.

Another customer, Oscar Madriles, described the hostage situation as “definitely an experience I didn’t want to have to go through.”

Asked if he thought he would be shot by the gunman, he replied, “That’s the only thing going through my head at that point, was: What’s this going to feel like if this guy decides to do something?”

“An emergency developed” while the negotiator was trying to contact the suspect, Parker said.

A sheriff’s SWAT team was seen entering the building. Deputies opened fire after the suspect ignored their commands to put down his weapon, the news release stated. He was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics.

None of the restaurant’s customers or employees were harmed in the incident.

Tapia’s body remained at the scene overnight before being removed by coroner’s officials shortly before 9 a.m. Friday.

KTLA’s Tracy Bloom, Crystal Garcia and Melissa Pamer contributed to this story.