Armed Robbery Suspect Dead Following Police Chase From Flomaton

An armed robbery suspect was killed in an Okaloosa County wreck following a police chase out of Flomaton, AL, that began a short period of time after the armed robbery of a restaurant.

Two black males wearing some type of clothing over their face held up the Church’s Chicken in Flomaton about 10:10 p.m. Sunday, according to Flomaton Police Chief Bryan Davis. One suspect was described as wearing a blue hoodie and armed with a small handgun, while the second suspect was wearing a red hoodie. Both fled the restaurant on foot following the robbery.

Flomaton Police, the Escambia County (AL) Sheriff’s Office, the Escambia County (FL) Sheriff’s Office and K-9 teams from the Century Correctional Institution, Fountain Correctional Facility in Atmore and the Escambia County (FL) Road Prison worked to establish a perimeter around the restaurant. K-9 teams were on the ground conducting a search, Davis said.

High Speed Police Chase



The Escambia County (AL) Sheriff’s Office said in written statement that one of their deputies observed a small red truck with no headlights moving at extremely slow pace coming out of a side street behind Church’s Chicken. The vehicle refused to stop and proceeded across the state line into Escambia County, FL, and turned on Highway 4 and headed into Santa Rosa County.

The truck, driven by 35-year old Jermey Montrell Elliot of Flomaton, continued at about 100 miles per hour across Santa Rosa County and into Okaloosa County, according to an Okaloosa County Sheriff’s Office report. An Okaloosa County deputy reported that he met the vehicle on Highway 4 being pursued by three Escambia County (AL) deputies. The Okaloosa deputy was advised by his sergeant that he was to assist and not become directly involved in the pursuit; the Okaloosa deputy stayed one-half to three-quarters of a mile behind.

The vehicle crashed about 12:30 a.m. at Georgia Avenue and Dairy Road in Baker, according to the Florida Highway Patrol. Elliot was pronounced deceased on the scene. The FHP said Elliot’s 2001 Dodge Dakota collided with several trees and overturned near Baker School. Elliot was not wearing his seat belt. According to the FHP report, there were no passengers in the vehicle.

According to the Okaloosa County Sheriff’s Office there were two loaded pistols, one shotgun, a loaded AR-15, several rounds of ammunition and a brown backpack containing what was believed to be marijuana found inside Elliot’s truck. Elliot also had about $2,000 on his person. Another pistol was located outside of the vehicle, according to an incident report.

Authorities also located what appeared to be crystal methamphetamines, cocaine, scales and prescription medication in the truck, according to an Escambia County (AL) Sheriff’s Office press release.

The guns and other evidence were turned over to the Escambia County (AL) Sheriff’s Office.

Late Monday afternoon, Davis confirmed that Elliot was a suspect in the Church’s Chicken robbery. So far, there’s no word on the whereabouts of the second suspect.

Any additional details will be posted as they are made available.

Photos courtesy WEAR 3 for NorthEscambia.com, click to enlarge.



