Therese Apel, and Anna Wolfe

The Clarion-Ledger

3:30 p.m.

A coroner says a .38-caliber pistol was recovered where a Delta State University teacher died from a single gunshot to the head after he is suspected of killing a colleague and his ex-girlfriend.

Washington County Coroner Methel Johnson said Tuesday that Shannon Lamb killed himself about a mile south of his parents' house on the northern outskirts of Greenville.

Johnson says Lamb died in the wooded backyard of a home where he knew the residents, after abandoning his still running car.

She says Lamb's body is being taken to the state crime lab in Pearl for autopsy.

A .38-caliber handgun was also used in the fatal shooting of Lamb's colleague Ethan Schmidt.

2:15 p.m.

Authorities say a Delta State University professor who was killed by a colleague on campus was shot three times with a handgun and appeared to be entering or leaving his office because he had a book bag on his shoulder.

Deputy Bolivar County Coroner Murray Roark said Tuesday that Ethan Schmidt was shot with a .38-caliber handgun. Fellow teacher Shannon Lamb is accused of killing Schmidt on Monday at Delta State.

Roark says Schmidt was shot in the neck, cheek and near the right eye in the doorway of his office, which is inside an office suite on the second floor of Jobe Hall.

Contractors were cleaning the office Tuesday, removing bloodstained items and ripping up carpet.

Authorities have not released a motive in the killing. Lamb is also accused of fatally shooting his girlfriend.

1:50 p.m.

Police say they are still searching for a motive in the case of a Delta State University professor who is accused of killing his girlfriend and a colleague.

Gautier police said Tuesday that they believe Shannon Lamb killed his girlfriend, Amy Prentiss, at a home they shared in the small coastal town.

Detective Matt Hoggatt says there is no indication that drugs or alcohol played a role in the killing and that there was no history of criminal domestic violence at the home.

Lamb is also accused of killing fellow Delta State professor Ethan Schmidt. Hoggatt says at this point they don't believe there was a relationship between Schmidt and Prentiss.

1:40 p.m.

The Delta State University professor accused of killing a colleague and his girlfriend admitted to her slaying in a hand-written note and a 911 call.

Police released the note and a recording of the call Tuesday. In the call Monday morning, professor Shannon Lamb tells the dispatcher that police need to send officers over to his home. He says "I shot my wife last night" and also mentions that there is a "sweet dog" in the house that is "not going to bother anyone" but is likely upset.

Police asked the caller his name, but he doesn't want to give it.

The 911 call was made about 45 minutes before Lamb is suspected of shooting fellow Delta State history professor Ethan Schmidt in his office. The shooting led to a campus lock down and manhunt.

After the shootings, Lamb called relatives and told them he was not going to jail.

1:07 p.m.

Police in Mississippi say the man suspected of shooting two people Monday on opposite ends of the state called police after what's believed to be the first shooting and said he'd shot and killed the woman he lived with.

Authorities in Gautier said Shannon Lamb called them around 10 a.m. Monday and said he had shot and killed someone. He did not provide an explanation.

When police got to the scene they found a handwritten note that said: "I am so sorry I wish I could take it back. I loved Amy and she is the only person who ever loved me."

Lamb is accused of killing Amy Prentiss and a professor at Delta State University before eventually taking his own life late Monday.

12:20 p.m.

A Delta State University student who attended a counseling session after a professor was slain on campus says he thinks some students may not return after the fatal shooting.

Sophomore Robert Holcomb said Tuesday that attending the counseling session was a chance to talk and share experiences about the campus shooting Monday. The 32-year-old international business major from Seattle says some people are having a harder time than others.

A professor at the school is accused of killing a colleague in his office on Monday. Shannon Lamb is also suspected of earlier killing his girlfriend at a home they shared about 300 miles from the school.

Police have not released a motive for either killing.

A vigil will be held on the campus Tuesday night and classes were set to resume Wednesday.

11 a.m.

More than 70 students, faculty and staff are attending counseling sessions at Delta State University after one of the school's professors was accused of fatally shooting a colleague on campus.

Dr. Richard Houston, the university's director of counseling, said Tuesday that three large counseling sessions will be offered.

President William LaForge says the university is encouraging students to return to campus after officials say geography instructor Shannon Lamb shot history professor Ethan Schmidt in Schmidt's on-campus office. Lamb is also accused of killing his girlfriend at their home 300 miles away. He killed himself as police closed in on him.

Delta State had planned to celebrate its 90th anniversary Tuesday — some of the festivities were even supposed to be in Jobe Hall where the shooting happened — but LaForge says that event will be rescheduled.

LaForge says he didn't know of any conflict between Lamb and Schmidt but "obviously there was something in Mr. Lamb's mind."

A vigil was planned for 7 p.m. Tuesday and the university plans to resume classes Wednesday.

Delta State suspect calls 911: I shot my wife last night

10:40 a.m.

The college professor who is accused of killing his girlfriend and a colleague is being described by a longtime friend as smart, charismatic and funny.

Carla Hairston told The Associated Press on Tuesday that she and Shannon Lamb, the professor, grew up in the small city of Greenville, Mississippi.

Hairston remembered meeting Lamb through a mutual friend when she was 15 and he was 20. She said she and her friends were in high school, and he was the cool older guy who tried for several years to teach her to play guitar.

She says he was quite the heartthrob back then and all the girls would melt when he was around.

Hairston says when she wanted to be a rebellious teen and stay out late, Lamb made sure she and her friends went home by curfew. She said he was whip smart and would often quote song lyrics in conversation.

Midnight:

Delta State University President William LaForge said the deceased suspect, Shannon Lamb, was a member of the faculty who had been there for a while.

He was assigned two online geography courses for the fall and had expressed some difficulty with a medical situations, LaForge said. Because of his condition, Lamb had requested a reduced load.

"He wasn't one of our faculty members, even on a small campus, whom I knew," he said.

LaForge said he knew the victim, Ethan Schmidt, very well. He had met him two years ago, when they were both new to the campus.

"He did a tremendous job as a history professor," he said. "I thought the world of him. He was a star on our faculty at Delta State."

LaForge said both Lamb and Schmidt were colleagues in the same division on campus. "They knew each other," he told reporters at a midnight press conference. "They were colleagues on campus."

10:55 update:

Law enforcement sources say Shannon Lamb is dead of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Officials said Greenville Police Department tried to initiate a stop, at which point Lamb ran and stopped and got out on foot. Police heard a shot, and shortly thereafter, Lamb was found with a gunshot wound.

Lamb was transported to a hospital, officials said.

6:10 update:

Police told The Sun Herald they've been in contact with Lamb and are advising law enforcement agencies to "use extreme caution" when they find him, because he has said he will not go to jail.



Read more here: http://www.sunherald.com/2015/09/14/6414159_happening-now-officials-called.html?rh=1#storylink=cpy

5:50 update:

Tag number of Dodge Avenger is linked to a VIN number belonging to Amy Prentiss of Ocean Springs, who Lamb identified on social media as his girlfriend. Gautier police have identified Prentiss as the victim of the fatal shooting in Gautier today.

4:50 update:

Kenisha Lindsey, Delta State junior, said that while she didn't know the professor well, she was taking his U.S. History class online this semester.

"I was more concerned about his kids," Lindsey said. "I know he has three children and I was thinking about them."

Lindsey said it is surprising to her that the gunman has not been captured.

"(Mississippi State University) caught their gunman, but we can't even catch ours. Our campus is way smaller than Mississippi State's."

4:05 update:

MHP has put out a BOLO (Be on the lookout) for Shannon Lamb in a black Dodge Avenger, tag number STF 015. It is believed to be in the Cleveland area.

Itawamba Community College spokesman Adam Gore releases a statement denying media reports that Lamb had once worked for them.

"He was slated to teach as an eLearning adjunct instructor in Fall of 2009, but during the summer of 2009 became full time at Delta State and that prohibited him from teaching with us.



He never taught a class for us and would not be considered a past employee.



We know and understand the sensitivity of the news at hand as our thoughts and prayers are with everyone involved in this unfortunate situation. Thank you for your understanding of our concerns and corrections made to all previous reports."

3:35 update:

Authorities say they don't believe the alleged shooter is still on campus. They do have his green SUV, and believe he may be in another vehicle.

Statement from Dr. Glenn F. Boyce, Commissioner of Higher Education: “The Board of Trustees and I are extremely saddened by the passing of Delta State University professor Ethan Schmidt. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. We commend the Delta State University police and leadership for the quick response to the situation and their efforts to keep students, faculty and staff safe. We would also like to thank the other law enforcement agencies who have responded for their immediate and ongoing assistance to the university. We are in constant communication with the campus and are working with campus officials to provide assistance where needed.”

Delta State victim memorialized by former teacher

2:59 p.m. update:

Lamb's Facebook page says he received his doctorate this year, and he tells people that it may have "dropped off the face of the earth for the past 18 months or so."

Meanwhile friends who have posted on his page are begging him to turn himself in.

"I'm in shock and I really don't know what else to say. Listen to everyone and please turn yourself in," writes Sangie Butler Alford.

Tommy Akers writes, "Man, just turn yourself in bro!! Don't do anything to yourself or anyone else..."

Jody Johnson begs him to think of his children. Audrey Cox and Starlyn Smith ask him to let them know he's okay.

At this point, police do not know where Lamb is.

2:24 p.m. update:

Delta State University put out a release saying the suspect is on the loose, and that they are not identifying him at this time.

Official information is being released on the hour from the command center at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Highway 8.

Classes have been canceled for the remainder of the day and Monday night, as well as 90th anniversary commemorative events set for Tuesday.

All faculty, staff and students who have been cleared from academic buildings are being moved to Sillers Coliseum. Students currently in residence halls should remain there. Campus administrators are working to get food, water and counselors to the Coliseum. Police are working to clear all campus buildings, and students, faculty and staff should stay where they are until they are escorted out.

ORIGINAL STORY:

A professor is dead and an active shooter is allegedly loose on the Delta State campus near Jobe Hall.

Bolivar County Coroner Dr. Nate Brown said the professor was shot, but could not give any further information at this time.

Authorities have confirmed that history professor Ethan Schmidt is the victim. He worked in Jobe Hall.

The Sun Herald is reporting that social sciences professor Shannon Lamb, a suspect in a shooting in Gautier, is allegedly tied to the shooting at DSU. Gautier Police Detective Matthew Hoggatt said the suspect left Gautier in a green SUV, and the car has been located at DSU. He said police at Delta State believe that vehicle belongs to their suspect.

The victim in Gautier has not been identified pending notification of next of kin, but authorities told reporters that Lamb and the victim were romantically involved.

Cleveland Police Department confirmed the victim was taken by ambulance, and the suspect is on the loose. The campus is currently on lockdown. The Cleveland School District says all local schools are on lockdown.

Governor Phil Bryant has reached out to University officials, said spokeswoman Nicole Webb.

"Governor Bryant is in communication with President LaForge and with Department of Public Safety Commissioner Albert Santa Cruz. The governor has offered the full support and assistance of DPS, including the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation and the Mississippi Highway Patrol," she said.

Students have reported seeing a SWAT team on campus. Students inside one building have reported that they've been moved to another floor during the search for the shooter.

Cleveland police say they are also assisting Delta State police with the investigation, and neither department would confirm whether there is or is not still an active shooter on campus. DSU police referred the question to communications and marketing.

Someone who answered the phone in the communications department said they cannot release information at this time, but will update the media when they can.

Officials said the Bolivar County Sheriff's Department and Mississippi Bureau of Investigations are also helping with the search. Officials confirm they are still looking for a shooter.

Delta State has released further Twitter advisories telling people to stay inside and away from windows.

Caleb Smith was on his way to get breakfast when he got the alert.

"I was just walking toward the building when I got the message, so I turned around and went back to my room," he said. "I have no idea where the shooter could have been."

Smith's roommate was in the building next to the shooting. He said he has not heard from him yet.

Delta State has been in class for about a month, Smith said. More than 4,000 students are enrolled at DSU, located in Cleveland.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.