When the Rubidoux High School football team runs on the field for its big rivalry game against Patriot High School this week, it will be with heavy hearts.

The players are mourning the loss of a beloved former teammate, Anthony Camacho, who died Tuesday, Sept. 15, from injuries he suffered in a crash with a Rialto police car two days earlier.

Camacho, a 19-year-old who graduated in June, was walking across Cactus Avenue near Rosewood Street in Rialto about 9 p.m. when he was struck. He suffered major head, neck and body trauma, Rialto police Capt. Randy De Anda said.

The officer was driving to a non-emergency call about a suspicious person at an apartment complex and didn’t have the car’s lights or siren on when he struck Camacho, who was outside a crosswalk and wearing dark clothes, De Anda said.

The officer had turned to look at another pedestrian crossing the street at the same time and didn’t have time to stop before hitting Camacho, De Anda said. The other person was Camacho’s brother-in-law, De Anda said, but added he didn’t have his name or age.

The officer, whose name was not available, got out of the car and started performing first aid. Paramedics took Camacho to Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton, where he died at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday, police and coroner’s officials said.

The officer, who has worked for the department about two years, faces no disciplinary action, De Anda said.

“It was a very tragic and unfortunate accident,” De Anda said.

Rialto police have turned over the investigation to the California Highway Patrol, which declined to provide additional details.

Camacho’s death hit hard at Rubidoux High. Athletic Director Ed Luna said the Jurupa Valley school set up a crisis center with counselors ready to talk to grieving students. Football players were devastated and asked to cancel Monday’s practice so they could visit Camacho in the hospital.

“I’m blown away,” said former football coach Jason McMains, who coached Camacho three years. “It’s very upsetting. I’m still in a daze about it.”

Camacho was a role model who never missed practice and took younger players under his wing, he said. He enlisted in the Army and was set to leave in a few days, McMains said.

Camacho also threw shot put and discus on the track team.

Though coroner’s officials listed him as a Bloomington resident, football and track coach Patrick Thompson said he had been living in Jurupa Valley with a teammate.

“He didn’t come from a stable family background,” Thompson said. “The odds were against him and he really fought hard. He was undersized, but he made up for it with his heart and effort.”

Thompson said the team is dedicating the rest of its season to Camacho. The school plans to honor him with 59 seconds of silence before Friday’s game. The 59 seconds represent his old uniform number.

“He was loved by everyone, he was a big brother to everyone,” McMains said.

Contact the writer: 951-368-9292 or swall@pressenterprise.com