On September 14, 2015, officers responded to a disturbance at a local hotel located in Plano, Texas. This call originated from the hotel clerk who received multiple complaints about possibly three subjects who were yelling and fighting in a room. The initial officer arrived and when exiting the elevator on his way to the room, he heard a loud crash like an object being thrown across the room, and what sounded like several people yelling.

Additional officers arrived they knocked on the door but received no response. Based on the circumstances, the officers attempted to enter the room with a key but the door was secured from the inside. The supervising sergeant went to retrieve breaching tools while the remaining officers continued to hear yelling and objects being thrown around the room.

Officers forced their way into the room and found it to be in disarray and the subject, later determined to be Weldon Baker, was standing against the far wall sweating profusely and appeared to have vomit or urine on his clothing. Mr. Baker appeared disoriented and was mumbling and yelling unintelligently and the officers realized this was a possible overdose/excited delirium situation. Mr. Baker failed to follow the officer's commands and attempted to open the window or bang on the window as if he was trying to break the glass to jump out of the third floor room. Officers grabbed Mr. Baker and he struggled as they attempted to put handcuffs on him. He was placed on his side and was being held down as the officers waited for FD personnel to arrive.

During this time, Mr. Baker continued to struggle and would go back and forth between periods of

lucidity and screaming erratically. The officers attempted to speak to Mr. Baker and he stated that he had been smoking "wet" marijuana, which is marijuana laced with PCP. He also stated that he had a history of heart attacks and had surgery but was not able to give details on the type of surgery performed.

FD personnel quickly arrived and administered medication in an effort to sedate Mr. Baker. Mr. Baker stopped struggling within a couple of minutes and officers no longer needed to hold him down. Officers removed the handcuffs from behind his back and handcuffed him in the front so he could be placed on a gurney. FD personnel took Mr. Baker downstairs and loaded him into the ambulance to transport him to the hospital. At this time, Mr. Baker suffered what appeared to be a cardiac event and FD personnel began to perform CPR.

FD transported him to the hospital where he was pronounced dead at 5:43 a.m. The Collin County Medical Examiner was contacted and autopsy results are pending.