LEAD | The Wyoming man who engaged in a shootout with Lawrence County Sheriff’s deputies Sept. 16 in a posh subdivision south of Lead committed suicide after being hit twice by bullets fired by pursuing officers, according to the South Dakota Division of Criminal Investigation.

In a 2-inch-thick, nearly 100-page report issued Thursday morning, the DCI also revealed that Rory Gunderman, 31, of Sundance, Wyo., had stolen a pickup at gunpoint and had assembled “pipe bomb making materials” at a rural Custer County campsite before being chased by deputies and being trapped in a dead-end cul-de-sac where he shot himself in the head during the gun battle.

The report also concluded that Lawrence County Sgt. Patrick Johnson, Det. Joseph Leveque and Deputy Matthew McCroden “were justified in firing their weapon and using lethal force” in their encounter with Gunderman in the Powderhouse Pass subdivision near Deer Mountain Ski Resort, about 3 miles south of Lead.

“Based upon a thorough investigation, it was determined that all three sheriff’s deputies were justified in firing their weapons when they were fired upon,” South Dakota Attorney General Marty Jackley said Thursday afternoon. “The investigation further determined that Mr. Gunderman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head.”

The report said an autopsy showed that Gunderman was hit by three bullets: “a gunshot wound to his left arm, a grazing gunshot wound to the back of his neck and a contact gunshot wound to the right side of his head.”

According to the report, a .38 caliber bullet found in a tree at the shooting scene was fired from Gunderman’s location to the location of both Johnson and McCroden. The bullet taken from Gunderman’s head also was .38 caliber.

The two bullets “did not have enough individual characteristics to confirm that they were specifically fired from Gunderman’s revolver,” the report said, adding, “The lead bullets are consistent with the loaded rounds found on Gunderman’s person and inconsistent with duty rounds used by the deputies.”

According to the report, Gunderman had a small arsenal of weapons with him at the time of the shootout, including a .38 caliber Smith & Wesson 5-shot revolver holding five fired cartridge cases; a .22 caliber 5-shot revolver holding five loaded rounds; and a .22 caliber rifle with a folding stock.

A drug screening showed that Gunderman had used marijuana, but a blood-alcohol test was negative. The three deputies also were tested, and they showed no evidence of drug or alcohol use, the report said.

The lengthy report outlined the sequence of events that led to Gunderman’s death. On Sept. 15, the Weston County (Wyo.) Sheriff’s Office took a report of a stolen white 2008 Ford F350 pickup with Texas license plates. The pickup was reportedly stolen at gunpoint and belonged to Midwestern Services Inc., a Houston-based company specializing in the cleaning of large, above-ground storage tanks.

At 10:59 a.m. the next day, the Lawrence County Sheriff’s Office dispatch center received a report of a stolen vehicle traveling into South Dakota on Boles County Road in rural Custer County, and Johnson, Leveque and McCroden left Deadwood to search for the pickup. At about 11:12 a.m., they spotted it 3 miles south of Lead. Johnson activated his lights to try to stop the pickup, which was headed toward Lead.

The pickup then turned onto Powderhouse Trail, which dead ends within the subdivision. When the pickup stopped at the dead end, Gunderman ran into “a heavily wooded area with Sgt. Johnson pursuing on foot,” the report said. Leveque and McCroden drove their vehicles to try to intercept Gunderman, then they too joined the foot pursuit.

Gunderman stopped running in a wooded area off Rubys Way, and “the deputies reported hearing gunshots come from Gunderman’s location,” the report said. Deputies returned fire.

When the deputies got to Gunderman, he was “unconscious but breathing,” and they found a .38 caliber revolver under his body. Gunderman was air-lifted to a hospital where he later died.

The report said Johnson’s Glock duty handgun was missing four rounds; Leveque’s M16 duty rifle was missing one round; and McCroden’s AR15 duty rifle was missing four rounds.

On Sept. 17, DCI investigators did individual interviews with the three deputies, and all three “stated they feared for their life, the lives of each other and returned fire.”

Jackley said law enforcement had been tipped to Gunderman’s campsite by an area rancher who had spotted a vehicle traveling on Forest Service Trail 1174H near the South Dakota-Wyoming line.

“I think it is fair to call it a secluded location,” Jackley said.

Following the shootout, authorities secured a search warrant for the campsite in rural Custer County and discovered “crates with pipes, timers, lights, paint, batteries, and boxes of shot pellets,” the attorney general said. He declined to say what Gunderman had planned with the bomb-making materials.

“That would be speculation,” Jackley said. “At this point, I don’t think that was a determination made by the investigation. There are things you could point to — marijuana in his system — but I am not going to make a determination based on that. The investigation did not discover a note or anything that would answer that inquiry. The motive is oftentimes something that can be determined, but that was not the case in this investigation.”

While Lawrence County Sheriff Brian Dean thanked his deputies, the DCI, the state Highway Patrol, Lead and Deadwood police departments and the public for its patience, support and trust Thursday, Chief Deputy Paul Hansen said that everyone involved in the tragedy wondered what had spurred Gunderman, who once was on the University of Wyoming-Sheridan dean’s list, to take a violent path that led to his eventual suicide.

“I think everybody wishes they did know,” Hansen said. “It’s a good question.”