A gunshot from a sheriff’s helicopter and a subsequent head-on traffic collision left a home invasion suspect dead and three motorists hospitalized in San Bernardino, where the incident closed a major freeway shortly before the evening commute.

That gunfire made the incident highly unusual. Law enforcement officers rarely open fire from helicopters in the United States, say experts, some of whom can recall it happening only once or twice in more than 30 years.

The drama began when deputies tried to arrest the holdup suspect during the lunch hour Friday in Fontana.

UPDATE: Shooting from air should be ‘last resort’

The fleeing suspect sped through Fontana and San Bernardino at speeds topping 100 mph and ended up traveling the wrong way in the northbound lanes of I-215, said Deputy Olivia Bozek.

After the suspect began traveling in oncoming lanes, deputies turned over the chase to a sheriff’s helicopter crew, she said.

At some point, Bozek said, at least one shot was fired at the suspect from the helicopter.

Friday’s incident ended with the head-on collision near the Little League Drive freeway overpass in northwest San Bernardino. Involved in the crash were the suspect’s gray Chevy Tahoe and a blue Dodge Durango containing three people who had to be hospitalized.

The suspect managed to get out of the Tahoe and walked or staggered a short distance before collapsing and dying on the right shoulder of the freeway. A yellow tarpaulin was draped over his handcuffed body.

The incident closed all northbound lanes about 1 p.m. at Palm Avenue. About 4:30 p.m., northbound traffic was backed up for 5 miles past I-210. Lanes reopened about 7:30 a.m. this morning.

The closure created havoc for evening commuters and for vacationers planning on an early getaway toward Las Vegas and the Colorado River resorts.

UPDATE: ‘This is something we’ve trained for,’ authorities say

As investigators continued their work at the San Bernardino crash scene, many details of the pursuit and fatal shooting hadn’t been released. Among the unanswered questions: What sheriff’s policy, if any, applies to shooting from a helicopter? Exactly what circumstances prompted the gunfire? Who makes the decision on whether to shoot?

“It’s unusual,” retired Redlands Police Chief Jim Bueermann said of the aerial gunfire. “Not unheard of, but unusual.”

Bueermann is president of the Police Foundation, a Washington, D.C.-based organization dedicated to improving policing through innovation and science.

He has heard of only one or two such incidents, he said, and could vaguely recall only one that he thought dated back to the 1970s or early 1980s.

More recently, a Texas Department of Public Safety sharpshooter in a helicopter killed two Guatemalan immigrants in October 2012 as he tried to disable a fleeing smuggler’s speeding pickup truck near the Rio Grande Valley town of La Joya.

The legal standard for determining whether a police use-of-force incident is justified is the reasonableness of the officer’s actions, Bueermann emphasized.

Determining the answer to that question, he said, depends on many factors, including the officer’s training, experience and the facts that he or she knew at the time.

“If this (San Bernardino) shooting had been at 4 o’clock in the morning on an isolated stretch of roadway, maybe that would not have been a reasonable use of force,” Bueermann said. “But when innocent people’s lives are at risk (from a high-speed, wrong-way driver), if they had let this guy go, would he have hit somebody head-on in the car?

“And it sounds to me like that was a great likelihood.”

Every police agency sets policies to give its officers guidance on how to act, Bueermann said.

“I don’t know what the San Bernardino County sheriff’s policy is,” he said of shooting from helicopters. “It’s impossible to write policy to cover every circumstance that cops deal with.

“But it wouldn’t surprise me if it is allowed under certain controlled circumstances.”

In Friday’s case, it’s possible that a supervisor gave the shooter permission to fire, based on the danger to the public, Bueermann said. Even if the wrong-way driver were traveling at only 65 mph and the oncoming traffic was driving at the same speed, the closing rate would have been 130 mph.

“If he is going the wrong way on the freeway,” Bueermann emphasized, “he is going to kill somebody very quickly.”

But in the final analysis, he said, an officer contemplating opening fire must decide whether there is a pressing need to take that action to save a life. And that applies, he said, whether the officer is on the street, taking aim from a freeway overpass — or riding in a helicopter.

“They may get approval to do it,” Bueermann said, “but the person who pulls the trigger has to make that final decision.”