Chelcey Adami

The Californian

No charges will be filed against police officers involved in a shooting in a Sand City Target parking lot last September that left two people dead and two officers injured, the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office announced on Friday.

Around 2:47 p.m. on Sept. 21, a Target security guard was watching security surveillance when he recognized a man coming in who had made fraudulent purchases with stolen credit cards there before, according to the DA’s summary of facts on the case. The man was William Spaits, 27, of Seaside, who had driven to the store with Tina Money, 23, and Gregory Warren, 35, both also of Seaside.

Spaits had entered the store while Money and Warren remained in the vehicle parked in the store's busy lot.

The security guard called police, and Sand City Police Officers Jeff Bushnell and Larry Escobar responded to the store, arriving in separate units. The officers had been alerted to be on the lookout for Spaits and Money in connection to various other area crimes, including a residential burglary in Pebble Beach that morning.

Two killed in Salinas shooting

The uniformed officers parked and began walking separate entrances of the store.

At this time, Spaits left the store and began walking to his silver BMW where Money sat in the passenger seat and Warren sat in the back.

When Spaits saw Bushnell approach, he ran toward his vehicle.

Both officers began running toward Spaits, and Target surveillance video showed that Spaits wasn’t carrying a visible weapon nor did either officer pull out his weapon at this time, the DA’s office detailed.

The officers yelled at Spaits to stop, but he didn’t comply and instead dove headfirst through the BMW’s open passenger window while yelling “Under the mat!”

Both officers knew of Spaits and Money and their extensive criminal histories. At the time, Spaits was a wanted felon with $300,000 in arrest warrants, and Money was also wanted on $160,000 of warrants and a suspect in a theft case. Also, Escobar is related in some way to Money, who is the mother of Spaits’ child, the DA’s office detailed.

When Spaits jumped into the vehicle, landing on top of Money, Escobar began pulling at his legs to try to get him out of the vehicle as Bushnell ran to the driver’s side and pulled the keys out of the ignition.

The officers then struggled with Spaits, and at some point, Money reached under the driver’s side mat and handed a gun to Spaits, according to the DA’s office. She also struggled with the Escobar while yelling at Bushnell to let go of Spaits.

Sand City officers home from hospital after shooting

Spaits then pointed a .22 caliber gun at Escobar’s head and fired twice at the officer, striking him once on the right side of his chest. The officer collapsed outside the passenger side of the car and began to lose consciousness as he reported on the radio that shots were fired.

Spaits turned the gun toward Bushnell, firing two rounds including one that struck Bushnell once on the left side of his neck.

Escobar remained conscious as he then drew his gun, got up into a crouched position and fired it at Spaits while nearly at the same time Bushnell also fired his gun at Spaits.

Spaits died from his gunshot wounds at the scene, and Money, who was still in the passenger side with Spaits partially on top of her, was hit and also later died from gunshot wounds at the hospital.

Warren wasn’t injured in the shooting.

Both officers were hospitalized, and Bushnell was released later that day. Escobar was hospitalized overnight, and the bullet remains in his body.

Each officer had fired three times while Spaits had fired four times.

The entire incident, from the time Spaits ran to his vehicle to when Escobar fired shots, lasted just 43 seconds, according to Target surveillance video reviewed by the DA’s office. The DA’s review of the incident also included interviews with more than 40 civilian witnesses to the shooting.

In an interview, Warren said Spaits and Money had picked him up before going to stores to buy things with a stolen credit card and that Spaits and Money had smoked methamphetamine in the car on the way to Target. At the time of the shooting, Warren was arrested for a probation violation but was not involved in the shooting in any way other than being in the vehicle, according to past reports.

Toxicology results found a toxic level of methamphetamine in both Money and Spaits at the time of death, according to the DA’s summary of facts.

Home surveillance helps nab criminals

In explaining why the officers were not charged, the DA’s review referenced governing law that anybody, including a police officer, can use deadly force in self-defense or in defense of others if they reasonably believe it’s needed to defend against an imminent danger.

“At the time the officers responded to Spaits with lethal force, they both perceived Spaits as a significant threat to human life based on what they personally experienced and their previous knowledge,” the report reads, adding that both officers knew Spaits had a propensity to flee with “reckless disregard for the safety of others.”

The DA’s review also noted that Money was not an innocent bystander in the incident since she had handed Spaits the firearm and fought against the officers.