A Polk County Sheriff’s deputy shot and killed a man who was apparently armed with a stapler during a standoff Monday night.

Dominic Fuller, 34, of Haines City, was sitting in a stolen car outside a house on Delon Court in Auburndale, when deputies were called there on suspicion of illegal activity, according to the Sheriff’s Office.

As deputies approached, Fuller ran, leading them on a chase through the neighborhood.

At one point, he broke into a camper, where a woman was sleeping and demanded she give him a ride, the Sheriff’s Office said. The woman refused, so Fuller ran some more, trying to open vehicle and residential door handles on his way.

The Sheriff’s Office said at least one witness reported hearing Fuller say he had a gun, others heard him say he was armed.

Deputies eventually caught up with him about 8:50 p.m. at a house on Dixie Drive.

Fuller stood in the home’s doorway, with his right hand behind his back staring at deputies and refusing commands, according to the Sheriff’s Office.

They said he attempted to get out through a window, before returning to the open doorway, where he stood again refusing commands to put his hands up.

Deputies say Fuller lifted his right hand, holding a black and chrome object.

Thinking it was a pistol, Deputy Gabriel Reveron fired five times at Fuller.

He then immediately went back into the house and a SWAT team was called.

Fuller was found dead inside shortly after 11 p.m., the Sheriff’s Office said.

He had a gunshot wound to his upper body and a black and silver stapler next to him on the ground.

“It appears Fuller held a stapler in his hand and pointed it at deputies when ordered to surrender,” Sheriff’s spokeswoman Carrie Horstman said in a news release.

The Sheriff’s Office hired Reveron, 33, as a deputy in 2010. He has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation, which is protocol for deputy-involved shootings.

Fuller has a lengthy arrest record and was a suspect in a Sheriff’s Office shooting case from last week, Horstman said.

The car he was sitting in was stolen July 18 out of Osceola County.

sallen@tribpub.com