AKRON, Ohio -- A hookah bar owner shot by a police officer during a raid at his business died Monday at the hospital.

Omar Ali, 27, died at Akron City Hospital from the gunshot wound he suffered on Sept. 21 at the Hookah House in the 700 block of South Canton Road, according to police. The Summit County Medical Examiner has not yet officially ruled on Ali's death.

Ali's death is now the second fatal shooting by an Akron police officer within that same week. An officer shot a robbery suspect Sept. 25 behind a group of businesses on North Main Street.

The unrelated shootings remain under investigation by police, prosecutors and by internal affairs. Officials have not identified the officers.

The officer who shot Ali has been a police officer for more than 15 years. He returned to active duty this week, Akron Police Lt. Rick Edwards said.

The incident began when the 26-year-old mother of Ali's child accused Ali of choking her at the bar. The woman told police that Ali became enraged about 4 p.m. over a cellphone the woman was using.

Ali hit her in the face, choked her and threatened to kill her if she called police, according to investigators. The woman ran down the street and called police. She refused medical attention for the neck injuries the officers observed. The woman signed domestic violence charges against Ali.

Officers went to the hookah bar but Ali refused to open the door. Akron drug detectives, who were already investigating Ali on suspicion of selling drugs at the bar, and a SWAT team raided the business about 8 p.m.

Investigators broke down the front door and ordered Ali to come out with his hands in the air. Officers found Ali in the main room of the business. He refused to comply with officer's orders and reached into his back waistband, police said.

An officer fired one shot, which struck Ali in the torso. Investigators turned Ali over and found a small amount of heroin and Suboxone strips hidden in his buttocks, according to police. Police believe he was pushing the drugs further in his buttocks when he was shot.

Investigators also noted finding a gun inside the hookah bar. Ali was treated by SWAT team medics and taken to Akron City Hospital. At the time of the shooting, police said that Ali's condition was stable and that his injuries were not life threatening.

Ali remained in the hospital until his death.