Editor’s note: Dashcam video shows St. Paul police Officers Joe LaBathe and Rich McGuire arriving at the home of Philip Quinn’s girlfriend, the white house at right, in response to a 911 call. Quinn’s mother talks to McGuire about 2 minutes, 30 seconds into the video and then crosses the street away from the home. She returns to McGuire’s side of the street at the 4 minute mark. Shortly after that, McGuire backs out of the driveway and Quinn follows. Quinn raises his hand and is shot about 4 minutes, 14 seconds into the video.

Philip Quinn’s death was a tragedy and might have been averted if he had been in psychiatric treatment, but the St. Paul police officer who shot him last fall was justified under the circumstances, a grand jury decided Wednesday.

Quinn, 30, was shot and killed just before 6 p.m. Sept. 24 outside his girlfriend’s West Seventh home following a tense afternoon of 911 calls and reports that he was cutting himself, acting psychotic in the presence of his family. When officers approached him earlier in the day, Quinn fled and apparently attempted to force his way into strangers’ apartments, according to witness statements reviewed by the grand jury. Hours later he returned home still behaving erratically and armed with a screwdriver.

Quinn had been committed as mentally ill three years earlier, and when he died he had methamphetamine in his system, the autopsy showed. But officer Rich McGuire, a seven-year-veteran, had little choice but to fire when Quinn raised the screwdriver while rushing at him and Quinn’s mother, Police Chief Thomas Smith said at a news conference Thursday announcing the grand jury’s decision.

“This was a tragic event,” Smith said. “The one thing I agree with the Quinn family, if Philip Quinn would have had the opportunity to have an open bed (in a psychiatric unit) and to get some help, this tragedy probably would not have occurred.”

Quinn’s family has criticized the shooting, and demonstrators have chanted his name while protesting a string of police shootings of black and American Indian men. Quinn was a member of the White Earth Band of Ojibwe.

Smith said he was releasing the investigative data in the interests of transparency. He released 911 transcripts, witness statements and the dashcam video that captured the culmination of the day’s events.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi said he was glad police investigators did not release the video before the grand jury made its decision. He said several witnesses had to be interviewed again after initial contacts, and if they had seen the video in the meantime their statements could have been called into doubt.

“The need to know for the public, that has to be balanced with responsible investigation,” Choi said. “We do not want to in any way jeopardize the integrity of that investigation.”

Assistant Police Chief Bill Martinez walked a room full of reporters through the day’s events.

He said Quinn’s girlfriend called 911 just before 1:30 p.m. to report that Quinn was acting psychotic, had stabbed himself and claimed that he had risen from the dead. When police found him in her garage at 657 Canton St., Quinn rushed past them and fled south.

About an hour later, 911 calls came in from a nearby apartment building. A man matching Quinn’s description was trying to get into apartments and actually did enter one apartment. The occupant, who wrestled Quinn back out the door, later identified Quinn from photos.

About 5:20 p.m., Quinn’s mother called 911 to tell them Quinn had returned to his girlfriend’s residence. She called back twice more to inform them that Quinn was in the garage with a screwdriver in his hand.

Officers Joe Labathe and McGuire arrived at 5:55 p.m. Quinn’s mother told McGuire that if Quinn saw her talking to police, “he will come at me.” McGuire told her to go across the street.

The two officers approached the driveway but stayed on the sidewalk while they waited for a police dog and handler to arrive. McGuire reported Quinn was holding something in his right fist and making thrusting motions.

About four minutes after the officers arrived, Quinn’s mother crossed the street again toward where McGuire stood at the end of the driveway. Within seconds, the video shows McGuire backing away from the driveway and retreating down the sidewalk with Quinn in pursuit. Quinn raises his right hand and McGuire fires four quick shots.

One shot hit him in the raised right arm and the other hit him in the iliac vein in his hip, causing him to bleed to death.