Everett Merrill

@EverettMerrill

Rodney Jencsik was shot outside his home in Avenel following a nearly four-hour standoff with police

He emerged from his home carrying what appeared to be a gun, authorities said, and was shot by police.

The incident began earlier in the day when he stabbed a man and woman in Old Bridge, police said

WOODBRIDGE A 3 ½ hour standoff with police ended Monday night when a man armed with what appeared to be a gun was shot outside his Avenel home, hours after he stabbed two people, one of whom died from her wounds, according to Middlesex County Prosecutor Andrew C. Carey.

Rodney Jencsik, 50, a resident of a trailer home park on Freddie Avenue in Avenel, was shot at approximately 7:30 p.m. He was taken to Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, where he died at about 8:30 p.m.

The shooting ended a standoff, which began at the man’s home at about 4 p.m., an hour after he apparently stabbed a man and a woman at a home on Englishtown Road in Old Bridge shortly before 3 p.m.

The woman, Dina Marie Heil, 46, of Parlin, was taken to Perth Amboy Regional Hospital, Old Bridge Division, where she died 4:35 p.m. The man, whose name is being withheld, is being treated at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital for stab wounds suffered in the attack.

Nearly 40 rounds fired in Warren Township standoff

Carey said following a call at 2:35 p.m., the Old Bridge police arrived at the home on Englishtown Road and posted an alert for the suspect, who later was seen in Woodbridge driving a Jaguar.

Woodbridge police attempted to stop Jencsik, who fled. Police followed him to the Freddie Avenue home, where members of the Woodbridge Police Department and later the Woodbridge Police Department Special Operations Team surrounded the home and attempted to convince the man to surrender.

When Jencsik eventually emerged in the doorway of the house, he was brandishing what appeared to be a gun and was shot by police.

A year before Woodbridge wife was killed, husband was charged with slashing her — and courts let him go

An investigation of the shooting is being conducted by the Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office. The New Jersey Office of the Attorney General has been notified of the shooting in accordance with use of force guidelines.

An investigation into the details surrounding the stabbings also is active and is continuing.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office at 732-745-3300.

Staff Writer Everett Merrill: 908-243-6606; emerrill@mycentraljersey.com

Armed woman taken into custody after standoff in Woodbridge to avoid eviction

Grand jury clears Old Bridge cop in fatal shooting, but family suing