EAST CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The family of a 22-year-old man who died after being hit by an East Cleveland police car is suing the city and the officer who was behind the wheel.

The wrongful death lawsuit in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court says that the officer who hit Christopher Lashon Kimble, Jr. with his car was driving recklessly and that the city failed to maintain its streets, police cars and traffic control devices.

The family is seeking at least $25,000 in damages.

Kyle Pettus, 35, was driving the cruiser on Oct. 3 when it struck Kimble, who was crossing Superior Avenue near Emily Street. Police said Pettus was driving to the scene of a car crash.

A complaint filed Feb. 12 by attorney Michael D. Goldstein, accuses Pettus of speeding through an intersection known to be heavily populated by pedestrians. He also failed to use emergency lights or sirens, and was driving a car with one broken headlight, the suit says.

The city is also at fault for failing to maintain the intersection, according to court documents. An initial crash report from the State Highway Patrol said multiple street lights in the area were burnt out, the painted crosswalks were "worn out and difficult to see" and all of the crosswalk signals were broken.

The suit says the city failed to properly train its police officers, including Pettus, who had only been on the force for a year at the time of the crash.

The complaint also cites the lack of video evidence from the incident, saying Pettus "intentionally and/or negligently destroyed or failed to record and preserve evidence, including but not limited to, body camera footage."

East Cleveland Sgt. Scott Gardner told cleveland.com in October that Pettus's dashboard camera may have malfunctioned during the crash. He told a reporter that the computer connected to the police car's dash cam powered down right before the car struck Kimble.

Police also said Pettus didn't turn on his body-worn camera until after the collision. Cleveland.com has submitted multiple requests for that footage.

Pettus was suspended after the crash, East Cleveland Police Chief Michael Cardilli said on Friday.

This story has been updated.