Advertisement Two teens killed in police chase in Watertown identified Friends hold vigil for Bradley Chavez, Donovan Cagney Share Copy Link Copy

Two teenagers were killed early Wednesday morning in a police chase that ended in a fatal crash in Watertown. Friends of the teens killed, Bradley Chavez, 17, and Donovan Cagney, 17, gathered Wednesday evening remember them.VIDEO: Two teenage boys killed in high-speed chaseDozens of Watertown teens raised candles and lighters at the vigil.“I couldn't believe it. I still don't. I wish that somebody would tell me that this is a dream and that they're not gone,” Cagney’s girlfriend, Destiny Buss said.Friends said three girls, also Watertown High School students, were in the back seat.“My best friend was in the car. She's the one who is, like, less injured than everyone else,” said Taylor Podlesnk, a friend of the victims. Two other girls were critically injured.Jefferson County Sheriff Paul Milbrath said deputies conducted a traffic stop at 1:57 a.m. on County Road E, south of Watertown.Milbrath said around 2:13 a.m., the driver of the vehicle drove off at a high rate of speed and was headed north toward Watertown.He said the vehicle lost control on a curve on Concord Drive near Richards Avenue, and crashed into a tree near Brian Court."I started to hear tires squealing like they were sliding, like a car was sliding, so I ran to the window and pulled it open, and just at that time, I heard the pop and saw the car just come to a rest. It had just hit the tree and wrapped around the tree," witness Julia Heiman said. Police have not commented on the reason for the chase.According to online court records, both of the boys killed had open felony cases for burglary and narcotics possession and other charges for theft and criminal damage to property. Cagney's girlfriend said the pair had a lot of friends. “He didn't make the best decisions. He was a troubled kid, but he always had a kind heart, and he always helped everyone even though had had his own problems,” Buss said.The investigation has been turned over to the Wisconsin State Patrol and the state's Division of Criminal Investigations.If you see breaking news, send your photos and videos to ulocal@wisn.com or use the hashtag #WISN12.9737608