Chelcey Adami

The Californian

No charges will be filed against a Monterey police officer who fatally shot a homeless man in Portola Plaza last October after the man pointed a replica gun at people.

Around 2:41 p.m. on Oct. 6, Monterey police received calls regarding a man acting irrationally with what appeared to be a gun in his waistband near the area of the Indian Summer Hookah bar and Portola Hotel.

In several calls, people reported that the man had a gun and was pointing it at people, according to a summary of facts from the Monterey County District Attorney’s Office.

Witnesses within Peter B’s Brew Pub had heard that there was a person outside with a gun and locked the business doors, according to the DA’s Office. At one point, the man tried to enter the pub’s locked doors and then peered through the windows as employees hid inside.

Monterey Police Officer Zach Reed arrived to the scene alone, and as other officers were on the way, he confronted the man, Donald Thomas Miller II, 39, a transient from the Salinas area.

Miller held what appeared to be a silver revolver in his hand, and after seeing the officer, he reportedly “quickly advanced” on the officer while raising the gun toward the officer, according to the DA’s summary of facts on the case. Reed repeatedly asked Miller to drop the gun before he fired seven shots, and Miller was shot once in the abdomen, once in the left lower chest, three times in the back, once on his left hand and once on his left wrist.

The officer then kicked the revolver away, handcuffed Miller and began to provide first aid. Miller died at the scene. A toxicology screening found no drugs or alcohol in his system.

Investigators later determined that the gun was actually a replica gun stolen from the Monterey Harbor House on the day of the shooting.

“Although the gun was a replica, the law of self-defense does not require an actual lethal threat,” Monterey County District Attorney Dean D. Flippo wrote in a news statement. “Instead, it requires a reasonable belief that deadly force is necessary.”

In announcing that no charges would be filed against the officer, Flippo cited that relevant reasons for not filing charges include that Miller had already brandished the gun at bystanders and pulled the trigger before police arrived, he refused to comply with police orders, he also pulled a gun and raised it toward the officer, civilians were close by, and he could have surrendered at any time.

“The law requires an assessment from a reasonable officer on the scene, rather than from 20/20 hindsight … Miller’s actions were intransigent, reckless, and irrational,” Flippo continued.

On the day of the shooting, the officer’s uniform included an audio recorder connected to his on-car camera, which was activated when he responded to the call but captured no video of the incident since his vehicle wasn’t facing the area of the shooting.

Miller had a history of mental health issues, and the DA’s press release on its findings included details of Miller’s past interactions with law enforcement.

In 2005, he was detained by the Santa Clara Sheriff’s Department for a 72-hour mental health evaluation after acting strange while in possession of a knife.

The next year, he was arrested for stabbing both his father and himself before being sent to a psychiatric hospital.

In May 2015, he broke several ceramic pots at the Del Monte Shopping Center and was detained for another 72-hour evaluation, and in July, he was detained again for strange behavior.

Just days before the shooting, he also trespassed onto a property in Pacific Grove but was not arrested in the incident, and the day before the shooting, two separate reports of suspicious behavior were taken on him by the Monterey Police Department.

When Reed responded to the call on the day of the shooting, he recalled that days before, a person had reported to police that Miller had “left a series of weird voice messages” and requested a welfare check, according to the DA’s office. Reed had been unable to locate Miller that day.

The day of the shooting, Miller caused a disturbance at a McDonald’s and refused to leave. He was arrested but then released with a citation.

The DA’s office noted that this history would be considered potentially admissible in a criminal prosecution and cited evidence code that state “an accused who claims self-defense may prove the dangerous character of the deceased to show the deceased was probably the aggressor. Admissibility of this evidence does not depend on whether the officer actually knew about the decedent’s character for violence.”