A 44-year-old man was shot and killed early Sunday morning after he pointed a gun at officers in Lake Charles, police said.The Lake Charles Police Department said the incident happened after 1 a.m. at a home in the 700 block of Contour Drive.Officers received a 911 call and heard a disturbance in the background. Lake Charles police met with a woman, identified as Venus Lau, in the front yard of the home.Moments later, the officers found Venus Lau's husband, Kevin Lau, standing in the doorway with a pistol. The LCPD said the officers and Venus Lau backed away from the home and heard a gunshot come from the home.Kevin Lau came out of the home and pointed his pistol toward officers and refused to obey their directions to drop his weapon. He continued to point his gun at the officers until they opened fire on him, the LCPD said.Paramedics took Kevin Lau to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. No officers were injured during the incident.Officials said the investigation will be turned over to the Louisiana State Police.

A 44-year-old man was shot and killed early Sunday morning after he pointed a gun at officers in Lake Charles, police said.

The Lake Charles Police Department said the incident happened after 1 a.m. at a home in the 700 block of Contour Drive.

Advertisement

Officers received a 911 call and heard a disturbance in the background. Lake Charles police met with a woman, identified as Venus Lau, in the front yard of the home.

Moments later, the officers found Venus Lau's husband, Kevin Lau, standing in the doorway with a pistol. The LCPD said the officers and Venus Lau backed away from the home and heard a gunshot come from the home.

Kevin Lau came out of the home and pointed his pistol toward officers and refused to obey their directions to drop his weapon. He continued to point his gun at the officers until they opened fire on him, the LCPD said.

Paramedics took Kevin Lau to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. No officers were injured during the incident.

Officials said the investigation will be turned over to the Louisiana State Police.