Amy Clarke Burns

aburns@greenvillenews.com

A Simpsonville man is dead and another person injured after a police shooting early Sunday morning in Taylors.

The incident happened at 159 Carver Road where a large group of people was gathered in a building, according to a statement from Greenville County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Lt. Ty Miller and information from the Greenville County Coroner's Office.

One person ran from inside the building and began firing at deputies just as officers were executing a search warrant, Miller said.

Deputies returned fire.

Bernard Brandon Powers, 23, of 6 Hidden Pond Ct. in Simpsonville, was pronounced dead at the scene of multiple gunshot wounds, according to Greenville County Coroner Park Evans.

The injured man was transported to the hospital. No information was available on his condition

The shooting happened around 2:20 a.m., Miller said.

The building, a metal garage building in the midst of an otherwise residential area, was cordoned off late Sunday morning with police evidence markers littering the parking area just outside the building.

Rashad Bennett, a nearby resident, was at the scene during the shooting. More than a dozen people had gathered in the former garage, turned "man cave," to watch college football games, he said.

When he and others in the building became aware of a police presence outside, several people went out to find out what was going on, he said.

The next part happened in a matter of seconds, he said. He remembered being told by police to get down. He heard someone shout, "He's got a gun," referring to another individual in the group.

Bennett was on his knees when the shooting started.

"I heard bullets flying by my head," he said.

Bennett said he did not know either victim.

A deputy was grazed by two bullets in the shooting but was uninjured, Miller said.

The number of police involved in the shooting has not yet been released. Jonathan Smith with the Sheriff's Office said more information would be made available in the coming days.

The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is investigating the incident, standard procedure for police-involved shootings.

According to a SLED statement, there is no dash cam or body cam video of the incident.

This was the state's 36th officer-involved shooting this year, the third involving a Greenville County deputy. In 2014, there were 42 officer-involved shooting incidents in South Carolina, three of which involved a Greenville County Sheriff’s Department deputy sheriff, the SLED statement said.