Chelcey Adami

The Californian

A Castroville man died after an officer-involved shooting broke out in the Seaside Automotive Center Wednesday morning when a man opened fire on officers and officers fired back, according to authorities.

Around 11 a.m., Seaside police received a call of a man in the area creating a disturbance near Cal's Chrysler Dodge Jeep RAM, and as officers tried to talk to the man, he fired on them, according to Seaside Police Chief Vicki Myers.

It's believed that one officer then shot the man, and he was taken to a hospital shortly after. Michael Donald Clark, 59, of Castroville died at Natividad Medical Center in Salinas around 1:24 p.m., and no officers were injured in the shooting, according to the Monterey County District Attorney's Office.

Due to the early stages of the investigation, authorities declined to provide many details of how the shooting occurred, the type of gun involved and more.

The Monterey County District Attorney's Office is investigating the incident, and District Attorney Dean Flippo said that it appears that the man was "acting less than normal" when someone called for police assistance. Flippo said he expected to be able to provide further details by Thursday.

A nearby employee, who declined to be identified, said that he heard about five shots in rapid succession at the time of the shooting. A large area of the auto center was taped off by police as they recovered evidence such as bullet casings and video footage as well as interviewed any potential witnesses.

The Seaside Police Department will also be doing an administrative investigation of the incident, Myers said.

"We employ very good people, they get the best training and they do everything they can to handle the situation with the least amount of force necessary," Myers said. "Unfortunately when people use guns and they point them at officers and they shoot them at officers, they take those options out of our hands because we have to respond."

The officer-involved shooting is the third one on the Monterey Peninsula in about three weeks.

On Sept. 21, two people died and two officers were injured during a shooting in the Sand City Target parking lot, and on Oct.6, a Monterey Police officer fatally shot a man who was reportedly acting erratically and holding a nonfunctioning antique revolver near Portola Plaza.

"It's a real to concern to me as a district attorney, and I'm sure to the chief, is that a number of these people are resorting to deadly force. They're firing on the officers, and we've certainly had more than our share here in Monterey County," Flippo said.

He said one thing he has noticed is that in nearly all of the officer-involved shootings in Monterey County, the person has been under the influence of intoxicants or been suffering from mental health issues.

More information on the case will be provided as it becomes available.

Contact Public Safety Reporter Chelcey Adami at 831-754-4261 or cadami@thecalifornian.com