<p>Collier County sheriff's deputies investigate a carjacking incident that led to a shooting outside Sunshine Ace Hardware in East Naples on Oct. 14, 2015. (Carolina Hidalgo/Staff)</p>

SHARE Collier County sheriff's deputies investigate a carjacking incident that led to a shooting in East Naples on Oct. 14, 2015. Deputies blocked Tamiami Trail East at Treviso Bay after giving chase and stopping the suspect. (Carolina Hidalgo/Staff) Collier County sheriff's deputies investigate a carjacking incident that led to a shooting outside Sunshine Ace Hardware in East Naples on Oct. 14, 2015. (Carolina Hidalgo/Staff) Collier County sheriff's deputies investigate a carjacking incident that led to a shooting in East Naples on Oct. 14, 2015. Deputies blocked Tamiami Trail East at Treviso Bay after giving chase and stopping the suspect. (Carolina Hidalgo/Staff) Collier County sheriff's deputies investigate a carjacking incident that led to a shooting in East Naples on Oct. 14, 2015. Deputies blocked Tamiami Trail East at Treviso Bay after giving chase and stopping the suspect. (Carolina Hidalgo/Staff)

By Jessica Lipscomb of the Naples Daily News

A Collier County woman with a history of mental health and substance abuse issues died Wednesday afternoon following a shooting that involved deputies.

Michelle Marie Burg, 46, was taken to a hospital, where she later died. The Collier County Sheriff’s Office did not say specifically if the shooting led to Burg’s death.

The confrontation between Burg and deputies began at 12:22 p.m., when someone reported an attempted carjacking at a Sunshine Ace Hardware store at 4433 U.S. 41 E.

Cpl. Efrain Hernandez, a Sheriff’s Office spokesman, said a woman, later identified as Burg, tried to carjack a tractor-trailer and got into a struggle with the driver.

Michael Davis, of Cape Coral, was driving west along U.S. 41 East when he saw a woman trying to steal the semi-truck at gunpoint in the parking lot. Davis heard one gunshot fired.

When that failed, Davis said the woman tried to flag him down as he turned into the parking lot of an adjacent business. Davis said an elderly woman fended off the woman’s second attempted carjacking.

After the second failed attempt, Hernandez said Burg then ran to a nearby Perkins, where she carjacked an elderly couple. Deputies began a vehicle chase down U.S. 41 East, saying Burg refused to stop.

About two miles down the road, witnesses in the Treviso Bay community said they saw a gray sedan collide with patrol cars at the entrance to the community near a tree in the median. Hernandez said there was a confrontation that ended with the exchange of gunfire.

The Sheriff’s Office did not provide information Wednesday identifying who fired the first shot or regarding how many shots were fired. No deputies were injured.

The deputies who discharged their guns were placed on administrative leave, a Sheriff’s Office policy. An internal investigation will be conducted to determine if they acted in line with the agency’s use of force policies.

Burg was most recently arrested Sept. 22 after deputies pulled her over for swerving while driving. Burg fled the traffic stop then locked her doors and swallowed several pills when she was finally forced to stop by a trooper and a deputy who boxed her in, according to an arrest report.

She was treated for an overdose at Physicians Regional Medical Center on Collier Boulevard, where a blood test showed she had a blood-alcohol level of .030, as well as cocaine and opiates in her system.

Burg was arrested to face charges of DUI, fleeing/eluding law enforcement, obstruction, and battery and assault on law enforcement officers. She was released from jail Sept. 28 after posting bond and was next due in court Monday morning for an arraignment.

Burg’s turbulent history has been documented in court records for nearly three decades. Her earliest arrest in Collier County came in 1989, when she was arrested on suspicion of trafficking cocaine. The charge was later dropped, according to court records. Over the next 25 years, she’d be arrested on charges of drug possession, grand theft, check forgery, disorderly intoxication and driving under the influence.

On at least two occasions, Burg was involuntarily committed to mental health facilities for treatment. In April 1996, a judge ordered Burg into treatment for drug dependency. More recently, she was involuntarily committed to the David Lawrence Center in October 2012. Court records say Burg was depressed and had been threatening suicide. Psychiatrists described her behavior as unpredictable and her judgment as impaired, saying they feared she would harm herself or others.

Deputies first identified Burg as Wednesday with the name Michelle Esch. In November 2013, Burg married a 78-year-old man named James Esch, but the marriage was later annulled and declared invalid by a judge.

Court records say Burg worked as a caregiver for Esch’s late wife but was fired by the couple’s son after she was caught stealing prescription pills and money from the couple, according to court records. Tom Esch said Wednesday that Burg married his father to perpetuate elder fraud. The news of her death Wednesday did not come as a shock, he said.

“This was the type of behavior that was inevitable to happen with the drug abuse and violence and everything that’s happened,” he said.

Reached by phone Wednesday night, Burg’s mother declined to comment.

Staff Writer Kristine Gill contributed to this story.