PARMA HEIGHTS, Ohio -- A suspect in the armed robbery of a pizza shop was shot dead by police Thursday afternoon on Interstate 480 in Cleveland after a high-speed chase, officials said.

This Papa John's pizza shop, on the 6600 block of Pearl Road in Parma Heights, was robbed at gunpoint Thursday afternoon. Following the robbery, the robber led police on a high-speed chase that resulted in a crash on Interstate 480.

The chase was sparked after the Papa John's pizza shop on Pearl Road in Parma Heights was robbed at gunpoint by a 27-year-old man, Parma Heights Det. Sgt. Steve Scharschmidt said at a press conference Thursday night.

The dead man's identity has not been released by the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner's Office.

The robber grabbed $89 from the pizza shop after brandishing what appeared to be a 9mm semi-automatic handgun, Scharschmidt said. The robber then sped off in a white pickup truck with a black tarp covering the bed.

When the 911 call came into the new regional call center for the Parma Heights, Parma and Brooklyn police departments, all three dispatched officers to the scene. As the officers were leaving the center, they saw what appeared to be the robbery suspect's truck on Pearl Road, Scharschmidt said.

Police said they tried to pull the truck over before it sped off. Officers then began the chase, which weaved through several communities before reaching the highway. The chase lasted about six minutes, Scharschmidt said. He said he didn't know what speeds were reached.

Scharschmidt said he could not comment on whether there was any thought of discontinuing the chase at some point. The Parma Heights officer in charge, who has not been named, was making the decisions, Scharschmidt said.

"All they were doing was take someone into custody who had committed a violent offense," Scharschmidt said.

The pickup truck crashed into the median on I-480 east near the Jennings Freeway, within Cleveland's city limits. Police said the driver got out of the truck with a gun in his hand. Four Parma Heights police officers, one Parma police officer and one Brooklyn police officer fired their weapons, Scharschmidt said.

It was not immediately clear Thursday night how many shots were fired or which officer fired the fatal shot, Scharschmidt said. The suspect did not fire his weapon.

The Parma Heights police cars that participated had active dashcams, Scharschmidt said. Dashcam video will not be available until Friday at the earliest, he said.

It is unclear whether there is dashcam footage from Brooklyn police, and the Parma police cars did not have active dashcams, Parma police Lt. Kevin Riley said.

Because the shots were fired within Cleveland, Cleveland police's Use of Deadly Force Investigation Unit will handle that portion of the ongoing investigation. It is unknown if the officers who fired their weapons have been placed on leave.

The crash closed the all eastbound lanes of I-480 at Ridge Road until 5:30 p.m. Thursday as investigators collected evidence, including shell casings.