Rick Lee

rlee@ydr.com

York County District Attorney Tom Kearney has determined that the police shooting of De'Quan Lynn Williams was justifiable homicide.

Williams, 28, was shot and killed by two York City Police officers Oct. 17 after he reportedly threw a knife at the officers and then charged at them.

Kearney reached his conclusion of justifiable homicide despite the two officers declining to cooperate with the ensuing investigation and a purported eyewitness alleging Williams had his hands in the air when he was hit with a Taser and then shot.

Former NBA player Chris Herren shares story

Police had been summoned to the 1000 block of Kelly Drive in York when Williams' mother, Jacqueline Michel Larry, called 911 to have her son involuntarily committed for mental health issues. Larry later told investigators her son had been diagnosed with schizophrenia, was not taking his medications and had become combative.

She also told the 911 dispatcher that she did not know if Williams was armed but that "sometimes he does grab a knife."

Officer Stephen Aderhold and Officer Jeremy Mayer were dispatched and found Williams outside the Kelly Drive residence. Williams refused to comply with the officers' orders to drop the knife and get on the ground, according to a news release from Kearney. One officer deployed a Taser at Williams, and when the man still refused to comply and moved toward them, both officers fired.

Williams was shot in the right shoulder and chest. Bullets struck his heart, liver and diaphragm, according to autopsy findings.

The police-involved shooting was investigated by the Pennsylvania State Police at the request of Kearney and the York City Police department.

Kearney reached his conclusion of justifiable homicide after reviewing the state police report, which included statements from Larry; her boyfriend, Donald Ehrhart Jr.; Williams' grandmother; and several eyewitnesses.

Ehrhart, in a followup interview with state police, said that Williams had his hands in the air when he was shot. Ehrhart told investigators that both officers were holding black weapons on Williams but that he could not tell a Taser from a firearm.

Erhart said that Williams "took his hands out of his pockets and put them in the air," according to Kearney's media release. "At that time, he was Tased, he stumbled, and then he was shot at three times."

Kearney noted, however, that "others recalled the incident differently." Three other witnesses told investigators they heard the officers ordering Williams to drop his weapon, put his hands in the air and get on the ground.

All three witnesses said Williams refused to comply, made a motion toward the police with his hands and then moved toward the officers.

Investigators found a silver kitchen knife with a black handle in the street across from the driveway of the Kelly Drive home where Williams had been standing when he confronted police.

Cops bust 7 in Delta area for drug trafficking

Aderhold and Mayer declined to be interviewed by state police on the advice of their union attorney, Ed Paskey.

"We are glad that the Pennsylvania State Police and the district attorney's office ruled that officers Mayer and Aderhold acted justifiably," Paskey said Wednesday. "Mayer and Aderhold acted professionally and responded exactly as they were trained."

Kearney noted in his findings that, in accordance with a 1967 U.S. Supreme Court decision, officers involved in shootings have a right not to be interviewed by investigators. Additionally, the officers must comply with their department's internal investigation but any statements made cannot be used against them in court.

Paskey said both officers were "thoroughly interviewed" by the city police department's internal affairs division. He said state police were welcome to review those statements with the understanding that the officers' rights under the 1967 Supreme Court decision would be upheld.

Paskey said the state police, recognizing the officers' statements cannot be used against them, typically do not review the statements.

"Opting not to be interviewed under this set of circumstances doesn't mean being uncooperative," Paskey said. "It's a non-issue, really,"

In his official conclusion, Kearney stated, "The cause of death is determined to be multiple gunshot wounds to the torso. The manner of death is determined to be justifiable homicide. The matter is now closed."

In 2010, York City Police charged Williams with aggravated assault for allegedly stabbing an East Maple Street man in the head. Williams was found incompetent to stand trial and was placed in a state mental facility, according to county court records.

In 2013, the charge was withdrawn by the district attorney's office because the victim had moved out of state and the prosecution could not proceed. Williams was released from state institution under the supervision of the county probation department that year.