Police officers shot Garfield Brown only after he threatened their lives by twice ramming his car into one of their vehicles, authorities said Friday.

Brown, a 30-year-old fugitive wanted for murder in New York and Connecticut, was shot and killed by four undercover officers Thursday afternoon. He was killed near the exit of the crowded Kmart Super Center on Bridford Parkway.Brown was armed, but authorities would not say whether he used his weapon or pointed it at officers.

``Mr. Brown violently resisted arrest by ramming an officer's car twice trying to get away,' Greensboro police Sgt. Craig McMinn said at a Friday press conference.

Officers first got word on May 3 that Brown was in the area visiting friends. On Thursday, police received a tip from a confidential source that Brown was at the Kmart Super Center.

Authorities went to the shopping center and managed to trap Brown before he could leave the parking lot, Greensboro police Capt. J.K. Davis said.

``When they got him stuck there, they thought it was best not to let him get away,' Davis said.

After Brown rammed the unmarked car, officers opened fire, police said. Davis would not say how many shots were fired or how many times Brown had been shot. There were at least 20 bullet casings on the ground near the site of the shooting, and several witnesses said the officers fired numerous shots.

``Those guys, they unloaded,' said Rick Quimby, who was sitting at a bus stop about 40 feet from the site of the shooting. ``It was four of them with (handguns) ... I think he was hit by 25 shots.'

Authorities would only identify one of the officers involved in the shooting: Clarence Schoolfield, an 11-year veteran of the Greensboro Police Department. High Point police and the U.S. Marshals Service officials said it was against their department's policies to release the names of officers involved in shootings.

Davis said authorities are just starting their investigation and might not finish it for weeks. Guilford County District Attorney Stuart Albright said it was too early to say whether the officers acted appropriately.

``I am not reaching a decision about anything yet,' Albright said. ``As always with any use of deadly force by a law enforcement officer, there will be a full investigation of all agencies involved. Once that is complete, I will review the investigation and then decide what to do about the use of deadly force.

``Getting out my crystal ball, usually it takes about a month or so at least to get the report, then it will usually take about one to three weeks for me to review the report and decide.'

Brown was wanted for the January 2001 shooting death of Kelvin Parks in New Haven, Conn., according to authorities. Brown robbed him before killing him, authorities said.

New York City police also wanted Brown in connection with the August 1999 shooting death of Patrick Harris in Queens. New York Detective Mike O'Sullivan said Friday that Brown and Harris got into a fight over money, with Brown possibly robbing Harris. Later that day, Harris tried to get his money back.

``When (Harris) rolled up the block, Garfield took the first step, basically beat him to the draw,' O'Sullivan said.

Officials from the U.S. Marshals Service on Friday defended their decision to try to arrest a murder suspect in the middle of one of the busiest areas of Greensboro, saying it was ``the safest way to arrest him.'

``Decisions have to be made based on the information you have at the time,' said Tom Morefield, operations supervisor for the U.S. Marshals North Carolina Middle District office. ``As you are looking at the case, you look for the best appropriate time to arrest the individual. We made a decision based on what we had at the time.'

Morefield said most of the shoppers at the center Thursday were either inside the store or far from the shooting and were not in great danger.

``If you look at the parking lot, the store, the least activity was in the area where he was arrested at,' Morefield said.\ \ Contact Phillip Reese at 373-7021 or at preese@news-record.com