Linn County Attorney Jerry Vander Sanden cleared two Cedar Rapids police officers in an officer involved shooting. In an official report, Vander Sanden said the actions of Officers Lucas Jones and Bryson Garringer were justified.

They were involved in the fatal shooting of 21-year-old Jonathan Gossman on October 20, 2015.

The report goes into great detail into what led up to the shooting. It shows Officer Garringer was monitoring pseudoephedrine purchases at a Walgreens Drugstore located at 3325 16th Avenue SW along with Officer Brandon Boesenberg. Both officers were in an unmarked car and wearing plain clothes along with police vests with the word “police” in bold print.

The report shows pseudoephedrine purchases were made by Gossman along with another person in a pickup truck around 10 p.m. Four people in all were in or around the vehicle during the purchases.

When the truck left the Walgreens, Officers Garringer and Boesenberg followed in their vehicle. One of four people inside the pickup truck was dropped off at a convenience store, and the truck continued on.

Officers eventually pulled the vehicle over in the 3200 block of Ravenwood Terrace NW. The driver and a front seat passenger were eventually asked to step out of the vehicle. Another officer, Sergeant Nathan Juilfs, arrived as part of the investigation and called in a K-9 officer to assist with a drug investigation. Officer Lucas Jones answered the call with his K-9.

The report shows during the investigation, one of the truck’s occupants told officers there was a shotgun under the back seat of the pickup truck where Gossman was still sitting. Officers asked Gossman to exit the vehicle, but the report shows he defiantly refused.

After Officer Boesenberg and Sgt. Juilfs opened the door, Gossman stepped out, and the report shows Gossman then tried to get away, pulling free from Officer Boesenberg, and running away.

Officer Jones, his K-9 and Officer Boesenberg chased Gossman, who was clutching at his waistband while he ran. After a short chase, the K-9 grabbed Gossman by the left arm, dragging him to the ground. As he fell, the report states Gossman was pointing a handgun at the K-9 and Officer Garringer, who was only 4 to 5 feet away.

Officer Garringer saw the gun, yelled and reported seeing a flash and hearing a clap, believing Gossman fired at him, and fell to the ground.

The report shows Officer Jones believed Officer Garringer was shot, and saw Gossman holding the hand gun. Officer Jones pulled out his service weapon and fired all 16 rounds at Gossman. Officer Garringer also fired nine rounds at Gossman. Gossman died at the scene.

Investigators found a stolen Fabrique Nationale Herstal Belgique 9 mm Luger loaded semi-automatic pistol with Gossman. They would later determine the gun was damaged in the shooting, but had not been fired by Gossman.

Investigators found one of the shots fired by officers went astray and entered a bedroom window at a home located at 3230 Ravenwood Terrace NW.

Investigators also found a 9 mm round and a 12 gauge shotgun shell on Gossman. A stolen Benelli Nova 12 gauge pump shotgun and a bag with four magazines loaded with 9 mm ammunition was found under the back seat of the truck where Gossman had been sitting.

Also located in the pickup truck include several drug pipes, two bags of syringes, two packages of lithium batteries, two Coleman fuel tanks, rock salt, a bottle of Drain-O, a pill grinder, several boxes of pseudoephedrine, a black bag containing a machete and other ingredients and items commonly used to make meth.

During the investigation, it was determined the firearms and loaded magazines were stolen from a home where Gossman and another person in the truck had been working on a car in a garage. The items were reported stolen after the officer involved shooting.

The report goes on to state Gossman’s family members indicated he would commonly carry a handgun and were concerned he was using meth. Toxicology tests performed by the Iowa State Medical Examiner’s Office determined there was methamphetamine and amphetamines in Gossman’s blood and urine.

The report concludes “it was reasonable for (Officers Jones and Garringer) to believe that such force was necessary ... officers were plainly confronted with a clear, immediate and deadly threat to their lives and safety when Gossman turned and pointed a black pistol at Officer Garringer and the drug detection dog. At that stage of the confrontation, officers were clearly reasonable in their belief that lethal force was necessary to defend themselves and were legally justified in firing their service weapons at Jonathan Gossman.”

The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation was called in to lead the detailed investigation, which is standard protocol for Cedar Rapids police when one of their officers is involved in a fatal shooting.