Advertisement Jeffersontown officers cleared of wrongdoing in deadly shooting New video shows incident Share Copy Link Copy

Months after a robbery suspect was shot and killed, the two officers involved have been cleared of any wrong doing.On Tuesday, WLKY received a statement from Commmonwealth Attorney Tom Wine, reading in part:"I believe the officers acted reasonable in concluding their lives were in danger and further they used the appropriate force in defending themselves."It was Oct. 20, 2015, when Jeffersontown Police officers Dwight Tyler and Torray Walker located the suspect involved in an attempted robbery at the Jimmy John's on South Hurstbourne Parkway.The gunman, now identified as Roger Hall Jr., 30, approached a man demanding cash and his car keys around lunchtime. But, he took off without either.Dispatch was flooded by 911 callers who had witnessed the incident."He's in a black U of L hoodie, he has a backpack and he has a gun. I physically saw him pull a gun on a guy that was in his car," one woman, was recorded telling a dispatcher.That caller and the victim told dispatchers they saw Hall go toward a dumpster behind a Kroger store. It was later determined the suspect had dumped his back pack and changed into a red hooded sweatshirt.Moments later, Tyler and Walker located Hall running toward a grassy embankment behind the nearby Holiday Inn.In video captured by an officer wearing a body camera, an officer is recorded shouting at the suspect, "Show me your hands. Keep your hands up."While it's barely audible, Hall is heard swearing and then yelling, 'I don't want to live no more.' That's when, he pulls a gun, later determined to be a BB gun, from his waistband.Then, three shots are heard. Officers are then seen running to Hall, who had fallen to the ground. One officer tries administering CPR, and is heard saying, "Hang with us."First responders were on scene a short time later and Hall was taken to University Hospital at 1:10 p.m. He was pronounced dead at the hospital at 1:30 p.m.Officers Tyler and Walker were placed on administrative duty, during the course of the investigation. Jeffersontown Police Chief Rick Sanders maintained from the beginning the two officers had acted within their rights."It brings some closure to this case however it doesn't make the fact we had to take an innocent person’s life any easier to swallow," he said Tuesday.Sanders said the suspect was addicted to drugs, and was found with a drug filled syringe in his pocket. He believes Roger Hall, Jr. acted out of desperation on the day of the shooting."These officers did exactly what they're trained to do and what they had to do. That doesn't make it any easier for them to live with it. It's a terrible scenario, we never want to take someone's life," Sanders said.With the commonwealth attorney's investigation complete, criminal charges are not expected to be filed against the officers.Both are veteran officers, who spent time respectively with the LMPD and Lexington Police Departments. Officers Dwight Tyler and Torray Walker had no prior disciplinary records.