A burglary suspect was identified a day after he was shot and killed by deputies in St. Tammany Parish.Darien Greenwood, 30, was killed Tuesday afternoon when he attacked a K-9 officer and a deputy, according to the St. Tammany Parish Sheriff's Office.Officials said the incident began around 2 p.m. Tuesday near Mandeville. They said a woman called 911 after she came home and found two men leaving with her belongingsSheriff Jack Strain said deputies found Greenwood and another man in a vehicle and went into pursuit. He said the two men jumped out of the vehicle, and the other man was arrested moments later.Deputies said K-9 officer Thor found Greenwood hiding in a neighborhood. Greenwood tried to stab a deputy when Thor intervened, Strain said.According to the sheriff, two deputies shot Greenwood, who was taken to a hospital where he died. Officials have not identified the second man involved in the burglary incident.Thor was stabbed once in the neck by Greenwood, authorities said. He was given a blood transfusion, but additional information about his condition has not been released.The STPSO is expected to release additional information about the incident.

A burglary suspect was identified a day after he was shot and killed by deputies in St. Tammany Parish.

Darien Greenwood, 30, was killed Tuesday afternoon when he attacked a K-9 officer and a deputy, according to the St. Tammany Parish Sheriff's Office.

Officials said the incident began around 2 p.m. Tuesday near Mandeville. They said a woman called 911 after she came home and found two men leaving with her belongings

Sheriff Jack Strain said deputies found Greenwood and another man in a vehicle and went into pursuit. He said the two men jumped out of the vehicle, and the other man was arrested moments later.

Deputies said K-9 officer Thor found Greenwood hiding in a neighborhood. Greenwood tried to stab a deputy when Thor intervened, Strain said.

According to the sheriff, two deputies shot Greenwood, who was taken to a hospital where he died. Officials have not identified the second man involved in the burglary incident.

Thor was stabbed once in the neck by Greenwood, authorities said. He was given a blood transfusion, but additional information about his condition has not been released.

The STPSO is expected to release additional information about the incident.