SIOUX CITY | When a driver refuses to pull over during traffic stop, and speeds away instead, the law enforcement officer faces a dilemma.

Questions race through the officer’s mind. Should they pursue the suspect, potentially reaching dangerous speeds in the process? What if the chase runs into heavy traffic or a residential area? And does the offense justify the pursuit?

While Siouxland police departments, sheriff’s offices and state troopers have their own policies, many of them share similar guidelines when it comes to pursuits.

Factors come into play such as the time of the day, weather conditions, the amount of traffic -- cars and pedestrians -- on the road, and who the person in the fleeing vehicle is, said Major Todd Wieck of the Woodbury County Sheriff's Office. The Sioux City Police Department and the Iowa State Patrol share many of the same considerations in determining when to pursue a fleeing suspect.

Often, it's a case-by-case decision, Wieck said.

Sometimes, officers stop the chase and put out a warrant on the driver.

“If it becomes too dangerous, we’ll end the pursuit if the danger outweighs the end result of catching the person,” he said.

Other circumstances might justify the risk, however, said Lt. Pat McCann of the Sioux City Police Department.

“If somebody has just robbed a bank and killed somebody, the risk of letting them go might be greater than the chase,” McCann said.

In some cases, the experience of the officer comes into play, said Sergeant Bluff Police Chief Scott Pack. The older an officer, the more hesitant they tend to be in deciding to initiate a pursuit.

“After a while, we (officers) tend to lean on the side of caution in all situations, unless that person ahead of us is creating an immediate harm to public safety," Pack said.

On Oct. 23, Sergeant Bluff police gave chase after a driver -- believed to have been intoxicated -- who refused to pull over for a traffic stop. However, the officers soon pulled back due to rainy conditions.

The driver, later identified as Ephrom Troy Barfield, continued to drive at high speeds, lost control and crashed on old Highway 75 near Salix, Pack said.

Barfield was ejected during the crash and died of his injuries. Officers were an estimated three-fourths of a mile behind him at the time he crashed.

Pack said it was an unfortunate situation that they could do little about since Barfield didn't slow down.

"We had no control over his driving," Pack said. “The weather conditions that day were not conducive of any type of high-speed anything."

The Sioux City Police Department’s official policy on pursuits states that chases must be done “in a manner that provides a reasonable amount of safety for the general public and the police officers involved.” In addition, the policy states that, when possible, officers will “seek alternative methods of apprehending suspects when it is likely a vehicle pursuit will occur.”

The policy for Iowa State troopers states that a pursuit is justified when an officer “believes the risk to the public is greater without an apprehension when compared to the risk of the pursuit.”

If troopers can’t identify the driver, they generally will continue the pursuit because that person is apparently trying to elude contact with law enforcement, said Trooper John Farley.

“It might not be the violation that they are being stopped for, but there are contingent factors that the trooper might not know at the time that is causing that person to flee,” said Farley.

Iowa State troopers had to use the pit maneuver -- when a patrol car taps the corner of the suspect's vehicle -- to forcefully end a pursuit that went into downtown Sioux City on Jan. 3.

“That pursuit was getting into a populated area and it needed to be stopped right (away),” Farley said. “The use of the pit maneuver was textbook. It was done exactly the way it should have been.”

The driver, Jesse Brubaker, 32, of Sioux City, crashed into the Chesterfield, a bar and live music venue in the Historic Fourth District. He attempted to flee on foot but was tased and arrested.

He was charged with wreckless driving, eluding, driving with a suspended license and several traffic violations.

The number of pursuits has stayed about the same in recent years.

In 2015, there were 39 pursuits in Sioux City, compared to 40 in 2014 and 31 pursuits in 2013, according to Sioux City police data.

Not all of those pursuits were initiated by Sioux City police officers, McCann said. Some had begun in a different city or even state and Sioux City police officers assisted another agency.

On Nov. 6, a Woodbury County Sheriff's deputy attempted to pull over the driver of a pickup in the 2400 block of Seventh Street in Sioux City for a revoked license. The suspect fled and led authorities on a chase north into Plymouth County.

The pickup crashed when the driver lost control and drove into a ditch at the intersection of county road K-22 and Iowa Highway 3, injuring one of the occupants. The 16-year-old driver was taken into custody and charged with multiple traffic and drug violations.

The Woodbury County Sheriff’s Office and the Iowa State Patrol said they did not have specific numbers for how many pursuits their respective agencies took part in last year, but both agencies regularly assist other officers in pursuits.