Shreveport Times

A Shreveport police officer responded with gunfire when allegedly threatened with a blade in the city's downtown Thursday.

The man, died after being shot multiple times, according to police.

Responding to reports of an armed person around 8 a.m., an unidentified and uniformed downtown patrol officer was dispatched to a concerned citizen call of an armed person on Clyde Fant Memorial Parkway. On the scene in front of the El Dorado Casino the officer encountered Lawrence Green, 38, who was reported to be walking down the street waving a three-inch blade around in the air and at others, said SPD spokesman Cpl. Breck Scott.

"The suspect was holding a knife. The officer told him repeatedly to drop the weapon. At that time the suspect came toward the officer and the officer shot multiple times, hitting the suspect multiple times in the upper body," Scott said.

Lloyd Grafton, expert witness in police force use who retired from Louisiana State Police, said officers are trained to shoot in bursts of three to four rounds.

Grafton said police training academies nationwide teach an officer to shoot to stop a threat. With the call for dispatch going out as an armed person, the officer should've had his weapon drawn when approaching the knife-wielding man, Grafton said.

Shreveport resident Jeff Lowe, said he was taking his son to school when he turned right on Clyde Fant Memorial Parkway from Caddo Street and witnessed the shooting's aftermath.

"I went to turn right and there was somebody laying in the road," Lowe said. "He looked dead."

Lowe said he saw, from a distance, about four police units on the scene around what appeared to be a black man lying dead in the street.

"I thought he was dead because no one was attending to him," Lowe said.

At the time, traffic was still flowing past the scene, but Lowe, not wanting to startle his son, found another route. He said this happened around 8:05 a.m., and as he left the area, he saw more police and other emergency vehicles coming to the scene.

"There were cop cars flying to the scene as soon as I got there. Sirens blasting, coming from everywhere," Lowe said.

Green was taken to University Health with life-threatening wounds, said Scott. He died shortly after his arrival.

Security footage from surrounding casinos was taken as evidence. Scott said public release of the footage is at the discretion of the district attorney and SPD once the investigation is complete.

While use of deadly force by officers is permissible in threatening situations, local, state and national policies dictate exactly what situations merit the firing of a weapon.

Scott said the officer was equipped with a Taser, but Grafton said it would've been foolish to try and use it.

"You can always second-guess the officer and ask if he could use a less lethal weapon in these situations," Grafton said. "Well, he could have, but he would’ve been taking a risk if he had just used his Taser and left his gun holstered."

He said non-lethal force is used when multiple officers are on the scene, but, if alone, an officer is instructed to shoot. Police said the second officer arrived on scene just as the shots were being fired.

Both officers have been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation.