A pedestrian was struck and killed by an unmarked Casselberry police vehicle just before 12:30 a.m. Friday.According to the Florida Highway Patrol, the 22-year-old Altamonte Springs man was running across State Road 436 -- not in a crosswalk or within an intersection.The unmarked police vehicle was heading east on S.R. 436 in the outside lane, when it struck the pedestrian, identified as Jeremy Galvez.Galvez was thrown onto the south grass shoulder of the roadway.The driver of the vehicle was identified as Zachary Price, 23, of Casselberry. He was not hurt.Price has been temporarily reassigned, according to police. Police do not believe Price was speeding and do not believe he was at fault.Florida Highway Patrol is investigating the case.The Casselberry Police Department released the following statement:"While on duty early today, Casselberry Police Officer Zachary Price was in an accident with a fatality involving a pedestrian who witnesses say suddenly bolted out in front of the officer’s car. The accident is under investigation by the Florida Highway Patrol. The officer will be temporarily reassigned."14277264

A pedestrian was struck and killed by an unmarked Casselberry police vehicle just before 12:30 a.m. Friday.

According to the Florida Highway Patrol, the 22-year-old Altamonte Springs man was running across State Road 436 -- not in a crosswalk or within an intersection.

Advertisement

The unmarked police vehicle was heading east on S.R. 436 in the outside lane, when it struck the pedestrian, identified as Jeremy Galvez.

Galvez was thrown onto the south grass shoulder of the roadway.

The driver of the vehicle was identified as Zachary Price, 23, of Casselberry. He was not hurt.

Price has been temporarily reassigned, according to police. Police do not believe Price was speeding and do not believe he was at fault.

Florida Highway Patrol is investigating the case.



The Casselberry Police Department released the following statement:



"While on duty early today, Casselberry Police Officer Zachary Price was in an accident with a fatality involving a pedestrian who witnesses say suddenly bolted out in front of the officer’s car. The accident is under investigation by the Florida Highway Patrol. The officer will be temporarily reassigned."