MELISSA MONTOYA

MMONTOYA@NEWS-PRESS.COM

A review by the state attorney's office and Cape Coral police have found an officer was justified when he killed a man and injured his baby during a domestic disturbance turned SWAT situation last year.

The October incident occurred at the home Marsha Alexander once shared with her estranged boyfriend, 34-year-old Rolly Thomas. The home, which lists Thomas as owner, is located in the 1500 block of NE 34 Lane in Cape Coral. Thomas shot Alexander and shot at police. He missed.

Cape Coral police officer Matthew Mills, a 9-year veteran, shot and killed Thomas and mistakenly hit his infant son, Ray Thomas, who police say was being held as a hostage.

The state attorney's office declined to bring any charges toward Mills, who used "a legally justifiable use of deadly force," according to a letter from State Attorney Stephen Russell addressed to previous Cape Coral police Chief Bart Connelly dated March 30.

"“It is unfortunate that Ray Thomas was also shot in the leg during this incident. Thankfully, the child survived his gunshot wound," the state attorney's office concluded.

Police chief: Infant hurt during shooting

Cape Coral police officers often visited the home, records show. In 2015, 16 calls for service were made for the address. The night before the shootout Thomas went to the house, violating a court order to stay away from Alexander.

During a call in June 2015, Thomas was arrested for domestic violence battery. He violated the court order about a month before he tried to kill Alexander as well.

Thomas went to the home, despite a no contact order and court injunction against him, to drop off one of his children on Oct. 23. Police were called, but by the time they arrived, Thomas had left.

Then, in the early morning hours of Oct. 24, neighbors awoke to the sounds of gunshots and police trying to reason with Thomas, who arrived at the home again and forced his way in with a pistol and axe, according to an incident report.

Alexander had been shot by Thomas in the chest, but police officers were able to get her and three of her children out of the home. Thomas barricaded himself in with Ray and shot at police officers numerous times using a shotgun and a pistol.

Thomas emerged through the front door and pointed his shotgun at police officers when Mills took fatal aim and killed him. But unbeknownst to Mills, Thomas was holding his son at the time. The boy was hit in the thigh, but survived. Police found a second child asleep in the home.

Cape Coral police: Missing man case is now a homicide

The case was investigated by Cape Coral police investigators and turned over to the state attorney's office for review.

An internal affairs investigation into the shooting showed the incident was in accordance with training and the firing of the weapon was within departmental policy.

Cape Coral interim police Chief Dave Newlan called Thomas' actions "nothing short of horrific."

"The taking of a life is something we all hope will never happen in our career in law enforcement," Newlan said. "Sometimes the actions of a suspect leave us no choice."

Mills took the only shot he had and stopped the threat, Newlan said.

Newlan said the Cape Coral Police Department will continue to help Alexander and her children through the Victim Assistance Unit.

"The community was shaken by this tragic incident. A family was destroyed," Newlan said. "Marsha and Ray will carry the physical scars for the rest of their lives. An officer was forced to take a life. The physical and mental healing is underway, but it will take time."