Brett Kelman

The Desert Sun

A Cathedral City man who was killed by police about one year ago threatened officers with binoculars that were snapped in half so they would resemble a gun, leading to a quintessential case of suicide-by-cop, law enforcement officials announced Wednesday in a rare, in-depth interview.

Dominic Hutchinson, 30, was shot after police came to his doorstep to investigate a report of domestic violence on Oct. 24, 2015. Hutchinson shouted three times that he had a gun, then opened the door and rushed two officers while pointing the broken binoculars. He was shot 11 times, and he died on the spot.

Any police officer would have fired under the same circumstances, Cathedral City Police Chief George Crum said Wednesday during a frank interview about the shooting. Hutchinson “forced the officers to act,” Crum said.

"You are going to fire on that suspect," Crum said. “If I’m thinking you have a gun, I’m not going to sit and debate it with you while you pull it from your waistband and point it in a threatening manner."

Crum’s statements offered an uncommon level of transparency for Coachella Valley police. Local police departments almost never speak extensively about shootings, rarely explain what caused officers to open fire and often withhold even basic facts indefinitely. But Crum said that kind of silence could foster confusion and distrust in Cathedral City, allowing the story of a cut-and-dry case to spin out of control.

“There are lots of things going on in the national media with police shooting unarmed black men,” Crum said. “I want this story to be what it truly is – an individual who, in some regards, had a death wish.”

Hutchinson is the first and only person to be shot by Cathedral City police since 2010. The two officers who shot him – Alan Lemus and Jeffrey Blachley – have been cleared of all criminal culpability by the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office. Crum said he was now free to talk about the shooting because the criminal investigation was over.

Crum, who became chief of the Cathedral City police in 2014, said his decision to speak was influenced by his past work in Fullerton, where the police department was publicly chastised after officers were caught on grainy video beating a mentally ill homeless man, Kelly Thomas, in 2011. Thomas died several days later, and two officers were later acquitted of murder and manslaughter charges. The case became a national rallying point for demands of increased police training and law enforcement transparency.

“This is really my best attempt I can make to be transparent about what happened that night (in Cathedral City,)" Crum said on Wednesday. “And I do think we need more transparency and accountability in law enforcement, but I’m only one police chief in one police department.”

RELATED STORY: How the wrong guy got shot on a moon-lit night in Thermal

MORE COVERAGE: 'Cocaine binge' sparked shooting near voting site

The Hutchinson shooting occurred at about 11 p.m. at Creekside Apartments on 33 Avenue. Police were summoned to the apartment complex after Hutchinson’s ex-wife called 911 to report that he had struck her in the face with a cellphone.

During the interview on Wednesday, Crum allowed journalists to listen to audio recordings captured by both officers at the scene. In the recordings, Hutchinson can be heard shouting “I have a gun!” three times, then the officers shout “Let me see your hands!” several times, followed by the rustle of commotion and then a flurry of gunshots.

Reporters also listened to a recording of a 911 call reportedly made by Hutchinson’s father about the same time that the shooting was occurring. In that call, the father says his son was planning to be killed by police.

“He told me he is going to go outside with knives so he can be shot dead because he’s tired of his wire and tired of his problems,” the man says the recorded 911 calls.

Crum said the officers in the shooting were not made aware of the father’s 911 call until after the shooting had occurred.

The Riverside County Sheriff’s Department, which conducted the criminal investigation into the shooting, said it could not release any information about the incident because it had finished its investigation and sent the case to the DA’s Office.

The DA’s office confirmed it had cleared both officers of any criminal culpability, but did not explain the decision or answer any questions about the shooting. DA’s spokesman John Hall said a public letter on the decision will be released in the near future, but no timeline was provided. The letter is a requirement of a new DA’s Office police shooting transparency policy that took effect shortly before Hutchinson was killed.

Reporter Brett Kelman can be reached by phone at (760) 778-4642, by email at brett.kelman@desertsun.com, or on Twitter @TDSbrettkelman.