Amanda J. Purcell

Poughkeepsie Journal

A man involved in a shootout with New Paltz police in October has died, according to the Ulster County District Attorney’s office.

John Tozzi, who was in the hospital since the shooting four months ago, died Tuesday.

A violent shootout erupted on Oct. 24 when one New Paltz Police Department officer approached the door to an apartment and his partner saw, through a window, Tozzi walking toward the door with a gun.

What initially began as a domestic violence complaint at Tozzi’s home on Route 32 South in the Town of New Paltz turned into an hours-long standoff with police.

Police said Tozzi, fired one round from a high powered rifle, which went through the metal door where the officer had been standing a moment before. The shooter than barricaded himself in his apartment and fired at least eight more rounds at officers, striking three police vehicles, which were being used as shields by the officers.

Tozzi was eventually struck in the chest by a police officer when he approached a back window. He was taken to a hospital in Westchester County.

Ulster County District Attorney Holley Carnright said the agency was preparing to present an indictment against Tozzi for multiple counts of first-degree attempted murder. However, no charges were ever filed against Tozzi because of his medical condition.

“The reason for not filing the charges before the Grand Jury presentation was simply a practical one,” Carnright said in a news release Wednesday. “Once charges are filed against a defendant, that individual becomes the responsibility of the arresting agency. Here it would have become necessary to post around the clock security at the hospital. In addition, I am advised that potentially, expenses regarding medical procedures following arrest could become the responsibility of the county.”

VIDEO: New Paltz standoff leaves 1 wounded, and a community rattled

Carnright said his office had been monitoring Tozzi’s condition until he died.

The district attorney’s office plans to have a grand jury review the officer-involved shooting, as is his office’s policy. A date for the court appearance has not been scheduled.

“The fact that that case will be presented to the grand jury in no way reflects an opinion one way or the other regarding any wrongdoing,” Carnright said in the news release.

The New York State Attorney General’s Office was advised of the circumstances at the time of the incident, he said.

Amanda J. Purcell: apurcell@poughkeepsiejournal.com; 845-437-4807; Twitter: @amandajpurcell