A Coal Valley man’s behavior had been “escalating for a while” before he shot up the Davenport workplace of his estranged wife and then killed himself in Bettendorf, the woman’s divorce attorney said Tuesday.

Court documents filed in Scott County District Court allege that Robert L. Mayes II, 40, had been sending harassing emails and phone calls to his estranged wife, who is an attorney, and her family and friends since the summer. The couple had been married since 2008 and were in the process of divorcing, according to records.

Mayes also posted derogatory messages on social media and contacted her clients, according to an affidavit she filed in September alleging that Mayes had violated the order of protection she was granted in June.

“I am scared for the safety of my family, my friends, and myself,” the woman wrote in the affidavit.

The woman’s attorney, Maria Pauly, said she, too, had received harassing messages from Mayes. On Tuesday, Pauly shared with the Quad-City Times a text message dated Oct. 19 that she said was sent by Mayes. It included a picture of a gun with the caption, “Enjoy the last thing u will ever see!!!”

Police say that “ongoing domestic issues” with his estranged wife led Mayes to storm into law offices at 710 E. Kimberly Road, where both the estranged wife and Pauly work, and open fire on Monday afternoon.

No one was shot in the incident, but two people sustained superficial injuries, according to police.

Bettendorf Police Capt. Keith Kimball said after the Davenport shooting, Mayes drove to a business in the 4500 block of Utica Ridge Road to search for a male acquaintance of his estranged wife.

The man, who Kimball said had been forewarned, escaped the building before Mayes walked in.

Kimball said Mayes, in his search for the man, fired three shots into a locked door before leaving the business.

Police say Mayes fatally shot himself in the head as police closed in on him outside of the business.

Kimball said police are investigating where Mayes got the gun.

Pauly, who was not in the office at the time of the Davenport shooting, said she learned that Mayes initially had entered into the building through her office, which is located next to a military recruitment center on the lower level, and intended to shoot her as well.

Mayes fired multiple shots throughout Pauly's office and in the upper level of the building as he looked for his estranged wife. The woman was able to escape out of the back of the building, she said.

“He looked for any place that she could be hiding,” Pauly said.

Davenport police received the call just before 2 p.m. About 10 minutes later, Bettendorf police received a call of shots fired at the Utica Ridge business. When officers arrived to the scene, they saw a suspect matching the description of the Davenport shooter standing in the parking lot of Miller-Meier Limb and Brace with a gun in his hand, according to police.

Although no one was seriously injured in Monday’s incident, business owners and employees at the East Kimberly building tried Tuesday to pick up the pieces.

The glass door to one of the law office’s was shot out and a bullet hole was visible on a wall the office.

Bullet holes are visible on the door knob of a maintenance closet next to the law office.

Downstairs, several industrial-sized fans were drying out carpet that was soaked when a bullet hit a water pipe.

Pauly said Mayes’ estranged wife was “doing all right” after the incident.

“I think now it’s just a matter of just moving forward,” she said.

As police continue to investigate the case, court documents and multiple messages posted to at least two different social media sites over the last few months reveal Mayes’ growing hostility toward his estranged wife.

The woman filed an order of protection against Robert Mayes in June. The order is in effect until June 2016.

The order stated that Robert Mayes did not have any guns in his home.

An Illinois law that went into effect in January 2010 prohibits applicants from obtaining a Firearm Owner's Identification Card or possessing a firearm if they have an order of protection against them.

On Sept. 10, the woman filed an affidavit alleging that Mayes had continued to harass her.

Mayes on Sept. 18 emailed her and asked her various questions about an acquaintance of hers and “the property that the individuals occupies,” according to an affidavit filed by a Scott County sheriff’s deputy that alleged that Mayes violated the order of protection.

Mayes also told her that “if he goes to jail over the various emails that it would be ‘good’ for nobody involved,” according to the affidavit.

A bench warrant was issued for Mayes on Sept. 21. He was released from the Scott County Jail after posting $1,000 through a bail bond company.

A contempt hearing on the violation was scheduled for Nov. 4.

On Sept. 23, Mayes was charged with second-degree harassment, a serious misdemeanor. He was released from the jail two days later after posting a $1,000 bond through a bail bonds company.

According to a police affidavit filed in that case, Mayes on Sept. 18 drove to a man’s house in Scott County and tried to talk to him about “an ongoing issue with his (estranged) wife.”

Mayes threatened to kill the man and “all others that got in his way,” the affidavit states. After getting back into his vehicle, he told the man that he was going to come back and burn down his residence, according to the document.

The man was granted an order of protection against Mayes on Oct. 23.

An order of protection against Mayes also was granted in 2003 to another woman. Court records related to that case were unavailable Tuesday.

A Google Plus page created under the name “Robert Mayes” included posts dating back to at least September that include derogatory comments about his estranged wife and the man who has an order of protection against him.

In a lengthy post timestamped at 5:09 a.m. the morning of the shooting, Mayes wrote that "I love my family and friends very much!!! And anybody that didn't like me knows I didn't care one bit!!!

"See everyone in hell."