The death of a fugitive who police say fired on them during a chase along U.S. 26 last week has been ruled a suicide, the state medical examiner's office said Monday.

Andrew G. DeHart, 36, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head, said Dr. Larry Lewman, who conducted the autopsy. Initial reports indicated he died by police gunfire.

DeHart wasn't struck by the officers' bullets, Lewman said. He suffered some cuts from glass breaking in his pickup truck during their gunfire.

Lewman said initial testing indicated that DeHart had methamphetamine in his system, but further testing still needs to be completed.

DeHart was wanted in connection with a brutal beating in the Vancouver area, and authorities were planning to arrest him late Wednesday night before the chase occurred.

Members of the U.S. Marshals Service had found DeHart at an acquaintance's home in Seaside, said Sgt. Bob Ray, a Washington County Sheriff's Office spokesman. DeHart left in his 2000 Ford Ranger as marshals were waiting outside and before more police arrived.

The marshals followed DeHart as he headed east on U.S. 26, Ray said, and while Oregon State Police responded to help. Near milepost 22, DeHart apparently spotted the troopers, who had been on their way to Seaside and had pulled off the road to conceal themselves and wait when they heard DeHart was coming their way.

After passing the officers, DeHart picked up the pace, Ray said. And about three miles later, he started shooting at police from his truck, at one point, disabling a patrol car. DeHart continued firing at the police chasing him over the course of 17 miles along U.S. 26, Ray said. Police were not returning fire.

Three officers set up outside their police cars on the east side of the Dennis L. Edwards Tunnel about a mile west of the Oregon 47 intersection. They fired on DeHart as he exited the tunnel, Ray said.

Ray said the chase ended at 10:20 p.m. DeHart was taken to Providence St. Vincent Medical Center, and he died late Wednesday night.

Authorities have not identified the officers involved in the shooting. No Washington County officers were involved. Authorities have not said how many times DeHart fired on police or how many times they fired at him.

The Washington County Major Crimes Team is investigating the shooting.

-- Rebecca Woolington

503-294-4049; @rwoolington