Racing from police in a Ford Mustang stolen at gunpoint, then-15-year-old Wesley Brown topped 100 mph, weaving down a dark road before the crash that killed a Boca Raton woman, investigators say.

As Brown’s vehicular homicide trial approaches, new details are emerging about the Nov. 1 collision that killed Wendy Harris-Aceves, a 46-year-old mother driving to pick up her daughter at a school dance when police say her SUV was rammed by the Mustang.

More than 100 pages of newly released investigative documents reveal how police say the teen tried to get away as well as officers’ attempts to close in on the Mustang, fleeing across a mile-long stretch of the city.

Boca Raton police had two police cars with lights flashing following the fleeing teen — with another officer coming from the other direction to try to stop his escape — before the violent crash, records show.

Brown crashed about a minute after speeding away from officers, before policies dictating whether officers should pursue or pull back became a factor, police said. As a result, the department doesn’t classify the mile-long incident as a police pursuit.

“They never had a chance to pursue,” said Officer Sandra Boonenberg, the Boca Raton police spokeswoman.

A Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office crash investigator in a Nov. 12 report found Brown “solely to blame” for Harris-Aceves’ death.

Yet police actions that night still could be a factor in the trial, starting Oct. 4, to determine whether Brown, of Deerfield Beach, committed vehicular homicide.

Distance and speed are factors in differentiating between what’s considered an attempted traffic stop and a police pursuit, according to police policy experts. They say officers are expected to balance the public safety risk of a car chase against the potential danger of allowing a suspect to get away.

A pursuit starts as soon as an officer tries to stop someone and that person attempts to get away, according to Chuck Drago, a former Oviedo police chief and Fort Lauderdale assistant police chief who now works as a consultant and expert witness.

“These things happen quickly,” said Drago, who has not studied the specifics of the Brown case. “A minute is a lot longer than it seems when you are in pursuit.”

Because Brown was driving a car that police say was stolen at gunpoint earlier that night, officers would have had more leeway to chase after him, according to University of South Carolina Professor Geoffrey Alpert, who studies police pursuits.

If officers decide to give chase, during the pursuit they must evaluate whether it’s safe to continue, he said.

“The line in the sand is whether or not the person is wanted for a violent crime,” Alpert said. “At some point it becomes more risky than it’s worth. … Once they start the chase, do they need to continue?”

A reported carjacking

Police say the deadly night started about five hours before the collision, when two men at gunpoint stole a gray, 2016 convertible Mustang from a valet at the Addison Event Center at 2 E. Camino Real in Boca Raton.

Then at 11:20 p.m., K-9 Officer Shawn Lyman, said he spotted what could be the stolen Mustang at a Valero gas station on Northwest Second Avenue, north of Glades Road, according to the investigator’s reports.

Lyman said he drove past the gas station to avoid alerting the two men in the parking lot with the vehicle. The officer made a U-turn as the Mustang, with its headlights off, pulled out of the gas station and headed south on Northwest Second Avenue, the report said.

Lyman caught up to the Mustang, radioed in its license plate number to dispatchers and was told that it matched the vehicle stolen that night from the valet, the report said.

Lyman told investigators that he kept following the Mustang south on Northwest Second Avenue while waiting for backup units to arrive. The Mustang first pulled into a left turn lane for another gas station.

“At this time I was not sure if the vehicle was going to turn in or if the occupants were getting ready to bail out,” Lyman said in the report. “I was trying to get prepared with my K-9 … in case we had to deploy.”

Pulling away from police

Instead of turning, the Mustang continued south and pulled into the left turn lane, waiting for the traffic light at the intersection of Northwest Second Avenue and Glades Road, the report said.

At 11:21 p.m., again instead of turning, the Mustang went though the intersection as Lyman followed. The two cars then drove past another police car, driven by Officer Robert Cohen, that was heading north on Northwest Second Avenue and preparing to make a U-turn to follow them, the report said.

That’s when the Mustang “recklessly began speeding southbound at an extremely fast rate of speed,” according to the crash investigator’s report.

Officers Lyman and Cohen turned on their police lights and continued following to try to stop the Mustang. Brown weaved in and out of the two southbound lanes, sometimes using both lanes on the darkened road that was wet from sprinklers and lined with homes and businesses, the case reports said.

The sheriff’s crash investigator later found that the Mustang was driving up to 117 mph in the 30 mph speed zone.

“He continued pulling away from both police vehicles that were attempting to stop him,” the crash investigator’s report said.

Another officer in the area, Officer Brandon Harding, told investigators that he responded to Lyman’s call for backup with lights and sirens activated, driving toward the intersection of Northwest Second Avenue and Palmetto Park Road. Harding was planning to put tire-piercing spikes, used to stop fleeing cars, in the path of the Mustang, according to the report.

But the Mustang got to the intersection first, going more than 95 mph and failing to stop for a red light, the crash investigator determined.

That’s when Wendy Harris-Aceves happened to be driving a silver 2012 Honda Pilot east on Palmetto Park Road.

She had a green light when she drove through the intersection at 11:22 p.m. and was hit with such force by the Mustang that both cars spun counterclockwise across the road and she was sent flying from the vehicle, the report said.

Harris-Aceves died there on the road.

Police say Brown’s passenger, Jacquan Strowbridge, 21, of Deerfield Beach, ran from the wrecked Mustang, climbing over the wall of a nearby business before being tackled by Officer Harding. “I was only the passenger,” Strowbridge told Harding, according to the report.

Police found Brown still in the driver’s seat of the wrecked Mustang, with a broken right leg and a broken right wrist, the report said. He was taken to the hospital and later arrested on charges of vehicular homicide, fleeing and eluding police and reckless driving.

The three officers involved were temporarily placed on paid administrative leave, because of “the traumatic nature of the crash,” Boonenberg said. Harding was close enough to the fleeing Mustang to see the collision, according to the report.

Car theft history

Prior to his arrest in Boca Raton, Wesley Brown in 2014 was put on probation for a case involving marijuana possession, battery and trespassing.

He had been found in three stolen cars during 2015 and he was facing eight charges as a juvenile in Broward for misdemeanors such as resisting arrest, robbery and grand theft auto, according to police and court records.

Brown, now 16, faces being prosecuted as an adult for the death of Wendy Harris-Aceves.

The head of Palm Beach County‘s Public Defender Office, Carey Houghwaut, is handling Brown’s defense. She declined to comment on the upcoming case or whether the police response that night will be part of the defense.

Brown is being held in the Broward County jail, Houghwaut said. Brown’s father, Elijah Garland, declined comment.

Pursuit policy

In response to requests for comment about how Boca Raton officers decide whether to pursue a fleeing suspect and what’s allowed during a pursuit, Boonenberg deferred to the department’s 11-page pursuit policy. The Boca Raton police chase policy says officers only are allowed to pursue people suspected of committing or attempting to commit a violent felony.

Wet roads, darkness, and proximity to residential areas are among the “limiting factors” officers are supposed to factor in when deciding whether to pursue a fleeing suspect, according to the Boca Raton police policy.

An officer should end the pursuit if risks to the officer or others “outweigh the danger to the community if the suspect is not apprehended,” the policy says.

Alpert, of the University of South Carolina, said officers are typically “authorized to take much higher risks” when chasing someone suspected of a violent crime. In the Brown case, the fleeing car “initiated this chase,” he said.

“That’s a really short time to expect (the officer) to slow down,” Alpert said.

At her funeral, Harris-Aceves was remembered as a loving mother of two who as a Girl Scout leader and devout Catholic was an active volunteer at church and her children’s schools.

While Brown prepares for trial, Harris-Aceves’ family is still “just trying to get through day to day,” her husband John Aceves said.

John Aceves said he doesn’t blame police for the crash that killed his wife. He said the fault rests with the driver of the stolen Mustang that officers were trying to stop.

“If someone stole my car, I would want them to go after them,” Aceves said. “It really wasn’t their fault. … They were doing their job.”

abreid@sunsentinel.com, 561-228-5504 or Twitter@abreidnews