UPDATE Monday 10 a.m.:

Eureka Police Capt. Steve Watson said Monday morning that he does not believe any of the four occupants of the suspect vehicle in yesterday’s officer-involved shooting have been arrested, and stated the name of the suspected shooter will likely not be released until Wednesday.

“We still have a lot of work to do,” Watson said.

According to the Eureka Police Department, the alleged shooter got out of the suspect car and fired at a California Highway Patrol Officer in Eureka on Sunday afternoon immediately after being pulled over during a traffic stop. The officer was shot in the leg before he returned fire, killing the suspected shooter.

“The officer sustained a non-life threatening gunshot wound and is expected to survive,” an EPD release states.

California Highway Patrol Officer Matt Harvey said Monday morning that the agency is currently not releasing any information about the wounded officer, but expressed appreciation for the local community’s support.

“The outpouring of support and care has been overwhelming,” Harvey said. “We’re extremely appreciative of that. We believe the officer is on his way to a full recovery.”

PREVIOUS COVERAGE:

A man suspected of shooting a California Highway Patrol officer during a traffic stop in Eureka on Sunday afternoon has died from the injuries he sustained when the officer returned fire, according to Eureka Police Chief Andrew Mills.

“The officer made a traffic stop on the vehicle,” Mills said during a press conference at the scene of the shooting Sunday evening. “And when he made the traffic stop on the vehicle, a short time afterward, a person came out of the car firing a handgun at him and he was struck and he went down and he returned fire, wounding the suspect. That suspect has succumbed to his injuries at the hospital and that’s all we have at this time.”

Mills said he would not take questions on the incident until more information is gathered.

According to a release from the EPD sent out later Sunday night, the officer was shot in the leg and the wound was considered non-life threatening.

Gunshots exchanged

Mills said the Eureka Police Department received a call at 4:19 p.m. that an officer had been shot at the corner of 4th and Q streets in Eureka.

Mills said officers from several law enforcement agencies responded to the incident to aid the wounded CHP officer.

“Upon their arrival, they found one CHP officer who had been shot and was down on the ground holding a car at gunpoint,” Mills said, adding that the suspected shooter was already down by the time they arrived.

At the scene, onlookers gathered around the lawn and local businesses — with several recording the incident with their cell phones — as officers stood with their guns drawn and pointed at the suspect vehicle. Several of the officers were yelling commands toward the people seated in the car.

One by one, the vehicle occupants came out with their arms raised and their backs facing the officers until they were handcuffed and led away to patrol cars. According to the EPD release, four people were detained. The injured CHP officer was conscious and alert as he was placed in an ambulance, his right leg wrapped in linens.

Meanwhile, Arcata Ambulance paramedics rendered CPR on the alleged shooter who was lying in the middle of Q Street. The suspect’s shirt and pants had been removed as medical aid was rendered. Paramedics placed the man on a stretcher and into an ambulance. He died at the hospital.

Several bullet casings were being marked for evidence around the two vehicles at the scene of the shooting, with officers also scanning nearby residences, businesses and signs for any bullets or bullet holes. Several blocks around the scene were closed down and Caltrans reports via Facebook that “southbound 4th street in Eureka will be closed until further notice as police investigate the shooting of a CHP officer. Please avoid the area.”

A multi-agency Humboldt County Critical Incident Response Team is investigating the shooting, according to the release.

“Since the incident occurred within the City of Eureka, EPD is heading up the investigation with a co-lead from the Humboldt County District Attorney’s Office. Other agencies assisting with the CIRT investigation include the Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office, Humboldt County Drug Task Force, and Fortuna Police Department. Criminologists with the California Department of Justice (DOJ) are processing the scene for evidence,” the release state.

The investigation had 4th Street shut down to all westbound traffic at R Street, with processing taking place into the night. Q Street was also closed to traffic between 3rd Street and Myrtle Avenue. ‘That’s when all hell broke loose’

Several witnesses claimed to have seen the incident unfold, with their version of events aligning with Mills’ statement.

After talking with an EPD officer and still holding his cardboard sign, Randy — who declined to provide his full name — said he was on the corner of 4th and Q streets while panhandling or “signing” when he saw the CHP patrol car make the traffic stop.

When the patrol car and suspect vehicle turned right on Q Street and stopped, Randy said he saw a younger man get out of the driver’s side of the vehicle with a handgun.

“The dude came out and started firing at the cop immediately,” Randy said.

Randy said he saw the officer was hit in the leg by a bullet before subsequently dropping to one knee and returning fire.

Another eyewitness who also only gave his first name, Larry, said he had been walking down Q Street when he saw the traffic stop and saw the suspected shooter immediately step out of the car and begin firing at the officer.

“That’s when all hell broke loose,” he said. “The dude fired three shots.”

Both Larry and Randy said the CHP officer fired multiple times until he “emptied his clip.”

“The dude just dropped,” Larry said, referring to the suspect.

Randy said the CHP officer then held the passengers in the suspect vehicle at gunpoint until backup arrived on scene. The injured officer was then carried away by his fellow officers.

The Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office, Arcata Police Department, California Highway Patrol and Humboldt State University Police Department also responded to the incident.

Will Houston can be reached at 707-441-0504.

From a 10:38 p.m. press release from the Eureka Police Department:

On Sunday, 11/01/15, at about 4:19 PM, Eureka Police Department officers were dispatched to the vicinity of 4th and ‘Q’ Streets to assist a California Highway Patrol officer who had just been shot during a traffic stop. Officers from other local agencies responded to assist as well.

Upon arrival, officers observed an adult male down in the roadway next to the driver’s door of an older model, green two-door sedan. The suspect’s vehicle was stopped facing northbound on ‘Q’ Street between 3rd and 4th Streets with the CHP unit behind it. The CHP officer, who had been shot in the leg, was at his vehicle holding the remaining 4 passengers in the sedan at gunpoint.

EPD officers evacuated the wounded CHP officer back to a position of cover and then detained the occupants of the suspect’s vehicle one at a time at gunpoint. Once the area was secured, emergency medical personnel summoned to the scene began rendering aid to the officer and suspect. Both were transported to a local hospital by ambulance where the suspect was later pronounced deceased. The officer sustained a non-life threatening gunshot wound and is expected to survive.

This officer involved shooting (OIS) is being investigated by the multi-agency Humboldt County Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT). Since the incident occurred within the City of Eureka, EPD is heading up the investigation with a co-lead from the Humboldt County District Attorney’s Office. Other agencies assisting with the CIRT investigation include the Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office, Humboldt County Drug Task Force, and Fortuna Police Department. Criminologists with the California Department of Justice (DOJ) are processing the scene for evidence.

4th Street has been shut down to all westbound traffic at ‘R’ Street as investigators work through the night to process the scene. ‘Q’ Street has also been closed to traffic between 3rd Street and Myrtle Avenue.

Previous reports from the scene on Sunday:

UPDATE: A CHP officer shot during a Sunday afternoon traffic stop at Q and 4th streets in Eureka returned fire, killing the suspect, according to Eureka Police Chief Andrew Mills.

Mills said the suspect exited the car while shooting. After the officer who was hit returned fire, he held the remaining passengers at gunpoint until EPD units responded to the scene.

No condition on the officer was released. Mills did not take questions, citing the ongoing investigation. He did not say how many were detained or how many shots were fired.

Caltrans reports via Facebook that “southbound 4th street in Eureka will be closed until further notice as police investigate the shooting of a CHP officer. Please avoid the area.”

PREVIOUS REPORT: A shooting occurred on the 300 block of Q Street in Eureka around 4:30 p.m., with at least two people being taken away by ambulance and three detained, according to preliminary information from the scene. Initial scanner traffic indicated a CHP officer was one of the wounded and others were being held at gunpoint by police. A reporter at the scene said the officer was conscious as he was being taken away by ambulance and another person being loaded into an ambulance while being given CPR on a stretcher. Police have 4th Street between Q and R blocked off and traffic was being diverted. Police were also canvassing buildings in the area looking for bullet holes. A reporter at the scene said he saw two men and a woman being put into police cars. One man at the scene said he saw the shooting occur during a traffic stop. The man, who would only say his first name was Randy, said the officer was shot in the leg after he pulled over a car. He said the officer returned fire and the man who was shot fell to the ground. More information will be posted as it becomes available.