Bounty hunters were part of a nationwide manhunt for two Missouri fugitives who ended up in Pacific Beach, where a San Diego police sergeant fatally shot Timothy Gene Smith on Wednesday.

Sgt. Scott Holslag, a 19-year San Diego police veteran, killed Smith, 47, when he thought the man was reaching into his pockets for a weapon, police homicide Lt. Paul Rorrison said.

No weapon was found on Smith, Rorrison said.

Correction An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that San Diego police Sgt. Scott Holslag was wearing a body camera. The story has been corrected.

Holslag had not been issued a body camera, but police have body-camera evidence from other officers, police spokesman Lt. Scott Wahl said.

It is the second time Holslag has shot and killed a suspect who appeared to be going for a gun.

Smith and a female companion, Janie Sanders, 32, were the subject of a manhunt in Missouri that included a bounty hunter son of television star “Dog the Bounty Hunter” Duane Chapman.

Leland Chapman, who has his own trackdown TV show, went to Richmond, Mo. in October to help a bailbonds company find Smith and Sanders, according to a Richmond News story.

The news story said the pair were in a vehicle and tried to run down Marc and Natalie Macey, of Macey Bail Bonds in Richmond. Natalie Macey was reported as saying the pair were suspected of being involved in drugs and passing bad checks in numerous small Missouri towns.

Bail agent Dan Escamilla in Santa Ana said in an interview Friday that Chapman handed off the Sanders fugitive recovery case to his company on Monday.

Escamilla said Smith has a violent criminal past ranging from child molestation, armed robbery, firing an assault rifle in a Missouri motel and leading state troopers there on a pursuit.

“Because of the fact (Sanders) was with a felony fugitive known to be violent, we put this on top of our list,” said Escamilla, who runs Global Fugitive Recovery and chairs the fugitive recovery section of a statewide association of bail agents.

He said they knew the pair had boarded a train in Missouri, possibly carrying an AK 47 assault rifle and a revolver, and arrived in San Diego on Sunday. On Monday, he and fugitive recovery agents from Riverside County staked out the Santa Fe Train Depot in downtown San Diego and collected information that Sanders and Smith were hanging out in Pacific Beach, homeless.

The wanted poster for Smith and Sanders.

The agents staked out restrooms in Fanuel Park in Pacific Beach on Tuesday and thought at one point that the couple was inside. They called San Diego police, who responded with a helicopter, dog and ballistic gear. The man and woman who were lingering in the mens’ room turned out not to be the fugitives, Escamilla said.

He said he shared a wanted poster photo of the pair with police, so officers would know who to look for.

The bounty hunters called off their investigations for the night when a major rainstorm hit, and were planning to come back Wednesday evening when the couple might be expected to be using public restrooms at the park, Escamilla said.

However, police ended up shooting Smith and arresting Sanders before the bounty hunters could resume their manhunt.

The deadly encounter started minutes before 3 p.m. Wednesday when patrol officers on Garnet Avenue saw Smith and recognized him from the wanted poster. The poster said Smith was to be considered armed and dangerous.

When the officers tried to stop Smith, he ran south through an apartment complex and on for another two blocks, the San Diego police homicide lieutenant said. Rorrison said the officers lost sight of Smith, but a police helicopter crew located him in a shed between apartment buildings on Thomas Avenue.

Officers, including Holslag and his police dog, surrounded the shed and ordered Smith to come out. Smith bolted and tried to jump over a fence, Rorrison said. He said the police dog was loosed and bit Smith’s foot before the fugitive shook him off and scaled the fence.

Rorrison said Smith then climbed onto a ledge at an apartment building, turned toward Holslag and started reaching into his pockets. The sergeant told Smith several times to show his hands, but he didn’t, and Holslag shot him once in the torso.

“Based on the information regarding the suspect being armed and dangerous and his failure to comply with the officers’ orders, (Holslag) believed the suspect was retrieving a weapon and feared for his safety and the safety of the public,” Rorrison said in a statement.

He said other officers tried life-saving measures, but Smith died.

Later in the evening, SWAT officers a few blocks away on Ingraham Street helped take Sanders into custody. She is to be arraigned on Monday and faces extradition to Missouri.

The officer who shot Smith was involved in another shooting on Feb. 28, 2002. Holslag was cleared by then- District Attorney Paul Pfingst of any wrongdoing in the death of Gary Martin, 39, in Pacific Beach.

A report by prosecutors said Martin was in a car at a construction site at 3 a.m. when Holslag and Officer Larry Hesselgesser contacted him. Holslag said he thought Martin was under the influence of methamphetamine and the officers asked to search his car.

Pfingst said the officers were standing on each side of the car when Martin starting rummaging into the center console and ignored orders to show his hands. Martin turned toward Holslag, who fired a round that hit the passenger door. Martin went for something again, turned again toward Holslag, who fired at him twice. The rounds hit Martin in the shoulder and back and he died at a hospital.

Pfingst found that Martin’s aggressive behavior caused Holslag to fear for his safety.

pauline.repard@sduniontribune.com