Louisiana’s head of police said there was no evidence that the father of a boy killed in a police encounter was armed when shots were fired on Tuesday night.

During a press conference on Thursday, Colonel Michael Edmonson also said there was some video of the shooting into a car in Marksville, Louisiana, but that officials have not had a chance to review it.

The boy, Jeremy Mardis, was a passenger in the car that his father Chris Few was driving. Police said Few was evading the police after they tried to serve a warrant, and officers began shooting when Few reached a dead end and began backing into the officers, according to the AP.

Mardis was “caught in the line of fire” and killed by multiple gunshot wounds to the head and torso, Avoyelles Parish coroner Dr LJ Mayeux said. Mayeux previously told the Guardian it was “highly likely” Mardis was killed by police, although police hedged from confirming who was responsible for Mardis’s death. Few is in critical but stable condition.

State police said the officers fired at Few’s car when he backed his car toward the officers. But the orange spray paint on the dead-end road that marks the location and orientation of each car seems to show that Few’s car sat perpendicular to the officers’ cars, and that the volley of bullets entered through the driver’s side. A spray of glass on the ground appears to have been blown outward from the passenger’s side.

Willie Barton, who lives nearby, came out of his house when he heard the sirens and saw three stopped police cars – two black-and-white, and one dark blue – facing the little SUV.

Barton paced off the distance between the cars, and examined the paint that apparently marked locations of bullet casings.

“I don’t see why they had to shoot him, not knowing if there was anyone else in the car,” he said. “They aren’t supposed to do that.”

Chris Few and his son Jeremy Mardis. Photograph: Facebook

The site of the pursuit and shooting is residential, and as Barton watched, he said, neighbors in every direction stepped outside to see what was happening.

Seconds before the shooting, his common-law wife, Marie Lonzo, turned at the corner where Taensas Street meets Martin Luther King, Jr Drive.

She saw a small SUV, a tiny jeep-like car, coming toward her, and behind it police cars in both lanes. She pulled to the side of the road to avoid a collision with the black-and-white cars, and saw the whole procession come to a stop at the corner behind her.



“It was close,” she said.

The officers involved in Monday’s pursuit were ward marshals, local law enforcement officials that primarily serve warrants and subpoenas. Ward marshals, also known as city marshals, operate independently from the Marksville police department, although some local police officers work second jobs as ward marshals, Marksville’s mayor, John Lemoine, told the Guardian. The ward marshal involved in Monday’s shooting is believed to be an off-duty Marksville police officer, according to Clyde Benson, a Marksville councilman and police commissioner.



Floyd Voinche, the ward marshal for Ward 2 and the head of the agency involved in Monday’s shooting, could not be reached for comment. Voinche is an elected official and his office operates independently.

Steve Martel, the chief deputy of the Avoyelles Parish sheriff’s department, said that marshals have law enforcement authority but do not always exercise it.

“Their police function is really negligible,” Martel said. “They’re basically there as a civil function but they also have law enforcement authority as they do in Ward 2.”

