UPDATE: Officials release name of man in fatal Valley crash

The Douglas County Deputy's office is investigating a fatal crash that was reported around 2:30 a.m. Thursday.Officials said a truck crashed into the Valmont Coatings Valley Galvanizing Plant, located at 288th and Ida streets.Valley Police and Fire Rescue also responded.Police say Richard Stubbs, 58, was the driver of the truck who died at the scene.Valley Police Chief Brett Smith confirmed Stubbs was intoxicated.A security guard was also seriously injured when the truck crashed into a security shack near the plant's south entrance.The guard was taken to Nebraska Medicine.Valley Police Chief Brett Smith says one of his officers spotted Stubbs, and started a pursuit. It started slowly, but then he says Stubbs sped up.“He was going really, really fast,” Smith said.Police say they terminated the chase just before the crash.Stubbs’ family didn't want to talk on camera, but they say Stubbs was a recovering alcoholic who had been sober for more than 25-years before he recently relapsed.Valley Police are still investigating exactly what happened and what role alcohol may have played.

The Douglas County Deputy's office is investigating a fatal crash that was reported around 2:30 a.m. Thursday.



Officials said a truck crashed into the Valmont Coatings Valley Galvanizing Plant, located at 288th and Ida streets.



Advertisement

Valley Police and Fire Rescue also responded.



Police say Richard Stubbs, 58, was the driver of the truck who died at the scene.



Valley Police Chief Brett Smith confirmed Stubbs was intoxicated.



A security guard was also seriously injured when the truck crashed into a security shack near the plant's south entrance.



The guard was taken to Nebraska Medicine.



Valley Police Chief Brett Smith says one of his officers spotted Stubbs, and started a pursuit. It started slowly, but then he says Stubbs sped up.



“He was going really, really fast,” Smith said.



Police say they terminated the chase just before the crash.



Stubbs’ family didn't want to talk on camera, but they say Stubbs was a recovering alcoholic who had been sober for more than 25-years before he recently relapsed.



Valley Police are still investigating exactly what happened and what role alcohol may have played.

