LAKESHIRE • After a bleeding child roused neighbors for help in saving his mother from a hammer-and-knife attack, responding police said they had to kill the boy’s uncle when he went after them too.

Jillian Hohman, 33, and her son Blake, 12, were seriously wounded in the incident Thursday night but reported to be stable in a hospital. Jacob Hohman, 30, who lived with them in an apartment in the 10100 block of Puttington Drive, off Tesson Ferry Road, died at a hospital.

Officials said the two officers, one from the tiny south St. Louis County city of Lakeshire and one from the county police, had no choice but to save themselves by shooting Jacob Hohman as he came at them with a hammer held over his head.

The first in a series of 911 calls came about 10:40 p.m., after Blake ran to the apartment house next door and climbed about 20 steps to bang on the doors of the apartments of Lisa DeVole and Lynda Hayes. DeVole answered first.

“He starts screaming, ‘Help me!’” DeVole, 39, said. “I opened the door and saw him covered in blood. It was bad. He was cut all the way across his face, his ear was split in half, he had a big cut across the back and then the guy hit him in the back of the head with a hammer, so his whole back head was blown open from the hammer.”

Blake told DeVole that his uncle had stabbed his mother in the neck, and that the child had hit him in the back of the head with a hammer to try to help her.

“And then the uncle turned on him, started stabbing him and then hit him in the back of the head with the hammer,” DeVole said. “And his mom was yelling, ‘Go get help! Go get help!’”

DeVole said Blake then said something even more shocking.

“Blake said, ‘I should have sacrificed myself, I should have let him kill me instead of my mom,’” DeVole said. “Who says that — at 12?”

DeVole said she was surprised at how polite he was in the crisis.

“He was more together than I was at this point. He was telling me, ‘I can’t go to school tomorrow.’ He’s like, ‘I’m sorry.’ And I told him, ‘You did nothing wrong. You saved your mom’s life.’ ”

When the only Lakeshire officer on duty arrived, he saw a woman lying in the doorway of her apartment. Seconds later, Jacob Hohman emerged, holding a claw hammer, and told the officer, “I’m going to kill you,” according to Lt. Col. Ken Cox, deputy chief of the county police.

“He raised the hammer and chased the officer to the front of the apartment building,” Cox said at a news conference. The Lakeshire officer yelled at the man to drop the hammer. He wouldn’t do it, so the Lakeshire officer fired two shots, Cox said.

Jacob Hohman fell down, but it didn’t end there.

“He stood right back up, drew his attention to the St. Louis County officer who was assisting, raised the hammer, and as he closed in on him, the officer fired six rounds,” Cox added.

It was unclear how many of the eight shots hit him. The attacker died at a hospital.

The officers’ names were not released. The one from Lakeshire is a sergeant with 44 years of experience. The county officer has eight years of experience. Both were put on administrative leave, the usual protocol.

Jillian Hohman suffered cuts on her throat and face, defensive wounds on her hands, and blunt force trauma to her head, police said. She had surgery Friday, and investigators weren’t able to interview her.

“Hopefully she can shed some light about what set this guy off,” county police Sgt. Brian Schellman said.

Police were checking the possibility that there had been an argument over visiting Jacob’s and Jillian’s father in a hospital.

Officials said they were interviewing other relatives. They said Jacob Hohman had no criminal record, and the only previous call to that address was two days before, regarding someone sick.

Hayes, who has known Jillian Hohman and her son for more than five years, said she knew that Jacob Hohman was living with them but rarely saw him leave the apartment. “He was a recluse,” Hayes said. “He just stayed in bed all day.”

Lakeshire, with about 1,400 residents, has just 11 streets and is 0.2 square miles. Its city hall, police station and municipal court are all just down Puttington Drive from the crime scene.

Police said that none of the officers involved was wearing a body camera.

Christine Byers of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

EDITOR'S NOTE: This version has been updated to correct the size of Lakeshire.