Two Portland police tactical officers shot and killed a suicidal man Friday after he held a gun to his head, was ranting incoherently and fired at least two rounds from a handgun in a parking lot across the street from Good Samaritan Medical Center.

The stand-off snarled traffic in the busy Northwest Portland neighborhood and put the hospital on lockdown for three hours as workers contacted patients to expect some surgery delays.

Police said the two tactical officers shot the 51-year-old man when he fired his handgun towards police. The police shots came about an hour into the confrontation and some time after the man had first fired two shots into the ground.

"It's never a good day when this happens,'' said Mayor Charlie Hales, who serves as the city's police commissioner and went to the scene.

Hales noted that it was ironic Police Chief Larry O'Dea wasn't there because he was speaking at a conference across town at OHSU Hospital about police encounters with people in mental health crisis.

The Police Bureau is under a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and required to adopt a range of reforms in response to a 2012 federal investigation that found police used excessive force against people with mental illness.

Police got a call at 5:41 a.m. that a man had a gun to his head in a parking lot across from Good Samaritan, at Northwest 22nd Avenue between Lovejoy and Kearney streets. The initial call was that he wasn't threatening others.

As the tactical officers were moving in to relieve the initial patrol officers, two of the tactical officers fired at the 51-year-old, when they saw him fire a third round towards officers at the scene, according to police. The two tactical officers are both 22-year police bureau veterans.

Once the man dropped to the ground, a third tactical officer from the Special Emergency Reaction Team fired a less-lethal baton at the man's lower body because the man was "still armed with a gun,'' according to a police release. Seeing no response, the SERT officers approached and started to provide emergency aid, police said.

Portland fire paramedics assigned to the tactical squad moved in to provide immediate care, but the man was pronounced dead at the scene.

Officer Daryl Turner, president of the Portland Police Association, said the police fired the shots to protect officers and the community.

"Obviously, the officers' lives were threatened, and the community was threatened, and that's why they had to use deadly force,'' Turner said.

By then, the hospital had announced over its loudspeakers a "Code Black,'' or active shooter situation, employee LaLiberte said.

Elizabeth Trudo, who lives on Kearney Street, said she heard one loud gunshot shortly after 5 a.m. Friday, and some time later, thought she heard four or five gunshots.

Darren Anstine, a Walsh Construction Co. worker who was doing work on a residential building on Northwest Kearney, said he heard one shot, then a pause, followed by another shot. Then there was a gap in time, he said, before he heard another four or five rapid gunshots.

No one at the hospital was harmed.

Early-morning surgery patients were contacted to expect delays, said Legacy Health spokesman Brian Terrett.

By 9 a.m., the lockdown had been lifted and the biggest obstacle was traffic around the hospital as detectives investigating the shooting kept Northwest 22nd closed down. There was no indication that the man had any involvement at the hospital, Terrett said.

Police spent hours photographing evidence in the open parking lot at Northwest Kearney and 22nd Avenue. They also had cordoned off the second floor parking level of the medical office building across the street, where multiple yellow evidence police markers were placed on the ground and being photographed.

The shooting marked the third fatal officer-involved shooting this year in Portland and sixth officer-involved shooting in total this year.

Jason Renaud, of the Mental Health Association of Portland, said he's discouraged by the number of police-involved shootings this year.

"Some will have the opinion that because the individual had a gun - or used a gun - their death is expected. This is entirely wrong,'' Renaud said. "No death should be expected and no police officer should be expected to assist a suicide by pulling the trigger of their service weapon.''

Friday's shooting was similar to a fatal shooting two years ago of an armed man in the parking garage outside Portland Adventist Medical Center. In that case, the man who was killed, Merle Hatch, had been taunting officers and the shooting was caught on video by a nearby witness.

Police ask that anyone with information on the incident contact Det. Erik Kammerer at 503-823-0762, erik.kammerer@portlandoregon.gov or Det. Mark Sponhauer at 503-823-0416, mark.sponhauer@portlandoregon.gov.

-- Stuart Tomlinson of The Oregonian contributed to this report.

-- Maxine Bernstein

mbernstein@oregonian.com

503-221-8212

@maxoregonian

-- Stuart Tomlinson

stomlinson@oregonian.com 503-221-8313 @ORweather