SAN JOSE — Prosecutors say a sniper with the San Jose Police Department lawfully shot and killed a man who held hostage his former landlord and killed her before getting in a shootout with officers in November 2015, according to the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office.

Another officer suffered a graze wound in the gunfire that ended with the death of suspect Leonel Acevedo, a 45-year-old San Jose resident. When the dust settled, officers went into the Camden Avenue home where he had held 53-year-old Yolanda Najera against her will for hours, and found Najera dead from multiple gunshot wounds.

Prosecutors who examined the officer-involved shooting said in a report released Tuesday that Sgt. Justin Moro was responding to an immediate danger when he fired the shot that killed Acevedo in the evening of Nov. 9, 2015.

“There is no question that the situation Acevedo created carried such an imminent threat of death or great bodily injury to Sergeant (Justin) Moro’s fellow officers that the only reasonable action available to him was to fire his weapon at Acevedo,” the report stated in its conclusion.

Related Articles November 10, 2015 Crime and Public Safety | San Jose: Woman killed by former renter after hostage standoff, authorities say Authorities say that on the evening of the shooting, Acevedo, who had been evicted from the home the previous July, forced his way into the home with a ruse that he was selling a car to a current resident there, and made armed threats.

He soon grabbed Najera while the resident fled and called police. The resident told police that she heard the two struggle and saw him fire two gunshots into the floor, and heard a third gunshot as she ran away.

While barricading himself inside the home with Najera, Acevedo reportedly called Najera’s husband and taunted him. The ill will stemmed from an affair between Acevedo and Najera that ended with his eviction once her husband found out, prosecutors said.

Acevedo eventually emerged from the home where he paced outside. A photojournalist with this newspaper captured an image of Acevedo standing out front, holding a semiautomatic pistol at his right side, with a helmeted officer aiming an gun on him.

At one point Acevedo fired as many as eight shots at officers staging a short distance away, and Moro, the police sniper, fired two bullets from about 60 yards away that hit Acevedo but did not incapacitate him.

A third bullet killed Acevedo, who police said was also found with a black revolver in his left hand, while a baggie containing 29 bullets was recovered from his back pocket.

One of the officers the suspect shot at was hit in the leg and found a bullet lodged in the heel of his boot, authorities said. The wounded officer was expected to recover.

A search of court records did not show any criminal history for Acevedo in the county for at least the past decade.