Hide Transcript Show Transcript

WEBVTT < 54:40 "Delvin was an outgoing person, nice, kind." DELVIN

Advertisement Chief: Man killed by officer on campus linked to multiple car break-ins SLED officials say there is no dashcam or bodycam video of the shooting. Share Copy Link Copy

A suspect who was with a man killed by an officer was suspected in multiple auto break-ins.Delvin Tyrell Simmons was shot and killed by an officer on the Spartanburg Methodist College campus. He and Oliver Chandler, who was with Simmons, are suspects in multiple car break-ins, including some on the Gardner-Webb University Campus, according to Chief Barry Johnson.Johnson said an investigation links Simmons and Chandler to six to nine car break-ins on Nov. 2. Police said Chandler was out on bond for another car break-in, and he was wanted in North Carolina on similar charges.Johnson said police will present their evidence to the district attorney in the next couple of days for possible charges.Simmons, was the Limestone student, shot and killed on the Spartanburg Methodist College campus on Nov. 9.The shooting was reported just before 8:45 p.m, said Thom Berry of SLED.Berry said campus police officers were investigating a report of a car break-in outside Sparrow Hall.Lt. Kevin Bobo of the Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office said that by the time officers arrived, the two men, later identified as Simmons and Chandler, had fled the scene.Chandler was taken into custody on campus. Bobo said Simmons attempted to leave the scene in a car.Bobo said that when the two officers approached him, Simmons struck one of the officers with the car. The officer shot and killed Simmons, Bobo said. "He did not comply with verbal commands. He tried to exit the parking lot in a hurry, struck one of the officers with his vehicle and the officer felt in fear and defended himself," Bobo said.The officer was treated at the scene.SLED officials said there is no dashcam or bodycam video of the shooting. Related content: Simmons' father seeks justice | Sheriff Chuck Wright news conference on shooting | Video from scene of shooting | Pictures from scene of shootingSheriff Chuck Wright held a news conference to discuss the shooting. He said it is never fun to talk about when someone is hurt or killed, and he asked people to pray for the police officer who “didn’t want to do this” and who is at home, “hurt and devastated,” and for Simmons’ family.“I’m going to cut the head off this snake before it gets to wiggling,” Wright said. “The suspect was a black gentleman and the officer is a white gentleman. This has zero to do with color. It has everything to do with an officer’s life being put in jeopardy and him defending himself lawfully.”Wright said preliminary findings, the officer’s statement and witness statements all indicate that the officers fired in self-defense.“You will not run over or try to hurt law enforcers,” he said.Wright said he is sorry that Simmons’ family lost a loved one, and that Simmons made “a terrible choice that cost him his life.” Wright said the State Law Enforcement Division will investigate the shooting as an impartial agency. He said the SMC police just received bodycams within the past week, but they had not yet been set up for use. He said surveillance video from the campus would be used in the SLED investigation. He said Simmons and Chandler were apparently on campus for a sporting event.Limestone College released a statement Tuesday afternoon that said: “The thoughts and prayers of Limestone College are with the family and friends of one of its students who was killed during an incident at Spartanburg Methodist College on the evening of Nov. 9.“Two suspects were involved in the incident, and one was fatally wounded by an SMC campus police officer.“The shooting victim, Delvin Tyrell Simmons of Ridgeway, South Carolina, was currently enrolled at Limestone as an early childhood education major. In his second year at the College, Mr. Simmons was involved in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and the Call Me MISTER program.“The other suspect allegedly involved and taken into custody, Oliver Mylik Chandler, is a former student at Limestone. Chandler was suspended from Limestone for academic reasons effective in May 2015. A graduate of Darlington High School, he was a former member of the Limestone College football and track teams.“Limestone College expects all of its enrolled students to conduct themselves as good citizens and neighbors at both on and off-campus locations. We take pride in the responsibility of our students and the social and educational atmosphere of our campus. Limestone students are held responsible for their conduct at all times. Any student who engages in academic or social misconduct is subject to disciplinary action. The college reserves the right to withdraw from any student the privilege of attending Limestone for any lawful reason that the college deems appropriate."The shooting was the 42nd officer-involved shooting in South Carolina in 2015 and the first this year involving an officer of the Spartanburg Methodist College Police Department.