Jason Addy, and Liz Evans Scolforo

York Dispatch

Shazmir Martino, 20, was arrested Monday in Springettsbury Township by the U.S. Marshals Fugitive Task Force.

Martino faces 10 felony charges, including two counts of third-degree murder, following a double-fatal crash in November 2015.

A York City man facing two counts of murder following a November 2015 fatal crash was arrested Monday by the U.S. Marshals Service.

Shazmir Shaun Martino, 20, of 127 W. Cottage Place, was found Monday in the 800 block of Bonneview Road in Springettsbury Township by the group’s Fugitive Task Force, according to a news release from the U.S. Marshals Service.

Martino was taken into custody without incident and turned over to local authorities, according to the release.

Double-homicide charges: Martino faces decades in prison if convicted on the multiple charges he is accused of after allegedly causing a double-fatal crash while fleeing from Spring Garden Township Police 16 months ago.

Man charged in Spring Garden Twp. double-fatal crash

On Wednesday, state police filed 10 felony charges against Martino, including two counts each of third-degree murder and homicide by vehicle and one count each of aggravated assault by vehicle and fleeing or attempting to elude police. Martino also is charged with three counts of causing an accident involving death or personal injury while not properly licensed.

State police allege that Martino was fleeing from police in his 2003 Buick LeSabre about 4:30 p.m. Nov. 8, 2015, when he crashed into a garage at a high rate of speed. The garage then collapsed on the car.

Cousins Brandon Lamar Moultrey, 22, and Elijah Juan Moultrey, 19 — both of York City — were killed in the crash.

A third passenger, then-17-year-old Brandon Smallwood, was thrown during the crash and suffered numerous serious injuries, according to state police, who said Martino also was hurt.

How it started: Charging documents state that the four young men assaulted another young man on the grounds of York Suburban High School, beating him into unconsciousness.

They fled, but Spring Garden Township police officers called to the scene spotted them and gave chase, documents state.

Officers tried to pull over the Buick in the area of Hollywood Drive and Hill Street, but it took off, passing other northbound vehicles as it fled, according to documents.

The Buick was still accelerating as it crossed the railroad tracks on Hill Street, then slid through the intersection of Third Avenue and Harrison Street, police said.

Officers reported the Buick "appeared to be flying through the air sideways" as it crashed into the garage, documents state.

Using the Buick's event-data recorder, police determined the Buick had been going 83 mph in a 25 mph zone just five seconds before the crash. At one second before impact, it had slowed to 56 mph, police said.

Police release names of injured in double-fatal Spring Garden police chase

That speed was too fast for a curve Martino was trying to negotiate, and the Buick slid sideways, struck a curb with its right tires and flipped, police said.

Victim was a fugitive: At the time of the crash, Brandon Moultrey was a wanted fugitive.

He was supposed to report to York County Prison on Oct. 6, 2015, to begin serving a 1½- to three-year state prison sentence for dealing heroin, court records state.

But he failed to show, and three days later a bench warrant was issued for his arrest, according to court records. He also was wanted on a state parole violation, officials said.

Brandon Moultrey also had an earlier drug-dealing conviction, according to court records, and Elijah Moultrey had one drug-dealing conviction.

Investigators determined that Smallwood and Brandon Moultrey were sitting in the back seat of the Buick and that Elijah Moultrey was in the front passenger seat, according to charging documents.

State police investigated the crash because Spring Garden Township Police had been involved in the pursuit leading up to it.