Maranda Faris

The Jackson Sun

Michael Bartkiewicz called Gibson County Central Control at least six times the night he was killed in an officer-involved shooting, Gibson County Sheriff Paul Thomas said at a news conference Monday.

In the calls on Nov. 13, Bartkiewicz threatened to shoot police officers, according to Thomas and recordings of the 911 calls.

Thomas and three deputies responded along with Tennessee Highway Patrol troopers to Bartkiewicz's house, at 26 Petty Lane outside Trenton. They eventually shot and killed Bartkiewicz in his driveway after he came outside with what appeared to be a handgun, Thomas said Monday. The gun was later determined to be fake. The district attorney has determined the shooting was justified.

DA calls November shooting justified

"The phone call I got was probably around 9:30 Friday night, Nov. 13. One of my supervisors called me and told me the situation," Thomas said. "He said we've got a guy who's making some 911 calls to dispatch, basically threatening to shoot some officers and asking officers to come to his house. If we didn't show up, then he was going to come to town and start looking for officers."

Recordings of the 911 calls from Nov. 13 were released to the media Monday. A friend also called 911, asking for a deputy to check on Bartkiewicz because he "was having a bad night" and had stopped responding to phone calls or text messages.

VIDEO: 911 audio released in November shooting

In his first call to dispatchers, Bartkiewicz said officers needed to come to his home.

"The time is now. You had better send as many officers as you can, and they are going to be shot at," Bartkiewicz said in the call.

Bartkiewicz immediately disconnected the line, as dispatchers asked where he was.

In his second call, he told dispatchers that he would look for officers if they didn't come to his home.

"If they don't come, I'm going to go looking for them," he said in the recorded call.

Dispatchers asked Bartkiewicz for his address, but he would not tell them, only saying, "I'm at my home." He then told dispatchers they should be able to find his address.

When asked why he needed a deputy, he disconnected. In a later call, Bartkiewicz told dispatchers that he was "having a crisis." He also said police had two minutes to arrive before he left to find an officer.

"I'm looking for an officer to either come to my house and either shoot me, or I'm going to shoot them," he said in one call.

VIDEO: Gibson County Sheriff Paul Thomas on November shooting

Thomas said he and several deputies met at Petty Lane and tried to talk with Bartkiewicz. Thomas said he called Bartkiewicz's home phone number from the road, and got no answer.

A 911 recording was released Monday in which Thomas called Gibson County's dispatch center and asked to be connected to Bartkiewicz's home number, which Bartkiewicz had been using to call 911. Bartkiewicz did not answer, and Thomas left a message, asking him to call and talk about the ongoing situation.

"One of the state troopers had already driven by and said the house was completely dark — there were no lights on inside or outside," Thomas said.

Almost an hour and a half after the first calls were made, Thomas and the deputies moved closer to Bartkiewicz's home. Recordings of 911 calls indicate Trenton police had officers on standby to assist if they were needed.

Bartkiewicz told dispatchers that he intended to kill himself because no deputies had come to his home.

Man charged with attempted murder in stabbing

Thomas said deputies blocked Petty Lane at the Highway 79 entrance, as well as a back entrance that was almost directly across the street from Bartkiewicz's home.

Thomas said that, as he and the deputies parked outside the house, an officer saw someone walk past a window in the house, and then walk by the window again seconds later.

"By the time I got to the rear of a trooper's car, I heard someone say, 'Here he comes,'" Thomas said.

Thomas could not see anyone coming out of the house from where he was, but said, once he moved, he could see Bartkiewicz.

"I saw a subject coming down the driveway, arm was straight out, and he was lit up fairly well because of the spotlights we had on the house," Thomas said. "I saw what I believed to be a gun, looked like a gun, shaped like a gun. It was stretched straight out in front of him in his left hand."

Thomas said Bartkiewicz continued walking toward deputies at the end of the driveway as they gave him orders to drop the weapon.

In 911 calls Bartkiewicz made, he said he had additional weapons in the home that he intended to use.

Thomas said officers later learned the gun Bartkiewicz had in his hand was not real.

TBI investigating overnight homicide

District Attorney General Garry Brown called in the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation to investigate the shooting. The TBI's findings were turned over to Brown, who determined the shooting to be justified last month.

Thomas said the deputies and dispatchers involved were offered counseling through the Tennessee Public Safety Network.

Reach Maranda at (731) 425-9657. Follow her on Twitter: @MarandaFaris