The Weld County Sheriff’s Office deputy involved in a fatal traffic crash in November was cited and is scheduled to appear in Weld County Court next month.

Deputy Tim Boxley, 46, was en route to a call about 3:30 p.m. Nov. 17 when he collided with a 2007 Nissan Altima driven by 74-year-old Gill resident Jose Mercado-Nova at the intersection of U.S. 85 and Weld County Road 66. Mercado-Nova was facing west at a stop sign at Weld 66, which also is AA Street, and entered the intersection, failing to yield to Boxley, who had the right-of-way, according to Colorado State Patrol reports.

Boxley, who was driving a marked 2014 Ford Explorer, was traveling north on U.S. 85. Troopers estimate Boxley was driving 101 mph in a 65-mph zone at the time of the crash, reports stated. Boxley had not activated his lights and siren.

Mercado-Nova initially survived the crash, but was later pronounced dead at North Colorado Medical Center. Boxley was cited with careless driving causing death, a misdemeanor. He is scheduled to appear at 9 a.m. Jan. 26 for an arraignment in Weld County Court.

At the time of the crash, Cpl. Matt Turner, spokesman for the Weld County Sheriff’s Office, said he knew Boxley was attached to a call but didn’t think he was speeding to a scene. On Tuesday, Turner said Boxley was en route to assist with a report of another traffic crash on Colo. 392.

According to information in the call log, deputies believed the crash on Colo. 392 was weather related, Turner said. There were high winds on Nov. 17, and deputies thought the driver lost control because his vehicle was struck by flying debris. Multiple agencies responded to the call, Turner said.

However, Turner declined to comment about why Boxley hadn’t activated his lights and siren, citing the deputy’s court date next month. An internal investigation is ongoing and also is pending Boxley’s first appearance in court, Turner said. He declined to comment about any other details about the crash because the state patrol investigation is still active.

“It is our policy that any time a deputy – on or off duty – is involved in a traffic accident within the jurisdiction of the Weld County Sheriff’s Office that results in serious injury or a fatality, we ask another agency to perform the investigation to ensure that the incident is looked at from an outside perspective,” Turner said in a statement. “The purpose of our (internal) investigation is to see if there were any policy or procedure violations during the incident.”

Boxley, who sustained serious injuries in the crash, has been assigned to administrative duty pending the outcome of the internal investigation and his court case, Turner said.

Turner compared Boxley’s situation to officers involved in a fatal shooting in explaining why Boxley was placed on desk duty, and not paid administrative leave.

“His (Boxley’s) situation is different; it’s not the same as an officer-involved shooting,” Turner said. “He was involved in a tragic accident. We put him to work in the office so he’s here earning a living. He wouldn’t be doing us any good if he was sitting at home collecting a check.”