Comment on this story Comment Gift Article Share

THE DISTRICT No charges for officer who fatally shot knife-wielding man Fast, informative and written just for locals. Get The 7 DMV newsletter in your inbox every weekday morning. ArrowRight A D.C. police officer who fatally shot a man wielding a knife and brass knuckles last year will not face criminal charges, federal prosecutors said. The incident occurred about 1:50 p.m. Nov. 19, when Darick Napper, 34, of Southeast Washington approached an officerin a cruiser at Clay Terrace and 53rd Street NE, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District said in a statement.

Prosecutors said Napper — carrying a knife with a nine-inch blade and wearing brass knuckles with serrated knives over each knuckle of his left hand — put his face near the officer’s partially opened driver’s-side window.

The officer, whom prosecutors did not name, reversed her cruiser to put space between her and Napper, got out and stood behind her open car door, the statement said.

Advertisement

Prosecutors said the officer repeatedly ordered Napper to “drop the knife” but Napper ignored the command and banged on the hood of the cruiser.

The officer drew her weapon and again told Napper to drop the knife, according to prosecutors. Napper replied,“I will kill you out here” and moved quickly toward her before the officer fired one shot, the statement said.

Prosecutors said they found insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the officer used excessive force under the circumstances.

— Justin Wm. Moyer

Man arrested in 2015 fatal shooting

A man was arrested and charged with murder Thursday in a 2015 shooting, D.C. police said.

About 1:40 p.m. Dec. 9, officers responded to the report of a shooting in the 3500 block of East Capitol Street SE, D.C. police said in a statement. There, they found 23-year-old Michael Tyrone Jones Jr., of Southeast, dead of multiple gunshot wounds, police said.

Advertisement

On Thursday, members of the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force arrested 32-year-old Kenneth Bellamy II, of Southeast, according to the statement. Bellamy was charged with first-degree murder while armed in Jones’s shooting, police said.

— Justin Wm. Moye

VirgiNIA

Official accused of stealing student lunch money

A Fairfax County Public Schools official has been charged with embezzling a large sum of money intended for student lunches at an elementary school, police said.

Fadwa Sarsaur, 51, of Alexandria, is facing three counts of embezzlement for allegedly taking the money from several different lunch accounts at Bailey’s Elementary School for the Arts and Sciences in Falls Church over three years, police said. Police did not say how much was taken.

The investigation began June 16 after a food-services manager discovered discrepancies in accounting records. Sarsaur turned herself in to the Fairfax County jail Friday.

— Justin Jouvenal