This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

KANSAS CITY, Mo. — FOX 4 is learning new details about a woman killed in a two-car crash involving a Kansas City police vehicle. Investigators say two officers were travelling south on The Paseo near East 83rd when a woman driving eastbound pulled in front of them.

“I was just with her at the grocery store, buying Thanksgiving dinner and preparing for the holiday next week. My God I just can’t believe what’s happened to my daughter,” said a sobbing Jamesetta Weaver.

Weaver and her family are suddenly mourning their loved one, 48-year-old Chandra Weaver of Kansas City.

“She was a good person. Chandra was happy-go-lucky and she had a lot of friends,” Jamesetta Weaver told FOX 4’s Robert Townsend during an exclusive interview Tuesday afternoon at her home.

Kansas City police say shortly after 1 a.m. on Tuesday, two of their officers traveled south on The Paseo near 83rd Street in a marked patrol car and were heading to an emergency call, when Chandra Weaver pulled out in front of them.

Investigators say the officers tried, but the could not avoid plowing into Weaver’s driver side. Weaver, a mother of three adult kids and hospital worker, died instantly.

“I just don’t think my sister ran out in front of a police car. If she saw them she would’ve stopped. I believe those cops didn’t have their lights or sirens turned on,” said Jamie Turner, who couldn’t fight back the tears during an interview.

“Why did they wait so long to come and tell me? That crash happened at 1 a.m. and they didn’t come to my home and tell me that my daughter was killed until almost three hours. I would’ve liked to have gone there to see it for myself, but they cleaned up the site and then came to tell me she was dead,” said Jamesetta Weaver.

“I never got a chance to see my daughter’s body, so I don’t know if she was all broken up, I don’t know if her neck was broken or what were the extent of her injuries. I just don’t know nothing right now. I really think Chief Daryl Forte should come and talk to me,” added Chandra’s mother.

Police say at the time of the deadly wreck, Weaver, who was driving her mother’s black, Grand Am, was not wearing her seat belt. Police also believe Weaver may have been impaired by alcohol when the two vehicles collided.

Meantime, her family admits she had a drinking problem. However, in three weeks relatives say Weaver was looking forward to graduating from an alcoholics anonymous class, settling down in her new home and celebrating Thanksgiving next week with her family.

“She told her counselors that her family was going to be there to support her and she was so excited. My daughter was taking alcohol shots, medication to prevent her from drinking and I just don’t believe she drank before that crash. I want an autopsy done,” added Jamesetta Weaver.

“They also told us my sister wasn’t wearing a seat belt. I just don’t believe that because Chandra always wore her seat belt,” added Jamie Turner.

The two police officers were treated for minor injuries. A spokesperson for the police department wouldn’t tell FOX 4 how fast the officers traveled or whether their police lights and sirens were on at the time of the deadly wreck.

“The investigation continues,” said Sergeant Kari Thompson, with the Kansas City Police Department.

Meantime, family members have set up the “Chandra Weaver Burial Fund” on GoFundMe to assist with her funeral expenses.