FONTANA >> The shooting of an armed man by a Fontana police officer last year was found to be justified, the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office announced Tuesday.

Officer Shawn Michels shot and killed 50-year-old Martin Arturo Rivera on Nov. 20, 2015, following several days of erratic behavior from the man which neighbors attributed to his wife’s recent death, according to a statement released by the DA’s Office.

Michels was dispatched to a home near Tangelo Avenue and San Jacinto Court for a man who was banging on a neighbor’s door and threatening to hurt the woman inside, the report said.

The caller, who investigators say is the daughter of the woman in the home, told dispatchers the man, later identified as Rivera, had previously been arrested on for carrying a firearm, the statement indicates.

When Michels found Rivera on the porch of the home and began to walk toward the man, officials say Rivera grabbed the water hose and began to water the lawn and ignored Michels’ commands.

A second officer, Kathryn Clark, was also at the scene, the letter states.

Rivera eventually turned off the water but continued to ignore Michels’ orders for Rivera to show his hands. Instead, the letter states, “Rivera reached down and pulled his shirt up. At that time, Officer Michels could see the wood handle of a gun in Rivera’s pants.”

When Rivera reached down for the gun and began to pull the weapon out of his pocket, Michels immediately fired four shots at Rivera.

Clark requested medical aid and after additional officers arrived, Rivera was handcuffed and rolled over to check for a pulse. Officer Casey Mutter from the Fontana Police Department removed a revolver from Rivera’s pocket, investigators concluded.

“The revolver appeared loaded and the hammer of the revolver was cocked to the back position,” the letter said.

Clark started CPR on Rivera until paramedics arrived. He was then taken to Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Fontana where he died. According to records, his wife, Hortencia Rivera, had died at the same hospital months earlier.

“Officer Michels had an honest and reasonable belief that the use of deadly force was necessary to avoid being shot or killed by Rivera,” the DA investigator wrote in the statement.