By Laurie K. Blandford of TCPalm

FORT PIERCE — Neighbors still were in shock the day after what officials said was a Thursday night domestic disturbance that resulted in the deaths of a 27-year-old man and a 5-year-old girl.

St. Lucie County sheriff’s detectives continued Friday investigating what happened at the South 27th Street Apartments, where Fort Pierce police officers shot Steve Dormil to stop him from hurting his girlfriend’s daughter, Olesia Doug, said Sheriff Ken Mascara.

Olesia’s mother, 25-year-old Ivy Leopold, called 911 about 8:40 p.m. from her apartment in the 1000 block of South 27th Circle, near Okeechobee Road and South 25th Street.

“She arrived home from work and realized there was some kind of a disturbance with her (live-in) boyfriend and her daughter, which included him at the time doing harm to her,” said Mascara.

Four Fort Pierce police officers arrived and found Dormil sitting on top of Olesia, holding a knife to her neck, said sheriff’s officials. Police officers also saw she had multiple serious injuries, but the sheriff did not have details about those injuries.

Mascara can’t say exactly how officers accessed the apartment, but he confirmed everything took place inside the apartment.

“The officers, when they arrived, realized this was a very desperate situation, where he was over the victim, and they tried everything in their power to talk him away from her, and he just wouldn’t obey their commands,” Mascara said. “As a result, they had to use deadly force in an attempt to save that little girl’s life.”

Dormil died in the apartment, sheriff’s officials said. Mascara couldn’t answer if Dormil was in the process of stabbing Olesia when police officers opened fire, but he said Dormil wouldn’t get off her.

“After they shot the suspect, the officers immediately focused their attention on saving that little girl by rendering first aid, doing CPR and running her out to an ambulance instead of waiting for the ambulance personnel to come to them,” Mascara said. He couldn’t confirm if she was conscious at that point.

Olesia was taken to Lawnwood Regional Medical Center & Heart Institute where she died as a result of her injuries. It’s unknown if she died Thursday night or Friday morning.

A medical examiner was expected to perform autopsies Friday on Olesia and Saturday on Dormil, Mascara said. He expected by Monday to have those results, which would determine how Olesia died and how many times Dormil was shot.

Leopold is staying with family members in Fort Pierce, Mascara said. He couldn’t confirm if another child was there, but he said no one else was injured in the incident.

NEIGHBORS SHAKEN UP

The South 27th Street Apartments, which is owned by the Fort Pierce Housing Authority, isn’t a problematic area in terms of crime, police spokesman Officer E.J. Diaz said. Officers who patrol the area said they don’t get many repeat calls for activity at the complex. Even Mascara said the neighborhood has changed.

“Years ago, that was a very rough area,” Mascara said, “but, over the past couple years, it has definitely cleaned up.”

Nadeen Serrano, who has lived in the apartments for about four years, said her daughters, a 2-year-old and 10-month-old, would play with Olesia and her younger sister in the small community playground in the middle of the complex.

Her back door, which faces the playground, is less than 100 feet away from the back door of the apartment where the shooting occurred.

“We’re all shaken up about it, especially when it happens right next door to you,” Serrano said. “It’s very scary when it happens in your backyard.”

Serrano often would see Dormil sit on the small porch behind Leopold’s apartment, sometimes with Olesia and her sister. A regular-sized wooden chair and two little pink chairs remained there Friday.

She described Olesia as “outgoing” and “like any normal little kid.” Serrano said Dormil didn’t seem violent or threatening. She described them as “good neighbors.”

“He didn’t come off to me as a bad guy,” Serrano said. “I would always see him washing his car, sitting in the back and listening to his music. I never really saw any fighting, nothing like that.”

But Thursday night, Serrano said she heard “terrifying screams.”

She couldn’t make out what was being said, but she knew it was Leopold screaming. Serrano then saw police officers arrive and said she heard more than six gunshots.

“It all happened so quickly,” Serrano said. “When I heard gunshots, my body got numb, and I got scared.”

PREVIOUS ARRESTS

A state criminal records search showed Dormil had no felony or misdemeanor convictions other than pleading no contest to driving without a license in 2008.

The St. Lucie County Sheriff’s Office charged him with burglary of an unoccupied structure in 2008 and battery domestic violence in 2012, but both charges were dropped.

In the 2012 incident, both Dormil and Leopold were charged with battery domestic violence after a fight at their home in the 900 block of Fra Mar Place in Fort Pierce. The deputy said he could not determine who was the primary aggressor.

The argument was about a diaper on the floor, according to the affidavit. The charge was dropped against Leopold, who was pregnant at the time of the fight, the affidavit states.

Another battery domestic violence charge against Dormil by Orlando police was dropped.

In that case, Leopold told police she and Dormil were traveling to her cousin’s home in Orlando in June 2013. Dormil punched her multiple times in the face during an argument in the car, the Orlando police report states. At the time, Dormil’s and Leopold’s infant child was in the back seat, according to the report. The Department of Children and Families was contacted about the case. An alternate spelling of the dead man’s name, Steeve Doremil, showed up on multiple affidavits.

INVESTIGATION CONTINUES

Fort Pierce police officials requested the St. Lucie County Sheriff’s Office take over the investigation into the officer-involved shooting Thursday night because time was of the essence to preserve and collect evidence and to identify witnesses.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement typically take over officer-involved shootings, said sheriff’s officials, but state officials would’ve taken two hours to arrive from Orlando.

Fort Pierce police detectives aren’t investigating the shooting because it involves their own, and officials want to remain transparent and avoid any perception of impropriety, said Diaz.

The four Fort Pierce police officers involved in the shooting were put on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, which is protocol after an officer-involved shooting, Diaz said. Their names haven’t been released yet.

Sheriff’s officials were partnering with the state Department of Children and Families on Friday and looking into any past problems involving Dormil, Leopold or the children.

Staff writer Lamaur Stancil contributed to this report.

PLEASE HELP

Anyone with information about can call detectives at 772-462-3230.

Those who wish to give a tip anonymously and be eligible for a cash reward if the tip leads to an arrest, can contact Treasure Coast Crime Stoppers at 1-800-273-8477 (TIPS).

