A man who was possibly connected to a homicide outside a Natomas Home Depot killed himself Thursday night during a standoff at an Oakland motel, according to police.The suspect, who has not been positively identified by the Alameda County coroner, is believed to be 18-year-old Jason Brown, officers said.A Livermore police lieutenant said officers swarmed the motel in the 8400 block of Edes Avenue about 3 p.m. after tracking a suspect wanted in multiple murders.As police were preparing to enter the building about 11 p.m., they heard gunfire inside and later found Brown dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Oakland police said.No officers discharged their weapons during the standoff, Oakland police said.Officers previously raided a West Oakland home looking for Brown, who was connected to a deadly shooting on Oct. 24 in a CVS parking lot in Livermore, police Lt. John Hurd said Friday.Brown has also been connected with a Fresno homicide as well as the Sept. 28 shooting death of 53-year-old Walter Gibson outside a Home Depot on Truxel Road near Interstate 80 in Sacramento.Police previously arrested 24-year-old John Bunch in Gibson's killing, which they said was possibly drug-related.The shooting in Livermore killed 32-year-old Jose Mendoza of Turlock, according to Livermore police. A 22-year-old man was also injured in the shooting.The Fresno shooting on Sept. 12 left 27-year-old Albert Thao dead and another man hurt as the two were eating at the MeKhong Thai restaurant, according to police.Livermore police investigators believe a second person was involved in the shooting there, but have not identified that person.

A man who was possibly connected to a homicide outside a Natomas Home Depot killed himself Thursday night during a standoff at an Oakland motel, according to police.

The suspect, who has not been positively identified by the Alameda County coroner, is believed to be 18-year-old Jason Brown, officers said.

Advertisement

A Livermore police lieutenant said officers swarmed the motel in the 8400 block of Edes Avenue about 3 p.m. after tracking a suspect wanted in multiple murders.

As police were preparing to enter the building about 11 p.m., they heard gunfire inside and later found Brown dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, Oakland police said.

No officers discharged their weapons during the standoff, Oakland police said.

Officers previously raided a West Oakland home looking for Brown, who was connected to a deadly shooting on Oct. 24 in a CVS parking lot in Livermore, police Lt. John Hurd said Friday.

Brown has also been connected with a Fresno homicide as well as the Sept. 28 shooting death of 53-year-old Walter Gibson outside a Home Depot on Truxel Road near Interstate 80 in Sacramento.

Police previously arrested 24-year-old John Bunch in Gibson's killing, which they said was possibly drug-related.

The shooting in Livermore killed 32-year-old Jose Mendoza of Turlock, according to Livermore police. A 22-year-old man was also injured in the shooting.

The Fresno shooting on Sept. 12 left 27-year-old Albert Thao dead and another man hurt as the two were eating at the MeKhong Thai restaurant, according to police.

Livermore police investigators believe a second person was involved in the shooting there, but have not identified that person.