The Courier-Post

CAMDEN - No criminal charges will be filed against two Camden County Police officers who killed a man at a city apartment complex in November 2015, authorities said Thursday.

Camden County Prosecutor Mary Eva Colalillo said the use of deadly force was justified during a confrontation between the officers and 24-year-old Freddy Baez.

Pennsauken tot's death probed as homicide

The state Attorney General's Office "agreed with the conclusion," the prosecutor's office said in a statement.

Baez's mother, Veronica Cabrera of Philadelphia, has sued the county and its police force in federal court, alleging officers used excessive force.

Officer cleared in Camden man's death

Authorities say Baez was shot in a gunfight with officers responding to a domestic violence call at the Independence Village apartments, formerly known as the Crescent Gardens complex.

The mother's lawsuit asserts Baez was unarmed when he was shot once in the back of the head and multiple times in the chest.

According to the prosecutor's office, police went to a unit in the 3200 building on Rutledge Walk after a 911 caller said Baez was banging on her door and would not leave. The woman later made a second 911 call, saying she was not sure if Baez was armed and that he had assaulted her daughter earlier in the day.

As officers approached the building around 7 p.m., the statement said, "they were alerted by the dispatcher that Mr. Baez may have a gun."

"The officers drew their firearms and proceeded to the corner of the building," said the prosecutor's account.

It said one officer saw Baez, the father of two, kneeling in front of the caller's apartment, "partially concealed by a metal storm door."

"The officers saw Mr. Baez leaning forward with his head on the apartment door as he continued to bang on the door," the statement said.

When the officers were about 10 feet from Baez, one illuminated the man with a flashlight and ordered him to raise his hands.

Baez then allegedly fired one shot at the officers, who took cover and shot back, hitting him. One officer "described the bullet making a whistling sound as it went past his left ear," the account said.

It said a silver handgun was found in front of the porch where Baez fell, and a bullet was recovered from the courtyard.

Colalillo said she determined the officers' behavior followed the Attorney General's guidelines "in using deadly force to prevent serious injury or death."

Thomas Bruno, a Philadelphia attorney representing Baez's mother, said the criminal standard for wrongdoing "is not the same as the civil standard."



"Like every citizen, Freddy Baez had a constitutional right to be free from excessive police force," he said.

Jim Walsh; (856) 486-2646; jwalsh@gannettnj.com