GABE HERNANDEZ/CALLER-TIMES

SHARE COURTNEY SACCO/CALLER-TIMES The home in the 5000 block of Concord Street where an officer involved shooting acred occurred, Monday Nov. 23, 2015.

By Natalia Contreras of the Caller-Times

A 49-year-old man shot by police early Monday died in a local hospital hours after the shooting.

Corpus Christi police received a call just after midnight about a possible drug overdose.

When officers arrived at a house in the 5000 block of Concord Street, they were met by a confrontational man holding a knife, said Senior Officer Travis Pace. A video recorded by a police officer's body camera shown to media Monday by public information officers during a news conference, showed a woman, who officials said was the man's wife, crying and screaming "please" several times on the porch of the home.

Two officers approached the man, but remained just outside the front door and got the woman out of the area. The man was heard screaming "shoot me" inside the home. The video showed one officer trying to stun the man with a Taser, but police said it was ineffective. Soon after, officers ordered the man to put the knife down multiple times before firing three shots. The video did not show the man while he was being stunned and shot, and it was unclear what he was doing while officers approached him.

Cmdr. Michael Alanis said three people under the age of 18 were inside the home at the time of the shooting. One of those people was shown in the video trying to go close to the man, who was laying on the ground, and was asked by officers to stand back.

At least two officers will be on paid administrative leave, as per department policy, while the incident is investigated. None of the officers or anyone else in the home were injured, Alanis said.

The man, whose name was not released, was shot in the torso, Alanis said. He was taken to Christus Spohn Hospital Memorial, where he later died.

Twitter: @CallerNatalia

OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTINGS

Below are other shootings involving Corpus Christi police since 2009:

May 9, 2009: Sylvester Villasana, of Sinton, was shot and killed by an officer in a vacant lot on the corner of Port and Dillon avenues after leading police on a high-speed car chase and foot pursuit. Police said Villasana was holding a cellphone in one hand and an open folding knife in the other.

June 19, 2009: Carlene Burlison was shot by officers after leading police on a brief pursuit from a home in the 3300 block of Jamaica Drive. Burlison got out of a vehicle and aimed a gun at officers, who shot Burlison in the hand and upper shoulder.

July 25, 2011: Bryan Egolf was shot and killed by officers outside a convenience store in Flour Bluff after holding a cashier at gunpoint and threatening officers. Police later discovered Egolf was holding a BB gun. The death was ruled justified.

Dec. 10, 2012: Daniel Christopher Scott was shot and killed by officers outside his home in the 1100 block of Salem Drive. Scott called 911 to report feeling threatened by his neighbors, was armed and had barricaded himself inside. Crisis negotiators spent hours trying to communicate with Scott, who opened fire on officers.

Dec. 24, 2013: Michael Rosales was shot and killed by officers after receiving multiple calls about a domestic disturbance. Rosales exited a house on the 4100 block of Herndon Street with a handgun in each hand and fired at officers after being instructed to drop his weapons.

Feb. 17, 2014: Brian Robles, 30, was shot multiple times by three officers and one Portland officer after a car chase. Police say he carjacked a motorist on the 500 block of Hancock Avenue, fired shots at North Beach then led police on a chase into Portland. No officers were injured. Robles survived and has been charged with several counts of attempted capital murder and aggravated robbery.

March 20, 2014: Travis Cody Magill, 23, was shot in the chest and leg during a shootout with several officers. Police say he shot at two officers in a neighborhood near the Corpus Christi Country Club and tried to get away in a police vehicle. Two officers were injured. Magill survived and has been charged with two counts of attempted capital murder and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle.

Nov. 9, 2014: A police officer shot Daniel Cavanaugh, 37, after responding to a warehouse in the 2000 block of Saratoga Boulevard for a disturbance. When officers arrived they heard a woman's screams coming from the locked warehouse, police said. During a news conference on the incident Assistant Chief Mike Markle said Cavanaugh opened the door to the warehouse and was seen reaching for a gun from a holster. Cavanaugh was asked to drop the weapon and when he did not comply an officer shot him twice. He recovered and was taken into custody on suspicion of aggravated assault against a public servant, a first-degree felony.

Feb. 15, 2015: Police said Josue Hernandez, 33, exchanged gunfire with an officer after police responded to multiple complaints of shots fired in the 4900 block of Dody Street. According to police, Hernandez ignored commands to drop his weapon and raised the weapon toward officers. No officers were injured. A grand jury in May indicted Hernandez on suspicion of attempted capital murder.

April 5, 2015: Aaron Granberry, 35, was shot by officers about 12:30 a.m. in the 4200 block of Santa Fe Drive after an armed robbery two hours earlier in the 1700 block of Robin Drive. Officers saw a vehicle matching the victim's description and initiated a traffic stop. Police said Granberry fled before stopping at Santa Fe and Robert drives and fleeing on foot. During the foot chase, police said Granberry pointed a handgun at officers. Officers returned fire, hitting Granberry several times. Granberry was arrested on suspicion of attempted capital murder of a peace officer, among other charges. The officers were placed on administrative leave during an investigation and later returned to full duty.

May 4, 2015: Three officers shot a 21-year-old man while serving a warrant in the 3800 block of Brookside Drive. Ray Mancillas locked himself in a bedroom before appearing and point a handgun at the officers, police said. Police ordered Mancillas to put the gun down. When he refused, officers shot him multiple times, according to police. Mancillas was transported to Christus Spohn Hospital Memorial in critical condition. A grand jury indicted Mancillas on three charges of aggravated assault on a public servant and one charge of unlawful possession of a firearm by a felon.

Oct. 30, 2015: Two officers were involved in a shooting in the 6300 block of St. Denis Street that injured Marcus Escobar, 21. Police said Escobar waved a handgun at Senior Officer Chance Durbin and Officer Donna Gilliam, who were responding to a disturbance call at about 1 p.m. The officers were cleared after an internal investigation and returned to work in early November. Escobar has been charged with two counts of attempted capital murder.