Claudette Riley

CRILEY@NEWS-LEADER.COM

A 23-year-old man with a lengthy criminal history was shot and killed by a Springfield police officer late Wednesday while allegedly trying to take the officer's gun.

A news release authorized by Police Chief Paul Williams stated the man was identified as Magnum Edgar Phillips, of Springfield. The name was released Thursday morning after police notified his next of kin.

At 9 p.m. Wednesday, Springfield Police Officer Kolby Helms responded to a possible domestic disturbance at the Hillcrest Mobile Home Park, 2260 N. Golden Ave., Lot 78. The park is located just south of Kearney Street.

Police said Helms made contact with Phillips, who was reportedly armed with a knife, in a bedroom of the mobile home. Helms attempted to negotiate with Phillips but, according to police, the man refused to comply with commends to drop the knife.

The release states Phillips then approached Helms with the knife and attempted to take the officer's handgun. Phillips was shot when the officer's gun was fired during the ensuring struggle and the man died as a result of his injuries, police said.

Police spokeswoman Lisa Cox told the News-Leader that Helms was the only officer on scene until a shot was fired. No additional details were expected to be released Thursday.

A neighbor, Arleen Perryman, lives right next door to the home where the shooting happened. The two mobile homes are less than 20 feet apart.

Perryman, 79, has lived in the mobile home park since the mid-1990s and she met Amanda Yocum, Phillips' girlfriend, a few years ago. She said Yocum and Phillips had been together for roughly a year.

"He was a nice kid, her and him both," she said.

Perryman said the couple often helped her carry in groceries. She said they also removed snow from her porch and would run to the grocery store for her if her vehicle wasn't running.

She told the News-Leader she'd heard the couple argue in the past but didn't hear anything Wednesday night because she was busy making pumpkin pies for the Thanksgiving holiday. She said she learned about the shooting at 12:30 p.m., when an officer knocked on her door.

Perryman said she looked outside and the entire area, including her mobile home, was blocked off with yellow crime tape. She said there were police officers throughout the park, including one — with flashing lights — right outside Yokum's bedroom.

"We were surrounded by cops," she said. "...We were dumbfounded. We didn't know what was going on."

Perryman said she spoke with Yokum by phone following the incident, during the overnight hours and again early Thursday. Perryman said she was told the couple was arguing Wednesday because Phillips was supposed to go to an anger management class.

"She was all upset. She said Magnum got shot," she said. "I was just stunned."

The News-Leader spoke briefly with Yokum's mom, who lives in the same mobile home park and confirmed the couple had been dating for roughly a year. She declined to provide additional details.

A review of online court records, confirmed by police, show Phillips had a lengthy criminal history that included convictions for unlawful use of a weapon, domestic assault, burglary, drug possession. Phillips was on parole at the time of the incident.

A Facebook page for Magnum "Mag" Phillips stated he was originally from California but, at some point, moved to the Springfield area. The page stated he graduated from Kickapoo High School in 2009.

Helms has been placed on paid administrative leave, per department policy, while the SPD conducts the investigation into the shooting. The total pay listed for Helms in 2014, the most recent year available, was $30,095.

According to a newsletter from the police department, Helms was listed as a new hire in February 2014.

The release stated that once the investigation is complete, the results of that investigation will be submitted to the Greene County Prosecuting Attorney for review.