Jon Swedien

JSWEDIEN@NEWS-LEADER.COM

Stone County sheriff’s deputies shot a man outside his home in Lampe on Friday morning after he reportedly pointed a gun at them, according to a department news release.

Deputies arrived at the home of Rick Gullickson, 58, about 1 a.m. in response to a 911 call from his wife, who said her husband was shooting at her, the release said. After deputies arrived on scene, Gullickson refused to come out of his home and a three-hour standoff ensued, according to the release.

About 4 a.m., Gullickson came out onto the front porch of the home with a handgun, which he raised and pointed at the deputies, the release said. Deputies shot Gullickson and he was pronounced dead on the way to a local hospital, the release said.

The release doesn’t say how many deputies shot Gullickson but did say two deputies have been put on paid administrative leave. The Missouri Highway Patrol investigative unit was called in to investigate the shooting, the release said.

The incident was the third officer-involved shooting in southwest Missouri over the past three days.

On Wednesday, law enforcement officers shot and killed a 37-year-old woman in Ozark.

The woman, Somer Speer, was shot inside her business, 417 Bail Bonds, after exchanging gunfire with police at the end of a standoff, the News-Leader has reported. Police were trying to apprehend Speer because she reportedly shot at bail bondsmen from another company. Those bail bondsmen were reportedly trying to pick her up because she had violated the conditions of her bail.

Also on Wednesday, a Springfield police officer shot and killed a man who attempted to wrestle his handgun away, according to police. The officer, Kolby Helms, had responded to a domestic violence call at the Hillcrest Mobile Home Park where he reportedly found 23-year-old Magnum Phillips armed with a knife, police said. Phillips was unwilling to drop his knife and eventually attempted to take Helm’s firearm, which led to the deadly shooting, according to police.