Paradise >> A woman was killed late Wednesday night when the vehicle she was in rolled over on Pearson Road near Black Olive Drive, and a man was shot by a police officer as he exited the vehicle, Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey said.

The man, Andrew Nicholas Thomas, 26, is in critical condition at Enloe Medical Center in Chico, but is expected to survive, according to Ramsey.

According to Ramsey, just before midnight a Paradise police officer saw a Toyota 4Runner leave a bar on the Skyway.

“It left without headlights on at excessive speed, south on Skyway and turned east on Pearson Road,” he said. “As the officer tried to catch the car, it passed Black Olive Drive and it hit the median and flipped.”

Ramsey said as the officer began to investigate the scene, he found that Darien Rayne Ehorn, 23, had been ejected and was lying in front of the car, which was on its side with the driver side up.

“(Thomas) was coming up through the driver-side window,” Ramsey said. “The officer un-holstered his weapon and fired one shot, and the man went back down.”

Ramsey didn’t address the shooting beyond that, noting the Butte County Officer Involved Protocol Team was activated and the incident is being investigated. He said they are assuming the bullet hit Thomas, but that hasn’t been verified.

Ramsey said the officer was not involved in a car chase, but was simply trying to catch up to the speeding vehicle.

“It’s doubtful the driver ever saw the officer’s red lights,” he said.

While investigators believe alcohol was a factor in the accident and believe Thomas was driving, Ramsey said is still unclear who was driving.

“Both of them appear to have been heavily drinking,” he said, adding investigators had not yet spoken to Thomas.

Ramsey said they are reviewing dashcam video.

In addition to the Butte County Officer Involved Protocol Team, the state Department of Justice’s Crime Scene Investigation Team and the California Highway Patrol’s Major Accident Investigation Team were activated. Ramsey said his office’s drone was also used to map the scene.

Pearson Road was blocked off at Black Olive Drive and Scottwood Road until about 12:30 p.m. Thursday as the CHP worked the scene. The 4Runner, with Oregon plates, was pointed westbound in the eastbound lanes, surrounded by debris. The front driver-side wheel had been ripped off by the crash.

The officer’s name has not been released. He has been placed on administrative leave, according to Ramsey, and the District Attorney’s Office and Paradise Police Department will jointly decide when he returns to duty.