Police have shot dead a man after he attacked an officer with a meat cleaver - leaving a gaping four-inch wound in his head.

Tuan Huong, 25, is said to have pretended to have been stranded in his car during a snowstorm in Aurora, Colorado, to get the police's attention.

When a police officer tried to help, he attacked the officer from behind, got into the police car and drove off around 3.45am Monday.

Huong did not respond to repeated commands to put his hands up, say police, and he was shot dead after officers saw an unknown object in his hand.

WARNING: GRAPHIC PHOTO BELOW

Scroll down for video

The eight-inch cleaver said to have been used by Tuan Huong when he attacked the unnamed officer

The unnamed officer received a horrific four-inch head wound, left, inflicted by Tuan Huong, 25 (right), who was shot dead by police after stealing the officer's police car and not obeying police commands

'This was an unprovoked attack and frankly I feel comfortable saying this was an attempt murder on my officer,' Aurora Police Chief Nicholas Metz said.

The deadly encounter with began when a police officer saw Huong in a car stalled on a ramp to Interstate 225.

The policeman stopped to help but as he was returning to his car, Huong is thought to have attacked him from behind with the cleaver, leaving a four-inch gash on his head.

Police say that the blow was so forceful that the handle and blade of the weapon were separated.

Authorities say that the force of the blow that struck the officer broke the cleaver blade (left) off from the handle (right)

Despite his horrific injury, the officer was able to radio for help after he was struck and said, 'Get out! 316: They took my car!'

Inside the stolen car was the officer's shotgun, say police.

Other patrol cars chased the stolen police vehicle at 65mph through three inches of snow before one rammed it and made it stop.

Aurora police spokesman Lt. Scott Turep said: 'The suspect got out of the vehicle and he was ordered numerous times to give up, to stop, put his hands up. He did not comply with those orders and at that time our officer did fire at the suspect.'

Huong is said to have had an object in his hand during the confrontation, but this has not yet been identified.

Residents who live nearby told KDVR that they heard eight shots ring out. A police investigation into the shooting is ongoing.