GREEN BAY - Attorneys representing the widow of police shooting victim Michael L. Funk said Neenah police officers Craig Hoffer and Robert Ross "unjustifiably leaped to the conclusion" that Funk was a police ambusher and not a hostage.

Joseph Ranney, a member of the legal team for Theresa Mason-Funk, said in court documents that the officers "failed to follow proper police procedures designed to protect hostages from being harmed."

"Officers must presume that persons in hostage situations are hostages or innocent bystanders unless available information reliably indicates that they are suspects or 'bad guys,'" Ranney wrote. "Hoffer and Ross did the exact opposite: they presumed, without basis, that Michael was a 'bad guy' undeserving of protection."

Mason-Funk filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Hoffer, Ross and the city of Neenah for the 2015 killing of her husband. Hoffer and Ross shot Funk without warning after he escaped out the back of Eagle Nation Cycles, where he and two others were being held hostage by accused gunman Brian T. Flatoff in a dispute over a motorcycle.

Video of the shooting shows Funk tumbled out the building while Flatoff shot at him from inside. Funk rose to his feet, drew his handgun, looked back toward the building and then turned to run and was shot by Hoffer and Ross.

RELATED: Neenah police officer says he shot Funk as he 'was facing away from me'

FULL COVERAGE: Eagle Nation Cycles shooting

Mason-Funk's lawsuit alleges the officers used "unnecessary, unreasonable and excessive" force in killing her husband. She seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.

The defendants filed a motion last month to dismiss the case, and Mason-Funk filed her response Friday, requesting it be denied.

Judge William Griesbach will hear oral arguments on the motion at 9:30 a.m. Sept. 13 in U.S. District Court in Green Bay. The case is scheduled for an eight-day jury trial starting Dec. 4.

The defendants argued the actions of Hoffer and Ross weren't unreasonable or excessive because the officers believed police had been ambushed when they encountered gunfire while trying to enter Eagle Nation Cycles to rescue the hostages. Hoffer was hit in the helmet but wasn't seriously injured.

Hoffer said in a court deposition that he concluded it was an ambush because the people inside weren't screaming for help, were spread out and were "not getting down on the ground" as ordered by police.

Ranney said Hoffer's claim is "directly controverted by the video evidence."

"All three hostages immediately complied with officers’ commands and laid on the floor," Ranney wrote.

Mason-Funk's legal team also contested the officers' statements that they feared for their lives when they saw Funk with a gun in his hand. Hoffer said he fired when "the gun came up in front of (Funk) as he was turning" toward police.

Ranney said that's not what a squad car video shows. He said Funk was turning toward a side alley perpendicular to police with his pistol lowered when he was shot. He said Funk "had no way of knowing where police were."

"Michael never shot at anyone, never pointed a gun at anyone, and at the time Michael was shot, no lives were in immediate danger," Ranney said.

About four minutes after the shooting, police had an armored truck available to rescue Funk from where he fell in an alley, Ranney said, but they left him lie on the pavement for 30 minutes.

As Funk lay in the alley, Sgt. Angie Eichmann asked Hoffer whether she should check on the victim. "(Expletive) that," Hoffer responded. "I could care less right now if he sits there and dies."

The Wisconsin Department of Justice determined that Hoffer and Ross mistakenly, but reasonably, thought Funk was the armed hostage-taker and an imminent threat and therefore weren't criminally responsible for his death.

The criminal case against Flatoff is pending in Winnebago County Circuit Court.

Duke Behnke: 920-993-7176, or dbehnke@postcrescent.com; on Twitter @DukeBehnke