St. Louis County police killed a woman Saturday after she shot a neighbor three times, barricaded herself in her house, and then fired at officers.

The woman, Sheilah Huck, 61, of the 6600 block of Foothills Court, had been outside her north St. Louis County home acting irrationally before shooting the other woman, who lives on the same street and had been loading her two children into a car, police said.

Police have not identified the 35-year-old neighbor. She is expected to survive, police say.

St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar gave this account at a news conference Saturday night:

About noon Saturday, officers from the North County Precinct got a call of a shooting in the 6600 block of Foothills Court, where one woman had shot another.

The victim, shot twice in the head and once in the torso, was taken to a hospital. The shooter barricaded herself inside her home in the same block of Foothills Court.

Before the shooting, neighbors reported that the woman was saying alarming and irrational things.

One man closed his garage door and called 911, Belmar said. And a youth warned the woman who ended up being shot that “there’s a woman out here acting crazy,” Belmar said, and urged her to contact police.

Within moments, Belmar said, the suspect shot the victim by her mailbox.

“It’s probably safe to say at this point she was in some sort of state of mental crisis,” Belmar said. “We have no basis to believe she had any sort of relationship with any of the people she encountered. You take a look at that and wonder what would set her off.”

After officers who arrived at the home were unable to get the woman to respond, the county Tactical Operations Unit was called to the scene.

Several hours later, about 4:20 p.m., members of the tactical unit entered the house through the front door.

As police entered, the woman fired three rounds at police with a handgun from 8 to 10 feet away, Belmar said. Two officers returned fire, killing her. It was not clear how many rounds the officers fired. No officers were injured.

The two officers who fired their weapons had 16 and nine years of experience, according to police. Both officers have been placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation, as according to department protocol.

Belmar told reporters he didn’t have the suspect’s name. He did not release the name of the victim, who was able to give police her account of what happened at the hospital. “We do think she is going to survive,” Belmar said.

“Obviously these are always tragic events,” Belmar said. “I would say in this case, however, our thoughts and prayers go out to the shooting victim who was shot by the suspect.”