Photos: Jaime Alexander Gutierrez, Obed Isau Zavala and Colten Price Marcellus (deceased) were involved in an alleged home invasion robbery.

Irving, Texas, December 5, 2015 – The Irving Police Department is currently investigating an officer involved shooting that occurred on Saturday, Dec. 5, at approximately 4:40 a.m. in the 600 block of Jeff Court. Officers were in the area attempting to locate two suspects in connection with a nearby home invasion robbery. When officers confronted the suspects, one suspect fired multiple shots at officers from a semi-automatic handgun. Three officers returned fire, striking and killing one suspect.

The incident began at approximately 1:40 a.m. when officers responded to a home in the 700 block of Jeff Court. Someone inside had called 911 to report a home invasion robbery. Officers arrived and saw two suspects running from the home but upon seeing the officers, they retreated back inside. Shortly thereafter, the victims came out of the house saying all three suspects had run out the back door.

Officers began an extensive search of the area including the assistance of a Texas Department of Public Safety helicopter crew.

At approximately 3:20 a.m., officers located one suspect and took him into custody. He is identified as 26- year-old Jaime Alexander Gutierrez. At approximately 4:40 a.m., officers located the remaining two suspects in a backyard in the 600 block of Jeff Court. One suspect, armed with a handgun, opened fire on officers. Officers returned fire striking and killing the suspect. The deceased suspect has been identified as 24-year-old Colten Price Marcellus. His identification was confirmed by the Dallas County Medical Examiner’s Office.

The third suspect fled to a nearby home in the 600 block of W. Sixth Street and concealed himself underneath the back porch. He was taken into custody at approximately 7:16 a.m. He has been identified as 26-year-old Obed Isau Zavala.

The three robbery victims were unharmed during the incident. The three officers were unharmed but are on administrative leave pending an internal affairs investigation. The two suspects will be arraigned on charges of Aggravated Robbery at which time bond will be set. The investigations into the robbery and the shooting are ongoing.

Source: Irving Police Department