Travis Nevelle Page died largely because of his own health problems and not because of the actions of four Winston-Salem police officers, Forsyth County District Attorney Jim O’Neill said Monday.

Page, 31, of 2900 New Walkertown Road, died Dec. 9 after he had been arrested by four police officers. The city released body-camera footage from three of the police officers involved in the case — Cpl. Robert Fenimore and Officers Christopher Doub, Austin Conrad and Jacob Tuttle, who was a trainee and did not have a body camera.

The Ministers Conference of Winston-Salem and Vicinity as well as city officials had asked after Page’s death that the footage be released as soon as possible. O’Neill had refused, saying it was a pending case. The city Monday also released 911 calls, including one that had previously not been released.

Dr. Anna McDonald, a Forsyth County medical examiner, said Page died from an irregular heartbeat due to a hypertensive enlarged heart (the medical term is cardiac dysrhythmia due to hypertensive cardiomegaly) in the setting of physical restraint. Just before Page was placed in custody, he had run, then tripped and fell into a ditch.

McDonald said the manner of death could be natural, homicide, suicide or undetermined.

“In this particular case, you cannot parse out how much of his death was due to natural causes, how much is due to exertion from running and falling, and how much is due to physical restraint so therefore, it has been determined an undetermined manner of death,” McDonald said.

Chief Barry Rountree of the Winston-Salem Police Department said the officers will remain on administrative duty until he has a chance to review the internal investigation. He said the officers will return to full duty within the next week.

The case became high-profile in light of the number of unarmed black men and women who had been killed by police officers over the past two years, including Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., Eric Garner in New York and Tamir Rice in Cleveland, Ohio.

Incident started after report of gunshots

On Dec. 9, Winston-Salem police got a report that a man had fired a gun in the parking lot of the Family Dollar store on Old Rural Hall Road, O’Neill said.

One witness told police that he saw four to five people in the parking lot and that two men pulled out guns. Witnesses said the man who fired a gun was a large black man with dreadlocks. Police said the description matched Page.

When Winston-Salem police arrived, they found Page walking down Stowe Street near the intersection of Old Walkertown Road.

Conrad, Fenimore and Tuttle were handling a report about a runaway at a house at the intersection of Old Walkertown Road and Stowe Street at the same time that police received the report about the incident at Family Dollar. When Conrad and Fenimore got the call, they went out of the house. Fenimore saw Page and they approached him, asking him to show his hands and kneel down on the ground.

Body camera footage from Conrad shows Page appearing ready to comply. Then Page turned and ran across the street toward Old Walkertown Road. Page tripped and fell into a ditch.

O’Neill said Conrad was on Page’s left side and Fenimore was on the right. They tried to handcuff Page, but Page refused to allow his hands to be placed behind his back. At one point, Page grabbed Fenimore’s fingers and tried to bend them back. He also tried to get up on his hands and knees, O’Neill said.

Fenimore used pepper spray, but McDonald said the pepper spray didn’t get in Page’s face. Doub, who was on an unrelated call, came to assist Fenimore, Conrad and Tuttle.

After they got the handcuffs on, the officers searched his pants and found 2.6 grams of cocaine, a stolen gun and cash, O’Neill said. Then they turned him over and found that he was unresponsive. Doub, thinking that Page might be overdosing on drugs, administered Narcan to Page’s right thigh. Nothing happened.

Winston-Salem Det. Edward King came to the scene and did two to three sternum rubs and started administering CPR to Page. Officers also called Forsyth EMS. Arriving paramedics continued to administer CPR on Page and then transported him to Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center, where he later died.

Page had host of health problems

By all accounts, Page was not a healthy man.

McDonald said Page was morbidly obese and had an enlarged heart. In fact, his heart should have been half the size that it was. Page also had a large left ventricle. She said having an enlarged heart makes a person more prone to getting irregular heartbeats. And when EMS hooked Page up to an EKG machine, he did have an irregular heartbeat.

Page also had a fatty and unusually large liver, an indication both of his obesity and chronic alcohol use. Page had a blood alcohol level of 0.19 percent. The legal limit is 0.08 percent.

Page did not have petichia in his eyes, which might indicate that he was choked. He had no brain or spinal injuries, she said. Page had superficial injuries — a scrape on his head and some bleeding in his shoulders. He also had some internal bleeding near his groin and an abrasion on his left knee that was consistent with him falling into the ditch, McDonald said.

Page had no illegal drugs in his system. Shireka Hayes, Page’s girlfriend, had said police had told her Page had ingested drugs. SBI Special Agent in Charge Scott Williams said there was no evidence of that.

Ida Marie Page and Hayes had said previously that Page had a host of health issues, including high blood pressure, gout and bronchitis. He also had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, they said.

O’Neill said he and McDonald discussed the findings with Ida Marie Page earlier Monday. Ida Page and Hayes could not be reached for comment Monday.