UPDATE: 12/10/2015 4:30 PM

A broken home.

"I feel sad and I feel lonesome."

Finally shattered to pieces Thursday on St. Paul Road in Grayson County.

"Me standing between them is the only reason he hadn't killed her yet."

Bonnie and Devon Higdon said 66 year old Chris Higdon had too much too drink Wednesday, and became violent.

"I wish he was alive still, I really do," said Bonnie.

"I can't disagree with that, but I'm glad he can't threaten and hurt people any more," added Devon.

Devon is Chris' adopted son. He's been living with Bonnie and her husband Chris since he was 3 years old. He said Thursday was Bonnie's birthday and he was out buying her a gift.

In the meantime, Bonnie said Chris became irate for a reason she couldn't figure out and eventually ended up with a gun in his hand, pointed straight at her.

"He threatened me and shot at me. Then he decided he was going to go out and shoot at the cops."

Their living room wall is filled with pictures, now accompanied by shattered glass and bullet holes, shots Bonnie Higdon said barely missed her.

The Higdon family said when the Grayson County Sheriff arrived at their home, Chris ended up in the driveway. They also said he was the one who shot at police first.

"When the cops got here, he shot at the one up that way. Then the one that came up this way shot him," recalled Bonnie with a cigarette in her left hand.

As WBKO first reported yesterday, Grayson County Sheriff Norman Chaffins is the one who shot and killed Higdon, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

"He may be back to work in a week. He may come back to work in two weeks or three weeks. However long, when he feels like he's ready he'll come back."

Major Corey Knochel also responded to the Higdon house with Chaffins. He said one day later, Chaffins is doing the best he can.

"It's not easy. The aftermath is not easy. It's emotional. It's a struggle. I know he's struggling with it. He's going to take it day by day. As his friend and his co-worker I hate to see him or anyone else go through that."

A day ending with forced action, ending with regret.

"I regret that my father's last act was one of cowardice and violence. I wish he'd went out like a man instead of in the yard in his boxers trying to kill somebody," said Devon Higdon.

Kentucky State Police said Chaffins shot and hit Chris Higdon three times Wednesday at 2:00 PM. Higdon was pronounced dead at the scene. Their investigation is still open.

UPDATE: 12/10/2015 11:55 a.m.

More details were divulged Thursday in a press release from KSP Post 4.

It stated that around 2:00 p.m. EDST, Grayson Co. Sheriff Norman Chaffins and Grayson Co. S.O. Major Corey Knochel responded to a report of a domestic disturbance with a shot fired on St. Paul Rd. in Leitchfield.

When they arrived they were met in the driveway by 66-year-old Chris E. Higdon coming toward them with a firearm.

Sheriff Chaffins fired his weapon 3 times striking Higdon, who was later pronounced dead at the scene by the Grayson Co. Coroner.

The incident is still being investigated by KSP Post 4.

UPDATE: 12/9/15 9:52 p.m.

The Grayson County Sheriff's department was called to a domestic disturbance involving a hand gun, on St. Paul Road this afternoon.

Kentucky State Police said the gun was fired at least once inside the home.

"When the deputies arrived, they were met at the end of the driveway by the suspect, who was armed, with a hand gun. That suspect then turned on one of the deputies, and the deputy fired on him after he refused to put the firearm down," KSP Lt. Jeremy Thompson said.

The man was pronounced dead at the scene.

"It's a traumatic situation, its an unfortunate situation and he's probably rattled like any other human being would be that had to take a human life," Grayson County Sheriff Chief Deputy Corey Knochel said.

Police say thankfully, officer involved shootings don't happen often in Leitchfield.

"Nobody wants to do that. We don't want to do that, we are not in this job to do that, but unfortunately in this case, it just came to that," Knochel added.

The names of the man fatally shot by police and the officer involved will officially be released Thursday afternoon.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

One man is dead in Grayson County after a domestic dispute.

According to Kentucky State Police, around 2:00 EDST two Sheriff’s units from the Grayson Co Sheriff’s Department responded to a report of a domestic disturbance with a shot fired at a residence at 4099 Saint Paul Rd.

When police arrived, a man was coming toward them with a firearm.

Sources said Sheriff Chaffins then shot the man, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

We have a reporter on the way and will update this story as it develops.