LYNCHBURG — The man whose death is at the center of a Virginia State Police criminal investigation was stunned by Tasers three times and pepper-sprayed twice by law enforcement after a high-speed pursuit through multiple jurisdictions, according to documents obtained Friday by The (Lynchburg) News & Advance.

James Paul Bertuglia, 40, of Chatham, was declared brain dead by Lynchburg General Hospital doctors and taken off life support Dec. 14, hospital medical records stated. He was admitted early Dec. 8 after a run-in with authorities.

State police spokeswoman Corinne Geller has said the agency is conducting a criminal investigation of Bertuglia’s death “following his arrest” at the request of the Amherst commonwealth’s attorney.

So far, prosecutors and police involved in the case have refused to discuss basic facts of the incident because of the state police investigation.

The series of events that led to Bertuglia’s hospital admission is revealed in two search warrants filed in his case.

The incident began late Dec. 7, when Nelson County sheriff’s deputies pursued Bertuglia into Amherst County, according to a search-warrant affidavit filed Dec. 15 in Amherst County Circuit Court. Amherst police Officer Brandon Payne requested the warrant, which allowed him to seize Bertuglia’s medical records in reference to driving under the influence and assaulting a police officer.

Payne said in the affidavit that he joined Nelson deputies near Temperance Elementary School and was asked to take over the pursuit.

Hitting speeds upwards of 60 mph, Payne said in the affidavit, he followed Bertuglia’s truck as it plowed through a locked gate at the driveway of 2508 Patrick Henry Highway. The truck swerved several times in a field, eventually spinning and hitting Payne’s vehicle head-on.

Payne and deputies from Amherst and Nelson counties boxed in the truck, exited their vehicles and instructed Bertuglia to raise his hands, according to the affidavit. One officer used a baton to break the truck’s driver-side window.

“The driver of the vehicle began shouting that he was sorry but would not comply with raising his hands, and continued to attempt to accelerate the vehicle,” Payne said in the affidavit.

After hearing another officer’s Taser deploy and misfire, Payne said he drew his Taser and deployed a probe that hit Bertuglia’s chest and stomach area.

“The driver appeared to not have been phased by the Taser deployment at all and pulled one of the probes from my cartridge out and threw it back at me,” Payne said.

He got into the truck and drive-stunned — or directly shocked — Bertuglia, who was swinging his fists, the affidavit said. Payne then pepper-sprayed Bertuglia’s face twice.

Payne said in the affidavit that he pulled Bertuglia out of the truck and onto the ground, at which point two sergeants and two deputies joined him in trying to roll Bertuglia over and handcuff him.

“The driver continued to resist and was drive-stunned by a Nelson deputy again in an attempt to gain control of his hands,” Payne said.

Officers eventually handcuffed Bertuglia and shackled his legs. Payne said he heard Amherst sheriff’s Sgt. Templeton ask dispatchers for a medic unit while Payne walked back to his vehicle to check his hand, which had been injured in the scuffle.

Payne said in the affidavit that he walked back to Bertuglia, who had stopped fighting and was lying on his side and that a medic unit arrived “shortly after.”

Hospital records stated Bertuglia received CPR at the scene. Multiple entries in his medical records said Bertuglia was unresponsive for about 25 minutes before his heart started beating again.

He never regained consciousness.

After Bertuglia’s death, state police seized 1,071 pages of his hospital records, according to a search warrant return filed Dec. 22 in Lynchburg Circuit Court. The warrant was issued in relation to eluding police and resisting arrest.

The state police probe came at the request of Amherst Commonwealth’s Attorney Lyle Carver and Nelson Commonwealth’s Attorney Anthony Martin, Carver confirmed this week. He said the move was part of standard procedure and not because of any suspected criminal conduct by law enforcement.

They also requested a special prosecutor be appointed in the case should there be any resulting criminal proceedings.

Amherst Police Chief Robert Kimbrel has said he sent a letter Dec. 14 to Virginia State Police Superintendent Col. W. Steven Flaherty requesting an investigation, though he had no concerns about law or policy violations by his officers.

Kimbrel said his department halted its investigation of the incident when the state police probe began.

“It’s an unfortunate situation all the way around,” he said.

Eleanor Roy reports for The (Lynchburg) News & Advance.