Derek Stokes

Derek Stokes, shown in the backseat of a Metroparks Rangers patrol car at the time prosecutors say he opened fire on a Metroparks ranger. He was shot dead moments later.

(Cuyahoga County Prosecutor)

CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The two Cleveland Metroparks rangers who shot and killed a 33-year-old man at the Justice Center were justified in using deadly force, Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Timothy J. McGinty said Monday.

McGinty cleared rangers Chelsea McLellan and Kyle Schultz of wrongdoing in the Dec. 8, 2015 death of Derek Stokes, he said in a letter released to media.

Stokes - who was under arrest at the time - brandished a gun and fired at the rangers, who returned fire, officials said in December.

"Any officer situated in a similar position, and faced with similar facts, would have acted in a similar fashion to end the deadly threat posed by Mr. Stokes," McGinty wrote in a letter to Metroparks Chief Ranger Dan Veloski.

The rangers arrested Stokes at Lakefront Reservation after finding a bag containing white powder in his car. The powder was later determined to be a mix of cocaine and heroin, investigators said.



Previously: Man who died after reportedly shooting Cleveland Metropark ranger identified

Stokes managed to conceal a handgun inside his boot before he was arrested and placed in a police cruiser, according to an investigative report. The cruiser's backseat camera showed Stokes shifting the gun out of the boot and tucking it behind his back while in transit.

During the ride, Stokes told McLellan he was cold. The ranger opened the partition separating the front of the car from the back to let warm air into the back seat. Stokes pulled the gun and aimed it at McLellan's head as the cruiser was entering the Justice Center garage.

McClellan slammed on the breaks just before Stokes pulled the trigger, pushing his body forward and throwing off his aim at the same time. Stokes shot McLellan in the upper right portion of her bulletproof vest, missing her head by inches.

Diving from her moving car, McClellan and Schultz, who was following behind, fired 47 rounds at Stokes. Three shots hit Stokes' side and neck, eventually killing him.

Two communications representatives with Cleveland Metroparks could not be reached Monday evening.

Read the prosecutor's full report on the shooting below, or click here to view on a mobile device.