ST. LOUIS • A 27-year-old man died Tuesday evening after a struggle with officers who tried to prevent him from killing himself in a holdover cell, Police Chief Sam Dotson said.

The chief held a 10:45 p.m. press conference to provide the details surrounding the death of the man, who had been taken into custody in the afternoon for trespassing and was being held at the Central Patrol Division headquarters on Jefferson Avenue.

Dotson said that about 6:30 p.m. a worker alerted officers after seeing the man taking off his sweatpants and turning them into a noose, which the man tied to the bars of the holdover cell.

Three officers rushed into the cell, Dotson said, and tried to subdue the man with handcuffs and leg restraints. At one point, six to eight officers were part of the struggle. The man resisted the officers and at one point hit his head on the concrete bench in the 7 foot-by-9 foot cell.

As the struggle stopped, the officers noticed the man was having trouble breathing and that his pulse had stopped, Dotson said. The officers administered CPR and used a defibrillator that was at the station.

Emergency workers had been called as soon as the incident began and arrived within minutes, he said. They took over and transported the man to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Dotson said the incident “lasted a couple of minutes, not long at all.” There is no video of the incident because the security cameras at the station only monitor; they do not record, he said. He said he has already asked the city for cameras that record.

The man was not identified beyond his age and his race, which was white. He may have been homeless. An autopsy was scheduled for Wednesday.

Dotson said that once the man was in custody, police learned that he was on probation for drug charges and that there were warrants for his arrest on drug and traffic charges from Wentzville.

He said the call that led to the man’s arrest on Tuesday was for a prowler in the 3200 block of Missouri Avenue. The man was found to be trespassing in a condemned building.

The death will be investigated by the medical examiner’s officer and the police department’s Force Investigation Unit, which was set up last year to look at deaths involving officers, Dotson said.

The chief said the officers involved were not placed on leave.