The Jackson Sun

After reviewing results of a TBI investigation, District Attorney General Garry Brown has determined Milan police officers were justified in fatally shooting a man in December.

Michael David Thomason, 56, was killed in the shooting on Dec. 14.

Brown previously ruled that a Nov. 13 shooting in which Michael Bartkiewicz was killed by law enforcement officers in Gibson County was also justified.

VIDEO: 911 audio released in November shooting

In a May 17 letter to a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation agent about the December shooting, Brown wrote, "It appears from a review of the evidence that the officers' actions were reasonable and justified under the circumstances."

The TBI investigated the shooting at Brown's request.

According to the TBI investigative report, Gibson County sheriff's deputies and Milan police were searching for Thomason, who was wanted on charges including first-degree murder, aggravated rape and aggravated kidnapping. Thomason was accused of fatally shooting Kenneth Vailes and committing the other crimes in Humboldt on Dec. 13.

On Dec. 14, officers searched the home of Thomason's stepmother on State Route 187 near Milan and found a car that had been stolen from the house where Vailes was killed.

Officers fatally shoot Gibson Co. homicide suspect

After searching Thomason's stepmother's house, Milan police officers broke open the door of a locked storage building behind the house, according to the report. Officers found Thomason in a corner of the store building. He was "covered, except for his head, with some type of cloth," Brown wrote.

"Officers immediately ordered Mr. Thomason to 'show us your hands' as one officer removed the cloth covering from Mr. Thomason," Brown wrote. "Upon removal of the covering, officers could see that Mr. Thomason was holding a pistol. Mr. Thomason then raised his hand, pointing the pistol at officers, at which time they fired multiple shots at Mr. Thomason which resulted in his death. The pistol possessed by Mr. Thomason was the same pistol used in the homicide the previous day."

Brown concluded that, "Officers had probable cause to believe that Mr. Thomason was seeking to avoid apprehension for a murder and other related charges that involved the use of a firearm. Upon encountering Mr. Thomason hiding in a shed, they observed that he was in possession of a firearm which he immediately pointed in their direction. Officers reasonably perceived this to be a threat of death or serious bodily injury and discharged their weapons in defense of themselves and their fellow officers. Therefore, I do not believe this matter warrants further action."

Sheriff releases 911 calls in officer-involved shooting