GASTON COUNTY, NC (WBTV) - The names of three Dallas police officers and a man killed during a police chase and officer-involved shooting were released Thursday.

Ronnie Dubose Carr, 51, was pronounced dead after police say he led them on a brief chase in Gaston County, struck a patrol car and was shot by Sergeant Paul Albergine when he drove toward him.

The incident began on Tuesday just before noon when Dallas police received a call about two people trying to pass fraudulent checks at the Ingles grocery store on W. Trade Street. One officer went into the store where two men, later identified as Odell Dewayne Lloyd Jr and Eric Darnell White, were trying to pass fraudulent checks.

Police said an Ingles employee recognized Lloyd from previous fraudulent checks in November. They said White was in a separate check-out line, and both men were attempting to pass fraudulent checks. They were arrested and charged with felonious check fraud.

A second officer outside the store saw a gray Mercury Grand Marquis previously involved in similar cases. When that officer tried to stop the Mercury, the driver, later identified Carr, took off.

Carr then led officers on a brief chase before crashing near Hardin Road and Highway 321.

As three officers - later identified as Sergeant Albergine, Captain Robert Scott and Officer Matt Scott - approached the Mercury, they said Carr struck a patrol vehicle then drove toward Albergine.

Investigators say Albergine then fired his weapon at Carr. No other officers reported fired.

Carr then continued north on Hwy 321 for about one mile before crashing again. This time when officers approached, he was unresponsive.

Officers attempted to render aid, but Carr was pronounced dead at the scene.

A background search on Carr revealed that he's had at least 17 known addresses in two states and several North Carolina county's and a long string of arrests going back to 1989 that include passing bad checks, forgery, and processing stolen goods.

Ben Carter never met Ronnie Carr, but opened a body and paint shop in North Charlotte 13 years ago in place where Carr once owned an automotive business.

"The IRS was looking for him and I've got mail that comes here with his name on it and I just put it back in the box," Carter said.

Carr leased the building from Buddy Moore's late father years ago.

"He rented that building from my dad. He left. He owed dad money on rent, but I don't remember how much," Moore told WBTV. "It was supposed to be a body shop or something in there."

Officials said that all three officers were placed on administrative leave.

The NC State Bureau of Investigation is handling the investigation.

PREVIOUS ARTICLE: One dead after officer involved in shooting, chase in Gaston County

Copyright 2015 WBTV. All rights reserved.