GILROY — A Gilroy police officer who shot and killed an unarmed 19-year-old gang member while responding to a domestic violence call last year was justified in his use of force, according to prosecutors.

The encounter occurred Dec. 14 around 7 p.m. when Officer Adam Moon went to an apartment complex on the 6800 block of Filbro Drive to investigate a report of a man beating a woman. One caller described the suspect as a possible gang member.

Moon decided to wait for backup before walking up the stairs to the second-floor unit where the altercation was taking place, but the suspect, later identified as Hector Alvarez, exited and started walking down the stairs in an “aggressive” manner, according to a 32-page report released by the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office on Thursday.

Deputy District Attorney Steven Dal Porto wrote in the report that Moon twice told Alvarez to stop and put his hands up. Instead, Alvarez reached into his waistband two times and charged at the officer, who opened fire with his Glock 22 as he ran backward.

“His eyes narrowed and he brought his chin down closer to his chest and … in that moment, I got the feeling this guy is going to try and kill me or hurt me,” Moon told investigators.

Alvarez, who was struck twice in the chest and once in the left forearm, was pronounced dead at the scene. A fourth bullet hit an unoccupied apartment. No weapon was found on Alvarez.

Moon lawfully killed Alvarez, according to the report.

“Officer Moon was left with no other reasonable option, under the totality of the circumstances, but to fire his weapon at Alvarez until Alvarez no longer posed a threat to him,” Dal Porto wrote.

The District Attorney’s Office investigates all fatal law enforcement encounters in the county to determine if the lethal force was legal. By law, officers are allowed to use deadly force when they or others are faced with imminent danger, according to prosecutors.

Alvarez was a South San Jose Norteno gang member and had an extensive criminal history, including arrests for burglary, robbery and domestic violence, according to the report.

At the time of his death, Alvarez had a pending domestic violence case involving the woman at the apartment, who had one child with him and was pregnant with another. Dal Porto wrote in the report that the woman had a no-contact restraining order against Alvarez, but she had agreed to let him borrow her car the night that he was shot by Moon.

Moon was wearing a body-mounted camera during the encounter, but it was not turned on. According to the report, Moon had planned to activate the device once other officers arrived to assist him with the call.

Contact Jason Green at 408-920-5006. Follow him at Twitter.com/JGreenMercNews.