Brittany Horn

The News Journal

A Milford man who was shocked with a stun gun by state police on Dec. 20 after brandishing a gun died Saturday, prompting a death investigation by the department and the state Attorney General's Office.

Lionel Waters, 35, died at the Hospice Center of Delaware, Sgt. Richard Bratz said. He has been hospitalized since the police encounter, when an officer deployed his divisionally issued stun gun after Waters refused to put down his weapon. Waters went into cardiac arrest after multiple troopers struggled to take him into police custody, Bratz said.

Police on scene at the home in the 600 block of Milford-Harrington Highway began administering CPR until paramedics arrived, Bratz said. Waters was transported to Milford Memorial Hospital and listed in critical, but stable, condition, he said.

Police said in late December that alcohol may have been a factor in Waters' condition.

The trooper who deployed his stun gun is a six-year veteran at the department and has been placed on administrative duties, Bratz said.

The Delaware Division of Forensic Science conducted an autopsy on Waters, but Bratz said the results are pending.

State police were attempting to conduct a warrant for 36-year-old Richard Wilson, of Milford, on Dec. 20, at the request of Dover police, Bratz said. Wilson was wanted for violating a protection from abuse order, he said.

When they responded to the home along Milford-Harrington Highway, they came into contact with Waters, who was unknown to police at the time, Bratz said. Waters would not give police any information as to who he was or allow troopers inside, Bratz said. When police began to leave the property, he said, the man opened the door and told troopers he had a weapon.

State police told Waters to drop what appeared to be a firearm repeatedly, but Waters didn't comply, becoming "agitated, aggressive and actively resisted arrest," Bratz said.

A trooper then used his Taser and was still unable to take him into custody. Other troopers aided him in taking Waters into custody, when he then became unresponsive, Bratz said.

Police said previously that charges were pending against Waters, but never disclosed what exactly those charges may be. No troopers were injured during the encounter.

Contact Brittany Horn at (302) 324-2771 or bhorn@delawareonline.com. Follow her on Twitter at @brittanyhorn.