Elizabeth Murray

Free Press Staff Writer

An armed Burlington man killed by two police officers during a drug raid in December had vowed to never go back to jail and promised to "go out shooting" if the authorities tried to arrest him, Chittenden County State's Attorney T.J. Donovan said Thursday in ruling the fatal shooting justified.

Kenneth Stephens, 56, a convicted felon with a long record, told an inmate during his last stint in jail words to the effect of, "If they come to get me, they are going to have to kill me," Donovan said.

Several hours later, investigators released police video of the only fatal law-enforcement shooting in Vermont in 2015. In the two-minute video, masked officers are seen lining up outside Stephens' Elmwood Avenue apartment, trying repeatedly to break down the front door, then scrambling for cover as gunfire breaks out.

Stephens's vow not to be taken alive came to light during a Vermont State Police investigation into the Dec. 22 shooting, the prosecutor said.

Donovan and Vermont Attorney General Bill Sorrell on Thursday separately cleared the officers who killed Stephens — Drug Enforcement Administration Agent Tim Hoffmann and state police Detective Trooper Matthew Cannon — of any wrongdoing.

"Trooper Cannon and Agent Hoffmann were reasonable in their belief that they and other officers were in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury when they fired at Kenneth Stephens," Sorrell said in a statement.

Sixteen local, state and federal law-enforcement officers led by the DEA were involved in carrying out the no-knock search warrant as part of an investigation into Stephens' alleged drug dealing. Prosecutors and law enforcement representatives attended a news conference Thursday to discuss the case. One absence was notable: the DEA, which has declined to answer questions about the planning and execution of the raid pending an internal investigation.​

Hoffmann and Cannon fired 13 times at Stephens after the convict aimed a muzzleloader rifle at the team of agents. Donovan said Cannon, who fired 10 of the 13 shots, "feared for his own life as well as the lives of the other officers."

While police used a battering ram to bash through the front door, Stephens yelled, "Who wants to die?" according to Donovan.

Donovan said officers hit the door at least 12 times before forcing their way inside. The two officers fired all 13 shots two seconds of entering the apartment.

Seven shots hit Stephens. The other six hit the walls of his apartment, and three rounds penetrated the walls and left the building, Donovan said. All three of Hoffman's shots hit Stephens, Donovan said.

Authorities determined later that Stephens' rifle was loaded, but there was no primer in the muzzleloader, leaving the weapon incapable of firing. Donovan said the primer was located within reach of where Stephens had been sitting before police entered.

Toxicology results showed Stephens had cocaine, heroin and a Valium-like substance in his system at the time of the incident, according to the state Medical Examiner's Office.

Body camera footage

A Burlington police officer was wearing a body camera during the raid, and the recording captured the frantic moments around 7 p.m. that day in the city's Old North End neighborhood. The officer was near the rear of a line of police and enver entered Stephens' home, city Police Chief Brandon del Pozo has said.

The Vermont State Police in early January denied a public records request by the Burlington Free Press for a copy of the video. Thursday, state police, noting the investigation was complete, released a two-minute segment of the footage.

Police can be seen lining up in an alley between the house and a funeral home next door, then moving forward toward the front door. Several cars pass by on Elmwood Avenue as officers move into position. Banging noises are heard when the battering ram hits the door. Several people yell "Police!" and "Don't move!"

A shattering sound is heard, almost immediately followed by screaming. The words "Who wants to die?" are heard immediately before gunshots ring out.

"Back up, back up!" someone yells.

Over the officer's radio, a person can be heard asking if rescue should be sent to the scene, and whether the person shot was an "officer or suspect."

Chief del Pozo said earlier this week that at least three bullets left the home and passed near one of his department's officers standing in an adjacent alley.

Two of the bullets continued into a neighboring home, one of which lodged in a painting and the other nearly striking a man who was sitting on his couch, Donovan said.

Agent Hoffmann fired three shots, while Trooper Cannon fired 10 from their semiautomatic rifles, said Donovan, the prosecutor. Cannon opened fire first, shooting his state-police-issued LWRC International M6 5.56 NATO rifle, which was loaded with DEA-issued .223 Remington cartridges. Hoffman shot a Rock River Arms LAR-15 .223 Remington rifle using .223 caliber Remington Winchester cartridges.

Both guns had a capacity of 30 rounds, said Vermont State Police Capt. J.P. Sinclair. Donovan said the guns have an effective shooting range of 600 yards.

Stephens' muzzleloader was a .50 caliber Connecticut Valley Arms Kodiak Magnum with an effective shooting range of 150-200 yards. The possession of muzzleloaders by felons is permitted under federal law, Donovan said. Stephens had obtained the gun at least two months before to his death through a private arrangement.

After-action review

No DEA representative attended Thursday's news conference, leaving U.S. Attorney for Vermont Eric Miller to answer questions for them. Miller said the DEA is in the midst of an "after-action review" regarding tactics during the raid.

"One of the most important inputs into this review are the findings of the state's attorney today that this was, in fact, legally a justified shooting," Miller said.

Police commission seeks answers after DEA raid

DEA spokesman Tim Desmond said the agency skipped Thursday's news conference because of the internal review. There is no timetable, but Desmond said he anticipates the DEA will issue a statement when the inquiry concludes.

Desmond said the DEA was pleased with the prosecutors' decision that the shooting was justified. He then repeated verbatim a statement the agency issued on New Year's Eve promising a "thorough and comprehensive" review.

Burlington Mayor Miro Weinberger has called for a federal investigation into the way the drug raid was planned and executed.

State's Attorney Donovan said Thursday that federal agents had considered luring Stephens from his home before arresting him. However, raid planners decided to enter Stephens' home after learning he had drugs in the home and was by himself.

In the apartment, federal agents found $2,600 worth of heroin, an unspecified amount of crack cocaine and marijuana and various drug-related items, court documents show.

Burlington police Chief del Pozo and Vermont State Police Maj. Glenn Hall both said Thursday they planned to follow up with the DEA once its review is complete. Del Pozo said he is meeting with the DEA in early February.

Stephens had multiple convictions for drugs and burglary and had spent 15 years in prison starting in the 1990s for illegally possessing a firearm. That charge arose from an incident in which Stephens shot another man in the head.

Donovan said he met with Stephens' father before the news conference to share the conclusions of his investigation.

"While he expressed his concerns to me, he has also asked for privacy during this time," Donovan said. "He did want me to relay on behalf of the Stephens family that Ken Stephens was a son, was a friend to many, was loved by many, and will be missed."

Warrant: Police had body camera in fatal raid

Contact Elizabeth Murray at 651-4835 or emurray@freepressmedia.com. Follow her on Twitter at www.twitter.com/LizMurraySMC.