After Officer Sam Hodge warns Charles Reynolds to stop it, Hodge is shot and falls backwards. (Photo: Ludlow Police Department)

Kentucky State Police Sgt. Danny Caudill reported that Officer Hodge pulled over Reynolds' maroon, 1994 GMC van, in the parking lot of Family Dollar and Riverside Marketplaces on Elm Street just. (Photo: FOX19 NOW/Ben Katko)

LUDLOW, KY (FOX19) - Newly released body camera video shows a Northern Kentucky officer-involved shooting that left one dead last December.

The footage shows the encounter between Ludlow Police Officer Sam Hodge and Charles Reynolds on Dec. 23.

Kentucky State Police Sgt. Danny Caudill reported that Officer Hodge, a 20-year veteran, pulled over Reynolds' maroon, 1994 GMC van, in the parking lot of Family Dollar and Riverside Marketplaces on Elm Street. It's not clear why the traffic stop was conducted.

The video shows Reynolds getting out of his vehicle and not complying with Hodge's requests.

Hodge: "Turn around."

Reynolds: "No."

Hodge: "Don't put your hands where I can't see them. Move. Get your hand away from your waist."

Reynolds: "Get your hand away from yours."

Hodge: "I'm legally allowed to do this."

Reynolds: "So am I."

Hodge: "I'm allowed to search you for weapons, of Terry vs. Ohio, I'm allowed to do a pat down for weapons."

Hodge: "Stop it with your hands, stop it!"

After Hodge warns Reynolds to stop it, Hodge is shot and falls backwards.

Officer Hodge was struck in the shoulder and Reynolds was hit in the chest after the two exchanged gunfire, according to Sgt. Scott Lengle.

Both were taken to University of Cincinnati Medical Center.

Reynolds was later pronounced dead at UCMC, officials said.

A Ludlow man saw the exchange and jumped into action to help an officer after the shooting.

Megerle was honored by the Ludlow Police Department after he tied a tourniquet on the officer's arm and kicked the gun away from the suspect.

Hodge was released several days after.

Kenton County Prosecutor Rob Sanders cleared Hodge of any charges or wrongdoing the shooting on March 1.

Copyright 2016 WXIX. All rights reserved.