BROOKSVILLE — Authorities arrested a suspect Wednesday in the armed robbery of a Dollar General store after a day-long manhunt that followed a wild chase, a fatal shooting of a second suspect and an overnight search through dark woods.

Derek Stephen Kelley, 27, was taken by Hernando Sheriff's deputies without incident. Michael Hilber, 29, identified as his accomplice in the Tuesday robbery, was not so lucky. A pair of deputies shot and killed him as he tried to escape.

State troopers, Pasco sheriff's deputies, Florida Fish and Wildlife officials and Department of Corrections bloodhounds assisted Hernando deputies in the nearly 24-hour manhunt for Kelley. No law enforcement officials were injured.

"There was no fighting," said Hernando County sheriff's Lt. Anthony Piarulli, who was on the scene when deputies captured Kelley. "He pretty much knew his time was up and he was tired from being on the run throughout the night."

Investigators say the two men were involved in other crimes in the Tampa Bay area and in southeastern New Hampshire.

A man who resembles Hilber was caught on camera robbing a Subway restaurant in Sarasota on Monday. Video shows the man pulling what appeared to be a gun out of his waistband, Hernando County Sheriff Al Nienhuis said.

The two men were also believed to be involved in a police altercation in Deerfield, N.H., near their hometowns, on Dec. 2. Deerfield police officers, who were familiar with Kelley because he and another man were suspected burglarizing empty lake houses over the summer, spotted Kelley and Hilber in Kelley's vehicle and pulled them over, said Deerfield police Detective Lt. Dan Deyermond.

Both men had outstanding warrants. When officers approached to arrest them, Kelley punched the gas and dragged an officer who had tried to pull Kelley out of the vehicle, Deyermond said.

After the two got away, Deerfield authorities knew Kelley and Hilber were on their way to Florida. Authorities issued arrest warrants for Kelley on charges of felony escape, disobeying and resisting arrest.

"We were under the assumption they were going to come back," Deyermond said. "Clearly they didn't have money if they were robbing Dollar General."

The mayhem in Brooksville started Tuesday around 12:20 p.m. when deputies received a frantic 911 call. A woman said the Dollar General at 6336 Sherman Hills Blvd. in Ridge Manor West had been robbed, and that the man who did it had a gun.

Video surveillance footage from the store shows a man in a dark shirt, who authorities identified as Hilber, place a beverage on the counter. The video, which does not have audio, then shows the man reach into his waistband, though the quality of the video and the fact that he is partially obstructed by the store clerk makes it difficult to see what he was doing.

Keep up with Tampa Bay’s top headlines Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter We’ll deliver the latest news and information you need to know every morning. Loading... You’re all signed up! Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Explore all your options

The store clerk ultimately gave the cash register tray to Hilber, who emptied it and left. He got into a truck driven by Kelley, sheriff's officials said.

A store customer, 65-year-old Reggie Book, chased them in his car and managed to keep Kelley from getting onto northbound Interstate 75. With Kelley and Hilber boxed in, Book tried to remove the keys from their truck. But Kelley hit the gas, forcing his way into and past Book's 2007 Chevrolet Malibu and dragging Book, who was hanging onto the steering wheel, several hundred feet.

While he was being dragged, Book said, Hilber hit him in the forehead with an unknown object. Book ultimately let go and rolled into grass, uninjured except for a swollen forehead and some scrapes and bruises

The former volunteer firefighter and retired Vermont dairy farmer said he didn't know why he got so involved, but felt he needed to help.

"You knew the police wouldn't get there until he was long gone out of site," said Book, of Floral City. "If he had gotten onto the interstate, there's no way they would have known which way to look."

After Book let go, another man followed Kelley and Hilber as they meandered southwest toward Masaryktown, updating deputies on their whereabouts. The two men eventually abandoned their vehicle near Saturn and Endsley roads — a wooded area south of Brooksville — and split up on foot.

A police dog tracked Hilber about a quarter mile from the truck, where two deputies opened fire on him at about 1:45 p.m. Sheriff's Office spokesman Michael Terry said he didn't know if Hilber shot at deputies or if he pointed a gun at them.

"The only shots I know for sure that were fired were from our deputies," he said.

When Hilber went down, deputies found him with "what appeared to be a firearm," Terry said. He would not say it was a firearm that fired bullets, pellets or BBs, or if it was real or a toy.

The two deputies, Sgt. Matt Lillibridge a traffic deputy and a member of the tactical team who has been with the force 19 years, and Cpl. Stephen Miller, a 12-year veteran, were placed on routine administrative leave pending an investigation into the shooting by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

The exhaustive search for Kelley ended about 10 a.m. Wednesday when deputies found him along Rackley Road, not far from where Hilber was shot. He was charged with armed robbery with a firearm and was being held without bail at the Hernando County jail.

"These individuals made a mistake coming to Hernando County," Nienhuis said.

Contact Josh Solomon at (813) 909-4613 or jsolomon@tampabay.com. Follow @josh_solomon15.