Staff report

news@thenewsstar.com

No charges will be filed in relation to the officer-involved shooting death of a Monroe Man, according to a news release from the 5th Judicial District Attorney.

Schuylar Gunning was shot by deputies on Christmas Eve just south of Winnsboro on U.S. 425 in Franklin Parish.

Fifth Judicial District Attorney Mack Lancaster said Louisiana State Police conducted a thorough investigation that began the morning of the shooting and included interviewing more than 20 people; studying the crime scene; collecting evidence; documenting the scene; taking photographs and measurements; reviewing radio, telephone and desk log records; obtaining cellphone GPS coordinates; reviewing autopsy and toxicology reports; and obtaining and reviewing firearm and ballistic reports.

The investigation concluded March 2. The LSP report later was submitted to the Fifth District Attorney’s Office for review and a decision on charges.

State police continue investigation of Winnsboro officer-involved shooting

Lancaster reported that the investigative findings said Gunning left his parents' home in Baton Rouge unannounced in their white jeep between 7:03 a.m. and 7:44 a.m. Christmas Eve.

The incident started on U.S. 425 when a deputy was northbound and noticed a vehicle approaching southbound in the northbound lane at a high rate of speed, according to the initial report provided to The News-Star in January.

At that time, a funeral was being held for a 3-year-old boy who had drowned. The funeral had a number of visitors with vehicles parked on both shoulders of U.S. 425 with pedestrian traffic going to the funeral.

According to the report, Gunning continued through the area at a high rate of speed as a Franklin Parish sheriff's deputy attempted to catch up while alerting other police of the pursuit.

Gunning reportedly drove through several red lights and six intersections, all in the opposing lane of traffic at speeds of 80 mph or faster in 35 mph to 45 mph speed zones.

Gunning reportedly drove around a roadblock and through a ditch, where he continued to evade pursuit.

Police attempted to disable the vehicle with gunfire and shot out the tires, but he continued on his rims, according to the report..

Gunning reportedly struck two sheriff's vehicles at another roadblock, spun his vehicle around and headed toward deputies who were outside their vehicles, while attempting to re-enter traffic in the wrong direction.

As he drove toward the officers, they reportedly feared for their lives and opened fire, according to the initial report from state police.

Gunning was shot while inside the vehicle and died.

Gunning was owner of Monroe's Kingfish/Crawfish Junkie. He also was the creator of Spice Junkie, a Cajun seasoning, which he sold to underwrite the cost of opening a restaurant.

Burglary suspects hospitalized after wreck

Lancaster said he and his assistant district attorney were notified that morning immediately after the shooting incident. Further, that it is standard procedure for the investigation reports to be forwarded to his office for review.

Lancaster said after reviewing the report, interviewing witnesses and examining the scene with investigative officers, he determined there was no reason to call for a grand jury as it was reasonable for the officers involved in the shooting to believe that Gunning’s actions would have caused grave injury or death unless the officers had taken the actions they did.

“My assistant D.A., Will Barham, my investigator, Owen Rockett, and I met with the parents of Schuylar Gunning prior to this public announcement to inform them of my decision that no criminal charges will be filed," Lancaster said. "That family has my deepest sympathies in the loss of their son and brother. This was an unfortunate incident that cost a young man his life.

"Law enforcement officers are often forced to make split second decisions in tense, uncertain and rapidly progressing circumstances. The officers’ conduct must be judged from their prospective of what was occurring in those split seconds at the scene and not with hindsight. I do not see any probable cause to seek criminal charges against any of the officers involved and am thankful none of the officers nor any other members of the public were killed or injured.”

Man accused of battering wife at gas station