David Castellon

dcastell@visaliatimesdelta.com

A man shot Christmas Eve by a Porterville police officer investigating a domestic disturbance call reportedly told her she would have to shoot him as he advanced with a knife on his girlfriend.

Police say Officer Jennifer Rutledge, a member of the department for more than three years, shot Omar Ventura, 23, twice as he approached his girlfriend while brandishing a knife.

Man shot and killed by Porterville officer identified

A police report issued on Monday — which included the first public disclosure of the officer’s name — states that Ventura was gone by the time Rutledge arrived at the scene, but he returned on foot while she was talking to witnesses, and he brandished the knife and yelled profanities at his girlfriend.

She had called 911 shortly at 4:18 p.m. to report that she had and her mother had been assaulted by Ventura at the family’s home in the 200 Block North Larson Street and broke a window on a vehicle there.

Though Rutledge ordered Ventura to drop the knife, the man “continued yelling profanities and told the officer that she ‘would have to shoot him,’ ” the report continues.

“The officer continued ordering the suspect to stop, however, Ventura refused and raised the knife as he got closer to the victim,” who had fled to the front yard and tried to hide behind a trash can.

Fearing for the woman’s life, Rutledge fired two shots, both of which hit Ventura and downed him, the report states.

Ventura, of Porterville, was taken by ambulance to Sierra View Medical Center in Porterville, where he was pronounced dead.

Porterville police also reported on Monday that Ventura had extensive run-ins with law enforcement prior to his death, which included being a known gang member and incidents involving family disturbances, driving under the influence, felony assault, and resisting arrest.

Details of those incidents weren’t included with the police report, and officials didn’t speculate why Ventura reportedly refused to put down the knife with a police officer telling him to do so while pointing a gun at him.

Tulare County Sheriff’s detectives are investigating the shooting, while Porterville police are doing their own investigation to determine if Rutledge followed the department’s guidelines on using lethal force.

While that’s going on, she has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is common practice following and officer-involved shooting.