On Thursday, December 24, 2015 at 8:39 PM, Officer G. Sanchez and Officer O. Bazan were dispatched to an exposer/public lewdness call at 22223 N US 59 IB, a Comfort Inn Suites Hotel. Upon arrival, the officers observed a nude white male adult, later identified as Johnny Reeves, lying in bushes and mumbling incomprehensibly. Mr. Reeves was seen to be behaving in a manner consistent with a person who was intoxicated. Officers detained Mr. Reeves and, for his safety and the safety of the officers, placed him into handcuffs.

Mr. Reeves did not resist and no use of force was necessary to place him in the handcuffs. Officers

then contacted dispatch and requested emergency medical services to come to the scene and evaluate Mr. Reeves. While waiting for HFD to arrive, Mr. Reeves was lying on his side and continued mumbling incoherently. Shortly after HFD EMS arrived on scene, Mr. Reeves was placed on the HFD stretcher. Officer Bazan removed the handcuffs from Mr. Reeves, who had only been detained and was not under arrest.

After the handcuffs were removed, and while inside the ambulance, HFD personnel noted the man's condition appeared to deteriorate. Prior to the ambulance leaving the scene, ambulance personnel indicated to the Officer Bazan on scene that the patient appeared to be entering cardiac arrest. HFD personnel administered CPR on scene and Mr. Reeves' condition improved and his heartbeat returned. HFD personnel then transported Mr. Reeves to Kingwood Hospital.

After arriving at Kingwood Hospital, the patient was moved from the ambulance to an emergency room within the hospital under Medical Record Number CD 00505233. Mr. Reeves again suffered cardiac arrest and CPR was administered. Mr. Reeves then died at the hospital under

the care of Dr. Chou, and was pronounced dead by ER personnel at 10:21 PM. He did not appear to have any obvious injury or suffer any external trauma which caused his death.

Mr. Reeves tested positive for amphetamines at the hospital and his body temperature was 104 when he arrived at the hospital. Montgomery County took custody of the deceased under Medical Legal number 15-0530, and will perform a post-mortem examination. Mr. Reeves has a criminal history spanning from 1991 to 2012 which includes multiple assaults, family violence, theft, possession of a controlled substance, unlawful possession of a firearm by felon and failure to stop and give information.

A search of his criminal history shows he has been in the custody of TDCJ Huntsville. Mr. Reeves was not charged. According to Mr. Reeves' sister Cathy Martinez, Mr. Reeves was diagnosed Bipolar/Schizophrenic more than 10 years ago and did not take medication for his illness. Mr. Reeves' status as a known mental health consumer within HPD records is still pending.