Matt Mencarini

Lansing State Journal

LANSING — A prosecutor has cleared three Lansing police officers of any criminal wrongdoing in the fatal officer-involved shooting on Christmas Eve in Lansing.

Terrozza Griffin, 24, of Lansing was killed in the 5900 block of Selfridge Boulevard on the city's south side after setting fire to the home and twice firing a weapon at police, according to the prosecutor's 13-page report released this afternoon.

The Michigan State Police investigated the shooting. Calhoun County Prosecuting Attorney David Gilbert reviewed the investigation to determine whether the shooting was justified.

"I find this homicide completely justified," Gilbert wrote in his report. "The initial discharge of police firearms was certainly justified as it appears Mr. Griffin and the officers fired at the same time."

At least 22 Lansing officers were involved in the incident in some manner, according to Gilbert's report. Police said three who fired their weapons have been on administrative duty since late December.

Police will now start their internal investigation to determine if the officers followed all department procedures.

Gilbert cited other reports that indicated this incident wasn't the first hostage situation between Griffin and Lansing police. He added that toxicology reports indicated that Griffin had marijuana, cocaine and an opioid drug in his system.

"While no police officer looks forward to circumstances that might lead to a fatal outcome, I am pleased that Mr. Gilbert reached the conclusion that our officers' actions were justified in discharging their firearms in defense of their lives and others around them," Police Chief Mike Yankowski said in a statment.

Those three officers — Sgt. Kevin Schlagel, Officer Walter Kim and Officer Ryan Hackenberg — will return to regular duty and the department will soon begin its internal investigation, Lansing Police Public Information Director Robert Merritt said.

Police fired seven shots

Police were called to the home around 7:30 p.m. Dec. 24 for a report of a home invasion, police said, and Griffin was seen crawling through the window of a house. Police communicated with him for more than two hours using a public address system and telephone.

Officers first arrived on scene around 7:40 p.m. and took positions around the house, according to Gilbert's report. Police first made contact with Griffin through a cellphone. He told them he wasn't in the house but a woman was and she didn't want to leave, according to the report.

"No female was seen, but it was learned his girlfriend (or former girlfriend) lived in this house," Gilbert wrote. "The officer negotiating with Mr. Griffin indicates Mr. Griffin's emotions were 'going up and down.'"

A little after 9 p.m., officers reported seeing the lights in the house were turned off from the inside, according to the report. About 45 minutes after that, police reported that the "the suspect had talked through the door, telling them to find better hiding spots," Gilbert wrote.

Police saw Griffin light curtains on fire and smoke and flames were visible so police in tactical gear entered the home fearing for the life and welfare of the woman Griffin had said was inside, according to the report. Gilbert reported that police later determined no one else was in the house.

"As they approached a sliding glass door leading into the house, gunfire erupted from inside, striking the glass at head level to the officers," Gilbert wrote. "At least one officer was hit with flying glass. There appeared to be large bullet holes forming in the window."

Police retreated from the home and three were momentarily trapped on the porch by the line of fire, according to the report. Police took cover behind vehicles and there were reports of more gunshots from inside, according to the report.

Then Griffin was seen outside.

"Witnesses say he was wearing a hoodie with the hood up, wearing sunglasses smoking a cigarette with a a handgun in his right hand," Gilbert wrote, adding that officers ordered him to drop the handgun, "think about what he was doing" and that it "wasn't worth it."

A woman started to run up to Griffin, but he ordered her back, according to Gilbert's report. Griffin's attention, which had momentarily shifted to the woman, returned to the officers, according to the report.

"He raised his gun in the direction of officers, (an officer) heard a 'pop' from a low caliber round, and gunfire was returned by police officers," Gilbert wrote in the report.

Griffin was taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead. No officers were injured.

Gilbert's report indicates that three Lansing officers fired a total of seven shots, with four striking Griffin. He was shot in the head, twice in the chest and once in the upper back, according to the report.

A state police investigator previously told the State Journal there was a "good amount" of patrol vehicle video but there was no body camera footage of the incident.

Gilbert's report says there was no audio or video recorded by police body cameras or microphones. He added that no dashboard camera recordings were given to his office that showed the shooting or a view of the home.

"Our thoughts and prayers will continue for all of the families impacted by this tragic incident," Yankowski said in the statement. "The top priority of the Lansing Police Department is to prevent the loss of life and protect the public at all times. Sadly, in this case, it was impossible to accomplish both goals."

Three final gunshots

Former Ingham County Prosecuting Attorney Stuart Dunnings III had recused his office from the review because an employee in his office has a relationship with one of the Lansing police officers involved in the shooting, he said at the time.

Last month, an Ingham County judge sided with two of the officers involved in the shooting who had refused to answer Gilbert's questions as part of his review. Gilbert argued the officers were obstructing his review, but the judge ruled the officers properly invoked their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.

Gilbert's decision was released on the heels of two fatal officer-involved shootings — in Louisiana and Minnesota — which have drawn national attention and calls for U.S. Justice Department investigations and the fatal shooting of five police officers in Dallas during a protest of police brutality.

Contact Matt Mencarini at 517-267-1347 or mmencarini@lsj.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattMencarini.