BILLINGS -- Livingston police killed a man Saturday night after he threatened officers with a knife and attempts to subdue him with a TASER failed, said Police Chief Dale Johnston.

At about 7:40 p.m., Livingston police responded to a report of a man threatening employees at the Shopko Hometown at 100 Washington St., Johnson said.

He said in a later news release the officers were responding to a report of a male subject who was making threats that "someone was going to die" if the police were not called.

He said officers found the man outside of the store and he threatened them with a knife.

An attempt was made to subdue the suspect using a TASER, but the attempt was ineffective, Johnson said in the release.

The officer who approached the man started to back away and attempt to deescalate the situation. The man refused to comply with commands and ran at the officer with a knife. Officers employed deadly force.

Livingston Fire and Rescue responded to the scene but responders were unable to save the man's life.

The officers involved have been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated by the Gallatin County Sheriff's Office and Bozeman Police Department.

Johnson said he would identify the officers involved at a later date but did not know how long that would take.

Johnson said it's common for the police department to call in outside assistance on major investigations. The officers' use of deadly force was not the reason for handing off the investigation to other agencies.

He declined to release the man's identity, age or residency pending the notification of family members. He also withheld the time the shooting occurred and number of officers involved until the investigation advances.

On Sunday morning the Shopko was open for business. But a section of parking lot to the northeast of the building was taped off and a Gallatin County Sheriff's Office incident command vehicle was parked nearby. Several spots in the snow-covered pavement were marked with orange paint.