UPPER DARBY >> The spouse of the man shot and killed by police Tuesday night outside their home at the Bishop Hills Apartments, Secane, posted a message to friends and family on Facebook on Wednesday morning.

Shellie Siegel Hoyt Zollo, the widow of David Zollo, 54, expressed her sadness for the loss and gratitude to police an hour before an 11 a.m. press conference conducted by Police Superintendent Michael Chitwood.

Chitwood provided the name of the decedent, the three veteran officers involved, details of the shooting and read her post.

“The original call at 6:40 p.m. was from him, stating he was armed with a knife, was going to kill himself and was dangerous,” Chitwood said. “The officers confronted the male and he aggressively started towards them. (Officer) Michael Taylor fired the Tazer, striking him the chest, and he keeps on coming. He was ordered several times to drop the knife. The Tazer didn’t stop him. The officers were in fear of their life. The non-lethal force did not work. Taylor and (Officer) Steven O’Connor fired. Twelve shots were fired at the individual in the driveway right outside his residence (M building). He was killed by the officers. This is tragic.”

Chitwood did not know the number of fatal shots that struck Zollo but recovered the knife, described as an 8 to 10-inch folding knife.

Taylor, 32, is a four-year veteran, and O’Connor, 40, is a 13-year veteran.

The third officer who responded was Sean Kenny, 30, an eight-year veteran, who did not fire his service revolver.

All three have received department commendations during their employment.

“These are three outstanding officers who had to do what they had to do,” Chitwood said. “They felt very bad for what they had to do. He had a long history and I believe he wanted to die. Both Taylor and Kenny are part of the Crisis Intervention Training program. The officers involved will be debriefed and can talk to a psychologist. I will put them back to work as soon as possible. When you look at the whole scenario I truly believe this was a suicide by cop. All three feel really horrible for what happened.”

Chitwood met with Shellie Zollo the night of the shooting in his office.

“She talked about how bad he had been and for how long,” Chitwood said. “She was crying and said he’s been in and out of the hospital since 2004. We’ve been there nine times for calls since 2007, for aggressive behavior, either for threats of suicide, three missing person reports and a non-physical domestic violence report, all related to his illness.

“She told me she was sorry for what happened and I told her I was sorry it had to end like this. I hope she accepts my sincere condolence on the death of her husband.”

According to Chitwood, Zollo had mental health issues, was bipolar and had Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.

Chitwood read her brief post to reporters – “It is with a heavy and broken heart that I write this post. My husband of the last 15 1/2 years died last night. Many of you that know him knew that he struggled with mental health issues. He is finally free of all of the demons that have been plaguing him. Please pray for him and for our families as we come to grips with this. I would like to thank the Upper Darby police. Michael Chitwood and his officers went above and beyond to help us get through last night. They did what they had to in order to keep everyone safe.”

Capt. David Madonna is in charge of the investigation for the department with information turned over to the District Attorney’s office.