An ambulance arrives after police killed a man in a shooting at an apartment in Redding on Tuesday night.

SHARE

By Damon Arthur of the Redding Record Searchlight

Little has changed at 273 Boulder Creek Drive, Apartment A, since a Redding man was shot and killed there Jan. 5.

There are still bullet holes in the walls, doors and windows. Debris is still scattered around inside the apartment where Stephen John Bukwich lived and died.

Redding police were called to the apartment early in the evening because Bukwich reportedly had been acting erratically and firing a gun.

Police said after they arrived, officers attempted to get Bukwich to come out of his apartment peacefully. Apparently upset about President Obama and recent gun legislation, investigators said he went in and out of his apartment several times, yelling at officers.

When he finally opened the door and pointed a handgun at officers, they opened fire and killed him.

Apartment owner Sandra Downs said she doesn't fault police for opening fire on Bukwich, but she is unhappy the city is unwilling to pay for the damage done to the apartment when officers fired at Bukwich.

"If they have to destroy the building to that extent they should have to pay. It's not fair," said Downs who owns the apartments where the shootings occurred.

The city has agreed to pay $2,303 in damages from the police shooting caused to other units in the apartment complex, but has rejected claims for damages to the apartment Bukwich lived in, said Chris Carmona, the city's risk manager.

He said Bukwich was responsible for engaging in activity that caused the police to shoot him.

"To me as a taxpayer that makes sense because his actions are the ones that called for that type of response," Carmona said.

He said Downs had a contract that required Bukwich to keep the apartment in good shape. She also has recourse to get money to pay for repairs from his rental deposit and from Bukwich's estate.

Bukwich was receiving rental assistance from Northern Valley Catholic Social Service, and the rental contract was in the nonprofit agency's name. But Carmona said the city still isn't responsible for damages to the unit Bukwich lived in.

Claims for damage that occur during police calls are common, he said. If an officer has to kick down a door when called to a domestic violence situation the suspect in the case is responsible for damages, not the city or police, Carmona said.

Likewise, though, if police chase a suspect through a neighborhood and break a backyard fence, the city may pay for damages if the property owner had no relationship to the suspect, he said.

Downs said one estimate of repairs on the apartment unit came in at just under $12,000, but she will likely to pay for the repairs herself.

She said her insurance deductible is $5,000, but she didn't want to submit an insurance claim because it could cause her premiums to go up and make it more difficult to get insurance if the apartments are ever sold, she said.

In light of the damage done to nearby apartment units from stray bullets, Downs questioned why so many shots were fired. She said there were numerous bullet holes inside the apartment and kitchen appliances were damaged from gunshots.

There is also some disagreement which bullet holes were from shots fired by Buckwich and which were fired by police, she said.

Investigators have not said how many shots were fired at Buckwich, but witnesses to the shooting said it was likely dozens of rounds were fired. Downs said many of the shots fired went through Bukwich's apartment and hit units to the rear of his apartment and hit other, nearby buildings.

"The building is shot up. It kinda makes you nervous," Downs said.

Redding police said nine officers, armed with handguns and rifles, were involved in the shooting.

Shasta County sheriff's Sgt. Brian Jackson, whose office is conducting an investigation into the shooting, said Wednesday that investigators haven't determined how many shots were fired. He also declined to estimate the number of shots fired.

Redding police Lt. Pete Brindley declined to comment on his department's response to the shooting that night, citing the Sheriff's Office's ongoing investigation.

"I would defer to the Sheriff's Office," he said.