MONROE — An 18-year-old man died last night at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle after crashing a stolen car into a traffic-light pole in Monroe while trying to avoid police, authorities said.

The unidentified man suffered injuries to his head, chest, pelvis and legs, a hospital spokeswoman said.

According to police, a resident was driving through Sultan with his mother when he saw his girlfriend's car heading in the opposite direction. He called his girlfriend, who confirmed the car had been stolen from her house. He called police at 11:27 a.m., made a U-turn and began a pursuit.

A Sultan police officer joined the chase, and the 18-year-old, driving west on Highway 2, soon pulled over onto the shoulder. The Sultan man stopped, too. When the officer got out of his car and approached the driver, he sped off.

He traveled six miles into downtown Monroe. A Snohomish County sheriff's deputy threw a spike strip in front of the stolen car. The driver lost control and crashed sideways into a traffic-light pole on Main Street.

"We don't know if he was avoiding the spike strip or if he was trying to make a turn," State Patrol Trooper Lance Ramsay said.

Teachers reportedly warned colleague to stop relationship

EVERETT — A former Whatcom County teacher accused of having sex with a 16-year-old student allegedly carried on a romantic relationship with the girl for months, despite warnings from other teachers that their relationship appeared inappropriate, according to a court document.

According to a search-warrant affidavit, the girl told authorities earlier this month that she and Tom Sipsey, 35, had sexual contact for the first time in February, in the weight room at Ferndale High School.

Detectives interviewed her after the girl admitted to her mother and school officials that she had spent time with Sipsey in an Everett hotel room last month, the affidavit said. She later admitted they had sex at the hotel, according to the document.

The Ferndale School District began investigating rumors last month about Sipsey, who was the girl's chemistry teacher. The district eventually asked for and received his resignation, district officials said.

Teachers and other school officials had expressed concerns about the amount of time the teacher and student spent together, and one teacher said she warned Sipsey that he should "sever any ties" with the girl, according to the document.

Sipsey was arrested Wednesday and booked into the Snohomish County Jail on suspicion of first-degree sexual misconduct with a minor. He was released after posting $5,000 bail.