Two deputies and a Kelso patrolman fired 66 shots during the fatal Jan. 9 confrontation with David Jay Kent, who had fired up a chainsaw and chased after one of the officers and cut into a patrol vehicle, according to a memo the Cowlitz County Prosecutor released Monday.

The officers “attempted to do everything they could to apprehend” Kent before firing at him, Prosecutor Ryan Jurvakainen said.

Jurvakainen said there was no doubt the use of lethal force was justified. Jurvakainen said police escalated force only when they felt threatened and after they already had reason to arrest him for eluding police and cutting into Harris’ car.

Jurvakainen released the memo to explain his decision not to file charges against the officers, drawing on a 1,500-page investigative report complied by the Clark County Sheriff’s Office.

The investigation revealed that the officers fired 66 rounds, but not all of the rounds were fired directly at Kent. Jurvakainen said Kent had 14 gunshot-related wounds. However, some were possibly related to gunshot fragments and shrapnel from shots fired into the ground.

The memo was based almost entirely on interviews Clark County conducted with Cowlitz County sheriff’s deputies Brent Harris and Alexis Tonissen, Kelso patrolman Darrel Stair and a civilian passenger who was with Stair on a ride along. Very little of the shooting was captured on audio.

The shooting followed a high-speed chase that began in Longview at about 10 p.m. and ended well up Rose Valley Road.

According to the report, the pursuit began when Kent fled from an alleged hit and run with a telephone pole at the intersection of Beech Street and 21st Avenue in Longview.

With Longview police officers, sheriff’s deputies and Kelso officer in pursuit, Kent stopped his van in the deserted 8900 block of Rose Valley Road, according to the memo.

Kent stepped out of his van, fired up an 18-inch chainsaw and headed for Harris’ patrol car. Kent began cutting into the patrol car’s driver’s side front wheel well, tire and molding. Harris had already gotten out of the car.

“Deputy Harris states that when the suspect began chasing Deputy Tonissen, all he could think was that ‘he was going to kill her with the chainsaw, and I’ve got to stop him,’ ” the report reads. “‘At this point, she thought she was ‘gonna die’ and that he was gonna ‘kill us with that chainsaw.’ ”

“Deputy Harris stated he thought the suspect was going to kill either him or Deputy Tonissen,” Jurvakainen’s memo says. “Deputy Tonissen considered the chainsaw to be a deadly weapon at this point.”

Jurvakainen said Tonissen and Harris repeatedly called for Kent to put down the chainsaw, but Kent kept cutting into the car. Kent then charged at Tonissen, and both she and Harris deployed their stun guns, at which point Kent went down.

Kent got up again and grabbed the still-running chainsaw as Harris was walking toward Kent to arrest him. Kent then chased Tonissen with the chainsaw. According to the deputies, Kent did not speak or make any indication he was surrendering. Fearing that Kent would kill Tonissen, Harris drew his pistol and fired from the passenger side of Tonissen’s Crown Victoria.

Stair drove up to the scene and, shining a light on the driver’s side of Tonissen and Harris’ cars, he could see “a mass of activity ... with officers scrambling and the suspect swinging a chainsaw” as it revved between high and low speeds.

With stun gun wires still attached to him, Kent again charged at the officers. Stair drew his gun. Believing he and Tonissen’s lives were in danger, Stair shot off five to 10 rounds. Kent slowed down but didn’t fall, according to Jurvakainen’s memo.

Tonissen also fired her weapon before Kent went down. Harris shot some rounds into the dirt to kick up fragments to try to keep Kent from getting up, but Kent continued moving toward Tonissen’s car.

According to the civilian passenger in Stair’s car, Kent was still standing and ducking to avoid bullets, all the while revving his chainsaw. Kent then looked at Harris, who continued shooting at the silent Kent. Kent fell down behind Harris’ car, chainsaw by his side.

Kent was declared dead at the scene.

Jurvakainen said Kent’s family told Clark County investigators that Kent was schizophrenic but had stopped taking medications after his divorce a few years ago. Family members told investigators that Kent also had a history of alcohol and meth use.

However, whether Kent was intoxicated or high during the Jan. 9 shooting won’t be known until toxicology reports come back in several weeks.

“Just based upon the evidence, there’s no doubt that each of the officers were in fear for themselves and other officers,” Jurvakainen said Monday. “The biggest thing is they’re going through the whole spectrum of force and essentially being forced to use deadly force because commands and Tasering did not make him compliant.”

The decision was not an easy one, Jurvakainen said. He received the full report by early February and made his decision a week ago.

“This whole event lasted not very long. You can’t really Monday morning quarterback a situation like this, a situation that appeared to be very dramatic and volatile,” he said. “It’s an unfortunate situation for the family of Mr. Kent and the deputies (and officer) involved. For everyone involved, it’s difficult.”