Alan Paul Bartley, a 56-year-old white man, was shot and killed by police officers Jan. 11 in the 1700 block of San Fernando Road in San Fernando, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

Bartley was driving a car on Hubbard Avenue around noon when San Fernando police pulled behind him in their patrol car, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Victor Lewandowski.

When the traffic stopped at a stop light, Lewandowski said, Bartley put his car into reverse and crashed into the patrol car. He then drove away, heading south on Hubbard, with the officers in pursuit.

During the short chase, Bartley allegedly drove through a red light at Hubbard Avenue and San Fernando Road, hit another car, then a metal pole, where his car stopped.

The officers told investigators that they ordered Bartley out of the car, Lewandowski said. Instead, they said, Bartley allegedly reached around in the back of the car, where they feared he was reaching for a weapon.

Both officers fired, striking Bartley multiple times. He was pronounced dead at the scene at 12:07 p.m., according to coroner's records.

San Fernando Police Chief Anthony Vairo identified the officers as Brian Woodward, a patrol and training officer with seven years on the force, and Ernesto Esquivel, a patrol officer who has about eight months with the department.

Vairo said both officers are back to their regular duties. The shooting is under investigation by the sheriff's Homicide Bureau and the Los Angeles County district attorney's office, which looks at all police shootings.

The two people in the car struck by Bartley were taken to the hospital, Lewandowski said, where they were treated for various injuries, one for a punctured lung.

Between 1982 and 2011, Bartley served more than 24 years in California prisons for five robberies, two burglaries, grand theft auto and assault with a firearm, according to records from the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. He was last released from prison in October 2011, and discharged from parole in October 2014.

Bartley's name was not released until April 19, because the coroner's office had unsuccessfully been trying to find and notify next of kin, said Ed Winter, the coroner's assistant chief of investigations.

Bartley's body was released to the pastor of a church in Garden Grove, where he had once been employed. Bartley attended services at the church from the time he was released from prison until Jan. 3, eight days before he died, said Pastor Cheryl Raine.

Bartley also expanded a program at the church that provides showers, food and other assistance for homeless people, Raine said. The program serves more than 70 people a day, twice a week, Raine said.

"We call it a ministry of hospitality, and we have people whose whole lives have been redirected because of the program," she said. "This ministry has inspired other churches, and Alan made it, Alan created it."

Anyone with information is asked to call the Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau at (323) 890-5500. Those wishing to remain anonymous should call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477.

Contact the Homicide Report. Follow @latimeshomicide on Twitter.