HURST — Illinois State Police identified the man fatally wounded in a shooting in Hurst as 41-year-old Willie C. Holderfield, of De Soto.

Holderfield was shot by officers who had gone to the house at 111 Seba St. in Hurst, looking for a suspect wanted on a felony warrant for robbery of the Family Drug pharmacy in Carterville about a month ago. Police reported that Holderfield displayed a handgun, and the agents discharged their firearms, hitting Holderfield. He was taken to a local hospital, where he died, police reported.

Holderfield's brother, Kevin Jeralds of Bush, said he and his wife knew investigators were looking for Holderfield, as they had surrounded their house a few weeks ago looking for him.

He said his brother's health had started to fail and he did not have health insurance and was not able to pay for medications.

Jeralds said it was about six or seven months ago when he noticed a dramatic weight loss in Holderfield and asked him if he was using drugs heavily because he looked so frail. This look was in sharp contrast to the Holderfield who'd left prison three years ago, very muscle-bound. He had been incarcerated one other time for a robbery-related offense.

That's when he said Holderfield told him that he had pancreatic cancer and was dying from the disease. That, plus, his brother was still dealing with the death Sept. 4, 2014, of their father, Malcolm Holderfield.

"I think what pushed him over the edge was when we lost Dad (Malcolm Holderfield)," Jeralds said. "Ever since he passed away … (and with the diagnosis) … I think he just gave up."

"He did get addicted to pain pills because he was trying to alleviate the pain (from the cancer and injuries from a car crash in the 1990s)," Jeralds said ."He was always in a lot of pain."

"He’s a very kind person. Gentle, he was never violent with me … I mean, I don’t know what he did on his own, but he struggled, I mean, he had his demons and he struggled a lot and we tried to help him as much as I could, give him a place to eat, warm shoes, whatever he needed, clothes, tried to help him out as much as I could," he said.

"But he loved his kids, he loved his family,” he said.

In addition to Holderfield's children and stepchildren, his brother and sister-in-law, his survivors include two sisters, his wife, stepmother and nieces and nephews.

The incident is under investigation by the ISP Division of Internal Investigations. Once the investigation is completed, it will be forwarded to Williamson County State’s Attorney Brandon Zanotti for prosecutorial review.

According to a news release from the Illinois State Police, no additional comment or information will be released from either the Williamson County State’s Attorney’s Office or the ISP at this time.