SOUTHFIELD -- During a prostitution sting in January, law enforcement justifiably killed a suspected pimp and fugitive after he shot an FBI task force officer, the Oakland County Prosecutor's office ruled.

Without public announcement, the prosecutor's office issued its findings in a six-page, May 17 letter to state police, who investigated the death along with the FBI.

Rakeem O. Bentley, 24, during a struggle with several members of the FBI's Southeast Michigan Trafficking and Exploitation Crimes task force, nearly overpowered one of the officers involved in the sting, unholstering his gun and shooting him in the stomach, according to the summary, obtained via Freedom of Information Act request.

A bulletproof vest protected the officer.

Another member of the task force then shot Bentley at close range in the left side of his head, the report says.

Because all of the law enforcement officers involved were part of an undercover operation, state police say there is no audio, nor dash-cam footage of the shooting.

The Sting

The FBI task force, a mixture of federal agents, state troopers and police from various Detroit-area departments, set up at the Southfield Marriott on Jan. 27.

The North American International Auto Show, an international event that draws increased human trafficking and prostitution activity to Metro Detroit, was underway.

"Suspected female prostitutes were contacted and requested to come to the hotel," the report says. "Depending on what transpired, they, and those associated with them (their drivers, pimps, etc.), were arrested or detained."

One of the women contacted online by undercover agents arrived at the hotel in a 2005 Chrysler Pacifica and entered to meet the "john." She was accompanied by Bentley, who rode in the passenger seat, and a driver identified as Bentley's cousin.

The Arrest

While police handcuffed the woman inside the hotel, two undercover vehicles pulled up behind the Pacifica outside.

There were two state troopers, an FBI agent and a police officer from a local agency.

"At the scene of the stop, police lights of the task force vehicles were activated and the officers wore gear and badges that identified them as police," the prosecution summary says. "The officers exited their vehicles just as Bentley got out of the passenger side of the Pacifica."

Bentley asked an approaching officer why they were "messing" with him.

"By his words and movements, he appeared as if he was not willing to submit to a stop," said Oakland County Warrants Division Chief John R. Slevin, author of the summary.

Upon being asked, Bentley told police he had a gun in the vehicle. It would later be found in a locked safe. The key and a loaded magazine were found in his pocket.

A Struggle

Two officers reached for Bentley's hands.

"Bentley resisted," the summary says. "He was a large man, with his height listed at between 5-foot-8 and 6-foot (tall) and 272 pounds."

Police told Bentley he was being detained for "investigative purposes," but the struggle continued, and an officer warned the others that Bentley said he had a gun.

Bentley, after delivering a blow to one of the officer's groins, reached for the same officer's gun, but "his hand was pushed away by the officer," the report says.

Bentley and two of the officers fell to the concrete. One facing Bentley fell backwards into a puddle. Another held Bentley from behind, according to the report.

The report says Bentley began overpowering the officer beneath him, removing the gun from the task force member's holster and shooting him in the stomach.

An officer behind Bentley shouted: "shots fired," and the injured officer: "I'm hit."

A third agent unholstered his gun and approached.

"(He) fired a gunshot into the head of Bentley at close range, striking him several inches above the left ear," the warrant review says.

"Bentley stopped fighting."

After searching the vehicle, police found Bentley's firearm inside the safe along with $1,276 in cash.

MLive contacted the Southfield Marriott to ask whether surveillance cameras captured the incident, or if video was turned over to investigators.

"The FBI is charge of the investigation," is all the general manager would say. "They are the folks to talk to."

FBI spokeswoman Jill Washburn said: "The standard process of review is not entirely complete yet. As it is still considered a pending matter, we can not comment on it at the moment."

A Fugitive

Rakeem Bentley had reason to avoid arrest. He was on the run, a wanted fugitive in Louisville, Ky.

According to Louisville police records, Bentley participated in a home invasion, kidnapping and armed robbery of a 71-year-old woman on July 5, 2014.

Police said Bentley, with two accomplices, broke into the woman's home about 4 a.m. The trio went upstairs, restrained the elderly woman's hands and feet with zip-ties, rooted through possessions and stole $4,000 worth of mostly jewelry.

They left the woman bound and fled. She made it to her front porch and yelled for help.

Bentley's accomplices were arrested and charged. They named Bentley, but he'd already vanished. It's not clear exactly when he arrived in Michigan.