Eric Provost’s father called Orlando police on Monday night, concerned for his son’s well-being.

But when officers responded to the Courtney Landing condo complex to check on the 28-year-old man, it was Provost who was the perceived threat, Orlando police Chief John Mina said.

Provost walked out of one of the units armed with an airsoft gun that appeared to be a real firearm, Mina said.

Officers Tino Cruz and Sonja Saunders fired their weapons after Provost kept ignoring their orders to drop the gun, according to police.

Provost was struck by the officers’ gunfire and later pronounced dead at Florida Hospital East.

Officers responded around 7:30 p.m. after Provost’s father told dispatchers that his son “wasn’t acting right” and someone may be trying to break into his condo, which is located on Swissco Drive near Lee Vista Boulevard in southeast Orlando.

Mina said at a press briefing on Tuesday that Provost was contacted by 911 but told dispatchers police weren’t needed. Officers responded anyway to determine if he was safe.

“That was kind of disturbing that he knew officers were there and then stepped out of the apartment in that manner,” Mina said.

Neither officer was injured and both are on the customary paid administrative leave as the Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigates. Cruz has been with the department since 2012; Saunders was hired in 2010.

Mina said police are still trying to determine if Provost pointed the airsoft gun at officers and how many times the officers fired their weapons.

Mina added it makes no difference that the gun wasn’t real because his officers cannot hesitate when they are putting their own lives on the line.

“They look real and [it’s] impossible for our officers to determine that,” said Mina. “I want my officers to go home at the end of the day, and in this case they did.”

Shortly after hearing the gunfire from Monday’s confrontation, another resident of the complex went outside with a gun, police said. But the military veteran immediately complied with officers’ orders to drop the gun and was unharmed, police said.

“After firing on a suspect they believed had a firearm … to turn around and see someone else come out of an apartment with another firearm showed great restraint and composure,” Mina said.

Records show Provost’s first arrest was earlier this month. Orange County Sheriff’s deputies arrested him Jan. 8 on charges of felony grand theft connected to $88,000 stolen from an unlocked ATM, according to court records.

According to his arrest affidavit, he was making a normal transaction when he realized the ATM was unlocked and took several plastic cases containing cash.

Expert: Officer training worked

Lance LoRusso, a retired law-enforcement officer and author of the book “When Cops Kill: The Aftermath of a Critical Incident,” said the officers’ training worked well.

“What you are seeing is their training [applied] live and at full speed,” said LoRusso, an Atlanta-based attorney.

LoRusso said the public has started treating law enforcement with more hostility.

“There’s no doubt when you talk to officers and hear the way they are spoken to and the way people react to them,” he said.

State Sen. Geraldine Thompson, who is proposing a bill that would require law-enforcement agencies to notify FDLE within 24 hours of when an officer or deputy kills someone, said use of force “continues to be a problem throughout the nation, throughout the state, in many cities such as Orlando.”

While police agencies often request FDLE to investigate, it’s not required.

The shooting is a good example of why it is important for FDLE to investigate, she said.

“It is the kind of incident that I would want FDLE to investigate,” she said. “And in that incident … the victim turned and had a weapon. So the facts are what’s important. Bringing in FDLE would increase public confidence that we do have impartiality and there will be a thorough investigation and that is why we’re proposing the legislation.”

FDLE has opened four new investigations into officer-involved shootings this year, including two in Orlando, said spokeswoman Gretl Plessinger. The other two shootings were in Miami and Melbourne, she said.

Last year, OPD had five officer-involved shootings – two of them were fatal.

Plessinger said FDLE had no additional comment on its investigations.

Shootings ‘totally unrelated’

Monday’s incident the second officer-involved shooting in three days. A 17-year-old driving a stolen vehicle was shot by an Orlando police officer Saturday morning in the Pine Hills area after a traffic stop went awry.

Mina said the shootings happening within such a short time period is a coincidence.

“The two are totally unrelated,” said Mina. “One really has nothing to do with the other. That same day two officers in our nation were killed in the line of duty by gunfire. Officers just never know what they are going to get into out there.”

In Saturday’s shooting, two officers with the department’s Tactical Unit, which typically targets high-crime areas, attempted to stop a white Dodge Challenger at the North Lane Plaza shortly after midnight when the shooting happened, according to police.

When the officers got out of their unmarked police vehicle and attempted to make contact with the teen driver, he ignored them and accelerated forward toward one of them, police said. That’s when officer Jonathan Mills, a three-year veteran of the police department who became a tactical officer in January 2015, fired his weapon and struck the driver.

The teen, who is not being identified because he is a juvenile, was transported to an area hospital for treatment, police said.

He has been arrested and faces charges of aggravated assault on a law enforcement officer with a motor vehicle; grand theft auto; fleeing and eluding.

dharris@tribune.com or 407-420-5471

Staff writers Gray Rohrer contributed to this report