Chilton County Officer Shooting.jpg

District Attorney Randall Houston today showed how much the pellet gun brandished by Michael Robinson looked like a real gun.

(Chilton County District Attorney)

A man fatally shot by Chilton County lawmen over the weekend pointed at least two weapons at police, one of which was a pellet gun that was a replica of a real pistol, authorities said today.

The shooting happened on Saturday at 1855 County Road 701 in Chilton County. Chilton County District Attorney Randall Houston today said officers with the Chilton County Sheriff's Office and the Clanton Police Department were called to the home at 12:57 p.m. Saturday on a report of a domestic disturbance.

When officers arrived, 43-year-old Michael Lamar Robinson was brandishing either a sword or a machete, Houston said. As officers told him to drop that weapon, he pulled a pistol from his right side.

Houston said Robinson raised the gun three-quarters of the way to full point when the officers opened fire on him. "As he raised it toward the officers, they responded with deadly force,'' he said.

He didn't say how many officers fired, or how many times Robinson was struck. He was pronounced dead on the scene.

Houston said the pistol that Robinson pulled turned out to be a gas-powered pellet gun that was an exact replica of a Walther PPS. "Under stress at 25 to 35 feet, there's no way the officers could have known it was a pellet gun,'' he said. "We're not talking about a child's BB gun that is obvious. People have to be very careful when they pull one of those out."

The district attorney said the shooting was captured on police cameras, which will be released after the State Bureau of Investigation finishes its investigation and authorities have shown it to Robinson's family.

Based on that video, Houston said he has deemed the shooting justifiable. "The video shows how clearly this appears to be an actual weapon,'' he said. "It appears to be a justifiable use of deadly force."