J.D. Gallop

FLORIDA TODAY

Two people - a man and a woman - were killed in an overnight, two-vehicle traffic crash in central Brevard following an attempted traffic stop by Cocoa Police. Investigators said the driver, Quantarius Miller, 30, of Cocoa, had an extensive history of traffic infractions and was apparently driving with a suspended license when officers tried to pull the vehicle over.

The deadly accident happened about 1 a.m. Sunday, with Miller's vehicle striking a concrete wall and flipping over, at the intersection of Clearlake Road and Rosetine Street. Florida Highway Patrol investigators said Miller, and Michelle Jenkins, 27, of Palm Bay, were both traveling eastbound on Rosentine Street when a Cocoa police officer attempted to conduct a traffic stop. Both were killed in the crash minutes later, authorities say.

The unidentified officer turned on his emergency lights and followed the 2006 Nissan Altima owned by Jenkins but driven by Miller, investigators reported.

"We are looking into why they were attempting to stop him," said Kim Montes, spokeswoman for the Florida Highway Patrol. Cocoa Police spokeswoman Yvonne Martinez said Miller "was speeding."

"The officers attempted a traffic stop because he was driving erratically," Martinez said.

Investigators said Miller's license suspended in 2007.

Miller, who has an extensive arrest record of charges ranging from robbery to domestic battery and resisting arrest, was also involved in another traffic crash in Sept. 2014.

In that incident, investigators said Miller failed to stop during a police traffic stop and rode through the streets of Cocoa, running several stop signs before slamming into a home on the 1100 block of Myrtle Street.

The impact was so powerful that Miller's car knocked down a wall, tore loose several doors and broke a toilet that then spewed water throughout the home, investigators said. The home's owner was not at the residence at the time of the crash. Miller suffered a broken wrist in that incident and was photographed with his arm in a cast in a jail photo.

In the latest crash, reports show the Nissan then drove through a red light at the intersection and collided with a 2015 Toyota driven by Paul Turner, 64, of Cocoa. Investigators said Turner had the green light.

The Nissan then rolled into a concrete wall at a residence, then began to overturn, throwing Miller, who was not wearing a seat belt, against the wall. The car continued to flip over before striking a nearby mailbox.

Both Miller and his passenger, Jenkins, were killed in the crash. Turner and his passenger, Jean Abner, 58, of Cocoa, were both taken to Wuesthoff Hospital for treatment of their injuries. An investigation is ongoing.

Contact Gallop at 321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com or Twitter@JDGallop

One killed in crash near Sebastian Inlet