Thongsavanh Vandarack (LOUDON COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE)

SHARE

By Bob Fowler of the Knoxville News Sentinel

LENOIR CITY — Rather than face another long prison sentence, a wanted man with a violent past chose to let police kill him.

That's the finding of a Loudon County grand jury in the shooting death on Jan. 27 of Thongsavanh Vandarack, who died in a hail of gunfire from two Loudon County Sheriff's Department investigators who had come to serve a warrant charging him with the aggravated statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl.

The officers had gone to the Martel Estates East subdivision house north of Lenoir City and encountered Vandarack, who pulled what appeared to be a gun from his waistband. "Don't do it," one officer yelled before firing from about 10 to 15 feet away.

Lt. Patrick Upton, the department's criminal investigation supervisor, fired 11 times with his .40-caliber Glock while Sgt. Jason Smith fired six times with his weapon.

Hit by several gunshots, Vandarack died as he was being transported to an area hospital.

Police quickly learned that the presumed weapon Vandarack had brandished was actually an Airsoft pistol from which he had removed the toy's orange safety tip, "making it look like a real handgun," according to a Loudon County grand jury addendum.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation took statements from Vandarack's live-in girlfriend and her teenage child that "Vandarack did this as he knew he was the subject of the criminal investigation and that he was 'not going back to prison,' " according to the addendum.

Authorities soon after the shooting were characterizing it as a planned "suicide by cop."

"This was a pretty clear-cut situation," 9th Judicial District Attorney General Russell Johnson said during a Thursday afternoon news conference.

Vandarack, a 40-year-old native of Laos, had previously served much of a 49-year sentence in Wisconsin for two counts of attempted murder, and his criminal history had also included an affiliation with a gang called the Laotian Kings.