Marks (left) and Fleites (right) (Source: MPD)

MEMPHIS, TN (WMC) - Tennessee Bureau of Investigation released the investigation file in the officer-involved shooting death of Jonathon Bratcher.

A judge granted the release of TBI's file on Bratcher's death Friday. He was killed in January after firing shots at two Memphis police officers, Clement Marks, 29, and Alexander Fleites, 26, according to Memphis Police Department.

CLICK HERE to read part 1 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 2 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 3 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 4 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 5 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 6 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to read part 7 of 7 (PDF)

CLICK HERE to see evidence photos | (WARNING: Photos may not be suitable for all viewers)

This marks the second time a TBI file has been released to the public.

One video in the file shows an officer kicking a gun away from Bratcher's body. Photos also show a weapon laying not far from his body.

Several video files were included in the release. Click the following links to see them: Part 1 | Part 2 | Part 3 | Part 4 | Part 5 | Part 6

Charges were not sought against Officers Clement Marks and Alexander Fleites, and the contents of the file may be able to answer why.

The footage was blurred before being released to the public. The footage comes from a camera on a Shelby County Deputy who stopped to assist during the incident.

In the body camera footage, the deputy, who was also chasing Bratcher, said he saw Bratcher point a gun but did not know if Bratcher or the officer shot first. He is heard on the body camera footage saying, "I don't know who shot first, us or them." He also says, "He had a pistol with an external magazine on it."

According to police statements, Bratcher did not stop when a marked vehicle tried to pull him over. In an attempt to drive off, he reportedly lost control and crashed. That's when officers said he ran and started shooting.

According to a witness statement from the passenger in the car with Bratcher, after the crash, he and Bratcher ran in opposite directions. Shortly after, the passenger said he "heard at least 15-16 shots that sounded like two different guns exchanging fire."

In the statement given by the officer who shot and killed Bratcher, he said during the foot chase Bratcher was, "taking cover behind cars," and after seeing people come out of a nearby church, he said, "I came to a point where I had to end it and aim for his head. That was the only thing visible."

Witness statements vary on whether they saw Bratcher with a gun. This, along with the fact that medical examiner's report states Bratcher's cause of death was a gunshot to the back of the head, still has some questions lingering.

Family, friends walk to remember Jonathon Bratcher

Jonathon Bratcher's family seeks peace on day of funeral

Officers involved in Jonathon Bratcher shooting identified

EXCLUSIVE: DA speaks about Bratcher's TBI file

Judge grants release of Jonathon Bratcher's TBI file

Copyright 2016 WMC Action News 5. All rights reserved.