Dearborn Police Department.png

Dearborn Police Department

DEARBORN, MI -- A Dearborn police officer shot a fleeing 31-year-old Detroit woman, who almost hit an officer with her vehicle, near Dearborn Fairlane Mall about 4:10 p.m. Wednesday, State Police Lt. Mike Shaw says.

This is the second fatal shooting involving a Dearborn police officer in a little over a month.

Shaw says Dearborn police were called to Fairlane Mall because the woman was causing "a disturbance." Upon arrival, security guards told the officers she nearly hit two security guards with her vehicle, one on foot and another in a security vehicle.

Police tried to stop the woman but she fled the mall parking lot and became stuck in traffic, according to Shaw. When Traffic cleared, two police vehicles closed in and tried to stop her, but she attempted to flee again, "almost striking one of the officers," which led to an officer shooting the suspect.

Shaw didn't say how many times she'd been hit. An officer also suffered nonfatal injuries.

Images of the the shooting scene captured by WJBK-TV Fox 2 News show the suspect's vehicle, a Chevrolet HHR, wedged between two Dearborn police vehicles. There is a large hole in the passenger's-side window and three holes through the passenger side of the windshield.

Shaw would not tell MLive which side the vehicle the officer fired on the woman from. He said Dearborn police asked state police to conduct an independent investigation of the shooting.

State forensics and Special Investigations Section personnel remained on scene as of 7:30 p.m.

Dearborn police killed 35-year-old Kevin Matthews, a mentally-ill man, in December after it's alleged he struggled with and officer in the backyard of a Detroit residence. That killing led to multiple protests.

Detroit Police Chief James Craig following that shooting told George Hunter of the Detroit News a woman witnessed the struggle, and that when backup arrived the officer's uniform was dirty, torn and his gun holster loosened.

Many who attended a protest march following the shooting doubted that explanation.

The officer followed Matthews at first in his vehicle and then on foot into a yard in Detroit. The Department issued a statement the day of the shooting stating Matthews was wanted on a minor warrant from another city and suspected of committing a larceny in Dearborn earlier the same day.

Because authorities won't discuss the case, it's not clear if the officer who shot Matthews learned about those details before or after the fatal shooting.

Though Dearborn police told MLive officers wear microphones and have dashboard cameras, they will not confirm if there is audio or video evidence in that case.