A Douglas County grand jury returned no charges Thursday against any law enforcement authorities in the deaths of seven men who died in police custody or while in the presence of police.

Under state law, a grand jury is convened to investigate a case any time a person dies in jail, while in custody or while law enforcement is trying to arrest the person.

The 16 grand jurors reviewed evidence over the past three days and returned no indictments in these notable cases:

» Kenneth Clark. Clark, 45, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound after killing two brothers, Jason and John Edwards, who had come to help their sister move out of Clark’s house in northwest Omaha. Clark had held his former girlfriend, Julie Edwards, hostage and then killed himself after a lengthy standoff with Douglas County sheriff’s deputies and Omaha police.

» Mark L’Heureux, 59, survived his own lengthy standoff, only to die in jail. L’Heureux shot at officers and shot and killed an Omaha police dog during the standoff Jan. 21 and 22 at his home near 83rd Street and Keystone Drive. Omaha police officers, who originally went to the house to take L’Heureux for a court-order psychiatric evaluation, were able to subdue him and get him to surrender after spraying a fire hose into the basement.

Less than two weeks later, L’Heureux died in the jail from a degenerative medical condition known as water on the brain. He also had an enlarged heart.

» Lance McIntire, 44, was shot and killed April 7 after, Omaha police say, he drove a Toyota Camry at officers who had arrived to investigate McIntire’s possible involvement in firearms violations. Gang-unit officer Dale Thomas had gone to the trunk of his Omaha police vehicle and then to the driver’s side when McIntire tried to escape by driving through a narrow gap between the police cars. Omaha police said Thomas was directly in the path of McIntire. He backed up and fired 16 times in five seconds, hitting and killing McIntire.

» William A. Adams, 33, was shot when he pulled a gun from his mouth and lowered it in the direction of officers in the doorway of an apartment in the Grover Square Apartments at 3712 S. 68th Plaza. Adams, suspected in a car theft, repeatedly had said he wanted to die and didn’t want to go back to prison. Officer Jordan Brandt fired a rifle at Adams, first from where he had been kneeling in the doorway, then inside.

Other cases in which the grand jury returned no indictments:

» Nicholas Paape shot himself in the head with a shotgun after deputies went to his house to check his well-being. They were on the phone with Paape when he shot himself.

» Daniel Hoyt died of an enlarged heart at the Lasting Hope medical center after Omaha police placed him in emergency protective custody. Responding to a call, police had found him suicidal, drunk and with a gun on his lap at his house in Omaha.

» Richard Stubbs crashed his car into a guard shack at Valmont Industries while being pursued by Valley police in November. Stubbs, 58, had been fleeing police at speeds near 100 mph before the crash into the shack at 288th and Ida Streets. He died of injuries from the crash.

Contact the writer: 402-444-1275, todd.cooper@owh.com