Advertisement UPDATE: OPD says William Adams 'began to lower' gun toward officers Department releases extensive statement Share Copy Link Copy

UPDATE: The Omaha Police Department has released an extensive statement describing their version of what took place the night Williams Adams was shot and killed.The statement describes a standoff situation with Adams in an agitated state, waving a gun around and repeatedly asking officers to shoot him.At one point, the release says Adams put his gun in his mouth, tensed up, then took it back out.It goes on to describe what happened next:"He then pulled the gun out of his mouth and began to lower the weapon in the direction of officers in the doorway. At this time, an officer who had been in a kneeling position in the doorway fired a round at Mr. Adams, he continued into the apartment firing additional rounds, striking Mr. Adams."The officer who fired the shots, Officer Jordan Brandt, is on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal investigation.You can read the entire statement from OPD by scrolling to the bottom of this story.*****The man killed in Thursday's standoff with Omaha police has been identified as William A. Adams, 33.Adam's aunt sat down for an exclusive interview about the recent incident."I used to tell him, 'Don't do as I do, do as I don't do -- and you'll be alright,'" said Gail Tierney. "I would then say, 'Because if you do what I do, you're in trouble.'"Tierney says although she believes family issues may have led to Thursday's incident, she also feels responsible for Adams' death because he watched her grow up."He used to say, 'I learned it from the best,' and that makes me feel so bad," said Tierney. "Everyone says it's not my fault, but I blame myself."Omaha police say Adams was shot when officers attempted to apprehend him after he reportedly barricaded himself in the Grover Square Apartments.The initial call was for a stolen vehicle report near 14th and B streets at 4:50 p.m., police say. Officers found the vehicle at an apartment complex near 68th and Grover streets."My nephew is known to have run around with stolen cars once in awhile," said Tierney.Tierney says she doesn't know who owns the stolen car.Police established a perimeter and checked the apartments, looking for whoever stole the car. They located Adams at 5:12 p.m. Tierney says Adams had a female friend who lives in the apartments."How did they know what apartment he was in?" said Tierney. "He was set up."Gunfire erupted.Tierney said she doesn't know if Adams fired any shots when confronted by police, and she doesn't believe he did.She adds, "if he did, it was probably toward the ceiling.""I don't think he would fire toward them," said Tierney. "He might've though."Omaha police have not confirmed who fired first, stating, "At one point, shots were fired. A firearm was discharged by an Omaha police officer.""He wasn't going back to jail," said Tierney. Tierney adds Adams would've put up a gun battle before being placed in handcuffs.KETV NewsWatch 7 asked if Tierney thought the police officer was justified in the shooting."I'm biased," said Tierney. "No, they weren't because it's my nephew. However, yes, because they were only protecting themselves and doing their job."Tierney adds: "They didn't have to shoot him five times. I hope you guys (police) can sleep at night for what you've done to my sister. Not only to my nephew, but my sister, because now she has to live with the fact that she has to bury another child."KETV NewsWatch 7 is awaiting police response to Adams' allegations and comments.Tierney says doctors at Nebraska Medical Center reported to the family Adams had been shot in the lower abdominal area, lung and heart. "At 1:02 a.m. Friday, they pronounced him dead," said Tierney.Tierney wants to see body camera footage of the confrontation."I want to see everything," said Tierney. "I want to know play-by-play what happened and why they killed my nephew."While speaking about her nephew, Tierney discussed his relationship with family -- adding Adams had six kids with two on the way."We were close," said Tierney. "He was a good guy and had a big heart. He loved his kids."According to Tierney, Adams has been to prison before for similar charges. Tierney says Adams should've been in police custody, but he shouldn't have been shot to death."He was still doing bad things, but he was trying," said Tierney. "He's not a bad person. People make mistakes and go down the wrong path. Drugs do that to people."Tierney said Adams' brother was also killed by Omaha police on Jan. 15, 2010."He was going to go out like his brother and everyone knew that," Tierney said.She adds that when Adams' brother was killed, the family had a hard time coping."They're just going to get away with it again. It's not right. It's not fair," Tierney said.Tierney closed the conversation with McKenith saying she continues to blame herself because they saw her in the gang life."I'd tell him, 'Billy you can't come here around trouble,'" said Tierney. "'Go home to your wife and kids.' But he wouldn't do it."Tierney says now she is faced with trying to make sense of the days to come."He's going to be missed. I'll never forget him. I'm never going to forget him," said Tierney. "He's dead, and there's nothing we can do to bring my nephew back. None of them." ******Full text of statement released by the Omaha Police Department:On Thursday, January 28th, 2016 at 4:50 p.m. a citizen called 911 to report he had tracked a stolen Silver 2006 Ford Escape to the area of 14th and “B” Streets in Omaha. The citizen advised the vehicle was reported stolen earlier in the day, but was not able to verify the license plate number when talking to 911. The citizen told 911 that the vehicle was equipped with a GPS tracking system, which allowed him to monitor the location of the vehicle without physically following it. An officer called the citizen and was provided constant updates as to the location of the vehicle. The officer then relayed this information to other officers via the police radio.At 5:12 p.m., the citizen advised the officer the vehicle had stopped at 3782 S. 68th Plaza. Again, this information was relayed to officers via the police radio. Almost simultaneously, ABLE 1 located the stolen vehicle, which was parked on the south side of the apartment complex. Prior to the vehicle stopping at the apartment complex, 22 minutes had elapsed from the initial phone call made by the citizen. At no time did any Omaha Police officer attempt to stop or have visual contact of the vehicle while it was moving. Within a minute of ABLE 1 locating the vehicle, officers confirmed the vehicle had been reported stolen. The vehicle was not occupied when officers approached it. Two officers at the scene, witnessed two males of unknown race run into the building at 3712 S. 68th Plaza from the direction of the stolen car.Officers immediately set up a perimeter around 3712 S. 68th Plaza, a three-story apartment building, in an attempt to locate the suspect. ABLE 1 helped coordinate the officers to establish a perimeter so as to minimize the chances of the suspect/s escaping. Officers made contact with the building management who indicated Apartment #177 was a problem apartment. The officers cleared all common areas of the building searching for the possible suspects. Officers began going door to door in apartment building 3712 S. 68th Plaza to search for the suspects and to advise residents that suspects from a stolen car may be in the building.At approximately 6:45 p.m. officers went to apartment #177, located on the second floor, and repeatedly knocked on the door. The female resident who exited the apartment was very distraught and crying. She told officers a man, later determined to be Mr. Adams, was inside of her apartment and had a gun. She also told officers Mr. Adams had told her he had a warrant. She told officers she felt threatened by Mr. Adams and felt like he was holding her hostage. The female resident said there were other people inside the apartment with Mr. Adams. Because of this information, officers contacted dispatch advising they were dealing with a hostage situation and a rescue squad was put on stand-by. A Hostage Negotiator was requested.As officers held the apartment door open, two men and two women walked out on their own or were ordered out by officers. They told officers Mr. Adams entered the apartment and threatened them with a silver handgun. Mr. Adams accused one man of “setting him up” and pointed the gun at him. They said Mr. Adams ordered everyone into a small room at gun-point and forced them to remove the batteries from their cell phones. Mr. Adams told them he wanted to kill himself. Mr. Adams remained in the apartment and officers could hear him talking.At approximately 6:50 p.m. four officers took positions on the open doorway leading into apartment #177. Officers could see Mr. Adams had a handgun pointed at his head. Officers made loud, repetitive verbal commands for Mr. Adams to put the gun down and come out of the apartment. Mr. Adams was displaying erratic behavior, waving the gun in the air, profusely sweating, and pacing around the apartment. Mr. Adams appeared to be under the influence of narcotics.Mr. Adams refused to put the gun down and refused to exit the apartment. One of the officers began to negotiate with Mr. Adams. During the negotiations, Mr. Adams repeatedly said he wanted to die and asked officers to shoot him. Mr. Adams said he did not want to go back to prison and asked officers what he had to do to get them to shoot him. Negotiations continued with Mr. Adams and he was repeatedly asked to put the gun down and come out of the apartment. During this time, Mr. Adams was seen putting the barrel of the gun in his mouth, under his chin and to his head several times.The Omaha Police Department has recovered two audio/video recordings from cruiser cameras activated at the scene during the incident. There is no relevant video footage as the cars were parked in the apartment parking lot. On the audio recordings from officers’ in-car transmitters, officers can be heard repeatedly asking Mr. Adams to put his gun down and come out of the apartment. A witness from a neighboring apartment told a detective he could hear the verbal exchange between the officers and Mr. Adams, but could not see any activity taking place because he remained inside his apartment. Negotiations with Mr. Adams continued for approximately 30 minutes.At approximately 7:19 p.m. Mr. Adams grasped the weapon with both hands and placed the gun into his mouth, closed his eyes, and tensed up. He then pulled the gun out of his mouth and began to lower the weapon in the direction of officers in the doorway. At this time, an officer who had been in a kneeling position in the doorway fired a round at Mr. Adams, he continued into the apartment firing additional rounds, striking Mr. Adams.Mr. Adams was immediately treated by an on-scene Omaha Fire Department Medic Unit. He was transported to the Nebraska Medical Center by rescue squad to be treated for his injuries. During the course of treating Mr. Adams, medical personnel located suspected narcotics in his buttocks. Mr. Adams was pronounced dead at 1:02 a.m. on Friday, January 29, 2016.A loaded weapon matching the description provided by the victims and officers was recovered from the crime scene.At this point in the investigation, 20 sworn law enforcement personnel and 7 civilian witnesses have been interviewed by the Omaha Police Department’s Officer-Involved Investigations Team. This investigation is on-going and additional information will be released as it becomes available. Autopsy and toxicology results are pending.The officer who discharged his patrol rifle was Jordan Brandt. Officer Brandt is a six-year veteran. Other officers who were in close proximity to Officer Brandt at the time of the shooting were Officer James Haley, a 7-1/2 year veteran, Officer James Holtmeyer, a 7 1/2- year veteran, and Officer Nicholas Yarpe, a 7-year veteran.During the course of this investigation, investigators learned that Mr. Adams’ brother, Daniel Adams, died as the result of an Omaha Police officer-involved shooting incident on January 15, 2010.The Omaha Police Department extends it condolences to the family of William Adams.Per Omaha Police Department policy, any officer who discharges his/her firearm that results in injury or death is placed on paid administrative leave pending the Officer-Involved Investigations Team and Internal Affairs investigations. Officer Brandt officer has been placed on paid administrative leave. Per state law, a Grand Jury will be convened to investigate the actions of the officers. Any additional information about this incident will be released by the Omaha Police Department Press Information Office.Anyone with information regarding this investigation is urged to contact police at (402) 444-5652, or Crime Stoppers. We don’t want to know your name or phone number, only your information about the crime.