Katie de la Rosa

Kdelarosa@coloradoan.com

The 38-year-old Fort Collins man fatally shot by a Larimer County sheriff's deputy Saturday was allegedly armed with a large pair of scissors.

According to a Fort Collins Police Services release, deputies reported seeing Philip B. Salazar wield a large pair of scissors, which was found at the scene of the SWAT standoff at Collins Aire Park, 401 N. Timberline Road. Salazar allegedly took a woman hostage after deputies responded to a domestic disturbance call. The woman was not injured.

FCPS will lead the investigation to determine what happened Saturday, as outlined in the new Critical Incident Protocol that probes officer-involved shootings. This is the first time the new multi-agency protocol has been implemented with the sheriff's office. It ensures an outside organization is tasked with piecing together events. Kate Kimble, FCPS spokeswoman, will be responsible for release of information.

CRIME: Suspected arsonist causes CSU building, cars damage

Investigators have found that one member of Larimer County Sheriff’s Office fired a department-issued rifle, multiple times, though police failed to say specifically how many times the weapon was fired. Per department protocol, the officer has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of a use-of-force investigation.

During the incident, SWAT teams and hostage negotiators from the sheriff's office and FCPS were called to the scene after the man would not let a woman go, said LCSO Lt. Bobby Moll. He said once deputies arrived, the domestic violence incident turned into a hostage situation with Salazar, who did not obey SWAT commands.

PREVIOUS:

Questions remain in deputy-involved fatal shooting

Man identified from fatal SWAT standoff

After learning Salazar posed an "imminent threat to the hostage," law enforcement entered the room where the individuals were barricaded.

The Critical Investigation Response Team will present investigative findings to the Larimer County District Attorney’s Office and Larimer County Sheriff’s Office as soon as the investigation is complete. Detectives and investigators are still conducting interviews, reviewing interviews conducted the night of the incident and reviewing hundreds of items of evidence that were collected, according to the news release.

Salazar had an ongoing felony second-degree assault case moving through the courts, apparently stemming from an incident Jan. 11, Colorado criminal records show. He has not had recent felony charges lodged against him locally other than the assault. According to Facebook, he was a Poudre High School graduate who was passionate about fitness.

Fort Collins on accident alert; Snow storm swings into full force