Rapper Fif Money (inset) was shot and killed by police on Sunday. View Full Caption Facebook

CHICAGO — A Chicago rapper involved in a home invasion at Derrick Rose's former home in Englewood was shot dead by police during a shootout early Sunday, police said.

Charles Smith, 29, rapped under the name "FiF Money." Police said they responded to multiple calls of a "person with a gun/home invasion" at 4:40 a.m. Sunday.

When they got to the house in the 7300 block of South Paulina Street — where the Bulls' star point guard grew up — they were met by an armed Smith and gunshots were exchanged, police said.

Police fatally shot the man and found his gun, police said.

The man was identified as Smith, of the 3100 block of West 77th Street, according to Cook County Medical Examiner's records. He was pronounced dead at 5:40 a.m. at the scene.

Breanna Patterson, 20, faces murder and home invasion charges, police said. View Full Caption Courtesy Chicago Police Department

In his song "Get in Line," Smith rapped about violence and drugs in his home neighborhood of Englewood.

"I live in Englewood. This b---- a f---ing forest 'cause everything around me is like f---ing poisonous," Smith rapped. "And if I get bit, I hope I heal quick, and a Tommy gun is what I spray them bullets with."

Smith and his girlfriend, Breanna Patterson, 20, of the 7200 block of South Wolcott, broke into the Englewood home while looking for a man who robbed them, prosecutors said on Monday, according to the Tribune. Smith pointed his gun at officers and fired, prosecutors said, leading to him being shot.

Patterson faces charges of first degree murder and home invasion, according to Chicago Police.

Anyone that committed a felony that resulted in death can be charged with that murder, even if he or she was not the shooter, according to state law.

The incident is the year's first police-involved fatal shooting. The officers involved will be placed on administrative duty for 30 days, a new policy under interim Supt. John Escalante.

No officers were injured. The shooting will be investigated by the Independent Police Review Authority.

Police did not release any additional information.

For more neighborhood news, listen to DNAinfo Radio here: