Illinois State Police on Wednesday were investigating the fatal shooting by Harvey police of a janitor who family members said was armed only with an empty BB gun.

"Nobody is going to say if it's a BB gun or not a BB gun at this point," said Harvey Police Chief Phillip Hardiman. "I really honestly don't know."

Advertisement

Rodney Craig, died of multiple gunshot wounds three hours short of his 39th birthday, said the Cook County medical examiner's office. His death was ruled a homicide.

Craig was outside his home Tuesday night in the 15100 block of South Myrtle Avenue, pacing the lawn with a rifle in one hand and a knife in the other, Hardiman said, when officers arrived after a call about a man with a gun.

Advertisement

Craig had argued with his wife, Felicia, earlier that night, his family said, and had been circling behind his home while holding an empty BB gun, which he had owned since he was a child, and a cell phone.

Police said that for more than 20 minutes, they tried to coax Craig to put down his weapons. He refused, made a cell phone call, then pointed his rifle at officers "as if to shoot," Hardiman said.

Officers fired, but Hardiman could not say how many times. Craig's family members said they counted nine shots from their house next door, including one that broke a window in Craig's house, where two of his daughters and a niece and nephew waited.

Craig's brother-in-law, Bobby Young, 40, said that before the shooting, he stepped out onto his back porch to talk to Craig and told police that Craig had only a BB gun. "I'm telling [the officer]--`What he has in his hand is a BB gun. It's a toy. It does not work,'" Young said. "[The officer] said: `OK. Go back in the house.'"

Representatives from the medical examiner's office found Craig lying facedown, an office spokesman said, adding that police reported his assault weapon and four .45-caliber shell casings were found a few feet away.

Harvey police asked state police and the Cook County state's attorney's office to investigate the shooting. The officers involved remain on active duty, Hardiman said.

This is the first shooting by an officer in the last few years, he said. "It appears to be justified at this point, but we want to wait for the official word."