MARTINEZ — A Pittsburg resident died from asphyxiation after an Antioch officer had put him in a neck hold, a forensic pathologist testified Thursday.

Wendell Celestine Jr., 37, died after an early morning fight with Antioch police Officer Mark Moraga and Corporal Mike Mortimer on Feb. 5. Two days earlier, Celestine had walked out of a hospital against doctors’ orders, after police arrested him in an unrelated incident and found him to be suffering from hypothermia.

Forensic pathologist Dr. Ikechi Ogan testified that he determined Celestine had died from asphyxiation caused from “mechanical obstruction of the airways.” During the fight with Celestine, Moraga used a carotid hold, a technique designed to block arteries in the neck and render a subject unconscious.

Celestine was also found with high levels of methamphetamine in his system, Ogan testified.

It took roughly 30 minutes for a coroner’s inquest jury reviewing the death to vote unanimously that it was caused by an accident. The legal definition of an accident given to jurors includes the “unintended consequences” resulting from human action. The deliberation, while brief, was longer than coroner’s inquest juries typically take.

Inquest juries are asked to choose one of four causes of death: accident, suicide, natural causes, or at the hands of another, not by accident.

Moraga, as well as Antioch police Detective James Vanderpool — who interviewed Mortimer — took the stand and described Celestine as having “super-human strength” during an intense struggle with both officers that started after they found him in a car at a dead end on Sixth Street. Moraga testified that Celestine ignored their repeated commands to stop resisting, punched Mortimer in the jaw, and at one point picked the roughly 200-pound officer off the ground.

“In my mind, it was clear Celestine wanted to cause us harm,” Moraga said under oath.

Mortimer and Moraga both struck Celestine in the legs with their flashlights, according to police testimony, but the move had no effect. Moraga testified that he thought about using his stun gun but did not have easy access to it and determined the best way to cuff Celestine was to “render him unconscious.”

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | ACLU, justice groups sue Santa Clara County court alleging unfair jailings

ACLU, justice groups sue Santa Clara County court alleging unfair jailings Crime and Public Safety | Police typo leads to guns drawn on family in Texas

Police typo leads to guns drawn on family in Texas Crime and Public Safety | Borenstein: Oakland crime surges way beyond San Jose and SF levels

Borenstein: Oakland crime surges way beyond San Jose and SF levels Crime and Public Safety | Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California

Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California Crime and Public Safety | At hearing for ex-deputy charged with felonies, Contra Costa detective testifies ex-deputy had judges’ e-signatures saved on thumb drive After Celestine was placed in the hold, he went unconscious for several seconds, was handcuffed, but then woke up and continued to resist, Moraga testified. Mortimer and Moraga, as well as backup officers who had since arrived, attempted to put him in a WRAP device, which is used to restrain a subject’s limbs. He again lost consciousness and was later declared dead.

The carotid hold involves the use of both arms to squeeze certain arteries in a person’s neck. It is employed by many U.S. police departments but has drawn criticism because it can sometimes cause arteries to close and not re-open. Some police departments that allow carotid holds also restrict officers from employing them except in life-or-death situations.

Moraga testified that he learned the technique at the Contra Costa Sheriff’s police academy.

“It’s something that we execute on each other … I’ve been placed in a (carotid) restraint maybe 20-30 times in a day,” Moraga said.

Antioch police are required to notify medical responders whenever a carotid hold is used. That procedure was followed in the Feb. 5 incident, according to officer testimony.

Celestine’s family has filed a legal claim — a precursor to a lawsuit — against the city of Antioch over the death. The jury’s Thursday verdict carries no civil or criminal liability.