UNION GROVE - The man killed after shooting at deputies Friday night in northern Iredell County has been identified.

The man, who is believed to have robbed the Capital Bank in Union Grove on Friday evening, is Vinson Ray Stickland, 51, of Kannapolis, Iredell Sheriff Darren Campbell announced Monday.

Campbell said notifying the man’s next-of-kin took some time and that is the reason the name was not released sooner.

The three deputies involved in the shooting are Derrick Stutts, Leonard Hayes and Carl Adams, he said. All three are on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal investigation.

The incident began around 5 p.m. Friday when an alarm was received from Capital Bank on West Memorial Highway, Union Grove.

Campbell said Strickland presented a note to the teller at Capital Bank indicating he had a weapon. Strickland patted his waistband when he handed over the note.

After getting cash, Campbell said, the man ran from the bank and into a wooded area behind the building.

Campbell said Strickland had a vehicle parked at a nearby business and he is unsure of why Strickland chose to try to flee on foot. He said it’s possible the quick response of deputies forced Strickland to change his plans.

A couple of deputies, including one canine handler, were on the scene within a few minutes of the alarm call, Campbell said. Those deputies began an immediate track in the area behind G&G Lumber Co., which is situated beside the bank.

Other deputies, along with troopers from the N.C. Highway Patrol, surrounded the area in an effort to keep the man contained, he said.

After two hours of searching, Stutts, Hayes and Adams found Strickland in a heavily wooded area about a mile from the bank, Campbell said. After several commands to surrender, Campbell said, Strickland fired at least one time at the deputies, and they returned fire, striking and killing the suspect.

Campbell said a weapon and a large amount of cash were found near Strickland’s body.

The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation is conducting a separate investigation into the shooting and that report will be turned over to District Attorney Sarah Kirkman’s office to determine if the shooting was justified.

The placing of the deputies on paid administrative leave and the SBI investigation are standard procedures following an officer-involved shooting, Campbell said.