SHARE Laron Ball

By of the

A decade after a desperate attempt to escape from a Milwaukee courtroom left a deputy wounded, a jury terrorized and the defendant dead, the county's courthouse is probably a safer place.

But not fail-safe, Milwaukee County Sheriff David A. Clarke Jr. says.

"I don't want an officer to feel this couldn't happen today," Clarke said Tuesday, the anniversary of one of the courthouse's darkest days. "Never say never."

Laron Ball was on trial for felony murder and armed robbery in May 2002. Special security plans had been put in place because of his violent reputation and the fact he'd even discussed trying to escape or die in a courtroom shootout. But May 29, 2002, the last day of his trial, Ball, 20, wasn't wearing the stun belt.

As the jury's guilty verdicts were read, he jumped over a table and the jury box to a window but failed to smash it open. Two sheriff's deputies tackled him, but he got hold of their guns, and one deputy, Mike Witkowski, was shot in the leg before a Milwaukee police detective shot and killed Ball.

No one else was hurt, but the incident produced wide procedural, professional and political fallout. The wounded deputy, who had been asked to fill in at the last minute from another courtroom, wound up on disability leave and sued in federal court, where the case was dismissed. Three jurors also sued over the traumatic experience.

Clarke fired the two deputies who didn't follow the security plan, but they both won reinstatement and remain working for the department.

Ball's lawyer died in 2008.

The judge in the case, Jacqueline Schellinger, who stayed in the courtroom with the jury, would retire from the bench about a year later, after months of not showing up at work. She is now the counsel to the Indian Community School.

Schellinger didn't want to talk on the record but clearly remains affected by witnessing the violence in her courtroom, and she still blames courthouse politics for the trial being in a less-secure courtroom.

Her deputy court clerk that day, Sharon Rogers, stayed with the courts system until she retired last year after 23 years. She now works part time for the Indian Community School.

"I certainly couldn't have survived 10 more years if I let the judicial bureaucracy knock me down," said Rogers, who was reassigned to children's court after the shooting. "I didn't. I finished my career with honor. I loved (her job). It's a risk you take."

Alfonso Morales, the detective she credits with saving her life by shooting Ball, is now a lieutenant with the Police Department.

Ball's family thought Morales should be charged, but an inquest jury found that he acted in self-defense.

Clarke had been sheriff only a few weeks when Ball tried to escape.

"That event epitomized for me the inadequacies of the agency," he said Tuesday. "I felt we were poorly trained, not properly equipped and didn't follow orders well enough."

Many changes followed, starting with something as simple as getting deputies better holsters, training them about weapon security, and getting deputies body armor. High-risk defendants who might have had their arms free during trial now get cuffed and shackled when a verdict is read.

Other changes involved staffing and procedures that sometimes add to delays and an intimidating atmosphere, but Clarke doesn't apologize.

"Laron Ball sensed they had dropped their guard," Clarke said. "Today, a defendant will sense these guys seem ready."