A teenager gunned down his mother in their home near Uvalde, Texas, and went to the house next door to kill a pair of brothers before committing suicide, police said.

Dylan Westerburg, 18, was seen killing one of the brothers, and the witness called for help, county sheriff Charlie Mendeke said.

When the police arrived on the scene, they heard a single gunshot. Authorities surrounded the home and began evacuating nearby residents.

Dylan Westerburg gunned down his mother in their home near Uvalde, Texas, and went to the house next door to kill a pair of brothers before committing suicide, police said.

The teenager had previously posted a photograph of his assault rifle with the caption: 'I love my gun, it's a good gun.'

Police said a witness saw Westerburg kill one of the brothers and called for help. When authorities arrived on the scene, they heard a gunshot, which they now believe was the sound of the teenager killing himself

Investigators now believe the gunshot was the sound of Westerburg committing suicide inside the neighbors' home, located about 85 miles west of San Antonio.

Police waited to enter the house on Saturday, where they found the three bodies inside.

Westerburg posted a Facebook photo in 2014 of an assault rifle, with the caption: 'I love my gun, it's a good gun.'

The teenager's father Kenneth Westerburg shared that he was heartbroken and identified the mother as Jennifer Jacques, 42.

He wrote: 'On 2-5-2016 one of my sons passed away and my best friend died in the most horrible way.

'Dylan Westerburg, 18-years-old, also his mother Jennifer Jacques, 42-years-old died and two others. They all will be missed in some way, each different in their own way.

'I can't help but to think, "Is there a good God?" One thing is for sure, or I hope is that they are all out of pain and their souls found their way to the other side.'

Mendeke says investigators have not yet determined a clear motive.

Dylan's mother, identified by Kenneth Westerburg as Jennifer Jacques, 42, was killed in her home

Kenneth Westerburg, Dylan's father, shared that he was 'heartbroken' and wrote 'one of my sons passed away and my best friend died in the most horrible way'.