The Alaska attorney general’s office says the officer-involved shooting of Barrow resident Vincent Nageak in February was justified and that no criminal charges will be filed.

In a report issued last week, Nageak is portrayed as a man who was intoxicated and threatening officers with a shotgun, taunting them to shoot him.

Nageak’s father, Roy, said he’s aware of the report.

“We’re grieving. We trying to decide how to deal with it,” he said. “What is done is done. Nothing will bring our son back.”

An Army veteran who headed the Barrow Volunteer Fire Department and a former city councilman, Vincent Nageak, 36, was a father of five. He was shot to death in his home – with bullets striking his neck, chest, and left leg -- in the early hours of Feb. 10 after his wife Lilibeth called 911.

Lilibeth had called her brother at about 3 a.m. that day. She said she was fighting with her husband, whom Lilibeth described as drunk. (An autopsy later determined his blood alcohol level to be 0.172.)

Her brother spoke to Vincent Nageak on the phone and unsuccessfully tried to convince him to go to sleep, according to a May 19 report by Robert Henderson, supervising assistant attorney general.

While on the phone with her brother, Lilibeth saw her husband grab a shotgun, the report said. At that point, she called the North Slope Police Department.

North Slope Police Sgt. James Michels and Officer Anthony Fonua responded to the call. Both of them knew Nageak professionally and personally, the report said.

Michels got there first and tried to engage Nageak in conversation by asking if he was okay. Nageak responded saying Michels had no right to be in his house.

When Nageak retreated to the bedroom, Michels told Lilibeth and her children to leave the house. At that point, Fonua arrived.

Both officers tried to get Nageak to leave the bedroom and speak with them.

He refused, according to the report, which includes a moment-by-moment description of the events that morning. That report includes information from an Alaska Bureau of Investigations review of the shooting.

The officers heard the sound of a shotgun racking, meaning a round being cycled through a gun’s firing chamber.

“I have a gun,” Nageak said, according to the report. “I am ready to go out shooting.”

Speaking to Michels, Nageak said, “get ready to shoot.”

Both officers drew their pistols. Armed with the shotgun, Nageak left the bedroom, pointing the weapon toward officers, the report says.

Michels fired four rounds, striking Nageak with three.

The officer told investigators he not only feared for his life but that of Fonua, who did not fire. Fonua was directly in the line of fire, according to the report.

“Sgt. Michels was legally justified in using deadly force to stop Mr. Nageak. Equally, Sgt. Michels was legally justified in using deadly force to defend Officer Fonua,” Henderson concluded.

"I think we concur," said Roy Nageak, the father. “A lawsuit won’t bring my son back,” he added.

In the meantime, the family is trying to forgive Michels for shooting their loved one.

"We're feeling the pain but we have forgiveness in our hearts," he said.