MashupLarger.jpg

Sahlah Ridgeway, 32, was shot and killed Friday night by a Syracuse police officer in front of a North Side apartment complex, police said. Ridgeway previously shared these photos on her Facebook pages.

(Facebook image)

SYRACUSE, N.Y. - The woman fatally shot by Syracuse police Friday night outside a North Side apartment building has been identified.

Sahlah Ridgeway, 32, was shot by an officer in front of Kimton Place Apartments around 8:30 p.m., Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler confirmed this afternoon during a press conference about an unrelated rash of robberies.

Fowler said Ridgeway was armed with a sawed-off shotgun when she was confronted by police. When she refused to drop the weapon, an officer shot her, Fowler said.

Ridgeway lived in apartment 10 of the 1313 Butternut St. apartment complex, police said. She was a Fowler High School alumna, according to her Facebook page.

A profile photo on Shalah Ridgeway's Facebook page uploaded on Jan. 10, 2016 that appears to be her.

On one of her Facebook pages, there is a photo, posted Jan. 10, of a woman who appears to be her holding a gun, pointed at the camera.

Two uniformed officers responded to Kimton Place Apartments around 8:30 p.m. after a 911 caller reported drugs were being sold on the building's third floor, Fowler said.

One officer tried to get in the front of the building while the other officer tried to get in the back of the building, Fowler said.

When a group of people near the back of the building saw the officer, Ridgeway ran toward the front of the building while holding a shotgun, Fowler said. She was confronted by the officer stationed near the front of the building, he said.

The officer repeatedly ordered Ridgeway to drop her weapon, Fowler said. When she refused, the officer shot her, Fowler said.

The officers gave Ridgeway first aid until a Rural/Metro Ambulance crew arrived. Ridgeway was transported to Upstate University Hospital, where she died.

When asked where Ridgeway was shot, Fowler said "that story" would be told by a medical examiner.

The names of the officers involved in the fatal incident will be released Monday. Department policy requires officers' names to be released 72 hours after an incident.

The two officers who responded to the apartment complex never got a chance to investigate the drug dealing complaint, Fowler said. When asked if any drugs were recovered he said anyone who may have been dealing drugs likely stopped and fled when the shooting happened.

"Unfortunately, we didn't even get to that point," Fowler said.

There is no evidence Ridgeway was involved in the reported drug activity, Fowler said. He wasn't sure if she had a criminal history.

The shooting is being investigated by the Onondaga County District Attorney's Office, Fowler said.

"It was a challenging situation that an officer faced in that moment, and they were left with no choice," Fowler said. "It's not something any of us want to encounter in our career."

Relatives and friends of Ridgeway grieved her death in Facebook posts. Mourners shared photos and videos of Ridgeway, including a YouTube video of Ridgeway's entry for a 16-bar rap challenge.

A few people wrote posts using the hashtags #JusticeForSahlah or #BlackLivesMatter.

Tiffany Caskinette, Ridgeway's cousin, wrote a post for Ridgeway -- telling Ridgeway she loved her and wished she had gotten a chance to "live the life I knew you deserved."

"I can't believe I won't be able to see your beautiful face again in person," Caskinette wrote. "I know you're in a safer place than here."