FARGO, N.D. — A man who was involved in a police standoff that left him and a Fargo officer dead last month died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to a review of the 11-hour incident released Friday.

The review conducted by the office of the Cass County state’s attorney shows that after suspect Marcus Schumacher shot Fargo police officer Jason Moszer during the standoff that began on Feb. 10, a police sniper fired two rounds and wounded Schumacher in the right arm, but did not kill him. Schumacher then used a rifle to fatally shot himself in the head, according to the review that was turned over to the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

State’s Attorney Birch Burdick concluded that the two shots from the sniper — the only rounds fired by law enforcement during the incident — were justified and no charges should be filed against the sniper.

The review states Moszer was hit while he was “providing perimeter protection and surveillance across the street from the residence, behind the garage.” After shooting Moszer, Schumacher told a police negotiator in a “seemingly matter-of-fact tone” that a police officer had just gone down, according to the review. Moszer died Feb. 11 at a hospital.

During the standoff, Schumacher had conversations with an emergency dispatcher and the negotiator. He stated that “his intent was ‘to not be good’, that he was into the incident too far to put his gun down and that the night would probably not end well,” the review said.

Police recovered multiple guns, about three dozen spent shell casings and about two dozen tear gas canisters from the home. A search warrant revealed that a .243-caliber Winchester bolt-action rifle was found under Schumacher’s body and a .22-caliber Ruger model firearm was found in the kitchen. Two other rifles and a shotgun were found in a gun cabinet in an upstairs bedroom.

An autopsy indicated Schumacher tested positive for various drugs, including methamphetamine and hydrocodone.

Schumacher was convicted of negligent homicide in 1989 in the shooting death of 17-year-old Maynard Clauthier in Grand Forks. He was sentenced to five years in prison. Under North Dakota law, gun rights for a person who is convicted of a felony offense involving violence or intimidation are automatically restored 10 years after the sentence and any ensuing probation.