The city of Republic reached a settlement Thursday with the family of a man who was shot and killed by a police officer in 2016 after suffering a seizure while driving.

The city will pay $1.2 million to settle a lawsuit which was brought by the family of Destry Meikle, according to the family's attorney Jermaine Wooten.

Meikle, 48, was shot and killed by Sgt. John Tinsley during an encounter on Feb. 16, 2016.

The family says Meikle had a seizure while driving, and that caused him to crash into a pair of garages on Peachtree Lane and then act strangely when Tinsley approached.

The officer said Meikle knocked him down and then appeared as though he might try to run him over.

Meikle's family pushed for Tinsley to be charged with a crime, but Greene County Prosecutor Dan Patterson decided three months after the shooting that Tinsley would not face criminal charges since he reasonably believed Meikle was a threat to run him over.

Still, the family filed a lawsuit against the city, claiming Tinsley used "inappropriate force."

Meikle crashed his car into a garage on Peachtree Lane near Elm Street in Republic just before noon on Feb. 16, 2016.

Debris was scattered in the area, and a fire started underneath the vehicle.

Tinsley said he arrived on the scene and broke out the rear passenger window to try to help Meikle.

Meikle then cussed at the officer, put the car in reverse and backed up, knocking Tinsley to the ground, according to the officer.

Tinsley said he stood up and then heard what sounded like the vehicle being shifted into gear and saw the car lunge toward him again. Tinsley said he was afraid for his life and he then shot three times into the vehicle, striking Meikle.

There were no witnesses to the fatal encounter, and it apparently was not recorded on video.

Wooten said based on his analysis of the forensic evidence, he does not believe Tinsley was in danger where he was standing.

The lawsuit says firefighters later determined the car was in reverse.

The lawsuit says that after Meikle was shot, he was forced to walk more than 150 feet to an ambulance, where he told paramedics he had suffered a seizure.

Meikle was transported to a hospital, where he later died.

Meikle was a manager at the Walmart Supercenter on South Campbell Avenue in Springfield at the time of his death. Online records indicate he had no criminal record in Missouri.

Meikle was engaged to be married and has four daughters under the age of 26.

The $1.2 million settlement is the largest for a police shooting case in at least recent Greene County history.

Springfield paid $700,000 to settle with a man shot by an officer who mistakenly grabbed his gun instead of his Taser. Springfield also paid $250,000 in 2015 to settle a lawsuit brought by the family of an unarmed man killed by an officer.

A spokesperson for the city of Republic said Thursday afternoon the city was waiting to hear back from the attorneys for its insurance company on the terms of the settlement.

More:Family sues city of Republic after man with epilepsy was killed by police officer