Associated Press

WAUKESHA - A state legislator asked the federal Department of Justice to review an inquest jury's finding that a police officer was justified in shooting a man brandishing a knife.

Rep. Pedro Colon, D-Milwaukee, wrote a letter to U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft requesting an investigation, saying Waukesha County District Attorney Paul Bucher neglected to call independent experts or key witnesses to support the position of the victim's family.

"This family, most of whom are my constituents, did not get a fair shake," Colon said.

New Berlin police officer Richard Helm shot and killed 39-year-old Michael Moreno on June 1, saying he feared for his safety when the man approached him with a knife. Moreno was about 115 feet away from Helm at the time.

An inquest jury deliberated 15 minutes last week before ruling the shooting was justified.

Colon said in his letter he believed Helm could be criminally liable for Moreno's death, and that Bucher 's conduct was "constitutionally deficient and politically motivated to assure his desired result … a no probable cause finding of any criminal behavior."

Pedro Moreno, Michael Moreno's brother, said calling a civilian witness was crucial to getting the whole truth about his brother's death.

"He was my brother. My big thing is we want to see justice done for what happened," he said. "My family feels that it did not get a fair and impartial investigation."

Bucher said the family's reaction was normal, but he did not feel the need to bring in additional witnesses for the inquest.

"The so-called experts are hired guns, hired by the attorney on a regular basis. They formed an opinion before they read the reports," Bucher said. "Basically, they wanted to make their civil case in the inquest and that is unethical."

Bucher said there was no civilian witness who actually saw the shooting. The witness referred to by the Moreno family and Colon only heard the shooting but did not see it, Bucher said.

Bucher said he welcomed a review of the inquest.

"I certainly would be happy to have any outside authority look at the facts of this case, and I believe they will come to the same conclusion," Bucher said.