This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

TISHOMINGO COUNTY, Miss. — A Mississippi Bureau of Narcotics Agent was killed early Saturday morning during a standoff.

Agent Lee Tartt, 44, was killed in the line of duty this morning in Iuka.

Tartt was a 22-year law enforcement veteran and had been with MBN since September 2000.

He was the 2011 MBN Agent of the Year and received the H. Lane Caldwell Award of Valor in 2012.

He is survived by his wife and two children.

Three other agents were injured.

Gov. Phil Bryant said, “Our men and women in law enforcement put themselves in harm’s way every hour of every shift. This is a tragic reminder that their willingness to serve can exact the highest price. Deborah and I ask all Mississippians to join us in praying for the family of the fallen officer. May God hold him in the hollow of His hand.”

The following information was provided by The Mississippi Highway Patrol:

Agents from Mississippi Bureau of Investigation (MBI) and Mississippi Bureau of Narcotics (MBN) responded at the request of the Tishomingo County Sheriff.

After nearly six hours and negotiations were exhausted, two combined tactical teams from MHP and MBN entered the home. Upon entry, shots were fired between the man and law enforcement officers and MBN Agent Lee Tartt and the male suspect were killed.

Additionally, three state troopers who entered the home were wounded.

The suspect is identified as 45-year-old Charles Lee Lambert. The woman and 10-year-old girl were rescued safely.

The high-powered rifle officials said Lambert used was also recovered from inside the house.

MBI agents, Crime Scene technicians, members of the Criminal Reconstruction Unit, State Crime Lab forensic scientists and the State Medical Examiner are conducting an investigation of the incident.

The nonprofit Badges Supporting Fallen Officers’ Families started a GoFundMe page to raise money to support Tartt’s family.

Tishomingo County Sheriff John Daugherty said Sunday the shooting was “a stark reminder of the inherent dangers of a career in law enforcement.”

“Tragically, a brother in blue was killed and three others were wounded,” he said in the statement. “The names of the three wounded officers could have very easily ended up on their agency’s memorial monument in Jackson.”

The wounded officers are expected to recover, he said.

Daugherty then thanked the law enforcement agencies and emergency responders who helped.

“We pray violence and death will spare us but reality tells us differently. If these emergency responders work together, as a team, the chances of a peaceful resolution to dangerous circumstances increases dramatically.”