And by

BAY CITY, MI -- A man who engaged in a standoff with police at his home in Bay City is confirmed dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, authorities said.

Police on Saturday, Feb. 20, identified the deceased as 38-year-old Leroi D. Kocsis.

The incident began shortly before noon on Friday, when Bay City officers attempted to serve a felony arrest warrant for Kocsis in the 600 block of North Sherman Street.

When approached by the officers, Kocsis fled into his home and opened fire on them, Bay City Police Chief Michael J. Cecchini said. One of the officers was grazed by a bullet in the back, police said.

The officer was taken to McLaren Bay Region hospital, where he was treated for non-life threatening injuries.

After the shooting took place, police erected a barricade around the house at 600 Sherman. Before 1 p.m., a Michigan State Police Emergency Support Team arrived on the scene.

A tense standoff continued through Friday night and into Saturday morning. Police were in contact with Kocsis by telephone but had lost contact with him early Saturday.

Reports that others were inside the house at the time of the incident were not true, meaning Kocsis was in the home alone, Cecchini said.

Police put North Sherman and Sheridan streets on lockdown from Center Avenue to Ninth Street. Streets in between were also blocked to traffic.

As police worked to negotiate for Kocsis to peacefully surrender, the man took to social media and garnered sympathy from several followers.

About 40 minutes after the shooting, he posted "I love everybody n my daughter n corrupt police have forced my hand."

Numerous friends replied to the status, offering thoughts and prayers, and expressing their love for him. They encouraged him to not "go out like this." Others have shared new statuses on his Facebook wall expressing similar sentiments. Some have posted comments with hashtags such as "#teamleroi," "#goleroi," and "#justice4leroi."

He later posted on his Facebook page: "Freedom of speech I want my story heard."

Kocsis in January was arraigned on two counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct with a relation between the ages of 13 and 16. The charge is punishable by up to life imprisonment.

An affidavit contained in court records signed by a Bay City Department of Public Safety detective states that a 14-year-old girl alleged Kocsis had intercourse with her in July 2012.

Friday's incident drew a crowd toward police barricades as the event unfolded.

Residents in the 600 block of North Sheridan Street, located on block to the east of North Sherman Street, were asked to leave their homes, according to multiple residents at the scene.

The Odles said Kocsis has lived in the home that abuts their backyard. Besides a minor neighbor dispute over the installation of a fence, they've never had any serious issues with Kocsis.

"I always thought he was a little off, because he had a gun tattooed on his chest, but we've never had any problems," Ruth Odle said. "I can't believe this. It's a safe neighborhood."

The woman was vacuuming her house when a neighbor called to alert her that shots were fired in the neighborhood.

"I didn't hear any gunshots," she said. "It's scary, because this doesn't happen in our neighborhood."

Daniel Curtis, who lives off Woodside Avenue, said "It's getting bad in Bay City."

"It's becoming like Flint and Saginaw. It's not good."

Others at the scene were defending Kocsis.

"He's a good guy," said Amber Hartman, who lives on North Sheridan Street and knew Kocsis through an ex-boyfriend. "A really good guy."

At nearby Immanuel Lutheran School, officials confirmed the school was in "secure the building" mode with about 100 students inside, who were later released. Bay City Academy, located at the intersection of Farragut and Ninth streets, also went into secure mode, said Brian Lynch, who runs the management company of the charter school. Students were required to be picked up by their parents, he said.

McLaren Bay Region hospital was in lockdown for about 2 1/2 hours until 3 p.m., said Magen Samyn, vice president of marketing and public relations.

Bay County Central Dispatch advised people in the neighborhood to stay inside.

The weather was unseasonably warm Friday as the situation unfolded. Many spectators at the scene wore blue jeans and sweatshirts as temperatures eclipsed 50 degrees.

As day became night, intense winds that had the potential to reach 50 mph started gusting across Bay City. The National Weather Service issued a wind advisory.

In the wake of the incident's resolution, state Rep. Charles M. Brunner, D-Bay City, issued the following statement:

"I am relieved to learn that the danger to our city has ended and that the active shooter situation has been resolved. Thank you to the Bay City Police Department and the Michigan State Police for handling the crisis in Bay City professionally and ensuring the safety of our residents. It is a tragedy that the suspect chose to take his own life and not face justice for his crimes.

"To the wounded officer, you have my utmost respect and I wish you a speedy recovery."

Friday's shooting comes a little more than a year after Bay City Public Safety Officer Brandon Murphy was shot in the line of duty, also on the city's East Side. Murphy fully recovered from the shooting.

"There has been too many police officer shootings in the past year," said Bay City Mayor Kathleen Newsham.

The mayor, who's husband is a retired police officer, said safety is the city's top priority and assured residents the city is safe.

"Our public safety officers do a great job," she said. "They are here to protect and serve. Because this is such a rare occurrence, I believe our department does a remarkable job at keeping our residents safe."