Denver police Tuesday released new details from a pair of botched burglaries followed by a carjacking, chase and shootout that left one suspect dead, led to the arrest of another and wounded an officer.

Gerardino Cayetano Gonzalez, 33, was pronounced dead at the scene after the incident, according to the Denver medical examiner’s office.

An autopsy revealed that Gonzalez died from multiple gunshot wounds. The matter of death was determined to be homicide, the release said.

Ronald Saunier, major crimes division commander, said Alfonso Padilla, 26, was arrested at the scene. Padilla has an extensive police record that includes arrests for assault, possession of burglary tools, vehicular eluding and probation violations, according to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.

Saunier provided a timeline for Monday’s incident, which left Officer Rachel Eid wounded. Eid, shot in the lower leg, was released from the hospital that night, Saunier said.

Two gunbattles between police and the suspect who died followed a burglary-in-progress call at 1:25 p.m. Monday from a homeowner at West 37th Avenue and Grove Street.

Police responded and fanned out through the area.

At 1:40 p.m., an officer “calls out that he has another potential burglary going on in the 1300 block of West 34th Avenue,” Saunier said.

Police found an unattended, running vehicle in an alley behind the home. Police converged and spotted two suspects who matched the description of those seen near the West 37th home. They arrested Padilla, but the second man ran toward West Moncrief Place.

Eid exchanged gunfire with the suspect at West Moncrief and Lowell Boulevard before she was shot, Saunier said. Another officer arrived, and additional gunshots were fired before the second suspect got away.

Near West 32nd Avenue and Lowell, the suspect pulled a woman from her vehicle and drove away. Additional shots were fired, Saunier said.

The suspect lost control of the vehicle when he turned the corner onto Lowell and hit a tree, Saunier said.

He again fired at police and was shot and killed.

Gonzalez has a lengthy arrest record, according to Colorado Bureau of Investigation records.

In 2001, he was sentenced to a year in prison for fraud and impersonation in a case investigated by Lakewood police. In 2004, Gonzalez was sentenced to four years in prison for a Denver assault case in which the victim was drugged. That same year, he was sentenced to four years in a Denver robbery.

Gonzalez was arrested in December by Denver police for failure to appear in court.

Police continue to investigate Monday’s incident and don’t know yet whether the two botched burglaries were connected.

The officers involved in the shooting will be placed on administrative leave pending completion of the investigation, a routine practice in officer-involved shootings, Saunier said.