AmCan man who killed himself Saturday identified

Police have identified the man who apparently killed himself after assaulting his wife on Saturday at his American Canyon residence.

Michael McClammey, 53, barricaded himself inside his garage in the 200 block of Folland Drive, threatening to end his life.

For more than two hours, police and a hostage negotiator talked to McClammey on his cell phone, trying to convince him to surrender.

McClammey told police he was going to fire a warning shot, said American Canyon Police Sgt. Mark Foster.

Within minutes, a gunshot was heard followed by another one about two minutes later.

Police and SWAT members entered the house and found McClammey on the garage floor with a .44-caliber handgun at his feet, Foster said.

Police Chief Doug Koford said the ordeal started with an argument between McClammey and his wife.

McClammey's wife told police he threw a potted plant at her, Koford said.

The victim and her daughter left the house and waited about a block away for police to arrive.

They told police that when they left, McClammey was ransacking the house looking for his handgun.

An autopsy is scheduled for this afternoon.

Patrol car rammed by stolen SUV

Two Napa men were arrested after leading officers on a chase through a Napa residential neighborhood in a stolen Ford Explorer on Sunday morning.

The driver of the SUV, Francisco Javier Deleon, 21, is also accused of intentionally ramming the SUV head on into a deputy's patrol car, said sheriff's Lt. Richard Hathaway.

The chain of events started when a Napa woman, who was driving on Soscol Avenue, spotted her stolen Explorer being driven on Trancas Street, Hathaway said.

She called police on her cell phone and began tailing her SUV. She was soon joined by a sheriff's deputy and a Napa police officer.

Deleon and his passenger Darrell James Hack-Rawdon, 26, of Napa, sped away. The pursuit started on north Jefferson Street, and wound through the residential streets of El Captain, Sierra and Willis Drive, police said.

On Rubicon Street, deputy Jim Wesner pulled his patrol car in front of the SUV and started to get out to make the arrest, Hathaway said.

At that point, Deleon allegedly rammed the SUV into the patrol car, he said. Deleon then allegedly backed the Explorer up, hitting a parked car.

The two men bailed from the stolen car, police said.

Police officer Terry Gonsalves chased after Hack-Rawdon, and deputy Wesner ran after Deleon. Both men were caught and taken into custody a short distance away.

Deleon was arrested on suspicion of felony assault with a deadly weapon, auto theft, possession of a stolen property, hit and run, and evading a police officer while driving in a reckless manner.

Hack-Rawdon was arrested on suspicion of felony auto theft, possession of stolen property and misdemeanor evading a police officer.

Domestic violence arrest

Martin Stanley Allen was arrested Saturday morning after allegedly choking his daughter and locking himself inside his house.

Allen was arrested on suspicion of felony domestic battery and terrorist threats.

Around 11: 30 a.m., American Canyon officers responded to an argument in the 200 block of Andrews Road.

Allen had barricaded himself inside the house. The victim and her mother told police Allen, who was extremely agitated, was inside the house with several firearms, chief Doug Koford said.

Police called in a hostage negotiator, who after talking to Allen for about 45 minutes, was able to convince him to turn himself in, Koford said.

His wife told police she and suspect were arguing and when their daughter tried to intervene, Allen allegedly struck and choked her, Koford said.

Marsha Dorgan can be reached at 256-2214 or mdorgan@napanews.com