Grand Jury Process

Except for witnesses and court/law enforcement personnel, no other individuals are allowed to be present during the grand jury’s investigation or deliberations.

A special prosecutor (appointed by the judge) acts as the legal advisor and interrogates all witnesses who appear before the grand jury.

Each juror has the right to question witnesses and may request that additional witnesses be called to appear before the grand jury for interrogation. Grand jurors also have the right to request specific documents or other evidence that might be helpful to an investigation.

During proceedings, grand jurors act as investigators of possible criminal conduct and act as judges in determining whether there is adequate evidence to charge individuals with criminal conduct.

The obligation of secrecy requires that grand jurors not repeat, discuss or disclose the nature, content or result of their investigation and deliberation. They must not discuss any evidence, discussions, deliberations, opinions or statements made during the course of the grand jury proceedings with anyone during the process or at any time in the future, unless called upon to do so in a court of law.

They may not disclose or testify in court as to how they or any other member of the grand jury voted on any questions presented to them, or what opinions were expressed by any juror in their deliberations or investigation.

Additionally, jurors are not allowed to disclose that an indictment has been found against a person until that person is in custody, is released under bail, or until the indictment is officially filed in the office of the clerk of the court.

It is the foreperson’s job to see that proceedings are fairly conducted and that each member has a chance to question any witness, and to speak fully and freely on the issues in the case.

A grand jury is not mandated to reach a decision within a set time period, nor are they mandated to be sequestered. If jurors separate, they must abide by their oath of secrecy and not discuss the case with anyone, even with each other.

In Custody Death

A grand jury must be called when an individual dies while being apprehended by law enforcement or while in the custody of detention personnel. In these cases, the purpose of a grand jury is to investigate the death to determine if formal charges should be made against any person for committing a crime in connection with the death.

Jurors consider the following:

· The cause of death.

· Whether there was any criminal conduct by any individual that caused or contributed to the death.

Grand juries may also make findings or recommendations which suggest that policies or procedures involved with the death be changed, or that new policies or procedures be instituted.