Christopher Davis (left) was shot and killed Feb. 24 by Walworth County Sheriff's Deputy Juan Ortiz (right) during what authorities have called a drug investigation. Credit: Journal Sentinel files

By of the

Elkhorn — The Walworth County district attorney informed the family of 21-year-old Christopher Davis on Tuesday that a sheriff's deputy would not be charged in his fatal shooting, according to the family's attorney.

District Attorney Daniel A. Necci met with the family at the courthouse in Elkhorn.

Davis, 21, of Milwaukee, was fatally shot by Walworth County Sheriff's Deputy Juan Ortiz on Feb. 24 while sitting in the front passenger seat of a Pontiac Bonneville in the parking lot of Roma's Ristorante and Lounge in the Town of East Troy.

According to the investigative report by the state Department of Justice, Ortiz fired at the car as the driver attempted to flee a staged drug purchase and sped in the direction of officers.

"I believe that Deputy Ortiz's actions were privileged as acts of defense of himself or others," Necci wrote in a letter to Sheriff Kurt Picknell.

"I believe that there is no other logical conclusion that can be drawn from the evidence other than that Deputy Ortiz was attempting to prevent himself from being attacked with potentially deadly force and, therefore, Deputy Ortiz was justified in using deadly force in response," Necci wrote.

No video footage of the shooting was recorded, Neeci said Tuesday.

On the day of the shooting, Ortiz was assisting Village of East Troy police in the drug investigation, which included a planned undercover cocaine purchase in the restaurant parking lot.

According to the investigative report, Roberto Juarez Nieves told authorities that he, Davis and driver Jose Lara planned to exchange drugs in the parking lot on the afternoon of Feb. 24.

Ortiz, along with East Troy police officers Craig Knox and Jeff Price and Walworth County sheriff's Deputy Matthew Weber, were dispatched to the restaurant on a tip that Juarez Nieves planned to facilitate a drug deal.

Seeing squad cars, Juarez Nieves told Lara to leave the scene because Juarez Nieves was on probation for cocaine possession.

The car drove in reverse toward Knox, forward toward Price and then toward Ortiz. All pointed their guns, but only Ortiz fired, according to the report.

A police chase reaching speeds upward of 100 mph ensued, entering Waukesha County and ending with a crash with a Walworth County squad car near Durham Place and Hidden Creek Drive in Muskego.

Lara and Juarez Nieves ran from the car and were later taken into custody. Davis was taken to Froedtert Hospital in Wauwatosa, where he died. The Waukesha County medical examiner's office found that Davis died from a gunshot wound to the head.

For the Davis family and its supporters, the meeting with the district attorney ended months of waiting for the details of what led up to his death.

Davis had graduated from Hamilton High School in Milwaukee and had overcome scoliosis. He was engaged to be married.

Maria Hamilton, whose son Dontre Hamilton was shot and killed by a Milwaukee police officer in 2014, said from Elkhorn that she may bring up the Davis case as well as that of Jay Anderson, who was shot and killed by a Wauwatosa police officer last month, when she speaks at the Democratic National Convention next week.

"Once again, we have two families who are brokenhearted," she said.

Dontre Hamilton, 31, was killed April 30, 2014, in Red Arrow Park by then-Milwaukee police officer Christopher Manney. Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn fired Manney for his actions leading up to the shooting, but not for his use of force. Manney later received approval for duty disability retirement.

In the Davis case, Ortiz had been placed on administrative duty following the incident and has now been restored to full duty.

Lara, 31, was charged with conspiracy to manufacture or deliver cocaine and attempting to flee or elude an officer. Juarez Nieves has not been charged.

Hannah Schwarz reported from Elkhorn and Jessie Bekker reported from Milwaukee.