Marcella Corona

mcorona@rgj.com

11:09 a.m. Tuesday update:

Authorities were still investigating an officer-involved shooting that killed an alleged Sparks carjacker and hurt a Lyon County deputy and another suspect.

Sparks police released more details on the carjacking that ended with the shooting at the Nugget Casino in Silver Springs.

The carjacking occurred at about 8:30 p.m. on Thursday in the 1000 block of El Rancho Drive in Sparks. A man was heading to an apartment in the area when four men robbed him at gunpoint and fled in his car, Sgt. John Patton said Monday.

Patton said the shooting suspects are not the same suspects involved in an earlier carjacking reported on Wednesday. In that earlier carjacking incident, a woman had reported to police that she had exited her car after another car hit her. When she turned around, she found a man sitting inside going through her wallet and demanding money. He then gave her back her wallet and sped off in her car.

Patton said that carjacking was a separate incident.

The Nevada Department of Public Safety Investigation Division were still investigating the shooting as of Tuesday.

10:35 a.m. Monday update:

The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office identified the man who was shot and killed by a deputy in an officer-involved shooting in Silver Springs that stemmed from a Sparks carjacking.

Tristan Conti, 19, of Reno, was killed during an exchange in gunshots Thursday night. The deputy was taken to Renown Regional Medical Center and was released Friday morning after he was shot on his left hand, authorities said in a news release.

A second juvenile suspect, whose name was not immediately released, was hurt in the shooting and was flown to Renown, where he underwent surgery Friday. He was later taken to a juvenile justice center in the area. Two other juveniles involved were taken to Jan Evans Juvenile Justice Center. Their names were also not released.

The shooting stemmed from a reported carjacking in Sparks, Lyon County Sheriff's administration director Michael Carlson said.

Deputies were notified at about 8:30 p.m. Thursday by Sparks police officers of a stolen vehicle involving a firearm in the Sparks area.

Sparks police believed the four suspects involved were heading toward Yerington, Carlson said.

The stolen vehicle was spotted at about 10 p.m. by a Lyon County deputy at the Nugget Casino parking lot, 1280 Lincoln Highway in Silver Springs.

“The deputy pulled up on the vehicle and requested backup,” authorities said in a news release Friday. “Within seconds after his radio transmission, the deputy was fired upon by one of the suspects in the stolen vehicle.”

“I don’t want to see overreaction in our citizens from this event.' - Lyon County Sheriff Al McNeil

The deputy fired back at the shooting suspect, who was armed with a handgun, Carlson said. Conti died at the scene and a second suspect was hurt.

“Despite his own injuries, the deputy immediately rendered first aid to the wounded second suspect until EMS arrived on scene,” authorities said the news release.

Meanwhile, the remaining two suspects "took off into a field in Silver Springs on the west end of town," Carlson said. Deputies found them trying to flag down a passing vehicle, authorities said.

The shooting was considered an isolated incident and not a developing threat to the community, Lyon County Sheriff Al McNeil said in a statement Friday.

“I don’t want to see overreaction in our citizens from this event,” McNeil said in the statement.

“The actions of the deputy involved were of the highest standards and expectations of this agency,” he stated. “All of us at the Lyon County Sheriff’s Office wish him a speedy recovery.”

The deputy was expected to recover in about six weeks, Carlson said on Friday. He was placed on administrative leave pending an investigation.

Sparks police detectives said they believe the shooting suspects were also involved an incident, where a woman's car was hit and then hijacked Wednesday afternoon. The woman had exited her car to check the damage. When she turned around, she found a man in her car demanding money and going through her wallet, which she had left inside the car.

The man then gave her wallet back and fled in the woman’s car. Details on the connection made between the officer-involved shooting, the Sparks carjacking Thursday night and the previous carjacking that was reported Wednesday afternoon were not immediately known.

The Nevada Department of Public Safety Investigation Division was handling the case involving the shooting. The Washoe County Sheriff's Forensic Investigation Section was working the crime scene and collecting evidence. Meanwhile, the Carson City Sheriff's Office was also helping in the investigation with Conti’s autopsy.

It was not known on how many shots were fired or where the suspects were shot.

Check with RGJ for more updates as they become available.

Marcella Corona covers breaking news for the Reno Gazette-Journal. Contact her at 775-788-6340, online at mcorona@rgj.com or follow her on Twitter at @Marcella_Anahi or on Facebook at Facebook.com/Marcella.Anahi