Washington State Patrol detectives examine the scene of a shooting in Belfair on Friday. The Mason County Coroner identified some of the victims on Saturday. (LARRY STEAGALL / KITSAP SUN)

By Ed Friedrich

BELFAIR — A former employee of a man believed to have killed four people and himself Friday in remote Mason County described him as volatile.

Joe Gallegos of East Bremerton said he took out a restraining order against David Wayne Campbell in July after Campbell pulled a pistol on him during an argument.

The Mason County Coroner's Office identified Campbell, 51, as the man who shot himself in the presence of law enforcement after an hourslong standoff with a SWAT team from the Mason County Sheriff's Office.

Three of the dead found in an outbuilding on the property were identified as Campbell's wife, Lana J. Carlson, 49, and her children Quinn Carlson, 16, and Tory Carlson, 18. A female neighbor who was found shot at the home has not yet been identified because next of kin hasn't been notified.

A 12-year-old daughter escaped the incident just as police arrived, according to deputies. They used an armored vehicle to pick her up and bring her safely past the home. She left the scene in an ambulance. Deputies said she was not shot and did not have life-threatening injuries.

Gallegos, 49, said he worked for Campbell Family Heating and Cooling from October 2014 to July 2015. In July, he and Campbell got in an argument in Gallegos' driveway.

"He pulled a pistol out on me and told me he could kill me any time he wanted to," Gallegos said.

On Friday morning, Campbell called a sheriff's office supervisor he had previous contact with and told him he had killed family members and was suicidal, Chief Deputy Ryan Spurling said. Deputies responded to the home in the 300 block of Horseshoe Drive. Negotiators tried for 3 1/2 hours to persuade Campbell to surrender, but "it became evident that the suspect was not going to leave the residence voluntarily," the sheriff's office said.

Deputies could see him pacing inside, often holding a handgun to his head. After they shot tear gas into the house, Campbell came outside with a gun in his hand and yelled at them. He returned indoors before coming out once more, just after 12:30 p.m., putting the gun to his temple and firing as police watched.

Authorities said they found the four other bodies in a chicken coop.

Campbell and Carlson were married in November 2009, King County records show. She had been a stay-at-home mom, home-schooled all of the children. She was planning to operate a food truck and had registered a business called Crispy Edges. She had been fixing up the truck, but hadn't secured the county permits needed to operate it.

Adeline Peebles, a family friend who lived up the street from where the family lived, would often come over for dinner and to taste Carlson's ideas for the truck. She said the children were all adopted during Carlson's previous marriage. The boys came from Russia and the girl from China.

Peebles said Tory Carlson was a student at Olympic College.

He was "a great kid who never talked back and always worked hard," she said.

Olympic College reported Sunday that Tory was in his second year at the college and on track to graduate from the Culinary Arts program this spring. The college is providing counseling and support to Tory's teachers and classmates.

"Tory was passionate about the culinary field and had plans to partner with his mom to operate a food truck," said Culinary Arts Professor Christopher Plemmons. "He was a very kind student. He cared about his classmates and his classmates cared about him."

Peebles said she had been with the family the night before and that she visited the family often on weekends and the holidays, even moving to the area to be closer to them.

"I can't believe this," she said, while visiting the scene of the shooting on Friday.

The scene, near the end of 2.5 miles of dirt roads, was quiet Saturday morning except for dogs barking, roosters crowing and ducks squawking. A Mason County Animal Control pickup was the only official vehicle on site. Yellow crime scene tape remained around the wooded property. Family members moved about the old green mobile home. Three family members who walked toward the home "to square things away" declined to talk.

The Mason County Coroner's Office will begin to conduct autopsies Monday in Kitsap County, Spurling said. Several agencies participated in the response. They'll meet Monday and pool their information to try to determine what led to the incident.

"The investigation is going on," Spurling said. "We may never know the details and motive because (the 12-year-old girl) is the only surviving person. She may or may never be able to describe what happened."

Investigators are discovering that Campbell had a checkered past.

"This was an evil person with an extensive criminal history," Spurling said. "There are things that will come out that will shock everybody."