Following the shooting death of man in Winchester in February, Virginia State Police released the findings of their investigation into how he died.

In a release sent WHSV Friday afternoon, Corinne N. Geller, VSP Public Relations Director, explained:

The Virginia State Police will be presenting its investigative findings into the death of D’Londre T. Minifield to the City of Winchester Commonwealth’s Attorney the first of next week. The Virginia State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation’s Culpeper Field Office has concluded its investigation, which was initiated in late February at the request of the City of Winchester Police Chief Kevin Sanzenbacher. The Commonwealth’s Attorney will then make the final review and adjudication of the incident.

Virginia State Police investigators met with Minifield’s family Friday morning (May 13) to inform them that the investigation has concluded and the findings will be turned over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney. State Police met with the command staff of the Winchester Police Department Friday afternoon to advise them, as well.

On Feb. 28, 2016, at approximately 4:05 p.m., the City of Winchester Police Department received a report of a fight in progress with the possible involvement of a firearm. Officers responded to the 2200 block of Roosevelt Boulevard. Upon arriving in the area, officers made contact with two male individuals. One of the individuals, Minifield, fled on foot and officers pursued. During the foot pursuit, Minifield stumbled and fell to the ground. As the officers approached him, he produced a .38-caliber revolver and fired one round. Minifield, 20, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The revolver was recovered at the scene.

As previously reported, none of the Winchester Police officers discharged a firearm during the incident. One officer deployed a Taser, which only came into contact with the jacket Minifield was wearing.

The Office of the Medical Examiner in Manassas has concluded Minifield’s manner of death as a suicide, with the cause of death resulting from a gunshot wound to the head.

This is a story WHSV has been following since March when protests shut down several city streets. In the days following the shooting, neither the family, nor the protesters, believed the officers' story.