LIVERMORE — A 66-year-old Livermore man sitting inside a car outside the Livermore Police Department died from a self-inflicted gunshot in an incident early Thursday that caused an officer to shoot at the car, police said.

The officer fired his gun four times after arriving to the back parking lot of the station on Pacific Avenue around 3 a.m. after hearing a shotgun blast that shattered the car’s glass, Livermore police Officer Art Rosas said. Only when the scene quieted down were officers able to see the man inside.

Rosas said officers responded at 1 a.m. to a report that a suicidal man was missing and had left a suicide note. The primary officer on the call returned to the department around 3 a.m. after a fruitless search and saw the man in the back seat of the car. As the officer approached the vehicle, he saw the shotgun, Rosas said.

A second officer arrived as the first officer moved toward the car and heard a shotgun blast and glass shattering, Rosas said. That officer fired four times, Rosas said.

“He believed the other officer was under fire,” Rosas said. “He also thought there was a threat to public safety, because there are several apartments in that area.”

Moments after the gunshots, officers called out to the car but heard nothing back, Rosas said. The two officers then approached the car and discovered the man dead inside.

Both officers were placed on paid administrative leave, per department policy. They were not identified, and police did not say how long they’ve been with the department.

The No. 1 cause for suicide is untreated depression, a condition that is treatable with immediate help, authorities said.

“If you’re in that place, take advantage of the suicide hotline,” Rosas said. “If it’s a family member or friend and you’re seeing signs that person is suicidal, don’t hesitate to call 911. There are resources to help.”

Anyone who may be suicidal can receive immediate help by logging onto Suicide.org or by calling 800-784-2433. Crisis experts also are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week in Alameda County by calling 800-309-2131 or in Contra Costa County by calling 800-833-2900 or 925-938-0725.

Contact Rick Hurd at 925-945-4789 and follow him at Twitter.com/3rderh