Investigation led police to close stretch of Highway 291 for much of afternoon

Liberty police say a man has been found dead inside a home that was the scene of a standoff Monday.Police said they went to a home on Leonard Street after the call came in from a woman who needed help with her adult son, a man in his 50s.Investigators said officers were in the home with the man's family members when they heard a single gunshot.Police shut down Highway 291 between Highway 33 and Skyline Drive and tried to get the man to come out..The Liberty School District made some special arrangements to keep kids safe as the standoff went on.Early Monday evening, police sent a robot and SWAT team into the home and said the man was dead inside. They said they believe he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, but they plan to investigate. His name has not been released.The standoff and road closure made it hard for some people who live in the area to get to their homes."Just been waiting here for the last, seems like two hours now," said resident Dan Thomas. "Just haven't been able to get in."The road reopened just after 7 p.m."It wasn't this bad earlier because it wasn't quite rush hour yet," Thomas said. "I was trying to get through and just had to pull over and wait it out."

Liberty police say a man has been found dead inside a home that was the scene of a standoff Monday.

Police said they went to a home on Leonard Street after the call came in from a woman who needed help with her adult son, a man in his 50s.



Advertisement

Investigators said officers were in the home with the man's family members when they heard a single gunshot.

Police shut down Highway 291 between Highway 33 and Skyline Drive and tried to get the man to come out..



The Liberty School District made some special arrangements to keep kids safe as the standoff went on.

Early Monday evening, police sent a robot and SWAT team into the home and said the man was dead inside. They said they believe he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, but they plan to investigate. His name has not been released.

The standoff and road closure made it hard for some people who live in the area to get to their homes.

"Just been waiting here for the last, seems like two hours now," said resident Dan Thomas. "Just haven't been able to get in."

The road reopened just after 7 p.m.

"It wasn't this bad earlier because it wasn't quite rush hour yet," Thomas said. "I was trying to get through and just had to pull over and wait it out."