TAMPA — Jeff Casale's roommate heard him raving about people chasing him, trying to break into their apartment. There's no one coming for you, John Martin tried to assure him on Tuesday.

Casale's delusions, though, never subsided. So Martin asked a friend to pick him up, hoping Casale would calm down if he left.

"I think he's had mental problems," Martin said, "and he just went off the deep end."

Jeffery Glen Casale, 27, was fatally shot Tuesday night in a confrontation with four Hillsborough sheriff's deputies.

Not long after Martin left, someone called 911 and reported that a man was screaming and waving a gun outside Windwood Oaks Apartments on Florida Avenue, south of Bearss Avenue. Deputies arrived about 10:45 p.m.

They found Casale "extremely agitated," according to the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office, brandishing what appeared to be a semiautomatic pistol. One deputy, trained in crisis intervention, tried to persuade Casale to drop the weapon.

Casale refused. Later, the deputies said he charged at them. The four deputies fired, wounding Casale. He died early Wednesday morning at a local hospital.

The weapon Casale was holding when he was shot turned out to be a Colt Defender .177-caliber CO2 air pistol, not a real handgun.

"They had no option but to fire," Hillsborough sheriff's Col. Greg Brown said.

• • •

Martin, 65, said Casale was a U.S. Marine Corps veteran. He suffered an injury to one of his feet while serving in Afghanistan. The Tampa Bay Times could not confirm Casale's military service.

Casale couldn't walk very well and didn't have a job, Martin said. He met Casale about four years ago while the two were living at Rocky Creek Village, an assisted living facility in Tampa. He described Casale as a loner who rarely left his bedroom.

Casale appears to have no criminal record in Florida. But on Jan. 12, 2014, he was detained for mental evaluation under the state's Baker Act, according to a Tampa police report.

He was taken to Tampa General Hospital, where an officer said Casale told him he moved here from Nebraska and "tried to commit suicide by cop in the past." That describes when someone tries to provoke officers into using lethal force against them.

The report said that an "extremely agitated" Casale ended up in a struggle with about 10 hospital security guards and police officers before he was restrained. Afterward, the officer noted that Casale knew a lot about firearms and eyed the officer's gun.

Casale's father, Thomas Casale, is a medical doctor and professor at the University of South Florida. He told police during the 2014 incident that his son had struggled with mental health problems for about 10 years.

The father did not return messages left Wednesday. A woman who answered the phone at a number listed for Jeffrey Casale's mother declined to comment.

Casale's Facebook profile states that he attended USF, but the university said it had no record of him as a student at the Tampa campus.

Keep up with Tampa Bay’s top headlines Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter We’ll deliver the latest news and information you need to know every morning. Loading... You’re all signed up! Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Explore all your options

He also wrote that he worked at Shooter's World gun range in Tampa.

That's not true, said Bruce Kitzis, the store's general manager.

"He was never employed here," Kitzis said. "Maybe he wanted to be."

Kitzis also said Casale never bought any firearms from the store.

• • •

Karen Johnston, 56, said she was standing outside her apartment Tuesday night when Casale opened the door of a first-floor apartment in a nearby building.

"He was yelling, 'Somebody's trying to get into my apartment,' " she said. "I told him, 'Nobody's coming in, I'm standing here the whole time.' "

Casale leveled what appeared to be a gun at her, she said. She backed away. He then apologized and went inside.

"He went nuts," she said when deputies arrived. Casale yelled to the deputies that he was an ex-Marine with a 9mm pistol and explosives, she said.

"The police said, 'Nobody's here to hurt you, just come out and talk to us,' " Johnston said. "He said …''I'm dying tonight. That's the end of it. I want to feel the cold metal go into my head.' "

Casale went inside, then came out again, she said. Deputies yelled for him to put the gun down. Gunfire erupted.

The deputies involved in the shooting were identified as Danny Goff, 24; Christian Hermecz, 41; Justin Pass, 28; and Tyler Wilson, 27. All were placed on administrative leave, which is routine for officer-involved shootings, pending the outcome of an investigation.

"They defended themselves," Johnston said, choking back tears. "It's what he wanted. The man had clearly decided yesterday would be his last day here."

Times senior news researcher Caryn Baird and staff writer Zachary T. Sampson contributed to this report, which includes information from WTSP 10News. Contact Tony Marrero at tmarrero@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes.