A man shot and killed in an officer-involved shooting near the Lemmon Drive underpass along 395 in Reno Thursday night has been identified.

Sparks police, who are leading the continuing investigation, say shortly after 8PM March 10, 2016, 22-year-old Arteair Porter called 911 claiming that his child died, he was armed with a gun and he wanted to shoot someone. Police say they were able to track Porter by his cell phone in the area of the Amazon warehouse at 8000 North Virginia Street, and Reno Police officers and Washoe County Sheriff’s deputies responded to search for the man. A RAVEN helicopter was also used in the search, and one Sparks Police officer responded as backup.

Police say about 45 minutes later, Porter told dispatchers he was armed with a shotgun and was going to shoot the next car he saw. He then approached officers and deputies at Lemmon Drive and North Virginia Street in the presence of a SWAT vehicle and numerous marked patrol cars. The officers and deputies began talking to Porter, who had a long gun with him, trying to calm him down. Police later determined the weapon was an air gun.

Police say Porter moved his weapon from hand to hand on multiple occasions during the conversation. About 9:37PM, after 15 minutes of negotiations, he pointed the gun at police, who shot him. He was taken to Renown Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

Porter had a record, including unlawful use of emergency phone number from 2013, destruction of property from 2014 and possession of drug paraphernalia from 2015.

Police have not confirmed whether he lost a child.

The initial information is that seven members of law enforcement fired their weapons: one officer from SPD, 3 deputies from WCSO and 3 officers from RPD.

The Regional Officer-Involved Shooting Protocol was initiated, with Sparks Police taking the investigation lead, since Reno and Washoe County were the primary supervisory agencies involved in the incident. The Washoe County District Attorney's Office gave permission for Sparks to run the investigation, even though a Sparks officer fired one of the shots.

The officers involved in the shooting are on administrative leave. The case will be turned over to the District Attorney's Office for review.

Autoplay Caption