GREENSBORO — A fatal shooting involving police last month started with an argument between a father and daughter over a dog collar.

The shooting left the widow and neighbors asking why police fired more than 100 shots into a home.

On Friday, Greensboro Police Chief Wayne Scott detailed in an afternoon press conference what led up to Christopher Michael Tokazowski’s March 11 death from a single gunshot to his left arm.

Dawn Tokazowski last saw her husband alive earlier that day at their home at 1606 Efland Drive. An argument over a dog collar between Christopher Tokazowski, who was 43 at the time, and one of the couple’s two teenage daughters set off a chain reaction of events that ended with him dead.

“I loved him so much,” Tokazowski said of her husband of almost 19 years. “I relied on him so much.”

The afternoon of the shooting, one of her daughters called Dawn Tokazowski at work to tell her about the argument. About 4 p.m., the daughter called police, saying her father had grown belligerent with her.

Police arrived at the home a short time later and saw Tokazowski with a shotgun and handgun, Scott said. The officers did not feel he was a threat, and let him leave the home. Officers let Dawn Tokazowski and her daughters get some items from the home so they could spend the night elsewhere.

“He said, ‘You believe our daughters over 18 years of marriage’ before he left the house,” she said.

Dawn Tokazowski said her husband was diagnosed with bipolar disorder nine years ago and ADD seven years ago and had some issues at home in the past.

After the argument on March 11, she immediately went and filed involuntary commitment papers on her husband.

It wasn’t the first time police were called to the home. They responded there for domestic calls on Aug. 13 and Oct. 13, 2013 and a disorderly call on Oct. 30, 2015, said police spokeswoman Susan Danielsen.

On Oct. 6, 2014, police served involuntary commitment papers on Christopher Tokazowski and removed some weapons from the home. He later got the weapons back after passing a medical clearance, Scott said.

Scott said at least one of the weapons was one of the four guns Tokazowski had inside the home on March 11.

The night of the shooting, officers returned to Efland Drive about 6:45 p.m. to serve Tokazowski with the involuntary commitment papers. He wasn’t there.

Scott said the officers searched the neighborhood for him but didn’t find him.

They got a call about 9:30 p.m. from Corinne Grant, who was sitting on her porch at 1607 Efland Drive with her husband, saying Christopher Tokazowski had returned home. When police arrived with the papers, he spoke with them through the open kitchen window and refused to come out. At one point, he told the officers he was armed with a 12 gauge shotgun.

Grant said she heard the click clack of Tokazowski loading a live round into the chamber of the shotgun.

“If I knew they were going to kill him, I would’ve never called them,” she said in an interview with the News & Record.

The Special Response and Hostage Negotiation teams were called to the house about 10:20 p.m., Scott said. Tokazowski was upset that officers were surrounding his home and called Guilford Metro 911 about 11 p.m. Scott said he told the dispatcher the police were harassing him and he was about to go outside and confront them.

“He came out the side door with the laser on his shotgun pointed at the officers,” Scott said. “They perceived that as a threat and fired at him.

“He hopped back in the house and a second later came back out the side door and fired one shot before the officers fired again.”

In the shooting, officers shot out lights around the house and the rear tires of Tokazowski’s Jeep Wrangler, which was in the driveway. Scott described those as tactical moves to prevent Tokazowski from trying to escape.

Scott said a preliminary report proved the officers acted well within police policies. All eight had been placed on administrative duty during the investigation. Police identified the officers involved as: Officer R.G. Ector, who has been with the department 10 years; Officer J.E. Chasten, six years; Officer C.B. Cline, seven years; Officer A. Mendez, 11 years; Officer W.Z. White, five years; Cpl. M.R. McPhatter, eight years; Cpl. A.M. Deal, 11 years; and Cpl. M.P. Brown, 16 years.

They will all return to full duty within a week, Scott said.

He said the State Bureau of Investigation is still preparing its full report to present to Guilford County District Attorney Doug Henderson. He said it could take several weeks before the SBI finishes its report.

“Some of the officers involved say they fired the first time he came out of the side door and others say they fired the second time he came out,” Scott said, adding that all but one of the officers involved were on the Special Response Team.

Before the shots were fired, Dawn Tokazowski said police asked what would calm her husband down. She said she didn’t recall what she told police. She was with police at nearby Irving Park United Methodist Church, where people evacuated from the block were taken, when she heard the shots.

“It sounded like fireworks,” she said. “My neighbor said she heard him die.”

Tokazowski’s 6-year-old Rottweiler, Katara, was inside during the shooting. She was not injured.

Grant said she saw everything unfold from her front porch.

After the barrage of shots, she said Tokazowski started yelling he was shot.

“He was yelling ‘I’m hurt,’ ” she said. “They left him there to bleed to death.”

Tokazowski spoke with negotiators over the phone and told them he had been shot in the arm. Negotiators urged him to come out of the home to receive medical attention before losing contact with him at 11:47 p.m.

“Part of the discussion was him asking if we could come in,” Scott said. “Given his behavior, we couldn’t risk sending an officer in.”

Instead, they sent in a bomb squad robot, which showed images of Tokazowski lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen. Officers rushed into the home and a police medic pronounced him dead at 1:33 a.m., March 12, Scott said.

Along with the tactical shotgun with the laser sight and flashlight, Scott said they found a semi-automatic handgun, a revolver and an assault rifle. He said the shotgun was found near Tokazowski’s body on the kitchen floor. Police also found an unopened gun vault inside the home.

A day before police would detail the events of the March 11 shooting, Dawn Tokazowski stood in the front yard of her bullet-riddled home opening mail. She began to cry when she opened an envelope that included an eviction notice that said she has until April 30 to be out of the rental property.

Signs of the shootout remain, from a boarded up front door to light shining through several bullet holes around the home. Dawn Tokazowski points out where bullets struck appliances and light fixtures. Gaping holes in the cabinets and walls show where bullets burst through the brick walls.

On the counter sits a black canvas bag, just feet from where police found Christopher Tokazowski’s body. Inside the bag are his cremated remains.

Dawn Tokazowski said she isn’t mad with the police, but is shocked over what happened.

“I just can’t believe it,” she said. “It’s just unreal. I can’t believe it happened.”