A 6abc Action News viewer captured the moments leading up to a shootout in Chester that left an officer critical and one of three suspects dead.

Delco Medical Examiner IDs suspect killed in shootout with police in Chester

CHESTER, Pa. (WPVI) -- The Delaware County Medical Examiner has released the name of the suspect killed in a shootout with Chester police that also left a police captain injured.

The medical examiner released the name of the suspect Tuesday, identifying him as 24-year-old Keith Montgomery, Jr.

Montgomery's death stemmed from a chain of events that began when police stopped a suspected stolen car on Saturday afternoon near the intersection of Parker and Union streets. That then turned into a chase that ended in a shootout.

"The persons within the vehicle were uncooperative with police. Then there was an exchange of gunfire," said Chester Police Chief James Nolan. "To our understanding, someone in the car began shooting at police. Police returned fire."

When it was over, Montgomery was dead, another suspect was critically wounded, and Chester Police Captain Alan Davis lay injured, with a gunshot wound to the shoulder.

A third suspect, who was not injured, was into police custody.

In a news conference Sunday morning, Chester Mayor Thaddeus Kirkland praised the restraint exercised by police during the incident.

Kirkland and other officials declined to release new details, but stressed a full investigation is underway.

PHOTOS: Officer wounded, suspect killed in Chester shootout

In the hours after the Saturday afternoon shooting, the mood in the neighborhood where it happened gradually turned from concern to anger.

Some residents told Action News they believe police fired first.

Neighbors gathered after dark for a vigil to pray for the victims and their families as investigators processed the crime scene nearby.

The event began peacefully, but soon tempers flared, and a scuffle broke out between those gathered and police.

Video captured an object being thrown at police, who in turn pepper sprayed the crowd.

Kirkland told reporters on Sunday that the city's deputy police commissioner was hit by a brick during the scuffle.

Many ran from the scene, their eyes burning.

"It's a little bit of hatred and we have to get past that," said Hyreem Bradley, who was there.

As the bullet-ridden car was towed away from the crime scene, many said questions remain about what happened.