Three Chicago police officers were recovering from wounds Tuesday morning after an exchange of gunfire with a suspect who was shot dead during a chase through a dimly lit courtyard in the Homan Square neighborhood on the West Side, authorities said.



The shootout occurred about 9:40 p.m. Monday as the officers were investigating "possible narcotics activity" in the 3700 block of West Polk Street, police said in a statement. They approached Lamar Harris, 29, who took off running and then turned and fired, hitting one officer in the back, another in the foot and the third officer in the chest, possibly in his bulletproof vest, police said.



At least one of the officers returned fire and killed Harris, Sgt. Al Stinites said at the scene late Monday.



The officers, all veterans with about 10 to 12 years on the police force, were rushed to Stroger Hospital and were expected to survive, authorities said. One of the officers was in serious-to-critical condition late Monday, a source said.

Responding officers used first aid kits to treat the officers until ambulances arrived, the department said. The officers had been trained under a medical and rescue training program,'

Advertisement

The Harrison District tactical officers had been responding to complaints about narcotics in the area when they saw Harris and a woman "going through the courtyard that they had under investigation," interim police Superintendent John Escalante said outside Stroger.



The officers approached to talk to them and announced they were police officers, Escalante said. That's when Harris ran away.



"Officers gave chase and followed one of the offenders into a dark gangway between two buildings. At some point, the offender fired shots at pursuing officers, striking three," Stinites said. One of the officers managed to fire back, he said.

"Shots fired, squad, shots fired at the police and by the police, squad," an officer radioed from the scene. "Squad, we're on Polk, Polk and Arthington."



Seconds later, an officer breathing heavily radioed, "I think I have an officer shot squad, officer shot."



The transmission is followed immediately with, "We need an ambulance, offender's down, weapon's recovered, I have possibly two officers shot."



A few minutes later, the dispatcher is told three officers have been shot.



State police shut down the Eisenhower Expressway east from Independence Boulevard as the officers were taken to Stroger. Damen Avenue also was closed to clear the way for ambulances just as the United Center was emptying of Blackhawks fans.



A young officer on the street made the sign of the cross as ambulance No. 23, the second to arrive, passed over the bridge on Damen and pulled into the bay at Stroger.



Dozens of officers stood under the awning of emergency bay No. 3 as the first ambulance was unloaded. The officer was in uniform and sitting up, talking to the people who were carrying him. Every few minutes, sirens would pierce the otherwise quiet area.



Each ambulance arrived at Stroger to a few dozen officers waiting at the door to the emergency room. When the third ambulance was unloaded, officers stood for a moment before fanning out and clearing the parking lot of those watching.



Escalante said Mayor Rahm Emanuel visited the officers Monday night.



"The mayor was here as well and he also spoke to all three officers as well as their families," Escalante said. "I want to thank Chicago Fire Department paramedics for their quick response in getting our officers here safely, as well as a thanks to the state police for helping as the ambulances went down the Eisenhower Expressway. Again, a thanks to the staff here at County Hospital for taking care of our injured officers."



Emanuel released a statement, saying that "every day (officers) put themselves in danger so the rest of us can be safe."



"Tonight we were reminded of the dangers that our police face, and the bravery that they routinely display as three of our officers were shot in line of duty," Emanuel said in the statement. "The thoughts and prayers of our entire city are with the officers and their families during this difficult time."

Advertisement

Escalante said a gun was recovered from the man who died, and the woman was taken into custody.



The officers involved in the shootout were placed on administrative duties for 30 days, a policy implemented after police shot and killed Quintonio LeGrier, 19, and Bettie Jones, 55, a downstairs neighbor, on the West Side on Dec. 26.



Monday's shooting is the first of a Chicago police officer since November 2014, when off-duty cop Samella Ramirez was shot by her ex-boyfriend in the 2200 block of East 68th Street during a child-custody hand-off.



A month earlier, Capt. Edward Kulbida was shot in the shoulder and suffered a graze wound to the head while police went to an Englewood apartment building to arrest a suspect. A detective was wounded during the same incident.



An off-duty police officer was shot in another incident that month while fleeing three would-be robbers.



Chicago Tribune's Gregory Pratt contributed.