Police are still investigating how Richard Gonzalez, 55, died. They believe he may have been high on drugs. (HANDOUT)

An emotionally disturbed husband and father died outside his Bronx apartment after clashing with cops responding to a call regarding a violent man who was high on drugs, police said Thursday.

Richard Gonzalez, 55, was stoned and throwing things around their South Bronx home Wednesday night, according to his wife, Hafiza Ali-Gonzalez, who called cops, officials said.

Advertisement

As the officers interviewed Ali-Gonzalez in the hallway, her agitated husband aggressively tried to pull her inside.

A brief struggle ensued, and cops cuffed Gonzalez who quickly began to exhibit signs of distress. Minutes later, an EMS crew took Gonzalez to Lincoln Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Advertisement

Law enforcement sources said Gonzalez was a longtime cocaine user who may have died of drug abuse.

CDC CALLS FOR NEW GUIDELINES ON OPIOIDS TO REDUCE RISKS

But Ali-Gonzalez, 59, said cops were too rough with her husband, a handiman, and said he died as a result of the scuffle.

"He took some drugs and he was trashing our apartment," Ali-Gonzalez said." I called the police so they could take him to the hospital."

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

She said he only grabbed her to seek her help.

The incident with Gonzalez occurred in the hallway outside the family's apartment entrance door. (Sam Costanza for New York Daily News)

"And they put him in cuffs and slammed him on the floor," Ali-Gonzalez said." He would never hurt me.

"They were trying to block me from seeing him. They were all on top of him. There was a lot of them. They killed him right there."

Ali-Gonzalez, who was married to Gonzalez for four years, said cops had been there several times before under the same circumstances, but her husband always walked away.

Advertisement

Gonzalez had a daughter and two step daughters, she said.

"Why didn't they just take him to the hospital," Ali-Gonzalez said. "Why did they have to kill him?"

With Rocco Parascandola, Thomas Tracy, Graham Rayman