DAVIE, Fla. – A homeowner in Davie, who is also a Miramar police officer, shot someone who attempted to break into his home, authorities said.

The incident was reported shortly after 6 a.m. while the officer was at home with his children. Miramar police later identified the homeowner as Detective Tate Thomas.

"There was a confrontation and there was a shooting, and the burglar is not going to be committing anymore burglaries," Broward Police Benevolent Association President Jeff Marano said.

According to Davie police, another attempted burglary was reported a few blocks away from the home on Gauntlet Hall Lane just 15 minutes before the shooting.

Police said it's unclear whether the dead suspect was responsible for that break-in.

The alleged intruder was pronounced dead at the officer's home.

No injuries were reported in the initial attempted burglary.

"He's shook up and nobody ever wants to take a life, but you have to protect your family," Marano said about the officer.

Neighbors said they were shocked about the news.

"It's a low crime area. We never have problems like this," one neighbor, Pat Lomastro, said.

Another homeowner in the area told Local 10 News reporter Terrell Forney that her home was burglarized Nov. 24. She said thieves stole jewelry, iPads, electronics and guns from her home.

Christine Santoro said someone tried to break into her home again just three weeks ago and smashed a window. She said they ran off after her alarm went off.

"They stole many things -- (a) computer, an iPad, tons of jewelry. They stole six pillow cases to carry all the stuff," Santoro said.

Santoro said the area had been known to be safe until recent months, and she is planning on installing surveillance cameras this weekend.

"Still to this day I feel angst in my stomach to even walk in my home," she said.

Police said the shooting is under investigation and it's unclear whether the officer will be charged.

Thomas has worked for the Miramar Police Department since 2005.