HOWARD COUNTY, Ind. -- A 27-year-old Howard County Sheriff's Deputy was shot and killed while serving a warrant early Sunday morning. A second deputy was also shot and has been released from the hospital.

Several Howard Co. sheriff's deputies went to the 300 block of W. Chandler Street around 12:30 a.m. to deliver an outstanding warrant out of Clinton County for possession of a syringe.

The sheriff's department said the suspect didn’t respond when deputies knocked on the door, but that they simply started shooting, hitting the two officers.

"When officers knocked on the door by announcing their presence, they received no response. Upon entry the officers were confronted by gunfire and the officers returned fire," Howard County Sheriff Steve Rogers said. "A Russiaville officer and other deputies were able to extract the officers and provide first aid."

RIGHT NOW: A major police presence where two officers were shot earlier tonight in Howard Co. (Via @LAthertonPhoto) pic.twitter.com/SFYwmpd5FE — Paris Lewbel (@PLewbel) March 20, 2016

The officers were identified as Sgt. Jordan Buckley, 35, a 9-year veteran of the force, and Deputy Carl Koontz, 27, a 2 year, 8 month veteran of the department.

Please keep our two Sheriff Deputies and their families in your prayers today. Our Deputies put their lives on the line for us everyday. — Howard County IN (@howardcountygov) March 20, 2016

Both officers were taken IU Health Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis, where Koontz later died. The Marion County Coroner's Office has determined that he died from a single gunshot wound to the pelvis.

He is survived by his wife, Cassie, and 8-month-old son, Noah.

SEE PICTURES FROM KOONTZ'S MEMORIAL AND PROCESSION HERE

MORE | Community remembers Deputy Carl Koontz | Howard Co. Sheriff: 'Deputy Carl Koontz was one of our family'

Buckley was released Monday afternoon.

According to the Howard County Sheriff, the department has not had a deputy killed in the line of duty for at least 46 years.

On Sunday afternoon, a motorcade took the deputy's body from the hospital to the Marion County Coroner's Office.

Law enforcement vehicles lined the street as part of the procession.

Several police agencies escorted Howard County Deputy Carl Koontz from the hospital to the Marion County Coroner's Office. The 27-year-old was shot and killed while serving a warrant overnight:: http://bit.ly/21BL5sTMore on how the community is remembering him here: http://www.theindychannel.com/news/local-news/community-remembers-deputy-carl-koontz Posted by RTV6 (WRTV - Indianapolis) on Sunday, March 20, 2016

With a heavy heart, my prayers go out to the Howard Co SD and the family of Deputy Koontz, who was shot and killed. pic.twitter.com/XysFMTBZ1D — Sgt. Philip Hensley (@ISPJasper) March 20, 2016

A SWAT team responded to the scene and attempted to communicate with the suspect for two hours before entering the home, where they found the suspect dead.

On Monday, the suspect was identified as Evan Dorsey, 25. According to the Indiana State Police, his cause of death was a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.

Our sincere thoughts and prayers are with Sgt. Jordan Buckley and Deputy Carl Koontz, both shot while serving a warrant early this morning — Sgt. John Perrine (@ISPIndianapolis) March 20, 2016

Multiple agencies are assisting the Howard County Sheriff's Office in the investigation. The area around the crime scene has been rendered safe and there is no immediate threat to residents.

Gov. Mike Pence has ordered flags to fly at half staff following the death of Deputy Koontz.

.@GovPenceIN orders state flags to half for death of Howard Co. Deputy Carl Koontz @rtv6 pic.twitter.com/TTLlgdsb3S — #IndyThisWeek (@IndyThisWeek) March 20, 2016

Police departments across Central Indiana have offered their condolences.

Prayers go out to our friends in Howard County. God bless the peace makers. @howardcountygov pic.twitter.com/3bUrzzKwzn — IMPD North District (@IMPDNorth) March 20, 2016

Sending our thoughts and prayers are with the Howard County Sheriff's Department this morning. pic.twitter.com/rPskkv9CpN — Butler Univ Police (@ButlerUpolice) March 20, 2016

Prayers be with the Howard County Sheriffs Department.

Blessed are the peacekeepers. — Indiana State Police (@IndStatePolice) March 20, 2016

Lawrence PD Stands United with our Howard Co Sheriff's Dept Colleagues, & Deputy Koontz's family. https://t.co/hOhqe47RyE — Lawrence Police Dept (@Lawrence_Police) March 20, 2016

RELATED | 'Deputy Koontz was one of our family' |Community remembers Deputy Carl Koontz

-----

Download the new and improved RTV6 app to get the latest news on the go and receive alerts to your phone

Sign up to have the latest news headlines delivered straight to your email inbox