HOPEWELL, VA (WWBT) - Hopewell Police have identified the man killed in an officer-involved shooting.

At 3:37 p.m., officers went to investigate a domestic aggravated assault/stabbing at the Twin Rivers apartment complex on Winston Churchill Drive, where police say a father stabbed his daughter's boyfriend.

Officials say the man, identified as 61-year-old Boyd Keith Ballard, was outside in the parking lot. According to police, he had two large butcher knives and was commanded to put them down.

Neighbors say children were outside at the time, and took off running. "A lot of kids ran to my door, scared, I let them in 'cause they were saying a man went crazy with a knife," recalled neighbor Sandra Evans.

Authorities say Ballard started walking towards the responding officer who issued several verbal commands to Ballard. Chief Keohane says Ballard continued to move towards the officer, saying 'Shoot me! Shoot me!'

A media release from the Criminal Investigations Unit states that Ballard "failed to comply and advanced towards [the officer] with the knives in a threatening manner. That officer ultimately fired a single shot striking the offender."

Witnesses saw the scene quickly unfold.

"I was out back, barbecuing and I saw a man backing up, it was a cop. He took a couple steps back, kept backing up like someone was coming at him. I didn't see the person, but he raised his arms and fired one shot," said witness Timothy Barbour, who believes the officer fired his gun low, as if to injure the oncoming man.

Ballard died at John Randolph Hospital, while his daughter's boyfriend is fighting for his life at VCU Medical Center.

Body camera video will be used in this investigation, and Hopewell Police says there is no danger to anyone else.

The Virginia State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation is the lead investigating agency in both the officer involved shooting and the stabbing incident.

Copyright 2016 WWBT NBC12. All rights reserved.

Report an Error or Submit a Tip to NBC12