Staff Writer

The Gainesville Sun

By Cindy Swirko and Deborah Strange

Staff writers

Robert Dentmond stood in the parking lot for more than a half hour Sunday night silently facing down nearly a dozen officers and deputies all with their guns drawn and aimed at him.

The 16-year-old, who his family and friends said had been going through a tough period in his life recently, had called 911 earlier to say that he was armed and was going to kill himself, authorities said.

Alachua County Sheriff's deputies, soon joined by several Gainesville Police officers, took up positions around the parking lot of the Majestic Oaks apartment complex, where Dentmond lived with his sister.

The Gainesville High sophomore was holding a toy gun - but only he knew it at the time. Black, with the tell-tale orange cap covered, it is a realistic replica of an AR-15 assault rifle, details impossible to distinguish in the dimly lit parking lot at 10 p.m.

The officers were about 35 to 45 yards from Dentmond, shielding themselves behind a Dumpster and their vehicles.

A cellphone video taken by a bystander, with commentary by other young people huddled nearby, shows Dentmond picking up the gun after police tell him not to do so.

Agonizing minutes pass as the teen silently looks around, ignoring the warnings from the police not to move.

Dentmond appears to take a step toward the apartment building, possibly toward his sister, and the night erupts in gunfire.

The rounds from the officers and deputies rip into Dentmond, fatally wounding him, but also into buildings in the apartment complex at 5800 SW 20th Ave. One resident would later point out holes in her bedroom wall, just above her bed.

Dentmond was taken by Alachua County Fire Rescue to UF Health Shands Hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

“We saw him with the gun. We heard them ordering him to put the gun down. He put it down and put his hands up. After five or 10 more minutes he picked it back up,” said B.J. Harrison, who lives near the scene.

“He went to walking backward. They said if you take one more step, we will shoot you. He stood there for a minute, took that step back and all you heard was bam, bam, bam, bam, bam and then him drop.”

ASO spokesman Lt. Brandon Kutner said both deputies and GPD officers - a total of nine people - fired shots. Despite there being at least one K9 officer at the scene, which can be heard barking on the videotape, Kutner said authorities had no other option once Dentmond picked the gun back up and began walking toward an apartment building.

“This was obviously a lethal force situation. We were able to convince him to drop his weapon,'' Kutner said. “At that point there were several officers that tried to de-escalate the situation. We react and utilize force on an individual based on their actions.

“Had he left the weapon on the ground, this would have turned out differently,'' he said. “Instead he rearmed himself and walked to an occupied dwelling. We cannot allow an individual who has shown us signs of willingness to harm himself or others to to walk into an apartment armed with an assault rifle.”

Deputies certified in crisis intervention were on scene and hostage negotiators were en route, Kutner said.

The incident began about 10:07 p.m. when Dentmond called 911. Deputies and GPD officers arrived and eventually talked him into putting down the gun.

The videotape shows the standoff proceeding for about five minutes, although police and deputies had been on scene for approximately a half-hour.

Police and deputies can be heard shouting numerous times for Dentmond not to approach the occupied apartment buildings.

The shooting happened about 10:40 p.m. and was witnessed by many Majestic Oaks residents.

Multiple bullets went into the apartment of Shirley Johnson and her daughter, Trenesha McQueen.

“They shot my house up. They put me and my daughter's life in jeopardy in our own home. There is no way it took that many bullets to hit that boy when they had a clear shot,” Johnson said.

Inside the apartment, McQueen showed two bullet holes at a level just inches above her bed. Others passed through the bedroom and into the living room.

“If I would have been up I would have been shot in the back of the head,” McQueen said.

Kutner said the number of shots fired has not been determined and is part of the investigation.

Deputies went door-to-door the check after the shooting to check on the welfare of residents, Kutner said.

“We always train to practice target isolation and clearing the backdrop. This was medium range proximity,” Kutner said. “Deputies were forced to take swift and immediate action based on the actions of the individual. We try as hard as possible to isolate the target and to make sure we a clear backdrop.”

Dentmond was a sophomore at Gainesville High School, having transferred there during the school year from Buchholz High, according to Alachua County school district spokeswoman Jackie Johnson.

His friend, Dylan Byrnes, who came to the scene Monday morning with his mother, Victoria, described Dentmond as a kind, funny teenager who loved playing basketball and football.

They had played together on the same AAU team, NMB Shooters, and Dentmond often spent time at the Byrnes' home.

“He's a great person. He played football. He played basketball,” Dylan said tearfully. “I've known him since middle school. He was a great person. He was really nice and funny. We just connected.”

Added Byrnes, “He was like my adopted son. He was such a good, polite boy. He was going through some depression. He was part of our family. He would come to Thanksgiving with us.”

Friends and neighbors said Dentmond lived with his sister in Majestic Oaks and often played basketball on the courts there.

“He played basketball out there with my nephew. He was a good kid, respectful,” Harrison said. “He didn't bother anybody. I think he was probably going through something.”

Kutner said five deputies fired shots and have been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard in such cases. GPD officer Ben Tobias, the agency's spokesman, said four officers fired and are on temporary leave.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is now investigating the shooting.

Both Alachua County Sheriff Sadie Darnell and Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones went to the shooting scene Sunday night.

A GoFundMe page was set up on Monday by Kevin J. Appel Jr. -https://www.gofundme.com/6ev7nd58 - to help with funeral expenses.

On the page, the author speaks of Dentmond and says, “The young man was feeling deeply troubled and had given up on the world and felt like it was time for him to let go.''

COMMUNITY MEETING

What: The Alachua County Sheriff's Office and the Gainesville Police Department will host a joint Community Meeting Tuesday night to discuss the shooting death of Robert Dentmond. Sheriff Sadie Darnell and Chief Tony Jones will be there.

When: 6 to 7 p.m. Tuesday

Where: Power House Family Worship Center, 7600 SW 24th Ave.

Facilitators: The meeting will be facilitated by community leaders and civic organizations, including Evelyn Foxx, Karl Anderson, Rosa Williams, and representatives from the NAACP, the Gainesville Ministerial Alliance, the State Attorney's Office, the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives, and the Alachua County Black on Black Crime Task Force.