HARRISBURG — State police confiscated computer equipment and bankruptcy papers at the Cumberland County home of Clarence Briggs, the retired state trooper who was shot to death after he killed two workers in a botched robbery of a Turnpike toll plaza last weekend, court records show.

Using a search warrant, investigators removed a computer tablet, a computer tower, a flash drive and records related to Briggs’ 2015 federal bankruptcy filing, according to an inventory of the search filed by state police.

The search was conducted at 6:45 p.m. Sunday, nearly 12 hours after state police say Briggs, wearing tactical gear and an armored vest, shot and killed two men at the Pennsylvania Turnpike’s Fort Littleton interchange before being shot to death by troopers who responded to the robbery call.

The investigation continues, state police spokeswoman Maria Finn said Thursday.

Briggs, 55, was a state trooper from 1988 until his retirement in 2012. During his career he was stationed at the barracks closest to his house: Troop T, Newville, Cumberland County, which is in charge of patrolling the Turnpike. The barracks is about 40 miles east of the Fort Littleton interchange in Fulton County.

According to Capt. David Cain, commander of Troop T, and court records, shortly before dawn Sunday, Briggs parked his car near the interchange’s service road at Route 522 and walked up to a toll booth where toll collector Martha Delores Berkstresser was just finishing her shift and her relief, Danny Crouse, was coming on duty.

As they counted the money, Briggs pointed a gun at Berkstresser and marched them both to the toll plaza building where he ordered her to tie up Crouse with cord Briggs brought. Berkstresser tied Crouse’s hands loosely behind his back, allowing him to get free and try to wrestle the gun from Briggs while she ran outside to call for help.

Then a van from the Schaad Detective Agency, a York firm that is contracted to collect toll money, pulled up. Berkstresser warned the driver and his partner of the attempted hold-up. Security guard Ronald Heist, 71, a retired York city police officer, jumped out to help Crouse.

Briggs shot and killed Heist and Crouse before firing his weapon at the van, forcing the driver to put it in reverse and then flee on foot as bullets pinged around him. Briggs jumped into the van and drove down to his waiting car, where responding troopers found him and a gunfight ensued.

Briggs died of massive bleeding after a bullet tore through the femoral artery in his right inner thigh, Fulton County Coroner Berley Souders said.

In their search warrant application, state police said they were looking for evidence — firearms, ammunition, computers, bank statements, cellphones — that would link him to the killings.

Briggs retired Jan. 7, 2012, according to information provided by the State Employees Retirement System after a right-to-know request filed by The Morning Call. In addition to receiving a $112,000 lump-sum payment, Briggs was receiving a monthly payment of more than $5,220.

After his retirement, Briggs worked as a range master at IWI US Inc., according to his bankruptcy filing. IWI is an Israeli-owned manufacturing and retail company in Lower Paxton Township, Dauphin County, that specializes in firearms ordnance and tactical equipment.

Former state trooper Clarence Briggs, seen here, was killed during a shootout with police after Briggs robbed the toll takers at the Fort Littleton Exchange on Sunday, March 20, 2016.

On March 9, 2015, Briggs and his wife, Donna, deeply in mortgage, credit card, student loan and tax debt, filed for personal bankruptcy in federal court in Harrisburg. The couple’s Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing, which allows them to set up a repayment plan, shows $203,636 in assets and $314,615 in debt.

steve.esack@mcall.com

Twitter @sesack

717-783-7305