Advertisement State police fatally shoot man carjacking woman with assault rifle in South Greensburg Troopers called after Edward Gorinski gets out of jail, violates PFA Share Copy Link Copy

A Pennsylvania man was fatally shot by a state trooper on Monday while using a rifle to try and carjack a woman shortly after his release from jail for violating a protection from abuse order obtained by his parents.Edward Gorinski, 28, of Greensburg, was released from the Westmoreland County Prison about two hours before a trooper, who is not being named, encountered Gorinski shortly after 8 p.m. Monday in South Greensburg.VIDEO: Watch Ashlie Hardway's reportThe trooper was on his way to a home in the tiny borough, about 30 miles east of Pittsburgh from which Gorinski placed phone calls to his parents that violated the protective order, police said.Before the trooper got to the home, he spotted Gorinski and gave chase. Gorinski pointed a rifle at a woman who was driving past, apparently so he could carjack her vehicle to get away from police. When Gorinski refused four requests by the trooper to drop his weapon, which was pointed at the woman, the trooper shot Gorinski."Unfortunately, our trooper was left with no choice but to try to protect the people around him and the woman in that vehicle," said Trooper Steve Limani, a spokesman for the Greensburg state police barracks."I heard what sounded like something hitting the side of my house. Then I heard some yelling, not real loud, but louder than normal," witness Gloria Casale said. "Right after that, I heard four or five gunshots."A woman whom Gorinski knew lived in the area, and police determined that he had forced his way into her home, made the phone calls and obtained a .22-caliber firearm, which he had when he was shot by police.The trooper who shot Gorinski, and the woman whose car Gorinski tried to steal, weren't injured. A bullet struck a nearby building, but no one inside was hurt."I prayed for peace for everybody involved -- the family of whoever this is, whoever was in the car," Casale said.The four-year veteran trooper has been placed on administrative leave during an investigation, which is routine in officer-involved shootings.Online court records and county jail records show that Gorinski had been jailed since March 10 for violating the protective order and was released about 6 p.m. Monday. Pittsburgh's Action News 4 visited Gorinski's parents' home seeking information about their son, but no one answered the door.Gorinski was sentenced to 126 days to one year in jail followed by a year's probation in November 2013 after he pleaded guilty to threatening troopers who responded to his parents' home in Hempfield Township when he violated a previous protective order in June 2013. Gorinski was paroled to a mental health facility after his release from jail, online court records show.