Elizabeth Murray

Free Press Staff Writer

Burlington Police Chief Brandon del Pozo chose the department's roll-call room to provide an update on Monday night's fatal officer-involved shooting.

A 25-centuries-old quote by Chinese general and philosopher Sun Tzu recently was painted on the wall behind the podium: "To subdue your opponent without fighting is the highest skill."

"This is one of our guiding principles here," del Pozo told reporters Tuesday afternoon. "That's not a guaranteed outcome. Conflict happens, wars happen, fighting happens, and in policing, the use of force does occur. What this is is a guiding philosophy and ... is a philosophy we brought to bear last night with imperfect consequences."

Del Pozo said the police department used practically every nonlethal resource and tactic available when attempting to negotiate for nearly five hours with a mentally ill man who was threatening to harm himself and others Monday evening at the South Square Apartments. In the end, the man, Ralph "Phil" Grenon, 76, advanced toward police officers while holding a large knife in each hand, and Officer David Bowers, 23, of Colchester opened fire with his police-issued pistol.

Grenon was pronounced dead at the University of Vermont Medical Center in Burlington. The Vermont State Police are investigating the shooting. Bowers, who joined the department in July 2014, has been placed on paid administrative leave.

Grenon's daughter said Tuesday this is first incident of violence she's aware of involving her father, but Grenon suffered deteriorating mental health for years.

Burlington Mayor Miro Weinberger, meanwhile, said he believes police used all available options to avoid a fatal confrontation before the situation escalated.

The Howard Center's Street Outreach Team asked police to go to Grenon's apartment Monday, del Pozo said, adding that the team felt uncomfortable visiting Grenon alone. The Howard Center team typically interacts with people facing mental-health challenges, substance-abuse issues, homelessness and unmet social-service needs.

"This whole thing started as an effort to deliver services" to a man in distress, del Pozo said. "He'd been on the radar of our Street Outreach Team for several weeks as someone who was escalating in his threats of violence, and he had threatened to kill many of the people on his floor."

By coincidence, police received another call regarding Grenon while an officer and the Street Outreach Team member were on their way, del Pozo said. The caller, an apartment property manager, stated Grenon was threatening to kill others in the apartment complex. Del Pozo said the decision was made that officers should respond on their own.

The Street Outreach Team member waited nearby as police attempted to communicate with Grenon. The authorities brought in crisis negotiators and attempted to call him, drilled holes in the apartment's door for cameras to monitor him, placed an observation post in a window across the street, and spoke with doctors and mental health workers familiar with Grenon to understand his triggers and mental health history, del Pozo said.

Grenon made no response to any police efforts to communicate with him, del Pozo said.

Police eventually entered Grenon's apartment to check that the man was still alive, following a long period without contact and movement inside. Del Pozo said police approached Grenon and retreated several times, and they were retreating again when Grenon, carrying knives, advanced toward officers.

Police also employed Tasers, pepper balls and tactical shields in interactions with Grenon before the deadly encounter.

Grenon was facing eviction due to his long history of making threats toward South Square staff and residents, Burlington Housing Authority Executive Director Paul Dettman said Tuesday. The authority owns and manages South Square.

Often, authority staff had been able to persuade Grenon to re-engage with mental health providers. Dettman said the housing authority is cooperating with the Vermont State Police investigation.

Grenon's daughter Niki Grenon Carpenter of Arizona said in a written statement that her father struggled with mental illness, including paranoid schizophrenia, for most of his adult life. She said she was "heartbroken" by news of her father's death.

"My father was not the sum total of his mental illness or tragic death," Carpenter said. "He was a wonderful man that both endured and overcame many things in his life. He was a devoted husband during his 30 year marriage to my mother, a proud father and grandfather, and a kind human being. He was a veteran of the United States Air Force, a graduate of UVM and St. Michael's. He held a masters degree in education. He loved to read, write, and traveled extensively in his twenties."

Carpenter said she watched her father's mental condition deteriorate as, under the supervision of a psychiatrist, he made changes to medication dosages. Over time, she said, he "became more and more delusional" until he stopped taking medicine, she said.

"He wasn't by nature a violent man, even when broken from reality, and this is the first incident of violence to my knowledge," Carpenter said. "I want him to be remembered for who he was when he was healthy and lucid. ... I love him, and I hope now he is free from his physical and mental pain, and at peace."

Burlington Mayor Weinberger said that after an almost two-hour meeting with Chief del Pozo and City Attorney Eileen Blackwood on Monday night, he believes police did all they could to defuse the situation. Weinberger said he found out about the situation during Monday's City Council meeting.

"From what I know right now, it does seem to me that the police department and the officers on the scene, under the leadership of Chief del Pozo, acted deliberately, and they acted patiently," Weinberger told the Burlington Free Press on Tuesday. "I'm certainly sad at the loss of Mr. Grenon, and my thoughts are with him and his family and his friends. We're going to continue to review all the ongoing investigations to determine whether there are any lessons from this incident that should inform our future handling of similar situations."

Police: Man killed after unsuccessful negotiation

This story was first posted online on March 22, 2016. Contact Elizabeth Murray at 651-4835 or emurray@freepressmedia.com. Follow her on Twitter at www.twitter.com/LizMurraySMC.