MARTIN, MI - An armed robbery suspect who police say shot himself in the head during a brief police chase Saturday in Allegan County told the front-seat passenger in his car "he wasn't going back to jail."

The conversation between Baelyn Kruger, 18, of Woodland, and his passenger, a 24-year-old Grand Rapids man, occurred about 10 minutes after Michigan State Police investigators allege the two men robbed a Clark gas station at gunpoint in downtown Martin.

MSP Detective Sgt. Matthew Doan said Kruger and the other man were both armed with guns when they entered the gas station and ordered the cashier onto the floor before making off with more than $1,000 from the cash register and "a whole bunch of" cigarettes.

Doan said a witness who had pulled into the gas station Saturday afternoon spotted the two men running out of the gas station. The witness dialed 911 and then followed Kruger's red 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier as he headed west toward U.S. 131.

Doan said the witness stopped following the Cavalier after it ramped onto northbound U.S. 131.

Doan said Kruger, who had an outstanding warrant for his arrest, got off U.S. 131 at the next exit (Exit 59) in Shelbyville. From there, he eventually headed north on 10th Street and was spotted by an Allegan County sheriff's deputy who passed the red Cavalier as he was southbound on 10th Street.

Doan said the deputy turned his cruiser around and began following the Cavalier and later, at the intersection of 10th Street and 129th Avenue in Bradley, activated his cruiser's overhead lights to make a traffic stop.

Doan said, at that point, Kruger accelerated north on 10th Street and went off the road a few times before crashing into a barn.

"What we've figured out since this is just after the car accelerated the driver, Kruger, told the passenger he wasn't going back to jail" and also told the passenger he was going to shoot himself, Doan said. "He then placed the gun and shot himself. This was still while they were going down the road."

Doan said Kruger's passenger, whose name has not been released, grabbed the wheel after Kruger shot himself and tried to gain control of the car before it crashed.

Doan said that after the Cavalier, which was registered to Kruger's mother, crashed, the deputy pulled with 15 yards of the car and ended up firing his gun.

"At that point, he believed the passenger was reaching for a handgun in the car so (the deputy) did fire off one shot," Doan said. Kruger's passenger then put his hands outside the car's window, got out, laid down on the ground and was arrested.

Doan said the round fired by the deputy was later found lodged in the barn that Kruger's car crashed into.

Inside the car, Doan said police recovered the money taken from the gas station in Martin. They also recovered a .380 semiautomatic handgun that Doan said Kruger had during the armed robbery in Martin and that he is believed to have used to shoot himself.

Doan said police also recovered an Airsoft pistol, which had its orange tip removed, that police allege Kruger's passenger used during the armed robbery in Martin.

Doan said police are seeking charges of armed robbery and felony firearm against Kruger's passenger and he is expected to be arraigned today, March 28, in Allegan County District Court.

Doan said detectives are awaiting results from the crime lab as part of the continuing investigation but said police did speak with the passenger in Kruger's car who confirmed to them that Kruger shot himself.

Meanwhile, Allegan County Undersheriff Frank Baker said the deputy who fired his handgun has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the results of the MSP investigation, as well as a separate internal investigation by the sheriff's office.

Rex Hall Jr. is a reporter for MLive.com. You can reach him at rhall2@mlive.com. Follow him on Twitter.