TAMPA — Seven months ago, Patrick Matthew McManamon was arrested after police said he beat his wife, used heroin and threatened to commit "suicide by cops."

His wife, Jennifer Hodgins, said that troubling Aug. 20 episode was a result of her husband's addiction to opiates, a problem that has plagued the couple for years.

That same addiction, she said, led her husband to kill one man on Saturday and then start a gunfight with two Tampa police officers.

McManamon, a 46-year-old father of three, was fatally shot. Officer Jose Rodriguez, 53, survived after his bulletproof vest stopped a bullet that struck him in the chest.

"He wasn't some cop-hating, cop-killing monster," Hodgins, 34, said of her husband. "I really feel like he got backed into a corner and that was that."

The story Hodgins told Monday of her husband's struggles with prescription painkillers and heroin — and his desperate fear of returning to prison after spending more than 10 years there — revealed more details about what may have led to Saturday's fatal gunbattle.

Tampa police Chief Eric Ward also released more information about the incident:

Officers received a call about 4 p.m. Saturday of shots fired "inside of a truck" at a Sunoco gas station near 30th Street and 109th Avenue, police said. The pickup sped off and headed north on 30th Street as a witness followed.

The truck rolled through the parking lot of a Wawa convenience store at E Fowler Avenue, police said. Then it turned around and drove into the parking lot of the Hyatt Place Busch Gardens hotel at 11408 N 30th St.

Two officers were dispatched: Rodriguez and Jason Platt, 36, who arrived and found McManamon standing outside the truck. McManamon started shooting, police said.

The two officers and the gunman were just 15 to 20 feet apart when the gunbattle took place. A bullet struck Rodriguez in the chest, police said, but his bullet-resistant vest absorbed the impact. He and Platt returned fire, striking McManamon several times. McManamon was taken to Tampa General Hospital, where he died that night.

Inside the truck, officers found the body of Edward Leroy King, 51. Police think McManamon shot King at the Sunoco, before the confrontation with the two officers.

Hodgins, who said she lives in a sober living home, said she and her husband had bought drugs from King, whom they considered a friend.

The couple had struggled to get clean, she said, a problem that was much harder for McManamon. His wife had gotten him to attend recovery meetings. In recent weeks, he had fought withdrawal symptoms and seemed to be doing okay, she said.

Hodgins last heard from her husband Saturday at 3:30 p.m. McManamon called her from King's cellphone, she said. He told her he had misplaced his cell and asked her to have it turned off. She said he sounded calm.

Keep up with Tampa Bay’s top headlines Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter We’ll deliver the latest news and information you need to know every morning. Loading... You’re all signed up! Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Explore all your options

Her husband didn't own a firearm, Hodgins said, and the pick-up belonged to King.

"We'll never know what they fought over," she said. "Whatever happened, it happened fast."

King moved to Tampa from New Orleans sometime in the last three years, police said. He had a brief criminal history in Florida, including a November arrest after he was pulled over on E Fletcher Avenue while driving with a suspended license. Hillsborough deputies searched him and found six bags of heroin in his pockets, according to an arrest report.

McManamon's criminal record in Florida is much longer. He served 10 years in state prison for attempted murder, kidnapping and other charges related to a turf war between rival prostitution escort services in Gainesville. He later served three years for aggravated assault.

When he was arrested on Aug. 20 for assaulting his wife, a police report said he dragged her into their house by her hair. McManamon also threatened "suicide by cops" — a term that describes when one wishes to provoke officers into killing them. Officers entered the house with guns drawn and said they found him in a back bedroom. Near where McManamon lay, police said they also found a cigar box that held a needle and several vials of heroin.

That 2015 arrest report listed the couple's three children as ages 1, 3 and 9.

"He was a good man, but he had lost hope that everything was going to work out," Hodgins said. "The shooting was a symptom of our disease."

Rodriguez was treated at Tampa General and released Monday afternoon. The Tampa Police Benevolent Association posted a video to social media showing his fellow officers applauding as he was rolled out of the hospital in a wheelchair. Ward said the officer had "minor trauma" from the bullet that struck his chest, but that his vest saved his life.

"The vest did what it was supposed to do," the chief said.

A 13-year Tampa police veteran, Rodriguez previously served 17 years in the Army. He also served several tours overseas as a reservist after joining the police force. He was credited with being among the most productive officers in annual performance reviews.

He twice received the department's "Life Saving Award" — once for helping a man injured in a 2012 car accident and again in 2013 for performing CPR on an unconscious man.

"He's in good spirits," Ward said, "considering the circumstances."

Times senior news researcher John Martin and staff writers Katie Mettler and Arielle Waldman contributed to this report. Contact Dan Sullivan at dsullivan@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3386. Follow @TimesDan.