Yihyun Jeong

The Republic | azcentral.com

Officials have said no state charges will be filed against a Winslow police officer who shot a 27-year-old Navajo woman in Winslow on Easter Sunday, but the investigations into Loreal Tsingine's death continue.

Officer Austin Shipley fired five times and killed Tsingine on March 27 after responding to a report of a convenience-store theft. Tsingine brandished a pair of scissors as she advanced on the officer after she was accused of shoplifting at a Circle K, Winslow police said.

Shipley will remain on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal-affairs investigation that will be conducted by the Mesa Police Department, the city of Winslow announced Friday. A $10.5 million notice of claim also has been filed against Winslow by Tsingine's daughter and husband.

Winslow plans a review of its police department and to improve outreach between the city and Native Americans. The U.S. Department of Justice also announced it would conduct an independent review of the encounter leading up to Tsingine's death.

Here's what to know about the case:

1. Body-camera footage shows scissors

Winslow police said Tsingine had brandished a pair of scissors at Shipley in an exchange that took place a few blocks away from a Circle K where a clerk had reported a case of shoplifting. Shipley approached Tsingine, who fit the robber's description, and attempted to take her into custody when police said she fought back.

Witnesses to the encounter disputed these facts, saying that no scissors were at the scene and that Shipley used excessive force when confronting Tsingine.

Body-camera footage obtained by The Arizona Republic from the city of Winslow confirmed that Tsingine advanced toward Shipley with a pair of silver scissors in her left hand. The footage does not have audio during the encounter, but Shipley's hand movements indicate that he is giving her orders to stop and turn around.

Tsingine is seen being taken to the ground after resisting arrest. As she gets up, a pair of scissors is visible and Shipley pushes her away. She gets up a second time and walks toward Shipley with the scissors in her hand, facing down. Shipley draws his gun and fires, hitting Tsingine five times.

Audio in the footage picks up just as she falls to the ground. Shipley is heard saying, "I did what I had to do. I did what I had to do," to Winslow Police Chief Stephen Garnett at the end of the video as paramedics attempt to revive her.

2. Troubled past for Tsingine, and a history of mental illness

Court and police documents obtained by The Republic through public-records requests detail Tsingine's three brushes with the law in northeast Arizona in her final year.

Her first arrest occurred on April 23, 2015, when she was taken into custody at a Family Dollar in Holbrook on suspicion of shoplifting. She later was released and was ordered to participate in a counseling program.

On June 3, 2015, the Apache County Sheriff’s Office was alerted by a store clerk that Tsingine was running around the R.B. Burnham Co. trading post in Sanders, refusing to leave. Tsingine lunged aggressively toward a responding deputy, who then attempted to arrest her.

The report said she gripped the handle of his holstered pistol with a hand that became loose. Ultimately the deputy took her to the ground, where she kicked and punched him as he flipped her around to handcuff her. She was arrested on suspicion of threatening and intimidating, resisting arrest, providing false information, aggravated assault on an officer, and an attempt to control an officer's firearm.

Tsingine was released July 14, 2015, and was told to appear for a court hearing in late August. She was arrested again Aug. 24 in Holbrook when she was found at a public bus stop consuming alcohol. She spent two days in the Navajo County Jail and then was released on a $300 bond.

Four days later, she failed to show up for her court hearing on the officer-assault allegations, and a warrant was issued for her arrest by an Apache County Superior Court judge. The warrant was active when she was shot and killed.

Family members did not respond to requests for further comment on Tsingine's past, but her aunt Floranda Dempsey, in a eulogy at her funeral, spoke of her niece as having a tumultuous life plagued with personal trauma and the death of many loved ones. Friends of Tsingine told The Republic that she took medication to help with her issues, and her family's attorney cites a history mental illness and alcoholism.

Tsingine had a pill bottle with her prescription for aripiprazole, an anti-psychotic medication, at the scene of her death.

3. Warnings about Shipley, and a history of disciplinary action

Although little biographical information on Shipley has been released, his file shows that he completed his enforcement training in May 2012, joining the Winslow police after an unsuccessful attempt to join the Arizona Department of Public Safety and the Scottsdale Police Department.

Shipley had a documented history of using force in his short 2½-year career at the Winslow Police Department, according to his police personnel file.

He has held a suspect at gunpoint at least five times, has drawn his Taser four times and has used physical force in at least three situations. Shipley has deployed his Taser in two instances, once at a 15-year-old girl who had her back to him, and another time at a man restrained to a gurney at a hospital.

Records obtained by The Republic show Shipley received more than 30 violations during his four months' training in the field to be an officer. His well-documented history of issues includes tampering with evidence, falsifying reports, insubordination, tunnel vision, and authorities' concerns that he was "too quick to go to his gun."

Records show that the day before his training ended, supervisors recommended that the department not hire Shipley, citing specific concerns. The recommendation when ignored and Shipley was promoted to full-time status.

Shipley was on six months' disciplinary probation and was required to enroll in a department-mandated training on the use of force during the time he shot and killed Tsingine.

4. $10.5 million notice of claim filed against city, officer

Tsingine's family filed a $10.5 million notice of claim on July 2, alleging that Shipley violated her civil rights and that the city "uniformly ignored warning signs that Shipley was a threat to the public."

The claim calls Shipley a "bully" and includes a slew of his past violation to illustrate that Winslow was negligent in "hiring, training, retaining, controlling and supervising" Shipley.

The wrongful-death claim names the city of Winslow, Garnett and Shipley as defendants, and Tsingine's husband and daughter as the claimants.

"In the United States we believe in protecting the weak and disabled. As citizens we believe in standing up to bullies," Robert Pastor, the attorney who filed the claim for the family, said in a statement. "Austin Shipley is a bully. The city of Winslow and its leaders refused to stand up to him when they had the chance, and now because of their cowardice, Loreal Tsingine is dead."

City Attorney Ellen Van Riper said Winslow had received the notice of claim and is in the process of reviewing it.

"Because the notice of claims is the precursor to a lawsuit, it is pending litigation. The city's policy is to not comment on pending litigation matters," Van Riper said.

5. No charges to be filed against Shipley

The DPS investigated the shooting at the request of the Winslow Police Department. The agency concluded its investigation in early June, handing over its findings to the Maricopa County Attorney's Office for an independent prosecutorial review at the request of the Navajo County Attorney's Office.

Maricopa County Attorney Bill Montgomery announced July 22 that no charges will be filed against Shipley.

"After a careful review of the facts surrounding the case, including available video evidence and witness statements from all involved, my office found no evidence of criminal conduct on the part of Officer Shipley," he said in a statement.

According to the statement, Shipley attempted to detain Tsingine, but she did not comply with orders and resisted arrest. He took her to the ground after she swung the scissors at him.

"He then retreated, with his duty weapon drawn, and gave multiple commands fo the suspect to stop and drop her weapon," the statement said. "She did not comly but instead got up and aggressively advanced on the officer with scissors in hand."

No further comments will be made about the case beyond the statement according to spokeswoman Rebecca Wilder.

6. Justice Department to conduct independent review

The U.S. Justice Department's Civil Rights Division announced it would investigate the shooting after tribal officials and activists urged federal officials to look into the treatment of American Indians in towns that border the Navajo Nation.

Former Navajo Nation President and state Rep. Albert Hale demanded a call for a federal investigation in April at a news conference outside the state Capitol, where he shared the painful past of his father being beaten and killed by police in Gallup, N.M.

Justice Department spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle made the announcement Friday but declined to comment further.

The Navajo Nation Council told the Associated Press it was elated at the Justice Department's decision. "Navajo Nation Council members unanimously supported a resolution requesting for a federal investigation, so we wholeheartedly support the USDOJ's decision," the council said in a statement.

A mediator for the Justice Department facilitated a meeting with members of the Navajo Human Rights Commission, Winslow police and other city and community members in early May.

Winslow promises change in wake of Loreal Tsingine shooting

"The purpose of the meeting was to begin the process of understanding concerns by Native Americans in and around Winslow regarding the tragic event that took place on March 27, and other issues that were aired by all concerned parties," Winslow City Manager Steve Pauken said in a statement.

The city announced it would be looking into initiatives to reduce the number of liquor license in the city and would take steps to ensure that staff members would attend tribal chapter house meetings where residents express their opinions to tribal leaders.

No further updates about changes have come from the city.

7. What's next?

Shipley remains on paid administrative leave while the Mesa Police Department will conduct an internal-affairs investigation. An interim chief is expected to replace Garnett. He is set to retire in August, although the city officials have not announced his last day.

Pauken said in May that Garnett had announced his retirement in 2011, and that he continued to work for the city as part of the Deferred Retirement Option Program.

"I can guarantee you that the chief's departure in August has everything to do with the retirement program and nothing to do with anything else," he said. "No more, no less."

A full written report on the DPS investigation was expected to be released Wednesday, along with additional body-camera footage, according to Winslow City Clerk Suzy Wetzel.

Republic reporter Robert Anglen contributed to this article.

Contact the reporter at yjeong@arizonarepublic.com and follow her on Twitter @yihyun_jeong.