Chesterfield County police officer Chris Murphy rests his hand on the cruiser of slain Virginia State Police trooper Chad P. Dermyer after placing flowers on the vehicle at VSP headquarters on Midlothian Turnpike.

An Illinois man with a lengthy criminal record who fatally shot a Virginia State Police trooper in the Richmond Greyhound bus station Thursday was traveling from North Carolina to Chicago and carrying 143 rounds of live ammunition in one of his bags, the superintendent of the Virginia State Police said Friday.

James Brown III, 34, of Aurora, Ill., a suburb of Chicago, was initially seated in the restaurant area of the terminal on North Boulevard when he got up to move toward his bags, which were nearby in the front of the depot, Col. W. Steven Flaherty said at a news conference.

Trooper Chad P. Dermyer, 37, then approached Brown, Flaherty said, and “within seconds” Brown pulled a Beretta .40-caliber semi-automatic pistol, “turned into him and fired shots ... struck Chad multiple times.” Other state troopers nearby then shot Brown, who went back toward the restaurant area before he could be taken into custody. He died at VCU Medical Center.

Dermyer, who was shot near the entrance of the bus station about 2:40 p.m. Thursday, was pronounced dead at a hospital. He had been taking part in a training exercise at the bus station and was not wearing a protective vest. But whether that would have saved his life was uncertain, according to Flaherty: “We are talking about a .40-caliber weapon fired inches from his chest.”

Flaherty said Friday that state police troopers are recommended to wear protective vests whenever in uniform, but it was not required of Dermyer in this situation. Whether the requirements for protective vests should be changed is being discussed, Flaherty said.

During the exchange of gunfire inside the bus station, two women suffered injuries that were not life-threatening, Flaherty said. They are a 21-year-old from Wingdale, N.Y., and a 47-year-old from Jacksonville, N.C.

The women, who were bus passengers passing through Richmond, were not identified by police, but Binghamton University in New York said a member of its track team was injured and released from a hospital Friday. The student-athlete was headed to a track meet at the College of William and Mary.

Flaherty said Dermyer was a new member of a group of about 16 other troopers, supervisors and special agents in a criminal interdiction unit training at the bus station. Part of the training is engaging citizens in such a setting, he said, adding that he did not know what prompted Dermyer to approach Brown.

Asked what might have been said, Flaherty said: “If there was anything, it was probably small talk to try and engage him. ... The two of them weren’t together for more than a few seconds, so any conversation was very slight.”

Why Dermyer approached Brown in particular was not entirely clear, Flaherty said.

During the training, law enforcement officers were “looking for people that may have been acting suspiciously. But we don’t know really what drew him to Mr. Brown. And, of course, we don’t know the words of the conversation (between Dermyer and Brown).”

While law enforcement officers at the bus station Thursday were doing a training exercise, Flaherty said, “it had an operational component. If that training led to some violation of the law, then they would deal with it appropriately.”

Brown, traveling from the Raleigh-Durham area to Chicago, was carrying two bags. One contained two partially loaded 30-round clips and two boxes of ammunition, Flaherty said. The gun was legally purchased 13 months ago by another person, but authorities have not yet been able to determine how it got to Brown, he said.

“It’s very troubling he would have a gun,” Flaherty said. “It’s troubling that he was out, having the history he had, and able to travel on the bus line.”

Brown, Flaherty said, had an extensive criminal history in Illinois and was well-known to Aurora police. He described Brown as having a history of drug charges and a variety of violent offenses, including some involving guns.

But what prompted Brown to open fire remains a mystery. As far as state police have been able to determine, there were no outstanding arrest warrants against Brown, and no drugs were found in his possession after the shooting. There was no indication of terrorism.

Authorities believe Brown was traveling alone.

Flaherty said an “incredible amount of work has taken place” in the first 24 hours after the shooting. In addition, the agency has received countless expressions of kindness and prayers “to carry us through these dark days,” he said.

***

An online records search of Brown in Kane County Circuit Court in Illinois turned up more than 80 criminal charges and traffic violations. More than half were for traffic infractions.

Thirty-three of the charges resulted in convictions, but only four of those called for Brown to spend a significant period of time behind bars. The court records do not show what portion of sentences was suspended. The remaining 29 convictions carried sentences that can be measured in days or no time at all. Brown was fined in 14 cases, though many of the fines remain unpaid.

In 2001, Brown was charged with murder but pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of aggravated discharge of a firearm. He was sentenced to four years in prison. But just a year later, he was cited for several traffic violations.

Flaherty said Friday that he believes Brown had served an active sentence of about two years for the gun conviction; however, police are still trying to gather information about Brown’s extensive record. Online court records show that he also had received credit for the jail time he served leading up to the conviction.

In 2003, he faced six years in prison for manufacturing heroin. Then three years later, he was out again and sentenced to another 5½ years for possession of between 15 and 100 grams of cocaine. Court records do not indicate why he was released early.

In 2009, he received a 30-month sentence for intimidation/physical harm.

Soon after his release, he was locked up again, this time for 2½ years after pleading guilty in 2012 to domestic battery and aggravated battery of a pregnant woman.

A woman who dated Brown around the time he was charged with assaulting a pregnant woman told The Associated Press that he frequently expressed his hatred toward police and once nearly choked her to death years after she broke up with him. She spoke on the condition of anonymity, saying she fears for her safety.

In 2011, on the same day that Brown was accused of strangling a pregnant woman, a judge granted his former girlfriend a protection order against him. He was released from prison in March 2014, the AP reported. Six months after his release, Brown again broke traffic laws.

Brown previously said he would rather die fighting police than return to prison, the ex-girlfriend told the AP.

“He wanted to be one of those guys that just died killing police officers because they are not taking him back to jail,” she said.

***

Among the work remaining to be done is to slow down surveillance video from inside the bus station to better understand the sequence of events, Flaherty said.

Police are trying to determine the source of the gunshots that struck the two women — whether those shots were fired by Brown or the troopers who reacted to Brown.

Dermyer is the 62nd Virginia trooper to be killed in the line of duty during the department’s 84-year history. His patrol car was placed on display in his memory in front of the state police administrative headquarters on Midlothian Turnpike in Chesterfield County and covered with bouquets of flowers and balloons.

A native of Jackson, Mich., Dermyer graduated from the state police academy in 2014 after four years of service in the Marine Corps and work as a police officer in Jackson and Newport News. He was married with two young children.

He had recently been assigned to a counterterrorism and criminal interdiction unit after serving on patrol in the Hampton and Newport News areas for the state police.

A Greyhound spokeswoman said late Thursday that she was unaware of the troopers’ training but that such an exercise would not be unusual.

“We were not made aware of a training exercise taking place,” Lanesha Gipson said. “However, we do sometimes allow authorities to conduct trainings at our stations or use a bus for that purpose.”

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security was not involved in the police interdiction training exercise at the terminal, said spokeswoman Gillian Christensen. But Christensen said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement provided “on-scene assistance following the shooting” through its Homeland Security Investigations unit and assisted state police with the investigation.

Gipson said the company has invested government grants and private funds in more than a half-dozen security measures “to keep our customers safe” since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, including voluntarily participating in a program of the Transportation Security Administration that has conducted federal security inspections in 33 of its bus terminals. Gipson did not know whether the Richmond station was among those inspected.

Other security measures include having space for police substations in bus terminals, hiring security guards, and installing surveillance cameras.

The company also has installed driver shields on all vehicles and a “DriveCam” that records video of “any situations both inside and outside the bus when activated.” The company conducts random screenings of passengers and searches of hand-carried luggage, and requires passengers to check bags and remain with them until they are loaded onto the bus.

Greyhound received $86,000 last year from a Department of Homeland Security grant program for security measures on inter-city bus service to high-threat regions such as Northern Virginia.

Virginia also could use its general Homeland Security grant allocations for bus security outside of designated high-threat regions, including the Richmond area, according to a spokesman for the federal agency.

Greyhound employs private security at the Richmond terminal, but they were “not on duty during the time of the incident,” Gipson said. “This has no relation to a training exercise taking place.”

After the shooting, the bus station remained closed to the public until Friday afternoon. Several Richmond police officers patrolled the bus station along with about a dozen security guards who were patrolling inside and outside.