Police have found the body of a woman after a man allegedly confessed to murdering someone before he shot himself in a parking lot Monday night in Arlington.

Example video title will go here for this video

GRAND PRAIRIE — Police have found the body of a woman after a man allegedly confessed to murdering someone before he shot himself in a parking lot Monday night in Arlington.

According to Grand Prairie police, authorities in Arlington contacted them Monday while investigating the case.

Police sources tell News 8 they believe the body found is the ex-girlfriend of the man who killed himself. She had recently reported him to police for domestic violence.

Neither the suspect nor the woman have been identified.

Arlington police reported they received a report of a disturbance at about 5 p.m. Monday at the La Quinta Inn & Suites in the 4000 block of Scots Legacy Drive in Arlington.

Responding officers found an armed man barricaded inside his vehicle at a nearby Lowe's parking lot. According to Arlington police, the man made threats and confessed to killing a woman in Grand Prairie before he shot himself.

The following day, the body of a woman, who appeared to be in her 20s, was found in a wooded area near the 2400 block of Pioneer Parkway in Grand Prairie.

"Her name and cause of death will be released by the Tarrant County Medical Examiner’s office once an official identification has been made and the next of kin have been notified," read a statement from Grand Prairie police.

Police believe the woman had been dead at least a week because of the decomposition of her body.

The woman reported being assaulted by her ex-boyfriend on March 10 to Grand Prairie police. Sources say in the course of her interview, she described two other assaults -- one which occurred in Dallas and another in Grand Prairie. As a result, detectives obtained a family violence warrant for the former boyfriend on March 23.

Even before securing the warrant, police began looking for the ex-boyfriend. Authorities believe he went on the run in a friend's van, and was staying wherever he could find a place to sleep.

Not long after making the police report about her ex, the woman began making calls, asking that police not file charges. Police believe that on at least one of the calls, the suspect may have been with her at the time, trying to get her to drop the charges.

Police told the woman the charges were sent on to the Dallas County District Attorney's Office.

Authorities say the investigation is in the early stages and they're currently working to develop "a timeline of what the victim did in the hours and moments leading up to her death."