WEST SPRINGFIELD -- The man who was shot to death Tuesday after he charged at two police officers with a knife has a previous conviction of assaulting a police officer, among other charges.

Peter J. Doherty, 52, is suspected of killing his wife, Renee C. Herbert, 45, with the knife in their Myron Court apartment Tuesday morning.

A neighbor called 911 after hearing the woman's cries for help, and Doherty charged officers as soon as they broke down the door, Hampden District Attorney Anthony Gulluni said at a press conference Tuesday. Both were taken to a Springfield hospital and pronounced dead.

An examination of Springfield District Court records going back to 1994 indicates Doherty has been charged with crimes in that court eight previous times. The court files also make mention of arrests and cases in Ludlow, where he previously lived, and Pittsfield.

Of the four most recent case files available Wednesday in Springfield District Court, from 2010 to 2015, the only violent crime was the case in which Doherty bumped a Springfield police officer with his car, then shoved and grappled with the officer.

Court records indicate that Doherty was born in New York City and formerly lived in Holyoke, Ludlow and at several addresses in Springfield.

Ludlow Police Sgt. Daniel Valadas confirmed that several of Doherty's previous arrests there involved domestic violence. "He was well known to our police department," Valadas said.

He said he could not give details of the crimes, and court documents on the cases were not available late Wednesday afternoon as Palmer District Court was already closed.

Springfield arrests

On July 24, 2010, Springfield Police Officer Leon Moultrie observed Doherty, who was homeless at the time, take a tube of toothpaste from the CVS at 600 State St. Doherty ran when he saw the cop following him, and jumped into his Ford Windstar parked outside.

Moultrie wrote in court documents that he approached Doherty's open window and told him to stop but he put his car into reverse and tried to leave. The driver's side door of the car struck Moultrie and Doherty shoved his chest with his hand out the window. He also told the officer, "I will run you over if you don't let me leave."

Moultrie was able to grab the gear shift through the window and put the car in park before pulling Doherty from the vehicle. He continued to fight and resist arrest, Moultrie wrote in court docuements.

Doherty pleaded guilty to charges of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon, resisting arrest, a threat to commit bodily harm and shoplifting on March 11, 2011 and was ordered to serve 60 days in the Hampden County House of Correction. The prosecutor had been asking for six months.

Doherty was also found guilty of larceny over $250 in 2012 after police used DNA evidence to connect him to a 2010 break-in at Dr. Dental at 800 Boston Road. He admitted to stealing an $800 television and was given a suspended one-year sentence.

He was convicted of shoplifting shrimp, lobster and beef from the Ludlow Big Y in 2010 and was sentenced to serve 60 days.

His most recent conviction was on a charge of operating with a suspended license in 2015. He was given a $100 fine, but failed to pay it, so warrants were issued for his arrest as recently as March 15, 2016.