Vic Ryckaert

IndyStar

Two would-be robbers hid in a McDonald's bathroom on Indianapolis' west side until the restaurant closed before rushing out with guns drawn Saturday night, according to court records filed Monday.

Everything went well, a surviving suspect told detectives, until they saw a police officer on the other side of the drive-up window.

An instant later, police shot and killed Cameron Gover, 30.

Officers also arrested Briscoe Jones, 27, who faces preliminary charges of robbery and felony murder in connection with the deadly holdup at the McDonald's restaurant near West 38th Street and Lafayette Road about 11:15 p.m.

It's not clear who called police, but Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department officer Pablo Navarette was first to respond, according to a preliminary probable cause affidavit filed Monday.

Peering through a drive-up window, Navarette saw two masked men, one holding a gun to an employee's head.

Dead suspect identified, another charged in McDonald's robbery

The suspects saw the officer and ran for the doors. Police by this time had the building surrounded.

Gover, prosecutors say, "burst out the back door, gun in hand."

Officers yelled "police," according to the court document, and Gover's right arm "came up."

Sgt. Steven Rivers fired one shot that hit Gover in the chest, according to the document. Gover closed the door to the restaurant, ran to the counter and collapsed.

Jones hid in a women's bathroom, where, according to prosecutors, he dumped a handgun and a black hoodie in the trash.

Police ordered everyone to climb out through the drive-up window. Jones exited with the workers. The manager immediately pointed out Jones as one of the robbers.

Police arrested Jones and interviewed him at the homicide office.

Jones, according to the document, confessed that he and Gover hid in the bathroom until the restaurant closed at 11 p.m., when they entered the restaurant with guns drawn.

"Jones stated that at first everything was going well," a detective wrote in the court document.

Jones told the workers to get down, according to the document, while Gover took the manager at gunpoint to the back of the building.

"It was at this point that he heard Cameron (Gover) yell 'police' and that they both ran," the document noted.

Police found a handgun near Gover's body. Officers found another gun and a hoodie in the women's room trash bin.

Superior Court Judge Grant Hawkins on Monday gave prosecutors until Thursday morning to file formal charges. Jones remained held without bond in the Marion County Jail.

If prosecutors choose to file the felony murder charge, Jones could be held legally responsible for Gover's death, even though he didn't pull the trigger. Felony murder carries a potential sentence of 45 to 65 years in prison.

Dead suspect identified, another charged in McDonald's robbery

Elkhart Four felony murder convictions overturned by Indiana Supreme Court

Call IndyStar reporter Vic Ryckaert at (317) 444-2701. Follow him on Twitter: @vicryc.