Jody Callahan

USA TODAY NETWORK – Tennessee

No charges will be filed against an off-duty Memphis police officer who shot and killed a man during a custody exchange last year, the Shelby County District Attorney's office said Wednesday.

The decision was made by the D.A.'s office, meaning the case was not presented to a grand jury, officials said Wednesday.

Marshall Smith, 36, shot and killed Luis Felipe Soto, 29, on April 10 at a Shell gas station at 1781 Getwell Road. Soto was there to return his 4-year-old daughter to her mother, who officials said was engaged to Smith. But according to the D.A.'s office, Soto pulled a gun and pointed it at Smith, who then identified himself as a police officer and warned Soto to drop his weapon. Smith then pulled his weapon and fired several shots, officials said, killing Soto.

"The officer was clearly not the aggressor in this case and his actions may have saved a number of lives that night,” DA Amy Weirich said in a statement. “It was truly a heartbreaking outcome, but one that could have been much worse but for the officer’s actions.”

Smith was hired by the Memphis Police Department on June 8, 2009 and was assigned to the North Main Station. He was relieved of duty with pay after the shooting but was subsequently placed on non-enforcement status, police said. He is expected to return to active duty.

This is the second such decision from the DA's office regarding a fatal Memphis police shooting in recent weeks. On Jan. 25, the DA's office announced that no criminal charges would be filed against Leon Dickson, the MPD officer who shot and killed Alexio Allen in a Raleigh home last March 23.

Under an agreement with the DA's office, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation leads the inquiry into all fatal officer-involved shootings, as it did in both these cases. By state law, TBI files are not open to the public without a subpoena or a court order. Weirich has filed petitions with Chancery Court to release the files on both of these shootings, although no decision has been announced yet.