KENTWOOD. MI -- Kent County prosecutors will not pursue charges against a Kentwood Police officer for fatally shooting a stabbing suspect as the man wrestled and stabbed at a police dog.

Kentwood Police Officer Darrin Cline fired shots that killed Lamont Gulley in early April, moments after Gulley allegedly killed his wife in a Kentwood apartment.

In a lengthy opinion released Tuesday, June 21, Kent County Prosecutor William Forsyth said Cline fired two shots at Gulley as police had him surrounded, but also as Gulley was repeatedly stabbing at a police dog.

Forsyth ruled that the canine handler, Grand Rapids Police Officer Tim Hoornstra, was in close proximity to both the dog and Gulley, and was in danger of being wounded by the knife.

"As the K-9 engaged, Mr. Gulley became actively aggressive and began flailing the knife, putting both the dog and Officer Hoornstra at risk," Forsyth wrote.

"Because of the weather conditions (snow and ice), it increased the possibility that Officer Hoornstra could slip and fall in close proximity to Mr. Gulley.

"Given these facts and circumstances, I cannot prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Officer Cline was focused solely on the welfare of the dog to the exclusion of Officer Hoornstra," he wrote.

Forsyth planned to release dash cam and police body camera videos today that he said are "graphic and many will find them disturbing."

One video shows the dog dragging Gulley after the shooting and Forsyth said audio from body cameras help explain why that happened.

Gulley allegedly fatally stabbed Casey Kempker, 41, in their Pheasant Ridge apartment on April 8.

Police tracked his footprints in the snow following the stabbing and eventually were able to surround him. He refused to comply with officers' demands to drop the knife, and also repeatedly said he had a gun and yelled at officers to shoot him.

Police unsuccessfully tried three times to Taser him.

Forsyth said Hoornstra was within about 5 feet of the suspect and the swinging knife when Cline fired his service weapon.

"Given the slippery conditions and the proximity of Officer Hoornstra to Mr. Gulley, Officer Cline made a split-second decision to use deadly force to protect Officer Hoornstra," he wrote.

The dog, Aero, ultimately was not injured because he was wearing a vest, police determined. Hoornstra, however, initially thought the dog was wounded.

Gulley had a steak knife with a 4 1/2 inch serrated blade on him.

E-mail John Tunison: jtunison@mlive.com and follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/johntunison