Three Sacramento police officers have been cleared for shooting dead a mentally-ill disabled man after they were recorded saying witnesses should hit him with a baseball bat.

Officers acted in self-defense when they fired seven bullets at Dazion Jerome Flenaugh as the 40-year-old charged at them with kitchen knives, the Sacramento County District Attorney's Office said on Friday.

In dramatic dashcam footage, the officers are heard joking about Flenaugh, calling him a 'nut' and saying that he should be struck with a baseball bat to 'mellow him out,' moments before his death on April 8, 2016.

Scroll down for video

Three Sacramento police officers have been cleared in the fatal shooting of Dazion Jerome Flenaugh (right) in April 2016. In a dashcam footage (left), an officer is heard telling a bystander of Flenaugh: 'If you see him, just hit him with a baseball bat a couple times. That'll mellow him out'

Police in Sacramento released a half-dozen videos, audio files and photos related to the shooting in 7600 block of Prescott Way in response to a Freedom of Information Act request submitted by the Sacramento Bee, on Tuesday .

The department released bodycam videos, surveillance footage and 911 calls documenting the chain of events leading up to Flenaugh's shooting and also capturing its immediate aftermath.

All identities of the individuals involved in the deadly confrontation, including the responding officers and Flenaugh himself, have been blurred in the recordings, and none of the videos shows the moment the man was shot.

The incident began unfolding at around 8.20am on April 8 when police got a 911 call from a concerned resident reporting that a suspicious man with dreadlocks was seen going door-to-door in the neighborhood, peering into windows and jumping fences.

Police in Sacramento released a half-dozen videos, audio files and photos related to a deadly shooting of Flenaugh, on Tuesday. He is seen in this screenshot sitting inside a police cruiser

Flenaugh, who was mentally ill, was picked up by police on April 8 after residents spotted him going door-to-door and peering into windows. This video shows the 40-year-old man growing increasingly agitated and erratic

Frantic: 'I'm just going to f***ing jail… for the rest of my life,' Flenaugh can be heard saying in the video shot inside the cop car

Escape: An officer opens the back door (left) and asks Flenaugh, 'what are you doing, you freak?' Flenaugh replies, 'I'm looking for a …' before he pushing his way past the cop and flees

When officers arrived on scene, they spotted a man matching the suspect's description, later identified as Dazion Flenaugh, and detained him without handcuffs in the back of a police cruiser.

In a video captured by a camera positioned inside the vehicle, an officer can be heard telling Flenaugh: 'I'm just going to take you home, bud. Come on.'

While officers went to speak to neighbors to determine if the suspect had committed any crime, Flenaugh began acting erratic.

The video from inside the police cruiser shows the man muttering to himself and growing increasingly frantic and agitated as he kicks the door and tries to pull the bars off the window.

'I'm dead,' he can be heard saying at one point, having failed to find an exit. 'I'm just going to f***ing jail… for the rest of my life.'

Chilling: A home surveillance camera captured Flenaugh repeatedly swinging a pickax at someone's front door

The man smashes the tool agaisnt the door several times but fails to break it down

The suspect is seen in this screengrab fleeing with the pickax, having failed to force his way into the house

Eventually, an officer opens the back door and asks Flenaugh, 'what are you doing, you freak?'

Flenaugh replies, 'I'm looking for a …' before he pushes his way past the cop and flees.

A foot pursuit ensued and the 40-year-old runaway began jumping fences into several backyards in an attempt to elude officers.

According to police, during the chase Flenaugh jumped into a woman's backyard and confronted the homeowner, who fled in terror inside the home and locked the sliding glass door.

A dashcam video from one of the police cruisers on the scene shows an officer climbing on the hood to try and catch a glimpse of the fugitive

In this dashcam video, an officer is heard telling a bystander of Flenaugh: 'If you see him, just hit him with a baseball bat a couple times. That'll mellow him out'

Flenaugh began banging on the door and eventually shattered the glass to get in. Once inside the house, the police statement read, the suspect grabbed a pair of large knives from the kitchen and chased the homeowner out the front door.

The woman's neighbor heard the commotion and went outside his home to see what what happening, at which point police said Flenaugh attempted to stab him several times. Both victims escaped unharmed.

In the course of the rampage, a home surveillance camera captured Flenaugh repeatedly swinging a pickax at someone's front door. Having failed to break down the door, the suspect runs off, pickax in hand.

As officers responded to multiple 911 calls about the suspects, Flenaugh jumped another fence in an effort to elude capture.

Bloody aftermath: Flenaugh is seen lying fatally shot on the ground with his arms handcuffed behind his back (left). Police said the man was gunned down after charging at officers with knives

None of the videos released by the police department shows the moment cops opened fire on the suspect

Police have released this image of a knife the say Flenaugh was armed with at the time of the confrontation

They say he was also in possession of this knife, which he is believed to have stolen from a woman's home

A dashcam video from one of the police cruisers on the scene shows an officer climbing on the hood to try and catch a glimpse of the fugitive.

When a bystander asks what's happening, the same officer who earlier called Flenaugh a 'freak' replies: 'There's some nut, tweak, just freaking out. He's back there somewhere. If you see him, just hit him with a baseball bat a couple times. That'll mellow him out.'

Another officer is then heard laughing as he passes by with a colleague.

Neighbors eventually helped officers track down Flenaugh to his hiding spot near a car parked in a driveway on Center Parkway.

According to police, the officers ordered Flenaugh multiple times to drop the weapons during the brief standoff that ensued.

According to police, Flenaugh had refused to drop his weapons. The image on the left shows his pixelated body. The shot on the right depicts the moment officers handcuffed him

An officer is seen aiming his bodycam at the knife resting on the ground at the crime scene

'The armed suspect disregarded the commands and charged towards officers,' the police statement said. 'Fearful for their lives and for the safety of community members, officers shot the suspect multiple times as the suspect charged at them with both knives in hand.'

An officer's body camera later captured the scene in the wake of the shooting, with cops standing with their guns drawn on a residential street and Flenaugh lying motionless on the ground.

In the footage, police talk among themselves about the need to 'secure' the mortally wounded suspect, and after donning gloves they restrain Flenaugh's arms behind his back.

One officer remarks of the bloody scene, ' it's not pretty,' then asks his colleague if he's OK.

About nine minutes into the bodycam video, first responders arrive and approach Flenaugh, who was then pronounced dead on the scene.

No toxicology report has been released, but police said the deceased had amphetamine and methamphetamine in his system.

Flenaugh's mother, Christina Robbins, told the Sacramento Bee that her son was bipolar and had been living on the streets for several years, unable to find work because of his criminal past.

His record included convictions for grand theft of a farm animal, carrying a concealed weapon and other misdemeanors.

First responders arrived on the scene about nine minutes after Flenaugh was shot

An administrative review of the shooting was carried out on May 31, 2016, and it was determined that the officers' actions were within department policy. The three officers who fired their weapons have since returned to their regularly assigned duties.

The officer who made the remark calling Dazion Flenaugh a 'nut' and suggesting he be struck with a baseball bat, described by police spokesman Bryce Heinlein as a veteran with more than a decade of experience, was later the subject of an administrative review.

'The death of Mr. Flenaugh is tragic and affects everyone involved; the family, the community and the entire Sacramento Police Department. This incident weighs heavily on the hearts of our officers and is a reminder of the challenges of this profession. I would like to express my condolences to the Flenaugh family during this difficult time,' Interim Police Chief Brian Louie said in a statement.

In June 2016, the investigation was submitted to the Sacramento County District Attorney's Office for review to determine the legality of the shooting and is still being evaluated.