Douglas Walker

dwalker@muncie.gannett.com

MUNCIE, Ind. – A Delaware County grand jury has returned no indictments in the fatal shooting of a Muncie man by a city police officer.

The grand jury was impaneled Wednesday in Delaware Circuit Court 5, and that day heard testimony and reviewed evidence in the April 15 shooting death of Storm Allen Smith, 26.

On Thursday afternoon, the special prosecutor assigned to the case, former Clay County Prosecutor David O. Thomas, issued a report reflecting the grand jurors had determined the Muncie officer – whose name has not been released – was “justified pursuant to Indiana law to use deadly force” against Smith.

Muncie officer fatally shoots man during struggle

According to Thomas’ report – based on an Indiana State Police investigation – the officer was called to an address in east Muncie, near Jackson Street and the Muncie Bypass, and was told by homeowners that Smith was “flipping out,” had broken a window and threatened to drive his vehicle through their home.

When the officer arrived, the report said, Smith “had driven away from the home with a homeowner’s daughter, who had voluntarily entered the car to diffuse the situation.”

Smith then returned to the scene and was approached by the officer, who “found him to be agitated and with blood on his knuckles,” Thomas wrote.

When the officer “patted down” Smith, he felt a hidden object – which Smith referred to as his “bullet” – in the Muncie man’s pants.

According to the special prosecutor’s report:

Smith fled from the patrolman on foot, with the officer telling him to stop multiple times and then warning him he would be shocked with an electronic stun device if he continued to resist.

The officer caught up with Smith, who struck his pursuer several times in the ensuing struggle.

The officer “tased” Smith, who managed to get control of the electronic stun device and continued to flee.

The officer pulled his handgun after Smith began to point the stun device at him. “He warned the suspect to stop or he could be shot.”

Still armed with the stun device, Smith reached into his pocket and produced the “silver metallic object” he had referred to as his bullet.

Smith fell to the ground, and then pointed both objects – the stun device and the “bullet” – at the officer.

The officer “discharged five rounds from his handgun which struck the suspect.”

He then “administered life-saving techniques” on Smith until emergency medical personnel arrived.

The Muncie man was pronounced dead at the scene.

Special prosecutor appointed to Muncie police shooting case

“The death of any citizen is a sad event, even when the deceased is breaking the law and placing others in danger,” Thomas wrote. He said the officer is “a citizen as well, and it is apparent (he) was attempting to do his job and following all established training and protocols.”

Thomas wrote that the "bullet" referred to by Smith "turned out to be a gear-shift handle, manufactured to resemble a revolver cartridge with visible bullets." A controlled substance was found inside the object, and in Smith's system, he added.

Deputy Chief Mark Vollmar of the Muncie Police Department said he wanted to review the prosecutor’s report before commenting on the case, or the report’s impact on the officer’s job status.

The officer in recent months has been assigned to non-patrol duties such as office work.

Muncie officials reflect on a deadly week

Delaware County Prosecutor Jeffrey Arnold had requested a special prosecutor determine what charges, if any, should be filed in Smith’s death. Two members of Arnold’s staff were related to Smith.

In three other police-action shootings this year, Arnold’s staff determined that officers – city patrolmen in two of the cases and Delaware County sheriff’s deputies in the third – had been justified in using their firearms.

Contact news reporter Douglas Walker at (765) 213-5851. Follow him on Twitter: @DouglasWalkerSP.