Update: The Kansas Bureau of Investigation says a fatal deputy-involved shooting in McPherson County was the result of an arrest warrant.

The KBI released new details Friday about what led up to the shooting. It says two McPherson County deputies attempted to serve an arrest warrant to a man around 3:00 p.m. Thursday. When the deputies tried to make an arrest, the man physically resisted and began fighting the deputies, according to the KBI.

During the fight, the KBI says one deputy tried to deploy his Taser multiple times, but it didn't work, and the man continued to resist, hitting one of the deputies in the face several times. The KBI says the second deputy told the man to stop, but he wouldn't, and instead approached the second deputy and physically attacked him then continued punching the first deputy.

That's when the KBI says the second deputy deployed his service weapon, and struck the man. The man was taken to McPherson Memorial Hospital, where he later died.

Family members identified the man was 54-year-old Jeff Robertson of McPherson and say he was mentally ill.

The KBI says the incident was captured on video, that will be reviewed as part of the investigation.

-----

The scene just east of McPherson near 19th Avenue and Highway 56 was cleared about 7 p.m. Thursday, about four hours after a deputy-involved shooting was reported. The KBI is investigating this case.

As of Thursday night, officials aren't saying how it happened, but the Kansas Highway Patrol says a suspect was shot.

The McPherson County Sheriff's Office says there's no danger to the community, but the fact that the shooting occurred where it did has neighbors worried.

"It's very unnerving. I mean, it's just a few hundred feet out there," said Debbie Furgason, who lives near the scene.

Law enforcement officers were combing around the ditch along Highway 56, looking for evidence in the shooting that involved a McPherson County Sheriff's deputy. It happened in the middle of the afternoon on a busy highway.

A sheriff's office vehicle ended up in the ditch and a red pickup truck ended up on the side of the road.

While officials aren't yet saying how it happened, Ferguson says the fact the shooting occurred outside her door is what scares her, especially she says, because she has children living with her.

"That's just scary because I don't want them to get hurt," she said.

-----

Update-- 8:15 p.m.: A Kansas Highway Patrol dispatcher confirms a suspect was shot in Thursday's officer-involved shooting. The condition of the suspect has not been disclosed.

-----

Update-- 6 p.m. The investigation into the deputy-involved shooting in McPherson County has been turned over to the KBI. A McPherson County Sheriff's deputy vehicle and a red pickup truck are parked on the side of the road, off Highway 56. There is crime scene tape around those two vehicles.

Eyewitness News has not confirmed any injuries. Traffic is moving through the area.

-----

Multiple agencies, including Kansas Highway Patrol troopers are responding to a deputy-involved shooting in McPherson County at 19th Avenue and Highway 56.

The McPherson County Sheriff's Office confirms the shooting involves a McPherson County Sheriff's deputy.

The initial call was made at 3 p.m.

We have a crew headed to the scene to collect further information.