Lake County coroner's office: Fugitive shot himself in head

Gerald B. Boyes, left, and Billie Potter were discovered murdered April 12 in Kentucky. Boyes' son was suspected in the crime and was shot to death by police near Antioch early Saturday. Courtesy of McCracken County Sheriff's Department

Fugitive Gerald R. Boyes was fatally shot by police outside Toppers Sports Bar near Antioch early Saturday after he brandished a gun, authorities said.

A fugitive murder suspect shot himself once in the head during a fatal confrontation with police outside a Lake County bar last weekend, authorities said Thursday.

But it's not yet clear if that was the bullet that killed 53-year-old Gerald R. Boyes. He also was shot multiple times by sheriff's deputies who had surrounded his car in an attempt to arrest him early Saturday.

Investigators looked at Boyes' handgun, his hands, the bullet trajectory and other evidence Thursday to conclude Boyes fired the shot, Lake County Chief Deputy Coroner Orlando Portillo said.

Boyes, of Florida, also was shot in the torso and arms by the deputies who authorities say opened fire after he pointed a gun at them from inside a stolen 2015 Ford Flex. Investigators don't yet know whether he shot himself before or after the deputies fired, Portillo said.

"And we may not be able to," he said. "You're talking seconds."

Portillo declined to say how many gunshot wounds Boyes suffered.

Toxicology test results and other parts of the investigation are pending, Portillo said. It may be six or eight weeks until the case is closed, he said.

The Lake County Major Crimes Task Force is investigating the shooting. A representative couldn't be reached for comment.

Boyes was shot to death about 12:15 a.m. Saturday while four deputies from the Lake County and McHenry County sheriff's offices were trying to arrest him outside Toppers Sports Bar, 26211 Route 173, in Antioch Township. He was wanted on a Florida warrant for a parole violation.

Boyes also was a suspect in the April 11 murders of his father and his father's longtime girlfriend in McCracken County, Kentucky. Boyes used a hammer to kill his 73-year-old father, Gerald B. Boyes, and 67-year-old Billie Potter, police said.

The slayings followed a dispute about money and his late brother's estate, McCracken County Sheriff Jon Hayden said.

Boyes was raised in the Chicago area and formerly lived near Antioch. The elder Boyes and Potter moved to Kentucky from the Antioch area last year, police said.

Boyes had an extensive criminal history, including arrests in Illinois and Florida, and he spent more than 20 years imprisoned in Florida, records show.

His late brother, 50-year-old Gregory Boyes, was an Antioch motorcyclist who police say was struck and killed by a drunken driver in Lake County in August 2015. The driver fled the scene but now faces charges, police said.

Police haven't determined why Gerald Boyes was in Antioch last week. They traced him to the Chicago area after he pawned his dead father's wallet at a pawnshop in Villa Park a few days after the murders.

Boyes also had prescription medication belonging to his father when he was shot by police, and bloodstained pants were found in the stolen car in which he died, authorities said.

The four deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation, authorities said. That's a standard move during a police-involved shooting.

The McHenry County deputies are 9- and 23-year veterans serving with the sheriff's apprehension unit, a spokeswoman said. The Lake County deputies are with the sheriff's warrants division. One has been with the department 10 years and the other 11 years.

None of the deputies was injured during the confrontation with Boyes.