DAYTON, Ohio (WDTN) — A woman was killed in Dayton in an officer-involved shooting.

The Montgomery County Coroner’s Office confirmed the victim’s name is Kisha Arrone, 35. An autopsy is scheduled for Sunday.

Officers were called to the 3100 block of Wexford Place around 12:15 a.m. Sunday on reports of shots fired.

Picture of Kisha Arrone, 35, who was killed in an officer-involved shooting. (Photo provided by Arrone’s family)

Witnesses reported Arrone was involved in a violent encounter with a domestic partner. They said during the altercation Arrone held a gun to her partner’s head and threatened to kill her. Police said during the struggle, Arrone fired the gun.

Police said they then tried to stop Arrone from fleeing in a blue and silver pickup. Officers said she refused to stop and fled through a neighborhood. Officers used spike strips to deflate the tires on her truck, and she eventually stopped in front of the 3100 block of Wexford Place.

Police said Arrone remained in her truck and held a gun to her head.

Police ordered Arrone to get out of the truck and drop the gun. Officials said Arrone got out of the truck but still had the gun in her hand and refused to drop it. Police stated Arrone fired the gun in the air while walking towards her domestic partner and a group of people.

Officials said in an effort to protect the people on scene, three Dayton Police officers fired their weapons to stop Arrone and fatally shot her.

Dayton Police Homicide Unit, as well as the Professional Standards Bureau will conduct an independent investigation of this incident.

All three officers will be placed on administrative leave pending the initial review of the incident, which is standard protocol.

A cousin of Arrone’s spoke with 2 NEWS about the incident. Monique Spears wishes police would have done something other than shooting her cousin to death.

“It was calm to the point to where the police were called. They could have apprehended her peacefully. To draw guns and shoot my cousin 15 times. That’s overkill,” Spears said.

Dayton Police have scheduled a news conference on Monday at 2 p.m. to provide more detail on the incident.