ST. LOUIS • Officials confirmed Wednesday that Jorevis Scruggs, who would have turned 16 on Sunday and formerly attended the Innovative Concept Academy, was the teen fatally shot in a confrontation with St. Louis police the day before.

Dr. Michael Graham, the medical examiner, said the preliminary cause of death was a single shot to the back. He said it entered Jorevis’ body in the middle of the right side of his back and traveled through both lungs and his heart in an upward trajectory.

The officer’s attorney, Brian Millikan, said Wednesday that his client had seen Jorevis pointing a gun at him from Jorevis’ right hand while he started to run away.

“We’re not sure if the suspect fired or not, but that’s when the policeman fired,” Millikan said. “It’s perfectly consistent with a transverse shot.”

Graham said that so far, “Everything I’ve seen is consistent with the officer’s account.”

“As I understand it, the kid was running with his arm up shooting or pointing the gun at the officer, who was kind of behind him,” Graham said.

Police have not said whether Jorevis fired the gun. Chief Sam Dotson said Tuesday that a gun had been found “in close proximity to his body.”

Jorevis, of the 4500 block of Fair Avenue, was a tenth-grader at Vashon High School until January, when he was transferred to Innovative Concept Academy, said Patrick Wallace, St. Louis Public Schools spokesman. Grief counselors were available at both schools.

The teen was withdrawn from the district on Friday for “whereabouts unknown” after his mother reported to the district that he was missing, Wallace said.

Jorevis was a passenger inside a car Tuesday, which was reported stolen Monday night in a carjacking, officials said.

Officers spotted the car just before noon Tuesday and pursued it for about two minutes. Police said the driver stopped in an alley behind the 3200 block of St. Louis Avenue, between Bacon Street and Garrison Avenue, and let Jorevis and a back-seat passenger out before taking off again.

The two ran in different directions, police said, but not before Jorevis pointed a handgun at an officer. One officer shot Jorevis, and another officer used a Taser to subdue the other person, a man, 19, who has not been publicly identified, officials said.

The driver abandoned the car about a mile away. Police said Wednesday that the driver was still at large.

The police officer who fired is a man, 30, with about 7½ years on the force. Under usual protocol, he has been put on administrative leave. The department has not released his name, nor has Millikan, his attorney.

“He’s shaken up as they always are,” Millikan said. “It’s definitely a tough situation.”

Alternative schools such as the Innovative Concept Academy are designed to help students who aren’t succeeding in traditional classrooms. Often, students are sent to alternative schools to address behavior issues rather than to suspend or expel them.

School officials will not release the cause for Jorevis’ transfer.

Friends and others posting on social media about the teen have spelled his name differently, including as Jarvis and Jorvis. Police, the medical examiner and school district officials spelled it Jorevis.

Makisha Gurlly, 18, said that Jorevis was her ex-boyfriend but that they had stayed in touch. She said she had once attended Vashon High.

Gurlly declined a phone interview but said in Facebook messages that Jorevis had kept to himself and that she didn’t know him to have had a gun.

She said he had been involved in stealing cars, but would not pull a gun on a police officer because, “That’s basically saying (expletive) my life.”

“He was loved by a lot of people, but after he left Vashon a lot of stuff changed,” she wrote. “People just stopped talking to him like they used to, so he just was hanging with his family and after a while we got into it for a while but something was telling me, ‘Tell him how you feel before it’s too late’ and it hurt me because he was coming to see me yesterday.”

Kim Bell of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.