Authorities today released the name of a Guntersville man who died following a two-county shooting spree and a chase with multiple law enforcement officers.

Blount County Coroner John Mark Vaughn identified the man as Daniel Eric Blackmon. He was 38.

The body of the commercial truck driver, who was in a pickup truck on Tuesday, has been sent to Huntsville for an autopsy. Vaughn said they hope to know this afternoon whether he died from gunshot wounds, injuries sustained in the crash or a combination of both.

Authorities say Blackmon went on his crime spree early Tuesday, though they don't yet know a motive. It began in Marshall County where authorities say he fired on a cement truck. No one was injured.

A short time later, about 7 a.m., Blount County 911 received reports of a white male in a cowboy hat and pickup truck firing at motorists at an intersection on U.S. 278.

Kent said the gunman pulled up to the intersection, stuck a shotgun out of the window and began firing. He's just going around shooting,'' Blount County sheriff's Operations Officer Tim Kent said Tuesday. "There's no rhyme or reason."

Two men and a woman inside their vehicles were wounded. They were taken to local hospitals with injuries that weren't life-threatening.

The gunman then fled down Rocky Hollow Road, where he started shooting again, Kent said. At least one more car was struck at that time. Lawmen put the Blount County schools on lockdown and searched the area. They issued lookout bulletins to nearby counties, and asked everyone to be aware and take precautions.

Authorities say Blackmon then went back to Marshall County where he shot someone in the chest. He changed trucks at one point.

A short time later, Blackmon was spotted on U.S. 231. Officers tried to stop him but he refused and the chase was on. Law enforcement agencies involved in the pursuit included Blount County and Marshall County sheriff's deputies, Snead police and Blountsville police. Authorities said Blackmon was armed with the shotgun and a handgun. Kent said the man fired at officers during the chase.

Blackmon's truck crashed at U.S. 278 near Alabama 79. There was a shootout between lawmen and Blackmon after the crash, and Blackmon was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is heading the investigation into the officer-involved shooting. "Marshal County and Blount County Sheriff's Departments, along with numerous other local law enforcement agencies, are assisting in the effort of piecing together today's chain of events to include determining the total number and severity of injuries,'' Senior Trooper Chuck Daniel said in a prepared statement Tuesday afternoon.

Court records don't reflect any violent criminal history for Blackmon. He had multiple traffic violations, including being in possession of alcohol in a vehicle, eluding police and DUI but those charges were dismissed. He did have a conviction for reckless driving.

On Monday, the Marshall County probate judge sealed Blackmon's commitment records at the request of his attorney, R. Stan Morris.

The records were sealed to protect Blackmon's privacy rights under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the order stated.

Blackmon was also considered a person of interest in the April 10 fire that partially destroyed Cedar Grove Church of Christ in Guntersville, according to Stephen Holmes of the Alabama Fire Marshal's Office.

Holmes said Blackmon lived near the church.