JOSEPH P. SMITH

@JPSMITH_DJ

BRIDGETON – A Vineland police officer acted lawfully last April in fatally shooting an armed robbery suspect, the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office announced on Thursday.

Evidence indicates the suspect fired first during a nighttime foot pursuit through a Center City Vineland neighborhood, the Prosecutor’s Office said in a statement.

The prosecutor’s determination was based on an investigation it did in conjunction with New Jersey State Police into the death of Richard Bard Jr., 31, of Bridgeton. The reasons for the determination are laid out in a four-page statement signed by county Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae.

The Prosecutor’s Office states that a total of four shots were fired, in just 4 seconds, in the exchange between the officer and Bard. The news release precisely gives the time of the day. The timeline appears to indicate the exchange was captured on radio, but the office would not further comment.

The shooting took place a little after 1 a.m. Sunday, April 16, 2016 near South East Avenue and Montrose Street. Reports of multiple gunshots, later connected to a violent mugging on the 500 block of South Seventh Street near Cherry Street, had brought police to the area.

More:Family sues Vineland for death of alleged armed mugger

More:Suspect in violent mugging wants evidence tossed

Arriving officers spotted two men nearby and, when the men ran, pursued them. Authorities say the two men were Bard and John Bain, a 31-year-old Vineland resident.

An officer who was chasing Bard believed the man was using his right hand to put something in his waistband, and he ordered Bard to stop and to show his hands.

At that point, according to the statement, the officer drew his pistol and activated its flashlight. He then saw Bard had a pistol and yelled “gun! while simultaneously ducking” to avoid potential fire.

At that point, Bard fired once with the bullet passing close to the left side of the officer’s head. The officer then fired twice, with Bard then firing the final bullet.

“One of the shots fired by Officer No. 1 struck Bard, who fell along a fence line on the corner of South East Avenue and Montrose Street,” the release states. “At 1:02:38 a.m., two seconds after the last shot, Officer No. 1 radioed: `Shots fired! Shots fired! I got one down.’ A responding officer asked Bard if he had been shot; Bard responded ‘Yeah.’”

The account continues: “At 1:03:35 a.m., Officer No. 1 asked Bard, in the presence of responding officers, ‘Why did you shoot at me? You shot at me, man.’”

Bard was taken to Inspira Health Network Vineland where he was pronounced dead at 2:05 a.m.

The statement does not identify the officer who shot Bard. It gives the cause of death for Bard as a gunshot wound to one thigh.

Authorities two days later arrested and charged Bain as that second suspect. He was indicted early in 2017.

According to the statement, a six-shot, Smith & Wesson revolver found near Bard had DNA matching that of the mugging victim. The victim was an elderly man who was pistol whipped about the head in the course of being robbed by two men. His cellphone and a $115 money order were stolen.

The prosecutor’s statement mentions a second suspect but does not identify the suspect by name. The office would not confirm that Bain is the suspect.

In the mugging, two friends and co-workers tried to break up the assault. They drove at the suspects in a pickup truck and told police that one of the suspects shot at them multiple times.

According to the statement, six expended cartridges were in the revolver found near Bard.

Bain is scheduled to appear Friday afternoon in Cumberland County Superior Court on a motion to suppress evidence in the case.

According to Thursday’s release, Bard and a second person were at a party at an apartment on Florence Avenue on Saturday night, April 16 and left it together sometime between 11 p.m. and midnight.

Joseph P. Smith; (856) 563-5252; jsmith@gannettnj.com