New Mexico State Police are investigating a possible murder-suicide situation involving a Silver City police captain.Authorities were called to 1304 Serrina Court at about 5 p.m. Thursday after it was reported that off-duty Silver City police Capt. Marcello Contreras, 41, had fatally shot his girlfriend Nikki Bascom, 31, and then shot himself.Prior to the arrival of NMSP units, Silver City police officers responded to the call. Grant County Sheriff's deputies worked to secure the scene.The investigation was subsequently turned over to the New Mexico State Police.State police investigators learned Contreras and Bascom had been in a relationship and were in the process of separating. At about 4 p.m. Thursday, a man witnessed Contreras arriving at the address. The witness approached Contreras, who then pointed a gun at the him. Contreras demanded to speak with Bascom, who was inside a vehicle in the driveway.The witness negotiated with Contreras, who eventually agreed to surrender the gun to him. Bascom then exited the vehicle.Contreras produced a second gun and fatally shot Bascom several times before turning the firearm on himself.The witness called 911 and attempted to provide rescue aid to Bascom. Contreras and Bascom died at the scene.The New Mexico State Police Investigations Bureau Crime Scene Team processed the scene and collected evidence. Investigators are continuing to gather information related to the case.

New Mexico State Police are investigating a possible murder-suicide situation involving a Silver City police captain.

Authorities were called to 1304 Serrina Court at about 5 p.m. Thursday after it was reported that off-duty Silver City police Capt. Marcello Contreras, 41, had fatally shot his girlfriend Nikki Bascom, 31, and then shot himself.



Prior to the arrival of NMSP units, Silver City police officers responded to the call. Grant County Sheriff's deputies worked to secure the scene.

Advertisement

The investigation was subsequently turned over to the New Mexico State Police.



State police investigators learned Contreras and Bascom had been in a relationship and were in the process of separating.

At about 4 p.m. Thursday, a man witnessed Contreras arriving at the address. The witness approached Contreras, who then pointed a gun at the him. Contreras demanded to speak with Bascom, who was inside a vehicle in the driveway.



The witness negotiated with Contreras, who eventually agreed to surrender the gun to him. Bascom then exited the vehicle.

Contreras produced a second gun and fatally shot Bascom several times before turning the firearm on himself.

The witness called 911 and attempted to provide rescue aid to Bascom.

Contreras and Bascom died at the scene.



The New Mexico State Police Investigations Bureau Crime Scene Team processed the scene and collected evidence. Investigators are continuing to gather information related to the case.