Garrett Mitchell

The Republic | azcentral.com

A deadly exchange of gunfire at a Chandler Walmart in April lasted about 10 seconds, according to new material released by authorities.

Killed was a 24-year-old trespassing suspect who was shot inside the big-box store after opening fire on the two Chandler police officers interviewing him.

Mitchell Oakley shot Officers Joshua Pueblo and Daniel Colwell, then attempted to flee; Oakley was shot five times by Colwell as he was running out of the store, according to a Chandler Police Department report released Wednesday.

Chandler's report on the April 23, 2016, confrontation ran for 288 pages, detailing the events leading up to the fatal shooting. On Tuesday, the department also released harrowing surveillance footage showing the exchange of gunfire.

Reports on police shootings in the county are all reviewed by the Maricopa County Attorney's Office. The Walmart shooting remains under review, a county attorney's spokeswoman said Wednesday.

10 seconds of terror

According to the police narrative, about 6:21 a.m., officers received a non-emergency call for service from the assistant manager at the Walmart at 1175 S. Arizona Ave. She asked for assistance with a man who previously was caught trespassing April 6 who was now back inside the store.

Oakley had received a trespassing notice for the earlier incident but continued showing up on the property and would leave before police could arrive, the manager told investigators.

Oakley was recognized by store employees and was followed to the men's restroom before Colwell approached him in front of the interior McDonald's restaurant.

Colwell spoke to Oakley for about 6 minutes and conducted a check for active warrants against him about 6:37 a.m. A dispatcher told Colwell that Oakley and another person were seen in the area the previous evening with a new bicycle with Walmart price tags attached and that he'd been banned — a claim that Oakley denied.

The report said that after Officer Pueblo arrived, Oakley stood up from a bench within the restaurant, reached for a gun in his back waistband and opened fire at the officers.

"He immediately fired multiple shots at Officer Colwell and Officer Pueblo before they had a time to react to the threat," the report said.

Both officers immediately fell to the ground. Pueblo, who was shot in the face, arm and back, retreated to cover without returning fire. He was assisted by a Walmart employee who handed him towels to control his bleeding and a citizen who helped render aid with paper towels.

Colwell, who was shot twice in his ballistic vest, took 2 seconds to return fire from the ground as Oakley started fleeing the store with the gun in his hand.

One of the shots struck Oakley's handgun and finger, causing Oakley to drop the weapon as he headed toward the door. Within 5 seconds, he picked it up before falling face-down near the entrance after sustaining five gunshot wounds in the back of his body.

Only 10 seconds elapsed between Oakley's first shot and Colwell's final shot, the record said.

"Help me, help me ... shots fired ... Shot in the face, bleeding heavily," Pueblo stated in a radio transmission after Oakley fell to the ground, police records state.

Oakley was pronounced dead at the scene.

Pueblo and Colwell were transported to the Chandler Regional Medical Center. Colwell was released from the hospital the same day with a bruised torso.

Pueblo was released from the hospital April 29.

Colwell has returned to full duty; Pueblo remains on light duty, according to a Chandler police spokesman.

Family: Oakley was homeless, frustrated he couldn't find work

Oakley was on parole after his March 2015 release from the Arizona Department of Corrections.

In January 2015, Oakley pleaded no contest to destruction of a public jail and to vehicle theft, offenses from 2011 and 2012, respectively. He was sentenced to 1½ years in prison, to be served concurrently with a 2¼-year sentence for attempted aggravated assault, in addition to two years of probation for a drug charge, according to court and corrections records.

He served a couple of months in prison after having spent 990 days in a Maricopa County jail.

Online minute entries from Maricopa County Superior Court show that Oakley was part of a years-long legal battle over whether he could understand the criminal proceedings and aid in his own defense.

He was committed to the Maricopa County Correctional Health Services restoration program for treatment after two experts determined him not competent to stand trial. Oakley's competency was restored two months later. That was later challenged but ultimately upheld.

His most recent legal proceedings were for probation violations after he had failed to pay court-ordered fees, records show.

In a phone interview Wednesday, Patrick Oakley said his son was "never the same" after leaving the Lower Buckeye Jail.

"Sometimes he'd be talking to himself. I don't know what happened to him in there. I honestly think they took him for a joke in there and never provided him services," Patrick Oakley said.

The 24-year-old was frustrated he couldn't find a steady job due to his felony conviction, his parents said. In an interview with the Chandler police, Oakley's mother, Laura, said he would make comments from time to time saying he did not want to go back to jail.

Oakley's parents told investigators his mother tried to get Oakley's probation officer to get him mental-health treatment; his mother said she was concerned when he would talk to himself and made threats to kill her. She thought he had bipolar disorder but he never had been diagnosed or treated by any particular doctor, according to the police report.

They told police they had to practice "tough love" with both of their sons as neither was employed. They were kicked out of the house and would come back periodically to stay a night or two but then retreated to living on the streets.

His parents described him as being in a great mood when he was at their house the night before the shooting. Patrick recounted dropping off Oakley that night at the Walmart where the shooting occurred. He said he was unaware of his son being banned from the premises.

Sibling was worried about Oakley possessing the gun

Oakley's half brother, Brian Wainscott, told police the two were homeless and that Oakley had a "camp" set up near an abandoned mattress store in Chandler. He described Oakley's behavior as erratic, including usage of profane language, loud and sometimes delusional comments, talking to himself and making false statements of grandeur. He also tended to possess items that didn't belong to him, Wainscott said.

Wainscott met Oakley the night before in the Walmart parking lot, and Oakley pulled out a gun from a bush. He said he was unsure if it was real and Oakley told him he'd bought it off the website Backpage.com for $200. The two were contacted by police, but after officers found no warrants the officers left without incident, Wainscott said. After they left, Wainscott said, Oakley began mumbling about not going back to jail.

Wainscott told police he was worried about Oakley facing severe consequences for being a prohibited possessor and thought "it was just a bad idea for Mitchell to have a gun," he told police after the shooting.

About 1 a.m. April 23, Wainscott told police he went to Oakley's camp to get the gun away from his half brother but decided to let him sleep. When he returned in the morning about 6 a.m., he said, Oakley and his belongings were gone.

Nearly 30 minutes later, the gunfight ensued and his half brother was dead.

Officer recounts what preceded shooting

During a June 3 interview with investigators, Pueblo recalled Colwell having a "good rapport" with Oakley, so he said he hung back behind Colwell.

Colwell asked Oakley to take off his backpack but then ordered in a commanding voice, "Don't reach for that!"

Pueblo looked over toward Oakley to see what was going on seconds before he was shot in the face with a Ruger LCP firearm, he told investigators.

"I felt like it knocked out my vision. I spun around, kind of went to the ground and I retreated for cover. I was listening for him (Colwell) to say something on the radio. I didn't hear anything so I went to hit the emergency button," he told investigators.

"... I was thinking I know I was hit and there was a lot of blood, but I knew I was responsive. Everything was still there. I was spitting out blood, clearing my throat. I had no idea where I was hit. I just knew there was a lot of blood. I was responsive enough to know that the only way I was going down was if I bled out."