Man shot by deputy 2 weeks ago near Walmart dies, coroner says

A 53-year-man who was shot two weeks ago by a Greenville County deputy near a Walmart store has died, according to Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans. Reginald Darnell Dogan was shot by a deputy on May 2, according to Sheriff Steve Loftis.Loftis said Dogan was shot in the neck. The coroner said he died as a result of his injury on Wednesday.Dogan walked toward the deputy with a gun, according to Sgt. Jennings Autrey with the Greenville County Sheriff's Office.Autrey said just before 7:30 p.m. on May 2 deputies received a call about a person waving around a gun near the intersection of East Warehouse Court and Artillery Road.Dogan lived on West Warehouse Court, according to Loftis. The first deputy to respond found Dogan armed on Tappan Drive near Wade Hampton Boulevard, Autrey said. This is near the Walmart.After making contact with Dogan, the deputy asked for backup and another deputy responded, Autrey said.When the second deputy arrived, Dogan began walking toward the deputy, according to Autrey. The deputy repeatedly told the man to get to the ground and he refused, according to Autrey. Fearing for his life, the backup deputy fired at Dogan and struck him at least once in the neck, Autrey said. Thom Berry with the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division saidagents are assisting with the investigation.There is no dash cam or body camera video of the shooting, according to SLED officials.The deputy who fired his service weapon has been placed on administrative duty, which is standard procedure with a deputy-involved shooting, Autrey said.According to SLED, this was the 14th officer-involved shooting in South Carolina in 2016 and the 3rd involving a Greenville County deputy.

A 53-year-man who was shot two weeks ago by a Greenville County deputy near a Walmart store has died, according to Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans.

Reginald Darnell Dogan was shot by a deputy on May 2, according to Sheriff Steve Loftis.

Advertisement

Loftis said Dogan was shot in the neck. The coroner said he died as a result of his injury on Wednesday.

Dogan walked toward the deputy with a gun, according to Sgt. Jennings Autrey with the Greenville County Sheriff's Office.

Autrey said just before 7:30 p.m. on May 2 deputies received a call about a person waving around a gun near the intersection of East Warehouse Court and Artillery Road.

Dogan lived on West Warehouse Court, according to Loftis.

The first deputy to respond found Dogan armed on Tappan Drive near Wade Hampton Boulevard, Autrey said. This is near the Walmart.

After making contact with Dogan, the deputy asked for backup and another deputy responded, Autrey said.

When the second deputy arrived, Dogan began walking toward the deputy, according to Autrey. The deputy repeatedly told the man to get to the ground and he refused, according to Autrey. Fearing for his life, the backup deputy fired at Dogan and struck him at least once in the neck, Autrey said.

Thom Berry with the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division said

agents are assisting with the investigation.

There is no dash cam or body camera video of the shooting, according to SLED officials.

The deputy who fired his service weapon has been placed on administrative duty, which is standard procedure with a deputy-involved shooting, Autrey said.

According to SLED, this was the 14th officer-involved shooting in South Carolina in 2016 and the 3rd involving a Greenville County deputy.