Authorities on Tuesday identified the man shot and killed by St. Paul police on Monday as Jaffort Demont Smith.

Smith, 33, of St. Paul, died of gunshot wounds, according to a news release from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA), which is investigating the shooting.

Police shot Smith about 3:30 a.m. in the 700 block of Buffalo Street after he fired on them and ignored repeated orders to drop his weapon, said the BCA news release. Smith also had fired at and injured a woman who was with him.

The four officers who fired their weapons were identified as John Corcoran, an 18-year veteran of the force; Mark Grundhauser, a four-year veteran; Jeffery Korus, a five-year veteran; and Michael Tschida, who has been with the department six years.

The officers are on administrative leave, which is standard in such cases.

A woman reached by phone Tuesday who identified herself as Smith’s mother declined to comment.

Interim Police Chief Kathy Wuorinen issued a written statement Tuesday commending the officers’ work.

“The officers involved in this incident acted bravely in the face of incredible danger,” Wuorinen said. “Even while being shot at, they were able to rescue a woman from harm’s way.”

According to the BCA:

Before Smith’s fatal encounter with police, he shot and wounded Beverly J. Flowers, 49, of St. Paul. She was taken to Regions Hospital and remains hospitalized. Their relationship to each other is unclear.

Flowers had entered Rapid Recovery Towing, located at 14 E. Acker St., shortly before 3:30 a.m. Smith followed her in, displayed a gun and took her outside.

It’s unclear what prompted the incident at the towing company.

Police responding to a 911 call that there was a man at the address with a gun spotted Smith and Flowers near the intersection of Acker Street E. and Buffalo Street. Smith shot Flowers and fled.

Police pursued Smith into a backyard, where the deadly encounter took place.

“Tragically, a man lost his life, a woman was critically injured, (and) both their families and our officers will have to carry that with them for the rest of their lives,” said Wuorinen’s statement. “No officer goes to work expecting to take a life, but they know it is a possibility.”

The BCA will forward its investigation, when completed, to the Ramsey County attorney’s office for charging consideration.

Twitter: @ChaoStrib