Chicago police shot and killed a man suspected of robbing his second bank in three days Monday after authorities say he pointed a gun at an officer who was chasing him on the Southwest Side.

The shooting in the Archer Heights neighborhood was the second by a Chicago police officer since last week.

Advertisement

Chicago Lawn District officers responded to a holdup alarm just after 10:30 a.m. at Byline Bank, 4970 S. Archer Ave., as a security guard chased the armed suspect out of the bank, according to Chicago police Superintendent Eddie Johnson.

The man was later identified as Michael D. Johnson, 26, of the 5500 block of West 63rd Street. He was pronounced dead at 11:37 a.m. at Mount Sinai. An autopsy Tuesday determined he died from multiple gunshot wounds.

Advertisement

The officers chased the suspect about a block across Pulaski Road and into the 4900 block of South Karlov Avenue, Johnson said. Officers ran into a gangway between buildings, and the robber turned around with a gun and an officer shot and killed him, the superintendent said.

The suspect was taken by ambulance from 4949 S. Karlov to Mount Sinai Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, police said. No officers were injured.

Johnson said a gun was found at the scene and taken into evidence. It was not clear how much money was taken.

The shooting happened behind a home in the 4900 block of South Karlov, a block lined with bungalows and other single-family homes. Police cordoned off 50th Street for about a block west of Komensky Avenue.

There was a large police presence — many plainclothes officers wearing bulletproof vests — in the alley and in the front of the home on Karlov.

The man who was shot was a suspect in the robbery of another Byline Bank branch at 6257 S. Austin Ave. about 10:30 a.m. Saturday, Johnson said.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"The description is the same," Johnson said, flanked by other police officials as he addressed the media at 50th Street and Karlov. "He has distinctive shoes that he had on today. So we think the same individual committed a bank robbery a few days ago."

In that robbery, the man threatened workers, saying he had a weapon but not showing one, an FBI spokesman said Saturday. After taking money, the robber fled north through an alley.

Advertisement

The Independent Police Review Authority was investigating Monday's shooting by police. As is routine, the officer involved will be placed on administrative duties for 30 days.

The last shooting involving a Chicago police officer was on Friday morning in the West Pullman neighborhood on the Far South Side.

An officer with a federal task force shot a man wanted for robbery after the suspect pointed a gun at officers during a foot chase in the 11800 block of South Sangamon Street, authorities said. A loaded Bersa .380-caliber semi-automatic handgun was confiscated by police at that scene.

jgorner@tribpub.com

pnickeas@tribpub.com