Farm to Market Road 2259 was the scene of violence, beginning with an assault and ending with an officer-related shooting fatality. (Source: KTRE Staff)

Sheriff Jason Bridges is certain Stott’s mission was to get in a shootout with police. Three independent investigations will occur. (Source: KTRE Staff)

NACOGDOCHES, TX (KTRE) - Authorities are investigating a officer-involved shooting in Nacogdoches County Monday night which left a suspect dead.

A trooper and deputies fired at the man after he had pointed a rifle at them, which came after he had already fired a shotgun at them, according to the DPS report. The suspect has been identified as Jamie Stotts, 29.

"At the end of the day if that's his mission to get in a shootout with police, that's probably what's going to happen," said Nacogdoches County Sheriff Jason Bridges "And that's what basically we came to on this event."

The report states a deputy and trooper had responded to an assault on FM 2259 at 8:55 p.m. They located Stotts traveling on a motorcycle and tried to stop him on County Road 509, but he got away from them and went to his home on FM 2259.

"At that point the suspect drove all the way up, almost into his house, wrecked out under his carport," Bridges said. "The deputy gave chase and attempted to Tase the subject to stop him."

However, Bridges said Stotts was determined, saying he reached for a shotgun or rifle right inside the door.

"The suspect immediately grabbed that gun," Bridges said. "The deputy at that point fell back to seek cover."

Bridges said after a deputy constable arrived on the scene, Stotts fired a single round at the three officers at the scene. A short time later, Bridges and other officers arrived on the scene.

"We talked with him over the PA system for about 20 minutes," Bridges said.

The discussion could be heard by nearby residents of Community Estates.

"I seen about 15 police cars," said David Merland, a nearby resident. I heard a guy holler, a policeman holler, 'Put the gun down, and nobody will get hurt.'"

Bridges described the incident as a "suicide by cop."

"He just wouldn't put that gun down," Bridges said. "At that point, he raised the gun up, the rifle, and the officers and trooper responded to the threat and shots were fired on the suspect."

They took Stotts to a Nacogdoches hospital, where he died at 1:47 a.m. Tuesday.

Texas Rangers are investigating the shooting.

Copyright 2016 KTRE. All rights reserved.