The Weld District Attorney cleared two Greeley police officers who killed a man in Evans after a robbery and chase in May.

Michael Rourke’s office released a report on the incident Thursday afternoon that detailed the incident and explained why the district attorney believed the killing to be justified. The Critical Response Incident Team investigated the case.

Sean Mondragan, 24, of Alamosa was shot in the head six times after allegedly robbing three people at gunpoint in a bowling alley parking lot, evading arrest, hijacking a car, and threatening and shooting at police officers with a pistol and a sawed off shotgun. A toxicology report, released Tuesday in the official autopsy report, showed he had methamphetamines, marijuana and alcohol in his system at the time.

“The officers reasonably believed, at that time, based on all of the surrounding facts … that they were in imminent danger of death or serious injury,” the report reads.

The attorney’s office declined to release the officers’ names. The suspect had strong and documented ties to criminal gangs, according to the report.

“The continued safety of the officers and their families is of paramount concern in this case,” it reads.

Police say Mondragon robbed a woman at Chipper’s Classic Lanes, 2454 8th Ave., on May 11, then led police on a chase up toward Eaton and back, before he crashed his car at the intersection of U.S. 85 and 31st Street in Evans. He got out of the car and crossed the highway to steal a car at gunpoint. Two Greeley police officers approached him, weapons drawn.

One officer believed he saw the sawed-off shotgun pointed at them, according to the report. Another officer believed the suspect would flee again, posing a risk to the public.

One officer fired 12 rounds from a rifle, and the other fired three rounds from a semiautomatic handgun.

Officers began administering aid before Mondragon was taken to North Colorado Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

The critical response team investigation revealed the shotgun was still in the first car the suspect had used to flee, and a handgun was in center console of the car he had hijacked.

Mondragon had an active felony warrant with a bond of $100,000 issued by the Rio Grande County Sheriff’s Office for his involvement in an incident earlier this year, in which he tried to hit an officer with his vehicle in Monte Vista. The warrant was for the crimes of assault, obstructing a peace officer, driving under restraint and committing a crime of violence, according to a release from the Sheriff’s office.

Mondragon also had an active felony warrant with no option for bond through the Department of Corrections for a parole violation. Mondragon was on parole for a burglary conviction out of Broomfield.

“The officers’ actions in this situation were justified and authorized by law in order to defend and protect themselves and others from the lawless and dangerous actions of Mr. Mondragon,” Rourke’s report stated. “In fact, it is likely the officers’ actions prevented serious bodily injury or death. As a result, the Weld County District Attorney’s Office will not file charges against Officer 1 or 2 for the use of deadly physical force in this event.”