A man was found dead inside a Grafton hotel Wednesday night after a standoff with police, officials said.Grafton police identified the man Thursday as 38-year-old Michael Kennedy, of South Milwaukee. Officers had been trying to reach Kennedy, who they believed had been involved in an incident earlier Wednesday.Saukville police were called around 4 p.m. regarding a possible burglary. Officers believed Kennedy broke into a woman's house, held her at gunpoint and forced her to drive him around. Police said she was released without being hurt.Grafton police later noticed a car they believed to have been involved in the Saukville incident parked at the Hampton Inn south of Washington Street at Interstate 43.VIDEO: Officers find man dead after standoffPolice from both police departments tried to reach Kennedy, who they suspected had been driving the vehicle around 6:40 p.m."The officers went up there (to the third floor) and tried to make initial contact and heard one shot. They went back and got additional equipment, tried to make a second contact and heard a second shot," Grafton police Capt. Joseph Gabrish said.Scott Lewis was there when officers entered the hotel in tactical gear, some carrying shields and high-powered weapons. There were "a handful of emergency vehicles out front" during the incident, Lewis said.SWAT moved in, but it was too late. Kennedy was found dead in the bathroom from a self-inflicted gun wound."Those are intense moments. They're dangerous moments. It took a great deal of courage for our officers to do that. Unfortunately, the person was deceased within," Gabrish said. Get the WISN 12 NEWS app

A man was found dead inside a Grafton hotel Wednesday night after a standoff with police, officials said.



Grafton police identified the man Thursday as 38-year-old Michael Kennedy, of South Milwaukee.

Advertisement Related Content Shots fired inside Hampton Inn and Suites in Grafton

Officers had been trying to reach Kennedy, who they believed had been involved in an incident earlier Wednesday.

Saukville police were called around 4 p.m. regarding a possible burglary. Officers believed Kennedy broke into a woman's house, held her at gunpoint and forced her to drive him around. Police said she was released without being hurt.

Grafton police later noticed a car they believed to have been involved in the Saukville incident parked at the Hampton Inn south of Washington Street at Interstate 43.

VIDEO: Officers find man dead after standoff

Police from both police departments tried to reach Kennedy, who they suspected had been driving the vehicle around 6:40 p.m.



"The officers went up there (to the third floor) and tried to make initial contact and heard one shot. They went back and got additional equipment, tried to make a second contact and heard a second shot," Grafton police Capt. Joseph Gabrish said.

Scott Lewis was there when officers entered the hotel in tactical gear, some carrying shields and high-powered weapons. There were "a handful of emergency vehicles out front" during the incident, Lewis said.

SWAT moved in, but it was too late. Kennedy was found dead in the bathroom from a self-inflicted gun wound.

"Those are intense moments. They're dangerous moments. It took a great deal of courage for our officers to do that. Unfortunately, the person was deceased within," Gabrish said.



