Advertisement Grand jury rules officers' actions justified in death of Joshua Beebee OPD: Man shot by police officer hit at least six times Share Copy Link Copy

Update: A grand jury has come to a decision regarding the death of Joshua Beebee, 31, who died May 20 near 165th and West Maple Road. The jury determined that Beebee's cause of death was a gunshot wound to the chest and that there was no criminal conduct on the part of any individual in his death. May 22: Omaha police say Officer Kenneth Rowe, a 19-year veteran, fired the shots that killed 31-year-old Joshua Beebee during a confrontation Friday morning at 165th and West Maple Road. In a news release Saturday, OPD said Rowe fired his Glock Model 17, 9mm service weapon seven times, striking Beebee at least six times. Beebee died half an hour after the shooting occurred. According to the news release, Rowe told investigators he fired out of fear for his own safety, and felt he had "no other option than deadly force." Police scanner traffic indicated an officer at the scene requested a Taser moments before the shooting occurred. Omaha Police have not addressed questions about the Taser. Beebee was carrying an eleven-inch kitchen knife and according to police, he charged at Officer Rowe after repeatedly refusing commands to drop the weapon. Witnesses had called police because they had seen Beebee walking in the area for some time with the knife. Friday, in another news release, Omaha police said the shooting was justified after reviewing video tape by police and witnesses. Relatives of Beebee felt police should have exercised other options before using deadly force. “This is no just killing. This was murder,” said Jewel Lykens, the man’s sister. “Seven times in the middle of an empty field. Over a kitchen knife.” Lykens said she can’t see her brother as a threat, because when she looks at photos of her younger brother, she sees a father of three children, a musician, and a man who could make anyone laugh. Lykens said her brother had a tough life, but more than anything, he needed help. “Everybody has a past. That doesn't incriminate anybody. It shouldn't make up their future. It shouldn't get them murdered,” Lykens said. According to federal court records obtained by KETV NewsWatch 7, Beebee was considered a threat to the community two years ago. Beebee was on supervised release following a conviction for possession of an unregistered short shotgun. According to a court petition, Beebee failed to enter a substance abuse program, abused alcohol and cocaine, and had a history of violence. In 2015, another court petition seeking a warrant for Beebee indicated his whereabouts were "unknown". Officer Rowe is on paid administrative leave, which is Omaha Police Department policy. Under state law, a grand jury will investigate Beebee's death.