Hallandale Beach police early Monday identified Corey Clark as the officer involved in the shooting that left a man dead when investigators were answering a burglary call.

According to police, before dawn Sunday officers were responding to reports of a burglary in progress in the 100 block of Golden Isles Drive.

The man, identified as Michael Eugene Wilson Jr., 27, was shot sitting behind the wheel of a car as he and a suspected accomplice attempted to flee, police said. The accomplice has been identified by authorities as Tyler L. Shuman, 23.

Shuman was taken into custody following a search and, according to police, is charged with homicide and burglary of a conveyance.

At a Monday morning court hearing, Broward Circuit Judge Ari Porth ordered that Shuman be held without bond on a charge of felony murder.

Although Shuman is not accused of pulling the trigger, he remains legally responsible for Wilson’s death because the pair was committing a crime when the police officer fired the fatal shot.

“The shooting occured while the [Wilson] was driving his vehicle towards the officer, putting the officer in fear for his life at which point he opened fire, killing [Wilson],” prosecutor Eric Linder said. “As a result, [Wilson] was killed during the perpetration of a burglary of a convenyance.”

Clark, the shooter, was hired by Hallandale Beach in 2013, officials said.

“Clark] felt in fear for his life and the life of others and was forced to fire,” Maj. Sonia Quinones said on Sunday.

Shuman bailed out of the car and ran was found hiding in the neighborhood and taken into custody about two and half hours after the shooting, police said.

The incident began when police received a call at 4:22 a.m. that someone with a flashlight was looking into cars parked at 137 Golden Isles Dr., police said. Arriving officers found two men in a gray Toyota Corolla, Quinones said.

When Wilson attempted to flee, one officer fired at least one round, Quinones said. The car came to rest at 201 Golden Isles Dr., Quinones said.

Wilson was taken to Memorial Regional Hospital in Hollywood, where he was pronounced dead.

Police K-9 units from Hallandale Beach and Miramar police, along with a Broward Sheriff’s Office helicopter, were called in to hunt for the second man. Shuman was caught about 7:08 a.m. at 473 Golden Isles Dr., police said.

Police said there was evidence that several cars on the street had been broken into. Behind the Ocean View Towers building, at 401 Golden Isles, two cars, a silver BMW 328i and a black Mercedes-Benz S550, had been broken into.

The silver BMW had its passenger side window completely smashed out. Its owner was seen talking to detectives.

The Toyota Corolla in which Wilson died had several bullet holes in the driver’s side door.

After police towed that car from the scene, spray-painted markings on the street indicated that at least eight shots were fired. The Corolla apparently crossed the street and crashed into bushes in front of an apartment building at 201 Golden Isles Dr.

Ron Shaw, 66, who lives in the neighborhood, said he was awakened about 6:30 a.m. by the sound of helicopters above, and, “I went out to see what was going on. I stood around for about 40 minutes and all of a student there was a huge police presence, dogs, and a police boat in the canal” in addition to the helicopters.

At that point Shaw said that he saw officers coming out from behind a building at 473 Golden Isles Drive with a man in handcuffs.

“It was Hallandale police at their finest, you gotta give them a lot of credit,” Shaw said.

Clark will be placed on administrative leave with pay while an investigation into the incident continues, police said.

mwclary@tribune.com