FBI agents investigate inside the garage of a residence on Rich Court in Park Forest after two agents were wounded and a person was found dead in the home during the serving of an arrest warrant May 24, 2016. (Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune)

A reputed gang leader who was found dead by FBI agents after a gunbattle Tuesday in Park Forest committed suicide, the Cook County medical examiner's office said Wednesday afternoon.

Melvin Toran, 50, shot himself in his mouth, the medical examiner's office said. No further information was available.

Advertisement

Toran's death came after an FBI SWAT team descended on his house Tuesday morning to serve an arrest warrant. During the incident, two FBI agents were shot and wounded.

The FBI on Wednesday continued its investigation of the incident. The SWAT team went to Toran's south suburban home as part of federal sweep that targeted narcotics trafficking by members of the Black P Stone Nation and others. Toran was a reputed high-ranking member in the Black P Stone Nation gang.

Advertisement

FBI agents remained at the scene on Rich Court in Park Forest on Wednesday gathering evidence, according to agency spokesman Garrett Croon. An inspection team was reviewing the incident, and Croon said it would be "probably at least a couple weeks" for its review to be completed.

The wounded agents both suffered injuries that weren't life-threatening and were treated and released from local hospitals, Croon said Tuesday.

The attempted arrest of Toran stemmed from a two-year investigation code-named Operation Cornerstone.

Daily Southtown Twice-weekly News updates from the south suburbs delivered every Monday and Wednesday By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Authorities seized "distribution quantities" of cocaine and heroin, cash, and firearms in raids Tuesday as part of a probe that involved wiretapped cellphones and extensive surveillance, according to federal prosecutors.

Aside from Toran, federal agents and Chicago police arrested at least 10 suspects early Tuesday, including one in Minnesota and another in Indiana, law enforcement officials said.

Court records show that Toran had a long criminal record that began when he was arrested for murder in Cook County in 1984, when he was just 18. He pleaded guilty two years later and served a little more than half of his 20-year prison sentence before being paroled in the late 1990s, records show.

In July 1999, Toran was charged in Wisconsin with manufacturing and delivering heroin with intent to distribute, as well as using a dangerous weapon in furtherance of a crime, records show. He pleaded guilty to both counts and was sentenced to 14 years behind bars in January 2000.

According to online records with the Wisconsin Court of Appeals, Toran was paroled in February 2005. Three years later, he was convicted in Cook County of the aggravated assault of a police officer and weapons offenses and sentenced to another seven years in prison in Illinois, records show.

Advertisement

When he was released in that case, Toran was shipped back to a state prison in Wisconsin for violating the terms of his parole by picking up the Cook County arrest, records show. He filed an appeal of that decision, but in November 2012 the appellate court in Wisconsin upheld the sentence. He was finally released in February 2013.

Law enforcement officials gathered outside a home in Park Forest where two FBI officials serving an arrest warrant were shot and a suspect was found dead inside a home May 24, 2016. (WGN-TV/Chicago Tribune) (Chicago Tribune)

Dennis Sullivan is a freelance reporter. Chicago Tribune's Jason Meisner and Daily Southtown's Zak Koeske contributed.