Gary V. Murray

gary.murray@telegram.com

WORCESTER — Members of the state police Special Tactical Operations team have been cleared of any wrongdoing in the May 22, 2016, shooting death of Jorge A. Zambrano, the man authorities said shot and killed Auburn Police Officer Ronald Tarentino Jr. about 18 hours earlier, according to a report released Wednesday by District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr.

According to the six-page report on Mr. Early's investigation into the death of Mr. Zambrano after a daylong manhunt, the 35-year-old suspect failed to surrender himself peacefully after being located in an Oxford duplex and shot and wounded State Trooper A. J. Kardoos, before being shot to death himself. (This paragraph has been corrected.)

"Under the circumstances the Troopers acted reasonably and lawfully," the report states. The investigation into Mr. Zambrano's death was conducted by the district attorney's office, state police detectives assigned to the office, along with Auburn and Oxford police.

The fatal shooting of Mr. Zambrano at 31-33 Watch St. in Oxford occurred about 18 hours after police say the suspect shot and killed Officer Tartentino, a 42-year-old father of three, during a traffic stop on Rochdale Street in Auburn.

The shooting of Officer Tarentino occurred about 12:30 a.m., after he radioed dispatch that he was pulling over a 1997 Infiniti QX4 SUV bearing registration number 4PJX80 on Rochdale Street at Zabelle Avenue. A short time later the officer reported that shots had been fired and he had been hit. Arriving officers found him in his cruiser bleeding from at least two gunshot wounds, and he was taken to UMass Memorial Medical Center in Worcester, where he was later pronounced dead.

Investigators later learned that the vehicle in question had been stopped by state police six days earlier and that Mr. Zambrano had been the driver.

Later that day, investigators learned that Mr. Zambrano was at 31-33 Watch St. in Oxford. State and local police cleared the neighborhood near the Leicester-Oxford town line after obtaining a search warrant for the duplex and an arrest warrant for Mr. Zambrano for a violation of probation.

"The STOP Team entered the apartment at #31 and found it unoccupied. A search of the basement revealed that the suspect may have accessed the adjacent apartment through a breach in the common wall," according to Mr. Early's report. After entering 33 Watch St. and clearing the first floor, officers went to a second-floor bedroom. One trooper opened a closet door while another illuminated the closet with the light from his rifle.

"That trooper saw a black handgun between some hanging clothes, which was pointed at the trooper. Almost immediately a dog jumped out of the closet and the gun began firing at the troopers. One of the troopers observed a man crouched down on the floor of the closet. As the handgun began firing from the closet, flames were seen coming from the ejection port and muzzle of the gun," the report states.

Trooper Kardoos reported that he had been shot in the arm and the two troopers accompanying him returned fire with their Colt M-4 rifles, according to the district attorney's findings.

"The two other troopers returned fire with their rifles only after they were fired upon, resulting in the injuries that caused Jorge Zambrano's death. Trooper Kardoos was carrying a shotgun, which was not fired," the report states.

An autopsy determined that Mr. Zambrano died from gunshot wounds of the torso and extremities with injuries of the heart, lungs, liver and long bones.

The firearm Mr. Zambrano used was a .45-caliber Smith & Wesson semiautomatic pistol that had been reported stolen in a 2014 break-in in Athol, according to the report. Five .45-caliber shell casings found at the scene where Officer Tarentino was fatally shot matched the firearm found in Mr. Zambrano's hand in Oxford, the report states.

It goes on to say that after shooting Officer Tarentino multiple times and making several phone calls to family members "suggesting regret and disappointment," Mr. Zambrano fled to Oxford, where he concealed the vehicle he was driving at the time of the officer's shooting.

"Jorge Zambrano refused to surrender himself peacefully after multiple requests by the State Police, the use of verbal commands to surrender, the use of a robot, the use of chemical munitions and a K-9 dog," the report states. He was shot only after firing four or five rounds at the troopers, striking one of them in the arm, the investigation concluded.

"In these circumstances the use of deadly force was appropriate," the district attorney found.