Staff and wire reports

FLAGSTAFF — A Tuba City man who had brandished a handgun inside a conference center and while walking around a neighborhood on the edge of the Northern Arizona University campus was killed by police Monday, according to the Flagstaff Police Department.

Two officers shot 26-year-old Verl Bedonie during a confrontation near a busy intersection within a few blocks of the school and downtown Flagstaff, said police Sgt. Margaret Bentzen in a press release.

The incident unfolded when officers responded to reports of an armed man in the High Country Conference Center. According to Bentzen, Bedonie was found armed inside the building and was ordered by officers to drop his weapon. He refused and proceeded to run out of the conference center onto Butler Avenue.

Bentzen said Bedonie fired a series of shots as he crossed a popular intersection and walked through a residential neighborhood, but it wasn't clear if he was shooting at anyone or anything.

Bedonie then got into a car and demanded the driver take him to Phoenix. Flagstaff officers were able to stop the vehicle by pinning it with a police cruiser, prompting Bedonie to exit the car.

Police say he ignored multiple commands to drop the weapon and, at one point, raised the gun toward officers. He was immediately shot, Bentzen said. The officers who shot Bedonie were identified as Sgt. Collin Seay with the Flagstaff Police Department, and Officer Dillon Jenkins with the Northern Arizona University Police Department.

Bentzen said Bedonie's gunfire did not strike anyone, but a police officer inadvertently shot into a residence and injured a dog while chasing the armed man. The dog has been taken to the vet and is expected to recover after surgery, she said.

The conference-center parking lot and a residential area across the intersection were cordoned off Monday as police gathered evidence and talked to witnesses. A handful of yellow evidence markers were set in a small field below a Natural Grocers store that features a large painting of a cow on the front.

Witnesses said they saw police officers crouching behind their cars with weapons drawn, shouting at the man to stop.

Tammy Linares, 33, was taking her two children to school when traffic was slowed on Milton Road as police pursued the man. She said the man walked casually in front of her car with a blank expression on his face, an aluminum can in his left hand and something in his right hand. He then went up a small hill and disappeared behind the grocery store.

"I stared at him, and he kind of looked over at me, and I thought, 'Oh my gosh, he's got a gun,' " she said.