Brett Milam, Patrick Brennan, and Bob Strickley

Cincinnati

UPDATE: A 20-year-old man vaulted over a bank counter, pointing a gun before an off-duty officer pushed a teller out of the way and shot the man, killing him, Hamilton County Prosecutor Joseph Deters said Friday.

"It was as clean a police-involved shooting as I've ever seen," Deters said at a news conference during which he also showed clips from surveillance video recorded Wednesday at the Fifth Third bank in Madisonville.

The case will not be presented to a grand jury. Deters said Cincinnati Police Officer Kevin Hankerson, who was working an off-duty detail for the bank, was "absolutely justified" when he shot Terry Frost III.

There were six people, including Hankerson, in the bank when Frost entered, wearing a hoodie and a mask.

Within two seconds, Frost leaped over the service counter and made a motion with his hand, indicating he had a weapon, which he had concealed with a grocery bag over his arm.

A female bank teller had roughly $90,000 behind the counter she was counting for the ATM.

Deters said the situation happened so fast, "it would be hard to believe [Frost] didn't know that money was there."

"He was in a full sprint and vaulted himself over the counter," Deters said. "He was going after something. This was not normal."

Once Frost leaped the counter, Hankerson, 55, pushed the bank teller out of the way and confronted Frost with his gun drawn.

The gun Frost used in the robbery attempt was a .38 caliber Derringer, Deters said. The gun was loaded with the wrong ammunition.

"There was a strike mark on the firing pin," Deters said. "He is literally almost jerking his arm forward as he points at the teller and officer."

Deters speculated that was the point Frost attempted to fire the weapon, but it misfired.

Hankerson then fired twice, hitting Frost once, as he leaped back over the service counter.

Frost then ran out of the bank on Madison Road and to a wooded area near Ebersole Avenue, where he died from the gunshot wound.

Hamilton County Coroner Lakshmi Kode Sammarco confirmed there was a fatal gunshot wound to Frost's chest.

The bullet didn't go through an aorta or a high-pressure system, Sammarco said, which is why he was able to run as far as he did.

"The 20-year-old man committed a senseless and violent act," Deters said. "But he's still somebody's kid. And I think the chief would agree with me that it's still a very sad time for his family."

Terry Frost’s father, Terry Frost II, said Thursday his son made a mistake but didn’t deserve to die.

“He will be missed,” said Terry Frost II. “I’m going to do everything I can for him.”

Hankerson, who has worked for CPD for more that 18 years, committed a great act of bravery and should be commended for what he did, Deters added.

Police Chief Isaac said he met with the Frost family Friday to offer his condolences.

"Obviously, they're very distraught at the loss of their loved one and it's very understandable," Isaac said. "And very saddened by what occurred. I don't want to speak for them — very visibly shaken by it."

Hankerson is on administrative leave for a week, as per police procedure in such a shooting.

"Like any time these type of incidents occur, it weights on everyone," Isaac said, saying he had spoken to Hankerson. "It's not something an officer sets out to do or desires to do, but they know at different times in their career they may be forced to protect themselves or the lives of others."

Enquirer wins Ohio First Amendment award

Isaac said Frost's motive for the attempted robbery is yet to be determined.

Earlier report: The bank robbery suspect shot dead by an off-duty Cincinnati police officer obscured his face and a firearm, entered the Madisonville Fifth Third location, leapt over a counter and may have attempted to shoot the officer who eventually killed him, Police Chief Eliot Isaac said.

The officer, identified as Kevin Hankerson, fired two shots at 20-year-old Terry Frost III.

And despite the fatal shooting happening during a private detail, he has been placed on administrative leave by CPD.

“Our officers were there to protect life,” Isaac said. “To see a 20-year-old lose their life is extremely tragic.”

Isaac said the gun police recovered from the scene had a “primer strike,” meaning, the trigger was pulled, but the bullet did not discharge.

“This indicates what we believe at this point (to be) a trigger pull,” Isaac said, adding that the gun appeared to suffer from some sort of malfunction.

Isaac said Frost then fled from the bank after being struck by Hankerson’s gunfire. Frost was tracked by CPD K-9 Units from the bank’s location on Madison Road to a wooded area near Ebersole Avenue where it was determined he had died.

“As this investigation continues to unfold and additional information comes out it will be very revealing as to the actions of the officers,” Isaac said. “Our officers are there to protect and I think that’s precisely what this officer did.”

Terry Frost’s father, Terry Frost II, said his son made a mistake but didn’t deserve to die.

“He will be missed,” Terry Frost II said Thursday outside District 1 headquarters. “I’m going to do everything I can for him.”

Isaac anticipated that surveillance video of the shooting, which is currently in the possession of the Hamilton County Prosecutor’s Office, would be released Friday.

Involved officer’s background

Hankerson, 55, a Hughes High School graduate, joined the U.S. Army in 1980 where he specialized in small arms repair. His CPD personnel file indicates that he was stationed in Mainz, West Germany for two years.

Hankerson worked with the Hamilton County Juvenile Court from 1987 until he was commissioned as a peace officer with the CPD in Dec. 19, 1997.

Hankerson was initially assigned to District 4, which oversees Mount Auburn, Corryville, Walnut Hills, Avondale, North Avondale, Paddock Hills, Bond Hill, Roselawn, Carthage, and Hartwell neighborhoods.

He was transferred to District 1 in 2006, overseeing Mt. Adams, Over-the-Rhine, Pendleton, Queensgate and the West End neighborhoods.

A year later, Hankerson was transferred to the Special Services Section before joining District 2 in 2011. District 2, the largest in Cincinnati, oversees the neighborhoods from Evanston and East Walnut Hills to Oakley and Mt. Washington.

According to Hankerson’s personnel file, he met or exceeded all performance anchors in two latest reports between July, 20, 2013 and July 20, 2015.

Hankerson’s overall rating was “meets standards.”

In 2003, Hankerson received a citizen commendation for helping the citizen find her stolen vehicle. In 2009, Hankerson received another commendation from Cincinnati Police Lieutenant Colonel Vincent Demasi for, “combining your expertise and investigation techniques in an attempt to identify a person who placed a department member’s life in danger.”

Deceased a former prep star

Frost III is survived by a 2-year-old son, according to his father Terry Frost II who was at CPD District 1 headquarters during the press conference.

“My son made a bad choice and they didn’t have to kill him,” Frost’s father said Thursday while holding a family portrait. “My son was everything to me.”

The deceased Frost was a standout athlete at Withrow High School.

He played for Withrow’s 2013 Cincinnati Metro Athletic Conference football champions for coach Jim Place. Frost returned six kickoffs for 185 yards, including one for 77 yards and a touchdown. The defensive back had 20 tackles and an interception.

In track, Frost III was part of Withrow’s CMAC champion 4x400 relay his senior year.

Frost III does not have any previous robbery charges in Hamilton County, per court records. Chief Isaac said Thursday that Frost had “no significant criminal record from what I have been told.”

Court records indicate he was twice charged with resisting arrest in the same year. He “pulled away” from an officer during a July 2014 arrest for criminal trespassing and in December of 2014 he ran from officers after a traffic stop.