Scene of shooting on May 27, 2016

This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

UPDATE (May 29, 2016) — State Police have identified the suspect as 59-year-old Terry Edwards of Indianapolis. The State Trooper involved in the shooting has been identified as Senior Trooper Josh Watson, a 12 year veteran.

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. — Officers with the Indiana State Police shoot and kill an armed suspect while serving a search warrant.

It happened around 11:45 a.m. in the 100 block of West Gimber Street. That’s in the area of Southern Avenue and South Meridian Street.

Investigators say the case all started in Brown county following a recent shooting.

Detectives apparently tracked the firearm used in that case to a home on Gimber.

While serving a search warrant, Indiana State Police broke down the front door of a home and were met by an armed suspect.

“Upon opening the door, breaching the door, officers were met by a male with a long gun,” said ISP Sgt. Rich Myers.

Neighbors who live nearby say they heard what sounded like a pair of gunshots, quickly followed by an eruption of gunfire.

“I heard multiple shots, pow pow pow pow pow. I didn’t know what was going on,” said Daniel White.

State Police say the suspect refused to listen to orders to put down the gun and gave officers no choice but to open fire.

“Officers repeatedly told him to drop the gun and put the gun down. He refused to do so and raised gun at the officers and was shot and killed,” said Myers.

It’s not clear if the suspect fired any shots.

Investigators say no one else was in the home with the suspect at the time of the shooting.

No officers were hurt, but the suspect died on the scene.

“To find out that somebody passed, it really heartbreaking,” said neighbor Darleen Molchin.

Neighbors like Darleen don’t fault police for pulling the trigger, but they do wish the shooting hadn’t claimed their neighbors life.

“You know from my shoes, you couldn’t you go for a knee or shoulder? Do you really have to kill him?” said Molchin. “I don’t know. I wasn’t there so I really can’t say how to handle it.”

State Police say they were assisting Brown County sheriff’s on serving a warrant.

It’s not clear if the weapon held by the suspect is the same one officers were looking to find.

“I don’t like that it was on my street, just two houses down. It really scares me. It’s amazing some people can snap,” said Molchin.

So far police have not released the name of the suspect killed in the shooting.

The officers involved have been put on routine leave while the case is investigated.