WASHINGTON PARK • The man who police believe shot and killed a 21-year-old woman in a downtown St. Louis carjacking was shot and killed by officers in the Metro East on Thursday afternoon, police said.

St. Clair County Coroner Rick Stone identified the man shot as Devonte Gates, 21, of the 400 block of Adams Street in Brooklyn. Gates was declared dead at 5:03 p.m. by a deputy coroner, Stone said.

Police had been searching for Gates, believed to be the gunman who killed Brandi Hill on Sunday night. After shooting Hill, the gunman and an accomplice then sped off in her red 2015 Dodge Challenger, later tossing her baby out of the car. The child was unharmed.

Gates was also wanted in connection with another fatal shooting, at 20th Street and Ridge Avenue in East St. Louis last month, authorities said. Morris P. Mason, 21, of East St. Louis, was found dead at that intersection on April 24.

In the incident Thursday, Illinois State Police Master Sgt. Mark W. Doiron said the suspect was fatally shot by U.S. marshals and a Caseyville police officer in woods in Washington Park. He did not release details of the shooting or the man’s name.

Doiron said U.S. marshals and officers from other agencies were watching an area on Audubon Avenue in Washington Park on Thursday and encountered the suspect on Eastgate Avenue, a block south, about 4 p.m.

After a foot pursuit, two marshals and the Caseyville officer opened fire, killing the suspect, Dorion said. He did not say why the officers shot the suspect, saying the shooting was under investigation by the Illinois State Police and that the inquiry was still in the early stages. No officers were injured.

Doiron said he didn’t immediately have information on how many times the man was shot.

Stone said Gates had multiple gunshot wounds. An autopsy is to be done Friday.

David Lewis Allen, 61, of Washington Park, said he saw the suspect running from officers before the shooting and said the man was carrying a large handgun. Allen, who was riding through the area on a bike, said he heard gunshots a short time later but didn’t see the shooting.

Fatal carjacking

In the Washington Avenue carjacking, police say the suspect and another man, Ross Randolph, 19, approached Hill’s car while she was stopped at a traffic light near 11th Street on Sunday night.

According to a probable cause statement filed with the charges against Randolph, the other attacker said, “Bitch, give me the car and the keys,” before shooting Hill in the head.

Police say Randolph then pulled Hill’s adult passenger, who was nine months pregnant and identified in court documents as Q.H., out of the car.

The gunman pushed Hill out of the car and left her lying on Washington Avenue near 11th Street. Later they threw her baby, who had been in the back seat of the car in an infant car seat, out of the car on Glasgow Avenue. The car was later dumped elsewhere.

Hill, of O’Fallon, Mo., died at a hospital. A vigil was held Wednesday at a makeshift memorial for her on Washington Avenue, near the place she was shot.

The dead suspect appears to be the same man who has been convicted in St. Clair County for a list of misdemeanors and petty offenses, according to public records. In the court records, his first name is spelled Devante. The offenses include charges for possessing 2.5 to 10 grams of cannabis, not having a ticket for the Metro, and a traffic violation for not having a bicycle lamp at night. He also had been charged with resisting an officer.

Kristen Taketa of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.