Dennis Hudson. (Source: Facebook)

LINCOLN, AL (WBRC) - After a delay of more than two weeks, authorities have finally released the name of a man shot to death by a Lincoln police officer.

Talladega District Attorney Steve Giddens confirmed to WBRC that the deceased was Dennis Hudson, 50, of Lincoln.

The original incident happened some around 10:15 a.m. Saturday morning, May 28, at the Discount Food Mart on Highway 78 in Eastaboga. It was in the Lincoln police jurisdiction near the Calhoun County line, after police reportedly responded to a domestic violence call involving a man with a gun. No officers were hurt in the incident.

Giddens did not tell WBRC why there was a delay in releasing Hudson's name. When a similar officer-involved shooting happened in Irondale June 9, the name of the person killed in that case was released to the media the next day.

According to his Facebook profile, Hudson turned 50 on March 9. His last public comment on the public portion of that page appears to be a thank you to his friends for their birthday wishes.

"...it has really been a blessing to see another year God is really great again thank you all for your love," he said in that status.

The day of the shooting, a witness, Sherry Jackson, told WBRC what she said happened.

"Yes, they said, 'Put down your gun! Put down your gun!' And that's when he pointed and the officer took a shot," Robinson told us at the time. "It was very lucky that no one else got hurt, you know? He could have killed several people in the police chase."

Robinson and a friend who walked with her, Gail Harbin, were later arrested on unrelated charges after a theft victim identified them through WBRC's news coverage.

The State Bureau of Investigation continues to investigate the case and multiple agencies have declined to release further details. The results of the investigation are expected to be turned over to the D.A.'s office and possibly presented to a grand jury.

Copyright 2016 WBRC. All rights reserved.