Duke Behnke, and Alison Dirr

Post Crescent

APPLETON - A 23-year-old Appleton man who was a suspect in two retail thefts attacked an Appleton police officer early Saturday, taking her handgun and shooting her and a Good Samaritan before killing himself on the city's east side, Police Chief Todd Thomas said.

The suspect shot himself in the head, according to multiple people who witnessed the event, and died at the scene, Thomas said.

Police declined to release the names of the suspect, the officer or the man who stopped to help her, to give their families time to cope with the incident. Thomas said the officer was shot in the hip and the man was shot in the upper chest. They underwent surgery at a local hospital and are recovering.

"Their injuries are not life-threatening," Thomas said.

The officer spotted the suspect walking in the 900 block of South Kensington Drive near Kensington Court about 12:15 a.m. Thomas said the suspect refused to stop and at some point turned around and approached the officer. She got out of her squad car and gave the suspect orders, Thomas said, but the suspect didn't comply and came at her.

The officer retreated and tried to stop the suspect with her Taser.

"The male suspect continued his assault and attacked the officer and attempted to disarm her," Thomas said. "The officer and the male fought violently for control of her firearm."

Two men in a passing car saw the fight and stopped behind the police car and got out to help.

"At this point the suspect was able to disarm the officer and fired at her," striking her once, Thomas said. The suspect then fired additional shots toward the men who had stopped to assist, hitting one of them.

A witness, 52-year-old Mike Lodahl, told USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin that he looked out his window after hearing a commotion and saw the suspect fire three or four shots toward a white car and then shoot himself in a driveway.

The Green Bay Police Department is investigating the shooting at the request of Appleton police.

"This death was not caused by the direct action, or omission to act, of a police officer," Thomas said. "Even though it was not required to be investigated by an outside agency, I felt that our commitment to being transparent would best be fulfilled by having an outside agency investigate the incident for us."

Police didn't disclose how many shots were fired but did say only the officer's handgun was involved. Police declined to say whether the incident was captured by any body camera or dashboard camera.

Thomas thanked the two men who stopped to help the officer. "They are another shining example of what is great about Appleton," he said.

The chief also praised the officer. "We are very proud of how you fought and survived this brutal attack," he said. "Thank you for being a shining example of what is great about law enforcement, a willingness to put it all on the line in the service of others."

The incident began about 10:35 p.m. Friday with the theft of cigarettes from a Mobil gas station at 2811 E. Newberry St. A store employee provided police with a detailed description of the suspect, who ran away.

About 12:05 a.m. Saturday a similarly described suspect stole cigarettes in the same manner from a MotoMart gas station at 320 S. Kensington Drive and again ran away.

Capt. Todd Freeman described the retail thefts as "grab and dash."

Residents said the neighborhood is a safe area.

Jeff Scott, 55, said he has lived in the neighborhood for 30 years and feels safe. Saturday morning's events did not change that, he said.

Josh Freymiller, 32, lives with his wife and two children on Kensington Drive.

He was in his basement and heard some bangs between 12:15 and 12:20 a.m. He said detectives arrived at his house and mentioned a "crime scene." They didn't give a lot of details, he said, but told him there was no one at large and no reason to be worried.

Freymiller's family has lived on Kensington since 2009. He said nothing like this has happened before.

"We have two kids and never felt unsafe in this neighborhood," he said.

Duke Behnke: 920-993-7176, or dbehnke@postcrescent.com; on Twitter @DukeBehnke. Alison Dirr: 920-996-7266 or adirr@postcrescent.com