A Rural Hall man being chased by the N.C. Highway Patrol died early Sunday when he lost control of his motorcycle and collided with a vehicle driven by a Winston-Salem police officer.

Troopers with the highway patrol attempted to stop Alex Felipe Gibbs, 27, about 1 a.m. on Business 40 near Stratford Road for speeding. Gibbs failed to stop and fled, according to the highway patrol.

Traveling east on Peace Haven Road, Gibbs lost control of his motorcycle and crossed the center line into the path of an unmarked vehicle driven by police Cpl. William Cumbo, a 14-year veteran.

Gibbs was taken to Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center and died of his injuries.

Cumbo was treated and released for minor injuries at Forsyth Medical Center.

The highway patrol is investigating the wreck. Troopers believe alcohol was a factor, authorities said.

A Winston-Salem police officer was involved in another fatal accident in May 2015.

A patrol car driven by Sgt. John Leone traveled through a red light at the intersection of Reynolda and Polo roads and hit a pickup truck driven by Alan Edward Dunnagan.

Leone pleaded guilty in November to misdemeanor death by motor vehicle in Dunnagan’s death. He was granted a prayer for judgment continued last month after completing 210 hours of community service and paying court costs.

City Manager Lee Garrity said last month that Leone was now working in the police department’s planning unit, “assisting with accreditation and other administrative duties. In that capacity, he does not use a patrol vehicle,” Garrity said.

In September 2015, Winston-Salem city officials ordered driver safety classes for all police officers after a police cruiser struck and injured a motorcyclist.

Officer Jeremiah Lewis Ansel had parked his patrol car in a driveway off Robinhood Road for traffic-law enforcement, police said. When Ansel saw another driver apparently committing a violation, he pulled onto Robinhood Road and started to make a U-turn to travel east toward Silas Creek Parkway to stop that driver. He struck a motorcycle traveling west on Robinhood Road. That driver, Zachery Lee Stephens of Thomasville, suffered serious injuries in the crash.