Washington County officers were justified in fatally shooting a man who "was intent on killing" his wife and engaged officers in a standoff, at one point directing his gun at them, the district attorney announced Wednesday.

Robert Wickizer, 70, pointed a gun at his wife on Memorial Day and pulled the trigger, Washington County Senior Deputy District Attorney Bracken McKey wrote. The gun didn't fire, and Wickizer's wife ran away, McKey wrote.

Wickizer and his wife were married at the time but had been separated since 2006, McKey wrote. She lived with her mother on Southwest Cheyenne Way in Tualatin, where the incident started.

Wickizer's wife ran to a neighbor's house, where her mother eventually joined her. Wickizer attempted to enter the home by breaking a window panel and trying to unlock a deadbolt, but a neighbor fired a single shot into the first floor landing from inside the home. Wickizer then left the porch and eventually engaged officers for a half-hour.

"At times they ordered, bargained, pleaded, and begged with Mr. Wickizer to put down his gun and talk to them," McKey wrote. "Periodically, Mr. Wickizer placed his gun on a mailbox, but remained within arms' reach of the weapon and refused to speak with (officers,) other than to say, "Today is a good day to die," and "Screw you guys."

Wickizer at one point went into the neighbor's open garage and tried to get into the home though a locked door. He later walked to the side of the house and fired a shot.

That prompted several officers to move toward Wickizer, who suddenly "reemerged and walked towards the advancing" officers -- who gave repeated "'Stop! Drop the gun" commands, McKey wrote. Wickizer shifted the gun from his left hand to his right hand and pointed it at the officers.

Four officers simultaneously fired at Wickizer, hitting him 13 times. The state medical examiner concluded he died of gunshot wounds to the abdomen, chest and neck.

"Based upon my review of this investigation, I concluded that all four listed officers acted under the reasonable belief that Mr. Wickizer was 'using or about to use deadly physical force,'" McKey wrote.

The officers who fired at Wickizer are Aaron Oberst and Charles Wujcik of the Beaverton Police Department; Eric French of the Tualatin Police Department; and Sgt. Chris Schweigert of the Washington County Sheriff's Office. Oberst, Wujcik and Schweigert are members of the county's Tactical Negotiations Team.

Denny Tynan is the neighbor who fired the shot into his landing, McKey wrote. A Tualatin police spokesman described the gunshot as a "warning shot" intended to try to scare Wickizer away.

McKey wrote that Wickizer's wife authored a note to the officers, saying, in part: "How do you thank someone for saving your life? Words really can't express our gratefulness... There is not a doubt in my mind that if your officers had not been there, Bob would have entered the home and killed me and whoever else got in the way."

-- Jim Ryan

jryan@oregonian.com

503-221-8005; @Jimryan015