UPDATE 6/7: CRIT P.D. has added another detail for the record. According to CRIT Police Chief William Ponce, the knife-wielding subject in this story was advancing on the officer, moving toward him while ignoring repeated instructions to drop the knife. “The individual kept advancing on the officer, and the officer retreated until this individual continued to advance on the officer with the knife while ignoring instructions, and obviously at that point the officer sought to stop the threat,” Ponce said. The below article has been amended to add that detail.



An incident led to a fatality at 100 Homes Friday night, with an officer from the Colorado River Indian Tribes Police Department discharging his firearm at a man who was reportedly wielding a knife.

On June 3, 2016, at approximately 8:17pm, Colorado River Indian Tribes Dispatch received a call from a reporting party requesting an officer respond to 100 Homes because there was a man with a knife pointing it at people. The closest officer responded and arrived at the scene at approximately 8:20pm.

The officer made contact with the male subject who was still wielding the knife. The officer gave multiple commands to drop the knife, which CRIT P.D. says were not followed. After the subject began advancing toward the officer with the knife in his hand, the officer retreated until a point when he was ultimately concerned for his life and discharged his firearm.

Other CRIT units in the area were immediately dispatched, and first aid was administrated by CRIT PD until medical arrived. The male subject was later pronounced deceased at approximately 9pm.

Per CRIT procedure, the Federal Bureau of Investigations was notified, and is investigating this officer-involved shooting.

La Paz County Sheriff’s Department and Arizona Department of Public Safety assisted with securing the scene.

This is an ongoing investigation at this time and CRIT Law Enforcement Department says it is limited on what information can be released. CRITDVAT can be contacted at 928-669-2906 for anyone needing assistance with grief counseling.