UPDATE 8:50 a.m.

Joshua Smith, 33, of Wasilla died at 3:52 a.m. Friday morning at Providence hospital where he was receiving treatment for multiple gunshot wounds, troopers said.

Smith was shot by troopers after he charged them with a knife during a disturbance off of Hyer Road in Wasilla.

His family was present at the hospital and aware of his death, according to a trooper dispatch.

The State Medical Examiner’s Office will conduct an autopsy.

The investigation is ongoing. The two troopers who fired shots will be placed on administrative leave for 72 hours, per department policy.

UPDATE 4:30 a.m.:

A man was shot by two Alaska State Troopers in Wasilla Thursday evening after he charged at them with a knife, troopers wrote in a dispatch Friday.

Just before 7:30 p.m., troopers in Palmer were notified of a disturbance off of Hyer Road in Wasilla. When officials arrived on scene, they encountered a 32-year-old man, "wielding a knife on the corner of Megan Way and East Jean Drive," troopers wrote.

"While troopers were talking with him, the male charged at troopers with a knife in his hand," troopers wrote. "Two troopers fired their service weapons while one trooper attempted to utilize a Taser."

The man was shot multiple times and was critically wounded. He was airlifted to Providence Alaska Medical Center in Anchorage for treatment. No troopers were hurt.

The two troopers who fired shots will be placed on administrative leave for 72 hours, per department policy.

The Alaska Bureau of Investigation is looking into the matter.

ORIGINAL STORY:

A person has been airlifted to hospital following a trooper-involved shooting on Jean Drive in the Meadow Brooks neighborhood near Wasilla.

Mat-Su EMS director Lisa Behrens said the incident involved an altercation between law enforcement and an individual. LifeMed was requested and a gunshot victim was transported to Providence Hospital in Anchorage.

Behrens could not immediately comment on the condition of the victim.

Alaska State Troopers spokeswoman Megan Peters confirmed that one person was shot and no troopers were injured.

A trooper on scene told Channel 2 that the suspect was armed with knives and tried to go after three troopers. The three troopers then fired at the suspect.

Check back for updates to this developing story.