Eufaula shooting.png

Eufaula police say Demarco Rhymes, 35, of Eufaula, shot three people early Saturday morning before he was shot and killed by officers in a shootout. (Rickey Stokes News)

A man accused of shooting and injuring three in Eufaula on Saturday morning was fatally shot by police officers, Eufaula police say.

Officers used deadly force against Demarco Rhymes, 35, of Eufaula "to stop the imminent deadly threat posed" by the suspect, the Eufaula Police Department stated in a press release.

The incident began at around 7:54 a.m. when Eufaula police received a report that a 2-year-old was shot at the Level Acres Mobile Home Park. The toddler, who had been shot in the leg, was flown to Children's of Alabama in Birmingham for treatment.

Rhymes was identified as the suspect in that shooting.

After shooting the toddler, police say Rhymes left the mobile home park and traveled to Davis Street where he shot a 42-year-old woman. Rhymes then allegedly went to Norman Street where he shot a 39-year-old man multiple times.

The man and woman shot are currently listed in critical condition at a Dothan hospital.

Eufaula police say officers made contact with Rhymes near Zion Church where he began firing shots at the officers.

Rhymes continued to fire shots at officers during a subsequent vehicle and foot pursuit, according to the police department.

That's when officers shot and killed Rhymes. Rhymes was pronounced dead at Medical Center Barbour.

No officers were injured in the incident.

Eufaula police believe the Saturday morning shootings stemmed from a domestic dispute.

"Our prayers are with the victims, officers and all those affected by this incident," Eufaula Police Chief Steve Watkins said. "Our highly trained officers are prepared to address such incidents, and I commend the officers who responded and deployed their training both effectively and efficiently this morning,"

The officers involved in the deadly shooting were placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation. The State Bureau of Investigation is handling the investigation per the request of Eufaula police.