Date: June 25, 2002

Reported by: Janelle MacDonald

The shooting happened at the Madrid Apartment Complex on Second Avenue. Police say an officer responded to a call about a disturbance. When she arrived, they say there was some sort of altercation with 28-year-old William Lehman and the officer shot him. Lehman died later at Lake Charles Memorial Hospital.

"Our reaction is one of sadness, sadness for the victim and the victim's family and one of concern for our officer," says Lake Charles Police Chief Don Dixon. Dixon says an internal and criminal investigation has already begun into the shooting.

"It's easy to sit there in the comfort of a living room, and sit there and be a Monday morning quarterback," he says. "Anybody in the world could do that. To be out in the arena and to have things happen in a split second, where you have to make life and death judgments based upon what you see and what you hear, it's a tough job." Dixon says that's why training is critical.

Some of that instruction takes place at the Law Enforcement Training Academy. There, officers are trained to shoot for the center of whatever part of the body is showing. "I don't believe any police officer shoots to kill anybody," says Lt. Curtis Soileau. "The subject makes that decision. The officer is shooting to protect himself or someone else. It's very hard to hit a moving target, especially if you are trying to wound someone."

"If there is an imminent threat to you, or to another officer or to a civilian, you have to shoot to kill, period," Dixon says.

Chief Dixon says it's possible there were several calls made about the disturbance at the Madrid Apartment Complex Monday night. Initial reports said the complaint calls also included reports of shots fired prior to the officer arriving. Dixon says the 911 calls are being reviewed at this time as part of the investigation into the shooting.

He says he's not yet released the name of the officer involved in the shooting. That could happen as early as Thursday.