Irondale Press Conference.jpg

Irondale Police Chief Ken Atkinson details the moments leading up to the fatal officer-involved shooting of 34-year-old William Michael Hollis.

( )

A man fatally shot by Irondale police dragged one officer through a parking lot and later, after a two-city chase, pointed a handgun at two officers, authorities said today.

Irondale Police Chief Ken Atkinson today chronicled the moments leading up to the June 9 death of 34-year-old William Michael Hollis of McCalla. Hollis had a lengthy criminal history involving property crimes, was arrested last month in a string of car break-ins in Cullman County and was a suspect in similar crimes in Irondale.

This is what Atkinson said happened in Thursday's shooting:

About 5:30 p.m. on Thursday, officers responded to a call at 1729 Highway 78 on a call of a suspicious white male in a yellow car walking around looking in cars in the parking lot and pulling on door handles. Police had already received two calls that day on similar reports and the suspect and vehicle description were the same in all of the reported incidents.

Officers arrived on the scene at the Highway 78 business where they saw and stopped the white male in the parking lot who matched the description given out by dispatchers. The officers approached the car and confronted the suspect - later identified as Hollis - at which time Hollis jumped into his vehicle and attempted to flee the scene at a high rate of speed. "As the suspect was fleeing the scene, one of our officers attempted to reach inside the suspect's vehicle and prevent him from leaving,'' Atkinson said. "That officer was dragged a short distance across the parking lot."

Officers then pursued the vehicle out of the parking lot, through parts of Irondale and eventually into Birmingham. "Our officer made several attempts to stop the vehicle during this pursuit,'' Atkinson said, but the suspect didn't stop. The chase ended when the suspect's yellow Mazda Protege struck a vehicle occupied by a male and a female in the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 30th street South. At that time, the suspect's vehicle became disabled.

After the crash, Hollis climbed through a window of his car to exit and then began running from the scene on foot. "During the foot pursuit, the suspect pulled out a weapon, a handgun, and directed it at our officers,'' Atkinson said. "Therefore, as a result of his actions, our officers had to resort to the use of deadly force."

"Contrary to inaccurate reporting by local news stations, the suspect was handcuffed only after the officers used deadly force and that was due to the fact that he was not fully incapacitated and there was still a weapon involved,'' Atkinson said. "He was not handcuffed prior to the use of force."

Paramedics were immediately called to treat Hollis, and he was pronounced dead on the scene. As with most officer-involved shootings, the investigation was turned over to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency. Once the investigation is complete, the evidence will be turned over to the Jefferson County District Attorney's Office.

Atkinson said the same two officers were involved in the incident from the time they made their initial contact with Hollis until the shooting. They were both taken to the hospital after the shooting to be treated for minor injuries and then placed on administrative leave with pay. They returned to work today, but remain on administrative duty until the investigation is done and they are cleared, Atkinson said.

The couple struck in the pursuit also had minor injuries. "They did receive minor abrasions and bruising but thankfully they were not seriously injured because it was a pretty good impact right there at that intersection,'' the chief said.

A woman who was with Hollis was released, but could face charges of receiving stolen property. Authorities have not yet released her identity, and couldn't confirm whether it was the same woman arrested with him in May in the Cullman County crimes.

Irondale police do not wear body camera, so there is no police-provided footage of the shooting. Because of the ongoing ALEA investigation, Atkinson couldn't say whether surveillance video from nearby businesses captured the shooting.

Thursday's incident was one of only four Irondale police officer-involved shootings in at least 25 years. Of those, two were fatal including the death of Hollis.

At the time of his death, Hollis was facing three counts of unlawful breaking and entering a vehicle. In that case, Cullman County sheriff's officials said investigators were dispatched to the McDonald's in Dodge City on a report of suspects in a yellow Mazda Protege breaking into cars. Hollis and his girlfriend, Kelly Schmidt, were taken into custody. Officers found purses, IDs, credit cards and other stolen items in their vehicle.