A suburban man wanted on a drug charge died Monday after he shut himself in a garage then set fire to the structure, apparently to avoid arrest.

Officials say J. Bruce Cameron, 46, died of smoke inhalation while flames kept Kane County Sheriff's deputies from entering the garage.

Advertisement

Cameron's last known address was on the 31W600 block of Schoger Road in Naperville.

"He made statements that he didn't want to spend the rest of his life in jail," said Chief Deputy Dan Schindlbeck of the Kane County sheriff's office. "He said he would kill himself. I have no idea why he'd go to the extremes of lighting the garage on fire with him inside."

Advertisement

A deputy responding to a burglar alarm Monday afternoon in the 5S900 block of Shaw Road in Big Rock Township encountered Cameron. A sheriff's office spokesman said Cameron knew the owners of the home and was waiting for them to return when he inadvertently set off the alarm.

A woman who answered the phone at the house Tuesday declined comment, saying she had not yet spoken with investigators.

Sheriff's officials said the deputy who responded to the burglar alarm checked Cameron's records, which showed a warrant for his arrest. When the deputy tried to take him into custody, Cameron grabbed a pitchfork from the home's garage and began threatening the officer, Sheriff Ken Ramsey said.

As other deputies arrived, they asked Cameron to drop the pitchfork but he would not, Ramsey said. After several minutes, deputies fired beanbags at Cameron, who threw his pitchfork at the officers, Ramsey said.

Cameron then got a knife from the garage and threatened the deputies, Ramsey said. The officers retreated and the man shut the garage door, the sheriff said.

While deputies tried to coax Cameron outside, he grabbed a container of gasoline, doused the garage and lit it on fire, a sheriff's spokesman said.

After deputies extinguished the fire, they found Cameron dead inside a car in the garage.

Kane County Coroner Charles West said an autopsy Tuesday morning showed Cameron died of smoke inhalation. West said Cameron also had extensive burns. Toxicology results will not be available for several weeks.

Advertisement

"Everything appears to be self-induced," West said. "From all reports, it was from his own hand."

Sheriff's deputies said they found narcotics and drug paraphernalia on Cameron's body.

Schindlbeck said his office will conduct a routine critique of how deputies handled the incident, but he did not think there would be a formal review by his office or the Kane County state's attorney's office.

"I don't think we had anything to do with his death," Schindlbeck said. "I think [the deputies] did everything they possibly could to bring it to a successful conclusion without any fatalities. It was the choice of the individual to end it that way."