FORREST COUNTY, MS (WDAM) - A suspect involved in a high-speed chase in Forrest County involving a stolen police cruiser died Saturday.

The suspect has been identified as Joshua Breazeale, according to Forrest County Deputy Coroner Jonathan Nobles.

Nobles said Breazeale died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The body will be sent to the state crime lab for autopsy.

The scene:

Just before 10 p.m., a Forrest County deputy was flagged down at a residence in the 300 block of J.B. Horne Road.

MOBILE USERS: Click here for photos from the scene



"He advised there was a victim that was hit in the head with a hammer at the residence," Forrest County Sheriff's Department Investigator Nick Calico. said. "The deputy left his unit to render medical aid and radioed for assistance to head that way."

The victim of the hammer injury has been listed in stable condition.



According to Calico, when the deputy was calling for medical assistance, Breazeale jumped in the deputy's car and fled the scene.



The deputy then notified dispatch that his unit was stolen and his K-9 was inside, according to Calico.



"A short time later the patrol unit was located on Highway 49 headed north, at that point deputies attempted to stop the vehicle," Calico said. "The suspect then turned on Edwards Street, continued to Brady Road, and then the suspect turned on Johnston Circle."



Breazeale wrecked into the woods near 826 Johnston Circle.

"At that point there was at least one gunshot heard from the vehicle," Calico said. "Deputies and Mississippi Highway Patrol Officers then approached the vehicle, and it appeared the suspect had a self-inflected gunshot wound."

Calico said when they heard the shot fire, another shot was returned by an MHP officer.

No officers, or the K-9 were injured in the pursuit or incident.

The stolen cruiser and evidence from the scene were taken to the crime lab for processing, according to Strain.

The incident is being handled by the Forrest County Sheriff's Department and the Mississippi Bureau of Investigations.

Copyright WDAM 2016. All rights reserved.