A suspect armed with a spear was shot and killed in a deputy-involved shooting in Maywood on Saturday, according to sheriff's officials.

MAYWOOD, Calif. (KABC) -- A suspect armed with a spear was shot and killed in a deputy-involved shooting in Maywood on Saturday, according to Los Angeles County sheriff's officials.

Deputies responded to a family disturbance call at about 2:30 p.m. in the 5200 block of Corona Avenue, officials from the East Los Angeles Sheriff's Station said.

Authorities said the family of the suspect, later identified as 31-year-old Jesus Duran, called for help, saying Duran was threatening them.

When deputies arrived, they found Duran armed with a home-made spear. Sheriff's officials said they attempted to use a Taser when Duran lunged at the deputies. One deputy then opened fire.

Duran was struck numerous times in the torso and rushed to a nearby hospital, LASD officials said. He later died from his injuries.

No deputies were hurt in the shooting.

The family said Duran was in the military and had been living with his parents, but the situation had been getting volatile and then parents moved out.

That evening, Duran's parents and sister went to the home to check on his well-being. They discovered the front door was barricaded and the suspect's sister broke a window to get inside. The woman found that her brother was in his bedroom, and when she tried talking to him through the door, he threatened her, detectives said. Duran's sister then called for help.

"When deputy personnel went inside and made contact with the suspect at his bedroom door, they saw the suspect was armed with a home-made spear. The deputies applied less-than-lethal force, which was unsuccessful in disarming the suspect," said LASD Deputy Lisa Jansen.

Detectives later found there were other home-made weapons in the bedroom. Officials said it was unclear whether Duran had physiological issues as a result of combat.

No additional information was available, and the investigation was on-going, sheriff's officials said.