Crime & Safety UPDATED: Tiverton Murder Suspect Shoots at Police, Killed after Chase Tiverton police responded to a shooting in Pocasset Hill Cemetery on Monday night and later shot at the reported suspect on Ford Farm Road. Reply

Updated 11:52 a.m.: Police have identified the murder victim as 81-year-old John Cloud of Kingston, MA.

The suspect, who was shot by police, has been identified as Edward Acquisto, 80, of Tiverton.

From earlier:



Tiverton, RI—An elderly man killed a man in Pocasset Hill Cemetery in Tiverton Monday night before leading police on a chase back to a Ford Farm Road house where he fired at officers, who fired back. The suspect is now dead, and Tiverton police are investigating the murder in the cemetery and the police-involved shooting on Ford Farm Road after a night of sirens and gunfire rattled an otherwise quiet neighborhood.

Tiverton Police Chief Thomas Blakley said that three officers were shot at by the suspect in a driveway. No officers were struck, though two Tiverton officers and a Fall River officer were transported to a nearby hospital according to protocol. Blakley said that all responding agencies deserve credit for handling an intense situation.

"It was a good joint effort by all the agencies involved," the chief said. Police are not releasing much more information about the incident, citing an active investigation. Next of kin are in the process of being notified ahead of identification of both the suspect and murder victim.

The public should not feel unsafe and the incident appears to be isolated, authorities said. From earlier. Tiverton police responded to a shooting near Pocasset Hill Cemetery in Tiverton on Monday and ended up chasing the apparent suspect to a Ford Farm Road where he was shot by police, according to multiple reports. Authorities responded to reports of gunfire at around 7 p.m. after a shooting in the cemetery. Shortly afterwards, there was a second shooting report nearby on Ford Farm Road after a police pursuit. A man at the scene suffered a gunshot wound, according to reports. The victim was described as an elderly male.



Both victims were transported to the hospital. Their conditions were not immediately clear.

Police have not released any information at this time, but the state Attorney General's office confirmed there was an officer-involved shooting.

The state police and officials from the AG's office were at the scene along with Tiverton and Fall River officers. Both scenes were taped off by police. After the first shooting, Fall River police joined Tiverton police in the pursuit of a black Kia that reportedly was connected with the cemetery shooting.