Anna Wolfe

The Clarion-Ledger

TUPELO — Antwun "Ronnie" Shumpert and Charles Foster were driving to the store on the evening of June 18 to get Foster a T-shirt for a party they planned to attend that night. The two friends played together on the same semi-pro football team, the Lee County Tiger-Cats, and they were planning to celebrate the previous weekend's win against the Tennessee Cyclones in Jackson, Tennessee.

"My friend didn't get to make it," Foster said. "I didn't either, but I'm still alive."

During the drive, the two men saw the blue lights flashing behind them.

"He looked at me and said, 'I'm about to run,'" Foster said. "I'm like, 'Why?'"

Foster said Shumpert, who was driving, hadn't done anything wrong. Although the police suggest the vehicle had no tag light, Foster said all his lights were working properly. The tan Ford Focus is his, not Shumpert's, after all.

JUSTICE AND 'JUSTIFICIATION': A Mississippi city tries to heal

When Shumpert came to a stop, he exited the vehicle and ran up a grassy hill into blackness. The officer who pulled them over ran after Shumpert, hand on his firearm, Foster said.

Officer Tyler Cook, who was called for backup, intercepted the chase. His K9 led him to the back of a house on Harrison Street, where Shumpert was hiding inside a crawl space under the house, police say.

This is where two stories diverge. Attorney Carlos Moore, hired by Shumpert's family, questions the details of the officer's account all the way down to the hiding place.

Versions of the story

"Officer Cook noticed a hand trying to hold the door shut" over the entrance to the crawl space, according to the city's timeline. Moore said it would be difficult for the 6-foot tall Shumpert to have crawled into such a space.

"Tupelo PD. Come out from under the house, and show me your hands. I have a dog, and he will bite," Cook says he said to Shumpert.

Shumpert did not "comply," the timeline shows.

Cook gave orders to the K9 to pursue Shumpert. Moore said he has a witness who will testify that the dog attacked Shumpert viciously, biting him in the groin. The city's account, based solely on Cook's statement, says that the K9 grabbed Shumpert by the arm. Shumpert then punched the dog in the head, causing it to release the arm.

Once free, Cook said Shumpert attacked him. Shumpert, described by Foster as his football team's lead tackler, knocked Cook down and began punching him in the face until the officer feared he would lose consciousness, Cook said in the report. This is when Cook said he shot Shumpert in self-defense.

Foster said he heard the gunshots, two at first, then a pause and two more, within a couple of minutes after his friend started running.

"They're gonna kill me next," Foster remembers thinking to himself.

Moore said Cook's injuries are not consistent with his story. "His face would have depicted that," Moore said, emphasizing Shumpert's size and strength. "His eyes should have been closed shut and black and blue."

Conflicting reports

Moore's description of the attack against Shumpert, which he likens to the lynchings of Mississippi's past, is key to the community's outcry. It's also where discrepancies occur, giving credence to the city's claims that Moore is manipulating the people of Tupelo. According to Moore, Shumpert was mauled by the officer's K9 and his face beaten to the point that his teeth came loose.

Photos of Shumpert's body after the autopsy show a large gaping wound in the groin and three large scratches across his back, injuries Moore claim are from a K9 attack. The photos also show Shumpert's bottom teeth dramatically bent back toward his throat, the result of a stomping to the face, Moore says.

Mayor Jason Shelton said the photos were taken well after rigor mortis had set in are not indicative of the condition of Shumpert's body when he died. He also explains that other marks on his body could have occurred during surgery performed after the shooting.

The medical reports from North Mississippi Medical Center say physicians noted no marks on Shumpert's back, but Moore said those notes were made while physicians hectically tried to save Shumpert's life, and they were likely not thorough.

Moore said his forensic pathologist, Washington D.C.'s Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Roger Mitchell, finds that the photos indicate an altercation with another person and a K9, but that he would need the full autopsy report to be certain.

Non-violent criminal history

Since Shumpert's death, the city has made a point to educate the public on his criminal record, which contains no violent charges. One-fifth of the 106-page informational packet distributed by the city to reporters following the incident are police reports and court cases dealing with Shumpert, who had an outstanding warrant on charges of theft. Other charges included larceny and burglary.

Shumpert was more than a decade older than the 26-year-old Foster. When they got together, Foster said they mostly discussed family and church, making it all the more difficult for him to believe his friend was aggressive with the officer.

The city also explained that on the night Shumpert was pulled over, the Tupelo Police Department Street Crimes Unit was conducting a planned surveillance of the Townhouse Motel, where the tan Ford sedan Shumpert was driving was tagged as a suspicious vehicle. The police department had received several reports of criminal activity taking place at the motel.

Immediately following Shumpert's criminal records in the packet appears a study: 2014 Law Enforcement Officers Killed & Assaulted Statistics. Shelton included in his press release detailing the incident leading to Shumpert's death the statistics of officers killed in the line of duty and that one out of 20 are killed using their own gun.

The Tupelo Police Department is sensitive to the prospect of losing an officer. In 2013, the department suffered its own loss when an officer was shot and killed by a bank robber at the same intersection on which protesters gathered last Friday.

That tragedy is discussed by officers anytime Shumpert's death is, and it's the closest city officials come to crying.

"We know what the community is going through," Tupelo Police Chief Bar Aguirre said.

Contact Anna Wolfe at (601) 961-7326 or awolfe@gannett.com. Follow @ayewolfe on Twitter.