Weapon Pic 2.jpg

Pictured is the replica handgun that William Thomas Hennessey was armed with when he was shot and killed by a Huntsville police officer on June 18 on Jordan Lane. (Huntsville Police Department)

A man shot and killed by a Huntsville police officer last month was armed with a fake gun when he died.

William Thomas Hennessey (Contributed photo)

William Thomas Hennessey, 34, pulled the gun, described by Huntsville police as a carbon dioxide-powered replica pistol that could shoot either pellets or BBs, out of his car as he was approached by a state trooper. He was ultimately shot twice by a Huntsville patrol officer when he wouldn't drop the gun, which the law enforcement officers believed to be a more powerful weapon.

"The officer and trooper both struggled with Hennessey and attempted to get him to drop the weapon," the Huntsville Police Department stated in a news release issued Thursday. "The struggle lasted for an additional one minute and one second, and the trooper and officer told Hennessey to drop the weapon at least 27 times during that struggle. Hennessey continued to struggle with officers over the weapon until the Huntsville police officer fired his weapon at Hennessey. He was pronounced dead at the scene."

The string of incidents that led to Hennessey's death began around 9:30 a.m. the morning of June 18 when the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency received word of a possible drunk driver in a blue Volkswagen. A witness followed the car, which had struck mailboxes and a vehicle, on Highway 53 from Madison County into Huntsville city limits.

Once in the city, the trooper asked for assistance from Huntsville police officers. The officers looking for the vehicle found it parked in a lot at 1004 Jordan Lane.

Initially unable to find the driver, the trooper approached the car to finish paperwork for the damage it had caused in the county. At that point, Hennessey came back to his car.

When the trooper approached him, Hennessey pulled the gun out of the car and they began struggling over the weapon. The Huntsville patrol officer, who was on his way to his lunch break, spotted the struggle and pulled in to assist the trooper.

The struggle and shooting were captured on Huntsville Police Department body cameras and dashboard cameras. The footage has not been made public.

An internal Incident Review Board on June 30 cleared the officer who shot Hennessey of wrongdoing. He has been returned to full duty.