BUTTE -- A Butte policeman was justified in fatally shooting a man who had pulled and pointed a pistol Thursday, Sheriff Ed Lester says, but it is a tragedy that will take all officers a while to get over.

“In something like this it takes some time to sink in,” Lester said Thursday, hours after 36-year-old Peter Grandpre was shot multiple times inside a house in Butte while exchanging gunfire with an officer.

“When you start facing your own mortality and realizing that an individual has lost his life, it takes a while for that to sink in,” he said.

Lester said the officer was wearing a body camera and video of the incident shows the shooting early Thursday morning was justified. The officer and man fired multiple shots but only Grandpre was hit – several times – and he was pronounced dead after being taken to St. James Healthcare.

“There is no doubt in my mind the individual was trying to kill the officer,” Lester said at a news conference. He declined to name the officer involved but said he was on administrative leave pending an investigation.

Lester said at this time it’s not known who exactly fired first. The Montana Division of Criminal Investigation is investigating the shooting.

Grandpre’s wife called police at 1:51 a.m. Thursday saying her husband had been drinking and they had been arguing in the house at 604 S. Clark Street when he took out two pistols and a rifle, Lester said. Police learned later that two children, ages 4 and 6, also were in the house.

Lester said the first officer to arrive scoped out the house quickly and saw a man inside holding a rifle. The man put down the rifle and opened the front door of the house, but stepped back in when the officer began giving him verbal commands.

The officer was standing just outside when Grandpre reached behind his back, pulled out a pistol and pointed it at the policeman about 5 to 10 feet away.

Gun shots were fired, although Lester said he is not 100 percent sure who initiated the first shot.

Four other officers were pulling up when the shots were going off, but none of them took part in the shooting. Lester said investigators were trying to determine how many shots were fired between the officer and Grandpre, who was standing in the living room by the front door when he was struck.

Grandpre was wearing a military-type vest and police found another gun inside the front of it. Both handguns were .45-caliber semi-automatic pistols and a rifle nearby was a .308-caliber bolt-action.

Lester said a chaplain had talked with Grandpre’s wife after the shooting. She said she and her husband had thrown things at one another before she called police.

Lester said he did not believe the children witnessed the shooting.

Who is Grandpre?

The sheriff had few details on Grandpre, including his background or how long he and his wife had been in Butte.

But according to Grandpre’s LinkedIn profile, he studied aerospace welding at Montana Tech. He served in the Marines, the U.S. Army and Montana Army National Guard. LinkedIn is a business-oriented social networking service on the internet.

He described himself on the profile as serving as a Combat Engineer 12B in the Army from December 2008 to September 2013; in the infantry/medic with the National Guard, specializing in explosives handling; and was deployed to Iraq in 2006-07.

“As infantry in Iraq I operated armored vehicles during convoy escort operations from southern Iraq (Tallil) up the MSR (Main Supply Route) into northern Iraq. Conducted mounted and dismounted security operations during convoy ops in and around Baghdad, Fallujah, BIAP, Taji, and Anaconda,’’ his profiles said.

He served in the Marines from June 1999 to October 2002. The profile also describes him as a construction equipment operator and handyman.

The profile also listed Grandpre as a “semi-retired volunteer.’’

This statement by Grandpre, posted in the 2013 LinkedIn profile, reads:

“My Brother Jake and I are working on starting a non-profit organization to act as quick response to natural disasters and war zones; we are specialists in high-danger areas where other relief organizations are unwilling to go. i.e. Frontline First Responders. We also want to work with other Veterans and Wounded Warriors in our off time as morale builders by providing opportunities to fly in private aircraft. In addition we plan to offer low to no-cost aviation training in maintenance, A&P Certification, Pilot training, and intro to kit aircraft building.”

Neighbors react

Brad Taggart lives next door to 604 S. Clark St., located a block south of St. James Healthcare on the Butte Hill. The steep street features neatly kept, mostly small homes.

Taggart said his bedroom window faces the house, and he was awakened about 2 a.m. to the sound of a man yelling. Taggart's dogs, who were in his bedroom, also started barking.

"I heard a guy scream, can't remember what he said, but it was some guy yelling and then five gunshots. Then, within a minute, we had police here and fire trucks,'' Taggart told The Montana Standard.

Taggart, who has lived 14 years in the neighborhood, said he didn't know the occupants of 604 S. Clark Street, and believes they moved in last fall. The house has seen several different occupants since its owner died some years ago, he said.

Taggart said he knows all his other neighbors. He didn't go outside during the commotion, but later in the morning ventured out to see the neighborhood and street cordoned off with police tape.

Arthur Lillyblad, who lives three houses down from the Grandpre home, said neither he nor his wife heard any of the commotion early Thursday.

While he didn't know the family, Lillyblad said they had "never been a problem'' in the neighborhood. He said he never talked with Peter Grandpre, but "we waved to each other'' as Grandpre passed in his vehicle. "He seemed like a very congenial man,'' Lillyblad said.

Lillyblad also observed the kids playing in the yard on several occasions.

"They seemed like happy children,'' he said.