BB gun.jpg

A photo of the BB gun the New Hampshire Attorney General's office reported 19-year-old Lane Lesko of Ann Arbor pointed at police during a confrontation in June. A New Hampshire officer fatally shot Lesko after a police chase and confrontation. The Attorney General's office ruled the shooting was justified.

(Courtesy | New Hampshire Attorney General's Office)

Lane Lesko, 19

ANN ARBOR, MI - The police shooting of Lane Lesko was justified, the New Hampshire Attorney General's office says.

The 19-year-old Ann Arbor man was shot and killed by police on June 21 after a police pursuit on Route 136 in Peterborough, New Hampshire.

The New Hampshire Attorney General's Office issued a 27-page report on Wednesday, July 20, saying the office will file no criminal charges against the police officer who killed Lesko.

"Following a full investigation of this deadly force incident by the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General finds that Greenfield Police Chief Brian Giammarino's use of deadly force on June 21, 2016, was legally justified," the report stated.

According to the report, Lesko advanced on an officer with what looked like a black handgun and refused to put it down when an officer shot and killed him. Police found the gun was a loaded BB gun.

Lesko was at a residential adolescent therapeutic wilderness treatment program in Stow, Maine, for his bipolar disorder, said his mother Pat Lesko. He had two run-ins with police in Ann Arbor and had a delayed sentence to allow him to get treatment.

In the two days before the incident, officials at Summit Achievement center where Lesko was staying had reported him missing from a campsite, and authorities believe he was responsible for stealing a canoe, pontoon boat and truck, the Union Leader reported.

The Attorney General's report says Lesko committed an armed robbery with what appeared to be a handgun, stole a BMW SUV in Maine and drove to New Hampshire.

Police in the area put out a warning about the stolen vehicle. Giammarino spotted the vehicle and tried to pull him over, but Lesko sped away at speeds of up to 80 miles per hour.

Police stopped the vehicle with spike sticks, and Lesko pulled over and exited the vehicle. The report states Lesko refused to obey orders to show his hands, and began yelling at the officers to shoot and kill him.

He grabbed what looked like a black handgun and started shooting at the officers. Although it made a different noise from a typical handgun, officers couldn't tell if it was real or an Airsoft-type gun, according to the report.

Lesko began to "quickly move" toward police, pointed the gun at Giammarino and did not drop the weapon when officers told him to.

"Fearing for his life, and believing that Lesko's handgun was a 'real' firearm, Giammarino fired four shots at Lesko, hitting him once and killing him," the report states.

Police then determined the gun was a loaded black Umarex XBG BB gun.

None of the officers at the scene was wearing a body camera, according to the report.

New Hampshire law allows a police officer or citizen to use deadly force if they believe it's necessary to defend their life or the life of another person. The report concluded Lesko created a dangerous situation.

None of the officers on scene knew about Lesko's mental health troubles, the report stated.

Lesko had run-ins with the law in Michigan in 2015.

Police say he stole a Dodge Charger in May 2015 from the Cueter Chrysler dealership, 2448 Washtenaw Ave. in Ypsilanti Township, after he claimed he was an FBI agent. He then crashed the car near Toledo, Ohio, and presented himself as an FBI agent to authorities, police said.

Two months later while out on bond, he was charged with home invasion for allegedly breaking into a neighbor's Ann Arbor home.

Lesko pleaded guilty to unlawfully driving away a vehicle, first degree home invasion, lying to a police officer and false pretenses less than $200 in January.

Washtenaw County Trial Court Judge Darlene O'Brien delayed his sentence a year, so he could complete mental health and substance use treatment.