Joyce Orlando jorlando@shelbystar.com

Just after 4 p.m. Tuesday, Cleveland County 911 received a call about a person threatening to harm himself.

By 5 p.m., Pedro Cruz-Amado, 24, died in an officer-involved shooting at a residence at 1300 E. Stagecoach Trail in the Fallston area. Cleveland County Sheriff Deputy Scott Trammel was dispatched to the residence to assist EMS with an individual suffering from an apparent mental crisis.

“Pedro had been battling depression, and he asked his mother to call someone. His sister called 911,” Cruz-Amado’s stepfather, Daryl Carpenter said.

The 911 caller stated, her brother was threatening to harm himself, and he was in the yard with his mother telling everybody, "bye."

Trammel encountered Cruz-Amado sitting on the front porch of the residence, according to Wednesday's written release from the Sheriff’s Office. As Trammel was walking toward the porch, Cruz-Amado allegedly charged Trammel, striking him with a metal chair.

According to reports from the Sheriff’s Office, Trammel began to retreat. Cruz-Amado then picked up the metal chair up, hitting Trammel in the head. After being hit on the head, Trammel used deadly force to stop the attack of Cruz-Amado, according to statements from the Sheriff's Office.

Trammel has been placed on administrative paid leave, which is standard procedure for the Sheriff’s Office in any officer involved shooting.

The family speaks

During the alleged altercation, Cruz-Amado’s mother was still on the front lawn. Four other family members were inside the home, Carpenter said Wednesday.

Carpenter was working four hours away in Charleston, S.C., when he received a call that Cruz-Amado had been shot around 5 p.m. He was on the road back to Cleveland County by 5:15 p.m.

“My son needed help. I don’t know what happened,” Carpenter said.

Carpenter is acting as the family spokesman and relayed what he was told by his family and investigators when he arrived home Tuesday night.

Once the call was made on Tuesday, the family said EMS waited nearby at Bingham Road for law enforcement to arrive. When Trammel arrived at the scene, Cruz-Amado became agitated by his presence.

“Pedro didn’t want the police there,” Carpenter said.

Cruz-Amado allegedly took a metal patio chair from the front porch of the home and walked toward Trammel, who was around 20 feet away near a tree in the front lawn. After Cruz-Amado threw the chair, Carpenter said he went back to the front porch, grabbed another chair to throw and walked back toward Trammel. Then, when the two were just a few feet away from one another, Trammel allegedly shot him three times. Cruz-Amado was hit and fell near a tree where he died.

According to the family, Cruz-Amado did not have any other weapon other than the chair.

Carpenter described Cruz-Amado as fighting depression, but he dealt with it by working.

“We remodeled this house. He was a good boy … I’m not sure why (Trammel) shot (Cruz-Amado). He had time to switch weapons,” Carpenter said. “I know that (law enforcement) is hard work. We called for help, though, and my son was shot.”

Under investigation

Every deputy is armed with a Taser, along with their service weapon, Cleveland County Sheriff Alan Norman said.

Norman stands behind Trammel’s actions.

“A preliminary review shows that Deputy Trammel did not violate any policies or procedures,” Norman said.

Trammel has been a Sheriff’s Office deputy for five and a half years. In that time he has provided security for the Cleveland County Courthouse and worked as a detention officer in the Cleveland County Jail, both run by the Sheriff's Office. He has not faced any disciplinary actions during his time as a deputy.

“It is sad that an individual had to lose a life. I would ask the public to keep Deputy Trammel and his family along with the family of Mr. Cruz-Amado in their thoughts and prayers,” Norman said.

Norman would not comment on Sheriff's Office protocol when dealing with individuals dealing with a potential mental crisis. There is no dash camera footage from the deputy’s vehicle, Norman said. The Sheriff's Office is not equipped with body cameras.

The State Bureau of Investigation will conduct an independent investigation. Representatives from SBI said the investigation could take several months.

11:22 a.m.

Press release from the Cleveland County Sheriff's Office:

On Tuesday June 21, 2016, Deputy Scott Trammel was dispatched to 1300 E. Stage Coach Trail reference to assist EMS with a psychiatric person. The 911 caller stated that her brother was threatening to harm himself and he was in the yard with his mother telling everybody bye. Once on the scene Deputy Trammel encountered a Pedro Cruz-Amado sitting on the front porch of the residence. As Deputy Trammel was walking toward the porch, Mr. Cruz-Amado charged Deputy Trammel striking him with a metal chair. As Deputy Trammel began to retreat Mr. Cruz-Amado picked the metal chair up again striking Deputy Trammel in the head at which time Deputy Trammel used deadly force to stop the attack of Mr. Cruz-Amado.

The SBI has been called in to conduct an investigation which is protocol for officer involved shootings. Deputy Trammel has been placed on administrative paid leave which is standard procedure for officer involved shootings.

Sheriff Norman states “A preliminary review shows that Deputy Trammel did not violate any policies or procedures. It is sad that an individual had to lose a life. I would ask the public to keep Deputy Trammel and his family along with the family of Mr. Cruz-Amado in their thoughts and prayers.”