What started as an armed robbery turned into a hostage situation and ended with a suspect dead and an officer injured on Monday morning at the Dollar General in Hardeeville. The suspect, 23-year-old Raphael Bostick, was killed in a shootout with officers inside of the store.

Police say a neighbor across the street saw Bostick walking up to the store just before 8 a.m., and called in the armed robbery. The neighbor tells NEWS 3 he was armed and wearing a ski mask.

“This is crazy what happened this morning,” neighbor Jimmie Jenkins said.

“I heard at first, I heard some shots. I thought it was fireworks. Then I come out, I come out I open the door, I see the ambulance and stuff was going on across the street I said ‘Wow what’s happening?'” Jenkins said.

Another neighbor saw the three officers enter the store, shattering the glass door, and getting the clerk out who had been held hostage.

Immediately, [suspect] took off to the back of the store. [Officers] entered the store and apparently the clerk did break away from the suspect at that time. That’s when the gunfire started,” Hardeeville Police Chief Sam Woodward said.

“We’re grateful that the citizen that was inside working is okay,” Sheriff Greg Jenkins said.

“The clerk’s shaken up, as you can understand, she’s shaken up. She might have twisted her ankle trying to get away from the suspect. She is with my victim’s advocate right now,” Woodward said.

Neighbors say the clerk ran to safety, down Highway 17. That’s when they say gunshots were heard from inside the store. Gunfire was exchanged between the two Hardeeville Police officers and a Jasper County Sheriff’s deputy.

The sheriff’s deputy, Dan Morgan, was shot and injured in the foot. He recovered in the hospital. Bostick was transported to the hospital and pronounced dead there.

The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) has taken over the investigation. They are investigating who fired the first shots, and if the deputy was injured by friendly fire or by Bostick’s.

BACKGROUND: Police in the Lowcountry are investigating a store robbery turned hostage situation, turned shootout that happened in Hardeeville on Monday morning.

It happened at the Dollar General at Whyte Hardee Blvd. around 8 a.m.

Hardeeville Police Chief Sam Woodward says the suspect, now identified as Raphael Bostick of Savannah, walked into the store to rob it when a neighbor saw what was happening and called it in.

When Hardeeville Police and Jasper County Deputies arrived, Bostick was holding a store clerk hostage. Officers shattered the glass doors to break into the business. The clerk was able to make it to safety, as Bostick tried to escape through the back of the store.

That was when the shots were fired. Bostick and the three officers inside exchanged gunfire. Bostick was transported to a hospital, and pronounced dead.

Jasper County Deputy Dan Morgan was shot in the foot and is expected to recover.

We’re still trying to gather more information and we’ll update this story throughout the day.