(Source: WMC Action News 5)

Quencezola Splunge (Source: Facebook)

DESOTO COUNTY, MS (WMC) - No charges will be filed against officers involved in Wednesday's standoff and shooting in DeSoto County.

Mississippi District Attorney John Champion added that officials will not investigate the situation any further.

"In this world we live in nowadays, these guys got a target on their back everything they do," Champion said. "These guys did their job. There shouldn't be any scrutiny on them."

After viewing a partial video of the shooting recorded by WMC Action News 5 on the scene Thursday, Champion said they have what they need to make that determination.

"There is not a lot more to do. I have seen the video, not all of it, obviously y'all didn't do that one part, but I have seen up to the last part," Champion said. "But, by talking to the officers that were on the scene, by looking at the physical findings there at the scene, including the weapon that he had and we did look at the weapon and did confirm that it had been fired as the officers said. There is just not much more to do at this point. I'm not going to prolong something when the officers did what they're supposed to do."

Champion and Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesperson Warren Strain identified the suspect in the standing as Quencezola Splunge. Investigators said Splunge, 44, had several aliases including Maurice Splunge and Maurice Harris.

Splunge also has a lengthy criminal record including multiple charges of sexual assault, battery, and drug charges. He had an active sexual assault warrant out of Chicago which described him as armed and dangerous. Champion said Splunge had served two terms in federal prison for gun charges, but he also had past charges for narcotics, domestic battery, and a stolen vehicle.

Investigators said Splunge tried to obtain a driver's license at a DMV location. When they put his information into the system, it showed that he was wanted and considered armed and dangerous.

"Advised him that he was going to pat him down for weapons. At that point, Splunge assaulted the officer, ran to his car, jumped in," Champion said.

That's when he took off and let police officers on a chase through DeSoto County. The chase lasted until sheriff's deputies popped his tires with stop sticks and forced him to stop.

The chase ended at Citizens Bank & Trust in Walls, Mississippi, where he remained in a standoff with police for more than a hour.

"Splunge got out of the vehicle with a gun to his head and was pacing around the vehicle for an extended period of time," Champion said.

Investigators surrounded him and tried to convince him to put the gun down.

"And at some point he just turned, pointed the gun and fired a shot at the officers," Champion said. "He fired one. That's the only opportunity he had was to fire one...They made every effort to make sure Mr. Splunge was given every opportunity to put the weapon down, and he elected to fire a shot at the officers."

Champion said there were approximately five or six officers to the right of Splunge, where he aimed the shot.

In the video recorded by a WMC Action News 5 crew on the scene, Splunge can be seen holding his gun to his head with his right hand. He then moves his arm perpendicular to his body and fires a shot at officers who were staged in that direction near the bank building. That's when SWOT officers fired several shots, killing the man.

"I'm going to guess it was around 20 [shots fired]," Champion said.

Champion said they did what they were trained to do, protect the citizens and themselves and after Splunge fired his weapon, they were justified to shoot him.

Copyright 2016 WMC Action News 5. All rights reserved.