KENT — William J. Pio Jr.'s ex-girlfriend — still a close friend and the mother of his oldest son — called police last June because she was desperately worried about him.

He'd matter-of-factly told her he'd swallowed a bottle of Vicodan, was drinking a fifth of Everclear and shooting holes in the ceiling.

"It didn't sound like him and I was afraid for him," Ann Mitchell told a King County District Court jury yesterday during the first day of an inquest into Pio's death.

Two hours after Mitchell called police, Pio was dead, shot by a member of the Valley Special Response Team. Police contend that Pio was suicidally depressed on June 26, 2002, and that he raised his rifle at SWAT team officers because he wanted to be shot.

Family members who attended the inquest yesterday agreed Pio was depressed, but they said police were too aggressive, in part, because a King County deputy sheriff had been shot just four days earlier.

"We think it was overkill in retaliation for the officer that was killed," said Pio's sister, Suzan Pio-Phillips.

"We thoroughly explained to them that he was a danger to no one but himself, but they never let a family member in to talk to him and they never gave the order not to use lethal force."

When officers arrived at Pio's home in the 1000 block of I Street Southwest, they heard four shots and saw Pio walking around inside with what appeared to be a rifle and a handgun, according to Sgt. Gregory Wood of the Auburn Police Department.

Negotiators and the Valley Special Response Team, an emergency police unit with officers from several South King County police agencies, were called in.

After several hours, Pio left the house as if to surrender, then walked toward his car and raised his rifle at officers who were trying to talk to him, according to an Auburn police spokeswoman.

Aukeen District Court Judge Richard Bathum told the seven-member jury yesterday that police officers are allowed to use deadly force if they believe they have been threatened.

The purpose of the inquest, which is mandated in King County whenever someone is killed by a law-enforcement officer, is to determine the facts of the shooting rather than decide fault.

Later, a prosecutor reviews the testimony and decides whether charges should be filed. A police department internal review determines whether the shooting was justified.

Christine Clarridge: 206-464-8983 or cclarridge@seattletimes.com