FLINT, MI - Police said Antonio Glenn Richardson repeatedly rebuffed demands to drop a knife, and was twice shot with a Taser by police inside a home at 505 W. Alma St. on Wednesday, June 22, after Richardson allegedly stabbed two people.

Richardson, 46, began having a medical emergency after he was in handcuffs and later died at the hospital in what police said was a drug-related death.

Officers from the Michigan State Police, Genesee County Sheriff's Office and the Flint Police Department responded to the home about 2:15 p.m. for reports of a stabbing.

Police said Richardson had just stabbed a man and a woman inside the home.

Flint police said on Thursday, June 23, that the 51-year-old woman and 52-year-old man are both in good condition.

After barricading himself inside the home, police were able to get in and sent a K-9 officer in after Richardson.

Police called the dog off after seeing Richardson still had a knife.

Richardson also held the knife to his own throat, said Michigan State Police Spokesman Lt. David Kaiser.

"The guy holds the knife to his throat, officers tell him to drop the knife and he wouldn't," Kaiser said. "When they deployed the first Taser nothing happened. When they deployed the second Taser, nothing happened. He wouldn't drop the knife."

A state trooper and Genesee County Sheriff's deputy both shot Richardson with a Taser on separate occasions, Kaiser said.

Police did not say where on the body Richardson was struck with the Taser.

Eventually, officers were able to wrestle Richardson to the ground and put him in handcuffs after several minutes of struggling with him, Kaiser said.

When police began to turn the handcuffed Richardson over, they realized he was having a medical emergency and he was taken to the hospital and later died.

"There were drugs plainly visible on the kitchen table," Kaiser said. "It is believed that the narcotic use was a contributing factor."

An autopsy is planned to determine the cause of death, police said.

"People don't die from getting struck by the Taser," Kaiser said. "Continually throughout this he was given loud repetitive commands 'drop the knife! Drop the knife! Drop the knife!' He refused to comply.

"He just stabbed two people. I thought the officers executed a great deal of restraint and tried to take the suspect into custody without anyone being hurt."

Dominic Adams is a reporter for The Flint Journal. Contact him at dadams5@mlive.com or 810-241-8803. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook or Google+.