PATERSON -- The Bergen County Prosecutor's Office determined that two city police officers were justified in their use of deadly force against a suspect during a botched robbery a year ago, the prosecutor's office said in a statement Wednesday.

The investigation, which was handled by Bergen County authorities to avoid a conflict of interest, involved the death of 36-year-old Paterson resident Ismael Miranda at the hands of police on June 23, 2016.

Investigators concluded that Miranda and another man, Cesar Rosario, set up a meeting with an unnamed drug dealer on that date as a pretext for the robbery.

Rosario and Miranda met with the dealer and another man, whose identity was also withheld, on Summer Avenue. Miranda, with clothing covering his face, pulled a gun and approached one of the men as he sat in a minivan while Rosario distracted the other man.

The man sped away from Miranda, who fired a single round at the fleeing vehicle.

Moments before Miranda fired, two plainclothes Paterson police officers on patrol were approaching Summer Avenue to investigate the disturbance among the men. After Miranda shot at the fleeing vehicle, the officers saw him standing in the street, still holding the gun, according to investigators.

The officers left their unmarked car and verbally identified themselves to Miranda, also showing him their badges. Miranda ignored their commands as he walked in their direction towards a spot between two parked cars while still holding the gun. When Miranda raised his weapon, both officers opened fire, squeezing off seven rounds between them.

Miranda was shot four times, including in the head, according to an autopsy. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

A .380-caliber handgun with a round stuck in the gun's ejection port was found near Miranda's body and a matching shell casing was also recovered, the prosecutor's office said.

The officers "were legally justified in using deadly force because such force was immediately necessary to protect themselves from being shot by Mr. Miranda who had, moments earlier, discharged his firearm in full view of Officers 1 and 2 at a fleeing vehicle." the prosecutor's office said.

The state Attorney General's Office concurred with the conclusions reached by investigators, the prosecutor's office also said.

Rosario, Miranda's accomplice, has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit armed robbery and is scheduled to be sentenced June 30.

Paul Milo may be reached at pmilo@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter@PaulMilo2. Find NJ.com on Facebook.