Dolton Police Chief Robert Collins said a man shot and killed by two officers in his department during an alleged armed robbery early Sunday morning had an extensive arrest record.

Donte Johnson, 30, was allegedly wearing a mask and standing over a man when police responded within seconds to a call of an armed robbery at the Shell gas station, 1445 E. Sibley Road, at 5:02 a.m.

Advertisement

Police said Johnson pointed a gun at them before two responding officers opened fire. The Cook County Medical Examiner's Office said Johnson died of multiple gunshot wounds.

Collins said the two officers, whose names have not been released, are doing well emotionally. However, he added, "With any crisis situation, I will require the officers to meet with a counselor before returning to work."

Advertisement

The police chief said Johnson had been previously arrested 32 times, and had been charged with 12 felonies throughout the Southland, including in Crestwood, Calumet City, Country Club Hills, Orland Hills and Oak Lawn. Johnson had been convicted nine times, the chief said.

Nevertheless, Johnson's father, Michael, believes his son would run away from police rather than pointing a gun at them. He acknowledged his son did sometimes carry a gun.

Collins said a "Glock .45" was recovered from the scene, although Johnson did not fire it.

Michael Johnson said he counted at least 12 shell casings at the scene evidently fired from police.

He also said it appeared his son's body had been moved between the time of the shooting and when he arrived at the scene later in the morning.

A video posted by passersby on Facebook at 5:20 a.m. appears to show a body lying near the car wash at the gas station.

Daily Southtown Twice-weekly News updates from the south suburbs delivered every Monday and Wednesday By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Michael Johnson said he is trying to contact the makers of the video because the posters can be heard saying that they witnessed the shooting and that the man was trying to run away.

Michael Johnson said Donte's mother is currently in the process of hiring an attorney to get to the bottom of what happened.

Advertisement

He said he hasn't received an autopsy report showing where his son was shot but believes it could be in his back.

Video surveillance footage might show exactly what happened but authorities have yet to release it.

The case remains under investigation by the Illinois State Police.

"There is not a timeline for when the video may be released as this is an ongoing investigation," said Illinois State Police spokesman Jason Bradley.

Frank Vaisvilas is a freelance reporter for the Daily Southtown.