The two Lincoln cops did not want Germichael Kennedy to die.

But after a foot pursuit and a physical struggle, the young man from Mississippi pointed a gun at one of them and Officers Mario Robinson and Josh Atkinson opened fire, hitting him 13 times.

Robinson, a 22-year veteran of the Lincoln Police Department, and Atkinson, an officer for eight years, said in recorded interviews after the June 26 shooting near the Belmont Recreation Center that they tried to reason with Kennedy but he lifted his gun and pointed it at Robinson's head. Multiple witnesses confirmed that account.

“I wanted to attempt to save his life,” Atkinson told the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Office. “I didn’t want him to, uh, I didn’t want him to die, so I holstered and started lifesaving efforts.”

Police started looking for Kennedy at 3 a.m. after he shot 20-year-old Marlene Rashidi to death and wounded Dezarae Mann, 23.

Interviews and physical evidence presented to a grand jury in October detail what happened from the time police developed Kennedy as a suspect in the separate shootings and offer a window into the internal struggle one officer had in deciding whether lethal force was necessary.

Nebraska law requires a grand jury investigation whenever someone dies in police custody or while being arrested. In this case, the grand jury ultimately cleared both officers.

The Journal Star reviewed hundreds of pages of testimony and evidence from the grand jury transcript to get a clearer picture of what led to Kennedy's death.

* * *

Kennedy shot at a red Kia with three women in it just after 3 that morning at Portia and Knox streets. Rashidi was in the backseat and died later at a local hospital.

Mann was in a separate car hit by six bullets, one of which hit her near the armpit, traveled through her abdomen and landed on her lap.

The shooting followed a fight between Kennedy and a group of men in the area. None of the women had anything to do with the fight, police said. In fact, Rashidi and Mann did not know each other and were with separate groups that morning.

Multiple witnesses named Kennedy and described his car, which had been stopped for two unrelated traffic violations just hours earlier. A friend of Kennedy's called police at 4:02 a.m., saying he saw Kennedy grab a gun from the friend's apartment near 12th and D streets about an hour earlier and was worried about him.

At 4:30, police spoke with Kennedy's mother, Shirley, who said he called her in Mississippi to say he'd been involved in a shooting and was in trouble, Officer Luis Herrera told the grand jury.

"She was talking to him, telling him to turn himself in," said Herrera, who investigated Rashidi's death. "But she said that he wasn't going to do that. He was afraid."

About two hours later, police found Kennedy’s car in a lot at 20th Street and Cornhusker Highway.

Thirty-two live rounds lay on the passenger seat, Robinson said. Kennedy’s cellphone was in a cup holder, his ID on the driver’s seat.

At 9 a.m., Robinson got a report that Kennedy was walking on Conestoga Drive, a curved street off Portia just south of Hartley.

Robinson drove there, saw Kennedy and got out of his cruiser.

“I basically tell him to let me see his hands,” Robinson told the grand jury. “I was going to place him in custody at that time. He continues walking northbound … I’m getting on the radio saying it’s him. I have him at gunpoint.”

But Kennedy kept his right hand by his waist, out of Robinson's view, and just stared at him instead of following his orders.

“I’m thinking at that point in time is he bluffing me or not?” Robinson told the grand jury. “I put my firearm away. I pull out my Taser. And I kind of think about it. It’s like, well, he’s supposed to have a weapon. I can’t see his hands. I put my Taser back and go back to my firearm. He doesn’t say a word to me. I keep telling him you’re under arrest and let me see your hands, and he just stares at me and stands there with his hand inside of his shorts.”

Robinson moved closer and tried to arrest Kennedy, but the two struggled and fell to the ground. Kennedy got up and Robinson reached for his shirt, but Kennedy broke free and ran.

The two ran west behind the apartments on Portia Street. Robinson holstered his weapon as the chase went on.

They came face-to-face again near Belmont Baptist Church. Robinson shot the Taser but missed Kennedy as he jumped through a row of bushes.

“By this time he’s jogging now,” Robinson said. “... He’s getting tired, I’m getting tired. He starts jogging. Then we come to a walk.”

Robinson started to hear sirens.

Officer Joseph Coleman, who was nearby and witnessed the struggle and chase, said Kennedy seemed calm at that point.

As Robinson and Kennedy approached Belmont Elementary, Kennedy pulled a handgun from his pocket. The two were about 35 feet apart.

“I’m still yelling, ‘Stop, drop the gun, drop the gun,’” Robinson said. “And he now turns and faces down the sidewalk and starts walking southbound. I’m still behind him. I also come out on the sidewalk at that time. He continues to walk.”

At that point, Officer Josh Atkinson arrived and stood near Robinson, who said he was focused on Kennedy’s gun.

“I looked at the magazine well, what we call where the rounds go, and I kind of looked at it,” Robinson said. “At that time I was like, I seen -- not seeing a magazine. Didn’t look like there was one. Kind of argued to myself for a couple of seconds trying to rationalize if he would pull a gun that has no magazine. At that point in time it didn’t make a difference to me. I know some semi-automatic weapons can fire without a magazine if there’s a round in the chamber.”

Kennedy continued to walk -- nonchalantly.

“I try to make eye contact because I want to see what he’s doing,” Robinson said. “By the time when I look up, he points the handgun right at my face.”

Coleman, Atkinson and an area resident who saw the shooting would all testify that Kennedy pointed his gun at Robinson's head.

Asked by a Lancaster County Sheriff's Office investigator if he believed Robinson's life was in danger, the passerby said yes. Asked if the officer acted inappropriately, the man said, "he did what he is supposed to do."

When Kennedy fell to the ground and officers determined he was no longer a risk, they ran to his side, Atkinson applying pressure to some of his wounds.

“We talk to him, tell him to stay with us,” Atkinson said.

Kennedy’s autopsy report said he was shot in the arms, chest, legs and back. Bullets hit both lungs, his heart, liver and intestines. He tested positive for alcohol and caffeine.

There was no evidence at the scene that Kennedy shot his weapon, said Sheriff's Capt. Josh Clark, who investigated the officer-involved shooting.

All together, the officers shot 17 bullets.

Asked by members of the grand jury if the officers acted appropriately, Clark said, in his opinion, yes.

"Sergeant Robinson had given more commands than I have really seen in my career as far as the initial contact with Mr. Kennedy," he said. "... Once (Kennedy's) weapon was actually drawn, Sergeant Robinson displayed a lot of patience as far as continuing to give commands and recognizing initially that handgun was pointed to the ground."

Kennedy was from Jonestown, Mississippi. Shirley Kennedy said that after her son graduated from the Job Corps of Louisville, Kentucky, he moved to Lincoln to pursue a job in telecommunications.

Despite the grand jury's decision that the officers acted appropriately, Shirley Kennedy said she believes her son's death wasn't justified and that he was intentionally targeted by police.

"I don't think my son was a danger," she said. "Even if he killed someone, killing him won't bring her back. My son didn't have a voice there .... They didn't have to shot him that many times."

Kennedy's sister, Mekell, said her family hasn't been given all the information on what happened when Kennedy was killed. There is no dash-cam video or body camera video that shows the shooting.

"We're not putting anybody down for them carrying out their jobs," she said. "The only thing we're trying to do is make sure they used all their procedures to prevent what happened. We asked if (the police) had proof (of) him holding the gun. We haven't seen that."