COLUMBIA TWP., MI - A Columbia Township police officer justifiably used deadly force on June 26 when he shot and killed a parolee armed with an aluminum bat, Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka determined.

It is clear Terry Lynn Maurer's actions placed Columbia Township Officer Joe Lalli and Napoleon Township Officer Shane LaPorte in "imminent danger of death or great bodily harm," according to a statement released Friday and signed by Jarzynka.

In response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by the Citizen Patriot's news partner WLNS-TV, the prosecutor also released a video of the incident recorded by the dashboard camera of a police vehicle.

It shows Lalli, a part-time officer who has not returned to work, fire at Maurer six times outside a garage at 8111 Clark Lake Road, where police soon found a methamphetamine lab. Maurer died of his injuries.

The prosecutor's decision, stemming from a Jackson County Sheriff's Office investigation, means Lalli will not be criminally charged. Lalli acted properly in defense of himself and LaPorte, Jarzynka found.

Maurer "rapidly and aggressively" approached LaPorte with a raised baseball bat. He ignored repeated commands to drop the weapon. Even as Lalli began firing, Maurer continued to advance toward LaPorte, the prosecutor's office reported in a detailed eight-page news release.

Lalli continued to shoot until Maurer fell to the ground.

"It appears Mr. Maurer provoked a police confrontation with deadly force (a so-called suicide by proxy)," the prosecutor concluded.

Lalli had his gun drawn and instead of dropping the weapon as instructed, Maurer kept moving. He said "something to the effect of 'kill me then mother f-----,'" the prosecutor reported. This is difficult to hear on the video.

At least one witness heard Maurer say he would not "go out alive" when he learned police officers were on their way to the house, according to the statement.

Lalli had gone at about 10:50 a.m. to the address in response to a 911 call about a domestic violence incident. LaPorte was there as his "back-up."

Those involved in the violence had left in a vehicle but neighbors said there were people in the detached garage.

The two officers went to toward the garage, where Maurer was living. He had spent time in prison for possessing large quantities of marijuana and had absconded on his parole, only attending one mental health counseling session after his October 2014 release, Jarzynka reported.

Lalli, smelling marijuana, attempted to speak with Maurer, who had come to the entry door of the garage, but Maurer did not respond. Maurer eventually shut the door, left the garage through a back door and entered the nearby house, continuing to ignore police requests to speak with him.

Another man, Jasper Sizemore, came to the house door and followed Lalli's commands to come outside and talk about the domestic dispute. The video shows him standing or sitting on a side stoop.

Maurer returned to the garage. Lalli suspected he had a weapon in the back of his shirt. He spotted a black handle and told LaPorte that Maurer had a knife.

According to the video, Maurer reappeared with a bat. Lalli said he looked like "he was possessed."

Maurer moved quickly, holding the bat with two hands in a position the prosecutor's statement describes as "ready to swing."

He went within 6 to 7 feet of the officers and then veered toward LaPorte. LaPorte raised his Taser, but could not acquire an accurate target because Maurer was moving quickly, according to the statement.

Lalli fired three times and Maurer continued to approach LaPorte, the prosecutor reported. Of the six shots, one hit the ground and another hit the house; four hit Maurer.

"It's really a matter of seconds. It happened very rapidly," Jarzynka said.

One neighborhood witness said he had "no doubts" an officer's life was in danger.

LaPorte noted Maurer showed aggression and had "a stare about him," according to the statement. Sizemore said when police arrived, Maurer "lost his mind and started acting crazy," the prosecutor's office reported.

Maurer had been diagnosed as schizophrenic, according to the statement.

He was separated from his wife and was homeless in the woods until he had been allowed to move into the garage. Had he survived, he likely would have returned to prison. The prosecutor's office reported these facts as current "stressors" in his life.

Lalli and LaPorte could not have known his mental condition, and the purpose of the review was not to determine whether they could have acted differently or avoided "this tragic death," Jarzynka said. "Rather, the sole question to be decided is whether the death of Maurer was the result of a criminal act by (Lalli) in this case."

Jarznyka said he looked at all the evidence and found it consistent. Witnesses corroborated police statements and the video provided credence to those statements.

In the month since the shooting, Lalli, a part-time officer with about nine years of experience, has not returned to work, Columbia Township police Chief David Elwell said. The chief has been talking to him about three times a week. "As you can imagine, an incident like that is traumatic, especially for the officer involved."

The prosecutor confirmed what Lalli already knew, Elwell said.

An internal investigation, to check and see if Lalli followed department policy, is pending and expected to conclude next week, the chief said.