UPDATE June 30, 2016 at 6:30 P.M.:

Friends have confirmed to KNOE Tyrone Reado is the man who pulled a gun on two deputies Wednesday night.

Police said they responded to an domestic disturbance Wednesday night; which led them to Tyrone Reado's home on Luther Drive.

They said Reado pulled a gun; then they shot and killed him.

Reado's friend Rebecca Grinffin said she's known Reado for more than 15 years, because he dated her sister.

She said he was at her home on Sullivan Road last night drunk; before the shooting.

She said at some point he ended up pulling out a gun; they kicked him out and she called police.

Grinffin said she found out the news of Reado's death from a cousin, and felt bad that she called police. But realized he pulled a gun on two deputies.

She didn't know that a victim had called police about a domestic disturbance; until the next morning.

"He got the police called on him twice last night. And my sister has been dead almost two years, and we still treat him like family no different, so it's a hurting feeling about the whole situation", Friend Rebecca Grinffin said.

We went to the courthouse and Reado has had a few run ends with the law with several speeding tickets.

Louisiana State Police will continue to investigate.

___

UPDATE June 30, 2016 at 12:12 A.M.:

Michael Reichardt, with Louisiana State Police, says sheriff's deputies responded to a domestic disturbance around 9:20 Wednesday night on Luther Drive.

Reichardt says deputies were looking for a suspect, and knocked on a door at a home on Luther Drive. They say the suspect initially opened the door, then slammed it shut in front of deputies. When the suspect opened the door again, deputies say he had a weapon and pointed it at deputies, resulting in the deputies firing their guns at the suspect.

The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. Louisiana State Police and Ouachita Parish Sheriff's Deputies are still investigating.

Witnesses say they heard 8 to 10 shots fired, but this is unconfirmed by Louisiana State Police.

___

Original Story:

Dozens of Ouachita Parish Sheriff's Deputies and Louisiana State Troopers are investigating a crime scene at 900 block of Luther Drive in Ouachita Parish. That area is also known as Robinson Place. It's just south of the Louisiana Purchase Gardens and Zoo.

Witnesses tell us the shooting involved a Sheriff's Deputy and they claim, the deputy killed someone.

Our crew is on scene and confirms there is a dead body there.

None of this information has been confirmed by the Ouachita Parish Sheriff's Office.