PORTAGE TOWNSHIP — A state trooper failed to yield before making a U-turn just west of the Portage toll plaza in the July 1 crash that resulted in the death of a Highland man, according to a newly released Indiana State Police crash report.

The crash report — released Thursday in response to a public records request by The Times — also noted witnesses saw the motorcyclist, Michael M. Damore, 28, traveling at a high rate of speed in the moments leading up to the crash.

Witnesses also stated the state trooper, Jathan Rose, did not have his emergency signal lights activated when making the U-turn.

The crash report lists the trooper’s failure to yield as the primary cause of the crash, and Damore’s unsafe speeds as a contributing factor.

Damore was traveling west on a motorcycle about 9:30 p.m. July 1 when his motorcycle struck the passenger side of the patrol car, according to state police. Rose located the cyclist, who was ejected from the motorcycle, and began chest compressions, continuing until he was relieved by Sgt. Jordan Steptoe, according to the report.

Rose told police he was traveling east in the area near the toll plaza when he began to make a U-turn, looking to his right to check for traffic. He told police he thought he had sufficient time to make the turn.

Rose said to police he initially thought he was struck by a passenger car that fled the scene, but realized that he was struck by a motorcycle once he saw Damore lying in the westbound lanes.

Portage EMS arrived about 9:40 p.m. and took the biker to Portage Community Hospital, where he died of his injuries.

Four witnesses told police Damore exited the toll booths at an extremely high rate of speed and that Rose did not have his emergency light activated.

A third driver told police Damore came up from behind him on his driver side and was near his front bumper when the crash occurred. Flying debris damaged the driver’s side rear tire and scratched the hood of his car, according to police.

Police last month said the motorcyclist was wearing a helmet but that his motorcyclist driver’s license was suspended and the motorcycle was not registered.