Daniel J. Gross

daniel.gross@shj.com

A former Spartanburg County deputy has been cleared in the fatal shooting of a Landrum man authorities said pointed a rifle at them one year ago.

Alexis George Mishtowt, 63, of 325 Bird Mountain Road, died of multiple gunshot wounds on July 1, 2016.

Newly obtained files from the State Law Enforcement Division show that the Attorney General’s Office reviewed the case and found no criminal wrongdoing on behalf of the Spartanburg County Sheriff’s Office deputy, James Shehan, who fired the shots.

Files state Shehan responded to a call for backup at Mishtowt’s property after an investigator had arrived there during a drug investigation.

When the investigator arrived, Mishtowt and another man approached the unmarked vehicle and began yelling. The investigator explained he was with the Spartanburg County Sheriff’s Office, and Mishtowt went inside the home, reports state.

Deputies arrived at the home and surrounded the house.

While at the home, Mishtowt appeared irate and refused to come outside. A deputy went to the door to place Mishtowt under arrest, and Mishtowt backed into the living room and raised an AR-15 rifle, reports state.

At that point, Shehan shot Mishtowt.

Assistant Deputy Attorney General Megan Burchstead stated in a letter to SLED that she found Shehan used lawful and appropriate deadly force given the circumstances.

“Deputy Shehan followed our training and our policies, and we have a great training staff. If (Shehan) hadn’t been on point with what he did, that guy probably would have killed three or four of our men," Spartanburg County Sheriff Chuck Wright said. "He saved someone’s life, no doubt about it.”

Shehan said in a written statement to SLED that he saw Mishtowt raise the firearm toward another deputy.

John Rollins, the personal representative for Mishtowt’s estate, said he is looking into the case and has yet to see the complete SLED report.

Rollins said he believes deputies agitated the situation, but added that deputies likely had no other choice but to shoot. He said Mishtowt already had been dealing with others coming to his home uninvited in the weeks leading up to the shooting, so he was suspicious of visitors.

“He had lot of foolishness going on around his house prior to that, so who is he supposed to think is there?” Rollins said. “It kept escalating. They should have just went on back to Spartanburg and come the next day to get him out of his bed. … It’s a sad thing all around.”

The investigator said in a statement that Mishtowt's mobile home was known in the areas as “The Blockhouse.”

Mishtowt had been charged with pointing and presenting a firearm in a prior incident, the reports state.

A review of body camera footage shows that most of the cameras did not actually capture the shooting. Shehan’s camera was on, but because of the angle did not show Mishtowt inside the doorway. In that video, Shehan is heard saying “God almighty, he had it pointed right at my face” immediately after the shooting.

The camera on the deputy who approached Mishtowt’s door and told him he was under arrest showed that deputy stepped to the right behind a wall. That camera’s audio picked up the gunshots and the verbal commands for Mishtowt to stay down.

Another deputy’s body camera was not turned on. That deputy said in a statement that it was turned off because there was an undercover officer on the scene.

Multiple firearms were found in Mishtowt’s living room.

Reports state he was shot five times. Toxicology testing showed he had levels of alcohol, marijuana, cocaine and oxycodone in his body at the time. Investigators also found 0.71 grams of cocaine in a Ziploc bag near his body.

Shehan resigned from the Sheriff’s Office about two weeks after the incident.

He started out with the agency as a detention center officer in 2012, and he had been a patrol deputy from December 2013 until his resignation, according to employment records from the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy.

Shehan now works for the Landrum Police Department.

Wright said Shehan had made arrangements to be a school resource officer for Landrum before the shooting incident.