Advertisement Latest information released after officer shoots, kills man armed with AR-15, police say Jai Lateef Solveig Williams shot, killed on July 2, officers say Share Copy Link Copy

Asheville police have released the latest information after an officer shot and killed a man earlier this month. Police said they were called around 7 p.m. July 2 to the Pisgah View Apartments on reports of shots fired.Officers were given a description of the vehicle involved, and when they attempted stop the vehicle they said the driver fled. A chase started and ended at the Deaverview Apartments, police said. According to police, officers could see a woman struggling inside the vehicle.Officials said they gave the driver, later identified as 35-year-old Jai Lateef Solveig Williams, commands but he threatened to an officer and displayed an AR-15.The officer shot and killed him, police said. Officials said four people were in the car, but no one else was injured.Asheville Police Chief Tammy Hooper said shell casings were found at the Pisgah View Apartments where the first report of shots fired originated. They said the AR-15 was recovered from Williams.The Asheville Police Department identified the officer who shot Williams as Sgt. Tyler Radford.Radford has been with the APD since 2008 and is currently a patrol supervisor, police said.Radford was placed on administrative leave immediately after the shooting, which is standard procedure. Police said The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation continues to investigate the incident.They said the SBI has control over Williams’ body, his personal effects and other evidence.Police said that if citizens have questions about the shooting or the SBI’s process, they can contact its field office at 828-654-8901, and leave a message for the case agent, Bret Anders, who will try to respond to all inquiries.Once the investigation is complete, the case will be released to the District Attorney's Office for review to determine if the use of lethal force was necessary.District Attorney Todd M. Williams released the following statement after the shooting: “It is important to determine what happened last Saturday night competently and accurately. Therefore, a thorough investigation may require a significant amount of time. In this case, as in all cases, I pledge to conduct a full and fair review of the investigation. While a thorough investigation and review of the file may take time, I expect to make a determination without unnecessary delay. The same rules regarding a District Attorney’s public comment and the release of information in any pending matter apply in officer-involved shootings. Several factors, including ethical obligations, the integrity of the investigation, privacy concerns, and statutory requirements are all relevant in determining what information can be released. In deference to preserving the integrity of the investigation it is my opinion that further comment at this time would be improper, just as it would be in any other pending investigation.“The Asheville Police Department's Professional Standards Division will also conduct an administrative investigation to determine whether policies were followed.The SBI released pictures of vehicles (pictured below) that were spotted in the area around the time of the shooting.Anyone with information on the vehicles or who was driving them, is asked to contact the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation at 828-654-8901.