FROM STAFF REPORTS

Oklahoma Highway Patrol Lt. D. Heath Meyer, who was struck July 14 by a patrol car involved in a car chase, died Monday from his injuries, Patrol Chief Ricky Adams said.

Meyer, 43, had laid stop sticks on Interstate 35 near N 27 in Moore when troopers Rodney Rideaux and Clint Painter came up the interstate in pursuit.

The troopers, attempting to avoid the stop sticks, struck one another. Painter's vehicle then struck Meyer, fatally injuring him. The driver of the fleeing vehicle, Dangelo Ladon Burgess, 28, was taken into custody that night.

Adams wrote: "It is with a heavy heart that I announce the passing of Lt. Heath Meyer. Lt. Meyer put up a valiant fight but succumbed to his injuries," Adams wrote. "For more than 80 years the Oklahoma Highway Patrol has provided an unmatched commitment to duty, sacrifice and dedication to service above self. Lt. Meyer led from the front and served as a superb example for his family, friends, partners and the public."

More than 20 law officers on motorcycles from OHP and some from Edmond police, led the hearse in the procession that escorted Meyer's body Tuesday morning from the state medical examiner's office in Oklahoma City to Primrose Funeral Home in Norman.

On June 11, 2016, Burgess was arrested after a pursuit that ended when he crashed the car. Meyer worked that crash, Adams said.

Burgess was out on bail on charges in Oklahoma County District Court of aggravated attempting to elude a police officer, driving under the influence, transporting an open container and driving without a license, court records show.

Dozens of OHP patrol cars, SUVs and Oklahoma City police cars followed the hearse as they headed toward Norman.

Adams said Meyer's death makes him the 36th patrol trooper to be killed in the line of duty.

"He (Meyer) is now the 36th brave man who has given his last full measure of devotion to our state and nation. His life stands as a testament to the OHP’s passionate commitment to protecting Oklahomans. Please keep the Meyer family in your thoughts and prayers," Adams wrote.

Meyer is survived by his wife, Missy, and two daughters: Isabelle, 15, and Lily, 10.

Adams said the patrol will release details on funeral services as soon as they are finalized. Black bands are authorized to be worn by troopers in honor of Lt. Meyer, Adams reports.