lightbar

A Polk County sheriff's deputy who fatally shot a Salem man in July 2016 was justified in doing so, a grand jury unanimously found Aug. 24, 2016.

(The Oregonian/File)

A Polk County sheriff's deputy who fatally shot a Salem man last month was justified in doing so, a grand jury unanimously found Wednesday.

Joshua Anthony Bolster of Salem, 29, was suspected of trespassing and harassing an ex-girlfriend at a Monmouth apartment complex and pulling a knife on a man during a confrontation, according to state police and county prosecutors.

Polk County Sheriff's Deputy Casey Gibson fired two shots during a confrontation following a subsequent traffic stop, injuring Bolster, the county district attorney's office said in a news release. Gibson's first shot hit Bolster but didn't immobilize him; the second hit him in the head.

He later died at Salem Hospital.

Authorities said the shooting happened July 5 on Oregon 22 near Doaks Ferry Road Northwest, where deputies stopped Bolster's car, got out of theirs and commanded him to get out of his car with his hands up. Prosecutors said Gibson and another deputy both drew their guns and were about 50 feet away from Bolster's car.

Two more deputies showed up during the confrontation, and they pulled their guns and joined their colleagues in commanding Bolster to get out of the car. Prosecutors described Bolster as non-compliant, hostile and belligerent and said he told deputies multiple times he wouldn't go to jail and that they had to shoot him.

Grand Jury decision

The Polk County District Attorney's Office said a grand jury unanimously found the fatal shooting was justified because:

"The use of physical force was necessary to defend the police officer or another person from the use or threatened imminent use of deadly physical force; and

"The officer's life or personal safety was endangered in the particular circumstance involved."

Prosecutors said Bolster was "partially seated inside the front driver's side of the vehicle, with much of his body obscured from the deputies" during the confrontation. Bolster had "full access to the car's interior contents," prosecutors said.

He told deputies he needed his phone from inside the car, and they told him reaching into the car would be considered threatening, according to prosecutors. Prosecutors said he then started searching inside the car and that deputies couldn't see his hands anymore. Investigators later found the knife on the front passenger seat.

Deputies asked him to stop searching, but he refused to do so and was "verbally combative," prosecutors said.

Prosecutors said Gibson fired a single shot with his patrol rifle, hitting Bolster. Bolster kept searching inside the car while deputies kept telling him to come out and that they were considering his searching to be a threat. They couldn't see what he was up to inside the car, prosecutors said.

Gibson then fired again, hitting Bolster in the head.

The alleged victim in the apartment complex parking lot confrontation told police Bolster retrieved a folding knife with a 4-to-5-inch blade from his car and showed it while advancing toward him, prosecutors said. They said the alleged victim told police he thought Bolster was going to stab him.

There weren't any reported injuries to law enforcement officers, according to an Oregon State Police spokesman.

-- Jim Ryan

jryan@oregonian.com

503-221-8005; @Jimryan015