Reading this on your phone? Stay up to date with our free mobile app. Get it from the Apple app store or the Google Play store.

SAN JOSE — Two officers have been cleared in the fatal 2016 shooting of a suicidal man who shot himself twice in the head before encountering them, with prosecutors saying the man was “twirling” a revolver “like a cowboy” before aiming it at police.

A report released Tuesday by the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office contends that San Jose police officers Michael Santos and Anthony Vizzusi legally shot 18-year-old Anthony Nunez on July 4, 2016 in front of his Feller Avenue home in the east foothills.

“Here, the police knew they were dealing with an irrational, unpredictable person who had apparently decided he had nothing to live for,” Deputy District Attorney Bud Porter wrote in the report. “There is no duty to wait until an injury has been inflicted, or for the person to fire the first shot, for deadly force to be deemed appropriate. The law allows Officer Santos and Officer Vizzusi to fire their weapons in defense of themselves and others until Nunez no longer posed a threat.”

Nunez’s family continues to pursue a federal wrongful-death lawsuit in the shooting, asserting police should have been more patient, and that Nunez was no longer armed when he exited his home and paced back and forth out front as police were staging across the street.

“They were making assumptions that we don’t believe were reasonable,” said Oakland-based civil-rights attorney John Burris, who is representing the family. “It didn’t seem like the circumstances were of such an urgent nature that he should have been shot and killed.”

Tuesday’s report adds some clarity to the dispute, with evidence photos showing a loaded .38 caliber revolver lying a few feet away from Nunez after he was shot.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area and beyond.

The family appears to be predicating its suit on the fact that no independent witnesses attest to Nunez holding a weapon — the closest being a neighbor who gave conflicting statements and acknowledged his view was obscured — and that all firm assertions come from the battery of officers who responded to the scene. Home-security cameras in the area similarly did not offer a definitive view of Nunez and his hands.

“That’s going to be the issue of the case,” Burris said, referring to the lawsuit. “Our position is that he didn’t (have a gun). We have a witness who indicates he did not see a gun.”

Porter, however, is unequivocal in the report.

“Officer Santos and Officer Vizzusi each actually and reasonably believed that they needed to use deadly force to protect themselves and others, when Nunez leveled the gun in the direction of police,” he wrote.

According to witnesses and police statements, Nunez shot himself twice in the head at his home, but the bullets did not penetrate his skull. The gunfire was heard just as Nunez’s girlfriend and her mother were approaching the home to check on him after he was apparently dismissed from his job at local grocery store.

That prompted the girlfriend and her mother to head down to the store, where Nunez’s cousin who lived with him also worked. The cousin went to the house and discovered Nunez bleeding from his head and called 911. The cousin followed the dispatcher’s instructions to take away Nunez’s gun and get it out of reach, so he grabbed the weapon and put it on a back patio before meeting with officers outside, the report stated.

Officer Rubens Dalaison was the first officer to approach the home, and was selected in part because he had crisis-intervention training for interacting with people in mental-health crises. But he backed away, along with trailing officers, after reportedly seeing Nunez in the front doorway holding the revolver, which authorities contend he re-retrieved. The report does not detail how or when Nunez got the gun back.

Dalaison spent over 10 minutes pleading with Nunez to dropping the weapon, according to police and neighbors who overheard “drop the gun” and “throw the gun into the lawn” several times.

Burris said he objected to that tack.

“You do not yell and scream at someone who when someone is mentally impaired,” he said. “It seems to me that more attention should have been given to trying to save his life than trying to take his life. Just because the person is suicidal, you don’t have to oblige him.”

Meanwhile, several officers took cover behind parked cars and nearby porches, including officers Santos and Vizzusi, according to the report.

In his statement to investigators, Santos said “Nunez had the gun in his hand and was swinging the gun around like a cowboy on his trigger finger. Nunez was facing mainly towards the officers north from him. Nunez stopped twirling the gun after two to three times. He held the gun at his side, then he pointed the gun directly at the officers to the north.”

That prompted both officers to each fire a shot from their police-issued rifles, both hitting Nunez.

The report does establish a consensus over Nunez’s mental state, and he was described as depressed by his family and his girlfriend, who received text messages from him the day before voicing a desire to end his own life. But prosecutors say his later actions gave officers little choice.

“When Nunez leveled the gun, he presented an immediate threat of death or great bodily injury that had to be instantly dealt with,” Porter wrote.