A pair of California Highway Patrol officers who shot and killed one man and injured another in Fullerton during an undercover operation have been cleared by Orange County District Attorney’s Office investigators.

Senior Deputy District Attorney Brock Zimmon, in a letter outlining the results of the investigation, concluded that CHP Sgt. John Cleveland and Officer Rich Henderson were legally justified in shooting at a car driven by Pedro Erik Villanueva, killing the 19-year-old and injuring passenger Francisco Orozco Jr., 18.

Villanueva’s family has filed a claim against the California Highway Patrol, contending that the CHP officers’ actions had no justification to shoot at Villanueva’s red Chevrolet Silverado. The claim, a likely precursor to a lawsuit, criticizes CHP policies that allow officers to shoot at occupied vehicles.

Paul Kiesel, the attorney representing the family, said he has not had a chance to read the District Attorney’s Office report that was released Friday, adding that he is shocked it would find the officers’ actions justified.

He and the family plan to move forward with a civil lawsuit, which Kiesel said would allow them to conduct their own investigation.

The night of the shooting, the officers were investigating reports of several car and truck clubs planning to attend “street sideshows,” meet-ups where attendees often block off streets, intersections, freeways or parking lots to show off high-risk driving maneuvers.

Cleveland and Henderson told the district attorney’s investigators that they were sitting in an unmarked black Ford Taurus just after 10:30 p.m. on July 3 when they spotted Villanueva doing doughnuts in a parking lot at the Sante Fe Springs Swap Meet.

The officers reported that Villanueva sped off when they tried to pull him over, according to the District Attorney’s Office’s report. A pursuit, which the officers said reached speeds of 90 mph, ended in a Fullerton cul-de-sac.

The officers told the district attorney’s investigators that they got out of their vehicle, at which point Henderson yelled, “Police!” and ordered Villanueva to show his hands.

“Villanueva suddenly placed his truck in reverse and backed into a vehicle parked along the west curb of Pritchard Street,” according to the DA report. “The impact was severe enough to cause the rear tires of the truck to be lifted off the ground. Villanueva placed the truck in drive and drove directly toward Sgt. Cleveland.”

Henderson fired a dozen shots and Cleveland fired twice as they tried to move out of the way, they told the district attorney’s investigators. Villanueva’s car collided with the driver’s door of the vehicle where Cleveland had been standing, according to the report.

Villanueva was struck by several gunshots and pronounced dead at the scene.

Several witnesses described the officers telling Villanueva to stop or not move. They also told district attorney’s investigators that they saw Villanueva drive toward the officers, followed by a series of gunshots.

Orozco, the passenger in Villanueva’s vehicle, told the district attorney’s investigators that Villanueva appeared to be “super scared” during the pursuit, ignoring Orozco’s repeated suggestions to pull over, the report says. The passenger told the District Attorney’s Office, the report says, that they knew it was the police, seeing at least one light and hearing a horn or siren.

District attorney’s investigators noted that Villanueva was driving on a suspended license, having previously been convicted of driving under the influence.