Therese Apel

The Clarion-Ledger

The man killed in a standoff with local, state and federal officials on Wednesday was accused of raping his ex-girlfriend of eight years last week, according to reports.

Kenyatta Lee Moorehead, 36, was found dead in a home on Midway Road in Hinds County after a 3 1/2 hour standoff that began with gunfire exchanged between him and U.S. Marshals who had come to pick him up on three felony warrants. Authorities said he came out of a closet with a shotgun, and shots were fired.

Whether Moorehead was injured in that exchange and later died, was shot later, or whether his fatal wounds were self-inflicted has not yet been released and is under investigation by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation.

Mississippi Highway Patrol spokesman Cpl. Eric Henry said Moorehead was wanted on rape, aggravated sodomy, and burglary charges out of Georgia.

RELATED: Suspect dead in standoff identified

Moorehead's charges appear to have originated over the last few months, culminating in an incident last week when he allegedly violently raped his longtime girlfriend with their child in the home. The incident report from the Richmond County Sheriff's Department states that Moorehead's girlfriend told officers he had moved out of the home in April after the couple had been together for eight years.

He allegedly returned to the home last Monday. The woman awoke to banging on the door, and when her phone rang, she answered it. As she was on the phone with Moorehead, he kicked in the door while she and their child slept.

The victim then retrieved her 9mm handgun and threatened Moorehead, saying she would shoot him. She pulled the trigger three times, according to the report, and the gun didn't fire. Moorehead then allegedly choked her and forced her to perform sex acts. As Moorehead got dressed, the victim escaped and was able to get a neighbor to call police. Moorehead was gone when they arrived.

That's when police believe he fled to Mississippi.

Official documents show that on April 25, Moorehead and his girlfriend were driving when Moorehead allegedly reached over and grabbed her wrist, then her neck, and then and yanked on the steering wheel. The victim stated that it caused her to pull over on the side of the road. Both of the couple's children were in the car at the time of the incident, according to the report.

Later on that day, there was an altercation with the victim's mother in which Moorehead allegedly pushed and bumped her and slammed her to the ground, according to police reports.

Moorehead has a long arrest history going back to his juvenile days, including having been sentenced to 10 years in prison for two aggravated assault cases in 1996, according to AugustaCrime.com's Greg Rickabaugh.

Moorehead has also been charged with receiving stolen property,felony interference with government property, possession of a firearm by a felon, and obstruction of a law enforcement officer, and simple battery - family violence. He was later charged with battery - family violence, and in 2015 was charged with misdemeanor stalking.

The Clarion-Ledger does not identify the victims of sexual assault.

Contact Therese Apel at tapel@gannett.com. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.