Correction

This story originally misstated the target of the first shot fired by the gunman. The story has been corrected.

CLAREMORE — A man reportedly shot himself outside a Claremore hospital Thursday afternoon after he and an Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper apparently fired at each other, officials said.

OHP Public Affairs Officer Dwight Durant said Claremore police officers received a report at 3:36 p.m. about a man with a gun in the parking lot of the emergency room at Hillcrest Hospital Claremore, at Florence Road and Blue Starr Drive. Durant said the trooper and Claremore officers arrived and got out of their patrol vehicles and that the man stepped out with a long gun and fired a shot. Durant said Friday that shot was not directed at officers.

The man then got back into a car, and the officers started to approach him, Durant said. “The individual comes back out with a weapon and points the weapon at the officers. There’s shots fired back at the individual.”

The man then got back in his vehicle and shot himself, Durant said. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

It wasn’t clear Thursday night whether any rounds from the trooper’s gun struck the man, who along with the trooper had not been identified by late Thursday. However, Durant said it’s believed the man died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

In an interview with KOKI Fox 23, Claremore Deputy Police Chief Charles Downum said the man was trying to shoot himself before threatening the officers. Downum described the altercation as “pretty unnerving” because it occurred at a “very busy ER.”

Ginny Hensley, media and public relations manager for Hillcrest Healthcare System, said the hospital’s doors were temporarily closed Thursday afternoon while authorities assessed the situation. She said all units were open and operational as of Thursday night and that hospital staff would continue to cooperate with the investigation.

“We have various (security) codes that we abide by, and those were implemented after the incident today,” Hensley said. “Our staff knew what to do and responded accordingly.”

Hensley said she didn’t know whether the man had a connection to the hospital.

The OHP did not say Thursday night whether the trooper was placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation, nor did officials elaborate on why the trooper responded to a call reported to municipal authorities.