ELIZABETH -- A 24-year-old Elizabeth man has been identified as the victim in the fatal crash that followed a wild chase of an out-of-control truck driver on Saturday, authorities said.

Jeffrey Oakley was killed when an out-of-state trucker driving just the tractor of a tractor-trailer struck several parked cars and drove through a barricade before crashing head-on into the car Oakley was driving, the Union County Prosecutor's Office said Monday.

The truck driver, Danny Clyde Burnam, 57, who has addresses in California and Colorado, was charged with aggravated manslaughter, vehicular homicide and reckless aggravated assault.

Burnam was driving a Freightliner commercial tractor near First Street and Elizabeth Avenue around midnight when he first hit a car, acting Union County Prosecutor Grace Park said.

The driver of that car, who was not injured, tried to get Burnam to stop, but the trucker instead continued northwest on Elizabeth Avenue, Park said.

When Burnam reached the intersection of North Broad Street and Elizabeth Avenue moments later, an off-duty Union County police officer spotted him driving erratically and tried to intervene, Park said. She said that during the encounter, the officer fired a single round from his service weapon.

Burnam then sped off, heading down North Broad Street, where he hit several parked and moving cars, Park said. When he reached a police barricade at North Broad Street and Parker Road, two Elizabeth officers shot at him several times, striking him, Park said.

She said Burnam, who also goes by the name Danny Clyde Williams, then drove through the barricade.

At North Avenue and Newark Avenue - about a half-mile away from the barricade - Burnam crashed head-on into a car, killing Oakley, Park said.

Two passengers in Oakley's car were also injured and taken to a local hospital. Burnam was arrested and hospitalized for injuries that are not considered life threatening, Park said.

In all, Burnam hit about a dozen vehicles, she said.

The fatal accident remains under investigation and the prosecutor's office is also investigating the police response to the incident, as required by state Attorney General guidelines whenever a police officer fires a weapon, Park said.

Bail for Burnam was set at $2 million. Information about his current condition has not been release.

MaryAnn Spoto contributed to this report.

Jessica Remo may be reached at jremo@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @JessicaRemoNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.