ST. JOSEPH, MI - Larry Darnell Gordon, 44, of Coloma was apparently attempting to escape and tried to take hostages inside the Berrien County Courthouse when he shot and killed two bailiffs and wounded a deputy.

Larry Darnell Gordon

Joseph Zangaro, 61, and Ronald Kienzle, 63, were the bailiffs killed while trying to prevent an escape by Gordon, who was himself shot dead.

"A preliminary investigation reveals that Larry Darnell Gordon disarmed one of the officers who were escorting him to a court hearing inside the Berrien County Courthouse," Berrien County Sheriff Paul Bailey told reporters at a 9 p.m. Monday press conference. "After shooting the officers, Gordon briefly attempted to take hostages while other bailiffs and police officers in the courthouse engaged Gordon and he was shot and killed."

He said the incident took about 5 minutes in total. But during the incident, Gordon shot Deputy James Atterberry Jr. in the arm. Atterberry, 41, joined the sheriff's office in July 2002.

Zangaro was head of courthouse security and had been employed with the Berrien County Trial Court since May of 2004 after retiring from the Michigan State Police as commander of its Bridgman Post.

Kienzle had been a bailiff since April of 2005 after retiring as a sergeant with the Benton Harbor Township Police Department. He was also a U.S. Army veteran.

Bailey said Zagaro and Kienzle were close friends of his. He described them as "well respected amongst law enforcement and within the community."

He said Gordon was currently an inmate of the county jail who was awaiting court appearances on several charges. He said there was no indication that Gordon would be violent Monday.

He alleged that Gordon used a gun he grabbed from Atterberry, but he declined to try to describe the specifics of that. Deputies said Gordon was in a corridor between the third-floor holding cell and courtrooms, when he attempted to come out of that corridor and capture hostages. That was thwarted when he encountered other officers.

Bailey said it appears that Gordon was shot by other responding bailiffs, but he said investigators would have to determine who the shooters were.

He said, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the deceased and those injured."

MLive writer Al Jones may be contacted at ajones5@mlive.com. Follow me on Twitter at ajones5_al.