The Yavapai County Attorney’s Office has cleared of wrongdoing two Flagstaff police officers involved in the shooting death of Donald S. Myers in July.

The Flagstaff Police Department released a letter from the Yavapai County Attorney’s Office Friday afternoon. The letter states, “The evidence from your investigation indicates that Corporal Michael Lavelle and Officer Melissa Seay did everything they could possibly do during the incident to prevent the resulting outcome.”

Officers shot Myers, 32, in July after responding to an “open-line” 911 call at around 4 a.m. The person who dialed 911 did not say anything but the department’s policy is to respond just in case someone is in trouble. Dispatchers traced the call to the Relax Inn, 1500 E. Route 66.

Officer Seay responded to the call and interrupted a possible drug deal in the motel parking lot, according to the Flagstaff Police Department. As she was collecting the identities of each person, Myers, who had multiple misdemeanor warrants for his arrest, gave her his brother’s name and birthdate. His brother also had a warrant.

Officer Zachary Syers arrived to help Seay arrest Myers. As they were trying to handcuff Myers, he pulled a gun and fled toward a mobile home park off North Switzer Canyon Drive. Seay and Lavelle, who had also arrived as backup, found Myers hiding behind an SUV in a driveway.

Seay and Lavelle told Myers several times to come out from behind the vehicle with his hands up. He refused several times and then suddenly stepped out from behind the SUV. According to police reports, Lavelle said he saw Myers reach for his waist, where he believed Myers still had his gun. Lavelle then fired five shots at Myers, three of which struck him and he died at the scene.

An autopsy and toxicology report on Myers showed that he had methamphetamine, opiates, marijuana and alcohol in his system. Officers located Myers’ gun a short distance away from the Relax Inn.

The Yavapai Attorney’s letter goes on to state, “Mr. Myers placed Corporal Lavelle in a reasonable apprehension of being seriously injured or killed (or others being injured or killed) if he did not act with immediate and appropriate force.”