by Tyler Juranovich

Chronicle-Tribune

The exact cause of a Fort Wayne man’s death is unknown as both Marion police and the Indiana State Police continue to investigate Thursday’s armed robbery turned shooting.

Isaiah J. Soehngen, 18, of Fort Wayne, was found dead a little after 7 a.m. Friday in the wooded area behind McDonald’s, 2006 S. Western Ave., roughly nine hours after police believe he robbed the fast food restaurant at gunpoint demanding money, shot a police K-9 and exchanged gunfire with officers.

Just before 10 p.m. Thursday, officers responded to McDonald’s on a report of an armed robbery. Upon officers’ arrival, Deputy Chief of the Marion Police Department Stephen Dorsey said Soehngen ran out the restaurant and towards the wooded area behind the building. As Soehngen tried to run away, police released a K-9, Geronimo, which was able to bite Soehngen at least twice before the dog was shot in the left leg by Soehngen.

Dorsey said Soehngen then began firing at the three police officers. All four exchanged gunfire before Soehngen ran into the wooded area.

Marion and other surrounding police departments quickly set a perimeter, with officers on W. 16th Street, W. 26th Street, S. Western Avenue and S. Geneva Avenue to confine Soehngen in the wooded area.

A helicopter, equipped with a thermal tracking device, was then used to try to find Soehngen but was unsuccessful. Soehngen wasn’t located in the wooden area until 7 a.m. Friday.

The cause of Soehngen’s death is still unknown. Grant County Coroner Chris Butche declined to say what apparent injuries Soehngen had when police discovered him, stating that a likely autopsy this weekend should answer the cause of the 18-year-old’s death.

Dorsey also declined to comment when asked whether police believe Soehngen died as a result of police fire, a self-inflicted gun wound or something else entirely, though did say a ballistics test will likely be completed.

No officers were injured, and though Geronimo was shot, Dorsey said the dog is expected to make a full recovery within a couple of weeks.

The names of the three officers involved in the shooting are currently be withheld. All three, Dorsey said, are currently on paid administrative leave.

Marion police are still investigating the armed robbery, including interviewing family members to try to find out why Soehngen, a Fort Wayne resident, was in Marion.

The ISP is investigating the police-involved shooting.