JENKINS COUNTY, Ga. (WJBF) – Some Jenkins County families want answers after a July police chase resulted in the death of two of their loved ones and left two more loved ones with debilitating injuries.

The men all in a car that a deputy tried to pull over because the vehicle matched the description of a car from a crime that happened in Screven County earlier that day.

For Tracy Tarver, Sr., the intersection of Sardis Road and Greenfork Church Road is a tough place to be because that’s where his 29-year-old son, Tracy Tarver, Jr., was killed in a car crash 5 months ago.

“He played sports. He was a great athlete. I mean, he was just… that was my boy! That was my boy! I loved him and I miss him,” Tracy Tarver, Sr. said.

Tracy Jr. and three friends were driving around Jenkins County when Tracy Sr. got the call his son had died in a car accident.

“I just didn’t want to believe it. I called my daughter and she said, it couldn’t have been him because he was just at my house eating pizza,” Tracy Tarver, Sr. said.

Tracy Jr. and 28-year-old Tyrone Jeff died instantly.

The driver, 29-year-old Lee Lassiter, and passenger 25-year-old Alton Williams were critically injured in the crash.

Investigators say the crash happened after the driver, Lassiter, fled from police after an attempted traffic stop.

Lassiter was driving a dark-colored newer model Chevy Camaro, which matched the description of a vehicle that left the scene of a home invasion in Screven County 40 minutes prior.

The deputy-in-pursuit says the driver was speeding down Sardis Road and tried to make a left turn onto Greenfork Church Road, but lost control of the vehicle, ended up going through a fence and straight into a tree.

“The way it’s written up, it’s like they were doing a crime and got in this high speed chase and crashed. That was in the paper,” Tracy Tarver, Sr. said.

But Tracy, Sr. and the families of the other passengers say there is no way their sons were involved in a home invasion prior to their accident.

“They were at my daughters. They had bought a pizza. My daughter had just had a baby. She told them to stay and watch the child while she went to BI-LO,” Tracy Tarver, Sr. said.

No weapons, no drugs and no stolen items were found in the crashed vehicle, according to Georgia State Patrol, but the question remains as to why the driver, Lassiter, didn’t pull over his car that night.

“My records show there was no insurance on the car, so he might have been running because there wasn’t any insurance and he didn’t want to get his car impounded,” Tracy Tarver, Sr. said.

Even though Lassiter is facing charges for the deaths of his two friends and for fleeing from police, the involved families want to know what happened that night.

Unfortunately, the only passenger who survived, Williams, has a traumatic brain injury from the crash.

“He wasn’t able to say anything then, he’s not able to say anything now. He doesn’t remember it,” Williams father said.

All parties involved are just hoping for closure one day.

“Bills are outrageous. Already, I received a letter for $43,000. That’s a lot of money, which we don’t have,” Williams, Sr. said.

The home invasion case out of Screven County is still under investigation. No suspects have been named.

As for the deadly crash in Jenkins County, the driver, Lassiter, was indicted by a Grand Jury in September on two counts of Homicide by Vehicle, Fleeing From Police and Reckless Driving.

A trial date hasn’t been set, as Lassister is still under medical care for his injuries.