A state grand jury voted Thursday not to file any criminal charges in connection with the death of a Little Egg Harbor Township man who was killed by the Ocean County Regional SWAT Team.

Patrick Fennell, 57, a former New York City cop, was fatally shot by a member of the SWAT team during an armed standoff in July.

When police shot Fennell, he was intoxicated, toxicology tests showed. He was wearing only a bathing suit and a camouflage hat and boots, which were on the wrong feet. He also was holding a .22-caliber revolver.

The shooting was investigated by the Attorney General’s Shooting Response Team.

The incident started about 7 p.m., when Fennell’s wife called 911 and told the operator he was drunk and she had heard shots in the basement, according to a statement from the Attorney General’s Office.

Earlier in the evening, she had confronted him and grabbed some loose bullets that were near him as he loaded a revolver. She told 911 operators that he pushed her away as she took the bullets.

Fennell left the house and headed in a wooded area behind the home.

The Ocean County Regional SWAT Team used a variety of lights, including night vision, to find Fennell, who was moving around in the woods. Negotiators were brought to the scene, but were unsuccessful in establishing communication with Fennell. The SWAT team then attempted to move closer to Fennell.

Officers continued to try to speak to Fennell but he did not cooperate, according to the Attorney General’s statement.

Fennell, who apparently had been lying under brush and leaves, sat up on the ground. Multiple officers said they saw Fennell raise the gun to a ready position, with the barrel pointed up.

The officer who shot Fennell, who the state Attorney General’s office’s did not identify, was about 20 yards away and directly in front of him when the shooting occurred.

Officers ordered Fennell show his hands and put the gun down. According to officers, Fennell ignored commands and pointed the gun in the direction of the officers. One officer then fired multiple rounds from his rifle at Fennell before pausing. Officers yelled that Fennell was “still moving,” and that officer fired several more rounds at him, for a total of eight. That was the only person who fired.

Several officers reported that Fennell said something antagonistic before pointing his gun at the officers. The officer who shot him reported Fennell said, “Don’t come any closer. This is going to be a bad day.”

Officers moved in to secure Fennell once he stopped moving. He was shot in the chest, right arm and hip area, and the revolver was between his legs. Emergency medical personnel were called forward to assist Fennell, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.

Fennell’s revolver, which was partially loaded, had been struck by a bullet and was damaged on the front-facing portion of the revolving chamber of the gun, consistent with the gun being pointed at officers.

Toxicology tests performed in connection with the autopsy revealed that Fennell’s blood alcohol concentration was about 0.12 percent.