Andrew Esquivel, 21, of MIT was killed in Brooklyn on the morning of July 16.This is a July 9, 2016, Facebook photo of him in New York from his page. (Facebook)

He relished his time in New York.

The 21-year old MIT student killed by an allegedly drunken off-duty cop on a Williamsburg sidewalk was eager to start his Big Apple internship at the mobile marketing firm Appboy, his old wrestling coach told the Daily News.

Advertisement

Andrew Esquivel was walking home when he was fatally struck and three others were injured by Officer Nicholas Batka's runaway SUV on a Williamsburg sidewalk at shortly after 3 a.m. Saturday.

"He was the greatest kid in the world," said Scott Weidemier, the head of wrestling at Healbsburg High School where Esquivel attended.

Advertisement

Officer Nicholas Batka, 28, refused a Breathalyzer test at the scene and has been charged with manslaughter. (via Facebook)

"He was just an outstanding person," Weidemier added. "He went out of his way to help people. He was involved in community service. He was an all-American boy."

Esquivel, a Healdsburg, Calif. native, died at Bellevue Hospital at 6:40 a.m., according to the criminal complaint.

Batka, 28, who was seen driving erratically before the crash, refused a Breathalyzer test at the scene and has been charged with manslaughter.

The runaway SUV killed one and injured three others on a Williamsburg sidewalk at shortly after 3 a.m. Sunday. (Vic Nicastro for New York Daily )

After the fatal crash, police struggled to get hold of Esquivel's parents, who were hiking in a remote area of California, family and friends told the Daily News.

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

"We are not commenting until they know," one family member said.

Batka, a former correction officer, has a history of drinking, a former jail colleague said Sunday.

Andrew Esquivel was walking home when he was fatally struck and three others were injured by Officer Nicholas Batka’s runaway SUV. (Facebook)

"He's a nice guy but loves to drink," the old co-worker said.

Batka's Facebook page has multiple photos of him bragging about his drinking prowess.

Advertisement

"He's known to drink a few," said Shawn Miller, 29, who has seen him drinking near his home in Greenpoint.

Batka was also charged with vehicular manslaughter, three counts of assault, driving while intoxicated, driving with impaired ability and driving on a sidewalk.

He posted $300,000 bond and was released. A judge ordered his driving license suspended.