Teresa Stepzinski

A Clay County Sheriff's Office SWAT officer shot to death a suicidal man armed with a handgun who came out of a Lake Asbury home and pointed the weapon at the officer after about a three-hour stand-off that included multiple shots being fired by the man while he was still inside the residence.

Sheriff Rick Beseler said Billy D. Smith, 31, had been threatening suicide and fired about 16 to 20 gunshots before coming outside his Citation Drive home and pointing the gun at the SWAT officer positioned across the street.

Smith was a former U.S. Marine, who had four years of infantry service, Beseler said.

"The subject [Smith] apparently was desperate to kill himself but did not want to do it himself, and wanted a law enforcement officer to do it for him," said Beseler, adding that the Sheriff's Office has called in the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to investigate the shooting - which is the county agency's regular protocol in officer-involved shootings.

"It was clear that his intent was to commit suicide from what he told his family members and from what he told the negotiators," said Beseler, adding that deputies had very little control over the situation. "When someone comes out and points a gun at an officer, there's not a whole lot you can do."

Beseler didn't release the name of the deputy who shot Smith. He is a seven-year veteran of the Sheriff's Office. This is his first officer-involved shooting. According to agency policy, he will be placed on three days of administrative leave with pay.

Beseler said sheriff's deputies responded to the home in the 3300 block of Citation Drive after about 3:15 p.m. to investigate a report that a person - later identified as Smith - was inside threatening suicide. Arriving deputies heard gunfire inside the home, and determined that Smith was alone in there. The deputies set up a perimeter around the home, and notified the Sheriff's Office SWAT team. Neighbors were evacuated as a precaution, he said.

A Sheriff's Office negotiator via telephone tried to talk Smith into surrendering peacefully.

"During that time approximately 16 to 20 shots were fired inside the home. At various times, windows were broken out. The subject [Smith] would communicate by telephone with our negotiator. At times, the subject would hang up and then call back again," said Beseler, describing the negotiations as intense and underway for several hours.

Beseler said at one point, Smith came out of the front door of house and took aim at the SWAT officer.

"The SWAT officer fired one round from his service weapon and struck the subject, who was killed in the yard of the residence," said Beseler, adding that a handgun was on the ground by Smith's body.

Beseler said apparently Smith's father had called 911 after receiving several texts from his son saying that he wanted to kill himself. Smith in his past had been placed in a mental health facility without his consent under Florida's Baker Act, he said.

Smith was alone in the home when the shooting occurred, he said.

No deputies or neighbors were injured, Beseler said. It was a good possibility that Smith had fired some shots out through the windows of the home.

Teresa Stepzinski: (904) 359-4075