A San Bernardino police officer who last year shot and killed an armed man — who authorities say had stolen a vehicle in San Bernardino — was cleared of wrongdoing Thursday, Nov. 9, the San Bernardino County District Attorney’s Office said.

Officer Brandon Koch shot and killed Cody Wayne Jarrett near Highland and Mountain View avenues just after 9 p.m. on July 16, 2016, a district attorney’s news release said. Authorities say Koch had detained Jarrett after stopping him in an alleged stolen car.

“Based on the facts presented in the reports and applicable law, officer Koch’s use of deadly force was a proper exercise of officer Koch’s right of self defense and therefore his actions were legally justified,” a report field by district attorney Michael Ramos said.

The incident occurred when Koch noticed an older model Honda on Highland Avenue, the district attorney’s report said. The driver, later identified as Jarrett, 26, quickly looked at him and turned away. Koch checked the license plate and learned the vehicle had been reported stolen.

Koch followed the car into a parking lot on West Highland Avenue, the report said. Jarrett pulled the car into a parking stall on the east side of the lot and stopped, facing west. Koch pulled into the lot and turned on his emergency lights, pointed his duty gun at Jarrett and ordered him not to move.

Jarrett reached back into the car and grabbed something from the passenger’s side of the vehicle, the report said. Koch ordered Jarrett to show his hands and stay in the vehicle. Jarrett did not reply, the report continued. Instead, Jarrett opened the driver’s side door and got out of the vehicle.

Jarrett had an object, about two feet in length, the report said. Koch believed it was a small aluminum baseball bat. Jarrett began to run toward the driver’s side of the car. Koch warned him he would be tased if he ran. Jarrett ran north and Koch tased him, dropping Jarrett to the ground, but still holding the metal object. He was tased a second time, but continued to hold on to the item.

Koch kicked him in the torso, the report said. But Jarrett stood up. During a physical altercation, Jarrett dropped the weapon. Koch realized the weapon was sawed-off shotgun.

Koch ordered Jarrett to not grab the weapon, but Jarrett refused, the report said. Jarrett picked up the shotgun. Koch then fired two to three shots at Jarrett, who then ran west with the shotgun.

As Jarrett was running, he turned to look at Koch, the report said. Koch, afraid for his safety, the report said, fired two to three more shots at Jarrett, who continued to run west to Mountain View Avenue.

Jarrett again turned toward Koch, who fired two more rounds at Jarrett, who collapsed, the report said.

“Officer Koch knew it would only take Jarrett seconds to quickly turn and fire the shotgun at him,” the report said. “If there was any type of buckshot rounds in the shotgun, Officer Koch knew he could easily be struck and killed. It was reasonable for Officer Koch to believe Jarrett would shoot him given the fact that Jarrett armed himself with a weapon prior to exiting the stolen vehicle, Jarrett physically struggled with Officer Koch attempting to flee, Jarrett was determined to keep possession of the shotgun, and Jarrett refused to comply with Officer Koch’s orders.”

Officer Stacy Moreno arrived shortly after the shooting and said she noticed a shotgun laying near the ground of Jarrett, the report said. Officers administered first aid to Jarrett, who was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Witnesses near the scene said they saw the confrontation, but didn’t notice Jarrett with a weapon, the report said. But video surveillance from a nearby market showed Jarrett running from the vehicle and he appeared to be holding a “long metal object.”

“Jarrett was determined to keep possession of the shotgun, and Jarrett refused to comply with Officer Koch’s orders,” the report said. “Any officer under those circumstances would have made the same reasonable decision to fire their weapon. Thus, Officer Koch’s decision to use deadly force is justified.”