Police shot and killed an armed ex-con who committed two robberies at gunpoint in Brooklyn and then opened fire on responding officers early Sunday, cops said.

Two officers rushed to Debevoise Ave. at Jackson St. in the Cooper Park Houses in East Williamsburg after receiving a pair of 911 calls — one reporting an emotionally disturbed man and the other a robbery at gunpoint — around 7:45 a.m., police said.

Advertisement

Cops spotted Jermaine Johnson, 42, toting a .40-caliber semiautomatic handgun, and fitting the robbery suspect's description, police said.

Johnson opened fire on the officers, who shot back and hit him twice in the torso, said NYPD Chief Jeffrey Maddrey, the head of Patrol Borough Brooklyn North.

Advertisement

Medics attend to Jermaine Johnson, the man fatally shot by police in Brooklyn on Sunday morning. (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News)

"At this time, we do believe he fired at least five shots," Maddrey said. Police fired "as many as 12 to 15 shots."

Johnson was rushed to Woodhull Medical Center, where he died at 8:38 a.m., according to police. They said he had committed two gunpoint robberies "moments before" the shootout.

Johnson, who police sources said had nine arrests on his record, served almost six years behind bars for a 2000 weapon and drug possession conviction.

A gun was recovered at the scene of Sunday's shooting. (DCPI)

"The cops arrived and they told the aggressor to stand back," said witness Darlene Roman, 48. "The aggressor started retaliating and shooting at the officers. It was a scary thing."

Brandon Herron, 17, who shot cell phone footage of part of the incident, said he saw the gunman pistol-whip an older man moments before the gunplay.

"When I looked out the window, I saw him hit the old man," he said. "He walked away, and then I heard someone say, 'Freeze.' The guy tried to run away and then you hear shots."

Authorities are investigating the officer-involved shooting, which took place at Debevoise Ave. in the Cooper Park Houses in East Williamsburg. (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News)

"He (the gunman) was breaking phones for no reason and trying to harm people," witness Roman said. "He tried to take my neighbor upstairs to harm his family. He was obviously on something, obviously high."

Witness Rosa Martin, 54, said she saw the shooter rob another man before cops arrived.

Advertisement

"I thought he was going to shoot him. He had a big gun," Martin said. "He kept telling him, 'Give me your money.' . . . He threw (the victim's) wallet, then broke his phone to the concrete. The guy was so scared."

The two officers were taken to Elmhurst Hospital for observation and treatment for ringing in the ears, police said. Cops were still on scene investigating the shooting.

With Chris Sommerfeldt, Thomas Tracy