Update: Police on Monday released the name of the officer and the name of a man who was fatally shot by the officer on Sunday night.

Officer Stephen Blaylock, 28, shot Michael Ray Ramsey Jr., 43, after Ramsey reportedly threw a screwdriver at officers while causing a disturbance outside a northeast Tulsa home Sunday night.

Blaylock was hired by Tulsa police on Dec. 1, 2011. He is currently on administrative leave with pay pending an investigation into the shooting.

Police initially said Ramsey threw a knife at officers during a confrontation, but spokesman Leland Ashley said on Monday morning that the object actually was a screwdriver. Ashley added Ramsey also was carrying a knife, which he had been using to threaten the homeowner.

Three officers arrived at the house in the 2700 block of East Oklahoma Street about 8:15 p.m. while responding to a call from the homeowner. Upon arrival, they found Ramsey in the front yard carrying a large knife. He ran to the backyard, where officers reportedly gave multiple commands to drop the weapon. When those commands were ignored, an officer attempted to use a Taser on him, Ashley said, but the weapon was ineffectual.

Ramsey then reportedly threw a screwdriver at two officers, prompting the third to open fire. Three shots were fired, Ashley said, striking him three times.

None of the officers were injured during the encounter, and officers found a "large straight-bladed knife" on Ramsey when taking him into custody, Ashley said.

Ramsey was taken to an area hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Blaylock was the officer who opened fire. The other two officers remain on active duty.

A previous version of this story appears below.

Police on Sunday night shot and killed a man who was reportedly wielding knives and causing a disturbance outside a northeast Tulsa home before he allegedly threw one of the knives at an officer confronting him.

The shooting victim — whom officers described only as a white male — arrived just after 8 p.m. at the home in the 2700 block of East Oklahoma Street, Tulsa Police Sgt. Shane Tuell said.

The man and the homeowner were having an argument when the homeowner called police and said the man was in his backyard and threatening him with knives, Tuell said.

When officers arrived at the scene, they found the man in the backyard, reportedly visibly carrying two knives, Tuell said.

The three officers — an officer with a few years of experience, a field training officer and his rookie — commanded the man several times to drop the knives, and he never complied, Tuell said.

An officer then attempted to use a Taser on the man, but it didn’t work.

“It was ineffective for whatever reason. We’ll look into that, as well,” Tuell said.

After the Taser was deployed, the man reportedly threw one of his knives at an officer. Police then fired multiple rounds at the man, striking him several times, Tuell said.

The shooting victim was still alive when he was taken by ambulance to St. John Medical Center. He was pronounced dead at the hospital about 9 p.m., Tuell said.

Crime scene detectives were still processing the scene Sunday night, and Tuell was unsure how many rounds were fired as well as which officers fired shots.

The officers involved will likely be placed on paid leave pending an investigation into the shooting, according to police. From there, the District Attorney’s Office will determine whether to clear the officers for duty or file charges, Tuell said.

Tuell was unsure if the officer at whom the man is alleged to have thrown the knife was injured.

“I will say that in this situation — whether an individual is armed or whether an individual is not armed — this could have been resolved a whole lot better if the individual would have just followed the officers’ commands,” Tuell said. “This would have had a completely different outcome.”

A preliminary investigation indicates the homeowner and the shooting victim knew each other from a stint in jail, though police don’t know why they were fighting Sunday evening or what their current relationship was, Tuell said.

The department didn’t release the name of the victim or the officers involved in the shooting pending notification of their next of kin.