A newly released dash-cam video shows the moment when two Tulsa police officers confronted and fatally shot a man who reportedly charged them with an ax last month.

The recording starts as officers Richard Urban and Jerod Lum drive in separate cruisers to a cul-de-sac in the 2300 block of West 44th Street while responding to a reported domestic disturbance on the evening of July 18.

Upon arrival, one of the officers can be seen exiting his cruiser and immediately drawing his weapon at 39-year-old Jerry L. Brimer, who is standing in the front yard of a home. The officer yells at him, “You better put it down.” The man, who is shrouded by the sunlight, walks into the street toward the off-screen officer.

The man, who police say was holding an ax, can be heard screaming as he approaches, though it’s difficult to make out his words. The officer moves behind a parked vehicle right before four gunshots are heard. Walking back to his cruiser, the officer reports to dispatch, “Shots fired. I got one down.”

The encounter between Brimer and the two officers lasted about 15 seconds.

Brimer was the third person fatally shot by Tulsa police in 2016. The second came the previous night, when a knife-wielding man reportedly threw a screwdriver at officers.

Urban and Lum were dispatched to Brimer’s home after his wife called 911 and said Brimer was armed and threatening her. By the time the officers arrived, the wife was taking cover in her vehicle, which was parked in front of the home.

Police reported that Brimer began making suicidal statements to the officers and came toward them with the ax, prompting them to open fire. Brimer died at the scene.

An internal dash-cam of another cruiser shows an officer interviewing Brimer’s wife, Renita Brimer, less than 30 minutes after the shooting. In describing what led to her calling 911, the emotional woman tells the officer she found her husband, whom she describes as a recovering alcoholic, at a bar near 41st Street and Union Avenue around noon. She says it was his second relapse since April.

Renita Brimer said she took her husband’s keys and wallet and left the bar so he couldn’t drive home. He reportedly called her shortly later, asking her to take him home. According to her, Jerry Brimer became violent when they returned to the house, smashing appliances and ripping curtains.

More than once, she tells police, Jerry Brimer allegedly threatened to kill her. He walked into the garage, at which point Renita called 911. He went outside carrying a handsaw and an ax, which he allegedly used to damage the sides of the garage and a light post.

Jerry Brimer reportedly exchanged the saw for a hammer, said his wife, who took cover in her vehicle.

When the officers pulled into the cul-de-sac, “they got out and seen that he had weapons, and so they (drew) their guns and told him to drop the weapons, and he’s not,” she tells the police officer. “He’s still coming at them. That’s where he was stupid.”

According to her, Jerry Brimer began yelling, “Shoot me,” while waving the hammer and ax.

“And the next thing you know, I’m hearing gunshots and he’s on the ground, and I just lost it that point,” she says.

Both officers were placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation, which is Tulsa Police Department policy.

A police spokesman said Tuesday the homicide unit has concluded its investigation into the shooting and is in the process of sending its findings to the District Attorney’s Office.

Both officers will remain on paid leave until the DA determines whether the shooting was justified.