The gun that a man pointed at law enforcement officers during a confrontation Sunday in Winchester, prompting six of them to open fire and kill him, was just a toy, his father said Monday.

Robert Lee Lourenco Jr., 36, liked to carry around the toy gun, Robert Lourenco Sr. said, as well as a small ax, usually in a backpack, that he would throw at trees.

“I told him a long time ago not to be playing with that (toy gun),” a distraught Lourenco Sr. said outside his Winchester home a few miles from where his son died. “Someone might shoot you.”

Riverside County sheriff’s spokesman Deputy Mike Vasquez said he could not comment about the gun because the investigation is active.

Lourenco Jr. was shot about 12:30 p.m. in the 26800 block of Lawrence Court off Stetson Avenue just west of the Hemet border, according to Riverside County sheriff’s and coroner’s officials.

Dispatchers began receiving calls about 10:30 a.m. that someone was walking around with a hatchet and handgun near Lawrence and Stetson, according to a sheriff’s news release. Deputies requested assistance from agencies including the California Highway Patrol and Hemet Police Department.

Despite officers’ attempts to reach “a peaceful resolution,” the release said, Lourenco “refused to relinquish his weapons or surrender.”

After about two hours of negotiating, Lourenco aimed the gun at officers, the release said, prompting several to shoot him. He was taken to the hospital and pronounced dead at 1:10 p.m.

Five sheriff’s deputies and one CHP officer fired their guns, Vasquez said. All have been placed on administrative leave. Their names have not been disclosed.

Lourenco Sr. said his son was depressed because his truck had been impounded during a recent arrest and he could not come up with the $800 to free it.

Lourenco Sr. said his son was arrested July 17 as he sat in his truck eating cereal, waiting to meet up with someone and start a job that day as a journeyman plumber. Someone called Hemet police, who arrested Lourenco Jr. when they saw he had a six-blade knife, his father said.

Jail records show Lourenco Jr. was arrested at 8 a.m. July 17 and booked into jail on suspicion of driving with a suspended license and carrying a dirk or dagger. He was released July 20, and court records show no charges were filed. His father said the case was dismissed.

Lourenco Jr. began drinking to excess after his wife divorced him and moved out of state with their son, his father said.

Lourenco Jr. – identified by the Coroner’s Office as a Riverside resident – was a graduate of Hemet High who worked in construction. He had been staying with a friend the past few days and his father before that.

When he had a job, he used his money to help others, his father said.

“As God is my witness, he was a good kid,” Lourenco Sr. said.

The sheriff’s investigation into the incident continued Monday. Authorities asked anyone with information to call the department’s Central Homicide Unit at 951-955-2777 or the sheriff’s station in Perris at 951-210-1000.