On July 28, 2016 at approximately 1:45 p.m., the Tucson Police Department received a request for immediate assistance from the Marana Police Department. Information was relayed that Marana PD had located a vehicle occupied by a possible bank robbery suspect. During that contact, gunfire was exchanged between the suspect and Marana Police Officers. The Tucson Police Department was advised that the suspect was armed with a long gun and had fled with a marked Marana Police vehicle.

As Tucson Police Officers were responding to assist, they learned that the suspect carjacked a victim in the 1400 block of West Valencia. When the suspect fled from the scene, he ran over the victim causing serious injuries. Those injuries appear to be non-life-threatening at this time.

The stolen vehicle was described as a white Chevrolet Malibu. That information was broadcast throughout the city and to neighboring agencies. Moments later, Tucson Police Officers located the vehicle driving in the area of East 22nd Street and South Country Club Road. The Tucson Police Air Unit responded to the area to assist.

The Tucson Police Officer involved in yesterday’s shooting was Officer Matthew Keena, a 3 ½-year veteran of the department.

Officers initiated a traffic stop, but the suspect refused to pull over. Officers pursued the vehicle, which eventually crashed while attempting to make an eastbound turn onto East 8th Street from North Campbell Avenue. The suspect exited the vehicle and ran to the front yard of a nearby residence. As the first officer turned onto 8th Street from Campbell, the suspect began firing at the officer with a shotgun. The officer returned fire and struck the suspect. The suspect then got into the officer’s marked patrol vehicle and attempted to flee. As he began to drive, he was met by two additional officers responding to the scene. Those officers struck the patrol vehicle, pinning it in place so that the suspect was unable to move. Officers approached the vehicle and took the suspect into custody.

The suspect had obvious gunshot wounds that were immediately treated by SWAT medics and officers, using their Individual First-Aid Kits (IFAK). Tucson Fire responded and transported the suspect to Banner University Medical Center where he was pronounced deceased shortly after arrival. Thankfully, no additional citizens or officers were injured during the suspect’s crime spree.

Detectives from the Violent Crimes Section and the Office of Professional Standards responded to the scene continue

the investigation. The Violent Crimes Section is conducting a criminal investigation into the incident. Additionally, the Office of Professional Standards is conducting a separate and parallel administrative investigation to examine the actions of department personnel in response to this incident. This is standard protocol in all officer involved shootings.

The suspect has been identified as 31-year-old Jesus Isaac Rael. Next of kin has been notified. A recent booking photo of Rael is attached below. Rael had an extensive history involving violent crime and was affiliated with both prison and street gangs.

Additional details will be released as they become available. Anyone with information about this incident is urged to call 88-CRIME.