Rosalie Murphy

The Desert Sun

The man who was shot and killed by a Riverside County sheriff's deputy in La Quinta last month was identified Friday, more than two weeks after he died, as Jeffrey Smith, 47, of Riverside.

Officers chased Smith from Jurupa Valley to La Quinta on July 28 because he was suspected in a carjacking. After more than three hours of pursuit and attempted arrest, a sheriff's deputy shot and killed Smith near Jefferson Street and Avenue 52.

Two carjacking victims said they saw Smith with a gun around 3:50 p.m. that day, but the sheriff's department has not said whether Smith was armed at the time of the shooting.

According to the sheriff's department, the pursuit began when Jurupa Valley Police Department officers responded to a reported carjacking. Two women told officers that a man, described as black and armed with a handgun, threatened to shoot them, then drove away in their car.

Police arrived before the suspect, who they later identified as Smith, had left the scene and tried to use a pepper ball launcher to stop him, but Smith began to flee, the sheriff's department said. The chase passed through San Bernardino County and then onto Interstate 10, eventually passing through Palm Desert and into La Quinta. Speeds during the chase reached 85 miles per hour, public information officer Mike Vasquez told The Desert Sun the night of the shooting.

Deputies used a spike strip to deflate the car's tires, but Smith kept driving, the sheriff's department said. When he stopped on Jefferson Street south of Avenue 52, a SWAT team began ordering him to leave the car and surrender. He got out of the car around 7 p.m. but, according to law enforcement, "refused to comply with orders to surrender."

Deputies used a bean bag shotgun and a K-9 unit to try to apprehend Smith, but the sheriff's department said he still resisted arrest. An officer then shot Smith.

Paramedics pronounced Smith dead at the scene.

READ MORE: Suspected carjacker fatally shot in La Quinta

The officer who shot Smith has been placed on administrative leave, and his or her name has not been released. Investigators from the Riverside County Sheriff's Department's Central Homicide Unit are investigating and ask anyone with information to contact Central Homicide Investigator Alfaro at (760) 393-3528 or Investigator Burgie at (760) 863-8990.