Amanda Bivens Killed.jpg

Amanda Bivens, 40, was shot and killed Friday, July 29, 2016, when she pointed a gun at three Homewood police officers.

( )

Authorities have now released the name of a suspected robber shot and killed by Homewood police on Friday afternoon.

Homewood police identified the woman as 40-year-old Amanda Bivens from Chattanooga. Police say her accomplice is in custody, but they have not yet released his name.

Bivens is the mother of two daughters and a son and has a string of drug arrests in Tennessee and Georgia. Friends say she has long battled addiction.

"She had a rough past and started to work through it,'' said John Lecroy, who described Bivens as his sweet, dear friend. "She was a drug court graduate, who ended up letting life take its toll on her and ended up relapsing."

John Lecroy remembers better times with Amanda Bivens.

"She had a lot of pain in her life, but one thing for sure, she did everything for her kids no matter if she was using or not,'' Lecroy told AL.com. "She helped her children even if she had to do without. She was a remarkable woman and I am so blessed that I had the years with her, good and bad."

The incident began about 2:15 p.m. Friday outside the Marathon station near the intersection of West Valley Avenue and Vulcan Road. Homewood police say Bivens was inside the Marco Xpress package store when officers received an anonymous tip that the robbery suspect was there. Initially police said the suspect was on the phone, bragging about a robbery, but later backed off on that account.

When Homewood police arrived on the scene, Bivens was outside the store, said Homewood police spokesman Sgt. Keith Peterson. Police approached her, and the woman brandished her gun and three officers opened fire. Roughly a dozen bullets were fired by officers. Peterson said Friday investigators have not yet determined whether the woman got off any shots.

The suspect collapsed in a grassy area between the Marathon gas station and Business Telephone Systems, Inc., where at least one bullet pierced a window.

The woman was pronounced dead on the scene. There were no other injuries.

Police say Bivens and the unidentified accomplice were involved in at least three other robberies in the last week, including one earlier in the day at nearby Boost Mobile. Rosa Jurado, 20, was working at the wireless service store on Green Springs Highway when a woman came in the store and initially asked about cell phone. She briefly left the store, telling Jurado she was getting something out of her car and, when she returned, pulled a handgun and demanded money from the register.

Jurado told AL.com she lied to the robber, and told her there was a police officer outside. Jurado said the woman then sort of panicked, and left the store empty-handed. Several hours later, Jurado's boss called to tell her the robber was dead.

"It's weird, I don't even know how to feel,'' Jurado said Friday. "I feel lucky that she just walked out of here."

Peterson said another robbery was at Sally's Beauty Supply. He said Bivens and her accomplice had gone on a "crime spree through Homewood" and were "dangerous criminals."

The accomplice was taken into custody on Green Springs immediately after the shooting, police said. He was in a vehicle that matched the description given in the previous holdups. Authorities said surveillance video from the previous robberies confirmed the woman was the same killed Friday.

In 2014, Bivens was among six people arrested by the Catoosa County Sheriff's Office in Georgia when deputies found a house full of drugs while investigating a vehicle theft, according to the Northwest Georgia News. Bivens was charged with possession of ephedrine, possession of Xanax, possession of methamphetamine, possession of marijuana, possession of tools for the commission of a crime, possession of a sawed-off shotgun, and theft by receiving stolen property. At the time of her Georgia arrest, Bivens was on probation out of Tennessee.

Bivens was arrested in 2013 in Chattanooga and charged with manufacturing methamphetamine and possession of drug paraphernalia, according to the Chatanoogan.com.

This is Homewood's first officer-involved shooting this year. A man was shot and killed by Homewood police as they executed a drug search warrant at a Birmingham motel in 2015.

It's the fifth officer-involved shooting in Jefferson County this year, but there were no injuries in one of those - when gunfire outside of Huffman High School earlier this year.

The other three police-involved shootings prior to today all happened in June and happened in Birmingham, though none of them involved Birmingham police officers.

On June 10, Irondale police fatally shot a car burglary suspect who led them on a chase into the Avondale area and then pulled a weapon on officers.

On June 22, Shelby County sheriff's deputies fatally shot a young man after he led them on a two-county chase in a stolen car and then tried to run over a deputy.

On June 30, a Jefferson County sheriff's deputy and two suspects were wounded in a shootout during a drug search warrant. Both of the suspects in that case survived their injuries.

This story will be updated as more information on Bivens and her accomplice become available.