UPDATE 9/22/16 @ 3:35 p.m.

PIKEVILLE, Ky. (WYMT) -- A Pike County grand jury has decided not to indict a trooper involved in a July deadly shooting.

Trooper Jonathan Rouse shot and killed John A. Casey on July 31, 2016.

Rouse and another trooper responded to a complaint on Phillips Branch Road, where they found Casey and Lacy Wolford.

From the grand jury report, we learned Trooper Rouse told Casey he was under arrest for an outstanding warrant. Wolford then ran off and the two troopers took off after him. He was later arrested.

When Trooper Rouse returned, he learned Casey had also run off into the woods. Casey would later walk out of the woods in an area above the trooper, taunted him and threw rocks at Trooper Rouse.

According to the report, when Casey reached into his pocket to pull something silver out, Trooper Rouse feared it was a weapon, drew his weapon and shot Casey. They later learned the silver object was actually a can of beer.

The grand jury heard testimony that Casey had a blood alcohol level of .100 and Gabapentin, which he did not have a prescription for.

The grand jury found Trooper Rouse used justifiable force. The grand jury report indicates they believe if Casey would have submitted to the arrest, "there is no doubt he would be alive today".

UPDATE 8/1/16 @ 9:30 a.m.

PHELPS, Ky. (WSAZ) – New information is released on a fatal shooting involving a state trooper in Pike County on Sunday.

Kentucky State Police say John Casey, 32, of Phelps, was shot and killed after Casey fled from troopers and hit one of the troopers in the face with a rock.

KSP says the incident began after troopers went to a home on Phillips Branch Road in Phelps to check out an assault complaint. When troopers arrived, they discovered Casey and Lacy Wolford, 40 of Phelps, had active arrest warrants. Both men took off on foot.

Once located, KSP says Casey confronted one of the troopers and made threats towards him.

They say Casey then picked up a rock and hit the trooper in the face.

Casey then reached to pull a silver object of his pocket, that’s when the trooper fired his weapon in response to Casey’s actions.

Casey was pronounced dead at the scene. His body was sent to the State Medical Examiner’s Office for an autopsy.

KSP says the silver object Casey was attempting to retrieve from his pocket was a beer can.

This incident remains under investigation by Kentucky State Police.

Lacy Wolford was later located and arrested. Wolford was charged with Alcohol Intoxication in a Public Place, Fleeing or Evading Police on Foot and Possession of Concealed Deadly Weapon

Wolford is being held in the Pike County Detention Center.

The name of the trooper involved in the shooting has not been released.

UPDATE 8/1/2016 @ 7:30 a.m.

PHELPS, Ky. (WYMT) - A man is dead after an officer-involved shooting in Kentucky.

Kentucky State Police are saying the situation escalated after a man assaulted an officer on Sunday.

WYMT reports that John Casey, 32, was shot by a state trooper and pronounced dead at the scene on Philips Branch Road in the Phelps community.

KSP said Casey assaulted a trooper, forcing the trooper to reach for his gun and fire at the man once.

The man's family said Casey had served some time on robbery charges but was trying to turn his life around.

Family members also said there was no altercation between Casey and a trooper.

"He just got shot. There wasn't no reason for it. He didn't have any gun or anything. He didn't have any weapons on him," Laura Casey, the man's sister, said.

Although family members said there wasn't an altercation, police disagree.

KSP told WYMT there was no other way for the trooper to conduct himself.

"We try all different tactics to avoid this, however in this particular case, there was just no other option," Kentucky State Trooper S. Mounts said.

Casey's body has been sent to Frankfort for an autopsy.

KSP still haven't released the name of the officer involved.

ORIGINAL STORY 7/31/16

PHELPS, Ky. (WYMT) - One man is dead after an officer-involved shooting.

Kentucky State Police said it happened on Sunday morning in the Phelps community. Post 9 troopers said one man suffered a fatal gunshot wound.

The Pike County Coroner said the victim's name was John Casey, 32.

WYMT has a reporter on their way to the scene. We'll have more details as they are released.