KITSAP COUNTY PURSUIT: Victim died of multiple gunshot wounds

Sun | Local

* The chase, which began near Poulsbo, was ended by four sheriff's deputies in South Kitsap.

A man shot Monday by sheriff's deputies died of multiple wounds to his head, chest, arms and legs, said Louise Hall with the Kitsap County Coroner's Office.

Kitsap County sheriff's deputies shot and killed John Edward Buckendorf, 35, after a pursuit from Poulsbo to South Kitsap. Buckendorf - who lived in Quilcene and South Kitsap - was driving a reportedly stolen maroon Chevy pickup. He was dead when paramedics arrived at Lake Flora Road.

"I was shocked when his mom called me this (Tuesday) morning," said Buckendorf's father-in-law, Ron Guecho of California. "He was not only my son-in-law, he was one of my best friends, too."

The chase, started by Washington State Patrol troopers, was ended by four sheriff's deputies at 4:51 p.m.

The sheriff's office has refused to name or further identify the deputies involved yet because "these are always difficult circumstances and out of respect for them and their families so they can sit down and discuss this and let things settle," said Sheriff Steve Boyer. He said not naming the deputies was standard procedure, although deputies have been named in previous incidents.

The sheriff's office would not comment on how many times Buckendorf was shot, whether he fired first, if he shot at deputies or whether drugs or alcohol were involved.

"It's an ongoing investigation, and we can't release information that's pertinent to the investigation until it's concluded," said Deputy Scott Wilson, a spokesman for the sheriff's office.

Part of what has been released is that Buckendorf was driving his former employer's truck - which was reported stolen that same day - and that the guns found in the truck also were stolen from his former employer in Quilcene.

At 4:24 p.m. drivers called 911 to say Buckendorf was driving erratically on Highway 3 near Poulsbo, said Trooper Glen Tyrrell, a spokesman with the State Patrol. Troopers tried to pull him over near Anderson Hill Road and chased him until 4:36 p.m., when troopers ended the chase after Buckendorf started dangerously driving on the shoulder and weaving through backed up traffic.

One of the four sheriff's deputies involved in the shooting spotted Buckendorf at 4:44 p.m. on Old Belfair Valley Road and chased him, soon joined by three other deputies to Lake Flora Road, where the pursuit fatally ended.

"I'm going to miss him terribly," Guecho said. "I just pray that God forgives him."

Guecho described Buckendorf as an essentially good man who got into trouble once he became involved in the drug scene.

"He was a good person without the drugs," Guecho said.

"He was just excellent. ... I don't understand why he would jeopardize himself." Guecho said he wasn't sure what kind of drugs Buckendorf was involved in.

Buckendorf had a drug problem before he moved to California, near Lemoore Naval Air Station south of Fresno, and married Guecho's daughter, Guecho said.

But while in California, Buckendorf "gave his life to Christ" and worked hard building homes on the base, Guecho said.

But when he moved back to Washington with his wife, they once again became involved with drugs and eventually lost their three children because of it, Guecho said.

Buckendorf has a lengthy rap sheet including a conviction for drug possession in 1985, attempting to elude police in 1997 and at the time of his death had a warrant for his arrest for fourth-degree domestic violence, Wilson said.

Buckendorf's wife eventually moved back to California near her father and Buckendorf kept in contact with her family, although they hadn't heard from him in a few months, Guecho said.

"I always prayed that he would finally snap out of it and get away from all that," Guecho said.

Reach reporter Angela D. Smith at (360) 415-2673 or at asmith@thesunlink.com.