DETROIT – A suspected bank robber armed with a large knife was shot and killed by police Wednesday morning at a motel on Telegraph Road in Detroit.

A West Bloomfield police officer and a Michigan Department of Corrections (MDOC) agent both fired shots, police said.

The shooting happened at the Victory Inn and Suites. Police said the armed robbery suspect was under surveillance when shots were fired.

#Breaking: West Bloomfield officer, MDOC officer, shoot, kill 54 year old bank robbery suspect armed with knife. pic.twitter.com/m9Pf8QPL8a — Shawn Ley (@ShawnLeyLive) August 3, 2016

The 54-year-old bank robbery suspect was killed in the shooting. The bank robbery occurred in Farmington Hills earlier on Tuesday, police said.

READ: Police investigating bank robbery in Farmington Hills

In addition to be being wanted for a bank robbery, the man also was wanted for a parole violation warrant, police said.

#Breaking: #Detroit Police say this is the bank robber shot & killed during a task force operation this morning.https://t.co/Cn3Kp6FIA3 — Shawn Ley (@ShawnLeyLive) August 3, 2016

The suspect was identified as Bradley Carey. His parole violation was from a bank robbery 10 years ago.

“A multi-agency task force in Oakland County tracked that individual to this area,” Detroit Deputy Chief David Levalley said. “Members of the task force identified the room that he was in.”

Levalley said the suspect would not respond and when officers opened the door they found him armed with a large butcher knife. He was shot and was taken to the hospital where he pronounced dead.

"They tried to get him to exit the room by knocking on the door," said Levalley. "They eventually entered the room and when they entered he was armed with a pretty large butcher knife. There were two shots fired. One shot was fired by a sargent from West Bloomfield Township and an MDOC agent.”

The shooting is under investigation by Detroit police and Michigan State Police.

Stay with Local 4 and ClickonDetroit.com for updates to this developing story.