SANTEE (CBS 8) - A man was killed after a SWAT standoff with San Diego County Sheriff's deputies in Santee, the San Diego County Sheriff's Department said Saturday.



The unidentified man was found dead after he reportedly fired arrows from a bow at deputies Friday afternoon from inside a home in the 9900 block of Woodglen Vista Drive.



The Medical Examiner's Office will conduct an autopsy to determine the cause and manner of death, deputies said. The man's identity is being withheld pending his positive identification and family notification.



In accordance with sheriff's procedure and practice, the names of the deputies involved will be released after three business days, the SDCSD said.



The incident began at 1:57 p.m. at the Woodglen Vista Drive where deputies from the Santee Station responded to a family disturbance where the man reportedly threatened to kill his mother and was possibly in possession of weapons including an axe and a knife.



It also was reported to deputies that the man possibly had an undiagnosed mental condition.



Deputies attempted to make contact with the man and asked him to come outside and deputies said he responded by peeking around a corner and firing an arrow from a bow at deputies, striking a doorway nearby.



After several unsuccessful attempts to call the man out of his home, deputies said a team was put together to take the man into custody. As they did this, the man reportedly appeared at an upstairs window and fired additional arrows at the deputies in front of the home.



Deputies said they returned fire, possibly striking the man who stopped firing from the window.



Deputies from the Sheriff's Special Enforcement Detail responded and attempted to contact the man. Eventually, they used sound and light devices as well as electronic surveillance cameras and determined someone was lying on the floor in the upstairs bedroom.



After receiving no response, deputies entered the residence and found the man in the upstairs bedroom, deputies said. Medics pronounced him man deceased at 5:37 p.m.



Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call the San Diego Sheriff's Department's Homicide Detail at (858) 974-2321 or after hours at (858) 565-5200.