Alonzo Small

The News Journal

One woman is dead and a man is in serious condition following a police chase in a stolen vehicle that ended in a multiple-vehicle crash, Rehoboth Beach police said.

Police responded to a Royal Farms, located at 400 block of Rehoboth Avenue on Saturday morning, for a vehicle theft involving an 80-year-old male, according to a release issued by the Rehoboth Beach Police Department.

The victim said he came in contact with two people, police later identified as John W. Poore, 34, of Elkton, Maryland and Ashley K. Ford, 25, of Perryville, Maryland, at the Wawa on Veterans Way, said Lt. Jaime Riddle, a spokesman with the Rehoboth Beach Police Department.

The pair needed a ride to meet a friend at the Royal Farms, police said.

STORY: Bridgeville man jailed after police chase with kids in car

RELATED: DelawareOnline.com's crime page

The man told police that when they arrived at the Royal Farms, Poore exited the vehicle and Ford asked if she could drive.

The man became suspicious and attempted to take the keys from the ignition and exit the car, Riddle said.

A struggle between the victim and Ford occurred before Poore jumped into the driver's seat, Riddle said,

On Monday, Ford and Poore were located operating the stolen vehicle, a charcoal 2002 Chevrolet Suburban, on I-95 northbound by Maryland Transportation Authority Police.

When officers attempted to stop the vehicle a police chase ensued that ended when the Suburban struck two other vehicles at the intersection of Route 40 and Whitehall Road in Elkton, Maryland.

As a result of the crash, Ford was flown from the scene to Christiana Hospital where she was later pronounced dead.

Poore was flown to Maryland Shock Trauma where he remains in serious condition.

An occupant of one of the other vehicles involved in the crash remains in stable condition after serious but non-life threatening injuries.

Contact Alonzo Small at (302) 324-2856 or asmall@delawareonline.com. Follow him on Twitter @P_AlonzoSmall.