A man is dead following an exchange of gunfire with law enforcement officials Monday night, Wilkes County deputies said.James Eugene Burgess, 64, died at the scene of the incident just after 9 p.m. on Congo Road off Hamby Mountain Road. He had what appeared to be at least one gunshot wound to the chest, deputies said.Two Wilkes County detectives and a deputy sergeant went to the home on a shots fired call and ordered Burgess to show his hands, deputies said. Burgess then began firing at the law enforcement officials, two of which returned fire, according to a statement from the Wilkes County Sheriff's Office.After a tactical vehicle was brought in and the area was lit up, Burgess was found lying on the ground near the home, deputies said.The shooting law enforcement officials were identified as Sgt. V. E. Byrd and Detective R. J. Adams. Deputies said they don't yet know which officer fired the shot that killed Burgess.Detective J. B. Gryder also was at the scene at the time of the shooting, deputies said.Burgess is the father of a Wilkes County deputy, but the Sheriff's Office said in a statement that Burgess' son wasn't involved in the incident.

A man is dead following an exchange of gunfire with law enforcement officials Monday night, Wilkes County deputies said.

James Eugene Burgess, 64, died at the scene of the incident just after 9 p.m. on Congo Road off Hamby Mountain Road. He had what appeared to be at least one gunshot wound to the chest, deputies said.

Advertisement

Two Wilkes County detectives and a deputy sergeant went to the home on a shots fired call and ordered Burgess to show his hands, deputies said. Burgess then began firing at the law enforcement officials, two of which returned fire, according to a statement from the Wilkes County Sheriff's Office.

After a tactical vehicle was brought in and the area was lit up, Burgess was found lying on the ground near the home, deputies said.

The shooting law enforcement officials were identified as Sgt. V. E. Byrd and Detective R. J. Adams. Deputies said they don't yet know which officer fired the shot that killed Burgess.

Detective J. B. Gryder also was at the scene at the time of the shooting, deputies said.

Burgess is the father of a Wilkes County deputy, but the Sheriff's Office said in a statement that Burgess' son wasn't involved in the incident.