Archived Story

Thursday, July 4, 2002

Family decries deputies’ actions

Officials defend shooting death of suicidal man in Hesperia

By SCOTT VANHORNE/Staff Writer







HESPERIA — Deputies promised they were just going to stun an armed man with a non-lethal weapon before they killed him in a volley of gunfire and left him dead in a pool of blood for more than 12 hours, family members said.







“My mom was right in front of him,” Angel Mendez said. “She didn’t want to leave his side because she knew they were going to shoot him.”







Ignacio Mendez, 24, became upset Tuesday night and threatened to kill himself, prompting his brother to call 911.







“Lately, he’s been seeing things that aren’t there,” Angel Mendez said. “He’s deaf and sometimes he feels left out.”







By the time San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputies arrived about 9 p.m., Ignacio Mendez had armed himself with what one deputy described as an AK-47 and was outside his home on Pine Street with his mother, Evangelina.







“I was trying to calm him down, but he didn’t want to,” Angel Mendez said.







Evangelina Mendez stayed by her son in front of an unoccupied home next to her residence as deputies armed themselves and took cover behind their patrol cars.







They continually ordered the man to drop his weapon, but because of his disability, Ignacio Mendez never heard a word.







“The deputies had contact with the subject for two hours,” sheriff’s spokesman Chip Patterson said. “You would think in that time that gestures and other kinds of physical motions might be used to get him to understand what they wanted him to do. I can’t understand why someone wouldn’t comply with an officer who had a gun drawn.”







Angel Mendez said deputies promised him they were going to stun his brother with a shotgun-propelled beanbag, so he begged his mother to leave his sibling’s side.







When the suicidal man’s mother reluctantly moved away, a deputy fired one shot, knocking Ignacio Mendez backward and causing him to fire a shot into the ground, his brother said.







“You heard about 20 more shots go off,” he said. “It doesn’t take that many bullets for someone to go down. Why did they keep shooting?”







Sheriff’s officials released a different version of the events.







According to a press release, Ignacio Mendez fired at the ground near his mother’s feet and then pointed the gun at deputies before they fired, striking him several times in the upper body.







Paramedics pronounced Ignacio Mendez dead at the scene.







Patterson said he could not confirm or deny whether deputies used a beanbag on the man.







“Lethal force is certainly the last thing that our deputies want to use,” he said. “That option is only used when it’s evident that either someone else or an officer is about to be injured or worse.”







Afterward, deputies arrested Ignacio Mendez’s brother, Jose, for resisting arrest after he reportedly refused to comply with their demands to stay out of the crime scene.







But Jose Ignacio, who claimed the arresting deputies roughed him up, said he just wanted them to cover his brother’s body.







“They left him lying there like a dog,” he said.







The body wasn’t picked up and moved until about noon Wednesday, family members said.







Patterson said deputies were just following procedures.







“Even the act of covering a body could potentially destroy important evidence such as gunpowder residue, fibers or hair,” he said.







The man’s family and a neighbor also said deputies were laughing and joking around after the shooting.







“They were out their laughing and antagonizing them,” neighbor Laura Gleason said.







Lt. Greg Foster said he was confident that if deputies were laughing, it was not about the man’s death.







“We certainly wouldn’t hold that as acceptable,” he said.







Sheriff’s homicide detectives are investigating the shooting, and the names of deputies involved are being withheld pending the outcome of the probe.















Scott Vanhorne can be reached at Scott_Vanhorne@link.freedom.com







or at 951-6276.

Return to Desert Dispatch