Advertisement Man armed with BB gun is shot by deputies, suspect's mother says Jeffrey Allen Morris, 44, fatally shot during standoff Share Copy Link Copy

The mother of a 44-year-old man who was fatally shot after he barricaded himself in an Upstate home talked to WYFF News 4's Mandy Gaither the day after his death.Anderson County Deputy Coroner Don McCown told WYFF News 4 late Tuesday afternoon that Jeffrey "Allen" Morris died after being hit by more than one gunshot. Morris' autopsy has been scheduled for Thursday.The standoff began when Anderson County deputies attempted to serve a probation violation warrant at a home Tuesday afternoon on Mountain Springs Road, according to Anderson County Sheriff John Skipper.To read more about Morris' arrest record and the warrant, click hereSkipper said that Morris "presented a weapon at the officer" and barricaded himself in the home.Allen Morris' mother, Linda Morris, told Mandy Gaither that her son was armed with a long BB gun when he was shot."He ran into the back room and got a BB gun that looks like a rifle, but it wasn't, and came running back in there. I had just come home," Linda Morris said. "The deputy was holding a pistol on him because he thought it was a real gun and I said, 'It's not a real gun. We don't have a gun in our home. It's a BB gun."Linda Morris said officers made her go outside during the standoff."The next thing I knew, I heard five gunfire shots and I just went berserk because I knew -- I just started screaming and then it seemed like an eternity, it was probably 15 to 20 minutes, they came across the yard with his body on a stretcher and they wouldn't let me go to him," Linda Morris said. Linda Morris said her son didn't report to his probation violation and that's why a warrant was issued."He knew he had broken his probation and he knew if he went he was going to jail and Allen did not want to go back to jail, so I don't know what happened. I think he snapped. I honestly believe it wasn't my Allen thinking," Linda Morris said.Skipper said that SWAT officers were at the home just after 4 p.m.Skipper told WYFF News 4 that just after 5 p.m., deputies went into the house and when Allen Morris raised a gun at them, deputies fired, hitting him. Morris' mother said her son was on probation after another standoff with Anderson County deputies in March 2015. (More on previous standoff)The State Law Enforcement Division will investigate the shooting, which is normal procedure when an officer fires a weapon.