Garrett Mitchell

The Republic | azcentral.com

Phoenix police are investigating the fatal police shooting of a murder suspect early Saturday following a Friday night homicide.

Officer James Holmes, a Phoenix police spokesman, said officers responded to a call in the 4600 block of North 75th Drive just after 8:30 p.m. Friday. Martin Lopez Meza, 48, had been shot and he later died at a hospital, Holmes said.

A witness told police she had heard an argument followed by multiple gunshots and then saw a dark gray SUV leave the area, Holmes said. Information from the witness and from Meza's family members led police to believe Ruben Horacio Strand, 38, was involved, Holmes said. Information obtained at the scene also indicated Strand and Meza knew each other.

Police went to Strand's home at an apartment complex at 43rd Avenue and Indian School Road, saw the reported vehicle at the location and got a search warrant.

Five officers entered Strand's apartment just after 4 a.m. and made their way to a bedroom where the door was closed. When an officer entered, Strand confronted him with a knife, Holmes said. Strand cut the officer on the hand.

"At that point, in defense, the officer drew a service weapon and he shot the suspect," Holmes said.

Strand was pronounced dead at the scene. The unnamed detective was identified as a 35-year-old who has been with the Phoenix police for 14 years. He was taken to the hospital to get stitches in his hand and then returned to the scene to assist in the investigation. The officer will be placed on administrative leave, as is standard procedure, Holmes said.

"It can take a toll on the officers, anytime they're involved in something like this — not only the officer who fired his weapon but his partners that were with him, that were behind him," Holmes said. "There's a lot of psychological processes that they're going to have to do also. We always make sure they're OK ... and we're gonna make sure he's OK to go back out on the street."

Holmes said police would remain at the complex for several hours as they investigate. The cause of the reported argument and subsequent shooting of Meza has not been determined, police said.