Morgan Gstalter

mgstalter@dmreg.com

Des Moines police have identified the driver fleeing from police who crashed into another vehicle, fatally injuring that driver early Sunday.

A Des Moines Police Department patrol officer pulled over a vehicle without license plates at 12:52 a.m. in the 3300 block of Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway, police said in a news release. The suspect, identified as Darnell Browder, 34, of Des Moines pulled into a Hy-Vee parking lot but then raced off, according to the release. The pursuit reportedly lasted about a minute.

Browder allegedly sped west on Euclid and Douglas avenues before turning north on Lower Beaver Road, police said. On Lower Beaver, police said, Browder crossed into southbound lanes and crashed into a vehicle going south.

The driver of the southbound vehicle, Jason Hunt, 41, of Des Moines was killed. His passenger, Angela Denning, 40, was injured and taken to a hospital.

Browder and his passenger, Davion Barbar, 18, were injured and taken to a hospital, the news release said.

No update has been available on any of their conditions.

In the release, police said Browder is a felon who is prohibited from possessing firearms. They also said they found a firearm in the vehicle after the crash.

Browder was convicted of a felony controlled substance violation in February 2011 and was sentenced to 15 years in prison, according to court records. He was released in April 2014.

He also has had a series of convictions for various driving offenses dating back to 1995, including: four convictions for failure of having a valid license/permit while operating a motor vehicle, four convictions for driving while license is denied/suspended/canceled or revoked and two convictions for driving while barred–habitual offender.

The news release said that police believe excessive speed was a contributing factor in the crash. The Des Moines Police Department Traffic Unit is conducting the technical investigation. At this time, no charges have been filed.

RELATED: Police chase deaths decline | Database of deaths in Iowa

Deaths during police pursuits have declined in Iowa, and authorities credit in part policies that give officers more leeway to disengage in certain circumstances.

A Des Moines police policy updated in 2013 says pursuits are "justified" if the officer believes that a suspect's actions outweigh the risk to the public. It also says officers should refrain from giving chase if they know the suspect's identity, or even their license plate information, and there's no immediate threat to the public.

Police spokesman Sgt. Paul Parizek, during a July 2015 interview with the Register for a story about deaths from police pursuits, said that "if the suspect is known and the probability of apprehending him later is high without him harming anybody in between, that would be our preference (to let him go). … And that's happened many times."

According to federal data, most of those killed during police pursuits are driving or riding in the fleeing vehicle. The most recent recorded case of a bystander's death in central Iowa was in December 2005, when a Perry man drove away from a traffic stop and, about two miles later, crashed into a 15-year-old girl's car, killing her.

Check back to DesMoinesRegister.com for more updates.