ASHTABULA COUNTY, OH (WOIO) - Michael S. Martin, the Ashtabula County man killed on Tuesday after a police chase, was shot three times, the autopsy found.

According to the coroner, Martin was shot twice in the right leg and once in the torso, which was the fatal wound.

The chase began after the Ashtabula County Sheriff office received a complaint at about 3 a.m. Tuesday from a woman that her 17-year-old sister, Alexis Hebrock, had been held against her will and threatened at gunpoint by a man she identified as Martin, 36, of Rome Township.

Martin reportedly stole Hebrock's purse, cell phone, wallet and cash during the incident at 2011 State Road in Rock Creek. Martin was reported to authorities as driving a Chevrolet Trailblazer with Ohio license plate FJX-4540 and a BOLO was sent out to all law enforcement agencies in northeast Ohio to be on the lookout for Martin, who was believed to be armed and dangerous.

Martin was known to law enforcement and has a lengthy criminal history for drugs. He was also wanted on several warrants.

Later that morning at around 7:35 a.m., an Ashtabula County Sheriff Deputy on his way home checked the house of his former girlfriend at 1334 Dodgeville Road in New Lyme Township. She is also the mother of his child.

The deputy called for additional units to respond to the residence. When they arrived, they confronted Martin, as well as a passenger identified as Nicole Hochman, 25, who was seated in the Trailblazer parked behind the residence.

Deputies approached the vehicle and confronted Martin and ordered him to exit the vehicle. Martin failed to comply and brandished a 9mm firearm. Deputies, fearing for their safety, discharged their service weapons at Martin who then fled in the vehicle through several back yards before crashing into a utility pole near New Lyme Baptist Church. The autopsy showed that he was dead before he struck the utility pole and suffered no trauma to the head or neck due to the crash.

South Central Ambulance responded to the scene and pronounced Martin dead. Passenger Nicole Hochman was uninjured and taken into custody for questioning.

"The cops were definitely in the right in what they had to do yesterday," a neighbor said. "They had to protect themselves and they did a great job."

The Ohio Attorney General's Office Bureau of Criminal Investigations was called in to conduct an independent investigation into the deputy-involved shooting.

Four Ashtabula County Sheriff Deputies are on paid leave pending the investigation. It's unknown whether all three shots were fired from the same weapon.

The investigation is ongoing at this time and is in the hands of the BCI.

Follow Cleveland 19 News:

Download the Cleveland 19 News app.

Copyright 2016 WOIO. All rights reserved.