FARGO – Before a standoff at the Southeast Human Service Center ended with the apparent suicide of an armed man on Thursday, Aug. 18, a few Fargo police officers pulled off a tense rescue of a center employee who had been trapped in an office with the man for over 2 ½ hours.

Chief David Todd held a news conference Friday, Aug. 19, to share details of the incident that drew a response from the local SWAT team.

The armed man, Jon Nathan Casper, showed up at the center about 4 p.m., went into the employee’s office and shut the door. “He told the employee that he had a gun and made several comments about taking his own life or forcing police officers to take his life,” Todd said.

Casper, a 49-year-old Fargo resident, and the employee, a woman police did not identify, remained in her office from about 4 p.m. until 6:45 p.m. Meanwhile, other center employees were unaware that she was stuck in her office with Casper, the chief said.

When the woman didn’t come home for dinner, her husband texted her and asked if everything was OK. “After some time, she was able to text back that, ‘No, everything was not OK,’ ” Todd said.

ADVERTISEMENT

The chief said the woman later told police “she was too frightened to try to leave” given that Casper had a gun.

It was unclear why Casper came to the state-run center, which offers mental health services and substance abuse treatment. The chief said police did not know whether Casper was a client of the center or whether he knew the woman.

About 6:45 p.m., the woman’s husband called police and met them at the center at 2624 9th Ave. S. where he pointed out his wife’s office on the second floor.

When officers knocked on the office door, Casper grabbed the doorknob to keep them from entering, and he put his handgun to his head.

“The female employee said she was terrified because she was not sure if this is going to be where he shot her, himself or both of them,” Todd said.

Officers Brad Cernik and Aldin Golos managed to open the door and enter the office, not knowing what they would encounter.

“They saw the man with the gun, drew their own weapons and covered Jon Casper who had his firearm in his hand pointed at his head,” the chief said.

The officers ordered Casper to drop the gun, and Cernik motioned for the woman to move toward him. Cernik grabbed her, shoved her out of the office and handed her off to Officer Taylor Savageau who escorted her out of the building.

ADVERTISEMENT

“Casper did not point his gun at the officers or at the employee during this time. And the officers decided to withdraw from the office,” Todd said.

The chief commended the bravery of Golos, Savageau and Cernik, who all started as officers last year. “Fairly young officers, but I thought they did a fantastic job in getting the victim out of that situation and trying to de-escalate,” he said.

After the officers retreated, Casper was left alone in the office, and the building was evacuated. From about 7 p.m. to shortly before 9 p.m., SWAT team negotiators tried to convince Casper to come outside, but he refused.

“At 8:51 p.m., a single gunshot was heard originating from the second floor and exiting the building. Officers on the outside of the building heard that bullet pass overhead,” Todd said.

At 10:01 p.m., police entered the office, and Casper was dead. He appeared to have died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, Todd said. “It appears the round traveled out the office window after it struck Casper,” he said.

The chief said no center staff or police officers were hurt and no officers fired their guns. He said an autopsy has been ordered.

“The loss of life in this situation is unfortunate and sad, and we send our condolences out to Jon Casper’s family,” Todd said.

Casper’s name is similar to that of North Dakota Sen. Jonathan Casper, R-Fargo, but they are different people. “Fortunately, I’m alive,” the senator said Friday.

ADVERTISEMENT

Rosalie Etherington, who oversees the state’s regional human service centers, said the Southeast Human Service Center was closed to clients until 1 p.m. Friday. She said Casper was not a center employee.

State Department of Human Services spokeswoman Heather Steffl said privacy laws prevent her from saying whether Casper was a client at the center.

“Our thoughts are with the individual’s family, and our focus today and in the coming days is on providing services and supports to the employees and clients affected by this tragic event,” Etherington said in a statement.

Todd said a police sergeant on Friday spoke with the woman who found herself trapped in her office with an armed, suicidal man.

“She was very shook up by that incident and continues to be,” the chief said.