Brook Park Police.jpg

A 37-year-old Brook Park man was arguing with his live-in girlfriend when he shot another man in the head and turned the gun on himself Saturday evening, police said.

(File photo)

BROOK PARK, Ohio -- A 37-year-old Brook Park man was arguing with his live-in girlfriend when he shot another man in the head and then took his own life Saturday evening, police said.

The man who was shot in the head later died.

The Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner's Office identified the victim as 40-year-old James Nelson, of Cleveland. He died Sunday at MetroHealth Medical Center.

Karl Adkins shot Nelson during an argument outside Adkins' Richard Drive home, police said, touching off a six-hour standoff.

Adkins' 32-year-old live-in-girlfriend had recently taken the couple's two young children and left their home after Adkins had gotten angry, Brook Park Police Chief James Foster said Monday.

Nelson accompanied the girlfriend to the home in the 15000 block of Richard Drive to retrieve some belongings, when an argument began about 7 p.m. Saturday, police said.

Nelson was dating Adkins' girlfriend's sister.

"It's tragedy that he got shot while he was trying to help his girlfriend's sister," Foster said.

Police do not know what the couple argued about or why Adkins was angry. Adkins fired the fatal shot from inside the home, Foster said.

One of the children belonging to Adkins and the girlfriend was in a car parked in front of the house when the shot was fired, police said.

The girlfriend and a neighbor grabbed the child and ran away from the home.

Several neighbors who heard a commotion and gunfire called 911.

Neighbors were evacuated from their homes and the Southwest Law Enforcement Bureau's SWAT team was called to negotiate with Adkins.

Officials said they tried repeatedly to contact Adkins via cellphone, text message and public address system, but he never responded and didn't come out of the house.

After six hours, a robot was sent into the home. The robot showed police outside that Adkins had fatally shot himself.

Brook Park police had never been called to the couple's home and Adkins had no history of domestic violence, Foster said. The girlfriend told police Adkins showed no previous signs of violence.

If you wish to discuss or comment on this story, please visit our crime and courts comments section.

Like Chanda Neely on Facebook.

Follow me on Twitter: