News

Pottawattamie County Sheriff Jeff Danker, today (Wednesday), released additional information about a fatal stand-off that took place Tuesday night, in Oakland. Danker says at around 7:15-p.m., Pottawattamie County Sheriff’s Office Deputies were dispatched to 320 Gates Street in Oakland, with regard to man who was inside the residence with a loaded long gun.The individual was identified as 44-year old Marshall Deshong, of Oakland.

Early reports were that Deshong made comments that he had four bullets, three for responding law enforcement and one for himself. Assistance was requested and Deputies from Shelby and Cass County as well as Officers from the Iowa Department of Transportation and Troopers from the Iowa State Patrol responded to assist. As law enforcement set up a perimeter around the residence and secured the neighborhood contact was made with the man.

Attempts to talk Deshong into exiting the residence and surrendering peacefully, were unsuccessful and communications ultimately deteriorated. Just before 8-p.m., Deputies report hearing a loud “bang,” and hearing glass shattering. A couple of minutes later, a second “bang” was heard and Deputies report seeing what was described as “orange sparks” near the area they were taking cover. A third “muffled” bang was heard, and it was later discovered that one of the Sheriff’s Office Uniform Patrol Vehicles had a hole in the rear bumper cover that is believed to be from a shot fired by Deshong.

Deputies and the other Law Enforcement Officers on scene maintained the perimeter of the scene until the Pottawattamie County Sheriff’s Office Emergency Response Team (ERT) arrived on scene and took over the incident. Efforts to re-establish communications with Deshong were unsuccessful. Ultimately a tactical robot was deployed into the residence by ERT members. Inside the residence Deshong was observed by the tactical robot camera, to be lying on the floor unresponsive.

Entry was made into the residence and at approximately 12:20-a.m. today (Wednesday), Deshong was found with a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound. His body will be transported to the Iowa State Medical Examiner’s Office for an autopsy. The incident remains under investigation.