Carlos Andres López

Las Cruces Sun-News

LAS CRUCES - The two Las Cruces police officers who fatally shot 36-year-old Juan Gabriel Torres last month have been cleared of any wrongdoing.

The 3rd Judicial District Attorney’s Office determined Thursday that Sgt. Michael Henke and Officer Johnathan Boehne were justified in discharging their duty weapons during the Aug. 21 incident that unfolded on the busy Lohman Avenue bridge over Interstate 25.

The Las Cruces Police Department reported District Attorney Mark D’Antonio’s findings in a news release issued Friday.

“After review of this case we have concluded that Officers' Henke and Boehne involved in the shooting of Juan Gabriel Torres on August 21, 2016, were justified under New Mexico law,” D’Antonio wrote in a letter to LCPD. “This office will not be taking any action against the officers, as their actions were justified.”

Torres, a Las Cruces resident, was shot multiple times shortly after 4:30 p.m. Police said he lunged toward an officer and was armed with large hunting knife.

“Officers tried to save Torres’ life immediately after the shooting. He was transported to MountainView Regional Medical Center where he died,” stated Friday’s news release from LCPD.

According to LCPD, the incident began around 3 p.m., when officers were dispatched to the report of a robbery and theft of a pickup at 1323 E. Lohman Ave.

Police said the suspect stole a 2012 white Chevrolet pickup from an 86-year-old man. The man was slightly injured when the suspect pulled the keys from his hands, police said.

Shortly after the auto theft, officers spotted the pickup near Lohman Avenue and Foothills Road.

Officers pursued the pickup and attempted to conduct a traffic stop, but the driver, later identified as Torres, refused to stop, according to LCPD.

Officers ended the pursuit amid public safety concerns because of heavy traffic.

Around 4:30 p.m., officers who were investigating the theft observed the stolen pickup as it drove by the initial crime scene.

Henke, Boehne and Officer Christopher Gamez began to pursue the pickup as it headed east on Lohman Avenue. But the chase was called off at Walton Boulevard because of heavy traffic.

About a minute later, officers caught up with the pickup, which had been abandoned on Lohman Avenue, in the eastbound lanes, directly above I-25.

A shirtless Torres had exited the pickup before officers arrived at the overpass, police said.

After exiting the vehicle, Torres tried to open the door to a blue Chrysler occupied by a man and his 10-year-old son, police said. But he was unable to enter the vehicle because the doors were locked.

Torres walked into the westbound lanes of Lohman Avenue, where he approached another blue vehicle. At that point, officers made contact with Torres, who was armed with a large hunting knife and carrying a beer bottle.

Boehne was wearing a lapel camera that recorded much of the incident.

In the video, officers repeatedly ordered Torres to drop the knife, but he did not comply with their commands. He then lunged toward Boehne, and the officers discharged their weapons.

Torres was struck multiple times.

LCPD said Friday that “audio evidence” from the lapel camera suggests that Gamez “was in the process of transitioning from his duty weapon to a Taser the moment before Torres lunged toward Boehne.”

During a news conference a day after the incident, LCPD Chief Jaime Montoya fielded questions about why officers had not deployed Tasers. “When you're confronted with a deadly force situation, you respond with deadly force,” Montoya said.

The officers were not injured during the incident. Under standard protocol, Boehne and Henke were placed on administrative leave. They have since returned to duty.

Boehne and Henke, who was promoted to sergeant in May 2015, have been with LCPD since 2009. Gamez graduated from LCPD’s academy in February.

Torres’ funeral was held Friday morning and Bishop Emeritus Ricardo Ramirez, of the Las Cruces Catholic Diocese, officiated the funeral Mass at Immaculate Heart of Mary Cathedral.

Torres, who reportedly was diagnosed with schizophrenia and anti-social disorder, had several run-ins with the law over the past decade.

He had most recently appeared before Judge Douglas R. Driggers in 3rd Judicial District Court on Aug. 11 for violating his probation in a 2008 case of kidnapping and aggravated battery against a household member.

Driggers revoked Torres’ probation and sentenced him to one year and 290 days in the state Department of Corrections. But instead of being turned over to corrections officials, Torres posted a $5,000 secured bond, which had been set in June, on Aug. 12, and was released from jail.

Torres, who was originally from Carlsbad, is survived by numerous family members and three children.