WAUKESHA - Police correctly used deadly force in the fatal shooting of William C. Brewster, 64, on June 18, following a 90-minute standoff in the backyard of his home, according to Waukesha County District Attorney Susan Opper.

Brewster was shot a total of three times by officers Chelsea Coenen and Benjamin Stern at about 9:30 p.m. in the 2000 block of Sunkist Ave., according to Opper.

A stray bullet, likely from the shooting, shattered the window of a child's nearby bedroom, prompting the homeowner to question afterward why police had not warned her family of the pending danger.

Michelle Werner, who lives in the 2000 block of Patricia Lane, said her 3-year-old daughter, Charlotte, was asleep in her bedroom when the gunfire began, prompting the mother to check on her daughter. She said she saw the shattered window and a bullet embedded in a closet door across the room.

RELATED:Suicidal man killed in Sunday gunfight with police identified as William C. Brewster

RELATED:Police kill reportedly suicidal 64-year-old gunman at his Waukesha home after 90-minute standoff

RELATED:Mother speaks out after bullet rips through her child's bedroom during fatal Waukesha gunfight

Opper's report addressed only the deadly force issue. It was silent about the stray bullet.

Police were called to the northwest side home shortly after 8 p.m. by Brewster's live-in girlfriend. She reported he was suicidal and armed with a gun.

From an adjacent backyard, police saw Brewster holding a gun to his head and drinking beer.

Police body-camera footage show those officers repeatedly asking Brewster to put his 9mm handgun away. Police told Brewster drinking beer and handling a gun was a bad combination.

In efforts to diffuse the situation, officers engaged Brewster in conversations about family and financial troubles and his personal history.

Talks even centered briefly on preferred brands of beer and getting drunk.

"During these discussions, Mr. Brewster continuously expressed a desire to kill himself," according to Opper's news release. "At times, Mr. Brewster displayed a hostile demeanor toward officers.

"Ultimatley, Mr Brewster disobeyed officers' commands and left the containment of his fenced-in backyard with a fully loaded 9mm pistol. Mr. Brewster approached the officers with the pistol in his hand.

"Officers again ordered Mr. Brewster to stop and drop the weapon, but he disobeyed their commands."

Coenen and Stern fired at Brewster, saying they feared for their safety and for the safety of others, according to the release.

The incident was investigated by the Wisconsin Department of Justice.

"Use of force was objectionably warranted," according to Opper.