SANTA ANA – Authorities have identified the man who led officers on a pursuit, engaged in a gun battle with cops – shooting one whose life was saved by his badge – and died in a fiery crash during the Aug. 26 chase, police said.

Richard Brent Lund, 59, of Huntington Beach died in the fiery, single-car crash that ended a chase spanning three counties, Lt. Mark Stichter, Orange County Sheriff’s Department spokesman, said.

Officers were responding to a domestic disturbance call near Bushard Street and Yorktown Avenue when, investigators said, a man emerged from the home, got into a car and drove away. Two Huntington Beach patrol cars pursued.

The man drove down Yorktown and then abruptly made a U-turn and opened fire, Officer Jennifer Marlatt, a Huntington Beach department spokeswoman, said previously.

One of the bullets struck an officer in the badge.

The man drove on as both officers returned fire – one from the driver’s seat of his moving patrol car, Marlatt had said. The officers turned their cars around and continued the chase.

About 85-or-so miles later, the driver lost control of his car and crashed down an brown, grassy embankment at Cleghorn Road in the Cajon Pass. The vehicle burst into flames, and the driver was killed.

Police said the woman involved in the domestic dispute was OK, but wouldn’t release other details.

Orange County court records show Lund plead guilty to a misdemeanor for driving with a blood alcohol level of .08-percent or more in June 2015 and was sentenced to three years probation.

According to Serenity Funeral Home in Alpine, Utah, funeral services for Lund were held on Friday. His’s obituary indicates that he drove an 18-wheel truck for a time, but spent most of his life working as a machinist in the aerospace industry, eventually machining parts for the Hubble Telescope satellite.

The father of two and grandfather had moved between Idaho, Utah and California during his life, the obituary said. He was living in Huntington Beach with his second wife at the time of his death.

The 10-year Huntington Beach police officer whose badge deflected the bullet was not injured. His name has not been released.

“Adrenaline kicked in, and he didn’t even know he was hit until he pulled over in Costa Mesa,” Marlatt said previously.

Contact the writer: 714-796-7802 or jsudock@ocregister.com