The Denver Police Department officer who fatally shot a man armed with a knife over the weekend was one of two officers cornered in a small attic space and feared for the safety of a woman who was trapped in the attic, a police commander said Monday.

The dead man was identified as Terry Salazar, 49, by the Denver coroner.

Cmdr. Barb Archer, who leads the police department’s major crimes division, said one patrol officer assigned to District 3 fired multiple times at the suspect. A second patrol officer, who also was in the attic, did not fire his gun, Archer said.

The officer who fired the shot, Antony Gutierrez-McKain, was placed on administrative leave, pending an investigation. Gutierrez-McKain has been with the Denver Police Department since 2013.

He and the other were not injured during the incident.

Police were called to the home at 8 Fox Street in the Baker neighborhood just before 4 a.m. Saturday by a woman who said she had been involved in an altercation with man and that there were warrants for his arrest, Archer said.

The woman coaxed Salazar into coming to the door, but when he saw police he fled up a set of steep, narrow stairs with the two officers in pursuit. The suspect went into the attic space and closed the door.

The officers heard a woman scream so they kicked in the door, which led to an attic that had been converted into a living space.

Salazar had armed himself with a 6-inch hunting knife and began swinging and slashing the blade toward the officers, Archer said. Officers ordered the man to drop the knife and then unsuccessfully used a Taser to stop him.

That’s when the one officer fired his gun, Archer said.

“Literally, their backs were against a wall,” she said.

The officers also were concerned about the woman’s safety because Salazar was armed, Archer said.

Salazar was taken to Denver Health Medical Center where he was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds, the coroner said.

Meanwhile, a second man in the attic space escaped the room through a window and hid on the house’s roof, Archer said. That man, Antonio Ruiz, also was wanted for outstanding felony warrants.

Ruiz refused to come down from the roof so the department’s SWAT unit was called.

While SWAT negotiated with Ruiz, another man, who was suffering from stab wounds, came to the house. He said he had been stabbed earlier by Salazar. He was taken to a hospital for treatment of non-life-threatening injuries, Archer said.

*Updated Aug. 30, 2016, at 12:01 p.m.* Updated to add the name of the police officer who fired his weapon in the incident.