Duane Barbati

Alamogordo Daily News

ALAMOGORDO – The 12th Judicial District Attorney’s Office and the New Mexico State Police determined through their joint investigation of the Sept. 2 officer involved shooting that Alamogordo Police Department officer Clint Corvinus was shot and killed by Joseph Moreno, District Attorney John P. Sugg said.

Sugg released the findings of the investigation Thursday at the Otero County Courthouse in Alamogordo.

Moreno was also killed during the officer involved shooting.

Sugg said Moreno’s autopsy showed Moreno had methamphetamine and marijuana in his system at the time of his death.

“Based on the law of New Mexico after a thorough investigation submitted to me by the New Mexico State Police, there is Joseph Moreno murdered officer Clint Corvinus while he was in the line of duty and officer Welsh was justified in shooting and killing Joseph Moreno,” he said.

Sugg said he met with the Corvinus and Moreno family to explain the findings of the District Attorney’s Office after a thorough investigation by the NMSP.

“We’ve completed the investigation,” he said. We’ve determined two things. First that officer Corvinus was shot and killed by Moreno and second APD officer Christopher Welch was justified in shooting Moreno.”

Welsh was on the final stages of his field officer’s training and Corvinus was Welsh’s field training officer, Sugg said.

“At that point and time, it was called the shadow phase,” he said. “During the shadow phase Welsh takes over as the primary officer with Corvinus basically supervising to make sure Welsh is doing everything correctly.”

Welsh was in his 10th month of service with APD and in the final stages of his field training, Sugg said.

“They received their morning briefing then they left the station,” he said. “Welch was the driver with Corvinus as the driver at that point and time.”

Sugg said Welch and Corvinus received a call for service then started their routine patrol down Florida Avenue towards First Street heading north around 8:30 a.m.

“They came across an individual that Clint Corvinus recognized as Diablo,” he said. “Diablo is Joseph Moreno. He recognized Diablo from a prior briefing where he was told that there was active warrants for Moreno’s arrest.”

Sugg said Moreno had five active warrants with four Magistrate Court warrants for misdemeanors and one felony warrant for conspiracy to commit aggravated burglary, attempt to commit aggravated burglary and possession of methamphetamine.

“Welch conducted a U-turn at that point Joseph Moreno began fleeing on foot,” he said. “As Moreno fled on foot, Corvinus notified dispatch they would be on foot pursuit and ask to verify the warrants. The warrants were verified. Officers Welch and Corvinus then exit their vehicle and start their foot pursuit.”

Sugg said at first Moreno went into an alley way then the officers went into the alley way while in the patrol car but somehow Moreno doubled back then the officers saw Moreno crossing Florida Avenue.

“They followed Moreno across Florida then once they got across Florida, they came within about 20 or 25 feet of Moreno,” he said. “Several instructions were given for Moreno to show them his hands. Moreno reached into a black bag that he had around his waist area and he pulled out a 357 magnum. He continued to flee and Welch continued to give instructions to drop the weapon.”

Sugg said Moreno did not drop the weapon then officer Welsh shot two times.

“One of those hit Moreno in the hip,” he said. “Moreno fell to the ground. When he fell to the ground, Moreno was facing officers. He fired five times. One of those hit officer Corvinus in the right bicep. It traveled across the arm into the chest cavity. It hit both lungs and carotid artery then traveled into the left arm.”

Sugg said officers Welsh continued to instruct Moreno to drop his weapon.

“Moreno stood up and began running away with the firearm still in his hand,” he said. “Welch continued to firing eight shots with eventually Welch hitting Moreno in the back of the head. Moreno then fell at that point and time.”

Sugg said Corvinus was able to make one last call to ask dispatch for an ambulance and notify that he had been hit.

“Two ambulances did arrive on scene,” he said. “One ambulance took care of Corvinus while the other ambulance took care of Moreno. A defibrillator detected a heartbeat on Corvinus then he was scooped up and put in an ambulance then taken to Gerald Champion hospital where he died. When they got over to Moreno he was dead from his gunshot wound to the head.”

Sugg said initially when APD officials arrived on the scene the firearm used by Moreno was secured then placed on the hood of a patrol unit.

“At that point and time they were giving aid to Moreno,” he said. “In all of that hectic situation they went ahead and placed it on the car. When they left the scene, they didn’t realize it was on the hood of the car. They were escorting the ambulance to the hospital so the gun fell off of the hood of the car at First and Cuba that gun was recovered by State Police.”

Sugg said an officer was taken to First and Cuba then identified it as the firearm used by Moreno.

“Additionally we submitted that firearm to the state labs division,” he said. “It was compared to the projectile from Corvinus’ body. The projectile from Corvinus’ body was matched as coming from that firearm. The firearm was a stolen firearm. The ATF took the firearm. They were able to reconstruct the obliterated serial number and trace it back that it was stolen in November 2015 here in Alamogordo.”