PARKER, Colo. – Authorities on Thursday morning released the body camera video from a Parker police officer who shot and killed a man accused of shooting Douglas County Sheriff’s Office Detective Dan Brite on Sept. 2.

Detective Brite is paralyzed from the waist down after he was allegedly shot by Randall Rodick, 40, in the incident near Sierra Vista in Parker. Brite is now being treated at Craig Hospital after being transferred from Parker Adventist on Oct. 6.

Parker officers and deputies with Douglas County were called out to the Sierra Vista area of Parker that day to help with Rodick, who was reported as being suicidal.

When officers arrived to Rodick’s home, he allegedly shot at the law enforcement officers and drove away, eventually crashing near Lifetime Fitness and once again exchanging gunfire with officers. Authorities have said an AK-47 and drum magazine were found at the scene.

Brite was shot in the exchange, but Parker Police Department Officer Ronnie Dorrell shot and killed Rodick shortly afterward.

Released Thursday at a news conference at the Parker Police Department were the full officer-involved shooting review from the 18th Judicial District Attorney’s Office, as well as the body camera video showing Officer Dorrell shooting Rodick.

Editor's Note: The full video released by Parker PD can be seen in the player above. Denver7 has censored two curse words and blurred the body of Rodick, but the rest of the video remains unchanged.

District Attorney George Brauchler in the report determined Officer Dorrell's shooting of Rodick was justified.

The report contains a rundown of the body camera video.

In the video, Officer Dorrell is seen stopping his car, running up to a staging area past several civilians, and taking cover while he waited for orders.

He is told to get closer to the scene, and gets in another cruiser to drive closer to the active scene. While driving closer to where Rodick was at the time, an officer on the radio says that shots were fired.

Dorrell arrives close to where Rodick had ended up and runs behind another squad car for cover. There, he fires at least one shot from his AR-15 rifle, hitting Rodick, after which he tells fellow officers over the radio the “suspect [is] down.”

As Dorrell and other officers secure the scene, they repeatedly say the Rodick is “down” and they call for medical attention.

Another officer says a handgun was found inside the RV and was secured.

Another officer asks, “Who got hit?”

“DB,” one officer says, referring to Brite. “F---, is he all right?” another officer asks, to which one of the officers at the scene says, “No.”

Dorrell tells the officers he took the shot that took down Rodick after one speculates Rodick shot himself.

The rest of the officers check themselves and one another to be sure they weren’t hit, and a commander at the scene tells Dorrell to be sure his safety is on (it is).

The commander tells Dorrell to come with him to be briefed after he confirms he fired his weapon.

The department also included a map that shows the movements of Rodick and Officer Dorrell, which is embedded below.

Parker Police Chief David King was joined at the news conference by a Parker police commander, Castle Rock Police Chief Jack Cauley and Douglas County Sheriff’s Office Chief Steve Johnson.

--------- Sign up for Denver7 email alerts to stay informed about breaking news and daily headlines.

Or, keep up-to-date on the latest news and weather with the Denver7 apps for iPhone/iPads, Android and Kindle.