Megan Janetsky

The Republic | azcentral.com

Two of the three men who fled from Avondale police after a credit-union robbery were in a Maricopa County jail Wednesday, and the man fatally shot by officers after a cross-Valley chase was identified as an ex-convict who had spent several years in Arizona prisons.

Steven Delrio, 31, was killed by Phoenix police officers after they had maneuvered a black SUV to a stop in Tempe after a miles-long chase, authorities said.

Ruben Rodriguez, 31, of Phoenix, and Sergio Escobedo, 21, of Glendale, were ordered held on a $250,000 bond in a Maricopa County jail after their initial court appearance.

RELATED: Man with knife killed by Phoenix police; 2nd man shot by officers in a day

Documents: Drug debt spurs robbery

Details of the robbery and the chase were provided in police and court documents Wednesday.

Rodriguez told officers he needed money to pay for a drug debt, according to court documents. While at a Pizza Hut near Central Avenue and Van Buren Street in Avondale, he called a friend to pick him up and take him to the Credit Union West branch at 503 W. Van Buren St., documents said.

He said he picked a gun up off the floor of the SUV and went into the bank, where he pointed it at tellers and told them to back up, documents said. He said he took money from the registers, put it in a trash can, ran from the building and returned to the SUV, which drove off, documents said.

Rodriguez said another man in the SUV fired at an Avondale officer who soon began pursuing them with his cruiser lights on, court documents said. Rodriguez got out of the vehicle near 67th Avenue and Thomas Road, and he was found and arrested in the backyard of a house in the 2800 block of North 65th Avenue, according to court documents.

Escobedo, who police identified as the shooter from the rear passenger seat, was taken into custody near 51st Avenue and Osborn Road, court documents said. He had $4,462 in his pockets, documents said.

In all, about $11,000 was taken from the credit union, documents said.

Fatal police shooting at I-10

The car chase continued for 45 minutes and almost 30 miles.

Avondale police followed the vehicle onto Interstate 10 east and Phoenix police took over the pursuit at 91st Avenue and I-10, police said.

Police used a combination of undercover surveillance and helicopters to follow the car through Avondale, Phoenix and eventually Tempe, according to court documents.

The driver, identified as Delrio, continued to flee and discard evidence along his route, according to Sgt. Jonathan Howard, Phoenix police spokesman. At 1900 W. Baseline Road in Tempe, members of the Phoenix Police Department Special Assignments Unit boxed in the vehicle as Delrio tried to enter Interstate 10 east, Howard said in a statement.

Delrio pointed a handgun at three officers, who responded by shooting Delrio, Howard said. He died at the scene.

Three Phoenix police officers were involved in the shooting: a 50-year-old with 28 years of experience; a 42-year-old with 18 years of experience; and a 43-year-old with 17 years of experience, Howard said in a statement.

Detectives from multiple jurisdictions were continuing to investigate, Howard said.

Escobedo and Rodriguez were booked on suspicion of armed robbery with a deadly weapon and aggravated assault of a police officer. Rodriguez, who has a previous felony conviction, also was booked on suspicion of possession of a weapon by a prohibited possessor. Both were scheduled to appear again in Maricopa County Superior Court on Sept. 14.

Delrio had spent several years in Arizona prisons after convictions for armed robbery, aggravated assault and endangerment, according to Arizona Department of Corrections records.