The two deputies who fatally shot a man Tuesday while attempting to arrest him were justified in their actions, Douglas County Attorney Don Kleine said Friday.

David L. Anderson, 25, tried to flee from the deputies, ramming a stolen pickup truck into a deputy’s Ford Explorer in the driveway of a home near 22nd and Q Streets. The Explorer was parked in front of the pickup, partially blocking it in.

Douglas County sheriff’s deputies Michael Jones and Scott Kuzminski, who together fired their weapons nine times, told investigators they were afraid for their lives and the lives of their fellow officers.

Anderson was hit by eight of the bullets. He died at a hospital about an hour after the shooting.

Omaha police investigated the shooting, which occurred as deputies were at the house to serve an arrest warrant on Anderson charging him with violating probation. Kleine reviewed the investigators’ report and watched surveillance video from a nearby business that he said helped corroborate the accounts of deputies and witnesses.

Under state law, Anderson’s death also will be reviewed by a grand jury.

Tuesday wasn’t the first time Anderson had tried to escape from authorities. In July, he drove away when deputies attempted to arrest him. In August, he rammed an Omaha police cruiser before getting away.

The use-of-force policy of the Douglas County Sheriff’s Office includes a section on when it’s appropriate to fire at a moving vehicle, noting that deputies should shoot only if all three conditions are met:

» “Imminent death or serious bodily injury” will occur to the officer or another person if the officer does not fire.

» There is an “identifiable assailant.”

» There is no “substantial danger” to innocent passengers in the vehicle or bystanders.

The policy does not, however, include recommendations for what deputies should do if a vehicle is barreling toward them.

“Each deputy must make a split-second determination of whether he/she can move to safety or must meet lethal force with lethal force,” Chief Deputy Thomas Wheeler said Friday.

The Omaha Police Department’s use-of-force policy suggests officers should avoid putting themselves in the path of a vehicle and, if possible, try to get out of the way instead of shooting at the vehicle.

The actions of the deputies leading up to the shooting may have forced their hands, said Sam Walker, a University of Nebraska at Omaha criminologist.

“The facts we have, based on the official statement, raises a number of questions about officer tactics,” said Walker, a professor emeritus at UNO. “It could be that different decisions and better decisions could have reduced or eliminated the need to use deadly force.”

Walker reviewed the police report on the shooting, which included a timeline of the incident and interviews with deputies and witnesses. He said he took issue with three choices the deputies made:

» Deputies did not position the Explorer so it would completely block the pickup truck Anderson was driving, allowing, in the words of the report, “an avenue of escape.”

» Deputies put themselves in danger by being in the path of the pickup.

» Deputy Tom Hearty said he could have been “in the path of his colleagues’ gunfire.”

Shooting in the direction of one of their colleagues or bystanders is something officers must take into account, Walker said: “That’s a really critical issue for me.”

Wheeler said the Sheriff’s Office will conduct an internal review of the shooting. He declined to comment on Tuesday’s shooting until that review is complete.

“Our training staff will interview involved deputies for the purpose of evaluating our current tactics and training methods as well as developing alternative responses, if appropriate,” Wheeler said.

Deputies were attempting to arrest Anderson on a warrant issued in May that charged him with violating the terms of his probation on a conviction for possession of a controlled substance. Police said Anderson’s criminal history includes arrests on suspicion of drug possession, careless driving and driving under the influence of alcohol.

Five deputies were involved in the attempted arrest Tuesday. Deputies were tipped off that Anderson would be going to the home at 5201 S. 22nd St. He backed into the driveway at 3:36 p.m. and took a bicycle out of the back of the pickup.

Deputies Hearty and Justin Williamson pulled up in the Explorer with their emergency lights flashing. By the time Williamson got to Anderson, Omaha police said in their report, Anderson was able to get back into the driver’s seat of the pickup. Williamson reached into the open window of the driver’s door and struggled with Anderson in an effort to prevent him from putting the pickup in gear. During the struggle, Williamson told investigators, Anderson’s girlfriend, 19-year-old Shannon Wood, was slapping Williamson’s arms.

Jones was coming around the front of the pickup to help Williamson when Anderson shifted the pickup into drive and drove forward. Jones drew his handgun and fired five times at Anderson as Jones moved to his left to avoid getting hit by the pickup. Three bullets from Jones’ gun struck the passenger side of the windshield. At least one hit the passenger-side window.

Before Jones fired his gun, he said, he saw Williamson fall down. Jones told investigators he feared that Williamson would be run over by the pickup. He said he also feared for his own life because he was in the path of the pickup.

The pickup hit the Explorer, then Anderson backed up and the pickup hit the garage.

The other deputy who fired his weapon, Kuzminski, was on the passenger side of the truck. Kuzminski said he, too, saw Williamson fall to the ground and saw that Hearty was behind the truck and in harm’s way as Anderson accelerated backward.

Kuzminski fired four times. He also pulled Wood out of the pickup.

Wood was not hit by gunfire, but had cuts on her legs from the shattered glass of the pickup’s passenger-side window. Friday, Wood was booked into jail on suspicion of possession of methamphetamine. The arrest was related to evidence recovered after the shooting, Omaha police said.

Wood told Omaha TV station KETV that she and Anderson were high on drugs when the incident occurred. They were at the South Omaha home to complete a Craigslist deal, Wood told the station.