J.D. Gallop

FLORIDA TODAY

The life of a Titusville man shot by police after an armed bank robbery early Wednesday was a swirl of personal tragedy that ended with his death along a patch of grass, authorities and family members say.

Just over a month ago, Jesse Daniel Joynt, a 35-year-old, one-time Hip Hop artist known to friends for his often brooding lyrics, was hit with the news of his father’s death in South Florida.

Then, a week ago, Joynt’s infant son died in childbirth, said his grandfather, Joe Joynt of Hollywood, Florida.

“He had a rough life. We talked to him about a week ago after his son (died). That would have been his first child. He called us about three days ago. We got the message, but we weren’t home,” Joynt said, adding that the recent heartaches may have been too much for his grandson.

Police shoot, kill Titusville armed robbery suspect

“This whole, this is 100 percent out of character for Jesse. This was a total surprise.”

Authorities said there were also financial struggles. Joynt, who occasionally used a cane, had no job and was on disability, his grandfather said.

But the exact circumstances of what placed Joynt on the path toward confrontation with a Titusville police officer Is being investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. What police say they know, however, is that just about 10:50 a.m. Wednesday, Joynt walked into the Bank of America branch at Harrison Street and Barna Avenue and demanded cash from a teller.

Police said he was armed with two pistols.

A teller quickly alerted police to the robbery.

Moments later Joynt, who had one leg, walked along Barna Avenue when he was confronted by officers, police report.

Paulette Dietz, a Titusville resident heading to the nearby Dollar General, was traveling south on Barna when she spotted Joynt walking and waving a sweatshirt over his head. “I could see something was going on. I sat there … he was on the opposite side of the street and just seemed agitated. There were a lot of police officers there, about six or seven, with their guns out,” said Dietz, who believed the officers were shouting for Joynt to stop and surrender.

Officers told him to put down his weapon and may have attempted to use an electronic stun gun, authorities said.

State investigators are trying to determine if the officer, who Titusville police have not identified by nane, saw Joynt raise his weapon, prompting the officer to act in self-defense.

“They shot him in the leg but he kept going. He was walking away from them. They kept yelling at him and they shot him again. This time he fell down to his knees and then fell over,” said Dietz.

“They didn’t have a choice … all he had to do was stop. It’s just very tragic.”

Officers quickly surrounded Joynt, lying wounded on a patch of grass just off the roadway, desperately attempting to resuscitate the unresponsive man. Joynt was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital. It was the fourth deadly officer-related shooting to take place in Brevard County this year.

His grandfather said Jesse struggled with personal setbacks throughout his life, including the childhood car crash that left him with leg problems. Later in life, he lost one of his legs in a shooting, Joe Joynt said.

But he also focused on finding a creative outlet.

“He wrote and rapped. He did a lot of writing. He had these big loose leaf notebooks packed with his thoughts, lyrics. Some were dark, some were light,” Joynt’s grandfather said.

“Parts of me were very proud of him. We loved Jesse to death but he walked to the beat of a different drummer.”

Joe Joynt said his grandson was living with his girlfriend and was happily anticipating becoming a father. Then his father died after years of medical problems, the grandfather pointed out. Then came the death of his son.

On social media, Joynt posted songs like Eric Clapton’s ‘Tears In Heaven,’ an ode by the famed guitarist for his own 4-year-old son who died tragically.

“I know Jesse has gone through a lot in the past two months. Whatever happened, this could have been his way of carrying out, maybe ending his life,” Joe Joynt said.

“We don’t know. We’re never going to know.”

Contact Gallop at 321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com and Twitter at @JDGallop