September 9, 2016 - A suspect who allegedly tried to run over Shelby County Sheriff's deputies Thursday when they were serving a homicide warrant against him was killed Friday morning in a gunbattle at the Days Inn in West Memphis, authorities said. Ricardo Tenorio was dead at the motel, located at 1100 Ingram Boulevard, after a shootout with police about 3 a.m., Assistant Chief Deputy Mark Dunbar of the Sheriff's Office said. (Yalonda M. James/The Commercial Appeal)

SHARE Ricardo Tenorio

By Clay Bailey of The Commercial Appeal

A suspect who allegedly tried to run over Shelby County Sheriff’s deputies Thursday when they were serving a homicide warrant against him, was killed Friday morning in a gun battle at a West Memphis motel, authorities said.

Ricardo Tenorio, 32, was dead at the Days Inn on Ingram Boulevard after the shootout with police about 3 a.m. Assistant Chief Deputy Mark Dunbar of the Sheriff’s Office said.

Dunbar said Tenorio “initiated the gun battle” with authorities. He could not say how many shots were fired by officers.

Authorities had searched for Tenorio after he tried to run over the Shelby County deputies with a van on Wells Station about 3:10 p.m. Thursday. The deputies were attempting to serve a warrant on Tenorio in connection with an Aug. 26 homicide on Mikayla Lane, Dunbar said. Thomas Regenold, 33, was shot in the head inside the home.

Authorities received information regarding Tenorio being in West Memphis and contacted that city’s police department. Authorities surrounded the hotel, and, Dunbar said, Tenorio came out of the room firing at authorities and was shot.

He was pronounced dead at the scene.

The search for Tenorio began Thursday afternoon when deputies went to 1524 Wells Station to serve the homicide warrant. As deputies approached Tenorio, Dunbar said, he got into a white van with the word “Raymond” printed on each side. He attempted to run over the deputies as he fled, Dunbar said.

At least one deputy opened fire at the fleeing suspect.

About 12 hours later, authorities were surrounding the Days Inn where Tenorio was located.

According to court records, Tenorio has a lengthy arrest record dating back to 2007 on charges ranging from theft of property and vandalism to possession of drug paraphernalia and possession of methamphetamine.

His last arrest was in June, when he was charged with possession of drug paraphernalia, assault and resisting and evading arrest. A warrant was issued for his arrest on the charges in July.

Reporters Jody Callahan and Yolanda Jones contributed to this story.