SARATOGA — Details finally began to spill out Friday in a shocking police shooting in this quiet hillside town, raising the tragic possibility that the elderly victim believed intruders were at his door when he picked up the revolver that led a sheriff’s deputy entering his home to kill him.

Eugene Craig, 86, was shot to death Monday evening at his Titus Avenue residence. Officials had provided only the barest description of the events surrounding his death until this news organization asked them to respond to allegations from a friend of the family.

The friend, Greg Delaney, said Craig and his wife were not aware deputies were the ones pounding on their front door and thought the worst when the two deputies burst through a side entrance. Craig, a Navy veteran, grabbed his .38 caliber revolver, and the deputies opened fire after catching sight of the gun.

“It’s an outrage. They treated him like a damn criminal,” said Delaney, whose version of events is based on a conversation with Craig’s 90-year-old wife and other friends who witnessed portions of the encounter.

But the Sheriff’s Office asserts that deputies — who had been sent to the home to check on the condition of the residents — identified themselves clearly and spent nearly an hour calling out to anyone inside. They entered with the belief that someone may have been in distress, officials said.

“Anytime there is a loss of life, it is a tragedy,” Sheriff Laurie Smith said in a statement. “Our deputies confront dangerous situations on a daily basis, and in this particular incident, I believe the deputies acted appropriately.”

Through another family friend, Craig’s wife and family declined to comment on the shooting.

According to the Sheriff’s Office, two deputies went to the home around 7:50 p.m. Monday to perform a “welfare check” after someone claiming to be a relative called the sheriff’s office to report they had not been able to reach Craig for several weeks, and said that he had “medical issues.”

The deputies reportedly knocked on the front door and called the residential phone, which they said rang for 30 seconds with no answer. The Sheriff’s Office said the deputies also tapped on windows and repeatedly announced their presence.

Delaney said Craig’s wife disputes the contention that the deputies were clear in announcing themselves. He said Craig and his wife were eating dinner when the commotion started.

“Gene was freaking out. He thought someone was trying to break into his house,” Delaney said.

Around 8:40 p.m., the deputies called for fire and ambulance support for someone they “believed to be an elderly person with medical issues that was not responding to repeated attempts to make contact,” the Sheriff’s Office said. The deputies tried to force their way in through the front entrance, but could not get past the steel-reinforced door.

The deputies then went around the house and forced entry through a side door. Soon after, authorities said, the deputies came into contact with a man holding a revolver.

The Sheriff’s Office contends that the man raised the weapon at the deputies and ignored orders to drop it, prompting Sgt. Doug Ulrich to shoot and kill Craig.

Ulrich, a 14-year veteran of the Sheriff’s Office, was placed on paid administrative leave and an internal investigation was launched in tandem with the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office, which is routine after any officer-involved shooting in the county.

Sheriff’s officials have said deputies have responded to the Craig’s home before, but they have not released any details of those calls.

Delaney said he remains puzzled as to how a welfare check could have ended with his friend dead.

“They opened the door, saw that he had a gun, and shot him. … They killed him in front of his wife,” he said. “These people were trigger happy.”