Alexis Egeland, and Jerod MacDonald-Evoy

The Republic | azcentral.com

The man killed after he pointed a gun at Phoenix officers following a home invasion and chase Thursday was identified as Robert Carrillo, police said.

A Phoenix police sergeant fatally shot Carrillo, 32, near 20th and Watkins streets, said Sgt. Vince Lewis, Phoenix police spokesman.

Carrillo had fled on foot after crashing his car on Interstate 17 near the junction with westbound Interstate 10, Lewis said in a statement. He turned and pointed his handgun at two officers and a sergeant, and the sergeant fired his service weapon, Lewis said.

Carrillo was pronounced dead at the scene.

He had been pursued from the scene of a home invasion in near the 6900 block of West Avalon Drive.

Carrillo had been released in May from the Arizona State Prison Complex in Phoenix after serving a one-year sentence for a drug paraphernalia charge out of Maricopa County, court records showed.

Carrillo spent a year in prison for a 2005 drug paraphernalia charge and another year in 2001 for possession of burglary tools, according to Arizona Department of Corrections records. In 2006, Carrillo plead guilty to disorderly conduct charges at a court in Flagstaff, and two years before that plead guilty to giving liquor to a minor, according to court records.

The other suspect, 21-year-old Penisimani Ika, was detained at the west Phoenix home. He was booked into a Maricopa County jail on suspicion of three counts of armed robbery, three counts of kidnapping and one count of first-degree burglary.

No officers were injured, Lewis said.

This was the 35th police shooting of 2016 in Maricopa County, and 23 of them have been fatal, according to data compiled by The Arizona Republic.

Police were called to a home near 69th Avenue and Thomas Road about 1:30 a.m. and arrived to find a home invasion in progress by two men. Ika was detained but Carrillo left in a vehicle, Lewis said.

Officers followed the car to a neighborhood near Seventh Avenue and Broadway Road, where the driver got out of the vehicle and entered a home.

Police surrounded the home and positioned tire spikes on vehicles parked nearby. Within a half hour, Carrillo left the home and drove away in a white SUV, according to a police statement.

Two officers and a sergeant followed Carrillo until he lost control of the SUV on I-17, abandoned the car and tried to flee on foot, the statement said.

Police said no one was injured in the home invasion, but three people were detained after police discovered extensive evidence of drug activity. Lewis said a new and separate narcotics investigation was underway.