Maranda Faris

Jackson Sun

A man who fatally shot his estranged wife in Bolivar led police on a chase that ended near Chickasaw State Park, where he killed himself Thursday morning, police said.

Police have identified the couple as Johntate Thompson, 24, of Jackson, and Camille Thompson, 26, according to a report from the Bolivar Police Department.

Johntate and Camille Thompson were estranged, police said, and he went to her mother's house in Bolivar early Thursday morning to talk to her.

"Her mom told him, 'She doesn't want to talk to you,'" Bolivar Police Chief Pat Baker said.

McKenzie man sentenced on child porn charges

Johntate Thompson left, and Camille — a mother of four — got ready to take her oldest two children to school, Baker said.

"Her mom knew something was wrong, so she followed her to make sure she made it to the school," he said.

Baker said Johntate Thompson was waiting for Camille at Vale Road and Pleasant Creek Lane, and tried to block her car in. As she tried to drive around him, he got out of his car and began shooting at her while the two children were still in her car.

Camille Thompson's mother, who had been following her and saw the shooting, tried to run over Johntate, according to the police report. He pointed the gun at his mother-in-law but did not fire.

Camille's mother then drove to a Bull Market gas station nearby to get help for her daughter. Johntate Thompson walked up to Camille's car and shot his wife several more times.

According to the police report, Camille Thompson was shot 10 times.

Police said the children were not injured. Camille Thompson's mother was getting her two grandchildren out of the car when officers arrived.

Police received the 911 call about 7:45 a.m. Johntate Thompson led police on a high-speed chase from Tate Road, near where Camille Thompson was shot, down Highway 18. The report says police followed him until Naylor Road, when the pursuit became too dangerous to continue.

Police said Johntate Thompson later called 911, which allowed officers to track his location, and led to another chase through Chester County, which ended off Sand Road at a dirt road where a tree blocked his path.

"He had pinned himself in. At that time the deputies were behind him," Baker said. "After a few moments he took his life."

The report says Thompson shot himself in the head and was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said it is assisting with the investigation.

Chester County sheriff's deputies, Hardeman County deputies and the Tennessee Highway Patrol were involved in the car chase.

District Attorney General Mike Dunavant said both Johntate and Camille Thompson's bodies have been sent for autopsy, and evidence does not suggest any other people were involved or responsible for Camille's death.

Reach Maranda at (731) 425-9657. Follow her on Twitter: @MarandaFaris