Maranda Faris

mfaris2@jacksonsun.com

Decatur County sheriff's deputies fatally shot a man suspected of two armed robberies after he tried to evade police on Highway 641 early Tuesday morning, according to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.

Charles Dove, 35, of Jackson, was killed in the shooting, TBI spokeswoman Susan Niland said. No deputies were injured. A gun was recovered from Dove's body, Niland said. She said she couldn't comment on whether Dove shot at the deputies because that is part of the TBI's investigation.

After the shooting, Jackson police identified Dove as the man who robbed Old Hickory Package Store on North Highland Avenue just before 10 p.m. Monday. According to a news release, Dove took cash from the liquor store at gunpoint. No employees or customers were injured.

The second robbery was reported at the Marathon gas station at Highway 641 and Interstate 40 Exit 126 in Decatur County about 1 a.m. Tuesday. About 2:30 a.m. on Highway 641 south of the gas station, deputies spotted a car driven by Dove that matched the description from the robbery, Niland said.

Victim relieved by guilty verdicts in shooting

Police, TBI investigate Humboldt woman's death

Deputies set up a "rolling roadblock" to try to slow down the car, and Dove drove off the road and down an embankment, apparently trying to escape, Niland said. Five deputies were at the scene. Some deputies remained on the road while others went down the embankment, Niland said.

She said "during an altercation" with Dove, deputies shot him. He was pronounced dead at the scene. No one else was in the car with him.

"There were five deputies who were involved in this incident. It is unknown at this stage how many fired their weapons," Niland said. "The investigation remains active and ongoing."

It's TBI policy not to release officers' name during a shooting investigation, she said.

Decatur County Sheriff Keith Byrd referred questions to the TBI in regards to the shooting. The deputies involved have been placed on routine paid administrative leave.

Byrd said deputies responded to the gas station robbery, in which an unknown amount of cash was taken. He said no one was injured in the robbery.

Surveillance video from the gas station has been turned over to the TBI, along with one deputy's body camera video. No patrol cars involved had dashboard cameras, Byrd said.

Employees at the Marathon gas station declined to comment on the robbery.

The car Dove was driving was reported stolen in Lexington on Monday, Niland said. Lexington police said it was stolen from Golden Circle of Lexington during a test drive Monday afternoon, when Dove told the salesperson he thought the trunk was open and the employee stepped out of the car to check.

Dove was sentenced in 2006 to serve 11 years in the West Tennessee State Penitentiary for a violation of parole from a 2003 aggravated robbery in Decatur County. He has prior charges from Madison County, Chester County and Decatur County for theft, forgery, robbery and aggravated burglary, according to TBI records.

The TBI violent crimes response team from Memphis, along with several special agent forensic scientists, responded to the shooting scene. The TBI will turn the findings of its investigation over to the 24th Judicial District Attorney's Office.

Reach Maranda Faris at (731) 425-9657. Follow her on Twitter @MarandaFaris.