Melissa E. Holsman, and Will Greenlee

Treasure Coast





PORT ST. LUCIE — A grand jury on Thursday cleared five St. Lucie County Sheriff’s officials of any wrongdoing during the September fatal shooting of a Port St. Lucie man.

Four detectives and a deputy responding to a home on Southwest Abacus Avenue in the early hours of Sept. 20 fired multiple rounds at Joshua Scott, 22, during a six-hour standoff, police and court records show.

The officers cleared include Special Investigations Unit detectives Paul Pearson Jr., 37; Nathaniel Stubley, 36; Michael Favale, 27; Charles Singletary III, 33; and deputy David Batchford, 46. The five deputies were placed on administrative leave on Sept. 20 and returned to duty Sept. 23.

Police-involved shootings: Fatal shooting by Port St. Lucie police justified, grand jury finds

Sheriff’s Chief Deputy Garry Wilson said he was pleased with the findings.

“Any time there’s a situation like this … everybody is involved in the tragedy, both the officers and the deputies involved and the families,” he said. “We were confident that everything that our deputies did was in the line of duty and to have it reinforced by the grand jury is just how our system works.”

Officials were attempting to deliver to Scott a court-ordered Baker Act, a form of mental health commitment, when he fired several rounds from inside the residence.

At the time, Sheriff’s officials said after repeated attempts to talk to Scott, he climbed out of a window armed with a handgun.

“He had been shooting throughout the night while we were trying to negotiate and talk to him," Wilson said. "We did everything possible to resolve this peaceably, and he came charging out on the front lawn armed with a handgun, pointed it at the deputies and they did what they’re trained to do.”

Scott was pronounced dead at the scene about 3:30 a.m.

Prosecutors began presenting their case Wednesday to a St. Lucie County grand jury, which determined the deputies were justified in the use of deadly force.

Police-involved shootings: Anthony Westbury: Where's the report on Semer shooting?

In September, Port St. Lucie police spokesman Master Sgt. Frank Sabol said there had been nine calls to the home since October 2014, ranging from suicide threats to domestic disturbances.

A day before the incident, Scott's mother had petitioned the court for an involuntary examination of her son, records show.

According to statements made in the petition, police went to the home on Sept. 18 and spoke to Scott via cellphone.

"He felt Josh was too agitated to force him out," the petition stated. "He left him to hopefully calm down knowing I was petitioning you today for a Baker act they would wait for court order.

The mother also stated in the report Scott came home from work and thought someone was in the home. Scott kicked in her bedroom door with a gun looking for them.

The incident started about 9:15 p.m. Sept. 19 when deputies went to the 1300 Block of Southwest Abacus Avenue to serve the court order.

Sheriff Ken Mascara said negotiators tried to make contact with Scott by telephone and text messaging. Scott kept hanging up on phone calls and he largely ignored text messages, the sheriff said.

But Scott then armed himself with a handgun and “barricaded himself inside the residence," Sheriff's officials said afterward.

Florida Department of Law Enforcement records show Scott had been arrested three times, all by agencies in St. Lucie County, including in April 2014 for misdemeanor marijuana possession during a traffic stop.

Two months earlier, Sheriff's deputies stopped a Jeep that investigators say Scott was driving on Prima Vista Boulevard in Port St. Lucie. The Jeep was hauling a trailer without working taillights.

Scott told investigators a weapon was on the passenger seat covered by a sweater. Investigators found a loaded .45-caliber handgun, and Scott said he was using it earlier in the day at a gun range.

He was arrested on a felony charge of carrying a concealed weapon and two traffic-related charges. He pleaded no contest to the gun charge and was placed on a year’s probation. The most recent arrest was by the Sheriff's Office in February on a probation violation charge.