A grand jury on Thursday cleared a Cass County deputy sheriff in the shooting death of unarmed motorist Austin Baier during a traffic stop last September in Louisville.

Deputy Tyler Reiff had reason to fear for his safety when he shot the charging 23-year-old, the grand jury said.

But its report indicates Reiff didn't have adequate backup or enough means to control the situation with less-than-lethal force.

Just before 7 p.m. on Sept. 21, a man called the Cass County Sheriff's Office to say a car was spinning around in circles in the front lawn of his home east of Louisville, according to radio transmissions.

Reiff tried to stop Baier's 1992 Buick Century at 7:12 because it matched the description of that reckless driving report, Cass County Attorney Nathan Cox said in September.

Baier stopped near First and Cherry streets in the town of 1,100, then drove ahead and then stopped again, authorities have said.

Baier got out of his car, first walking "aggressively" and then running toward Reiff, who had exited his cruiser, the grand jury said.

The deputy drew his gun, repeatedly ordered Baier to "get down" and retreated as Baier advanced, the grand jury reported.

Nebraska State Patrol investigators said Reiff fired five shots.

Baier died at the scene.

Forty seconds elapsed between the moment Reiff first stopped Baier and when he told dispatchers he had shot Baier, according to the audio.

A pathologist determined Baier bled to death after a gunshot wound that penetrated his pulmonary artery.

The grand jury convened Wednesday and Thursday at the Cass County Courthouse to investigate Baier's death.

The grand jury recommended officers be equipped by their agencies with Tasers.

And the Cass County Sheriff's Office should hire one to two more officers per shift, "as there was no reasonable backup for Deputy Reiff," the grand jury said.

Cass County Sheriff William Brueggemann didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on the grand jury's recommendations.

His office patrols the 17 towns and cities in the county of more than 25,000 people that stretches 566 square miles.

Cass County Commissioner Duane Murdoch said he hadn't seen the grand jury's report Thursday but the board would take a close look at its recommendations.

The sheriff has never told the board he has staffing issues, Murdoch said.

"It was just a tragic incident, the whole thing,” Murdoch said.

Baier was a cook at the Main Street Café a year ago and most recently worked at a gas station, according to Louisville residents who described him as a nice guy who kept to himself.

He went to Weeping Water High School, where he was on the wrestling team.

Baier's mother, reached Wednesday night, said the family isn't ready to comment on his death yet.

Seven people, including Baier, were fatally shot by police in Nebraska in 2016, according to The Washington Post.

Baier's death appears to be the first fatal shooting involving a Cass County deputy since Brueggemann became sheriff in 1991, according to newspaper records.

Reiff, who is 26, was placed on administrative leave after the shooting. His status with the department wasn't immediately clear Thursday.

In April 2013, he graduated from the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center in Grand Island after 14 weeks of training, according to a news release from the center.

Reiff didn't immediately respond to a request for comment Thursday.