RINGTOWN — A man apparently killed himself at a borough home Thursday after holding state police at bay for more than four hours while his 2-year-old child was inside with him.

David Howard, 33, allegedly took his own life as state police officers, including members of the Special Emergency Response Team, were trying to talk him out of the home of his parents on the 300 block of Spring St. about 4:45 p.m.

Howard was pronounced dead at the scene at 5:23 p.m. by Schuylkill County Deputy Coroner Andrew Szczyglak, Shenandoah.

Szyzglak said an autopsy will be performed today to determine the cause of death, but at present it appears Howard, of Hazle Township, died of a self-inflicted wound.

Police were called to the scene about 1 p.m. after a report was received that Howard was barricaded inside the home of his parents with his daughter, possibly armed and threatening to commit suicide.

Investigators were apparently able to keep in contact with Howard, who eventually let the child exit the home unharmed.

While officers tried to negotiate with Howard, trying to get him to exit the home peacefully, other officers set a perimeter around the property and cordoned off the area about a block in each direction.

An armored SERT vehicle was brought to the scene on a flatbed truck and stationed at Walnut and Spruce streets. Also in that area officers set up a command post including a generator and lighting in case the standoff continued into the night.

At the scene, police did not provide information as to what led to the standoff, how it ended, or what occurred in between.

After the standoff ended, Howard’s aunt walked slowly toward the house.

“It didn’t end good,” she said quietly.

Julian Milewski, Ringtown borough council president and an employee of The Republican-Herald, said the incident forced borough hall to be placed on lockdown.

The lockdown, he said, kept borough Secretary-Treasurer Gina “Angel” Mays inside and unable to leave.

Early on in the standoff, Milewski said, Mays exited borough hall to see what was occurring outside and was met by a state police sharpshooter in the driveway.

“He told her to go inside and lock the doors and that’s what she did,” Milewski said.

He said the trooper told Mays that police were in the process of negotiating with Howard and told her to stay inside and wait until the situation was over.

After Howard allegedly took his life, Mays was allowed to leave, Milewski said.

The council president also said the standoff delayed school buses from dropping off children in the borough.

The school buses were delayed for about 45 minutes until police surrounded the house and made sure it was safe for the children, Milewski said.