Mike Argento

margento@ydr.com

Update, Sept. 24

An autopsy performed on Carl Snellings on Saturday morning shows cause of death to be blunt force trauma to the chest, according to the York County Coroner's office. His death was ruled accidental.

Previously reported:

A York man died in a crash Thursday night after being pursued by York City Police, state police reported.

Carl Snellings, 51, of the 300 block of South Penn Street, died after being thrown from a vehicle after it struck a wooden post at the intersection of Pleasant Way and McKenzie Street in York, according to a release from the coroner's office.

State police reported that Snellings was one of two men in a 2000 Ford F-150 pickup truck being sought by city police in relation to a hit-and-run crash that had occurred at about 10:15 p.m. State police did not report where the hit-and-run had occurred.

About an hour later, police pulled the truck over. As the officers got out of their patrol car, state police reported, the driver took off, touching off a pursuit that lasted 30 or 40 seconds before the truck crashed into what was described as wooden posts.

The posts, sections of utility poles, are embedded along the boundary of a vacant lot at the corner of McKenzie and East Maple streets, forming a barrier to prevent cars from cutting through the lot.

Snellings was ejected from the truck and died at the scene. The other man fled on foot.

It is unknown if Snellings was the driver or a passenger.

Luke Kinard, who lives in the 500 block of McKenzie Street, said he was watching Thursday Night Football when he heard a noise from the alley that runs alongside his house.

He thought, momentarily, that the city's trash hauler was emptying the dumpster in the parking lot across the street. Then, he said, he heard a second loud noise and looked outside.

He saw police cars and a green pickup in the alley. He heard one of the police officers yell "Stop! Don't run!" at a fleeing man. "But that fella was gone," he said.

Juror refuses to deliberate in trial of ex-cop

He saw Snellings' body lying on the asphalt of the alley by his fence. A female police officer checked his pulse and then turned and spoke to another officer. "He was gone," Kinard said.

George Ortiz, who lives in the 500 block of South Duke Street and has a clear view of the alley from his back windows, said he also heard the crash and looked outside. He saw the back of the truck in the alley, a big white plastic water container in its bed. He knew, immediately, it was Snellings' truck.

"I knew him since he was a young buck," Ortiz said. "It's crazy how he died. He should have just stopped and got arrested. What a waste."

Ortiz said he would see Snellings around town often, pretty much every day. He'd always stop and ask, "What's up?"

"He was a nice guy," Ortiz said. "He was always joking around. He was good people."

Animal shelter founder charged with dealing heroin

State police are investigating because of York City Police's involvement in the pursuit. City Police Chief Wes Kahley declined to comment, citing the state police investigation.

An autopsy has been scheduled for 8 a.m. Saturday at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown.