Philadelphia Police have released further information on an officer-involved shooting that took place earlier this week in Cobbs Creek.

On Wednesday, at 6:56 p.m. officers responded to the 6200 block of Hazel Avenue for a report of a person screaming and person shot.

When they arrived they found a 13-year-old male, bleeding from multiple stab wounds, and an 8-year-old male, bleeding from stab wounds to the neck and chest.

Officers were told that the 32-year-old father of the 8-year-old had assaulted both children with a knife.

A 12-year-old female also said that her father, the suspect, choked her and that he seemed to be under the influence of narcotics.

After attacking the children, the man fled the scene.

The two male children were taken to Children's Hospital and listed in critical condition.

The following officers responded to the incident: Anthony Britton Jr. a 17-year veteran of the department assigned to the 18th District; Jeremy Olesik a 9-year-veteran assigned to the 18th District; Michael Kane Jr. a 9-year-veteran assigned to the 18th District; Thomas Thompson a 1-year veteran assigned to the 18th District; Walton Scott a 2-year-veteran assigned to the 18th District; Ronald Green a 19-year veteran assigned to the 18th District; Adrian Hustler a 9-year veteran assigned to the 18th District; Richard Edwards a 8-year veteran assigned to the 12th District and Timothy Moebius a 3-year veteran assigned to the 12th District.

Officers surveyed the scene and received information that the man may be on the 700 block of Cobbs Creek Parkway.

When police arrived in the area, they saw the male exist a residence with his right hand in his pocket; at which time the officers gave him commands to show his hands, which initially he refused.

The officers then said the man removed his hand from his pocket and had what they believed to be a handgun in his hand.

The officers then fired in the direction of the male. During the discharge the male was struck multiple times. At this time, it hasn't been determined which officers actually struck the man.

He was taken to Penn-Presbyterian Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 7:48 p.m.

At this time, no weapon was recovered from the man or his immediate area. A cell phone was recovered from the ground next to the male.

Two additional victims were found inside the residence on Cobbs Creek Parkway, a 70-year-old female, who told police that the man entered her home and then took a steak knife from her kitchen and cut her throat. She was taken to Penn-Presbyterian where she is in critical condition.

The second victim is a 41-year-old female who had been punched in the face multiple times by the male. She was taken to Mercy Hospital where she is in stable condition.

Officers executed a search warrant at the home on the 6200 block of Hazel Avenue where a switchblade type of knife was found.

Inside the home on the 700 block of Cobbs Creek Parkway was a steak knife with a broken handle recovered from the kitchen area.

The suspect has been identified as 32-year-old Christopher Sowell.