The El Cajon police officer who last year fatally shot Alfred Olango, an unarmed black man, was justified and will not face criminal charges, the District Attorney’s Office announced Tuesday.

“The law recognizes police officers are often forced to make split-second decisions in circumstances that are tense, uncertain and rapidly evolving,” Dumanis said during a news conference at the downtown Hall of Justice. “As prosecutors we have an ethical duty to follow the law and only charge individuals when we have proof beyond a reasonable doubt. The only reasonable conclusion was the officer’s actions were justified.”

The announcement by Dumanis elicited a swift condemnation from Olango’s family, friends and supporters, who promised to continue to fight for justice and have the officer’s deadly use of force independently investigated.

Advertisement

“War has been declared on humanity and the battle line has been drawn,” Olango’s father, Richard Olango Abuka, told reporters at a news conference at Ebenezer Missionary Baptist Church in Shelltown.

The father, who immigrated to the U.S. from Uganda, said he was shocked that a police officer in America can kill a human being without being arrested.

“This is the time to talk for Alfred. This is the time to defend Alfred ... and even to cry for Alfred,” Olango Abuka said.

The Rev. Shane Harris, president of the San Diego branch of the National Action Network, a civil-rights group, said he will ask Gov. Jerry Brown to appoint a special prosecutor to the case.

Dumanis’ announcement that the shooting was justified comes more than three months after Olango was shot during an altercation in the parking lot behind a taco shop in a strip mall, which thrust San Diego County into an ongoing national conversation about the relationship between police agencies and communities of color.

Immediately after the shooting, protesters marched for days in the streets and near Broadway and Mollison Avenue where the shooting occurred. Most of the protests were peaceful, but authorities said there were incidents of violence — breaking car windows and throwing rocks and bottles at police and sheriff’s deputies — and there were arrests.

The District Attorney’s Office on Tuesday also discussed at the news conference the fatal officer-involved shootings of four other men in San Diego County: David Moya, Sergio Weick, Juan Carlos Fernandez and Trenton Lohman. Those shootings were also ruled to be justified.

Database: Fatal officer-involved shootings in San Diego County, 1980-2017 »

Police said the officers who confronted Olango at 2:10 p.m. on Sept. 27 believed he was armed with a weapon, which was later revealed to be an e-cigarette device.

In her letter to El Cajon Police Chief Jeff Davis that discusses the findings, the district attorney said tests showed Olango, a 38-year-old Ugandan refugee, had cocaine and alcohol in his system at the time of his death.

Olango’s family has said publicly the married father of two had been struggling with the death of a close friend.

Dumanis’ letter describes in detail what investigators and witnesses say happened the day of the shooting.

Early in the morning, Olango’s sister, Lucy, said Olango showed up at her apartment, appearing scared and confused, pacing and sweating. He told her to close the blinds to block out bright light, that people were after him and he was scared to go outside, she later told investigators. He said he hadn’t slept in two days.

Concerned, she finally called 911 at 12:57 p.m., saying her brother wasn’t “acting like himself” and asked for help taking him to a mental facility. She told the dispatcher he didn’t have any weapons.

Officers did not immediately respond due to other serious incidents going on in the city, including a person possibly carrying a rifle, a man cutting bushes with a knife up and down a city street, and a fight at a school involving 20 students.

District attorney’s letter in Alfred Olango fatal shooting »

Olango’s sister said he had left her apartment by then and, as she drove off for work, she noticed him walking in and out of traffic, nearly being struck by cars.

She called 911 again at 1:44 p.m., then called a third time 17 minutes after that. Olango’s erratic movements had prompted others in the area to call 911, as well.

Officers Richard Gonsalves and Josh McDaniel were sent to the call at 2:03 p.m., with the dispatcher asking them to check the area of Broadway and Mollison for a person with a mental disorder. The dispatcher did not relay this sister’s comment that Olango did not have a weapon.

Gonsalves found Olango in the Los Panchos taco shop parking lot and noticed a bulge in his right pocket that looked like he had something else in there besides his hand, the officer told investigators. Gonsalves said he unsnapped his holster, kept his hand on his pistol and asked Olango to remove his hand from his pocket.

Olango kept moving around the parking lot, to the left and right, and backed up against a white pickup. He responded, “No, no, no,” to the officer’s many commands. At one point, Gonsalves said he decided to unholster his weapon but held it low to his side.

Meanwhile, Olango’s sister was behind Gonsalves, yelling at her brother to remove his hand. She also told Gonsalves at the scene that her brother didn’t have any weapons, according to one witness.

McDaniel pulled up in his own patrol car to Olango’s left and, seeing his partner already had a gun drawn, decided to pull out his Taser as an alternate use of force.

Cellphone and security camera video released by authorities showed Olango suddenly pull a shiny object from his front pants pocket and aim it at Gonsalves in a two-handed shooting stance.

Dumanis said the video showed Olango made a motion appearing to fire a gun, which included making a fake recoil action. She said the officer responded with a ducking motion to protect himself.

Gonsalves fired his gun four times, fatally wounding Olango, while McDaniel shot the Taser.

Dumanis said six witnesses to the shooting were interviewed, including a retired law enforcement officer who happened to be driving by.

One witness told investigators she thought the object was a gun based on Olango’s motions, adding she thought the shooting was valid: “The cop had every right — shoot or be killed.”

The District Attorney’s Office investigated the incident, as it does all officer-involved shootings in the county. The office is tasked with determining whether the officer should be held criminally liable for his actions, and the review does not consider issues regarding department policies, training, tactics, discipline, less-lethal force options or whether there is a civil liability, Dumanis said.

She said the manner in which Olango abruptly pulled out the object from his pocket — rather than slowly complying with the officer’s demands — was “critical in determining whether the officer’s fear of being shot was reasonable under the circumstances.”

“It appears Olango’s actions in bringing up his hands in this manner, with the vaping device, was a purposeful, intentional act by Olango to place Gonsalves in fear that he was about to be shot,” Dumanis concluded in her letter to the police chief.

The Rev. Al Sharpton of the National Action Network, and others have called on the Justice Department to investigate the shooting.

Olango’s relatives have also filed wrongful-death claims with the city, which are precursors to lawsuits.

Los Angeles attorney Brian Dunn, who represent’s Olango’s wife and daughters, said they are disappointed in the district attorney’s ruling.

“This is not in any way going to diminish our resolve to seek justice for the family through the civil justice system and the reforms that will work to ensure that this type of homicide does not occur in the future,” Dunn said in an interview.

He said the filing of a federal civil-rights lawsuit is “imminent.”

San Diego attorney Dan Gilleon, who is representing an El Cajon officer in a sexual harassment lawsuit against Gonsalves, said Gonsalves “escalated a situation that should have been de-escalated.” Gilleon also represents Olango’s sister.

“He provoked and terrified a man he knew was having a mental breakdown,” Gilleon said.

One police practices expert agreed with Dumanis’ conclusion in the Olango shooting. He noted Olango’s failure to obey orders and that other witnesses said Gonsalves tried to calm Olango down at first.

“This was about as justified a shooting as there could be,” said Ed Obayashi, a Plumas County sheriff’s deputy and lawyer who serves as a legal adviser to several law enforcement agencies in the state and is recognized as a use-of-force expert by the federal government. “Any other officer in the same position would have done the same thing.”

He said a troubled Olango may have wanted a “suicide by cop.”

“I think whatever demons were in him, he just wanted to end it,” he said.

Four law officer shootings around San Diego County justified »

Olango had encounters with law enforcement years before the fatal shooting. Because of drug and firearm convictions, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement had twice tried to deport him.

El Cajon Mayor Bill Wells said Tuesday that while he hadn’t yet read the report, he was briefed on it. “My first reaction is (the report) was clear and it stands on its own,” he said.

Police Chief Davis said at a City Council meeting Tuesday that he could not comment on Dumanis’ findings or Gonsalves’ employment status because of pending litigation. The officer has been on paid administrative leave.

The local National Action Network chapter plans to lead a march in downtown San Diego on Monday, the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, to commemorate the civil-rights leader and speak out on community issues, including police reform. The march will start at 2 p.m. at Park Boulevard and B Street and end at City Hall.

Staff writers Greg Moran and Karen Pearlman contributed to this report.

Previously:

Man shot, killed by El Cajon police officer

Protesters take over El Cajon streets, gather at site of fatal police shooting

Emotional crowd says Olango killed for being black, mentally ill

Family demands release of Olango shooting video

El Cajon protests continue after release of police shooting video

Olango family files new claim in police shooting

Olango’s father calls for DOJ probe of police shooting

Alfred Olango: A difficult life’s tragic end in El Cajon

El Cajon Shooting

dana.littlefield@sduniontribune.com

Twitter: @danalittlefield

UPDATES:

8:25 p.m.: This article was updated with reaction from Alfred Olango’s father and others.

2:44 p.m.: This article was updated with the district attorney’s findings.

This article was originally published at 12:35 p.m.