This post has been updated to include new information.

VAN BUREN TOWNSHIP, MI - A man has died after police shot him during a confrontation Friday, Sept. 30 in Van Buren Township, police say.

Michigan State Police Lt. Mike Shaw said troopers shot a man in the side after he got out of his truck with a gun and took a shooting stance near the entrance to Lower Huron MetroPark after a police chase from Taylor.

The man did not have identification on him, Shaw said.

At 12:58 p.m. Friday, a trooper stopped a driver for a seatbelt violation at Van Born and Telegraph roads in Taylor, Shaw said. The man drove away and led police on a chase, starting in a neighborhood and then getting on westbound I-94 to northbound 275 to Ford Road, then Cherry Hill Road and Haggerty Road.

Troopers tried to stop the truck with two precision immobilization technique maneuvers. One officer was injured during one of the PIT maneuvers, Shaw said, and will have to get stitches after seriously dislocating his thumb.

Police boxed the truck in at the entrance of Lower Huron MetroPark after the second PIT maneuver caused him to spin out, and the man got out of his truck with a 9-mm Glock handgun and ran into the treeline. At least one trooper shot at him when the man when into a firing stance, Shaw said.

Huron Valley Ambulance transported him in critical condition to St. Joseph Mercy Hospital where he later died, according to MSP.

"All he had to do was stop, he would have had contact with the trooper. The trooper may or may not have wrote him a citation. If he had a warrant or if he was suspended, they would have dealt with it and he would have been on his way," he said. "Now we've got to go tell a family that, you know, their loved one is dead because of a contact with law enforcement.

"I've got two troopers in my section that will never forget this as long as they live," Shaw continued. "I've got a trooper that's injured and is going to be off work, not providing services to the citizens of Michigan."

Two troopers were involved in the shooting and fired their guns, although right now Shaw said he doesn't know how many shots were fired or whether the suspect fired his gun.

Both were assigned to a special enforcement section motor unit; one trooper has 12 years of experience, and one has eight years of experience.

Shaw said police are working to identify the man and notify his next of kin.

Michigan State Police are continuing the investigation. Haggerty Road and East Huron River Drive were shut down around 1:45 p.m., and state police said the roads had re-opened at 7:30 p.m.

MLive reporter Logan Hansen contributed to this report.