The fatal shooting of a Ventnor man last year by the Atlantic County Emergency Response Team last was justified, state Division of Criminal Justice Director Elie Honig said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.

The Attorney General Shooting Response Team investigated the Oct. 3, 2016, fatal shooting of John Fetter III, 49, of Ventnor. Fetter was armed with a handgun following a standoff that began with a domestic violence incident.

The state investigation determined that presenting the case to a grand jury was not required because the “undisputed facts showed that the use of force by seven police officers was justified under the law,” the release states. The investigation included witness interviews, forensic analysis of the scene, an autopsy and other evidence.

Ventnor Police Chief Douglas Biagi was unavailable for comment.

Domestic fight leads to fatal Ventnor shooting VENTNOR — Authorities on Tuesday identified the man shot and killed by police during a stand…

The investigation revealed Fetter was fatally shot by members of the Atlantic County Emergency Response Team and other local police officers about 7:40 p.m. outside a house on the 700 block of North Burghley Avenue, where he lived with his parents.

The events leading to the shooting began at 6:22 p.m., when Fetter’s mother called 911 to report that Fetter was drunk, fighting with his father and armed with a long gun. When two officers from the Ventnor Police Department arrived at the two-story house, Fetter’s father, who was outside, reported that Fetter, who was still inside with his mother, was armed with a shotgun and had fired two shots inside the house. As Fetter’s mother exited, another shotgun blast was heard inside the house and the mother fell down the front porch steps. Fetter’s father picked up his wife while an officer provided cover. The parents were removed from danger.

Two Ventnor officers positioned their SUVs in the street in front of Fetter’s house, and an officer from the Longport Police Department arrived to assist. Fetter’s father was handcuffed and removed further down the street because, despite orders to stay back, he continued to approach the SUVs. The officers repeatedly called out to Fetter, telling him to come out unarmed. However, about 6:45 p.m., Fetter fired his shotgun out of an upstairs window toward the officers. One officer returned fire, firing two rounds from a rifle through the window.

Reward offered in Atlantic City animal cruelty case ATLANTIC CITY — A cat advocacy group as well as PETA are both offering a $5,000 reward to an…

Fetter shouted that he wanted to talk to a specific officer from the Ventnor police who had acted as a mediator during previous domestic violence incidents involving Fetter’s family. That officer arrived and established phone communication with Fetter, but he was unable to convince Fetter to surrender peacefully. Fetter said he wanted to die and knew the SWAT team was coming. He said if he could not “do it,” then “you guys will have to do it,” the release states.

Members of the Atlantic County Emergency Response Team arrived with a Bearcat armored truck. As the SWAT team positioned the truck near the SUVs so team members could safely exit the vehicle, Fetter pointed a gun out of the living room window of the home.

Witness statements differed as to whether Fetter fired the gun. Two officers believed he did. A third officer, the one who previously fired at Fetter, reported he heard one of the officers say “gun.” That third officer fired two rounds from his rifle at Fetter. Fetter reportedly yelled, “You missed me.”

Wanted man arrested on multiple drug charges after search of West A.C. motel room EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP — A search of a West Atlantic City motel room resulted in the arrest of …

The SWAT members exited the Bearcat, and one officer from the SWAT team indicated he fired a shot at Fetter when Fetter again appeared at a window and pointed a gun toward him. Fetter subsequently emerged from the front door, holding a black .22-caliber handgun, pointed down in front of his body. Almost all of the officers immediately began shouting “Drop the gun.” Fetter instead raised the handgun and pointed it at the officers. Seven officers then fired their weapons at Fetter.

The officers stopped firing after Fetter fell to the ground. Backup SWAT officers soon arrived and relieved the officers who were involved in the shooting. The backup officers approached Fetter, rendered first aid and secured the house.

Fetter was pronounced dead at the scene once EMTs arrived.

Stolen car hits woman during police chase, teen arrested PLEASANTVILLE — A 17-year-old boy led police on a chase through Pleasantville and Atlantic C…

An autopsy revealed a total of 10 gunshot wounds to Fetter’s body. One shot penetrated Fetter’s chest and did substantial damage to his lungs and heart. The remaining shots were to his extremities and buttocks and came from various angles. Toxicology results showed Fetter’s blood-alcohol content was 0.258 percent, more than three times the legal limit.

“The facts and circumstances reasonably led the officers to believe their actions were immediately necessary to protect themselves and their fellow officers,” the release states. “An officer may use deadly force in New Jersey when the officer reasonably believes it is immediately necessary to protect the officer or another person from imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm.”

The response team is made up of deputy attorneys general and detectives of the Division of Criminal Justice, as well as detectives of the State Police Homicide Unit, all of whom operate independently of their usual chain of command and report directly to the director of the Division of Criminal Justice or a designee.