STATESBORO, Ga. (WSAV) – Statesboro Police Department has requested the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) to investigate an officer involved shooting that occurred in the early morning of Tuesday, October 4 around 1:00 a.m.

According to Statesboro authorities, officers with the Statesboro PD responded to an armed robbery/home invasion at Statesboro Place Circle. Three suspects, reportedly, entered the home and held the victims at gunpoint.

Officials go on to say that officers searched for and arrested one suspect near the scene, a second suspect was found but was able to escape arrest. Officers fired a taser, unsuccessfully, during the attempted arrest.

The second suspect was located near the back of another home in the area and the officer reported that the second suspect had a gun and shots were fired during the encounter.

The second suspect suffered a fatal gunshot wound.

GBI agents are now interviewing witnesses and processing the scene. An autopsy will be performed later today at the GBI Crime Lab in Savannah, according to police reports.

A third suspect is still on the loose and being sought by Statesboro PD.

Anyone with any information is asked to call 912-764-9911.

The GBI will continue its independent investigation to determine what occurred during the incident. When the investigation is complete, it will be turned over to the District Attorney’s Office for review.

Management at Campus Evolution Villages did release the following statement to residents,

“We want to make you aware of a situation that occurred early Tuesday morning. There was robbery, which resulted in an officer-related shooting of the suspect. Right now, our focus is on being there for the victims of the armed robbery.We have been working with area law enforcement to help them in their ongoing investigation.

We take the situation very seriously and are cooperating every way we can; this is an important opportunity to remind everyone of routine safety procedures we should follow every day:

• We encouraged you to secure your property such as keeping doors locked.

• Only let invited guests into your apartment. This includes knowing your and your roommates’ guests.

• If you see something suspicious, call 911 before you call the office.”