Melissa Gregory

mgregory@thetowntalk.com, (318) 792-1807

The suspect in a fatal shooting died Friday afternoon after he exited a building firing a gun he pointed at law enforcement officers he'd kept at bay for several hours, according to the Rapides Parish Sheriff's Office.

Louisiana State Police now is leading the investigation into the officer-involved shooting that killed suspect Christopher Darnell Shackleford, 28. He was a suspect in a Thursday night shooting case being investigated by the Alexandria Police Department.

That shooting happened around 9 p.m. Thursday in the 1400 block of Fenner Street. The victim, 32-year-old Keldric Cheney, was taken to a local hospital in a private vehicle, but was pronounced dead at the hospital.

Police didn't release any other details about Cheney's death or how they determined that Shackleford, who had a prior violent criminal record in Rapides Parish, was a suspect in the Thursday shooting. But he holed up inside the England Apartments on Dublin Road, which is off La. Highway 1, when members of the U.S. Marshals Violent Offender Task Force attempted to take him into custody.

Shots reportedly were fired when marshals approached, although the spokesman for the Alexandria department, Wade Bourgeois, told media around 2:30 p.m. that the report couldn't immediately be confirmed.

Police from multiple agencies responded to the area of Kelleyland subdivision, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Rapides Parish Sheriff's Office.

As the standoff lingered, more officers and SWAT team members arrived. The sheriff's office brought its mobile command unit to the scene, and the entrances to Cabana Mobile Estates on Airbase Road and La. 1 were blocked off by police units.

Acadian Ambulance, the Alexandria Fire Department and Rapides Fire District #2 were on the staged nearby, as well.

Just before 6 p.m., the sheriff's office announced that Shackleford was dead.

The heavy police presence in the neighborhood drew a crowd of about 30 people who stayed throughout the incident at a nearby convenience store at the corner of Ulster Street and La. 1. People who lived on Dublin Road and tried to return home during the standoff were turned away.

Later, a group of four women approached a deputy stationed at the entrance to Dublin Road. One woman identified herself as the suspect's aunt, saying she wanted to try talking to Shackleford.

"He'll listen to me," she said.

However, she was told that Shackleford's brother already was trying to talk to him.

Shackleford did have a criminal record in Rapides Parish, first being charged in April 2007 with possession of marijuana, having an expired motor vehicle inspection sticker, switching license plates and not having insurance.

He forfeited his bond twice when he failed to show up for court dates and was sentenced to two days in parish jail on a contempt charge. He got credit for time served, however. In January 2008, all of those charges were dropped.

In April 2009, he was arrested on charges of possession of marijuana with intent to distribute and possession of codeine syrup, a controlled dangerous substance V. He pleaded guilty in October that year to the possession of marijuana with intent charge, while the other charge was dropped.

In that case, Shackleford had 18 pounds of marijuana delivered to him at a Ball apartment where he was staying, according to a story from The Town Talk archives.

Shackleford was sentenced in that case to five years with the Louisiana Department of Corrections, but also was recommended for a rehabilitation program.

Then, in September 2011, he was charged with felony possession of a stolen firearm. In May 2012, that charge was lowered to illegal use of a weapon, which still was a felon.

A Town Talk article from September 2011 reports that Shackleford had been charged with aggravated assault with a firearm, being a felon in possession of a firearm, illegal possession of a stolen firearm and illegal use of a weapon after he fired at a motorist on Dartmouth Street.

He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to one year at hard labor with the Department of Corrections. While it was designated a crime of violence, he was given credit for time service. Rapides Parish Clerk of Court records don't specify exactly how much time, if any, he served after being sentenced.