(Source: WAFF Staff)

Eddie Collins (Source: Lee County, Florida Sheriff)

(Source: WAFF Staff)

(Source: WAFF Staff)

KILLEN, AL (WAFF) - Authorities confirm that both the suspect and woman from Killen's motel standoff have died after police fired at their room.

The almost 32-hour standoff came to end shortly before 2 p.m. Friday when police shot at the suspect inside Super 8 Motel in Killen off U.S. 72 near Shoals Creek. The suspect was inside the hotel room with a woman.

Authorities have identified the suspect as Eddie Collins. The woman inside of the room with him was identified as Venita Keen.

Just after 1 p.m. Friday, crews on the scene heard an explosion and gunshots. Police say officers tried to reach the room without injuring either person inside, but were forced to fire their weapons.

Collins was pronounced dead at the scene. Keen was transported to a local hospital where she was pronounced dead shortly after.

Police believe it was their gunfire that killed Collins. It is not yet clear who fatally shot Keen, but Lauderdale County Sheriff Rick Singleton said there is a possibility that Collins shot Keen before firing at officers.

It is also not yet known if she was in there willingly.

The criminal investigation into the standoff will now begin. The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency has taken over the investigation.

The standoff began at about 6 a.m. Thursday when U.S. Marshals and Lauderdale County deputies went to the motel to serve a warrant on Collins. Lauderdale County Chief Deputy Richard Richey said the officers identified themselves, and the suspect fired a shot through the door.

Multiple agencies came in to assist in the lengthy standoff, including Florence police, Huntsville police, and the Madison County Sheriff's Office.

According to law enforcement, Collins tried to escape through the backdoor. Richey said he then fired several shots at the officers, went back inside and locked the door. He said those gunshots warranted an attempted murder charge for firing at the officers.

Police remained in contact with Collins via phone throughout the standoff but couldn't get him to surrender.

Investigators say Collin's was a fugitive from Florida. He was wanted for firing a missile or weapon into a vehicle or dwelling and four counts of aggregated assault with a deadly weapon.

Local authorities do not know if he had any connections in the area but say he was living inside of one of the rooms at the Super 8.

All of the motel guests were evacuated after the standoff started. Thirty of the 34 rooms were occupied Thursday morning.

The power was later cut.

Brooks High School was put on a soft lockdown Thursday as a result of the situation.

Copyright 2016 WAFF. All rights reserved.