BrieAnna J Frank, and Jerod MacDonald-Evoy

The Republic | azcentral.com

Authorities say a man who was shot and killed Sunday by a state trooper after a 25-mile chase had exited his vehicle and raised a gun at the lawman just before his death.

Phoenix police on Thursday publicly identified the man as 40-year-old Luis Michael Hoff and said an investigation revealed the man had recently become mentally unstable and was a danger to himself and others.

An Arizona Department of Public Safety trooper had tried to pull over Hoff, who was speeding and driving erratically near Loop 101 and Elliott Road on the Chandler/Tempe border late Sunday night, according to a Phoenix police statement.

Instead of stopping, police say, Hoff led troopers on a chase that, at times, reached speeds of more than 100 mph.

Prior to the incident, Hoff posted frequently to social media under the name "Mike Hoff" about a court case in which he felt he was framed and poorly represented.

Hoff claimed the FBI, along with other officials, had worked to frame him and conspired to take away his daughter during a custody battle in California. Hoff, who claimed Sierra Vista as his hometown, was last living in Colorado after he said law enforcement in California had been following and targeting him, according to his social-media posts.

On a Facebook post Sept. 25, Hoff stated, "I will be going to get my child that has been taken by criminal means. ... I will be broadcasting streaming video of my murder to draw awareness to the criminal government." He stated he would attempt this on Oct. 30.

Hoff had reached out to lawyers on Facebook and urged them to take his case, claiming his daughter had been kidnapped and he was offering a $100,000 reward.

Kristine Cummings, one of those lawyers, said she had received a warning that Hoff was making threats online and at the Attorney General's Office in Phoenix.

Hoff was on the radar of several law-enforcement agencies, including the FBI and the Sacramento Sheriff's Office, said Cummings.

"He had weapons," Cummings said over the phone, adding that they had been taken away from him for a period of time but she was unsure if he had re-obtained them.

Cummings and her client, Hoff's ex-wife, had been monitoring his movement on social media due to threats he had made to take his daughter back and live stream his "murder."

"We think he was living out of his car."

The day of his death, Hoff posted six videos to YouTube under the username "assertive empath" that showed him at the U.S. Attorney's Office in Phoenix attempting to get the office to investigate the FBI.

Phoenix-area police shootings in 2016

That night, Phoenix police said, troopers attempted to stop Hoff with tire-deflation devices near Loop 101 and Scottsdale Road, but he was still able to flee.

Hoff exited the freeway at 64th Street and then intentionally drove toward a trooper who was outside his vehicle attempting to deploy tire-deflation devices, police said.

The 25-year-old trooper jumped out of the way and suffered minor injuries. Police said Hoff missed striking the trooper by less than one foot.

He struck additional tire deflation devices and re-entered the freeway, this time swerving at a DPS trooper’s vehicle near Loop 101 and Talking Stick Way.

Additional DPS vehicles surrounded Hoff’s vehicle, at which point police say he got out of the car with a gun in his hand and raised it at a trooper.

The 34-year-old trooper with four years on the job fired his duty weapon at Hoff, striking him multiple times. Police said troopers provided first aid and CPR.

Hoff died at the scene.