UPDATE 10/10/16 @ 6:15 p.m.

DUNBAR, W. Va. (WSAZ) -- Dunbar Police have released the names of the two men involved in an early morning shooting.

According to police, Jose Ventura Roman-Capdeville and Joseph Michael Covert were fighting when Roman fired shots at Covert.

Police say the fight broke out at a home along the 400 block of Westmoreland Drive around 1:30 a.m. Monday.

Roman fired several rounds into the car Covert was riding in, hitting the Covert in the head.

Police say another person was in the car with Covert and drove him to the Dunbar Fire Department where medics arrived and took him to the hospital.

When police came to the home on Westmoreland Drive, they noticed Roman standing on the porch with a gun. After repeated requests for Roman to drop the gun, he declined, and shot and killed himself.

Police say they believe the incident occurred because of a domestic-type situation involving the suspect's girlfriend and the two men.

A neighbor who did not want to be identified described Jose as a sweetheart.

"It's just really sad. You see somebody one minute, and then the next minute they're gone," the neighbor said with tears in her eyes.

Another neighbor who lives across the street says he was playing Xbox when the shooting happened.

"I looked out the window and noticed my neighbor shooting some dude in a truck," Terry Brown said. "I haven't been able to sleep at all. I tried to but I couldn't."

"What bothers me the most is the child. He's only 4 years old and he's not going to have his daddy," another neighbor said.

Police say Covert's injuries are not life-threatening and he is expected to be OK.

UPDATE 10/10/16 @ 6 p.m.

DUNBAR, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- The name of the men involved in a shooting Monday morning have been released.

Police say Jose Ventura Roman-Capedville shot and killed himself after an incident with Joseph Covert.

Dunbar Police say a fight broke out between the two men at a home along the 400 block of Westmoreland Drive around 1:30 a.m.

Police say the fight happened because of a domestic situation.

Police say Roman-Capdeville fired several rounds into the car Covert was riding in, hitting the him in the head. Covert left the scene and was later taken to the hospital for non-life-threatening injuries.

When police came to the home on Westmoreland Drive, they noticed Roman-Capdeville standing on the porch with a gun. After repeated requests for him to drop the gun, he declined, and shot and killed himself.

Police say the he did not say anything before turning the gun on himself.

ORIGINAL STORY 10/10/16

DUNBAR, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- One man is dead and another injured after two separate shootings in Dunbar early Monday morning.

Dunbar Police say a fight broke out between two men at a home along the 400 block of Westmoreland Drive around 1:30 a.m.

The shooting suspect fired several rounds into the car the other man was riding in, hitting the victim in the head. The victim left the scene and was later taken to the hospital for non-life-threatening injuries.

When police came to the home on Westmoreland Drive, they noticed the shooter standing on the porch with a gun. After repeated requests for the the man to drop the gun, he declined, and shot and killed himself.

Police say the shooter did not say anything before turning the gun on himself.

The victim and the shooter's name are not being released at this time.

Keep clicking on WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.