A Bloomington man who crashed Monday while fleeing police and the Burnsville woman he killed in the collision have been positively identified.

Officials say Matthew John Vogel, 22, was driving a Chevrolet Astro minivan pursued by Burnsville and Apple Valley police about 8:25 p.m. Monday when he crashed into a Toyota SUV driven by Aida Leticia Sevilla Ocampo, 39, in Burnsville.

Ocampo died at the scene from the collision impact, according to the Hennepin County medical examiner’s office.

Vogel’s minivan careened off Ocampo’s SUV and struck two power poles, then caught fire when power lines came down on top of it. The medical examiner’s office was still working Wednesday to determine exactly what caused his death.

The Minnesota State Patrol continues to investigate. The Apple Valley police officers involved in the pursuit were Sgt. Jason Weishaar and officers Cody Yard and Cory Christianson, according to the State Patrol. The Burnsville police officers were Sgt. Steve Stoler and officer Brian Hasselman.

According to Apple Valley police, an officer spotted the minivan being driven aggressively and determined that it was reported involved in a hit-and-run crash about 10 minutes earlier in Savage. The pursuit began at 8:19 p.m. in Apple Valley and ended about six minutes later with the fatal crash on Dakota County Road 5 near 131st Street in Burnsville.

Apple Valley Police Chief Jon Rechtzigel and Burnsville Police Chief Eric Gieseke both said they believe their officers were following department policy for vehicle pursuits.

Col. Matt Langer, chief of the State Patrol, said it appeared the pursuing squads were “quite a distance behind” Vogel’s minivan when it struck Ocampo.

“These are always tragic situations, and our hearts go out to the families that are involved,” Langer said at a Tuesday news conference “Once again, we see the danger of drivers making bad choices.”

Ocampo lived just a few blocks from the crash site, according to the medical examiner’s office. She is survived by a husband and five children, according to friends who are raising money through a GoFundMe.com account to send her body back to her home country of Honduras.

Vogel had numerous criminal convictions on his Minnesota record, including for violating domestic abuse no-contact orders, drug possession, speeding and assaulting a police officer.