Advertisement DA: Santa Cruz officer who shot Sean Arlt will not be charged Share Copy Link Copy

A Santa Cruz police officer who fatally shot 32-year-old Sean Smith Arlt will not face criminal charges and was cleared of wrongdoing, Santa Cruz County District Attorney Jeff Rosell announced Thursday. The officer who shot Arlt was officer Erik Bailey, Rosell said. Bailey was sworn into the Santa Cruz Police Department in May 2015. The District Attorney's Office was asked by the SCPD to lead an independent investigation into the October 16, 2016 officer-involved shooting to determine if Bailey committed a crime. WATCH: DASH CAM VIDEO (Warning: Graphic content) Rosell said Bailey was legally justified in using lethal force because Arlt was wielding a rake as a weapon and moving toward him in an aggressive manner. On Oct. 16 police were called to a house on Chace Street because a 911 caller reported that a man outside was trying to break into the house, pounding on the front and back doors, and yelling that he wanted to kill everyone inside. READ MORE: Fallen Santa Cruz officer's son was at OIS scene "It's the crazy kid from next door. He has psychological problems," the 911 caller told a dispatcher. The shooting happened outside the house within three minutes of four officers arriving. Rosell said Arlt was "fixated" on Bailey and was only 10 feet away when the officer opened fire. "The officer was legally in a position to exercise the use of force that he did," Rosell said. A coroner determined Arlt died from gunshot wounds to the head and chest. His family said police were "well aware" that Arlt suffered from a mental illness. His family has not disclosed what mental illness he struggled with. "On October 16th, the police were well aware that Sean was struggling with mental health issues," the family wrote in a statement. "The information that has been released so far is not telling the whole story. We are hopeful that with a more independent investigation, the entire truth will come out and justice will be done." The narrative given by Rosell Thursday mirrored the sequence of events described by Santa Cruz Police Department officers. There were no discrepancies between facts disclosed by police in the hours following the shooting, from facts released by the District Attorney at the conclusion of a 4-month investigation. During a community forum held at Peace United Church in November, City Council member Micah Posner blamed police for Arlt’s death. "One of the officers made a mistake. I’m guessing it was an honest mistake, but the hard thing about being a police officer that some mistakes have really bad repercussions," Posner said. Arlt's family plans to file a civil lawsuit against the SCPD. Toxicology tests found "Ethanol, Cotinine, Bupropion, and THC" in Arlt's body at the time of his death, according to the coroner. Ethanol is commonly known as alcohol, THC is marijuana, Cotinine is nicotine, and Bupropion is a prescription antidepressant drug. Arlt's blood alcohol level was 0.047, which is equivalent to two drinks for a person of his weight and height. The only video that exists of the shooting was recorded by a patrol car's dash cam. The officers were not wearing body cameras. The dash cam video is grainy because the shooting happened during a rainstorm in the middle of the night. Arlt was alive for at least 10 minutes after he was shot, and Clayton's audio device recorded Arlt moaning in agony while officers struggled to save him without help from paramedics. Firefighter paramedics took eight minutes to arrive. Five days before Arlt was killed, he was taken away by police from the same Chace Street house while acting erratically. Officers used force to detain Arlt and he was placed on a psychiatric hold. Arlt's troubling behavior included when he described two pens as "my keys to heaven," Police Chief Kevin Vogel said. Arlt was a Santa Cruz native and attended Santa Cruz High School. He graduated from Sonoma State University with a degree in psychology and had a 4-year-old son. His family said he enjoyed surfing, writing poetry, music, and math. "This event has been a tragedy for our entire community. An event like this leaves emotional scars," Vogel said. READ MORE: Toxicology results for Sean Arlt, Luke Smith released READ MORE: Man fatally shot by Santa Cruz police identified INCIDENT TIMELINE Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016 9:20 PM – Officers dispatched to “5150” (mental health crisis) call from Arlt's family member on the 200 block Chace Street regarding Sean Arlt. Arlt was transported from home to a Santa Cruz County Mental Health Facility for a 72-hour hold. He was released the morning of Wednesday, Oct. 12. Sunday, Oct. 16, 2016 3:30 AM – 911 call received from a resident on the 200 block Chace Street. 3:36 – Second 911 call received from the same resident on the 200 block Chace Street. 3:39 – Three Santa Cruz Police officers and one Sergeant arrived on scene. 3:41 – Less-than-lethal force used. 3:41 – Taser deployment by Officer Adam Baker 3:41 – Taser deployment by Officer Adam Baker 3:42 – Taser deployment by Sgt. Bill Clayton 3:42 – Two shots fired by Officer Erik Bailey 3:42 – SCPD officers render medical aid to Arlt. Paramedics were called, but they did not arrive for nearly 10 minutes. Arlt was still alive during this time. 4:00 – Arlt was declared dead at the scene.