The Parkersburg Police Department are investigating a homicide that led to a double suicide Wednesday morning.

According to a press release from Parkersburg Police Chief Joseph Martin, this incident began around 8:50 a.m. Monday when Parkersburg Police Department were called to 1015 East 12th Street after being called to investigate a shooting.

Officers arrived and located a male subject with an apparent gunshot wound to his head. EMS was also on scene and took this victim to CCMC to be treated.

The male victim died as a result of his injuries a short time later.

An investigation by detectives and officers concluded that Jason Edward Drain, 31, from Parkersburg, was the shooter and a known associate of the victim, Brian Duanne Shann 38, also from Parkersburg.

Drain arrived at the residence Monday morning and while the two were having a conversation, Drain brandished a semi automatic pistol and shot Shann in the head. Drain immediately left the residence after taking cash from inside the home.

Detectives were able to locate the suspect’s vehicle in the area of Neal Street and 9th Avenue in a large gravel parking lot around noon.

Several detectives and officers established a perimeter around this vehicle and waited for Drain to return to his vehicle. At approximately 2:15 p.m., Drain and a female identified as Cassandra Michelle Bailey 28 of Parkersburg, were observed walking to the parked vehicle.

Detectives approached the two as they entered the truck and identified themselves as law enforcment. At that time, Drain immediately pulled a semi automatic pistol and pointed the weapon to his own head. Detectives attempted to encourage Drain to put his firearm down and surrender. After several commands to surrender, Drain shot himself while still inside the vehicle. Ms. Bailey immediately picked up the same pistol and shot herself as well.

Both individuals were transported to CCMC and later died as a result of the gunshot wounds.

The investigation remains open at this time as evidence will be sent to the state laboratory for examination.