Willoughby police shooting.jpeg

The Lake County Prosecutor's Office determined a Willoughby police officer was justified when he shot and killed a man Oct. 19, 2016 outside a Lowe's Home Improvement store.

(Courtney Astolfi, cleveland.com)

WILLOUGHBY, Ohio - Lake County Prosecutor Charles Coulson ruled that a Willoughby police officer had "more than sufficient grounds" to shoot and kill a man last year outside a home improvement store.

The officer who shot Frank J. Sandor on Oct. 19, 2016 outside a Lowe's Home Improvement had reason to believe he or others might be in danger, Coulson wrote in a March 30 ruling in which he deemed the shooting justified.

"The evidence reveals that the conduct of Frank J. Sandor . . . established more than sufficient grounds for the police officer involved to have used deadly force," Coulson said. "In fact, under the circumstances the officer involved had a reasonable and honest belief that he and/or others were in immediate danger of death or serious bodily harm."

The Willoughby Police Department has declined to name the officer who shot Sandor and another officer who used a stun gun on Sandor prior to the shooting. Coulson determined the officers' actions were justified, and the police department's administrative review found that both officers followed use-of-force policies and procedures, police said Tuesday in a news release.

Lowe's security video showed that Sandor, who was driving a stolen car, backed into one police officer's motorcycle during an encounter in the store's parking lot. Sandor then drove into a second officer's leg, and that officer shot Sandor three times in the head and chest, the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation determined.

Sandor, 38, of Cleveland, was driving a stolen 2006 Pontiac Grand Prix during the encounter that ended in his death, investigators said.

Sandor's car idled during the confrontation, and one officer used a stun gun to subdue him, the report says. The second officer drew his gun and began to walk around the front of the car, at which point Sandor put the car in gear and started to drive toward the officer, investigators said.

The Lowe's security video showed that the officer fired the shots in a 1.06-second period after he heard the car's tires squealing, the BCI report says.

"I wanted to stop this guy from running me over," the officer told BCI investigators after the shooting.

Sandor continued to drive away until he crashed the car across the street, the report says. Sandor died after paramedics took him to a local hospital.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation completed its investigation into the shooting Feb. 21. Coulson then reviewed the reports before making his ruling, police said.

"We appreciate everyone's patience on the matter, out of respect for the officers involved and for the sympathies towards the family involved," the police department said in a news release. "This was a tragic event for everyone."

Investigators later determined that Sandor was involved in a retail theft scheme that involved stealing items from area businesses. Sandor would then hire homeless people he found near The City Mission shelter in Cleveland to return the items without receipts, according to an Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation report.

A Cleveland man, who is homeless, told investigators that Sandor offered him $5 if he would return a bag of items to Lowe's the day the officer shot Sandor, according to an investigative report.

A Lowe's loss prevention officer called 911 because he recognized the Pontiac Grand Prix as a car connected to retail thefts. The officers involved in the shooting found Sandor sitting in the Pontiac in the Lowe's parking lot.

Sandor provided a fake name and social security number to the officers, the report says.

Investigators searched the Pontiac after the shooting and found bags of unopened clothing, which appeared to be stolen. The officers also found 10 license plates in the car, according to the report.

Investigators also found nine needles in the car. Toxicology tests performed after Sandor's death showed fentanyl, heroin and morphine in his system, the Lake County Coroner's Office said.

Text messages found Sandor's cellphone revealed links to drug use, theft and burglary, and the phone's internet searches included "Top 10 Ways to Steal a Car" and "crime statistics top ways robbery solved," the investigative report says.

If you'd like to comment on this story, visit Tuesday's crime and courts comments section.

cleveland.com is a partner of the Greater Cleveland Food Bank. Every dollar buys four meals for the hungry. Click here to donate.