Dan Scanlan

It started with a pre-dawn shotgun blast that shattered a window to gain entry into the home of his ex-girlfriend's family on Shims Road.

It ended with a police officer's two .9mm shots that killed 29-year-old Jacob Shawn Depetris after he threatened the mother and father, then twice held a shotgun to the woman's head and pulled the trigger. It misfired both times.

Detailing the chaotic scene just before 6 a.m. as Depetris waved the shotgun and a bottle of Jack Daniels demanding to see his ex-girlfriend, Jacksonville Undersheriff Pat Ivey told reporters at a friday meeting that two factors saved a lot of lives - veteran officer Howard M. Smith and the firearm malfunctioning after the first blast.

Related:Suspect with shotgun shot and killed by police in domestic home invasion

"Every attempted shot after that, for some reason, his weapon did not work," Ivey said. "He had a fully functioning, proven weapon that would fire, shooting into the home. Then for some reason, divine intervention or whatever you want to call it, his weapon would not fire again."

Depetris used the shotgun to blast a hole in a side door's window at the Oceanway-area property, then reached in and unlocked the door. Depetris wanted to see his ex-girlfriend and mother of their child and threatened to shoot the couple, identified as 47-year-old Kevin Palmer Watts and 49-year-old Margaret Rose Bryant.

But their daughter wasn't there, and they scrambled into their bedroom locking the door. Depetris tried to get in, yelling that "A door's not going to stop me, a door's not going to keep me out," Ivey said.

Watts tried to load his own rifle but was unable to as Bryant fled into the bathroom. Depetris kicked in the bedroom door, and Watts was able to escape. Depetris then kicked in the bathroom door and grabbed Bryant as she hid in the shower.

"He approached her and put the shotgun to her head and pulled the trigger," Ivey said. "The shotgun did not discharge."

Depetris dragged Bryant into the living room, demanding that she call Watts back inside, saying "you guys are going to die," Ivey said. The gunman dragged her outside and demanded she yell for Watts again, Ivey said.

As Bryant pleaded with Depetris, he held the shotgun to her head and tried to shoot her again. But the shotgun misfired again.

When contacted Friday, Bryant did not want to talk about the ordeal.

Another family member lived in a second house on the property and watched Bryant being threatened by Depetris as he juggled the whiskey bottle as well as the shotgun, Ivey said. She called police, as did Watts, then told the 911 operator that she saw the officer drive up the driveway the two homes shared.

Smith, a 27-year veteran, targeted Depetris with his marked police car's spotlight and repeatedly told him to drop the shotgun. Witnesses said Depetris' response to the commands was, "I don't think so," Ivey said. When he waved the gun around more, then raised it toward the officer, Smith shot twice at him.

Depetris, who went to First Coast High School and lived five miles from his former girlfriend's house, was shot in the torso and fell to the ground. Smith ran up and kicked the shotgun away as another officer arrived and attempted first aid, Ivey said.

City paramedics declared Depetris dead. Ivey said it took about seven minutes for Smith to get to the scene.

The undersheriff said Bryant and Watts were having domestic issues with Depetris but couldn't confirm that the gunman had told friends that he was going to do something about it and make police take his life. But in a Sept. 30 posting on his Facebook page, Depetris is seen holding his daughter as he writes that he doesn't know "what kind of woman wouldn't want us as her family but good luck to her finding something more special."

"I love my little girl to death and there's nothing I wouldn't do for her," he posted. "I never wanted her to grow up in a broken home… It just hurts me when she wonders why mommy isn't out having fun with us riding around in daddy's truck laughing and singing to the radio."

There had been previous police calls to the house, but nothing to this level, Ivey said. One of them referred to a problem with a boyfriend, but it is unknown if that was Depetris, he added.

Depetris had a criminal record including 2010 arrests in Jacksonville for violation of parole and driving under the influence, as well as a 2007 charge of trespassing and 2006 charges of fleeing an officer, according to court records. Additionally he was arrested as a fugitive on a Nassau County warrant for probation violation related to an auto theft charge in mid-2010. He also had criminal issues in Georgia and Colorado, Ivey said.

Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549