LAS VEGAS (AP) — The Nevada Highway Patrol released more details about the chain of events that led to a trooper fatally shooting a carjacking suspect after a chase last week from Las Vegas to Henderson.

Nevada Highway Patrol Chief Dennis Osborne held a news conference on Tuesday to share surveillance video of the incident that happened last Wednesday morning. Twenty-eight-year-old Javier Munoz, of Glendale, Arizona was shot once in the abdomen and died of his injury at Sunrise Hospital the next day.

Authorities say Munoz had been in Las Vegas for about two days and appeared to be waiting for a victim when he approached a woman at a downtown Las Vegas convenience store. The two struggled before he gained control of her Toyota Scion and dragged her, injuring her hand before fleeing the scene.

He led troopers on a chase along the U.S. 95 that reached 100 mph before they abandoned their pursuit, authorities said. The Scion’s tire blew and Munoz headed into a car dealership in Henderson.

There, he pulled an older man from his Cadillac and got into the vehicle in a service bay. Trooper David Dudley tried to get Munoz out of the vehicle when the suspect backed it up quickly and narrowly missed hitting a dealership employee.

Dudley, 57, shot once and then gave medical aid to Munoz. He’s been placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation.

Osborne said authorities didn’t find a weapon with Munoz, although the Cadillac he had taken was a hazard.

“That vehicle is a 4,500-pound deadly weapon, especially when drove in a reckless manner in a total disregard for the safety of the public around them,” he said.

Osborne said blood was drawn for toxicology tests, but it’s not yet known if Munoz was under the influence at the time.

Munoz had a criminal history in Arizona that included robbery, kidnapping and fleeing law enforcement. He served two prison terms and was most recently released in December 2015.

The woman who was initially carjacked was treated at a hospital and released, said Osborne. He said it didn’t appear the second victim was injured.