A man who was holding a knife while walking across a street east of downtown was fatally shot by two police officers Friday afternoon after he reportedly didn’t listen to their commands to drop the weapon.

Police received multiple calls about the man— who was described as 58 years old and white — about 4:40 p.m. Callers told police he had a knife in the area of Utica Avenue and Second Street, police spokesman Leland Ashley said.

Before officers arrived, the man reportedly had confronted two people attempting to sell a car near the intersection, Ashley said.

The first officer who arrived approached the man from the south. That officer asked the man to drop the knife. Another officer arrived from the north and also told him to drop the knife. Ashley said the man refused both officers’ commands.

From there, the officers deployed their Tasers at the man multiple times. He reportedly still “aggressed” at officers after that, prompting both to shot the man multiple times, Ashley said.

It wasn’t clear Friday night how many times Tasers were deployed or how many shots were fired, Ashley said.

After the shooting, the man’s belongings were strewn across the road near the median where he was shot, just south of the Interstate 244 bridge.

An ambulance took the man from the scene to St. John Medical Center, where he was later pronounced dead.

Deryl Keifer and Lewis Cobb were eating at the McDonald’s near the scene when the man was shot. The two said they’d seen the man regularly over the years at that McDonald’s. They said he’d never harmed anyone and normally just tried to get money for food.

“He just sits up there and hangs out,” Cobb said.

Both believe the man was drunk when officers confronted him, and they don’t think he should have been shot.

Describing what they saw from the restaurant, speaking in present tense, Cobb said: “He doesn’t pull (the knife) out on anybody. He just pulls it out of his pocket.”

Ashley said investigators hadn’t determined whether the man was intoxicated. He didn’t know what type of knife the man was wielding.

From Keifer’s vantage point, he said, it appeared that the man was walking away from police when he was hit by a Taser and then shot.

When asked to respond to witness statements that the man was shot in the back, Ashley said: “I do not know where he was shot. The information I have at this time is that he was aggressing one of the officers and both officers fired.”

Neither Keifer nor Cobb thinks police should have shot the man because they didn’t think he was a threat to anyone. He was just drunk and had a knife, they said.

The two officers involved in the shooting have been placed on routine administrative leave as the Police Department conducts an internal investigation, Ashley said. Their names weren’t released Friday night.

Ashley said patrol vehicle dash-camera video might have captured the shooting.

The shooting is Tulsa’s sixth fatal officer-involved shooting this year and the second this week. A police sniper shot an armed home-invasion suspect who was holding a 2-year-old girl hostage on Tuesday.

That shooting came just over a month after Officer Betty Shelby fatally shot Terence Crutcher, an unarmed black man. She has since been charged with first-degree manslaughter in his death.