This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

ST. LOUIS (KTVI) – Authorities have identified a 19-year-old who died late Monday evening following a police pursuit across St. Louis city and county that culminated in an officer-involved shooting.

According to police, a county police officer spotted a vehicle wanted from a carjacking in Affton. A pursuit was initiated by the officer that eventually included law enforcement officers from St. Louis City, Jennings, and Ferguson.

The vehicle in question, a 2003 Mercedes Benz, was stolen in a carjacking from the 5100 block of Waldo Avenue Monday morning at 2 a.m., when two armed subjects wearing mask and gloves stole the car from a resident.

During the course of the police chase, an SLMPD SUV crashed into a pedestrian car at the intersection of Lillian and Union. Two officers and two civilians suffered non-life threatening injuries in that accident

The suspect crashed the Mercedes in the 4100 block of Lee Avenue and four subjects got out. One of the suspects was wearing a mask and gloves, and armed with a handgun. That person pointed the gun at a police officer, who fired several shots. The armed individual, identified as Aaron Ballard, died at the scene. The other three people in the stolen vehicle escaped on foot.

Just three months ago, the Missouri State Highway Patrol arrested and charged Ballard in Callaway County in connection on a multiple felony and misdemeanor indictment.

According to a probable cause statement submitted by state police, a trooper pulled over a GMC Sanoma after receiving reports of erratic driving on westbound Interstate 70 around mile marker 188 and shots being fired from the vehicle. Ballard was one of two men inside the vehicle.

The trooper found two pistols (one of which had been stolen), less than 35 grams of marijuana, 4 Oxycodone pills, 5 capsules containing heroin, two counterfeit $100 bills, and a pair of debit cards that didn’t belong to either man in the vehicle.

Ballard was charged with misdemeanor counterfeiting and possession of counterfeit money, misdemeanor marijuana possession, felony possession of marijuana, felony possession of heroin, felony unlawful possession of a firearm, and felony unlawful use of a weapon.