CHARLOTTE — Officials have released the autopsy report for a man who died while running from police officers last year.

Lamont Darryl Perry, 32, died of cocaine toxicity during a foot chase on Oct. 27, 2016 in Wadesboro, according to the autopsy report.

He was running from a probation and parole officer who was trying to arrest him for “a probation violation related to an assault charge” when he collapsed and was unresponsive,” SBI Special Agent Audria Bridges said in a release after his death. Perry had been handcuffed and had an apparent leg injury. He was speaking with medics when he became unresponsive, according to Bridges.

Perry had nicotine, 50 mg of ethanol (alcohol), and .088 mg of cocaine in his system, according to the toxicology report. His autopsy showed that he suffered from sickled red cells in all of his major organs, cerebral edema and “abrasions, left arm and right leg, (and a) laceration, right leg.”

“Cerebral edema is a life-threatening condition that develops as a result of an inflammatory reaction,” according to the National Center for Biotechnology Information. “Most frequently, this is the consequence of cerebral trauma, massive cerebral infarction, hemorrhages, abscess, tumor, allergy, sepsis, hypoxia, and other toxic or metabolic factors.”

Dr. Jonathan Privette performed the autopsy at the Mecklenburg County Medical Examiner’s office on Oct. 28, 2016.

While Perry had no signs of a head injury, he did have swelling in his brain.

“The leptomeninges are thin, delicate and congested,” the report said. “The cerebral hemispheres are congested and swollen.”

The report also noted that “sections of brain, lungs, heart, liver and kidneys show congested vascular spaces filled by misshapen (sickled) red cells.”

Privette also found dirt on the body, and “abrasions at the posterior left arm, anterior right thigh,” the autopsy said. “There is an elliptical laceration that measures 3/4” in length and gapes to 1/4” on the anterior right lower leg. This laceration probes to a depth of 3/4” downwards.”

“Based on the history and autopsy findings, it is my opinion that the cause of death in this case is cocaine toxicity in the setting of sickle cell trait and physical exertion,” the report said.

Perry’s criminal record in North Carolina began with a conviction for a 2001 misdemeanor breaking and entering and includes subsequent convictions for larceny, driving while impaired and assault on a female. His most recent conviction was for assaulting a female in 2013. He was accused of violating probation and was reportedly running from officers when he died.

Reach reporter Imari Scarbrough at 704-994-5471 and follow her on Twitter @ImariScarbrough.

Perry https://ansonrecord.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/web1_Lammont-D.-Perry-fz.jpg Perry

Perry, 32, died during chase