A 32-year-old Wyoming man who refused repeated orders to drop a handgun was shot and killed in a hotel lobby by a Billings police officer early Thursday.

The man's identity will not be released until after the coroner notifies family members, Billings Police Chief Rich St. John said during a press conference Thursday. Seven-year department veteran Officer David Raschkow shot the man three times in the chest with a .223-caliber patrol rifle, St. John said.

At about 4 a.m., Billings Police got a call from a Days Inn desk clerk saying a man had come in with a semi-automatic handgun. The man at one point held the gun to his own head, St. John said.

The clerk got out of the office, and police arrived at the Days Inn, 843 Parkway Lane, within minutes of the 911 call, St. John said.

Officers tried for at least 25 minutes to persuade the man to put the weapon down, St. John said. With his back to the officers, the man continued to watch the security television that showed feeds from multiple cameras inside the hotel, St. John said. The man made statements he was going to start shooting.

Most of what the man said did not make sense, the chief said. A police negotiator arrived about 15 minutes after police and also did not persuade the man to disarm. Eight to nine officers were in the lobby with the man, with more officers outside the building, St. John said.

The man stood up and began to turn around, St. John said. The man had a gun in his left hand and did not obey orders from officers to drop the weapon, St. John said.

Raschkow shot the man out of fear for his fellow officers, St. John said.

The man was responsive when officers pulled him out of the lobby office, but died at St. Vincent Healthcare, St. John said. Police were notified of the man's death at about 7:30 a.m.

Yellowstone County Sheriff’s Office will assist with the investigation, in order to make the investigation more transparent, St. John said. Raschkow will meet with mental health professionals, and there will be an independent review by the Police Department’s Office of Professional Standards before Raschkow returns to duty.

According to Gazette archives, Raschkow was placed on paid leave May 3, 2012, when the department initiated an internal investigation into a complaint of excessive force. St. John said the complaint was generated from within the department and was not from a citizen. The investigation determined Raschkow's actions were "proper and within department policy and procedure," St. John said.

The chief was notified about the shooting at about 4:30 a.m. He has contacted Yellowstone County Attorney Scott Twito, and a coroner's inquest will be held sometime after the investigation into the shooting is completed.

Raschkow will be on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.

Billings Mayor Tom Hanel, City Administrator Tina Volek and representatives of the Billings City Attorney's office were also at the press conference, though none spoke.

This is the fifth fatal officer-involved shooting in Montana this year.

In January, Sean O'Brien, 37, was shot by Livingston police. A May coroner's inquest found the two officers, Kevin Engle and Andrew Emanuel, were justified in their actions.

In March, Carbon County Sheriff deputies shot and killed 42-year-old John Charles Graham. A coroner's inquest found deputies Chad Glick and Jeremy Neibauer were justified in the shooting.

In June, Butte Police officers shot and killed 36-year-old Peter Grandpre. A coroner's inquest has not yet been held. The officer was wearing a body cam during the incident.

In July, a Phillips County sheriff's deputy shot and killed 20-year-old Ambrose Mecklenburg after Mecklenburg pulled a knife on the deputy.

The Montana Division of Criminal Investigations looked into 22 officer-involved shootings between 2012 and July 2016, according to Montana DCI statistics. Out of 22 suspects, 14 died as a result of the encounter.