Fugitive Michael Vance, wanted in the shootings of two Oklahoma police officers and in connection with the deaths of two relatives, was killed in a shootout that injured the Dewey County sheriff Sunday night.

Vance was killed by an Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper after being found near the western Oklahoma town of Hammon on Sunday, said Dave Turk, a spokesman for the U.S. Marshals Service.

Confirmation of the end of the search also came via Twitter from the OHP's top official.

Late Sunday, Oklahoma Highway Patrol Chief Ricky Adams tweeted, "The manhunt is over."

The Dewey County sheriff, driving south on Oklahoma 34 from Leedy, spotted a flatbed truck dragging a chain behind it creating sparks, the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation said Monday.

The sheriff made a traffic stop to warn the driver a fire could start due to those sparks. The driver of the truck stopped and exited the vehicle shooting an assault rifle. The sheriff was shot in the shoulder and arm as he returned fire, the OSBI said.

Dewey County office deputy Judy Junkins said Sheriff Clay Sander underwent surgery Monday after he was shot in the arm, but that his injuries are not life threatening.

The driver got back inside the truck and drove south on Oklahoma 34. Within 30 minutes, law enforcement engaged the suspect, a gun battle ensued and Vance was shot and killed, the OSBI said.

OSBI special agents are investigating the officer-involved shooting involving the sheriff.

Before the shootings, officers set up a search area near Hammon after officials received a report of a suspicious vehicle that may have been used by Vance, who was wanted for multiple shootings in Oklahoma on Oct. 23.

Authorities said a tip from a farmer led them to a spot near the small western Oklahoma community of Hammon, where they believe Vance had been camping.

Vance was shot and killed by the trooper after being pulled over around 9 p.m., Turk said.

Dewey County Sheriff Clay Sander was injured in the "gun battle" with Vance, OHP Capt. Paul Timmons tweeted early Monday.

The Oklahoman reported Sander was being treated at a hospital in Elk City after being shot in the arm and shoulder.

Speedy recovery to the Dewey County Sheriff Clay Sander, suffered injuries in a gun battle with Michael Vance

— Capt. Timmons (@capt_timmons) October 31, 2016

Ellis County Sheriff Shane Booth said his deputies had been assisting in Roger Mills County since Saturday afternoon, according to the Oklahoma City newspaper.

“The suspect, Michael Vance, was most likely spotted and jumped from his hiding/camp site just north of Hammon. A perimeter was set up at all north entrances to Ellis County immediately and Dewey County also. The suspect fled in his car but is believed to have not got out of our perimeter at this time,” Booth wrote in a news release, as reported by The Oklahoman.

He said there had been no confirmed sightings in Ellis County and that it “appears he has been at this spot for several days.”

Not long after that statement was made, Vance had his run-in with Dewey County deputies, and ultimately his fatal encounter with the highway patrol.

Vance, 38, was wanted in connection with the shooting and wounding of two Wellston police officers and the deaths of Robert and Kay Wilkson, on Oct. 23. The Wilksons were relatives of Vance's. Authorities feared that Vance might try to harm other people who he blamed for a child sexual assault case being filed against him.

Prior to Sunday night, he'd been last seen at a Sayre truck stop last Monday when he attempted a carjacking. A manhunt, which was already underway, involved local, state and federal law enforcement agencies, who in turn set up security for people they believed Vance wanted to harm.

OHP Director Michael Thompson, on the agency's Facebook page, said in a statement, "It never ceases to amaze me of the incredible gallantry and bravery of Oklahoma’s Troopers. Last night’s exchange was one of the most significant acts of selfless service in my 27-year career.

"What the public may not realize is, while the pursuit of Vance was building to a culmination, in a different part of the state, Troopers in Carter County were assisting with an angry individual with a fully loaded AK 47 who was threatening law enforcement and the public.

"Before that encounter in Carter County ended, Troopers in Seminole County answered the call to assist Seminole County and PD with a dangerous shooting suspect. All of this while Troopers were closing in on Vance."

Thompson's entire statement can be found here.