The fatal police shooting of a mentally-impaired man in South Boston last year was justified, according to the Suffolk County District Attorney.

On Thursday, Suffolk D.A. Daniel Conley shared the findings from an investigation into the fatal shooting of Terrence Coleman, 31, on Oct. 30, 2016 in Boston's South End. Coleman was shot twice in the abdomen by Boston Police Officer Garrett Boyle after Coleman attempted to stab police officers and two emergency medical technicians with knife in a Shawmut Avenue apartment.

"Officer Boyle acted in the lawful exercise of his duties, both in self-defense and the defense of others," Conley wrote in a report.

"Under the extremely difficult circumstances facing him, Officer Boyle's actions in firing his service weapon twice at Mr. Coleman were reasonable and lawful." Following the state's investigation, Boyle faces no criminal charges in the fatal shooting.

The shooting occurred on the night of Oct. 30, 2016, shortly after Coleman's mother called 911 after 12:30 a.m. She called seeking help for her son, who she said suffered "schizophrenic paranoia." In a report, police say Hope Coleman had contacted her son's therapist, as well as Tufts Medical Center. Experts at Tufts reportedly said her son should be brought to the hospital by ambulance.

Two EMT responders arrived at the apartment shortly after while police waited outside. When Coleman became violent, attacking one of the EMT responders with a knife, the other responder called for the police outside.

Conley's report describes officers attempting to pull Coleman onto his back and asking for him to drop the knife. Boston Police Officer Kevin Finn reportedly wrestled on top of Coleman: "Officer Finn began to sense that he was losing control of Mr. Coleman's right arm and feared that he would be stabbed," the report reads.

Officer Boyle ordered Finn to "get clear" of Coleman, and then fired two shots at the knife-wielding man. Coleman was transported to Tufts Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. A later autopsy revealed he died from the gunshot wounds.

DA Conley cited a 2015 case of a police officer beating an unarmed civilian in self-defense, "Commonwealth v. Asher," which found a police officer is obligated to protect fellow officers and the general public in a way "that goes beyond that of an ordinary citizen, such that retreat or escape is not a viable option for an on-duty police officer faced with a potential threat of violence."

Following the shooting, Hope Coleman told WBUR her son was not holding a knife and did not use deadly force. She said police should have tased him.

"I wanted to call for help," she told WBUR while crying, "but instead of getting help, they killed him, they killed my son."

In records from Coleman's treatment at Tufts Medical Center after he was shot, Hope Coleman reportedly told her son's physician that she "did not really see what exactly happened, but that there was some sort of scuffle and she heard a gunshot," according to Conley's report.

Hope Coleman, her attorneys and DA Conley met with local clergy, civil rights advocates and community leaders after the findings were published on Thursday to discuss the case and governing law, according to a statement by Conley's office.