Marcella Corona

mcorona@rgj.com

The Nevada Highway Patrol released more details on the trooper-involved shooting that killed a 76-year-old man at an apartment building last week in Carson City.

Henry Simpson, who was shot and killed by Trooper Chris Johnson, was armed and held up a gun to the trooper moments before the shooting, NHP Chief Dennis Osborn said at a news conference on Monday. Last week's shooting marked the fourth shooting that involved an NHP trooper. Two shootings were reported in Las Vegas and one in Reno this year.

On Nov. 1, Carson City Sheriff’s deputies and NHP troopers responded at 9:29 a.m. to a call of shots fired at the Senator Apartments on 505 S. Roop Street. The caller told authorities that the man, later identified as Simpson, was holding a shotgun. Investigators later found Simpson was armed with a revolver.

Osborn said Simpson had made his way into the building manager’s apartment and was reportedly looking for his dog. That’s when the apartment manager heard a “loud pop.”

Investigators said they believe Simpson fired his gun at least two times, once at the apartment manager’s bathroom floor and the other at a nearby window.

“She was a very brave lady from everything that was described to me,” Osborn said at Monday’s news conference. “She confronted a man with a gun and tried to talk him down to take the gun away.”

Witnesses told investigators that Simpson appeared to be confused and seemed to believe he was in his own apartment. Simpson’s dog was later found in his apartment by Carson City Animal Control officers, Osborn said.

Johnson – who is a 17-year-long NHP veteran – was on duty at that time and was working at the Carson City Sheriff’s Office sub station two blocks north of the reported shooting. The station is shared by NHP.

Johnson arrived about four minutes later after the initial call to dispatch, along with deputies. Osborn said Johnson then approached the apartment room where the shooting was reported when he met with the apartment building’s maintenance manager.

The maintenance manager told Johnson that Simpson was located in one of the adjacent rooms, which was accessible through another room. As Johnson approached the entrance to room No. 99, he saw Simpson holding the revolver, Osborn said.

Simpson switched the gun from one hand to the other and then pointed it in a “shooter position” at Johnson through an apartment room window.

“The hammer was cocked,” Osborn said Monday.

Osborn said Johnson shouted multiple times to Simpson to drop the gun, but Simpson only mumbled and didn’t respond to commands.

That’s when Johnson fired his gun three times.

Simpson died at the scene. No one else was hurt during the incident.

Osborn said Simpson grew up in Ely and moved to Carson City 20 years ago. He lived at the apartment complex for 16 years and had family in the area.

Simpson had no criminal history, but authorities plan on questioning his family and neighbors to investigate whether he had any mental health problems, Osborn said.

Johnson was placed on paid administrative leave as the Douglas County Sheriff’s Office and Carson City deputies continue to investigate the shooting. On Monday, NHP also released a dash-cam video showing law enforcement officers enter the apartment building.

Once the investigation is complete, authorities will then hand off the final report to the Carson City District Attorney’s Office and the Nevada Department of Public Safety for review, Osborn said.

Attempts at reaching the apartment manager, whose identity was not released, were unsuccessful on Monday.

Check with RGJ for more updates as they become available.