One of three halfway house parolees was found dead Wednesday after the trio stole a vehicle, robbed a bank and led law enforcement officers on a chase before two were captured. The third apparently killed himself.

The series of events started in Fulton when Cecil Golden, 23, of Bellflower; David Franklin, 22, of Jefferson City; and Wade Sargent, 23, no hometown available, failed to check in at the Community Supervision Center at 1:08 a.m. Wednesday. All three were residents at the halfway house in Fulton, according to Lt. Clay Chism of the Callaway County Sheriff's Department.

"Offenders assigned to these facilities are required to accept personal responsibility in finding and maintaining employment, obtaining substance abuse and medical care, and obtaining educational or vocational opportunities," said David Owen of the Missouri Department of Corrections.

The sheriff's office received a report at 5:58 a.m. Wednesday of a vehicle stolen from a private residence in the 600 block of State Road UU, just east of Fulton and near the Community Supervision Center.

Later in the day, the men reportedly robbed Martinsburg Trust Bank in Martinsburg. Audrain County Sheriff's deputies pursued the men into Montgomery County. After shooting at law enforcement officials in Montgomery City, the men fled on foot.

Golden and Franklin were immediately apprehended at the end of the pursuit, Audrain County Chief Deputy Matt Oller said. But Sargent ran into a nearby dwelling where he was later found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The two men are being held on a $200,000 cash bond at the Montgomery County Jail.

Charges will be filed in waves, according to Maj. Matt Schoo of the Audrain County Sheriff's Department.

"In this case, you have three jurisdictions plus the federal government," he said. "The first charges came out of Montgomery County, and they are currently being filed in Audrain County. And you're going to have charges for a stolen vehicle in Callaway County."

According to Schoo, the cross departmental collaboration for the investigation allowed the matter to be addressed quickly.

"We work really well with all the other agencies, and we will continue to do so in the future," he said. "We had officers from all over involved. Everyone communicated efficiently and worked well together."