WASHINGTON, Mo. • The day before Christopher Cadenbach shot his two sons and himself to death, he choked his estranged wife, told her he intended to kill her and refused to let her leave his side, according to court documents made available Monday.

And St. Louis County police announced that while an officer did shoot Cadenbach in the lower torso in a confrontation in Cliff Cave Park about 8:15 p.m. Saturday, it was a self-inflicted shot to the head that killed the man.

Cadenbach had just slain the boys, Ethan, 5, and Owen, 4, in the back seat of his mother’s parked car, with a single shot each, police said.

At the time, Cadenbach, 43, was wanted on charges of domestic assault and felonious restraint involving the attack on his wife.

According to those charges, Elisa Sartorius-Cadenbach invited her estranged husband to her home in the 500 block of West Fifth Street in Washington to talk on Thursday night despite having an order of protection against him. They had consensual sex before she told him early Friday that she still wanted a divorce.

He became upset and “asked her if she was ready to die tonight because that was what was going to happen,” the charges say. He also accused her of inviting him over to set him up to make a rape allegation, then choked her until she lost consciousness.

After she awoke later, her husband allegedly said, “You should be dead. I was trying to kill you. You must have guardian angels. You must be stronger than you ever thought.” He also told her he “wanted to shock the Washington community” by murdering her.

According to the charges, he forced her to lie beside him in their sons’ bed for the rest of the night and refused to let her out of his sight. He did allow Ethan to catch his school bus Friday morning.

The couple took the children to Cadenbach’s mother’s home for part of Friday evening before returning them home to Washington. Then he went back to his father’s home in Leslie, in Franklin County, where he had stayed since being served the protection order.

Despite “constant fear” of him, Sartorius-Cadenbach said, she told her husband she would not go to police, still loved him and persuaded him they could restore their marriage, the charges say.

Sartorius-Cadenbach, 40, did call police Saturday, and they noted multiple bruises on her eye and neck and a swollen left cheek. That led to the charges.

About 4:40 p.m. Saturday, county police were called to Cadenbach’s mother’s home, in the 300 block of Rauhut Avenue in the Lemay area, about an abduction. She said her son had taken her two grandsons, using her 2006 Ford Focus. She said Cadenbach talked of “suicide by cop” and did not want to go to prison.

After an Amber Alert about 7:45 p.m., a ranger spotted the Focus at 660 Cliff Cave Road, in the park, and police closed in.

Arriving officers heard gunfire inside the car and saw Cadenbach emerge holding a handgun. “Almost simultaneously” to him shooting himself in the head, an officer fired at him, hitting him several times, officials said. The name of the officer, a man on the department for 10 years, was not released.

Police and paramedics were unable to revive the boys.

Sartorius-Cadenbach told The Post-Dispatch on Sunday that her husband had been “a very attentive, loving, over-the-top caring individual for these boys” but also had a dark side with underlying rage and obsession with conspiracies. She said she thinks he killed their sons to hurt her.

She is a nurse at St. Clare Hospital in Fenton, and said her husband had a photography hobby and ran a regular trivia night at a pub in Washington.

Ethan was in kindergarten at West Elementary in Washington. Owen was in a preschool in the Washington district.

A GoFundMe account has been set up to help pay for the boys’ funerals.