Monday, March 27, 2017

BEECH ISLAND, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) -- The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division has wrapped up their investigation into an officer-involved shooting in Beech Island back in November, concluding that the officers did nothing wrong.

According to the report, Solicitor J. Strom Thurmond determined "after a thorough review of the facts" that Deputy Sylvester Young and other officers acted appropriately and that there was "no criminal wrongdoing" on their part.

"Case is closed. No criminal offenses committed by Young," Solicitor Thurmond stated in the report.

The report also found the suspect, Joel Burt Keenan, tested positive for methamphetamine and Adderall.

According to the Aiken County Sheriff's Office, Joel Keenan was killed after investigators said he threatened multiple people at gunpoint at a gas station and then later at a home on Deans Drive. The incident report states Keenan was confronted by Deputy Sylvester Young in the driveway and was told to drop his weapons. Keenan allegedly lifted the guns and pointed them at Deputy Young so Young fired at him and hit him in the chest, according to the report.

Monday, Nov. 7, 2016 |

UPDATE:

2:10 p.m.

BEECH ISLAND, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) – The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division has started conducting interviews along with gathering and analyzing forensic evidence following a deadly shooting involving an Aiken County deputy.

According to SLED, there is dash cam video from the deputy's vehicle however it doesn't show the incident. The Aiken County Sheriff's Office has said they will not release the dash camera video as well as the 911 calls until the investigation is complete.

According to the Aiken County Sheriff's Office, Joel Keenan was killed after investigators said he threatened multiple people at gunpoint at a gas station and then later at a home on Deans Drive. The incident report states Keenan was confronted by Deputy Sylvester Young in the driveway and was told to drop his weapons. Keenan allegedly lifted the guns and pointed them at Deputy Young so Young fired at him and hit him in the chest, according to the report.

The Aiken County Sheriff's Office said Deputy Young has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

The incident was the 36th officer involved shooting in South Carolina in 2016 and the first in 2016 involving an Aiken County deputy. In 2015, there were 48 officer involved shootings in South Carolina and one involved the Aiken County Sheriff's Office.

Monday, Nov. 7, 2016 |

UPDATE:

11:27 a.m.

BEECH ISLAND, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) – A man is dead after investigators said he threatened multiple people at gunpoint in Beech Island on Sunday night.

Aiken County Sheriff's Office deputies met with one of the victims, Matthew Collins, around 8 p.m. at the Gulf Gas Station on Pine Log Road.

According to investigators, Collins and his children were at a gas pump. The incident report said that the suspect, later identified as Joel Keenan, pulled up in a 25-foot white RV. After that, Collins told investigators that Keenan had a silver and black pistol pointed at his head.

Collins told investigators that Keenan told him to get his kids and “get the [expletive] out of there.” Collins complied and left the scene but watched from a distance and called 911.

Collins said he believed that Keenan was “on something” and thought he had plans to rob the gas station. Collins told investigators he saw the RV pull out of the parking lot and take a right towards Aiken on Pine Log Road.

From there, Aiken County Sheriff’s Office deputies received another call to Deans Drive where the caller told dispatch that Keenan pulled up and began threatening her with a gun.

"He was in outrage, he was screaming, hollering, saying he owned the neighborhood," said Christy Turner, who lives on the property, "It runs through my mind that this man would have came in our house and held us hostage, or killed us."

According to the incident report, when investigators arrived they saw Keenan in the driveway with two handguns. One of the responding officers, Deputy Sylvester Young, ordered Keenan to drop his weapons multiple times but Keenan did not comply. Investigators said Keenan raised both weapons and Young fired one shot striking Keenan in the chest.

The incident report then said Young notified dispatch of the incident and requested EMS to the scene. Deputy Young then held Keenan at gunpoint until two other responding officers arrived and detained Keenan and rendered aid. When EMS arrived, they pronounced Keenan dead.

The incident was turned over to South Carolina Law Enforcement Division and is under investigation.

An autopsy is scheduled for Monday morning in Newberry, SC.

Monday, Nov. 7, 2016 |

UPDATE:

7:15 a.m.

BEECH ISLAND, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) -- The victim who was held at gunpoint by Joel B. Keenan in an officer-involved shooting in Beech Island is speaking out.

The victim, Michael Collins, spoke with our Meredith Anderson about what happened:

When Meredith asked Collins if they had ever seen Keenan before,

Deputies responded to the Gulf Gas Station on Pine Log Road at around 7:47 p.m. Sunday to a call about a man later identified as Keenan threatening someone with a gun. Keenan reportedly left the scene in a RV before deputies got there.

Around 8:09 p.m., deputies were called came in about the suspect threatening a homeowner with a gun on Deans Drive. Deputies found Keenan in the driveway of that home with two guns.

Aiken County Coroner Tim Carlton says Keenan "raised" the guns at an Aiken County Sheriff's deputy and that is when the deputy shot at Keenan killing him.

Monday, Nov. 7, 2016

BEECH ISLAND, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) -- A suspect is dead after being shot by an Aiken County deputy in Beech Island, according to the Aiken County Sheriff's Office.

Deputies responded to the Gulf Gas Station on Pine Log Road at around 7:47 p.m. Sunday to a call about a man threatening someone with a gun.

The suspect reportedly left the scene in a RV before deputies got there.

Around 8:09 p.m., deputies were called about the suspect threatening a homeowner with a gun on Deans Drive.

Deputies found Joel B. Keenan, 43 of Beech Island, in the driveway of that home with two guns. Aiken County Coroner Tim Carlton says Keenan "raised" the guns at an Aiken County Sheriff's deputy and that is when the deputy shot at Keenan killing him.

SLED and Aiken County officials are investigating. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday morning in Newberry, SC.

Check back for updates.