TRENTON -- A state grand jury on Tuesday declined to indict two New Jersey state troopers over the November 2016 fatal shooting of a robbery suspect armed with a steel pipe, authorities said.

The man, 31-year-old Jimmy L. Testa, was shot in the back by one of the troopers during a struggle inside a Cumberland County junkyard. Authorities say Testa resisted arrest and an escalating series of attempts to subdue him, including pepper spray.

The decision followed an investigation by the state Shooting Response Team, which conducts an inquiry anytime a state or county law enforcement officer fires his or her weapon and, in most cases, presents its findings to a grand jury. Following the vote, the state Division of Criminal Justice released a brief report detailing the investigation.

According to the report, the troopers responded to a 911 call from a resident reporting a burglary in an empty house at 147 High Street in the Leesburg section of Maurice River.

Jimmy Testa was killed after allegedly fleeing a burglary and getting into a fight with New Jersey State Police troopers in the Leesburg section of Maurice River Township on Sunday, Nov. 6, 2016.

The troopers were assigned to the State Police Port Norris barracks. A spokesman for the state Attorney General's Office declined to identify them.

According to the report, the troopers announced themselves at the empty house and one of them kicked in the back door, prompting Testa to flee the building. One of the troopers attempted to subdue him, causing a struggle. The second trooper joined the fray, but Testa escaped and ran across the street to a "backyard littered with junk."

The troopers reported seeing him carrying a black object, later identified as a flashlight.

One of the troopers caught up with Testa and tackled him to the ground, the report said, and the troopers "used various forms of escalating force in an attempt to subdue Testa, including punches, elbow blows, and flashlight blows to the head and torso."

The report said one of the troopers used his flashlight because he had lost his baton in the melee. The second trooper then pepper sprayed Testa, but he "continued to struggle hard, getting up each time the troopers took him to the ground and tried to hold him down."

Toward the end of the three-minute struggle, Testa grabbed a steel pipe, authorities said.

"Both troopers reported that they were completely exhausted and feared Testa would get the arm holding the pipe free, in which case he might strike and kill one or both of them, since Testa still had the strength to struggle violently against them," the report said. "They warned Testa to stop, but he did not comply."

The report said Testa again tried to get up, this time armed with the pipe, and one of the troopers "fired a single shot into Testa's back to stop him."

The officers then cuffed him and called for an emergency medical crew as they applied pressure to the gunshot wound, according to the report.

Testa was later pronounced dead at the scene. The troopers were taken to Inspira Medical Center in Elmer, where they were treated for "cuts and abrasions."

Shortly after the killing, the man's family disputed authorities' account, calling the police "crooked" and the use of lethal force unnecessary. They could not be reached for comment Tuesday.

State law allows a police officer to use deadly force if he or she "reasonably believes it is immediately necessary to protect the officer or another person from imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm."

S.P. Sullivan may be reached at ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have information about this story or something else we should be covering? Tell us. nj.com/tips