Both were found shot to death

FUQUAY-VARINA, NC (WTVD) -- A Granville County sheriff's deputy and his wife were found shot dead Friday night at a house in Fuquay-Varina in what appears to be a case of domestic violence.

It happened at a residence in the 1700 block of McLaurin Lane where Fuquay-Varina police said Rebecka J. Pearce had been staying at her parent's residence along with her two young children.

Shortly before 9 p.m., Fuquay-Varina police responded to a report of a breaking and entering in progress.

When police arrived at the home, they found forced entry into the rear door and immediately heard shots fired.

Then there was silence.

When officers entered the home, they discovered two people fatally shot.

Word spread quickly among neighbors on social media.

"Shots were fired and people were injured," said neighbor Nancy Bennis. "That was about all we knew at that point."

Another neighbor, Hope Shell, told ABC11, "We eventually found out that there were two dead, felt just miserable about that."

Police identified the gunshot victims as Rebecka J. Pearce, 30, and Jeremy S. Pearce, 34. Police said they were husband and wife.

The Granville County Sheriff told ABC11 Jeremy Pearce and his wife were having issues and were going through a separation.

According to police, Jeremy Pearce was trying to force his way into the home when Rebecka Pearce called 911. Jeremy Pearce is a Granville County sheriff's deputy.

The Granville County Sheriff said Jeremy Pearce was with the department for 3 years. He previously worked for the Wake Forest Police Department.

Two children, girls ages 6 and 2, were found locked in a bedroom, unharmed. Officers wrapped the children in blankets and removed them from the scene.

"Saw them carry the kids out, felt even worse," said Shell. "Just shocking."

The children were later placed with family members.

There were no other people in the house, officers said. Although officers said the case appears to be one of deadly domestic violence and there is no further threat to public safety, the investigation is continuing.

Anyone with information regarding this case, please contact the Fuquay-Varina Police Department at (919) 552-3191.

A GoFundMe page was set up for Rebecka Pearce's funeral expenses. Click here to learn more.

Report a Typo