Tori Walker

tori.walker@theledger.com

LAKELAND — A 53-year-old man was killed in a deputy-involved shooting Thursday night after he shot his mother in both legs and then pointed his gun at deputies, reports said.

Sheriff Grady Judd stood on Del Rose Drive where the shooting occurred and credited Deputy Lee Smith and Deputy Bernardo Del Valle, who were not injured, with saving the life of Marjorie Pacuicrk, 75, and her other son, Theodore Pacuicrk, 51.

Killed in the violent confrontation was John Pacuicrk.

Deputies were called to the home at 2938 Del Rose Drive about 6 p.m. for a family disturbance in what neighbors described as a quiet neighborhood off of Saddle Creek Road in north Lakeland.

Marjorie Pacuicrk said she wanted help getting her John Pacuicrk out of her house. Both her sons lived with her.

Earlier that day, Marjorie Pacuicrk had asked John Pacuicrk to help her push her car into the backyard, Judd said.

Although that made him angry, he said he would help. But when his mother could not get the car's gear into neutral, he wasn't able to push the car and became angrier. He went inside the house and locked himself in his room, reports said.

Marjorie Pacuicrk followed him inside and told him through the locked door she wanted him out. After realizing he had a gun in his room, she called the Sheriff's Office, Judd said.

When Del Valle and Smith arrived Marjorie Pacuicrk went outside to talk to them and told them that her son was locked in his room, that he had a gun but had not displayed it.

The deputies went inside to find him, but while searching for John Pacuicrk, they heard gunshots ring out from the front yard, reports said.

Once outside the deputies saw two men, John Pacuicrk and his brother, Theodore Pacuicrk, rolling on the ground, fighting.

Judd said John Pacuicrk had snuck out of the house, walked outside with a gun in each hand and told his brother he was going to kill their mother.

Theodore Pacuicrk "bear hugged" his brother to stop him but John Pacuicrk fired off rounds at their mother, striking her twice, once in each lower leg.

Marjorie Pacuicrk managed to get to her car to seek refuge after being shot, Judd said.

When the two deputies came out of the house, they saw that John Pacuicrk had a gun while he and his brother were fighting and ordered him to drop it.

Theordore Pacuicrk, who was not armed, jumped up but John Pacuicrk pointed his gun at Smith.

"When he does that, that's the last thing he does," Judd said.

Both deputies fired at John Pacuicrk and he was struck several times. They called for Emergency Medical Services and performed life-saving measures on him but he died at the scene.

Marjorie Pacuicrk was taken to Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center where she is in stable condition, Judd said. She is expected to recover.

Neighbors said they heard about eight shots go off.

"We thought it was a domestic violence thing to begin with," said Sheri Bailey, who lives down the street.

Bailey and her neighbor, Mercedes Mulford, saw the event unfold and said they were scared for the deputies.

"It's very good no deputies were injured," Mulford said. "That's what scared me the most, I thought one of them had been shot."

Mulford said the Pacuicrks seem to keep to themselves, adding that John Pacuicrk rides his bicycle around the area sometimes.

"They are very quiet people," she said.

Both of them said their hearts are with Marjorie Pacuicrk.

"I can't imagine how she is feeling," Mulford said. "She is going to be absolutely torn apart by this."

Smith, 23, and Del Valle, 28, were hired in January 2015 and are both assigned to Southwest District patrol.

Judd said, as standard procedure, they will be placed on paid administrative leave and will be offered stress counseling.

Four independent investigations — a death investigation, a PCSO Administrative investigation, an investigation by the State Attorney's Office and a Medical Examiner's Office examination — are ongoing.

— Tori Walker can be reached at tori.walker@theledger.com or 863-802-7590. Follow Tori on Twitter @Torilwalker863. Her live report can be seen on https://www.facebook.com/theledger/.