Deputies said man was naked in the middle of Howard Gap Road in Henderson County

Naked driver dies after being shocked with a Taser following crash, deputies say

A driver found naked in the middle of the road died after being shocked with a Taser by deputies following a crash, according to Maj. Frank Stout with the Henderson County Sheriff’s Office. Dispatchers got a call just after 1 a.m. Tuesday about a crash involving several parked cars at an apartment complex on Howard Gap Road, Stout said. He said deputies and EMS arrived and found a driver, later identified as Ritchie Lee Harbison, 62, naked in the middle of the road acting irrational and non-compliant. As deputies tried to take Harbison into custody he charged the deputies and a Taser was deployed, Stout said. After the Taser was deployed Harbison was brought under control, EMS workers began evaluating the driver for possible injuries, he said. Stout said during the evaluation Harbison went into full arrest and was taken to Park Ridge Hospital. He said attempts to revive Harbison were unsuccessful. The North Carolina State Highway Patrol and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation are investigating the incident.

A driver found naked in the middle of the road died after being shocked with a Taser by deputies following a crash, according to Maj. Frank Stout with the Henderson County Sheriff’s Office.

Dispatchers got a call just after 1 a.m. Tuesday about a crash involving several parked cars at an apartment complex on Howard Gap Road, Stout said.

Advertisement

He said deputies and EMS arrived and found a driver, later identified as Ritchie Lee Harbison, 62, naked in the middle of the road acting irrational and non-compliant.

As deputies tried to take Harbison into custody he charged the deputies and a Taser was deployed, Stout said.

After the Taser was deployed Harbison was brought under control, EMS workers began evaluating the driver for possible injuries, he said.

Stout said during the evaluation Harbison went into full arrest and was taken to Park Ridge Hospital.

He said attempts to revive Harbison were unsuccessful.

The North Carolina State Highway Patrol and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation are investigating the incident.

