MICHAEL BRAUN, and DAVID DORSEY

The News-Press

A Lehigh Acres man has been cleared in the citizen-involved shooting that killed the attacker of a Lee County Sheriff's Office deputy along Interstate 75.

Ashad Russell, 35, acted lawfully in shooting and killing Edward Strother on the exit ramp of I-75 and Corkscrew Road in Estero on Nov. 14, according to the state attorney's office. Russell was coming to the defense of Deputy First Class Dean Bardes.

Man killed attacking deputy a former law enforcement officer

"Our agency review is closed and no further action shall be taken by this office based upon the facts presented by this investigation and the applicable law," said a Tuesday release from the state attorney's office. "The citizen, Ashad Russell, has requested to remain out of the public eye. We would ask that you respect his privacy."

The state attorney's office also said the agency review action closes the case.

Russell, reached Tuesday, said he did not want to do any interviews and deferred comment to his attorney.

Chene Thompson of the Pavese Law Firm in Fort Myers described Russell as a private person who wanted quiet.

“It was extremely emotional,” Thompson said of Russell shooting the man. “I think that it was very difficult. It does weigh on him.

“He’s a very kind-hearted person. He has a deep respect for people and for life in general. I can tell you moments after, he prayed for that man. He was also concerned for the people who witnessed the incident that day. That would cause trauma for the people who had to witness that."

Bardes was helping the Florida Highway Patrol at a crash on the interstate when Edward Strother almost struck him.

Bardes believed the incident was intentional and began a chase along the southbound lanes of the interstate. Deputies say Strother got out of his car at the Corkscrew Road off ramp and approached Bardes as he was getting out of his patrol car.

Shoot Straight gives I-75 shooter a replacement gun

The narrative provided by the state attorney's office indicated that Russell was driving south on I-75, saw the high-speed chase, watched as Strother's Toyota Camry stopped on the Corkscrew exit ramp and the former corrections officer overpowered Bardes and began beating him. Bardes was pleading for help while being assaulted by Strother, the sheriff's office release noted.

“Despite multiple commands from Deputy Bardes and Mr. Russell to stop, this man did not, and Mr. Russell intervened,” Russell's attorney said in a statement. “At that time, there was the very real possibility that the man could arm himself with the deputy’s firearm thereby endangering the life of not only the deputy but all those on the road that day.”

Russell has a concealed weapons permit and when he approached the struggle he repeatedly warned Strother to stop before he fired three shots at him, the state attorney's report said.

I-75 shooter could be protected from prosecution

The shots hit Strother in the shoulder and neck area and lead to his death.

The state attorney's statement said that Russell was justified in shooting Strother because he believed that such force was needed to prevent death or serious injury to the officer.

"As such, Russell had a right to stand his ground in a place he had a right to be and assist Deputy Bardes in the manner in which he did," the statement outlined.

Russell's identity was not released until Tuesday's state attorney's release.

“Mr. Russell and his family will continue to pray for everyone involved, especially the gentleman that passed away, and all those who witnessed the incident that day," his attorney said.

Bardes, who was hospitalized briefly, returned to work in December.

Connect with this reporter: MichaelBraunNP (Facebook) @MichaelBraunNP (Twitter).