Detectives are still trying to determine what prompted a gunman to shoot a City Heights family, killing one member and taking another hostage, before being fatally shot by a San Diego police officer Sunday night.

Police Capt. Brian Ahearn said investigators spent Monday interviewing witnesses to the shootings, which occurred outside an apartment complex on Marlborough Avenue south of University Avenue.

The violence began about 9:15 p.m. Sunday when two men — one the suspected shooter — got into a fistfight in a courtyard at the complex, police said. At some point, the suspect went to his vehicle, grabbed a gun and chased down the street the man he had fought.

Advertisement

The suspect returned to the complex and started firing.

1 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 2 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 3 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 4 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 5 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 6 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 7 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 8 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 9 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 10 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 11 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 12 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 13 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune) 14 / 14 SDPD investigators collect evidence and photograph the crime scene Monday morning where an SDPD officer killed an armed suspect holding a woman hostage Sunday night outside a City Heights apartment who earlier had shot four people during a fight, including the hostage, authorities said. One of the victims later died at a hospital. (Peggy Peattie / San Diego Union-Tribune)

Four people were hit. The suspect then grabbed one of the victims, a woman in her 20s, by the hair. He put her in a headlock and started pulling her toward his car, authorities said. When officers arrived a short time later, the man, also in his 20s, pointed a black gun at the woman.

An officer ordered the man to drop his weapon, but he refused, Ahearn said. Instead, he made several threatening statements, saying he would either hurt the officer, the woman or both, the captain said.

“The officers were faced with a conflict situation with an armed suspect who had already shot multiple victims and who had taken a victim hostage,” Ahearn said. “We do train for this, and we hope for a peaceful resolution. But there are times when the officers are left with no choice but to use deadly force. This was one of those occasions.”

One officer, a 12-year veteran of the department, fired a single shot that killed the suspect, who was near a vehicle about a half block south of University. The man dropped the gun he was holding as he fell to the ground, Ahearn said.

Officers got the woman to safety, and she was taken to a hospital with unspecified injuries.

Two of her family members were also taken to a hospital, where one of them died. One victim chose not to be transported, despite being shot, Ahearn said.

The victims ranged in age from their 20s to their 60s. The captain did not specify each person’s injuries, but said one was shot in the head, one was struck in the abdomen and one had a grazing wound.

Investigators do not yet know the relationship between the gunman and the victims.

A neighbor said the woman who was taken hostage lived with family members who occupied two adjacent second-floor apartments in the complex.

No officers were injured in the shooting. The officer who fired was wearing a body-worn camera, and it was turned on. A police helicopter also was overhead at the time.

“The officer is obviously very traumatized about what happened,” Ahearn said.

Search the Union-Tribune’s database of fatal police shootings in San Diego County since 1980 »

Police Chief Shelley Zimmerman went to the scene Sunday night and could be seen talking to detectives. Officers closed Marlborough between Wightman Street and University as they began to talk to witnesses and gather evidence.

A woman who lives in a neighboring apartment building said she was in her kitchen when she heard a disturbance at the complex next door. The woman did not want to be named because she is afraid for her safety.

She said she thought the noise was coming from a party because disturbances at the adjacent complex are rare. She knew something was wrong when she heard residents yelling, “No!,” over and over.

She said she ran outside and saw a young woman who lives at the complex standing between family members and a man whom the witness did not recognize. She said she saw the man grab the young woman by the hair and start to drag her away.

She said she also saw a black handgun in the man’s hand.

The witness said she ran back to her own apartment and told her husband to call 911. A short time later, she heard gunshots.

Marlborough is lined on one side by apartments and on the other side by a strip mall. Several people were at a nearby coin-operated laundry when the shooting occurred. Some said they heard multiple gunshots and then saw patrol cars racing to the area.

Tony Arambula, who lives nearby, said he heard five to eight gunshots in what sounded like a shootout.

“It was fast,” he said, with the last shot sounding more like a rifle. “I stepped out and saw the helicopter going around, and knew something happened.”

Police have identified the suspected shooter and the family member who died, but will not release their names until next of kin have been notified.

Staff writers Teri Figueroa, Dana Littlefield and Pauline Repard contributed to this report.

karen.kucher@sduniontribune.com

UPDATES:

3:50 p.m. Monday, Nov. 14, 2016: This article was updated with additional details. This article was originally published at 10:25 p.m. Nov. 13, 2016.