York County District Attorney Tom Kearney has ruled that a Pennsylvania State Trooper used necessary deadly force when he shot and killed Rasheem Dinero Singletary.

Singletary, 26, of Petersburg, Virginia, was pronounced dead at the scene of multiple gunshot wounds on Nov. 15, 2016, on Interstate 83 near mile marker 24.9 in Manchester Township.

The shooting was investigated by Pennsylvania State Police. The results were forwarded to the district attorney.

According to Kearney's 22-page report released on Thursday, Singletary attracted Trooper Wesley Johnson's attention when the trooper was conducting routine traffic enforcement on southbound I-83 near the George Street Exit.

Johnson told investigators that Singletary, driving a black Ford Focus, "ducked down" to avoid eye contact with him, was tailgating and then made an improper lane change.

More:These 57 people have been killed in police shootings in Pennsylvania since 2015

Johnson said he followed the Ford and pulled it over. Singletary provided a false driver's license and identified himself as Quintard Singletary, who later was determined to be his brother.

Johnson ordered Singletary out of the car, informing him a K-9 police dog would be coming to the scene. During a pat-down, Johnson found Singletary's correct identification in the crotch of his pants.

He cooperated with Johnson until the trooper tried to place him in handcuffs, according to Kearney's report.

Singletary broke free and ran back to his car. Johnson fired an electronic stun device at Singletary, but the man was able to drive away with Johnson hanging onto the side of the car.

More:Man killed in I-83 incident shot multiple times

When Singletary steered toward the concrete median barrier, Johnson drew his sidearm and fired 11 shots into the compartment of the car, fatally hitting Singletary.

The trooper was able to reach the brake pedal with his foot and slowed the Ford enough that he could roll out and onto the highway, suffering only minor injuries.

Singletary's car came to rest against the concrete median.

Johnson told investigators that he had warned Singletary before firing into the vehicle.

His words, he said, were, "You know I'm going to (expletive) shoot you, right?"

A reconstruction of the incident confirmed that Singletary steered his car into the left-hand lane in an attempt to force Johnson against the concrete median barrier.

Johnson and another trooper had attempted to pull Singletary from the car to provide medical treatment, but were unable to because of his size.

Johnson was examined at York Hospital and released the same day.

At autopsy, a forensic pathologist noted that Singletary had been shot nine times with bullets striking him in the neck, upper extremities and torso.

Toxicology tests on Singletary showed no presence of alcohol or drugs.

A .357-caliber handgun and a small amount of marijuana were found in Singletary's car, the report states.

Also of interest, check out York County's Most Wanted: