Lyda Longa

lyda.longa@news-jrnl.com

An autopsy performed on a Volusia County man who engaged sheriff's deputies in a shootout before his death reveals that Michael Hartman suffered at least one gunshot wound.

But it still remains to be seen whether Hartman, who was suicidal, shot himself or whether the two deputies who returned fire Monday evening killed him.

The 38-year-old Hartman was found dead behind a doorway in his residence at 3626 Plantation Drive, west of Ormond Beach, just after 11 p.m. His wife Kayleigh Hartman had called 9-1-1 at 9:50 p.m. to report that her husband had taken several pills and was unconscious.

When deputies arrived, they said Hartman began shooting at them and they returned fire. When the gunfire stopped, deputies were informed by Volusia County Sheriff's Office dispatchers that they had accessed the interior security cameras of the Hartman residence and could see that Hartman was lying face up on the floor near a doorway.

But sheriff's investigators said through a spokesman that the medical examiner has not yet determined who shot Hartman and how many times he was shot. Additionally, no information was provided by detectives regarding which part of the body Hartman suffered bullet wounds.

The two deputies who returned fire — Cody Cochran, 26, and Corey Rittenour, 35 — have been placed on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. That is standard anytime a law enforcement officer fires his or her duty weapon.

Sheriff's spokesman Andrew Gant said Friday that, "Once the medical examiner's office is able to determine which gun fired the fatal shot, we will seek FDLE's concurrence in releasing that information."

Hartman suffered from PTSD from combat during his service in the military, Kayleigh Hartman said in a brief phone call to The News-Journal. She said the family was not ready to give a statement about her husband. Michael Hartman had a gun shop in the home and a website that sold gun parts.

In the last two years deputies have been involved in a handful of fatal shootings, one against an unarmed man. If it's revealed that deputies shot Hartman, it will be the seventh person deputies have killed in shootings since 2014.