ANAHEIM — The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has cleared an Anaheim officer who shot and killed an unarmed man, finding that there is “insufficient evidence” that the officer acted improperly during a 2016 confrontation.

Investigators determined there is “substantial evidence” a jury would conclude Officer Lorenzo Uribe’s actions “were reasonable and justified” when he shot 29-year-old Adalid Flores on Nov. 19, according to a letter released by the DA’s office Wednesday, July 5 announcing the results of its inquiry.

Anaheim officers confronted Flores following reports he was fleeing from a traffic collision on the eastbound 91 Freeway between Harbor Boulevard and East Street. According to the DA report, an off-duty Los Angeles Police Department officer had watched Flores run onto surface streets and had described him to police dispatchers as being “agitated” and possibly under the influence.

Uribe, as well as Anaheim officers Scott Eden and John Yoo, arrived to find a shirtless Flores pacing back and forth and yelling obscenities in the driveway of a residence in the 1300 block of North East Street. A fourth officer, James Elliott, watched overhead from a helicopter.

As he paced, Flores kept his right hand behind his back and at several points placed his left hand in his front pants pocket, according to the DA report. Flores appeared agitated and repeatedly told the officers to shoot, while ignoring commands to show the officers his hands, the report says.

Uribe asked Flores what was in his hand, the officers told the DA investigators. According to the DA report, in the moments leading up to the shooting, the officers disagreed on what they believed Flores was holding.

During the confrontation, Eden told Uribe that Flores was holding a cell phone, while Yoo said it was a wallet, the DA investigators wrote. From the helicopter, Elliott communicated to the other officers that the object in Flores’ hand could be a weapon, according to the report.

Uribe yelled at Flores “Let me see your hands, last time,” then four seconds later shot him three times, according to the DA report. A search following the shooting turned up a cell phone, but no weapon.

A blood test conducted after Flores’ death found methamphetamine in his system, along with alcohol and prescription drugs, the DA report says.

In an interview with DA investigators after the shooting, Uribe said he was “100 percent sure” Flores had a gun, describing him as a “coffee pot that’s boiling.” Uribe said he was concerned Flores was going to harm the officers or civilians at either the home or a nearby restaurant.

“Despite the statements by officers Eden and Yoo that Flores did not have a gun, it is our conclusion that we cannot prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Officer Uribe did not have a reasonable belief Flores was armed and posed an immediate danger to the officers or others,” the DA investigators wrote.