Will Greenlee

will.greenlee@tcpalm.com

HIGHLIGHTS

7:10 p.m.: Port St. Lucie Police Department releases the names of the officers involved in the shooting.

6:09 p.m.: The man who died was identified as Samson Fleurant.

6:02 p.m.: One officer fired his weapon, but all four involved will be placed on administrative leave, says police chief.

6 p.m.: The man who was shot has died, says Port St. Lucie Police Chief John Bolduc.

4:54 p.m.: Port St. Lucie police announce the Florida Department of Law Enforcement will take over the investigation of the shooting. Also, the person shot was armed with a machete.

4:43 p.m.: Police clarify that the person shot is 25, not a teen.

3:38 p.m.: Officers are responding to an officer-involved shooting on Colleen Avenue in Port St. Lucie. A boy in his mid-teens is in "very critical" condition. He sustained at least one gunshot wound, according to Brenda Stokes, of St. Lucie County Fire Rescue.

DEVELOPING STORY

PORT ST. LUCIE — A 25-year-old man accused Friday of approaching police with a machete was shot by an officer, Port St. Lucie police said.

The man, identified as Samson Fleurant, later died of his injuries, said Port St. Lucie Police Chief John Bolduc.

Police at 2:18 p.m. went to a home in the 600 block of Southwest Colleen Avenue after a disturbance call, a release states.

Investigators found a 25-year-old black man in the home with a machete.

“During the encounter, an officer used a Taser in an attempt to incapacitate the man,” a release states. “When this failed, a second officer shot the man as he continued to approach with the machete.”

The man was taken to a hospital in “very critical” condition, said St. Lucie County Fire District spokeswoman Brenda Stokes. He later died at the hospital.

K-9 Officer Colin Duncombe, 47, was the officer who fired his weapon, according to a news release Friday night from Port St. Lucie police. Duncombe is a black officer with 18 years of service with the police department.

Officer Kenneth Frid, 47, fired his Taser. He is a white officer with 11 years of service. The supervisor on scene was Sgt. Tara Pavlyshin, 44, a white officer with 15 years of service. The district commander on scene was Lt. Leo Niemczyk, 47, a white officer with 14 years of service with police department, according to the news release.

All four will be placed on paid administrative leave, Bolduc said.

The person who was shot initially was reported to be a boy in his mid-teens by the Fire District, but police later updated his age.

The owners of the home where the incident occurred are listed as Liomene Fleurant and Julienne Rene, according to records accessed via the St. Lucie County Property Appraiser's website.

Police said the incident will be investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

Staff writers Laurie K. Blandford and Nicholas Samuel contributed to this report.

See tweets from our reporters below the map.

Nicholas Samuel (@JournalistNickS) | Twitter