NEWARK -- An Irvington man was shot and killed by Newark police after he shot a 16-year-old boy in the city's West Ward, leaving the teen critically injured, officials said Wednesday.

The confrontation unfolded around 4:30 p.m. Tuesday after city police initially were called to an unrelated shooting on a commercial stretch of 18th Avenue, between West End Avenue and Alexander Street, according to acting Essex County Prosecutor Carolyn A. Murray.

The officers responded to a second shooting on a nearby block and found Talif Scudder, 30, who had shot and critically wounded the 16-year-old, authorities said.

Officers briefly chased Scudder before at least one officer fatally shot the suspect, who was declared dead at the scene around 5 p.m., near Spencer Street, law enforcement sources said.

The injured teen remained in critical, but stable condition at University Hospital in Newark, according to Murray's statement.

The 18th Avenue shooting, which prosecutors said was not related, occurred around 2:15 p.m. Officers responded to reports of gunfire near 18th Avenue and Alexander Street, but the victim, a 30-year-old Newark resident, had already been driven to University Hospital, Newark Public Safety Director Anthony Ambrose said. The victim was treated for non life-threatening injuries.

Detectives were investigating claims that a dispute led up to that shooting, Ambrose added.

Two police officers involved in the encounter with Scudder were not hurt, but taken to the hospital for evaluation.

Newark Mayor Ras Baraka and Ambrose visited the officers at the hospital, said James Stewart Jr., president of the Newark Fraternal Order of Police.

"It appears the officers interrupted a shooting in progress and probably saved the life of the intended victim, while putting theirs in danger," Stewart said Tuesday, calling the officers heroes.

Police closed off a large area blocks around the shootings Tuesday, near the Irvington line. A State Police helicopter illuminated the area with a spotlight and sheriff's officers deployed a police dog. Investigators placed evidence markers, often used to label bullet shell casings, near a bicycle on Alexander Street, at Lindsley Avenue.

The prosecutor's office is leading the probe, as required by state Attorney General's Office guidelines that govern police-involved shootings. Anyone with information was asked to call prosecutor's investigators at 862-520-3700.

Noah Cohen may be reached at ncohen@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @noahyc. Find NJ.com on Facebook.