LA MIRADA >> A standoff between an armed robbery suspect and a sheriff’s SWAT at a local convenience store ended with the man opening fire at deputies and two deputies fatally shooting him Tuesday morning, officials said.

No deputies were injured in the shooting. Detectives recovered the suspect’s gun at the front door of the ampm and Arco gas station at 13550 S. Beach Blvd.

Coroner’s spokesman Ed Winter said the man died at the scene. Winter didn’t release the name of the suspect because his next of kin has not been notified.

Authorities said the suspect shot at deputies at least twice during the standoff.

The incident started when the Sheriff’s Norwalk station received a call at 9:14 p.m. Monday about a robbery in progress at the gas station.

Deputies saw a man with a handgun standing at the front door who matched the description of the suspect, according to sheriff’s spokeswoman Deputy Caroline Rodriguez.

She said deputies ordered the man to drop the gun several times but the man ignored the commands and walked back inside the store.

A sheriff’s Crisis Negotiation Team and the Special Enforcement Bureau, which is the department SWAT, were called in.

She said the Crisis Negotiation Team talked to the suspect on the telephone but he refused to surrender.

“While the suspect was inside the store, he fired one round through the front window,” Rodriguez said in a statement.

Rodriguez said the suspect walked to the door holding a gun. One of the deputies shot at the suspect. The gunman retreated back inside the store.

The fatal shooting occurred at 12:55 a.m.

“The armed suspect again exited the location, pointed and fired at the Special Enforcement Bureau personnel when a second deputy-involved shooting occurred involving two deputies. The suspect was struck by the gunfire,” Rodriguez said.

Paramedics treated the suspect but he died at the scene.

She said sheriff’s homicide detectives will be reviewing surveillance video from the store cameras. The department has not released the video to the media.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call the Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau at 323-890-5500. Anonymous tipsters can call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-8477 or by using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org.