PITTSBURGH — Pittsburgh police have been involved in multiple vehicle pursuits within the past 10 days.

Monday morning, a 30 second police chase ended with a crash in Spring Hill after officers chased a stolen Chevy Impala a quarter of a mile with sirens and lights. Police put out stop stickers, but the car did not stop. Officers caught up to the vehicle on Rhine Street, but they are still searching for the suspect.

Also in the past 10 days, an officer's squad car was hit by a van, spinning it out of control and nearly missing a group of children, while it was pursuing another vehicle in Stowe Township.

This past Thursday, Kailey Meinineger, 21, her fiancé David Bianco and their 2-year-old daughter Annika were killed in a police-chase crash while on their way to spend Thanksgiving with family.

The crash happened Thursday after East McKeesport police made a traffic stop at 2:17 p.m. when Coleman allegedly made an illegal turn. Coleman told police he didn't have a driver's license and officers learned that a warrant was out for his arrest for a probation violation, stemming from drug charges.

When North Versailles police officers headed to the scene to assist, Coleman allegedly took off, and officers pursued the car until it crashed at the intersection of Route 30 and Route 49, hitting two other vehicles, county police said.

Police said the victims, who were in a vehicle that was struck by Coleman's car, had nothing to do with the chase.

A police source told Channel 11 News that speeds reached more than 100 mph during the chase. Authorities said that as per protocol, the East McKeesport police officer who initiated the chase was placed on administrative leave.

The East McKeesport Police Department released its polices for a vehicle pursuit following the incident.

The department limits pursuits to "persons wanted for the commission of a felonious acts." Officers "must provide a reason for the pursuit" and "shall terminate the pursuit when it becomes evident that the risks of life and property begin to outweigh the benefit." A ranking supervisor "will order the termination of the pursuit." If "dangers created by the pursuit outweigh the need for immediate apprehension of the suspect."

Channel 11 is still waiting to learn North Versailles police pursuit policy.

University of Pittsburgh professor and police expert David Harris said differing policies may create issues for when to deciding to engage in a pursuit.

“All of them have to work together and butt up against each other physically, but all of them may have different rules and policies as to a police chase and there is no one that can make them have one uniform policy,” Harris said.

Former Pittsburgh Police Chief Cameron McLay called for a ban on police chases, unless the suspect was believed to be involved in a violent felony. The word “felony” has since been removed since the initial call.

Cox Media Group