Craig Thomas

cthomas2@jacksonsun.com

A medical professional was stabbed, and a suspect was later fatally shot by a Jackson police officer, early Thursday afternoon at the Pathways Behavioral Health Sciences building in midtown Jackson, according to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.

The identity and condition of the employee, a woman, had not been released as of Thursday evening.

According to an email from TBI spokesman Josh DeVine, Don Fitzgerald White, 45, was being treated at Pathways and stabbed an employee with a knife around 12:45 p.m. Thursday.

"Two officers from the Jackson Police Department initially responded to the scene, where, during an exchange with White, the situation escalated and resulted in at least one of the officers firing his weapon, striking the subject, who later died at Jackson-Madison County General Hospital," DeVine wrote in the email, which was sent just after 6 p.m. Thursday.

According to the email, the employee is undergoing treatment at Regional One in Memphis. White's body will be taken to Nashville for an autopsy.

The email did not provide the names of the officers involved in the incident.

Jackson Police Chief Julian Wiser said early Thursday afternoon the scene was secure and there were no other suspects.

Pathways and the adjacent Jackson-Madison County General Hospital were put on lockdown, according to West Tennessee Healthcare spokeswoman Beth Parnell. Police cars blocked the section of Summar Drive directly in front of Pathways on Thursday afternoon. The hospital lockdown was lifted later in the day.

Wiser said police responded to the stabbing at 12:47 p.m.

"It's just unfortunate that here it is Thanksgiving and we've got so many families affected by a critical incident," Wiser said Thursday afternoon. "I just hope our community prays and keeps everybody in their thoughts — the victims, the officers, the suspects. We don't want to be out here on Thanksgiving, so it's just a tough time."

James Ross, interim president and CEO of West Tennessee Healthcare, released a statement Thursday afternoon.

"Please be assured that all measures are being taken to keep our employees, patients, staff and visitors safe," Ross said in the statement.

"Please join me in prayer for all of those involved."

A hospital employee at the entrance to the emergency room said late Thursday afternoon she was not allowed to give any comment on whether any patients had been moved or where they might have been moved.

The lobby and front sidewalk of the hospital were quiet late Thursday afternoon, but people were walking in and out of the main hospital entrance. The entrance to Pathways remained blocked off as of 4 p.m.

Reach Craig at (731) 425-9634. Follow him on Twitter: @JSWriterCraig