Family and friends react at the scene where a man shot two people, one fatally, before he was killed by police near the intersection of West Harrison Street and Central Park Avenue on Nov. 25, 2016, in Chicago. (Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune) (Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune/Chicago Tribune)

Updated 4:56 p.m. Nov. 27, 2016 — A man was fatally shot by Chicago police after wounding two others, one fatally, early Friday in the Homan Square neighborhood, officials said.

Kevin Navarro, first deputy superintendent for the Chicago Police Department, said officers were responding about 12:25 a.m. Friday to a call of gunfire near the intersection of Harrison Street and Central Park Avenue in the Homan Square neighborhood on the West Side.

Advertisement

When the officers arrived at the scene, they saw a man shooting another man while standing over him, Navarro said. The officers left their vehicles and engaged the shooter. At some point, the officers fatally wounded him, Navarro said.

The man was pronounced dead at the scene. The man shot by police was identified as Cleotha Mitchell, 37, of the 1300 block of South California Avenue, and the man police say he shot was identied as Jeffery J. Banks, 35, of an unknown address, according to information released by the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Advertisement

Investigators believe that the man police fatally shot had wounded two men. Navarro said one of those men was pronounced dead and the other was shot in the arm. The surviving man's condition was stabilized at an area hospital.

A weapon was found at the scene, according to a statement from police.

There weren't any officers injured in the shooting.

The Independent Police Review Authority is investigating the shooting. Mia Sissac, spokeswoman for IPRA, said investigators responded to the scene of the shooting to sort out what happened. If any video captured the shooting, Sissac said, it will be released to the public within 60 days.

A large crowd of relatives, neighbors and people who had been at a nearby bar gathered early Friday in the 600 block of Central Park Avenue as more than 20 patrol officers stood guard at the edge of where police had taped off as part of the crime scene.

Many in the crowd voiced their dismay at the police, with some yelling profanities at officers.

"That's somebody's cousin that you just murdered," one woman yelled. "I bet if it was some white boy, the family would be getting consoled."

One woman cried out that it was her brother who had been gunned down by police. She declined to comment.

Advertisement

A man's body could be seen on the ground in the 3500 block of West Harrison Street near a vehicle. It was unclear if it was the man shot by police or if it was one of the men wounded allegedly by the suspect. The bodies of two men were removed from the crime scene early Friday.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

A small group of visibly shaken women at one point was escorted by police into a building near where the shooting took place.

Anthony Johnson, 40, was among those who were standing outside the crime scene. Holding up his phone, Johnson live-streamed the aftermath of the shooting.

Johnson said he was inside the nearby bar and saw the man who was later shot by police talking to women inside the business. He recalled complimenting him on his clothes.

"The man was on nothing," he said, pointing out that bar patrons were searched before going into the business.

After the shooting erupted, Johnson and others left the bar. He recalled seeing blood on the street.

Advertisement

The shooting marks the third time within a week that Chicago police officers have been involved in a fatal shooting. Late Wednesday, a 19-year-old man was fatally shot by a sergeant in the West Englewood neighborhood. On Nov. 18, police fatally shot a man after seeing him shoot and wound another man in the West Englewood neighborhood.

Mitchell's first name has been corrected in this story.