NEWTON – District Attorney David Learner has decided a narcotics investigator with the Catawba County Sheriff’s Office acted lawfully in the shooting death of Irecas Rayshion “Ray” Valentine, 41, on Nov. 28, according to a press release issued Tuesday by the DA’s Office.

“I am expressing no opinion as to any issues relating to law enforcement tactics or whether officers complied with CCSO policies and procedures,” Learner said via the release. “My office is committed to the fair treatment of every person within the 25th Judicial District, and the equal and impartial administration of justice.”

The shooting occurred outside of a residence in the 1100 block of 15th Street NE. Investigators were on the scene as part of a drug investigation, according to the release. Hickory Police were not involved with the investigation.

The State Bureau of Investigation conducted the investigation into the shooting. The investigators then presented the case to the DA’s Office for review.

Evidence collected by the SBI included witness interviews, photographs and physical evidence from the scene. According to the release, there is no known video of the event. However, responding officers did have body cameras.

The investigators were not sure of the driver’s identity initially, according to the release. They did have information saying it might be Valentine, and they should approach with caution.

Valentine's window was rolled down and his radio was off, according to the release. Officers identified themselves and told Valentine to turn off the car. Valentine then attempted to reverse out of the residence’s driveway.

Investigators gave another warning, after which Valentine rammed two CCSO vehicles, one of which was occupied by an investigator. Another investigator fired his weapon, killing Valentine. The incident happened “in just a few seconds.”

The officer who shot Valentine remains unidentified. The release states Valentine’s Porsche Cayenne was “a deadly weapon.”

Catawba County EMS transported Valentine to Frye Regional Medical Center, where he died. CCSO Capt. Brian Kelly said Nov. 28 that no law enforcement officers were injured in the incident.

It is unknown if Ray Valentine was suspected of any crime.

Learner reviewed the case with a team of his staff that included three chief assistant district Attorneys, four other prosecutors, Learner’s chief investigator and a victim witness legal assistant. In the release, Learner said the purpose of his review was to determine if the shooting “was lawful or unlawful.”

Learner’s decision on the case is the investigator acted on the grounds of self-defense.

“The law of North Carolina recognizes the principle of self-defense, which is the inherent right to use deadly force to protect one’s self or others from death or great bodily harm,” Learner said via the release.

Learner cites the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1989 ruling in Graham v. Connor. The ruling established a standard of “objective reasonableness” to be used in excessive force cases.

“Reasonableness must embody allowance for the fact that police officers are often forced to make split-second judgments – in circumstances that are tense, uncertain and rapidly evolving – about the amount of force that is necessary in a particular situation,” reads part of the court’s opinion.