CAHOKIA • Washington Park police Officer Christopher Heatherly was off duty and had just picked up some dog food at the Walmart in Cahokia when a white sedan parked nearby caught his eye.

Twice that day he had heard police radio calls about the car. Both times, officers had been left staring at its tail lights as the driver, Jason Stringer, outmaneuvered them and sped away.

This time, Stringer didn’t escape.

The chance encounter Nov. 28, 2016, on the Walmart parking lot kicked off a series of events that led to Stringer’s death at Heatherly’s hands, a five-month investigation into Heatherly’s actions, and now questions as to whether he had the proper training to be an officer in the first place.

Heatherly says that Stringer left him no choice in the shooting, and investigators ultimately determined Heatherly was justified in firing at Stringer.

But Stringer’s family questions that finding. An ex-girlfriend and mother of his child says she believes police just got sick of chasing him.

Despite being cleared in the shooting, Heatherly lost his job and faces hurdles in finding another in police work. A state board says he doesn’t have required qualifications to be a police officer, a situation he blames on bureaucracy and politics. He’s hired an attorney to battle the state, and has been working private security jobs in the meantime.

On the run

Stringer, who was wanted for multiple felonies, led police on chases at least five times in the two months leading up to his death. Almost every time, he had a different car, drove at more than 100 mph, and narrowly missed hitting pedestrians and other drivers, according to police reports.

During one of those chases, Stringer rammed a police car that tried to box him in, according to police reports. A Washington Park officer fired several shots at him, but no one was hit and Stringer escaped.

While on duty Nov. 28, 2016, Heatherly had listened to scanner traffic as Stringer, in a white rental sedan, twice evaded East St. Louis police.

At Walmart that night, off duty, Heatherly spotted the same white rental sedan. He pulled his car behind it, and called in to dispatchers.

Two Cahokia officers — one with a police dog — pulled in to the store at 1511 Camp Jackson Road. Stringer and a woman he was with came out of the store before the officers could hatch a plan to arrest him inside.

For a brief moment, Stringer can be seen on store surveillance footage putting his hands up when officers confront him.

Then he drops them to his sides. And runs.

Two officers and a police dog chase him through the parking lot, but he makes it to his car. He wrestles the door away from the officers, shuts it and pulls away just in time to avoid the police dog.

Meanwhile, Heatherly can be seen on the surveillance footage holding Stringer’s companion on the parking lot near the store entrance.

Surveillance footage shows Stringer drive toward Heatherly. He says he feared for his life, and he fired three shots at Stringer, according to the Illinois State Police investigation into the shooting. About the same time, the car’s turn signal comes on. Heatherly says he believes Stringer bumped the turn signal when he tried to duck and avoid Heatherly’s shots.

Investigators determined two of Heatherly’s .45-caliber bullets had lodged in the hood of the car — their trajectories consistent with having been fired when the car was heading toward him. A third bullet struck Stringer in the shoulder, penetrating his right lung and lodging in his chest, according to an autopsy report.

Still, Stringer tried to drive away.

The surveillance cameras captured Stringer hitting a police SUV before pulling off the lot. Witnesses and other officers told investigators that Stringer narrowly missed pedestrians before crashing into a median about a mile away, off camera.

When officers approached, he refused to show them his hands. A police dog bit him, and he finally surrendered, telling officers he had been shot, according to a police report.

He was pronounced dead at the hospital about an hour and a half after Heatherly shot him.

Heatherly recalled the moment then-Washington Park Police Chief Tony Tomlinson told him Stringer didn’t make it.

“He belonged in jail,” Heatherly said, choking back tears. “I never wanted to kill him. But unfortunately he made that choice.”

Illinois State Police investigated the shooting. Special Prosecutor David Rands wrote a letter to Judge Andrew Gleeson in April 2017 concluding that Heatherly’s use of force was “entirely lawful under the facts and circumstances.”

The surveillance footage from Walmart “completely corroborated the statements” of all the involved officers and at least two witnesses who told police that they believed Heatherly “had no choice but to fire at Stringer,” Rands wrote.

Family questions shooting

At the time of the shooting, Stringer was wanted for firing shots on two occasions a month earlier at his ex-girlfriend’s new boyfriend. Police say Stringer put a gun to the boyfriend’s head at a gas station on Nov. 23, less than a week before the fatal encounter at the Walmart.

The ex-girlfriend, Kashondra Murphy, said she had been with Stringer for more than 10 years. Their son, Jason Stringer Jr., now 13, wears his father’s favorite baseball cap to bed every night, she said. At the time of the shooting, she told the Post-Dispatch Stringer was fun and lovable, “but he had his faults. I think he got wrapped up in the streets.”

“I just wish he went to jail instead of being dead,” Murphy said then.

But Murphy said in an interview in November that she doesn’t believe Stringer would have tried to run over Heatherly or the woman he was with that night. “Jason made poor choices,” she said, but Heatherly shouldn’t have shot him.

“He didn’t lash out at officers,” she said. “All he did was run and jump in the car and try to get away.”

Murphy said she believes Heatherly killed Stringer because police were simply tired of chasing him. She’s upset to learn he’s trying to become an officer again.

“I believe that particular day they got tired of chasing him,” she said. “And that time (Heatherly) wasn’t going to let him get away. If they put him back on the streets, he’s liable to do the same thing again.”

Stringer’s mother, Rita Stringer, of Belleville, declined to be interviewed for this story, saying this newspaper and others have incorrectly reported the shooting. She wouldn’t explain further.

Asked about what she thought of Heatherly’s desire to return to police work, she said, “He can kiss my (expletive).”

Training in question

Heatherly has worked for at least five departments in the Metro East since 1998, including Lebanon, East St. Louis and Brooklyn. In some cases, records show Heatherly was terminated. In others, he resigned.

Heatherly had been with Washington Park for about a month when he shot Stringer on the Walmart parking lot.

While in Brooklyn, the department accused Heatherly of mishandling evidence, posing for a calendar photo with an evidence rifle, and violating policies.

St. Clair County Prosecutor Brendan Kelly reviewed the allegations, but said the accusations could not be substantiated.

As for his short stints in other departments, Heatherly said: “I’m good at this (job), and unfortunately sometimes that ruffles feathers.”

But now he can’t work as an officer in Illinois until questions about his training are sorted out.

The Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board requires officers to complete training to keep their licenses. But the board generally issues waivers for some of that training as long as officers don’t leave police work for more than three years.

Heatherly got a waiver on Dec. 8, 2016 — about a month after the shooting at Walmart. But the board rescinded it Jan. 5, 2017, saying it had been erroneously issued and “generated automatically before our review of the file was completed,” according to a Jan. 26 letter from Brent Fischer, executive director of the training board.

Fischer wrote that Heatherly had not completed annual firearm training for more than seven years. Heatherly disputes that, saying he stayed current on his firearms training. He provided copies of certificates to the Post-Dispatch.

Fischer did not respond to a request for comment.

Heatherly agreed to go back to the police academy to return to good standing with the licensing board. But new leadership in Washington Park fired Heatherly before he got the chance, he said. The police chief was also fired. That was politics, Heatherly said. Without a department to sponsor him, Heatherly said, he can’t afford to go to the academy.

He has hired an attorney, John Pawloski, to fight for his job. Pawloski said other officers have been allowed to work while lacking similar training qualifications and believes the state’s decision to rescind Heatherly’s waiver is unprecedented.

Heatherly says police work is what he’s trained for and loves, so the fight is worth it. He stands by his actions that day, but he says he’ll always remain haunted by having taken someone’s life.

“To stumble on a bad guy like that, I thought I was the luckiest cop in the world,” he said. “But it turned out, I was the unluckiest cop in the world. It didn’t work out the way I had planned. I wish I had never stopped for dog food.”