Holly V. Hays

holly.hays@indystar.com

The Hendricks County Sheriff's reserve deputy involved in the fatal shooting of an Avon man last year will not be charged, the department said Friday.

Bradley King, 29, was shot at his home Nov. 29 by a Hendricks County reserve deputy. Officers were sent to the residence to conduct a welfare check after King had called police dispatch several times that afternoon.

Police say King revealed a knife and ran toward one of the deputies. King had been diagnosed with schizophrenia, and his family said he was having a mental episode that day but never would have hurt anyone.

Capt. Amanda Goings said in a statement released Friday that no criminal charges will be brought against the reserve deputy involved in the shooting.

The first call placed from King's residence came at 12:12 p.m., according to the statement. The Hendricks County Communications Center received four hang-up calls from King's residence on Sheffield Drive near Avon, with dispatchers returning the calls.

Twice, King told dispatchers he accidentally dialed police while trying to place another call. Once, he asked for an officer to come to his home because he was "going through a little psycho phase," according to the statement.

Goings said King later identified himself to dispatchers as "Brad Grout" before saying he was fine and hanging up.

Deputies Jeffrey Hughes and Jason Hays were sent to King's house to conduct the first of two welfare checks, according to the statement, but could not make contact with the caller.

Later, at 2:24 p.m., dispatchers received three more hang-up calls from the home. Deputies Hays and Jeremy Thomas were sent to the home on another welfare check and arrived at 2:42 p.m., where they found King in the backyard, with his hands in his pockets.

When told to take his hands out of his pockets, King revealed a 10-inch kitchen knife with a 4⅞-inch blade, Goings said.

When deputies told him to drop the knife, Goings said King ran toward Hays, who fired a single shot, going through King's arm and into his chest. His arm was raised at the time the shot was fired, Goings said.

Requests made by IndyStar on Jan. 12 for logs and recordings of the 911 calls made from King's residence that day have not been fulfilled.

Goings said the investigation determined that Hays fired the shot at King from a distance of from 9 feet, 7 inches to 11 feet, 5 inches.

The department's Firearms Review Board decided the use of deadly force was necessary to stop the threat, Goings said.

Hendricks County Prosecutor Patricia Baldwin said her office reviewed the evidence of the case for a month before coming to the conclusion that no criminal charges would be brought against Hays.

Hays is authorized to return to work as of Jan. 27, Goings said.

King's father, Matt King, an employee of Gannett Publishing, said he was not surprised that the details of the report that made it sound like Bradley King ran toward the officers with the knife. He said he doesn't believe that is true.

Bradley had made calls to police asking for help before, Matt King said. Once, in the middle of the night, Matt King and his wife awoke to find an ambulance had arrived at their home to take Bradley to the hospital for an evaluation. Bradley needed help, he said, but didn't want to bother family.

"It’s hard to figure out a schizophrenic mind," Matt King said.

Matt King said his family is still trying to process the incident and are still sorting through the details of the update released Friday.

“The mixed emotions have never stopped, but I’m angry. I’m sad. I’m everything that you can probably think of," King said. "When I talk about it, I get angry. … When my wife talks about it, she cries.”

King said he doesn't harbor bad wishes for Hays, the deputy involved in the shooting, but his son's loss hasn't stopped hurting.

"I’m sure he’s distraught; he’s got to live with this for the rest of his life," he said, "but I’m angry it happened.”

Goings said the office is planning to host a Crisis Intervention Team training course, offered by the National Alliance on Mental Illness, and will send five supervisors to attend a course next month.

CIT courses are 40-hour trainings that teach participants about types of mental illnesses, listening and de-escalation techniques and available local mental health resources, according to the NAMI website.

King said he hopes these trainings and more continue happen at law enforcement agencies not just in Hendricks County, but nationwide.

“I want something to change,” he said.

Call IndyStar reporter Holly Hays at (317) 444-6156. Follow her on Twitter: @hollyvhays.

Man killed in officer-involved shooting in Avon identified