Ted Czech

tczech@ydr.com

York County Coroner Pam Gay identified 74-year-old Raymond Updegraff as the man struck and killed by a Northeastern Regional Police vehicle on Wednesday night.

Updegraff, who was homeless, died at the scene, Gay said. He was struck while attempting to cross North George Street in East Manchester Township.

The cause of death was multiple blunt force trauma and the manner was accidental, according to Gay.

Updegraff's family has been notified.

According to Pennsylvania State Police, the Northeastern officer was on routine patrol in an unmarked vehicle, heading south on North George Street at the time of the incident, police said.

Northeastern Regional Police Chief Bryan Rizzo said that per department protocol, the officer is on paid leave. Rizzo referred additional questions to state police.

Updegraff was the ninth pedestrian killed in York County this year. The majority of those deaths were people killed on roads by vehicles not connected to them. One pedestrian death was workplace-related and another was an owner killed by their own vehicle, Gay said.

"Obviously, anytime a pedestrian dies, it's a concern, because we feel they are preventable," she said. "It's just a reminder to us all to be extra careful as drivers and as pedestrians."

Updegraff was known to frequent local homeless shelters and was also known to police, Gay said. Others at the scene recognized him, too, so Gay's department was able to quickly locate Updegraff's niece, she said.

The call went out from York County 911 at 10:25 p.m. for a pedestrian struck in the 4200 block of North George Street. Within an hour, Pennsylvania State Police troopers and detectives were on the scene, as well as the coroner and a Northeastern Regional officer.

Kyle King, spokesman for the District Attorney's office, said Thursday that DA Tom Kearney "did report to the scene after receiving notification and our office has been in contact with the Pennsylvania State Police. Any further comment at this time would need to come from them as this remains an active investigation."

The area is residential on one side of the busy thoroughfare and commercial on the other, with a McDonald's, stores and other restaurants in the strip mall.

Jihad Wade had just left work and stopped by the McDonald's on North George Street when he heard about the crash.

He said most people in this part of York County are close and know each other. People frequently walk this stretch of North George Street to go to and from places like Sheetz, said Wade, of nearby Mount Wolf.

Wade noted that the roads Wednesday night were slick. He came out to watch state police investigate. Investigators were spending a great deal of time around a dark-colored Ford sedan with municipal plates.

"I was hoping it (the victim) was someone I didn't know," he said.

Delores Sheffer was watching a Dolly Parton Christmas special on television Wednesday night when she heard a noise outside.

"It was such a big bump," she said.

She jumped up right away and looked outside. She saw a police car in the middle of the street.

"I saw somebody laying there right at the end of our driveway," she said.

By Thursday morning, no emergency vehicles remained.

Staff reporter Teresa Boeckel contributed to this report.

Contact reporter Ted Czech at 717-771-2033.