HUDSON, Ohio - A Hudson police officer told investigators that he shot and killed a United Arab Emirates native after the man choked him and grabbed at his gun, records show.

A Summit County grand jury on Thursday decided not to bring criminal charges against officer Ryan Doran in the Dec. 4 shooting death of Saif Nasser Mubarak Alameri, a 26-year-old law student at Case Western Reserve University. Doran shot Alameri, who was unarmed at the time, during a struggle in a wooded area near Hudson Aurora Road, officials said.

The case is now closed, an Ohio Attorney General's Office spokeswoman said Thursday afternoon.

Doran told investigators that Alameri attacked him in the woods, and that he was fearful for his own life during the encounter. Doran said Alameri knocked him to the ground and grabbed at his gun, according to investigative records released Thursday by the Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

"I can't do anything and at that point there I thought I was dead," Hudson told investigators, records say. "I thought he was going to get my weapon and he was going to shoot, kill me dead on the spot."

Test results showed the officer's DNA on Alameri's fingernails, and the Emirati man's DNA on Doran's uniform collar. Those test results were consistent with Doran's description of the physical struggle, according to the investigative records.

The Summit County Medical Examiner's Office said Alameri was shot five times. The gunshot wounds were also consistent with Doran's description of the shots he fired, records show.

Doran chased Alameri into the woods after he was involved in a crash on the Ohio Turnpike near Interstate 480. Alameri drove his car at least 112 mph when he sideswiped another car and flipped his car onto its roof, State Highway Patrol investigators determined.

Witnesses said Alameri appeared to be acting strangely when he got out of the car and ran into the wood. Toxicology tests later showed he had marijuana in his system, but the medical examiner's office did not say if it was enough to cause impairment. Alameri did not have any other drugs or alcohol in his system.

Doran said he found Alameri in the woods and ordered him to stop, but Alameri ran. Alameri twice turned and ran toward Doran; the second time led to a collision that knocked Doran to the ground, he told investigators.

Doran told investigators that Alameri hit the back of his head several times while he was on the ground, and that he felt tugging on his gun and his belt. Doran grabbed his gun before he felt a hand or arm on his throat, he said.

"I start to feel that my, I'm losing oxygen and I'm going to black out and I'm going to die," Doran told investigators.

Doran said he sat up before he fired two shots toward Alameri's leg. Doran felt Alameri on his back, so he blindly fired several shots over his shoulder, he told investigators.

Doran then got up and ran about 15 feet away. Alameri was lying face-up in a ravine when other officers arrived and found them.

The other officers used a defibrillator on Alameri before paramedics took him to a hospital, where he died.

Evidence gathered during the investigation was turned over to the Ohio Attorney General's Office's Special Prosecutors Section, which presented that evidence to a grand jury. The grand jury declined to return an indictment in the case, an attorney general's office spokeswoman said Thursday afternoon.

The shooting was the second of two high-profile incidents involving an Emirati man last year in Northeast Ohio. In October, a Lorain County grand jury chose not to indict a hotel desk clerk accused of falsely reporting that an Emirati guest pledged allegiance to ISIS. Avon officers who were acting on the report detained the man at gunpoint June 29 at the Fairfield Inn and Suites on Colorado Avenue.

The United Arab Emirates ambassador to the United States spoke with Gov. John Kasich and Ohio Department of Public Safety Director John Born to discuss the Alameri shooting. Officials from the Abu Dhabi Police Department and an embassy consular team representing Alameri's family also met BCI investigators, medical examiners and police, Ambassador Youssef Al Otaiba said after the shooting.

The UAE Embassy released the following the statement upon hearing of the grand jury decision:

We are deeply disappointed by the Grand Jury's decision regarding the death of Saif Al Ameri, an Emirati student at Case Western Reserve University's School of Law. Mr. Al Ameri's death was a terrible tragedy. Our thoughts and prayers remain with his family, and we will continue to support them in any way possible. The UAE Embassy will also consult closely with Mr. Al Ameri's family to determine additional legal options.

Case Western Reserve University also released a statement in response to the decision.

The state may have closed the case involving our law student Saif Nasser Mubarak Ali Alameri, but his tragic loss continues to be felt keenly on our campus. His classmates, as well as school faculty and staff, described Saif as friendly, generous and regularly able to inspire a smile among others. We again express our deepest sympathies to his loved ones and friends, and hope that their memories of him still will provide comfort.

To comment on this story, visit Thursday's crime and courts comments page.