SIOUX CITY | A Sioux City police officer fatally shot a passenger in an SUV after he felt threatened during a routine traffic stop Wednesday night, the police chief said Thursday.

After pulling over the Chevy Suburban near the intersection of Tri-View Avenue and South Myrtle Street, officers learned there was an outstanding warrant for the lone passenger, Daniel Anthony Riedmann, 36, and the Dakota Dunes man could be armed and dangerous, Police Chief Doug Young said.

"The officers then re-approached the vehicle. Mr. Riedmann did not comply with the officer's demands to exit the vehicle. The vehicle was locked and as they were making their demands there were some furtive movements at which time the officer stepped back and discharged his service weapon striking Mr. Riedmann," Young said at a news conference at police headquarters.

The officers administered first aid and Riedmann was transported to Mercy Medical Center -- Sioux City by ambulance, where he was pronounced dead about 30 minutes later.

A handgun was later recovered inside the vehicle, Young said.

It's the first fatal shooting involving a Sioux City police officer in nearly three years.

The police chief said he did not know how many shots were discharged Wednesday night nor where Riedmann was shot. Young did not identify the male officer who fired his weapon, other than to say he has been on the force for three years. He has been placed on paid administrative leave, pending further investigation, and his name will be released in the near future, Young said.

The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation is investigating the case. An autopsy on Riedmann's body is scheduled to be performed Friday in Des Moines.

Young said the incident was captured on a police squad car dash cam. The video will be released at an undisclosed time and date, he said.

The stop occurred at about 10:25 p.m. Wednesday on South Myrtle Street, near the Central Mart convenience store at 1203 Tri-View Ave.

The driver, Melinda Benoit, 39, of Sioux City, was pulled over because "there was an indication that there may be a wanted on the plate of that vehicle," Youngs said. Benoit was not arrested, but was cited for a traffic violation. The police chief said he did not know the relationship between Benoit and Riedmann.

State officials last month issued a warrant for Riedmann for a parole violation. Riedmann, who has a long criminal record dating back to 2001, was released from prison in June after serving a portion of sentences on felony charges in Woodbury and Polk counties, according to the the Iowa Department of Corrections website. In Woodbury, he was sentenced in March 2014 to 15 years on second-degree theft, habitual offender enhancement, according to court records.

The last time Sioux City police officers fatally shot someone was in January 2014. Felix Navarrete, 29, died after he was shot by an unidentified officer in an apartment in the 2700 block of South Helen St., and then fell from a second-story window onto the ground. The SWAT Team was serving a warrant on Navarrete for a homicide in Sioux City three days earlier. A loaded handgun was found tucked into the back of his pants.