The Elkhart County prosecutor will not file charges against two police officers in the death of Norman Gary.

We now know more following a Grand Jury investigation about what exactly happened the night Gary died.

It was tense in the courtroom Wednesday afternoon as Gary's family waited to hear whether or not the two police officers involved would be charged in his death.

The shooting happened on December 4 on Decamp Avenue in Elkhart.

Officers Leonard Dolshenko and Nathan Lanzen ran to the street when they heard gunfire.

They then got caught in a shootout during which Gary was killed and three other people were hurt.

"There is absolutely no question that the death of Norman Gary is a tragedy," said Elkhart County Prosecuting Attorney Vicki Becker.

A grand jury convened on Monday to determine if any charges would be filed against the officers. They found that the officers' actions were justified because they had reason to fear for their lives.

Lanzen was tending to a man who had gunshot wounds.

"His attention was very quickly changed to the sound of flying gravel and a vehicle that was accelerating on the opposite side of the house and coming down the alley," Becker said.

Becker said the car was heading right toward Lanzen.

"At that point in time he made the decision to use deadly force in an attempt to stop that threat by firing his weapon three times into the specific vicinity of where the driver of that vehicle would be located," Becker said.

"They didn't give my son a chance to do nothin," said Gary's mom Margaret Johnson. "Why didn't they shoot the tires out or somethin? Why shoot the car? They shot in the car. They intended to kill my son."

Johnson said this is not over.

"Those officers who killed him, they gonna pay for it," Johnson said.

Dolshenko also fired at Gary because he, too, saw the car coming toward them. When officers finally approached Gary they found a handgun in his lap. They also said he was drunk and had drugs in his system at the time.

For the full story, here's the Prosecuting Attorney's brief of the incident:

Elkhart County Prosecutor Letterhead

***MEDIA ADVISORY***

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 01, 2017

GRAND JURY DECIDES OFFICERS WILL NOT FACE CHARGES IN THE SHOOTING DEATH OF NORMAN GARY

Media Contact: Vicki Elaine Becker (574) 296-1888

I make these statements for the purpose of informing the public as to my intentions as Prosecuting Attorney relating to this case, and for safety concerns of our community.

The events surrounding Norman Gary’s death are truly a tragedy. His children, his family, his friends, his acquaintances, people who did not really know him, but that were touched by him, are all suffering due to his death. The three additional people that were injured by the shootings that occurred that night are suffering. The police officers who were put in a position they felt they had to use deadly force are suffering. The suffering is real, and it will take a great deal of time, and support, to heal.

There are many things we all hold sacred as priorities in our community. Safety of our families, friends, and neighbors are all included. Every event that occurs should be viewed from all of the different perspectives of those that see, hear, or experience an event. For those of us who do not get to experience it, we have to rely upon others to relay what they each saw, heard, or perceived. When our community members are forthcoming with information, it is much easier to understand those perspectives. When they are not, our community suffers in a different way. The most dangerous threats to peace are perceptions based on incomplete truths, or inaccurate assumptions and biases.

The Indiana State Police has completed their investigation into the shootings which occurred in the early morning hours of December 4, 2016. At approximately 3:45 a.m. that morning, Sgt. Nathan Lanzen, Cpl. Leonard Dolshenko, and Cpl. Brandon Roundtree were investigating and meeting with a victim of a residential burglary on Capital Boulevard, less than a block from a location where a party was ongoing on DeCamp Avenue. Numerous individuals that were at that party reported there were a large number of people present, the lowest estimate was more than fifty (50) persons, some of whom were drinking and some of whom were using marijuana. An argument between two people at the party culminated when one person pulled a 9mm handgun in the front yard at least ten (10) times and began shooting, striking the other person involved in the argument and a second man also present at the party. Shortly thereafter, another shooting took place in the alley at the rear of the residence where Norman Gary had previously parked during which Norman Gary’s gun was fired ten (10) times and the same 9mm weapon used in the shooting at the front of the house was fired at least three (3) more times.

The officers responding to the burglary call heard the first set of shots nearby and immediately ran from the burglary victim’s home and toward the sounds of gunfire. Hearing another set of gunfire, they were able to narrow down the specific location of shooting a few houses down DeCamp Avenue. Upon approaching the house on DeCamp, the officers observed numerous people outside the residence.

Sgt Lanzen’s attention was drawn to the injured man lying in the area of the driveway, behind a car, to the north of an alley, who was suffering from multiple gunshot wounds, including one to his back which incapacitated him. Being aware of the presence of guns, and a large number of shots fired, both Sgt. Lanzen and Cpl. Dolshenko had their service weapons ready. Sgt. Lanzen was aware that Cpl. Dolshenko and Cpl. Roundtree were also close behind him, but did not know where. They had already radioed in to the city’s emergency communications that shots had been fired in that vicinity.

Sgt Lanzen’s attention was then drawn to the sound of a vehicle travelling very quickly in the alleyway. Sgt. Lanzen then observed headlights coming down the alley. Sgt Lanzen did not know who was in the car, nor what the driver’s intention was. However, Sgt Lanzen reported that he observed the car turn toward his location and drive straight toward where he was standing at a high rate of speed, which was also near the victim who was on the ground suffering from a gunshot wound to the back. Sgt. Lanzen, fearing for his own safety, and the safety of his fellow officers, fired his weapon three (3) times at the person that was driving the car. Cpl. Dolshenko also observed the vehicle changing paths and swerving toward Sgt. Lanzen and the victim on the ground. Fearing for his own safety and the safety of others, Cpl. Dolshenko fired his weapon five (5) times at the driver of the car. Both doing so in an attempt to stop the threat. The car then veered away from the officers and injured man and crashed into a tree on the opposite side of the road. This is significantly corroborated by forensic evidence documented at the scene.

Cpl. Dolshenko immediately approached the driver of the car and found him laying over toward the passenger side so he ordered the driver to put his hands up and sit up. The driver did not respond and Cpl. Dolshenko pulled the driver out onto the ground. A gun fell from the driver’s lap area, out of the car, and onto the ground at that time. Cpl. Dolshenko immediately handcuffed the driver to secure him. Not realizing how serious the wounds were. Within seconds, Cpl. Dolshenko realized the driver was fatally injured. The driver was Norman Gary. There was also a passenger in the front seat of the vehicle who appeared to be injured in the leg. Sgt. Lanzen had already called for medics and the passenger was responsive, so rather than cause further injury, officers waited for medics to arrive to treat the passenger.

Officer Lanzen struck Mr. Gary in the spine, and is likely to have struck the front seat passenger Jazzlyn Crase, in the leg with his shots. Cpl. Dolshenko struck Mr. Gary in the hand. It is reasonable to believe that one of the officers’ shots penetrated Mr. Gary’s left side, chest cavity, and heart, but the bullet did not have enough unique markings to determine which specific officer’s gun had fired it.

Why Norman Gary drove at such a high rate of speed, and directly toward where the officers and others were located, we will never know. His blood alcohol content at the time was .25 and he had THC (the psychotropic chemical compound in marijuana) active in his blood stream as well. We should not assume that he did so with ill intent as there is insufficient evidence to know. What we do know is that Mr. Gary was accelerating rapidly down the alleyway and into the grassy area between the alley and the driveway area where one gunshot victim was lying and Officer Lanzen was located. That action was perceived as a deadly threat and Officers Lanzen and Dolshenko both responded with deadly force.

A person is justified in using reasonable force against any other person to protect the person or a third person from what the person reasonably believes to be the imminent use of unlawful force. However, a person: (1) is justified in using deadly force; and (2) does not have a duty to retreat; if the person reasonably believes that that force is necessary to prevent serious bodily injury to the person or a third person or the commission of a forcible felony. No person in this state shall be placed in legal jeopardy of any kind whatsoever for protecting the person or a third person by reasonable means necessary. The officers’ actions were reasonable under the circumstances. Accordingly, neither Sgt Lanzen nor Cpl. Dolshenko will face criminal charges as a result of their actions in this case.

Thank you to the investigators for their ethical responsibility to refrain from speaking publicly about the circumstances of this case.

***

“Under Indiana law, all persons arrested for a criminal offense are innocent until proven guilty in a court of law.”





Feb. 28, 2017

By Kasey Chronis

ELKHART COUNTY, Ind (WNDU) - Grand jury proceedings will continue Wednesday in Elkhart County. This after jurors spent a second day reviewing the events that led to 29-year-old Norman Gary’s shooting death in December.

When officers Leonard Dolshenko and Nathan Lanzen arrived to DeCamp Ave. on the morning of December fourth, police say a shootout took place.

Gary was killed while three others were injured.

What is in question is whether or not those officers acted appropriately.

In this case, it will be the grand jury's job to decide if there is enough evidence to indict the two officers who were involved.

In recent days, local community members have come together to pray for a peaceful outcome.

“We’ve been able to hear memories of Norman Gary from friends and family members. The time when we went for prayer Sunday night was at the site of the shooting, and I was struck as we were looking around that there are children and families living in all of those houses who were peeking out the windows to see… and you realize, this is for real, it happened in someone's front yard,” said Pastor Carolyn Hunt of Prairie Street Mennonite Church. “For whatever the outcome is, whether the grand jury decides to indict or not to indict, we pray for peace in our city.”

The grand jury is expected to make a decision Wednesday. Elkhart County Prosecutor Vicki Becker will need to approve their decision before it is considered valid.

Elkhart police say both Dolshenko and Lanzen will remain on paid leave until this case is settled.





Feb. 28, 2017

By Maria Catanzarite

GOSHEN, Ind. (WNDU) --- The chants outside the Elkhart County Courthouse changed as quickly as the stoplights, but the theme remained unchanged: justice for Norman.

"I heard about the injustice with Norman Gary and his case, and I felt specifically called to stand up and take witness," said Malcolm Stovall, a Goshen College senior.

On Tuesday, roughly a dozen people stood watch at the street corner while a grand jury convened to decide whether or not charges should be brought against two Elkhart policemen in connection with Norman Gary's death. The 29-year-old Elkhart man died from a gunshot wound on December 4. Early that morning, Officer Leonard Dolshenko and Sergeant Nathan Lanzen ran to Decamp Avenue after hearing gunshots while investigating a nearby burglary. Elkhart police say a shootout took place. Gary died, and three others were injured. The two officers remain on paid leave until the case is decided.

"I hope, with all of the evidence presented, I hope everything is fair," said Sandy Holt, Gary's sister. "We're praying for the officers to be indicted. I hope, I hope that's what happens."

For Mimi Salvador, a Goshen College senior, Gary's death elucidates a larger issue.

"There's so many African American men and women being shot in the streets and no impunity toward police officers," she said.

Salvador studies Peace, Justice, and Conflict Resolution. She attended the rally, armed with a cardboard sign that read: "Another black brother shot by police. Indigenous solidarity." Originally from Ecuador and a member of the native Kichwa tribe, Salvador empathizes with the racial undertones of Gary's death. But, his story resonates on a human level, she says.

"The fact that he is a father, and he has four children, and I think that if my parents were in that position, and if I was left without my parents, that would be a pretty painful story," added Salvador.

Stovall, her classmate, agreed.

"From a basic standpoint, I came out here because someone was shot, and they were left to die," he argued. "But I also see the racial aspect of it and how it fits in to what's happened with officer-involved shootings toward minorities and particularly African Americans."

The grand jury will continue proceedings on Wednesday.