Ashley Morris StarNews Staff

BRUNSWICK COUNTY -- District Attorney Jon David said Wednesday the Dec. 9 fatal shooting of a man by a Leland Police Department officer who was wounded in an exchange of gunfire was "legally justified."

David said Brent Matthew Quinn, the man who shot Officer Jacob Alan Schwenk, "had every intention to kill this officer."

The case is closed, David said, after an investigation by the N.C. State Bureau of Investigation. For the first time since the incident, he said, Schwenk was medically cleared Monday for an interview with the SBI and the case was closed less than 24 hours later.

Before the shooting, the investigation revealed, Quinn, a resident of Leland's Windsor Park neighborhood, was in a verbal altercation with his girlfriend. Before 9 p.m. multiple 911 calls alerted police to a white KIA sedan driving erratically all over the Bridgeport Way in the neighborhood, almost hitting mailboxes and taking out some bushes.

Schwenk, a Leland Police Department officer since May, immediately responded. As Schwenk approached the vehicle Quinn emerged unprovoked with a 9mm handgun and started to fire, said Assistant District Attorney Quintin McGee.

After firing six shots at Schwenk, one hitting a bullet proof vest and several others hitting his leg, Schwenk was able to fire at Quinn from a seated position on the ground, McGee said.

Of the six shots Schwenk fired at Quinn, the two that struck Quinn's face were fatal, David said. The entirety of the shootout lasted about 10 seconds before Schwenk radioed in that an officer was down.

"This man did exactly what he was trained to do and instinct kicked," David said, adding that had Schwenk not been able to fire back, he might not be alive. "It is quite frankly a bullet-proof vest, skill of a surgeon and the grace of God that Schwenk is among us."

David praised another Leland police officer for applying a tourniquet on Schwenk's leg and helping to save his life. Trained as an EMT, Schwenk talked the officer through putting the tourniquet on to stop the bleeding.

Schwenk, a married father of one, is doing well both physically and mentally in the recovery process, David said Wednesday.

"He's a fighter and I have every confidence he will make a full recovery," David said.

David praised Schwenk as not only being justified by law in using deadly force, but said the officer is a hero.

Quinn, a former Marine who lists his occupation on both a Linked In page and a Facebook page as a chemical operator for Fortron Industries in Wilmington, has no apparent criminal record.

During a press conference Wednesday, David said Quinn had two expensive handguns in his vehicle and had concealed carry permits.

David said he had a phone conversation this week with Quinn's ex-wife and his mother and sister in Wisconsin, offering to let them review the SBI investigation as well as come to the office and view footage from the scene. He said the family members were still grieving their loss and expressed concern for the officer, but said they were at peace with what happened.

On her own Facebook page, Schwenk’s wife Pamela thanked her husband’s supporters.

“He's doing pretty darn good, given the circumstances. I cannot begin to express my appreciation for everyone who has extended their love, prayers and help. The medical staff who have provided his treatment have been amazing. And the unbelievable outpouring of support from the law enforcement community has been overwhelming,” she wrote. “To all my friends in law enforcement, please use this as reminder of the importance of your training, and never underestimate the importance of your body armor, it almost certainly saved my husband's life.”

Reporter Ashley Morris can be reached at 910-343-2096 or Ashley.Morris@StarNewsOnline.com.