YORK, Neb. — A 53-year-old York man, Timothy Case, died after he was shot by police at York General Hospital early Sunday.

York Police Chief Don Klug said officers were dispatched to the hospital shortly after midnight because a man was reportedly wielding a knife and threatening hospital staff.

“When they arrived they issued the command for him to drop his knife, but he continued to threaten staff and was also threatening the police officers,” Klug said. “They deployed a Taser on the subject two times, both times to no avail.

“The subject continued to be threatening and was refusing to drop his weapon,” Klug said. “At that point they also attempted to deploy chemical means, using pepper spray, but again to no avail. Officers repeated commands for him to stop and drop his weapon, but he refused,” and advanced toward officers.

At that point, Klug said, one of the officers shot the man.

Case was taken by helicopter in critical condition to Bryan Medical Center in Lincoln. He later died, Klug said.

Klug said he did not know why Case was at York General.

Case had been outside the hospital, near the emergency entrance, when an altercation began, according to York General Hospital.

“Our staff and ER physician saw this situation begin to escalate outside the ER doors and contacted law enforcement immediately,” the hospital said in the statement. “It is because of this early contact along with the quick response that together we were able to resolve this situation without injury or harm to our patients and staff.”

The hospital declined to comment on why Case was there.

“This individual’s presence outside our ER is under investigation along with the rest of the incident, so no further comments or speculation will be given,” the statement said.

The officers involved in the incident were Roger Wolfe, who has been with the York Police Department since 1999, and Christopher Jepsen, who has been with the department since 2013. Information provided by police did not indicate which of the officers fired his weapon.

“Both officers have been placed on administrative leave at this time,” Klug said. “That is standard procedure. ... The officers did all they could to defuse the situation before having to take the action they did.”

The Nebraska State Patrol is conducting an investigation of the incident, and a grand jury will be convened. Under state law, a grand jury is convened to investigate any time a person dies in jail, while in custody or while law enforcement is trying to arrest the person.

This was the York Police Department’s first officer-involved shooting in about 15 years, Klug said.

World-Herald staff writer Kevin Cole contributed to this report.