PHILADELPHIA (CBS/AP) — Authorities say a federal marshal trying to serve a warrant shot and killed an armed attempted murder suspect in Philadelphia.

U.S. Marshals Service Assistant Chief Deputy Jim Burke says a task force including marshals and Philadelphia police was watching a home in the Oxford Circle neighborhood and saw Kenneth Robledo emerge Monday morning.

.@anita_oh Mother of Kenneth "Alex" Robledo, 28, says he was kind-hearted but on the run since he was allegedly involved in a July shooting pic.twitter.com/aLLC2N3DTl — Anita Oh (@anita_oh) December 12, 2016

Burke says members of the team followed, got out of their vehicles and ordered Robledo to stop. He says Robledo turned around, pulled out a firearm and pointed it at a deputy marshal, who fired several times.

Officials say Robledo was pronounced dead at the scene and a handgun was recovered.

"He was so kind-hearted," said Shirley Beal, Robledo's mother. "He has the biggest heart ever," she said before breaking down.

That was not the Robledo known to police.

Burke says Robledo was wanted in an attempted murder in July in Philadelphia. City police and prosecutors will investigate the shooting.

"He was so kind hearted," said Shirley Beal, Robledo's mother. "He has the biggest heart ever," she said before breaking down.

That was not the Robledo known to police. Robledo was wanted for shooting a man several times on July 21st. "The 400 block of W. Huntingdon, there's an individual sitting on the steps. This male, apparently with two other individuals, pull up in a vehicle, exits the vehicle and start shooting the individual," said Philadelphia Police Lt. John Stanford.

Beal tells Eyewitness News that since then, he had been on the run and cut off all communication with his family. "The last thing I heard from him, after he did what he did, was that he didn't want to live anymore. He was tired of living," she said.

Clearly overwhelmed with emotion, family and friends removed Robledo's belongings from inside the home he was staying in.

"His last words were I love you," said Beal.

The Philadelphia Police and U.S. Marshals are still investigating the circumstances of the police involved shooting.

CBS 3's Anita Oh contributed to this report.

(TM and © Copyright 2016 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2016 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.)