Greater Round Lake Fire Protection District personnel on the scene of a rollover accident in a pond at Rollins and Hainesville roads on Wednesday, Dec. 14, in Round Lake Beach (Joe Shuman / News-Sun)

A man who crashed into a Round Lake Beach detention pond after fleeing police in a stolen vehicle late Wednesday drowned and suffered blunt force trauma, authorities said.

According to a statement from the Round Lake Beach Police Department, Lake County Coroner Dr. Howard Cooper identified the driver as Earl W. Tarvin, 34, of Fox Lake. The statement added that an autopsy found Tarvin's primary cause of death for Tarvin was drowning, with a secondary cause of blunt force trauma from the motor vehicle crash.

Advertisement

Two women were rescued from the vehicle by Grayslake police officers on the scene just before 9 p.m. on Wednesday, and firefighters from the Greater Round Lake Fire Protection District pulled the driver from the vehicle. All three went to an area hospital where the man died, according to statements from the Round Lake Beach and Grayslake police departments.

Greater Round Lake Fire Protection District personnel on the scene of a rollover accident in a pond at Rollins and Hainesville roads on Wednesday, Dec. 14, in Round Lake Beach (Joe Shuman / News-Sun)

The suspect had been driving north on Hainesville Road near Washington Street in Grayslake just minutes before the crash when a Grayslake police officer behind him confirmed the vehicle had been stolen in Fox Lake days earlier.

Advertisement

The officer activated his squad's emergency lights and the suspect vehicle sped north, police said. Grayslake police terminated their pursuit when they got to Shorewood Road because they could no longer see the suspect vehicle, according to police.

A few minutes later, a Grayslake officer not involved in the initial pursuit located a vehicle on its roof in a detention pond at on the southeast corner of Hainesville and Rollins Roads and immediately called for help, according to police.

Several Grayslake police officers entered the pond on foot and were able to extricate the two female occupants from the partially submerged vehicle.Firefighters extricated Tarvin, according to police.

Deputy Chief Michael Scott of the Round Lake Beach Police Department said the investigation is being handled by the Major Crash Assistance Team of Lake County.

According to Lake County Circuit Court records, Tarvin had a list of offenses dating back to a felony obstruction charge in April 2008. Other charges since then include felony aggravated battery, felony violation of an order of protection, possession of stolen property and burglary in April 2015.

This year, he had been charged with theft and possession of stolen property, possession of drug paraphernalia and felony possession of a controlled substance, according to court records.

fabderholden@tribpub.com

Twitter @abderholden