The deputies who fired shots killing a 48-year-old Arlington man won't be charged, the office of the Shelby County District Attorney General said Monday.

According to a limited, redacted version of the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation file on the shooting, two Shelby County Sheriff's deputies responded Dec. 17, 2016 to a call in the 9500 block of Osborn Road about a man exhibiting violent behavior and encountered Jimmy Lee Lawson who was armed with a knife.

According to 911 calls, Lawson, who had a history of domestic violence, suicidal thoughts and alcoholism, was drunk, trying to hurt a woman in the house and using a racial slur yelling that he was going to kill black people.

"Upon arrival at the crime scene, Shelby County Sheriff officials advised agents that Lawson confronted deputies with a knife in a threatening manner resulting in both (deputies) firing their duty weapons," according to the file.

Lawson was shot twice — once in the chest and once in the abdomen and pronounced dead at the scene. A steak knife with a black handle was found close to Lawson.

According to the file, Deputy Peter Coletta said Lawson ran toward them with a knife in his right hand raised in a "hammering or stabbing pose." Coletta said he told Lawson to drop the knife, but Lawson said, "You'll have to (expletive) kill me" and kept running toward the deputies.

Coletta and Deputy Evan Goudy said they were afraid for their lives, pulled their guns and fired at Lawson from about 10 to 15 feet away.

No body cameras, video or other witnesses to the shooting was available, according to the file.

DA Amy Weirich said in a letter to Sheriff Bill Oldham that the deputies were not at fault and that they "had to make a lethal force decision in nearly an instant."

“It was a tragic situation for everyone,” she said in a statement Monday. “The officers had only seconds to react and had no other choice, yet they will have to live with that night the rest of their lives. Mr. Lawson’s family has suffered the loss of someone very important in their lives.”

The redacted file was released at www.scdag.com/officer-involved-shootings.