Tulsa police have identified the officer, suspect and victim of a Sunday homicide and related fatal officer-involved shooting.

Tulsa police identified the male shooting suspect whom police shot and killed Sunday as Ronald Roy Massengale, 72, of Tulsa. Massengale reportedly shot and killed his wife, Jacquelyn Massengale, 67, of Tulsa, according to a news release from Tulsa police spokesman Leland Ashley.

Officer Steve Dickson, 41, fatally shot Ronald Massengale about 1:10 p.m. Sunday while responding to a shots-fired call in the 4500 block of West Eighth Street.

Dickson has worked for the Tulsa Police Department for 18 years, according to Ashley. Dickson is on paid administrative leave, Ashley said.

“That is common practice when an officer is involved in a shooting with a fatality,” Ashley said.

Police arrived about five minutes after the initial call and encountered a man outside the home, Ashley said. Shortly after, the man reportedly walked toward officers and pointed a gun at them.

Dickson fired several shots, killing Ronald Massengale. When officers entered the Massengale residence, they found Jacquelyn Massengale dead from a gunshot wound, three dead dogs and one injured dog.

The Massengales reportedly lived in that neighborhood for about three decades. In June 2016, a local pastor filed a petition for a protective order, which was dismissed a month later, against Ronald Massengale. The pastor alleged in the petition that Ronald Massengale berated the pastor.

He allegedly told the pastor he is “of the devil, you all speak in tongues,” according to the petition. A Tulsa County judge ordered Ronald Massengale to surrender all firearms to law enforcement in an emergency protective order.

The petition for the protective order stemmed from at least two instances of Ronald Massengale berating the pastor.

Ronald Massengale also had a former conviction for beating or injury of children, according to Oklahoma Department of Corrections records. He served a four-year probationary sentence from 1979 to 1983 for the conviction.

The double homicide Sunday marked the 77th and 78th homicides for 2016 in Tulsa. The previous record of 71 was set in 2009, according to Tulsa World and Tulsa Police Department records.

Tulsa homicide detectives consider Courtney Palmer, 23, of Tulsa, as the 76th homicide victim. Palmer was reported missing in November. Palmer witnessed the Nov. 8 shooting of Carl Harris at Tamarack Place apartments located on 1110 E. 60th St.

Tulsa’s 78 homicides put the city at 19.3 homicides per 100,000 people when calculated from the city’s 2015 population estimate from the Census Bureau, about a 6 percent increase when compared to 2009.

Police attributed the majority of 2009’s homicides to gang-related activities. However, this year’s homicides don’t seem to fit a pattern, Tulsa Police Sgt. Dave Walker said in a previous interview.

“I don’t see any common thread,” Walker said. “They’re happening in all parts of the city. They’re happening for all types of reasons.”

The majority of the homicides this year have involved people with a relationship. Walker said once homicide detectives make those connections, it is usually easy to put a suspect into custody.

“There’s a lot of guns involved,” Walker said Monday. “And there’s a relationship, some sort of relationship, between our victims and suspects.”

About 73 percent of homicides in 2016 involved gunshot wounds. Fifteen of the homicides stemmed from domestic situations, 20 from altercations and up to six from ongoing disputes, according to Tulsa Police Department statistics.

Detectives have closed 73 of the 78 cases, according to Walker.

harrison.grimwood @tulsaworld.com

Twitter: @grimwood_hmg