The Mobile District Attorney's Office released new details into the shooting of Saraland Police Officer Jackie Tucker on Friday morning. The most intriguing discovery in the investigation revealed that the deceased shooter, 27-year-old Matthew Blake Richardson, committed suicide after shooting at officer Tucker and her partner.

Mobile District Attorney Ashley Rich, stood at a podium outside of her office at Mobile District Court, flanked by Saraland Police Department Chief J.C. West and two of his officers.

Rich said the autopsy report for Richardson revealed that he was only shot by Tucker's partner, officer Ron Hannah one time.

"He was shot in the arm and it went through the chest and lodged in the rib cage," said Rich.

However, that was not the fatal shot that killed Richardson, according to Rich.

"Matthew Blake Richardson committed suicide by shooting himself in the head after he had been shot by officer Hannah," said Rich.

Rich looked down at her statement on the podium, gathered her thoughts with a slight pause after making the statement. She followed that by delving into the circumstances that led to the shooting.

Officers Tucker and Hannah responded to a domestic violence disturbance at Richardson's residence located at 1118 Martha Alleyn Drive in Saraland in the late night hours of December 21, 2016.

The Saraland Police Department received a call from Richardson's grandmother about some problems he had been causing at the home. Richardson lived in a smaller residence on the property.

Rich said officers Hannah and Tucker spoke with the grandmother before approaching Richardson and they were aware he was armed.

Rich said this was not the first time the Saraland Police Department had dealt with Richardson, who had been dealing with mental illness issues, according to his grandfather.

"Thirteen times this (in 2016) year alone so they were familiar with Matthew Richardson and they were familiar with the grandparents," said Rich.

When the officers approached the door of Richardson's residence, they asked him to come out. Rich said before he came out, he racked his gun, stuck his hand out of the door and opened fire.

"They did everything they were supposed to do and followed protocol," said Rich.

Rich said officer Hannah quickly returned fire shooting six to seven times from his .40 caliber service weapon. Hannah was not struck and helped get officer Tucker to safety. The two took cover until back-up and medical services could arrive.

"Officer Hannah dragged officer Tucker behind a patrol car getting her out of the line of fire," said Rich "it was a heroic effort on his part and he did everything he could to try to control the situation that was going on."

Rich said that officer Hannah, who is a eight-year police veteran and has spent the last six years working for the Saraland Police Department, is now back on duty, but has undergone therapy treatment.

"He has completed all of the necessary protocol to return to duty," said Rich "it's very important that make sure that a officer is ready and fit to return to duty after an incident like this."

>Rich said her office shared the autopsy findings with Richardson's family a few days after the incident occurred. Investigators at the scene of the shooting were not able to determine what weapon Richardson used to commit suicide.

According to Rich, there were many different types of shell casings inside of Richardson's home. The bullet that struck officer Tucker did not lodge inside of her, so there was no evidence of what type of weapon Richardson fired.

"We will never know what weapon was used," said Rich "we believe he shot himself with a .40 caliber glock as well but what type of gun he used to shoot at officer Tucker is unclear."

As Rich stepped aside, Saraland Police Chief J.C. West stepped in front of the podium to give an update on officer Tucker's condition.

"The fact is she is still in ICU and struggling and making some small steps and we anticipate her to be in that status for at least two more weeks," said West.

Tucker had been working for the Saraland PD for several years in the patrol division. West said Tucker still has not been able to fully communicate with anyone. At this time, they are still asking for the community to send their prayers out to officer Tucker and her family as she recovers.

The Saraland Police Department is holding a benefit at The Wintzell's Oyster House located at 1208 Shelton Beach Road in Saraland on Tuesday January 17.

10% of all sales at the restaurant on Tuesday will be donated to her family. West said they also plan to more events in support of officer Tucker later this year.

"A 3K and 5K run and a softball tournament sometime in April, but we are still getting those plans together," said West "but her fight is not over."