A raving, knife-wielding man was shot dead by police on a Bronx subway train after rubber bullets, stun guns and a water cannon failed to stop him from slashing a cop, authorities said yesterday. "I'm God, I'm God," Kedrian Edwards, 19, raged at cops Sunday night, police said. Cornered in an empty No. 2 subway car, Edwards was shot four times in the chest and arms after he broke free and slashed a police lieutenant with a kitchen knife. Police defended the fatal shooting, saying cops followed procedure and tried everything short of lethal force to subdue him. "They followed the tactical plan from beginning to end," said Capt. James Klein, a police spokesman. Edwards, a grocery deliverer from the Bronx, had a history of mental problems and may have gone off his medication, relatives told cops. Cops said he had a fight with his girlfriend over the weekend and called her Sunday to warn he had to "get the devil out of her.

" The subway drama unfolded a few hours later when frightened riders told the conductor a bare-chested man was waving two knives inside the southbound train shortly before 10:30 p.

Advertisement

m. The conductor called cops, and dozens of passengers ran to safety when the train pulled into the E. 180th St. station. Edwards stayed in the front car, angrily stabbing the plastic seats with the knives, police said. "Shoot me, shoot me," Edwards shouted as several cops massed outside the car. Police said they first fired two rubber bullets into Edwards' chest, then sprayed him with a blast from a portable water cannon, and finally hit him with darts from two stun guns. 'Very caring person' Hoping to disarm the disturbed teen, cops finally moved in with riot shields. But the 6-foot-1, 170-pound Edwards broke free and lunged at Lt. Marc Porter, slashing him on the arm, cops said. Detective James Malley unloaded four bullets into Edwards, who was pronounced dead at Jacobi Medical Center, cops said. Edwards' sister refused last night to discuss her brother's mental state, but called him "a very caring person.

" "He wasn't violent. He wasn't angry," Quacy-Ann Johnson, 16, said outside the family's brick home in Baychester, Bronx. At the D'Agostino store on Manhattan's East Side where Edwards worked, friends called him a quiet, reliable employee. But Vivian Roman, a cashier, said Edwards confided that he had a nervous breakdown last fall. "He had his problems," said Roman, 39, "but he loved life.

Advertisement

" Four people have been fatally shot by NYPD cops this year, compared with 11 all of last year and 14 in 2000, police said.