Jose Luis Sanchez, a 30-year-old Latino, died on Friday, Dec. 23, after he was shot by police officers at the intersection of Esto Avenue and Fieldcrest Street in El Monte, according to Los Angeles County authorities.

Sanchez, who lived in San Bernardino, was driving a mid-sized SUV about 9:35 p.m. when El Monte police officers tried to stop him for a drunken driving investigation near the intersection of Valley Boulevard and Tyler Avenue, said Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Lt. Steve Jauch.

When Sanchez refused to stop, officers gave chase, pursuing him for nearly two miles, to Esto Avenue and Fieldcrest Street, Jauch said. Officers laid down spiked strips to try to stop Sanchez, but "they had no effect," Jauch said.

During the pursuit, Sanchez’s SUV collided with another vehicle at Arden Drive and Valley Boulevard, Jauch said.

The people in the other vehicle were not injured, Jauch said, and Sanchez continued driving until he stopped in a cul-de-sac on Fieldcrest Street.

Officers parked at the mouth of the cul-de-sac and got out of their cars, standing behind their doors and shouting at Sanchez to get out of his idling car, Jauch said.

Instead, Sanchez drove into the intersection, made a U-turn and then drove directly at the officers, Jauch said. Three officers fired, striking Sanchez multiple times.

The SUV stopped in the intersection, Jauch said. Sanchez was pronounced dead at the scene at 9:45 p.m. with multiple gunshot wounds, according to coroner’s records.

A fourth El Monte police officer who was driving to join the pursuit was injured when she collided with another car at the corner of Valley Mall and Santa Anita Avenue, Jauch said.

The officer was treated for minor injuries and released. The other motorist was admitted to the hospital after complaining of back pain, Jauch said. The injury was not life threatening, he said.

Sheriff’s homicide detectives are investigating the shooting. Anyone with information is asked to call the sheriff’s Homicide Bureau at (323) 890-5500. Those wishing to remain anonymous should call Crime Stoppers at (800) 222-8477.

Contact the Homicide Report. Follow @latimeshomicide on Twitter.