Five police officers were legally justified in shooting a suspect 20 times on Christmas Day after he killed his estranged wife, shot a state trooper and then waited to ambush them, the Washington County District Attorney's Office said Wednesday.

The DA's memo offers dramatic details of what happened late on the holiday night when James Tylka wounded trooper Nic Cederberg and then shot the trooper with his own gun as he lay bleeding outside his patrol car.

Tylka hid in nearby bushes as he waited for other officers to arrive to the neighborhood near Sherwood and shot himself in the head during a hail of 38 bullets from the five officers, the report said.

"All officers believed James Tylka was attempting to shoot them or shoot fellow officers at the time they fired their weapons," the memo said.

Cederberg was the first officer to engage Tylka near Sherwood and the two fired at each other while outside their cars, the memo said. The trooper radioed that Tylka, 30, was shooting at him. About two minutes later, dispatch radioed an alert that Cederberg's life was in danger.

After Cederberg was hit and went down, Tylka walked over to him, took the trooper's gun and shot him again, the memo said. Tylka then walked around their cars, leaving a trail of blood and holed up in dense vegetation on a hill about 10 yards away to apparently attack anyone coming to help Cederberg, according to the memo.

Officers found Cederberg lying on the ground near the driver's side door of his car and didn't know where Tylka was. The officers -- Hillsboro Officer Anthony Cristofaro, Tualatin Officer Eli Sanders and Sherwood Officers Stan Smith, Joe Twigg and Chris Pierce -- grouped together and moved toward the injured trooper.

Smith said he soon spotted Tylka with a flashlight.

Tylka was bloody, appeared to be crouched on an embankment and holding a gun, Pierce said. Some of the officers said Tylka was aiming at them.

All the officers reported seeing Tylka's gun go off, but it's not clear where he shot. The officers returned fire, ranging from 19 shots from Cristofaro's Colt M4 rifle and 17 from Sanders' Smith and Wesson M&P pistol to one shot each from Smith and Pierce's Glock 21 pistols.

After Tylka went down, Twigg, an Army National Guard veteran, provided medical aid to Cederberg and saved the trooper's life, the memo said. None of the five officers were injured.

An autopsy found Tylka was shot 21 times in his upper and lower torso and in the head from an apparent self-inflicted wound, the memo said. His blood alcohol level was .11 percent when he died. The memo doesn't say which shot killed him.

An investigation continues on how many times Cederberg fired his pistol at Tylka, the memo said. His family said he was shot 12 times. He was released from OHSU Hospital earlier this month.

Before shooting the trooper, Tylka shot his 24-year-old wife, Katelynn Armand-Tylka, eight times outside his parents' house in King City. The two had been separated for a year and a half and Armand-Tylka had just driven to the home to drop off the couple's 11-month-old daughter before she went to work.

Tylka drove away after the shooting. He called his mother and texted his wife's sister and friend claiming he killed his wife. He bought the gun he used in the killing from a private seller in Portland on Christmas Eve.

A review from the district attorney's office found Tylka had sent his wife hundreds of text messages threatening to kill her and begging her to take him back. Investigators found a completed but unfiled petition for a restraining order against Tylka in his wife's car, the memo said.

There was also an anniversary card from Tylka to his wife with a handwritten note that said, "I am sorry for what I am about to do."

-- Everton Bailey Jr.

ebailey@oregonian.com

503-221-8343; @EvertonBailey