The Weld County Commissioners are seeking applicants for appointment to volunteer positions on the Board of Public Health. The board advises the commissioners on issues related to the public health of Weld County citizens.

The board meets the fourth Tuesday of each month at 9 a.m., and the monthly time commitment is three hours.

A pool of applicants is being established. Applicants can reside anywhere in Weld County. There are also two openings that require applicants live within specific geographic areas: east of 14th Avenue in Greeley/Evans; Kersey; Gill; Barnesville; Roggen; Keenesburg; Hudson; Masters; Dearfield or Fort Lupton.

For further information or an application, contact Vicky Sprague at 970-336-7204 or vsprague@co.weld.co.us. Applications are also available at www.co.weld.co.us. Applications will be accepted through May 19.

WELD COUNTY

Do you complain about the weather, but can’t do anything about it?

While the upcoming classes really can’t help you do anything to change the weather, they will help you to know what’s coming.

The Weld County Sheriff’s Office and the National Weather Service are hosting weather spotter training at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the sheriff’s southwest county sub-station at Del Camino.

The National Weather Service conducts spotter training each year during March, April and May due to the hazards of severe weather. The talks are open to the public and there is no registration required.

For more information, contact Weld County Emergency Manager Roy Rudisill at 356-4015 ext. 3990.

WELD COUNTY

Weld County Citizen Corps and the Weld County Office of Emergency Management will host training classes on emergency response teams from 7-9:30 p.m. Thursdays for eight weeks beginning May 11 at the Weld County Training Center, 1104 H St. in Greeley.

The program trains people to be better prepared in emergency situations. CERT training includes disaster preparedness, fire suppression, basic disaster medical operations and light search and rescue operations.

Applications may be picked up at the Weld County Sheriff’s Office. Questions: contact Deputy Roy Rudisill, 356-4015, Ext. 3990.

GREELEY

An international organization has made Aims Community College’s fire science program its only accredited fire science program in the state.

The International Fire Service Accreditation Congress unanimously approved accreditation for Aims at an annual meeting April 22 in Dublin, Ohio. Aims is now one of 16 programs in the world accredited by the congress.

The congress reviewed the Aims program to confirm course offerings, institutional support and qualified faculty work together to complete the college’s educational mission. A site team of congress representatives from agencies in Alaska, Utah and Texas visited Aims in March.

Staff reports