Indiana State Police are investigating after a suspect was killed in an officer-involved shooting Wednesday in Crawford County. Officials in Harrison County confirmed that it was one of their deputies involved in the shooting. They confirmed that the deputy is OK, saying, "He gets to go home to his family tonight." Sources said the suspect was wanted in connection with a stabbing in Henry County, Kentucky -- near New Castle -- and that the vehicle he was driving was involved in a hit-and-run in Harrison County. The pursuit began after the hit-and-run in Harrison County and ended in Crawford County, according to officials. During the pursuit, officials said the man rammed a law enforcement vehicle, got out of his vehicle and charged the officer with a weapon. We're told that's when the officer fired his weapon. ISP Jasper Post will handle the investigation. Interstate 64 at mile marker 88 has been shut down in both directions during the investigation, and will be closed for about two hours. Authorities said they are not looking for any one else in the incident, and that the "the community is safe." Officials have not released the identity of the man killed.

Indiana State Police are investigating after a suspect was killed in an officer-involved shooting Wednesday in Crawford County.

Officials in Harrison County confirmed that it was one of their deputies involved in the shooting. They confirmed that the deputy is OK, saying, "He gets to go home to his family tonight."

Advertisement

Sources said the suspect was wanted in connection with a stabbing in Henry County, Kentucky -- near New Castle -- and that the vehicle he was driving was involved in a hit-and-run in Harrison County.



The pursuit began after the hit-and-run in Harrison County and ended in Crawford County, according to officials.



During the pursuit, officials said the man rammed a law enforcement vehicle, got out of his vehicle and charged the officer with a weapon. We're told that's when the officer fired his weapon.

ISP Jasper Post will handle the investigation.

Interstate 64 at mile marker 88 has been shut down in both directions during the investigation, and will be closed for about two hours.



Authorities said they are not looking for any one else in the incident, and that the "the community is safe."

Officials have not released the identity of the man killed.

