UPDATED at 11:15 a.m. with ID of man shot by police.

ST. LOUIS • A man in a crashed SUV was shot and killed by a St. Louis officer Monday after he pointed a gun at police, authorities say.

No officers were injured in the shooting, about 12:30 p.m. on Page Boulevard west of North Taylor Avenue, Police Chief Sam Dotson said during a news conference Monday afternoon at the department’s headquarters.

The dead man was identified Tuesday as Davion Henderson, 21, of the 100 block of Anistasia Drive in Hazelwood.

Officers first spotted the SUV near Goodfellow and Page boulevards after an automated police license plate reader alerted them that the vehicle had been reported stolen, Dotson said.

They tried to stop the car, but it fled. Police did not pursue the car, Dotson said.

As police were seeking help tracking the vehicle from a police helicopter, the SUV flipped on its side in the front yard of a home on the south side of Page, west of Taylor.

Police arrived a short time later. As two officers approached, one of three males inside the car pointed a gun at them, Dotson said. One of the officers fired at that man, later identified as Henderson, four to six times, Dotson said.

Henderson was taken to a hospital with critical injuries and was later pronounced dead, Dotson said.

Dotson said the two other occupants of the car, ages 16 and 23, had minor injuries from the crash. They were not injured in the shooting. They are in police custody and might face charges, Dotson said.

Esha Smith said she had just dropped her son off at nearby Ranken Technical College when she came upon the scene, apparently moments after the shooting. Smith said she saw the silver vehicle on its side, and police removing three occupants.

“Two of them came out of there with their hands up, like they were all right,” she said. “They got the third one out and he pretty much appeared lifeless. They tried to resuscitate him but he seemed limp.”

Dotson said police found two guns inside the car, one with an extended magazine. One had been reported stolen in Florissant in December. The other had been defaced.

Henderson was on probation for a burglary he pleaded guilty to in 2014, authorities said. He also had a conviction for unlawful use of a weapon. The 23-year-old passenger was also on probation, Dotson said. The officer who fired the fatal shots has been on the force for about five years, Dotson said.

The SUV had been reported stolen Thursday in Berkeley, but Dotson did not have additional information about that incident.

The officer who shot Henderson, a 34-year-old man with more than five years on the force, was put on administrative leave as the shooting is investigated, as is department policy. The department's Force Investigative Unit will handle the probe.

Joe Holleman of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.