AUSTIN — The man who was killed in an officer-involved shooting and the officer who was injured during the altercation have been identified Friday by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

The deceased was identified as Ronald Dean Johnson, 41, of Austin. According to the BCA, Johnson died from a gunshot wound to the head. On Wednesday, the Austin Police Department and the Mower County Sheriff's Office responded to a 911 call regarding a domestic disturbance.

According to the BCA's preliminary investigations, a woman who was visiting Johnson at his residence at 1010 Eighth Ave. SW, told him she was leaving. Johnson pulled out a knife, refused to allow her to leave and forced her upstairs.

When officers and deputies entered the house, they made verbal contact with Johnson, who said if they attempted to come to the second floor, he would "cut her." When the woman started to scream, authorities tried to climb the stairs to the second level.

Reports say that Johnson began throwing items down at the officers, hitting Austin police officer Chad Norman with a window air conditioning unit and a glass bottle. Norman fired his weapon, striking Johnson.

ADVERTISEMENT

Johnson was taken by Gold Cross to Mayo Clinic Health System in Austin, and later airlifted to Mayo Clinic in Rochester, where he died from his injuries. Norman was taken to Mayo Clinic Health System in Austin, where he was treated, then released.

The woman who was at the house was not stabbed during the altercation, but she was assaulted before law enforcement arrived on scene.

Norman, who was placed on standard administrative leave, has worked for the Austin Police Department for 14 years. No other officers or deputies fired their weapon during the confrontation. BCA crime scene personnel found several knives and blades at the scene.

There were no body cameras or other video footage of the incident.

The BCA is investigating the incident for the Austin Police Department. Once the investigation is finished, then the agency will turn its findings over to the Olmsted County Attorney's Office for review.