abduction.jpg

Authorities say criminal charges are pending against an Idaho man who reportedly stabbed a woman in Ontario, Oregon, drove her away from the scene in a pickup and crashed head-on into an SUV along Oregon 201. The woman and the SUV driver were pronounced dead at the scene. (Oregon State Police)

(Oregon State Police)

The woman allegedly stabbed at an Ontario convenience store and then found dead at the scene of a car crash was married at one time to the Idaho man accused of attacking her, authorities said Tuesday.

Autopsy results are still pending to determine if Annita Harmon, 40, died of stab wounds or from injuries sustained in Monday's head-on crash along Oregon 201, said Malheur County District Attorney David Goldthorpe.

Court records show that she was married to Anthony Montwheeler, 49, of Nampa, Idaho, several years ago, but she filed for divorce in November 2014. Their divorce was finalized in June 2015, according to Idaho court records.

Harmon was in a pickup driven by Montwheeler that fled from the convenience store as police gave chase. The pickup collided with an SUV a short time later. Harmon died at the scene and Montwheeler was seriously injured.

The driver of the SUV, David Bates, 38, of Vale also died in the crash, Goldthorpe said. A passenger in the SUV, Jessica Bates, 35, of Vale, sustained serious injuries.

A GoFundMe page was created on behalf of David and Jessica Bates and has raised more than $38,000 since Monday. Their fundraising page said the couple have five children together.

Goldthorpe said he plans to present the case to a grand jury to consider charges against Montwheeler, but didn't know when that would happen.

Harmon is believed to have been kidnapped by Montwheeler before they pulled up early Monday to JNJ Corner Store and Gas Station in Ontario for gas, Goldthorpe said.

Ontario Police Chief Cal Kunz said the woman's car was found abandoned in Weiser, Idaho, about 20 miles north of Ontario. Goldthorpe said Harmon lived in Weiser.

Someone at the gas station called 911 about 5:50 a.m. while gas was being pumped into the pickup to report that the driver was stabbing Harmon, Goldthorpe said.

Montwheeler is a former co-owner of an Idaho-based scrap-metal company and was convicted in 2012 of first-degree aggravated theft in Grant County for underpaying an elderly couple by about $10,000 for scrap metal. He was sentenced to two years in prison. Harmon, his wife at the time, was convicted of the same charge and was sentenced to 16 months in prison, court records show.

The two later successfully appealed the convictions and they were dismissed last October, court records show.

-- Everton Bailey Jr.

ebailey@oregonian.com

503-221-8343; @EvertonBailey