MARANDA FARIS

MFARIS2@JACKSONSUN.COM

A 23-year-old man was shot and killed Tuesday night by Henderson County deputies after officers responded to a man beating on the door of a home in Reagan, Tennessee.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is investigating the shooting, spokesman Josh DeVine confirmed

DeVine said two deputies responded to a report of a man beating on a door at 50 Tumbleweed Lane around 11 p.m. Tuesday, and found Darrion Barnhill outside the home.

Deputies ordered Barnhill to surrender because he had outstanding warrants.

Barnhill had two warrants for failure to appear and one warrant for aggravated assault. His girlfriend had also filed for an order of protection against him, but the order had not been served.

It is unknown if his girlfriend lives at the home, or if the residents of the home called 911.

When Barnhill was ordered to surrender, he began to assault the officers at the home.

"He instead became aggressive to the deputies, assaulting both of them and slamming one of them to the ground," DeVine said in a news conference.

It is unknown if Barnhill reached for a deputy's weapon. DeVine said Barnhill is not believed to have been armed at the time of the shooting.

Barnhill was first shocked with a Taser gun after refusing to comply to deputies' requests.

"We're working to determine what the set of events were. We have information that the officers tried to deescalate the situation," DeVine said. "One of them apparently deployed a Taser at some point in an effort to stop this situation and get him under control."

DeVine said Barnhill was shot between 50 and 52 Tumbleweed Lane, but could not confirm how many times Barnhill was shot.

One deputy fired at Barnhill, DeVine said. Barnhill was taken to Jackson-Madison County General Hospital for treatment, where he died from his injury.

Barnhill has a criminal history including attempted murder, aggravated domestic assault, attempted aggravated burglary, as well as drug and weapons charges.

The attempted murder charge, which stemmed from a 2013 shooting in Henderson County, was dismissed, according to court documents.

DeVine said it was unknown if Barnhill was on any intoxicants, but his body has been sent for an autopsy. Barnhill is not believed to have had any prior mental health concerns, DeVine said.

Henderson County Sheriff Brian Duke said one deputy has been placed on administrative leave through the investigation. The deputies' names are not being released at this time.

Reach Maranda Faris at (731) 425-9657. Follow her on Twitter: @MarandaFaris