VINELAND, Minn. - A 20-year-old man involved in an armed home invasion and assault late Thursday night in northern Mille Lacs County was shot and killed by a responding sheriff's deputy, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension reported Friday.

According to the preliminary investigation, at 10:50 p.m. Thursday four men broke into a home on the 17000 block of Ookweman Loop in Vineland with plans to carry out a robbery. Three of the men wore masks and one carried a sawed-off shotgun. There were more than a dozen people inside of the home at the time of the home invasion. The intruders assaulted several people and one intruder fired his weapon at least once. No one was injured by gunfire. Several people in the home fled into a back bedroom, barricaded the door and called 911.

As three deputies from the Mille Lacs County Sheriff's Office arrived at the scene, two of the four intruders were exiting the home. Both were taken into custody. One of the deputies entered the home and located a third intruder in a bedroom with a shotgun pointed at several people. When the intruder refused to drop the shotgun, the deputy fired his weapon, fatally striking the man. The two other deputies entered the home and arrested the fourth intruder without incident.

One of the people injured during the home invasion was treated at the scene by emergency medical technicians from Mille Lacs Health System in Onamia.

The Midwest Medical Examiner's Office has identified the deceased as Jamison Christopher Anderson, 20, Vineland. An autopsy is underway.

ADVERTISEMENT

The deputy who fired his weapon is Deputy Daniel Mott. Mott has been with the Mille Lacs County Sheriff's Office for 14 years. He has been placed on standard administrative leave.

The three arrested suspects were booked into the Mille Lacs County Jail on assault, burglary and robbery charges: Gabriel Levi Chips, 21, of Brainerd; Tommy Thomas Corrales, 31, Bayport; and Justin Lee Mitchell, 34, Onamia.

There is no body-worn camera or other video of the incident. The BCA, Mille Lacs County Sheriff's Office and the Mille Lacs Tribal Police Department are jointly investigating the home invasion and assaults.

The Mille Lacs Tribal Police Department, Minnesota State Patrol, Isle and Onamia police departments and the Crow Wing County Sheriff's Office provided assistance at the scene. When the officer involved shooting investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its findings over to the Mille Lacs County Attorney's Office for review.