A man fleeing from police Saturday morning was struck and killed while attempting to cross I-59 near Argo. According to authorities, Jakeel Brown, 20, of Forestdale, was suspected of breaking into his ex-girlfriend's house in the 7600 block of Old Springs Road in an attempted burglary about 4:00am Saturday. Brown fired shots at the 18-year-old victim and her parents, striking the teen girl, police said. Officers say the girl's father then starting shooting at Brown. Brown then took off in a yellow Chevrolet Camaro, later crashing it on I-59 near Argo, according to the Jeffferson County Sheriff's Office. Authorities said Brown was struck and killed in attempt to flee on foot on the interstate. The motorist was not killed. The ex-girlfriend was taken to a hospital and is expected to be ok. Brown's attorney, Sam Shaw, says Brown was previously charged in a case where he was accused of breaking into an ex-girlfriend's apartment and assaulting her boyfriend. "Honestly, I'm shocked. He seemed like a good kid. I remember he was either already enlisted in the military or he was about to enlist.", said Mr. Shaw about today's incident.

A man fleeing from police Saturday morning was struck and killed while attempting to cross I-59 near Argo.

According to authorities, Jakeel Brown, 20, of Forestdale, was suspected of breaking into his ex-girlfriend's house in the 7600 block of Old Springs Road in an attempted burglary about 4:00am Saturday.

Advertisement

Brown fired shots at the 18-year-old victim and her parents, striking the teen girl, police said.

Officers say the girl's father then starting shooting at Brown.



Brown then took off in a yellow Chevrolet Camaro, later crashing it on I-59 near Argo, according to the Jeffferson County Sheriff's Office.

Authorities said Brown was struck and killed in attempt to flee on foot on the interstate. The motorist was not killed.

The ex-girlfriend was taken to a hospital and is expected to be ok.

Brown's attorney, Sam Shaw, says Brown was previously charged in a case where he was accused of breaking into an ex-girlfriend's apartment and assaulting her boyfriend.

"Honestly, I'm shocked. He seemed like a good kid. I remember he was either already enlisted in the military or he was about to enlist.", said Mr. Shaw about today's incident.

