Therese Apel

USA TODAY NETWORK - Mississippi

Hinds County Sheriff Victor Mason asked the public Saturday to give his department time to ascertain what was going on Friday night when an apparent police pursuit led to a fatal crash.

Virgil Kyles, 34, Rose Coleman, 43, and Carolyn Conerly, 47, were killed and two others were injured that wreck, which took place around 8 p.m. Friday on Robinson Road near the I-220 overpass.

“Give us our time to clean this up, to clear this up, and don’t rush to judgment,” Mason said. “Yes, there were lives lost and we want to get to the bottom of how they were lost, and we will do that.”

Jackson Police Department confirmed the fatalities and injuries via their Twitter account. JPD Tyree Jones said a Chevrolet pickup was attempting to elude a roadblock being conducted by Hinds County deputies. It fled the scene and was being pursued by a deputy when it crashed into the Pontiac carrying Kyles, Coleman and Conerly.

Hinds County Coroner Sharon Grisham-Stewart confirmed all three occupants of the Pontiac died Friday night.

Mason said although JPD is calling it a chase, he is not.

“We’re calling it an ongoing investigation,” he said. “We are still in the early stages of the investigation. The investigation was initiated last night. It is not complete, and it is still ongoing. Witnesses are still being interviewed, and we want everyone to be patient.”

The crash is the second on Friday to come during a pursuit by Hinds County. A woman and her 4-year-old granddaughter are OK after their vehicle was struck Friday by a vehicle fleeing Hinds County deputies.

Mason said his department does have a pursuit policy, and that it is clear about when to engage and when to disengage.

“The deputies are trained in that policy. The policy is not vague, it is straight to the point,” he said. “We are cognizant of the fact that in a pursuit there is life, there is property, and we are mindful of that.”

Through the years, police pursuits have been a highly controversial topic, with many people saying they shouldn’t happen because of the risks. Law enforcement officers have widely said that there are appropriate situations under which police should pursue fleeing suspects.

“Everyone has a right to their own opinion, and you can’t stop people from talking, they’re gonna talk regardless. But let’s get the truth,” Mason said. “Let’s get the facts out before you jump us. Because it’s not fair for you to look at it one-sided.”

The driver and passenger in the pickup were injured and taken to a local hospital, and their statuses are not currently available. Their identities have not yet been released.

Mason said at this point no charges have been pressed against the driver of the pickup, and that Hinds County and JPD would work together to determine if charges are necessary.

“If you are violating the law, there’s no need to run. Just face it,” Mason said. “You can’t drive around drunk or with illegal tags or whatever. You have to be aware that when you do that, you endanger the lives of everybody.”

The investigation could take some time, the sheriff said.

“There’s no time limit on it if you want it done right,” he said. “I told my guys don’t rush, please don’t.”

Mason asked that people respect the privacy of the families involved in the situation.

“We are very sorry that this happened. I ask that you pray for the families of the innocent, and you pray for us, and you pray for everyone that was involved,” he said.