Philip Jankowski

pjankowski@statesman.com

Austin police have identified the man killed in a fatal police shooting on Saturday as 47-year-old Scott Laurance Gilpin.

Gilpin died after a 2 ½-year veteran of Austin police shot him near a Northwest Austin church. Police on Tuesday also identified that officer as Jesse Lane.

Lane is assigned to patrol in Northwest Austin. He is on paid administrative leave while police investigate the incident, which is standard for officers involved in fatal police shootings.

Austin police are conducting concurrent internal and criminal investigations into the shooting. The Austin police monitor’s office is also conducting an investigation. A Travis County grand jury will review the shooting.

The president of Austin’s police union said Gilpin had made statements indicating that he wanted to die before Lane opened fire.

“Unfortunately the subject (Gilpin) in this case forced the matter,” Ken Casaday said. “It was clear the guy wanted to die.”

The shooting happened outside of Hope Presbyterian Church on Olson Drive, near Anderson Mill Road and U.S. 183, after Gilpin fired an AR-15 rifle multiple times into the air, police said.

Before the shooting, Austin police had received numerous calls to respond to a Anderson Mill Pub at 10401 Anderson Mill Road; first on a report of a robbery, then on a report of two people fighting. They responded a third time after witnesses said a man involved in the fight returned to the bar armed with an AR-15 rifle, police said.

Police encountered Gilpin near the bar and Gilpin fired five or six times into the air. He then moved near Hope Presbyterian Church and fired into the air again. It was there that police were able to begin communicating with Gilpin, but he ignored orders to drop the rifle.

Lane shot Gilpin as he walked through a courtyard while still armed, police said. Gilpin died at the scene.

An online profile for Gilpin indicates that he worked for a consulting firm in Cedar Park, previously at NLand Surf Park in 2016, and as a longtime general manager at the Best Buy in the Mueller mixed-use project in Northeast Austin. Public records showed his home address is in Cedar Park.

It was at the Best Buy where Ali Casas said he got to know Gilpin. Casas said Gilpin was a laid-back guy who liked to refer to his coworkers as “cowboy.” He said Gilpin was an amiable boss who fostered camaraderie among the staff there.

“He was a kind-hearted person,” Casas said. “I definitely want people to know that he was much more than what happened that night.”