Jerry Comer plans to have his service station in Skyway open for business this morning, just as it has been for the past 40 years.

"It's not going to scare me out of business," Comer, 69, said as he stood in the office of his BP station at Renton Avenue South and South 116th Street, and talked about the armed robbery at his station yesterday that left one suspect dead - possibly shot by Comer himself.

Adam Boston, 17, of Seattle died in Harborview Medical Center in Seattle at 10:20 a.m., about four hours after the robbery.

Late yesterday, King County sheriff's detectives were still trying to determine who fired the fatal bullet during a struggle about six blocks from the gas station.

According to Gregg Walker, spokesman for the King County Sheriff's Office, Boston was not involved in the struggle with a sheriff's deputy. Boston and the second suspect had been detained by the deputy when the shooting took place.

Walker said a deputy's handgun and a weapon Comer armed himself with apparently were fired at least once each during the struggle. One of the robbers may have fired a handgun, too. But investigators had been unable to confirm that.

"We don't have any evidence right now to indicate that any other guns were fired," Walker said late yesterday. "If anything else was fired, that'll come out in the investigation."

Comer said he was in the back office at the station just after 6 a.m. yesterday when he heard shouting. He looked out and was confronted by a man with a handgun who ordered him to open the cash register.

He handed over some cash, but the gunman wasn't satisfied, telling Comer that he wanted $20 bills. "I told him we didn't have any. We just opened," Comer said.

The gunman and his accomplice started to leave, but then changed their minds and ordered both Comer and his employee into a back room. "That's when I kind of got worried," he said, fearing they both might be shot.

They were ordered not to move for 10 minutes, then the robbers left. Comer waited about 10 seconds, he recalled, and looked out to see the two men walking west along 118th Place South. He got in his truck and followed, calling 911 on his cell phone and keeping well back from the two men.

About six blocks from the station, at South 117th Place and 60th Avenue South, a female deputy intercepted the two men and had them both leaning over the hood of her patrol car when Comer pulled up.

The deputy was handcuffing one of the men when he lurched backward, knocking her to the ground, Comer said. The man was on top of the deputy, hitting her, and it appeared they were struggling over the deputy's gun, he said.

"When I saw her on the ground, I thought I should do something," Comer recalled.

He got his own handgun and fired once, possibly hitting Boston in the chest, Comer said. About the same time, the deputy's gun also fired.

It was unclear what Boston was doing when he was shot. But Walker said Boston wasn't handcuffed at the time of the shooting.

Other officers arrived and took control.

Comer was grazed in the chin by a bullet during the fracas, but he doesn't know which gun that bullet came from, either. "Bullets were flying," he said. "It happened so fast."

The second robbery suspect, about 18, was not injured and was taken into custody.

The 45-year-old deputy, a 14-year veteran with the Sheriff's Office, was uninjured. She has been placed on paid administrative leave pending a review of the shooting, Walker said.