Advertisement Salinas police fatally shoot boy: No wrongdoing found by DA Share Copy Link Copy

The Monterey County District Attorney's Office revealed results Friday of its investigation into two Salinas Police Department officers who used deadly force against a 16-year-old boy, Marlon Joel Rodas-Sanchez.Officers Manuel Lopez Jr. and Jared Dominici fatally shot the 100-pound boy inside a Terrace Street house on Jan. 18, 2017. District Attorney Dean Flippo announced his investigators found no criminal wrongdoing by the two police officers."Unquestionably, both Officer Lopez and Officer Dominici had a genuine belief in the imminent need to use deadly force in self-defense," the District Attorney's analysis stated.During Friday's news conference, Flippo played body camera video from Lopez, Dominici, and the two other police officers who entered the house where Rodas-Sanchez was hiding.SALINAS POLICE BODY CAMERAS: Watch the videos here (Warning -- graphic content)Officer Lopez was flat on his back and aiming an AR-15 rifle between his legs when he fired seven rounds at the teen. Lopez had just slipped on a wet tile kitchen floor, so he was on the ground, and very close to Rodas-Sanchez's knife.The floor was wet because the boy had been sprayed with a high-pressure fire hose outside the house as officers attempted to disarm him.COMPLETE NEWS CONFERENCE: District Attorney explains officer-involved shooting"Lopez lost his footing and fell flat on his back. Rodas stood up with the knife in his hand immediately next to Officer Lopez," DA investigators said.Rodas-Sanchez was knocked down by a Tazer for a moment, but the teen got back up on his feet, next to Officer Lopez.At that moment, Lopez opened fire because he feared the teen was about to stab him.Officer Lopez said, "I got scared thinking he's gonna stab me." Two other officers in the kitchen also believed the teen was about to stab Lopez.A fourth officer, Dominici, heard gunshots, entered the kitchen, and saw Lopez down on the ground. He did not know whether Lopez had been shot or stabbed. Dominici immediately began firing, and shot the boy twice with a handgun. READ: District Attorney's full analysisAll shots were fired in less than four seconds.After a second AR-15 round struck him, Marlon collapsed."This is a tragic event. A 16-year-old man's death. Such a young life is snuffed out," Flippo said. A total of fourteen officers were deployed for the Jan. 18 incident. It began when a resident who lived in the Terrace Street house with Rodas-Sanchez called 911 to say the boy was acting strangely, and was sharpening a knife.Flippo said Rodas-Sanchez had a potentially toxic level of methamphetamine in his system while the boy was refusing to talk to police, or follow police orders. He had been hallucinating earlier that night, telling his housemates that he was seeing flashing lights. Several people lived in the house with Rodas-Sanchez, but none of the residents were the teen's family members.His father had smuggled Rodas-Sanchez from their native country, El Salvador, into the U.S. in 2014. The boy had not seen his mother or father for more than a year before his death, and his parents did not know where their son lived. Rodas-Sanchez refused to live with his parents. Housemates said the 16-year-old boy did not go to school or have a job. Rodas-Sanchez posted Facebook photos of himself flashing MS-13 gang signs, and holding a large wad of cash. He liked to hang out at Caesar Chavez Park, where he used crystal meth, Flippo said. On Jan. 18, the first officer on scene said, "(I) can't tell exactly what he's doing. He's talking to himself in the backyard. He's scraping the knife on the cement." The boy refused to follow police commands to drop his knife as officers tried talking to him in Spanish and English. After police attempted to disarm the teen by spraying him with a fire hose and firing non-lethal rubber bullets, the teen ran inside the house, and closed the door.At that point, officers could have stayed outside the house for a standoff. But Dominici, Lopez, and two other officers followed the teen inside.Officers told DA investigators that they followed the teen inside because they feared other residents were still in the house, and could be harmed.Officers on a 911 tape can be heard asking if the house had been evacuated."Confirm this house is evacuated," one officer asks. "That house is evacuated," another officer responds.KSBW asked Flippo why the officers claimed they did not know that the house was empty, even though officers can be heard in a 911 tape, saying that it was evacuated.Flippo said some communications were not heard by all 14 officers at the scene.According to Flippo, the only words Rodas-Sanchez spoke to officers inside the house were, "You like it." Flippo said investigators will never know what the strange statement meant. READ MORE: Who was Marlon Rodas-Sanchez?Officer Lopez spotted the boy hiding in the kitchen behind a wall, still armed with his knife. The highly tense situation further escalated into chaos with Lopez slipped on the wet kitchen floor and fell to the ground.Dominici heard gunshots and saw Lopez flat on his back, firing between his legs, and Dominici also opened fire."Officers are forced to make split second decisions," assistant district attorney Berkely Brannon said. The boy was pronounced dead minutes later. No officers were injured. KSBW transcribed a 911 tape below:DISPATCHER "A suspicious person with a knife. 646 Terrace Street. RP (911 caller) said there is a 5150 (mentally unstable) male outside with a knife. Possibly on H and S. (Drugs)."DISPATCHER "Hispanic male wearing a red sweatshirt, black pants, and white shoes. And he's carrying a butcher's knife."OFFICER "Yeah he still has it in his hand right now. (I) can't tell exactly what he's doing. He's talking to himself in the backyard. He's scraping the knife on the cement."OFFICER "If anybody has a 40 (non-lethal sponge rounds) go ahead and grab it, he's not responding to us."OFFICER "If the RP (911 caller) is in that doorway, or anywhere by that window, have them back up and get away from that area."OFFICER "He keeps scraping the butcher knife on the ground sharpening it."DISPATCHER "The male lives at that residence, the male with the knife. Should be a name of Marlon Joel Rodas-Sanchez.""The RP (911 caller) lives there and is inside. Was advised to stay inside."OFFICER "We have been trying to talk to him in Spanish and English. He's not responding. He appears to be talking to himself."OFFICER "Would you contact the fire department and see if they will let us use their high pressure hose."OFFICER "646 Terrace is evacuated."DISPATCHER "10-4"OFFICER "We are being advised there is a couple that lives in the (shed in the) rear of the residence at 646 (Terrace)."OFFICER "We won't be able to access the back area to evacuate the other people (in the shed) without a shield. We will be in the line of fire."OFFICER "Fire (engine) just pulled up."OFFICER "He's still not complying. He still has the knife in his right hand, talking to himself and keeps sharpening."OFFICER "(No K-9 is available in Monterey County.)"OFFICER "I'm in place with a 40 (non-lethal sponge round)."OFFICER "We are letting him know that he is under arrest at this point and he needs to comply."OFFICER "All perimeter units standby. We will be deploying water here in a minute and we may need a 40 deployment also."--- Fire hose and non-lethal rounds deployed --OFFICER "He's walking back toward the house. He still has the knife and he's screaming."OFFICER "He's back in the house."OFFICER "Confirm this house is evacuated."OFFICER "That house is evacuated."OFFICERS INSIDE HOUSE "Police!"OFFICER "He's still in the kitchen area. Still holding the knife."OFFICER "Multiple Tazer deployments."MARLON JOEL RODAS-SANCHEZ "(Screaming)"OFFICER "(Tazer) ineffective."MARLON JOEL RODAS-SANCHEZ "(Screaming)"OFFICER "He's hiding behind a wall. He' still armed with the knife."OFFICER "We have a partial view of him. He's directly behind the front door. So just be aware."OFFICER "He's sharpening the knife and still not obeying commands."(GUNSHOTS) "(Gunshots from AR-15 rifle and handgun)OFFICER "Shots fired."OFFICER "Perimeter units are Code 4. The rounds came through the wall and struck the cars. But we're Code 4 (officers are uninjured and OK)."OFFICER "The scene is secured. Send in medical (paramedics)."OFFICER "Subject (Rodas-Sanchez) is down."