Dramatic police bodycam footage shows the moment a police officer in Kentucky fatally shot a suspect who was armed with a metal pole and a knife — a shooting “without any justification,” according to the man’s attorney.

Video obtained by WDRB shows the moment a Fulton police officer fired two shots into the body of 43-year-old Chris McClure, who police said had been swinging a metal pole with a knife attached to it while smashing windows of several parked cars in January 2017. McClure’s attorney, Larry Forman, said the father of three struggled with mental issues and was upset that he hadn’t been able to see his children at the time.

The video shows Officer James “Buck” Buckingham responding to the scene and opening fire on McClure almost instantly after getting out of his police cruiser. Buckingham then twice orders McClure to “get down” before the suspect appeared to sit up, prompting Buckingham to shoot him a second time.

McClure’s relatives are now suing the officer, the city of Fulton and the Kentucky State Police, which oversaw an investigation into the shooting.

“I think the brunt of the lawsuit really stems from the fact that after Chris is on the ground, ‘Buck’ comes up to him, and from point-blank range, without any justification, no reason whatsoever, fires an execution shot,” Forman told WDRB.

Forman characterized the footage as “appalling” and said Buckingham responded with unnecessary lethal force.

The Kentucky State Police and Fulton’s chief of police did not respond to requests for comment, according to WDRB.

Witnesses of the police-involved shooting told WPSD that they saw a man in downtown Fulton wildly swinging a pole along East State Line Street on Jan. 16, 2017.

“He was very menacing towards the cars,” witness Allie Craft said. “Very aggressive-looking, like he was finding one to go after. You could tell he wasn’t quite right.”

Kentucky State Police Lt. Kyle Nall told the station that McClure smashed the windows of five cars, including two police cruisers, before the deadly confrontation.

“He drew back with the pole,” another witness, Peter Toon, told the station. “I could hear the officer ask him to stop and as he came forward, he seemed to pull the trigger.”

An autopsy later found that McClure, who later passed away at a hospital, died from two gunshot wounds to the torso.