GARY — A Merrillville man has died, state police confirmed Thursday night, after an exchange of gunfire Wednesday with a Lake County sheriff’s officer in Gary following a traffic stop.

Marquis Thomas, 19*, was a passenger in a car stopped by the sheriff's officer about 3 p.m. Wednesday in the 700 block of East 42nd Avenue in Gary, police said. Police have not yet released the reason for the traffic stop.

Thomas was transferred from Methodist Hospitals Northlake Campus to Loyola University Medical Center, Indiana State Police said. He was pronounced dead at 5:14 p.m. Thursday, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Indiana State Police Sgt. Ann Wojas did not have any additional information about Thomas’ death Thursday night. The Cook County medical examiner’s office did not immediately have any information.

The exchange wounded the officer’s K-9, state police said. The K-9, Blade, was in stable condition Thursday, police said.

The sheriff's department was not releasing the identity of the officer, who was not injured, because the nature of his work and concerns for his privacy and safety, department spokesman Mark Back said. The officer and Blade work with the department's gang unit, he said.

Police say Thomas ran from the car, later identified as a 2007 Toyota Avalon, and the driver fled west on 42nd Avenue, police said. On Thursday, state police said the driver had been located, gave a statement and was not "considered a threat to this case."

The officer and his K-9 chased Thomas, who ran down an alley toward railroad tracks north of the traffic stop site, police said. At some point near the tracks, Thomas shot at the officer and the K-9 was wounded, police said.

The officer returned fire, striking Thomas one time, according to a state police news release.

Thomas was taken to a hospital, and the dog was taken by police car to the Purdue University Veterinary Hospital in West Lafayette.

Another county officer arrived and disarmed Thomas, police said.

The officer is currently with Blade, Back said. After that, he will not return to patrol for an undetermined amount of time per department policy, he said.

The gang unit has patrolled areas in Lake County where there is gang activity, including Gary's Glen Park section, in cooperation with local police for about five years, Back said.

"This case is complex and the investigation is continuing," state police said.

Times Staff Writer Lauren Cross contributed to this report.

*Editor's note: An earlier version of this story contained an inaccuracy due to incorrect information provided to The Times by Indiana State Police. Marquis Thomas is 19 years old.