VALLEJO — The Solano County District Attorney cleared the Vallejo officer who shot and killed 21-year-old Angel Ramos during a January 2017 family fight, according to documents released last week by the city.

Sharon S. Henry, chief deputy district attorney, outlined her findings in a six-page report, absolving Officer Zachary Jacobsen of any wrongdoing when he shot Ramos four times during the early morning hours of Jan. 23, 2017, in Vallejo.

“I have concluded that Officer Jacobsen acted lawfully as his actions were objectively reasonable and necessary to defend others from imminent death or great bodily injury,” Henry wrote in the February 2018 report.

The city of Vallejo released the report last week after the Bay Area News Group submitted a public records request seeking Vallejo Police Department records under the state’s new police transparency law, SB 1421. The city also released reports of another 2017 shooting involving Jacobsen, when he and four other officers shot a Benicia man who was armed with a machete 41 times.

The 93 pages of police and district attorney reports offer a detailed, blow-by-blow account of the shooting. It started when Jacobsen and another officer responding to 911 calls of a large fight near Sacramento and Buckles streets, initially found nothing. Aided by witnesses, the officers located the disturbance, which was inside a house in the 1700 block of Sacramento Street.

Jacobsen says he saw a fight on the home’s second-story balcony. Jacobsen and his partner, Matt Samida, ran to a fence, which surrounds the property, and yelled for the people to stop fighting but no one listened, the report says.

He reported that there was a person, Ramos, standing at the door to the balcony holding a large kitchen knife and “making like a stabbing motion” as he fought with someone, later identified as Deshon Wilson.

Samida deployed his taser, hitting Wilson and knocking him down to the deck floor. Jacobsen reported seeing Ramos hovering over Wilson and making several stabbing motions.

“I already had my firearm out because of the fact that we’re going to a large chaotic fight where a weapon was mentioned and nobody was listening to us, and we don’t know if anyone was going to pop out with guns or whatever the case may be, especially when I had seen the guy who had the knife inside the house,” Jacobsen reported. “I had my duty weapon out already. When the male with the knife came out of the house onto the deck and got on top and did those two stabbing motions, it was at that point that I thought the only thing I could do to save this guy’s life was to shoot the man who was trying to stab him.”

An autopsy revealed Ramos was shot at the base of his neck, and three times in the chest. At the time of his death, Ramos had a blood alcohol level of 0.26 — around three times the legal limit — the report states.

Attorney, Melissa Nold, of the John Burris law offices, representing Ramos’ family in a lawsuit against the city, called the report’s findings “disappointing.”

“But we were never surprised,” said Nold by phone on Thursday about the DA’s findings.

The family has filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the city and Jacobsen.

“Angel wasn’t armed with a knife when he was shot,” Nold said. “He was punching the guy on the ground.”

Nold noted that no knives were found near Ramos’ body after he was shot.

“It must have jumped up and ran away,” she said about the knife Ramos allegedly had.

Two knives were found in the home by police. One of the knives was located in the kitchen sink and the other on the kitchen floor, according to the district attorney’s report.

Witnesses in the house say they saw Ramos swinging a knife before the fight moved out to the balcony, the report says.

Nold further questioned how Jacobsen could see a knife, in the darkness, with trees surrounding the area, and a wooden railing blocking a good portion of Ramos’ body, all while looking up toward a second floor balcony.

“Tactically, you’re not going to see clearly,” she added.

Records released on August 2017 police shooting

The city also released reports on the August 2017 killing of 44-year-old Jeffrey Barboa, a Benicia resident who was shot 41 times by police, after he slowly approached officers while holding a machete on Interstate 80. Vallejo police had chased Barboa, a Benicia resident, from Vallejo through Contra Costa County and into Richmond, where he collided with officers on the freeway.

The coroner’s report says police fired approximately 50 times at Barboa, who was yelling “kill me” as he walked toward police with the machete. One witness, whose named was redacted, said he believed Barboa, “definitely would have killed someone.”

Police identified Jacobsen, as well as Officers Stephanie McDonough, Jake Estrada, David McLaughlin and Matt Komoda, as having fired at Barboa. Last month, McLaughlin was placed on leave in connection with two incidents — one where he tackled a resident who filmed a traffic stop from his porch, and another when he drew a firearm while off-duty, during an argument at a Contra Costa County shopping center.

In March 2018, the Contra Costa County coroner held an inquest hearing on Barboa’s death, where a jury ruled 8-4 that Barboa’s death was a suicide.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Video shows gunman threatening California neighborhood before deadly law enforcement shooting

Video shows gunman threatening California neighborhood before deadly law enforcement shooting Crime and Public Safety | Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California

Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California Crime and Public Safety | San Francisco police shoot, kill man who they say was approaching officers with apparent firearm

San Francisco police shoot, kill man who they say was approaching officers with apparent firearm Crime and Public Safety | Alameda DA to charge Bay Area prosecutor, her biggest political critic, with interfering in fatal police shooting case

Alameda DA to charge Bay Area prosecutor, her biggest political critic, with interfering in fatal police shooting case Crime and Public Safety | Bodycam footage of Vallejo Police Department shooting released The documents list more than a dozen contacts with police in the five months before Barboa was killed. It started in March, when a 12-year-old Benicia girl called 911 to report Barboa was getting violent. The report describes him as a recovering meth addict who had potentially relapsed.

After that, Barboa allegedly committed several robbers, including a bank heist in Benicia.

The city released four sets of records under SB 1421 last week, on the Barboa and Ramos shootings, as well as a 2017 shooting where a police officer fired at a carjacking suspect during a foot chase. Records were also released on a Vallejo officer who was fired for having sex while on duty.

On Thursday, the city denied a request by the Vallejo Times-Herald for officer body camera footage on the fatal shooting of 20-year-old Willie McCoy, who was shot by six officers in a Taco Bell drive-through last month.