OAKVILLE • A man described by police as violent and combative died in the custody of St. Louis County officers Monday night after they used a Taser on him in the basement of his home.

Tereance Klein, 57, died after being arrested at his home in the 2900 block of Gladwood Drive in the Oakville area. The home is near Milburn and Yaeger roads.

His death is being investigated by the department and the St. Louis County medical examiner’s office.

Klein lived at the home with his brother and mother, police said. Police were called there at 10:35 p.m. by a relative who said Klein, a felon who served prison time for attempted rape, was acting violently.

The caller said Klein was hurting himself, destroying the home and possibly high on drugs, police said.

Police did not identify the relative, and no relatives of Klein could be reached by the Post-Dispatch for comment.

The relative who called police barricaded Klein in the basement when Klein began hitting himself in the head with a frying pan, authorities said.

Police say the first officer to arrive was told by the relative to wait for a backup. “He believed the officer would be hurt,” department spokesman Officer Benjamin Granda said in a news release.

After a second officer arrived, the two officers went inside and confronted Klein in the basement. They tried to handcuff him but he “immediately began to display combative behavior toward them,” Granda’s release said.

An officer used his Taser on Klein, then handcuffed him. That’s when police officers and paramedics saw that Klein wasn’t breathing.

They tried performing CPR but couldn’t revive Klein, and he was pronounced dead at the scene.

Sgt. Shawn McGuire, another spokesman for the department, said both officers were men, one with three years on the force and one with two years. He did not identify the officers.

McGuire said police had been called to the home for various reasons 31 times since 2009.

Klein served prison time for attempted forcible rape in St. Louis County. He got a 22-year sentence and served about 14 years behind bars. He was paroled in 2000.

He also had drug convictions in St. Louis in 2009 and 2010, and a conviction for resisting arrest from 2010. He was in and out of prison, then finally paroled in 2015.

Klein was the second man in St. Louis County to die after a confrontation with police in a little more than four days. On Thursday, Florissant police fatally shot a man who they say lunged at them with a knife. Police shot Elijah Smith, 25, in the basement of a home in the 1400 block of Bay Meadows Drive.