jose rodriguez.jpg

Jose Efrain Rodriguez

(Facebook)

Lancaster County District Attorney Craig Stedman on Friday voiced only one criticism of the Lancaster City Police officers who were involved in a fatal shooting of 18-year-old Jose Efrain Rodriguez on Jan. 24.



They put themselves in too much "unnecessary" peril by not resorting to deadly force more quickly, the DA said during a detailed 90-minute press conference that ended with him declaring that the shooting was justified.



His office's investigation showed the officers only fired after Rodriguez, a recent New York City transplant with a juvenile criminal record, fired at them.







Lancaster County DA Craig Stedman speaks during a press conference on a fatal police-involved shooting.



They even took the risk of trying, unsuccessfully, to bring him down with Tasers before resorting to gunfire, Stedman said.



"There is no question that it's justified," he said. "And (the investigation) is absolutely closed."



He insisted that Rodriguez caused his own death through a 4-minute-long series of terrible decisions that began when he fled after approaching two cops who were in a cruiser, and then fired at the officers when they pursued him.



"The blame for this is entirely on the shoulders of Mr. Rodriguez," Stedman said. "He had complete control over his own destiny" and could have survived merely by deciding to surrender rather than deliberately engaging in "combat" with the police.





The DA said his investigation showed that Rodriguez fired a single shot at the officers he first encountered around 12:30 a.m. One of the officers fired back seven times, and although security camera footage shows Rodriguez falling, it is not believed that he was struck by gunfire at that time, Stedman said.



Instead, Stedman showed video of Rodriguez hiding in the Hillrise apartment complex while police surrounded the area. Once, Rodriguez hit the ground when a police cruiser drove by.



When Rodriguez made a dash out of Hillside toward Howard Avenue, two officers spotted him and pursued. They yelled at him to stop before firing their Tasers, to no effect, Stedman said. He said Rodriguez then turned and fired a shot toward the cops, causing one of the officers to jump aside.



The other officer then fired four times, fatally wounding Rodriguez, the DA said. He said that despite his wounds, Rodriguez kept struggling with the officers. Rodriguez's pistol, which turned out to be stolen, and a pocket knife that apparently fell from his pocket, were recovered from the shooting scene, Stedman said.





None of the videos showed Rodriguez being shot. Stedman said a security camera filmed the officers using their Tasers, but panned away on its normal sweep just before the officer opened fire.



"The police exhibited extraordinary restraint at the point of risking their lives and we are extremely fortunate that we did not lose one or more officers," Stedman said, mixing praise and criticism. "You're going to lose as a police officer if you bring non-deadly force to a deadly situation."



"The officers who used deadly force in this instance did so to protect themselves, their fellow officers and residents of Lancaster City who also faced potential danger," he added.



Citing concerns for their safety, Stedman didn't name the officers involved. He said he likewise would withhold the name of any civilian who justifiably uses deadly force to protect himself.



The DA said all four officers who had direct contact with Rodgriguez are male and white and have been on the city force for less than five years. None have any record of discipline for use of force, he said.



Stedman said he spent 2 1/2 hours before the press conference outlining the findings of his investigation for Rodriguez's family, for whom he expresses sympathy and appreciation for their forbearance.



"There are no winners in this incident," he said. "A young man is dead. His family is grieving."