Hayes Hickman

USA TODAY NETWORK – Tennessee

A Knoxville man who fled the state after an alleged assault on a Knox County sheriff's deputy was fatally shot by police in Alabama following a pursuit Wednesday, authorities said.

Micah R. Lambert, 37, was killed when he attempted to charge officers with his SUV, according to Oxford, Ala. Police Chief Bill Partridge.

The chief said Lambert was wanted on a charge of aggravated assault on police officers in connection with an incident earlier this week in Knox County.

Partridge said Oxford police were notified by authorities in neighboring Cleburne County, Ala., about 12:30 p.m. Wednesday of a pursuit of a man wanted out of Knox County.

Oxford officers joined the pursuit, which ended in a parking lot at a Starbucks Coffee shop.

"As he came around the back of the parking lot he came to a stop," Partridge said during a Wednesday afternoon news conference at the scene of the shooting. "Officers were approaching his vehicle, where witnesses say he gunned the vehicle and tried to run over the officers.

"They opened fire on the suspect inside the vehicle. He is deceased."

The chief said a semi-automatic 9 mm handgun loaded with "law enforcement type ammo" was found inside Lambert's Ford Explorer after the shooting.

"All of our officers are OK," Partridge said. "Now they have to live with this for the rest of their lives."

Partridge added that Oxford police were notified by the Heflin, Ala., Police Department, which initiated the pursuit, that the suspect was armed, suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder and had made suicidal threats in the past. He could not confirm whether Lambert was a military veteran.

It was not immediately clear how the police pursuit began.

According to a Knox County Sheriff's Office incident report, Lambert had fled from a confrontation with KCSO detectives Monday afternoon at a Pilot on N. Northshore Drive. Lambert had been reported missing and had left a friend's house with a loaded handgun after making threats to harm himself, according to the report.

"Mr. Lambert had left his dog with his friend and signed over the title to his vehicle before leaving," the report states.

Lambert became upset and began yelling when the detectives made contact with him, then refused their' commands to stop as he entered his vehicle.Lambert shoved one of the KCSO detectives, who deployed a stun gun, although it had no effect, the report reads. Lambert fled in his vehicle.

Charges also were pending against Lambert in connection with a pursuit by Knoxville Police Department officers in February 2016. Lambert fled from a DUI stop and led authorities on a pursuit in East Knoxville at speeds exceeding 100 mph, according to arrest warrants.

Lambert crashed his Jeep Cherokee and punched a KPD officer in the face before several officers took him into custody, the warrants state.

More details as they develop online and in Friday's News Sentinel.