Cherokee shooting.PNG

Investigators confer at the scene of an apparent self-inflicted shooting following a pursuit Wednesday, Jan. 25, 2017.

(Cherokee County Sheriff)

Cherokee County authorities have released more information about an incident which led to a fugitive dying of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound during a pursuit Wednesday.

Ricky Thomison

Cherokee County Sheriff Jeff Shaver said deputies yesterday were looking for two fugitives wanted in Coffee County, Tenn., who were thought to be in the area. The two were wanted in connection with burglaries and thefts that occurred in Coffee County.

On Wednesday investigators located and arrested one of the fugitives, Ricky C. Thomison, 33, of Manchester, Tenn., without incident in the Bay Springs community.

Hours later deputies and investigators spotted the second fugitive, Jeremiah Vandagriff, 33, also of Manchester, Tenn., driving on Alabama 68 in Leesburg.

Deputies performed a vehicle stop on U.S. 411 at J.T. Mackey Drive, and a passenger, Craig New, 47, of Rainbow City, exited the vehicle and was taken into custody. However, Vandagriff attempted to flee, before coming to a stop, Shaver said.

Craig New

Knowing the suspect was armed and had made threats toward law enforcement, authorities surrounded the vehicle, Shaver said. When the Vandagriff did not respond to verbal commands, deputies introduced tear gas into the vehicle. When investigators approached the vehicle, they found Vandagriff was dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The State Bureau of Investigation is investigating with the assistance of the Cherokee County Major Crimes Unit, Sheriff's Office and Cherokee County Coroner's Office. Any evidence will be presented to the District Attorney's office.

Jeremiah Vandagriff

Shaver said investigators were able to recover a large amount of stolen property from Vandagriff's vehicle, including multiple firearms and jewelry.

Shaver called the incident "a tragedy for the Vandagriff family" but said, "I am very thankful that no law enforcement officer or bystanders were injured today, and I attribute that to the professionalism shown by the deputies and investigators during today's incident."

Thomison was transported to the Cherokee County Detention Center and extradited to Tennessee by Coffee County deputies.

New remains in the Cherokee County Detention Center and is charged with drug possession and possession of drug paraphernalia.