Carlos Andres López

Las Cruces Sun-News

LAS CRUCES — One of New Mexico’s most wanted fugitives was shot and killed Tuesday by a Las Cruces police officer after he attempted to evade capture at a busy shopping center at the corner of Missouri Avenue and Solano Drive .

In the moments leading up to the fatal shooting, police said the fugitive, 29-year-old Jeremy Lopez-Robledo of Las Cruces, led a team of authorities on a foot chase in the parking lot of the Solano Square shopping center and attacked officers with a knife.

The attack prompted one police officer, who had been “slashed” with the knife during the mid-morning encounter, to fire his gun at Lopez-Robledo, striking him at least once, according to the Las Cruces Police Department.

Lopez-Robledo, who had been wanted by federal authorities on a probation violation, was pronounced dead shortly after arriving at a Las Cruces hospital, police said.

Yvette Soto, a deputy marshal for the U.S. Marshals Service in Las Cruces, said Lopez-Robledo had been on the run from authorities for more than a month and was added to the list of the state’s most wanted fugitives on Monday.

The U.S. Marshals Service issued a plea Monday afternoon, urging the public to be on alert for Lopez-Robledo, who was believed to be in the Las Cruces area. He was described as having a “violent history” that included previous assaults on police officers, among other crimes.

Shortly before 11 a.m. Tuesday, Lopez-Robledo was located at the Solano Square shopping center, police said. Officers and deputy U.S. marshals, working as part of the Southwest Investigative Fugitive Taskforce, attempted to apprehend Lopez-Robledo, but he led members of the task force on a brief foot chase toward the Lowe’s grocery store, 1410 Missouri Ave.

Police said a “struggle” ensued between the task force members and Lopez-Robledo, who was armed with a knife. An LCPD officer shot Lopez-Robledo after the officer received a laceration to his right hand. Police described the officer’s injury as non-life-threatening.

Police have not said how many shots the officer fired at Lopez-Robledo. A woman who witnessed the incident told the Sun-News that she heard at least three gunshots. The woman, who did not want her name published, said she heard yelling while she was helping her grandmother into her vehicle.

“I turned and looked and saw the police chase the man,” the woman said. “They had the suspect on the floor, I saw a lot of movement, like he was resisting arrest. Then, next thing you know, we heard multiple shots.”

The witness said Lopez-Robledo was near the store’s ice machine when he was shot.

An employee at the nearby Baskin-Robbins told the Sun-News that she heard multiple gunshots shortly after opening the store at 11 a.m.

“We heard pops that didn’t sounds like fireworks and, literally minutes later, we heard sirens in the parking lot, and all entrances to the Solano Square were blocked off,” the Baskin-Robbins employee, Michaela Kelley, said before adding, “I heard two very loud pops, one right after the other, which sounded suspicious.”

LCPD has placed the officer who fired at Lopez-Robledo on administrative leave, a standard procedure for officers involved in shootings. The officer's name has not been released.

The shooting is being investigated by LCPD and the Officer-Involved Incident Task Force, which includes detectives from LCPD, New Mexico State Police, Doña Ana County Sheriff’s Office and New Mexico State University Police.

Carlos Andres López can be reached 575-541-5453, carlopez@lcsun-news.com or @carlopez_los on Twitter.