Standoff With Double Homicide Suspect Concludes In Pendleton - Umatilla County

- 01/25/17

The following is on behalf of Chief Stuart Roberts, Pendleton Police Department:



12:09 p.m., January 25, 2017, the Umatilla County Dispatch Center located in Pendleton, Oregon disseminated an attempt to locate for thirty-three year old Western Washington resident Jared Abernathy at the request of the US Marshals and Mason County Sheriff's Office located in Shelton, Washington. The information received by Umatilla County law enforcement was that Abernathy was suspected of committing a double homicide in Mason County on January 24, 2017, and was believed to be armed.



Just before 1:00 p.m., a Pendleton Police Officer located a 2006 Chevrolet Equinox associated with Abernathy parked behind the Motel 6 in Pendleton just off Interstate 84. Shortly thereafter, US Marshals arrived in Pendleton to provide investigative/apprehension assistance to the Pendleton Police Department. A perimeter was quickly established as additional resources were requested from the Umatilla County Sheriff's Office, Oregon State Police and Hermiston Police Department.



Trained negotiators were able to establish communication with Abernathy at 3:14 p.m. after several failed attempts. Communications were maintained for almost five hours as Abernathy spoke to family, friends and negotiator(s). The ultimate goal of having Abernathy come out of his motel room peacefully ended at 8:06 p.m. when negotiators heard what sounded like a muffled report from a firearm. Several attempts to re-establish communication with Abernathy went unanswered before Oregon State Police SWAT breached the door to Abernathy's motel room in an attempt to render aid and/or take Abernathy into custody; however, Abernathy was found to be unresponsive.



Detectives from the Pendleton Police Department and Oregon State Police in cooperation with the Oregon Medical Examiner's Office and Mason County Sheriff's Office processed the motel room.



Interstate 84 between Exits 209 and 213 were shut down for a period as a safety precaution. Movement of patrons in surrounding businesses and vehicular traffic on adjacent roadway(s) were also restricted.



Questions specific to the Mason County criminal investigation should be referred to the Mason County Sheriff's Office.