Police: Overlea Man Shot, Killed By Police After Threatening Officer With Rifle

A man was shot and killed by Baltimore County Police in Overlea Thursday night.

Baltimore County Police spokeswoman Elise Armacost said patrol officers responded at 10:43 p.m. to the unit block of Greenwood Avenue for a report of a suicidal suspect. There, officers encountered a man with a long gun. He was later identified as Kerry Lee Coomer, 59, of the same address.

Police say Coomer's estranged wife, who lives nearby, told police he had been arguing with her throughout the day and said he wanted to die. She said he pointed the scoped rifle at himself. He threatened her and another family member, pointing the rifle at one of them, and that's what prompted her to call police.

When police arrived, Coomer came onto the porch, and one officer began to talk to him in an attempt to calm him down. A second officer provided cover as the first officer clearly commanded Coomer to put up his hands and come off the porch. Coomer refused, and as the first officer continued to give orders, Coomer suddenly reached for his rifle. The officer turned and ran as the cover officer fired two shots. Both struck Coomer in the upper body. Coomer was pronounced dead at the scene.

The officer who attempted to talk with Coomer was outfitted with a body camera, and police said that video will be part of the police investigation. Homicide detectives are investigating the shooting, as is routine in such cases, and the officer who fired will remain on administrative duty.

This is where Baltimore County police say they came across a man w/ a long gun. He was shot and killed. Unclear what led to shooting. #WBAL pic.twitter.com/JI4wzdqBry — Omar Jimenez (@OmarJimenezWBAL) January 27, 2017

Officers were on the porch taking pics. The shooting happened last night around 10:45. Should hear more from @BACOPoliceFire later. #WBAL pic.twitter.com/kf6oDonsHV — Omar Jimenez (@OmarJimenezWBAL) January 27, 2017

Anne Kramer contributed to this report.