SANTA ANA – The Orange County District Attorney’s Office has cleared an officer who shot and killed an unarmed 18-year-old who was running from members of the Santa Ana Police Department’s Gang Suppression Unit.

DA investigators concluded that there is insufficient evidence that Det. David Prewett is criminally culpable for shooting Steve Salgado during a Jan. 29 foot chase in the 400 block of South Birch St., according to a letter released this week outlining the investigation’s results.

According to the DA’s report, Prewett and five other officers at around 4:40 p.m. were patrolling the neighborhood when they spotted an occupied vehicle parked in the middle of an alleyway, blocking traffic.

Salgado got out of the front passenger seat and ran, according to the DA report. Prewett chased after him on foot, the report says, while several other officers drove after Salgado.

One of the officers told DA investigators that during the chase Salgado “maintained a firm grip on an item inside the right front pocket of his shorts.” That officer, Det. Tyler Salo, radioed his fellow officers in the midst of the pursuit to tell them that he believed Salgado may be armed.

According to the DA report, Salo yelled at Salgado: “Stop. Police.”

Then Prewett is quoted as ordering him to “Drop the gun.”

As he kept running, Salgado looked back toward the officers, who had their guns drawn, at which point Prewett shot him three times, the DA investigators wrote.

Part of the chase was captured on a security camera at a nearby home. According to the DA report, the footage was poor quality but appeared to show Salgado holding something in his pocket as he ran, looking behind him and possibly pulling something out of a pocket and throwing the object.

No weapon was found.

In Salgado’s immediate vicinity, though, police did find two cell phones, a bindle with “white crystalline powder” and a glass pipe. The report doesn’t spell out if the substance was tested or determined to be Salgado’s, but it says a blood test found methamphetamine in his system. It also was unclear if the phones had been on him.

Prewett declined to give a statement to the DA investigators after the shooting. As a result, the investigators wrote in their report, his state of mind at the time of the shooting is unclear.

“However, two officers who did give statements both drew their weapons and were prepared to use deadly force against Salgado,” the DA investigators wrote. “The shooting occurred near an apartment complex where families and children were present. Additionally, Salgado appeared to officers to be a gang member and was found fleeing from officers in the territory of one of the most active gangs in Santa Ana.”

The report says he was, in fact, a documented gang member.

Salgado’s death prompted 30 protesters to march from Birch Street to the Santa Ana Police Department several days after the shooting.

The incident involving Salgado wasn’t the first time that Prewett has been cleared by DA investigators for his role in a fatal shooting.

In 2010, Prewett was one of several officers who shot Elmer Perez while the 27-year-old was holding a replica handgun. Family members at the time criticized police for shooting Perez in front of his girlfriend and 2-year-old son, claiming that he didn’t pose a danger to them and that they had called authorities to help Perez.

He had been acting strangely, and agitated toward the pregnant girlfriend, and was on drugs and had a replica gun, the report says, although a family member told police it was unclear if the gun was real or fake.

DA investigators who looked into the Perez shooting determined that there was “insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that any Santa Ana police officer committed a crime.”

Neither Prewett nor the other officers who shot Perez provided statements to DA investigators.