Alamedan forced to defend bedroom

An Alameda resident fatally shot a teenager after the teen broke into his home last Wednesday, Feb. 1.

The incident occurred at 10:45 a.m. on Buena Vista Avenue. Authorities identified the deceased as 19-year-old Marquez Warren of Vallejo. Alameda Police Department (APD) Lt. Hoshmand Durani said Warren broke a rear glass door to enter the home. He then forced his way into one of the bedrooms. There he was confronted by the owner of the residence, Vedder Li, an off-duty Contra Costa County sheriff’s deputy.

Li opened fire and shot Warren several times, according to reports. Warren ran outside the residence where he later collapsed, according to Durani. Li called 911 and remained at the scene while authorities were en route.

The first responders at the scene performed CPR on Warren then transported him to Highland Hospital. He was pronounced dead later on that day.

APD is describing the incident as an officer-involved shooting and not a murder, however, Durani said their investigation is still pending. APD confiscated Li’s firearm, which was a personal firearm, for investigative purposes. Durani said APD has done several interviews with Li since the incident.

APD did not discover a firearm in Warren’s possession. Durani is unsure if there was a struggle between the two men before shots were fired.

Li did not request medical assistance after the incident, according to reports. There was no other damage to the property. No one else was in the house during the shooting.

Durani said Warren had no prior relationship with Li and had no known connection to Alameda. Li has been with the Contra Costa County sheriff’s office since July 2016.

Police ordered residents to shelter-in-place following the shooting as they searched for additional suspects. There were reports that Warren might have had one or more accomplices, but Durani could not confirm those reports. Police used official yellow tape to barricade traffic from the crime scene. The order was lifted about 12:45 p.m. that day.

The Alameda County Sheriff’s Office and the San Leandro Police Department sent officers to assist in the incident, according to reports.

Carla Roberts, a relative of Warren, set up a Gofundme page for the deceased’s funeral costs. The page has received $7,495 in donations with a targeted goal of $20,000 as of Tuesday, Feb. 7.

“He was a great son, a funny big brother who always picked at his sister, and he loved both of his brothers very much, he looked up to them,” the page says. “He was a great person, and a loving son who was trying to find his way!”

This is the first homicide in Alameda in 2017. There was just one homicide in Alameda in all of 2016. Oakland High senior Antwaun Williams, 19, was murdered outside AMF Southshore Lanes at 300 Park St. on Nov. 19, 2016.

The shooting occurred after the victim got into an argument with the suspect outside the business around 11:10 p.m.

The two exchanged words and the suspect pulled out a handgun and opened fire.