Wichita Falls Police have released the name of the teenager killed by a swat officer late last night in a standoff at Garrison’s food mart at Kemp and Kell after two hostages were taken. Both those women are safe and unharmed.

The man who was shot and killed by the swat officer is 18-year-old Miguel Angel Silva.



His driver’s license record shows a Wichita Falls address and the store has now reopened and police removed the tape and left the scene sometime after 11 a.m..

The call came in just after 10 p.m. when a caller told dispatchers there was a man with a rifle and they had heard three or four shots fired.

Police today could not confirm if it was a rifle or shotgun, only that he had a long gun.

Wichita Falls Police Sergeant Harold McClure says patrol officers and swat team members arrived on scene, where an 18-year-old had taken two women hostage.

We also learned this morning, that one hostage was an employee and the other one was not.

At around 10:45 p.m., one hostage was released and came out of the store. She is believed to be the non-employee and the suspect continued to communicate with officers while the other woman was still inside.

Then following one loud bang, the WFPD swat team rushed toward the convenience store.

And Chief Borrego says a swat officer shot and killed the suspect outside the store when he came out with the second hostage.

That officer is on mandatory 3-day administrative leave and will receive mandatory counseling.

“Anytime there’s a loss of life it’s tragic,” Borrego said. “Certainly, when one of our officers is involved it’s difficult for them also, but we have a job to do and we have our citizens we have to protect.”

Shortly before 11 p.m., officers brought the second female hostage, believed to be the employee away from the store.

Chief Borrego said she was not injured and no officers were injured either. The scene that was blocked off was from Kell to the other side of Taco Bell and from Kemp to the Fillmore area, only a few home owners were told to stay in place.

Shortly after 11 p.m., businesses in that area were given the all clear to reopen.

At this time we know little about the 18 year old, other than a WFISD spokesperson said Miguel Silva last attended Wichita Falls High School in 2015.



We also have unconfirmed information from an employee about the possible motive, but it has not been verified or confirmed through official sources.