WHSV has new details on the officer-involved shooting of a Rockingham County man in West Virginia on Tuesday afternoon.

Deputies in Rockingham County tried to stop Casey Desper, of McGaheysville, around 1 p.m. Tuesday afternoon for a probation violation, but the Rockingham County Sheriff's Office says Desper fled, leading to chase that reached speeds of up to 100 mph.

The chase continued along Route 33 West into West Virginia, at which point Rockingham County deputies ended their pursuit and officers with West Virginia State Police, the Pendleton County Sheriff's Office, Hardy County Sheriff's Office, and the West Virginia Division of Natural Resources took over the pursuit.

According to the Hardy County Sheriff's Office, their deputies were called to be on the lookout for a "convicted felon in a vehicle traveling at over 100mph, known to be armed and 'threatening to go out with a fight.'"

They report that Desper was found on private property near Brandywine, and, when officers approached, he attempted to run them over, reportedly driving through a building, threatening to harm others, and ramming multiple police vehicles, until he was stopped by an officer on Reddish Knob Road.

Details still remain murky as to what happened immediately following that stop on Reddish Knob Road, but an officer shot and killed Desper at that point.

The Hardy County Sheriff's Office reiterates that "the individual attempted to strike the law enforcement officers on the scene by repeatedly reversing his vehicle."

Investigation of the officer-involved shooting is being handled by the Pendleton County Sheriff's Office. The officer who shot Desper remains unidentified.

The Pendleton County Sheriff's Office has not returned multiple calls from WHSV seeking information on the investigation.

______

UPDATE (Apr. 19):

The person fatally shot by police in Pendleton County after a chase on Tuesday has been identified as Casey Desper, a McGaheysville man with a prior history with the Rockingham County Sheriff's Office. Sheriff Bryan Hutcheson has provided a prior mugshot of Desper, which can be seen at the bottom of this article.

Hutcheson said deputies in Harrisonburg tried to stop Desper, who was wanted on a probation violation, but wound up chasing him at speeds of up to 100 mph.

Desper was shot and killed by police on Tuesday afternoon a pursuit which began in Rockingham County ended across the state line in West Virginia's Pendleton County, on Reddish Knob Road.

The circumstances leading to the shooting are unclear at this time and the officer who killed Desper has not been identified.

The Pendleton County Sheriff's Office is investigating the incident. WHSV has contacted the Sheriff's Office, as well as West Virginia State Police, to learn further details about what led up to the officer-involved shooting.

_____

5:40 p.m. Apr. 18:

A person was shot and killed by police in West Virginia on Tuesday afternoon at the conclusion of a chase that began in Rockingham County.

According to Corporal J.M. Ware with West Virginia State Police, the chase began around 1 p.m. in Rockingham County, Virginia, crossed the state line and ended on Reddish Knob Road in West Virginia's Pendleton County.

When the suspect vehicle crossed the state line, West Virginia State Police, the Pendleton County Sheriff's Office, and the Hardy County Sheriff's Office, in addition to the state Division of Natural Resources, took over the pursuit from Rockingham County deputies.

It came to an end near Reddish Knob, southeast of Franklin, where the driver was shot to death by an officer on Reddish Knob Road.

Neither the officer nor the victim has been identified at this point. The Pendleton County Sheriff's Office has taken lead investigating the incident.

This is a developing story. WHSV's Janson Silvers was on scene and provided the video above, and we continue to track the latest.

Stay with WHSV for updates.