Nancy McCleary, Staff writer

An autopsy report says a man shot by a Cumberland County sheriff's deputy during a standoff in February died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The report confirms what Sheriff Ennis Wright said after Van Williams, 52, was found dead in his home at 5638 Summerwind Drive, a mobile home park off Shaw Road.

The autopsy also confirms the inaccuracy of the death certificate issued two weeks after the Feb. 1 shooting. The document, prepared by a Cumberland County medical examiner, said Williams was “shot by police” and labeled the death a “homicide.”

According to initial reports, Williams was standing outside when deputies arrived. He fired a shot at them, and a deputy fired a shot in response. Williams went back in the residence and refused to come out.

Wright said a single gunshot was heard about 30 minutes later. A camera-equipped robot sent inside the mobile home found Williams’ body on the floor.

The autopsy report, issued by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in Raleigh, says the exchange of gunfire happened when deputies entered the home.

“As the officers entered the house, the decedent (Williams), who apparently had a .22-caliber revolver, fired a shot. A retreating officer returned fire with a .45-caliber handgun,” the report says.

Williams had two gunshot wounds — one to the chest and one to the head.

“While the gunshot wound of the chest was potentially survivable,” the report says, “the gunshot wound of the head, which appeared to be self-inflicted, was immediately fatal."

The death was classified as suicide. The report was signed by Craig Nelson, a pathologist and associate chief medical examiner.

The findings showed that Williams’ blood-alcohol level was 0.21 percent. Under state law, a person with a blood-alcohol level of 0.08 percent is considered legally impaired.

“The sheriff gave a clear, concise statement of the facts at the scene the day of the incident,” Sgt. Sean Swain, a Sheriff's Office spokesman, said Thursday. “The media, once again rather than reporting just the facts, would rather get involved in a political propaganda and report half-truths."

The Fayetteville Observer first reported March 7 that the death certificate apparently contradicted initial reports about what happened. The Sheriff's Office's lawyer said in an email for that story that the death certificate was issued before the local medical examiner had all the facts from an autopsy.

The issue had been raised publicly by Carlton Sallie, who is running for sheriff in 2018. In a post on Facebook, Sallie questioned the sheriff's initial statement about how Williams died.

“You were told what happened and how to get the true facts as they are," Swain told a reporter in a text message, "but you have chosen not to do your job as a journalist and get all of the facts from the correct source. Which, in turn, questions the integrity of the sheriff and his office, putting a target on law enforcement once again.”

The Sheriff’s Office has not released the identity of the deputy who fired the shot. One reason cited is that it's under investigation by the State Bureau of Investigation, which examines all officer-involved shootings.

Ronnie Mitchell, the Sheriff’s Office lawyer, also cited ambiguities in the state’s Public Records Law, saying deputies are not county employees but work for the sheriff. That was the ruling of a case heard by the state Court of Appeals in 2016 regarding the Buncombe County’s Sheriff’s Office.

Mitchell contends the court’s ruling, as written, leaves doubt as to whether deputies can therefore be identified since they are not considered county employees.

The SBI findings, when complete, will be given to District Attorney Billy West, who will determine whether any charges are warranted.

Staff writer Nancy McCleary can be reached at mcclearyn@fayobserver.com or 486-3568.