A Fremont police officer acted reasonably when he fatally shot a man who repeatedly punched him, according to an Alameda County District Attorney’s Office report.

Officer James Taylor’s decision to shoot Nana Adomako three times at close range on Feb. 5, 2017 appeared “reasonable under the circumstances” because he believed Adomako would kill him or knock him unconscious if he continued to punch him, according to the report.

Deputy District Attorney Timothy Wagstaffe issued the report on Dec. 6, 2017 to Fremont Chief of Police Richard Lucero, and this news organization recently obtained a copy from the District Attorney’s Office.

The altercation began shortly after police dispatch reported at 4:02 p.m. that a homeless man in his 40s had committed a battery inside a Verizon Wireless store in the Fremont Hub shopping center.

Adomako reportedly acted rudely toward customers and employees, cursed at them and threatened to “beat” them. He also allegedly snatched a phone out of the hand of an employee who was trying to call police.

The report says Taylor saw Adomako along the frontage road of Mowry Avenue, just east of its intersection with Sutter Drive.

Taylor told investigators that when he spotted Adomako, he thought to himself “it’s just him,” because in multiple past contacts Adomako seemed calm and compliant.

But Adomako had shown some signs of mental illness such as mumbling and talking to himself, Taylor told investigators.

When Taylor pulled up with his police car lights on, Adomako walked up to the officer getting out of the vehicle and asked why he was being stopped, according to police. He also said, “I am the king of Fremont, and I am the chief of Fremont police. Why are you stopping me?”

Taylor said he calmly asked Adomako numerous times to sit on the curb but Adomako refused and appeared to get more tense and angry. Taylor grabbed Adomako, pressed him against the front of the police car and tried to grab his hand to put him in a “twist lock,” but he pulled away.

A struggle ensued and Adomako repeatedly struck Taylor, first with an open hand and then with a closed fist, delivering “violent” and “forceful” punches to the officer’s head and shoulder area, according to the report. The officer tried to punch back but missed.

Because Adomako wore thick clothing, Taylor thought his Taser would be ineffective so he instead pressed a button to release his police dog Cairo, who was in the backseat of the patrol car. But the dog instead jumped up and began biting Taylor, not Adomako, according to the report.

As Taylor was distracted by the dog, he was punched again by Adomako. Taylor’s head was jerked to the right by the blow and he “bent forward as if his body was buckling from the punch” while he was still being attacked by his own police dog, according to the report.

“At that moment, the…dog is, I don’t know, but he is not helping me any and I’m thinking if he…lands one right here I’m not going home to see my kids,” Taylor told investigators about his thoughts during the fight. He believed if he was knocked unconscious, Adomako might take his gun and use it to kill him or other officers.

Just as Adomako was attempting a seventh swing at Taylor, the officer drew his gun from his right side and fired three shots into Adomako’s body, knocking him to the ground. The police dog then began biting Adomako’s lower leg.

The entire encounter, from the time Taylor arrived and began talking with Adomako, appears to have lasted just over a minute and the altercation itself about 15 seconds, the report says.

Another Fremont officer, Grant Goepp, arrived at the scene in his patrol car seconds before Taylor fired his gun. Goepp described Taylor as “woozy.”

After Taylor and Goepp rolled Adomako over to place handcuffs on him, Taylor called for medical assistance.

Goepp then used scissors to cut through Adomako’s clothing, applied a “chest seal” dressing to two wounds on his chest, and applied pressure to a wound on Adomako’ s right side, the report says. Paramedics arrived and at 4:22 p.m. declared Adomako dead.

Taylor was treated at the hospital for a concussion, a finger fracture and a facial contusion. He also had “three minor puncture-like wounds on the left side of his chest and left armpit area,” which the report says were likely caused by the dog.

Taylor’s in-car camera system captured much of the altercation and the shooting; however, “audio did not exist for the police car video because Officer Taylor was not wearing the audio transmitter,” the report says.

Fremont police officials did not respond to questions Monday asking why Taylor wasn’t wearing his audio transmitter that day.

Lawyers for the family of Adomako filed a complaint for damages against the city and Taylor last November, alleging the officer used excessive force.

It should have been clear to Taylor that Adomako was “in the midst of some mental health breakdown or mental health crisis which necessitated the intervention of mental health professionals” when he was shot, the complaint says.

Adomako’s medical records confirmed that he suffered from “chronic schizophrenia’,” the District Attorney’s report says.

Taylor has been employed by the department since late 2008. Before the shooting, he had completed a “weeklong crisis intervention training for dealing with people with mental health issues,” according to the report.