Authorities Friday identified a woman whose body was found in a field off Interstate 35 as Debra Murdock Ballard, 58, of Ferris and said a person of interest in the woman’s death shot himself in the head after U.S. Marshals pulled him over.

Hill County officials said the suspect, Michael Andrew Hodge, 60, of Ferris died from his injuries in a hospital in the early morning hours Saturday.

Ballard’s body was found at around 4 p.m. Wednesday near Hill County Road 3102, not far from Abbott. The rancher who found the body as he was checking on cattle, said it was covered in a tarp near train tracks.

Officials said she had on clothes, but she did not have any identification on her. A justice of the peace ordered the body be sent to the Tarrant County Medial Examiner's Office for an autopsy.

Authorities identified her after she was reported missing Wednesday night in Ellis County by matching her tattoos.

An investigation led authorities to a possible suspect and they started to look for the man after search warrants were served Thursday in Ellis County with the assistance of the Texas Rangers.

After searching inside Ballard's home, the man she was dating, Michael Hodge, became a clear person of interest, according to officials with the Hill County Sheriff's Office.

Authorities said they had reason to believe Hodge may go out of state, so they called the U.S. Marshals Service for assistance.

At around 1 p.m. Friday, Marshals found the man in Kaufman County and pulled him over.

After stopping the man, he stepped out of his car and shot himself in the head, authorities said.

Hodge was taken to Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas where he later died, Hill County Chief Deputy Rick White said.

"As you might expect when you have these kind of situations, if they go unsolved it makes people a little unnerved, especially in rural areas where your nearest neighbor may be half a mile or a mile away," said White. "And so when we can bring closure quickly, it gives them a little big more confidence in their safety in the county."