STILLWATER -- District Attorney Rob Hudson ruled Monday that a Stillwater police officer was justified in fatally shooting a Logan County man during a drug raid Friday night near Langston.

Gilbert Leon Payne, 50, who died at the scene, had pointed a rifle at Officer John Latzke before Latzke shot him in a house 3- 1 / 2 miles south of Langston, the prosecutor said.

Hudson, who is the district attorney for Payne and Logan counties, said he ruled after receiving a preliminary report Monday from a shooting investigation team with the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation.

A written report will be submitted to Hudson in December after tests, such as ballistics, are completed, OSBI spokeswoman Jessica Brown said.

"Under the circumstances, the officer was justified," Hudson said. "He not only saved his life but possibly others', as well. This guy refused to obey officers, picked up a weapon (and) drew down on Latzke" before the officer fired.

Latzke, 32, a Marine Corps veteran who has been on the Stillwater police force for seven years, fired an AR-15 assault rifle three times at Payne, who was armed with a 30-06 rifle, Police Chief Norman McNickle said.

"Latzke feels that the rifle was pointed at his head. Another Stillwater police officer was immediately behind Latzke," McNickle said.

Both officers were at the Logan County residence, where a brick of marijuana was found, to help the district attorney's drug task force serve a search warrant for drugs, authorities said.

Payne, who was shot once in the lower right chest and once in the neck, did not fire his weapon, McNickle said.

"Had the subject fired, there were at least four officers that could have been hit" in the hallway by the front door, he said.

Payne was convicted of possessing a sawed-off shotgun in 1986 in Love County, escape from jail in 1988 in Stephens County and possession of cocaine with an intent to distribute in 1989 in Stephens County, state Corrections Department records show.

Payne received a 20-year prison term in his drug case but was released in 1994 when the Court of Criminal Appeals reversed his conviction, court records show.

"This guy had a number of guns." Hudson said. "He knew they were police. They were hollering, 'Police! Search warrant!' Where there are drugs, most of the time you find weapons."

McNickle said it was the first fatal shooting by a Stillwater officer in the 16 years he's been chief. He called Latzke "a good officer; he reacted as he was trained."

Latzke was not suspended but voluntarily took time off.

"Most people get into police work with a sense of being able to help people. The last thing they want to do is shoot anyone, because they know the ramifications, but sometimes you're placed in a situation where you have no other choice," McNickle said.