Five Commerce City police officers will not face criminal charges in the February shooting death of a man who repeatedly told them he wanted to die before he pointed a gun at them and threatened to fire it.

Cole Wooley, 50, died of multiple gunshot wounds after a two-hour standoff on the front porch of his home on Feb. 6. Five police officers fired a total of 17 rounds at Wooley, but 17th Judicial District Attorney Dave Young determined the officers made reasonable decisions to shoot, according to a letter about the investigation that Young sent to interim Commerce City Police Chief Clinton Nichols.

Police already had been to Wooley’s home once that evening after he and his sister got into a fight. After police arrested his sister and gave him a citation, Wooley’s wife called 911 to report that he had pointed a gun at her and was saying he wanted to die.

When officers returned to the house Wooley was pacing on the front porch, holding a .357-caliber revolver. Police officers negotiated with Wooley during the standoff, the letter said.

During that time, Wooley repeatedly told the officers he wanted them to shoot him, Young’s letter said. His statements, repeated in the letter, included, “What I need is to escape from this world, and what I want is for you guys to kill me,” and “I’m gonna do what it takes for you to end my life.”

Officer David Adams tried to subdue Wooley with a Taser but it was ineffective, the letter said. Officer Tyler Ahlem had been moving toward Wooley to help control him once the Taser hit.

Wooley raised his gun and began twisting his body to track Ahlem as he moved. Ahlem told investigators he dropped to his knee and began shooting, according to the letter.

Adams, officers Thomas Boskovich and Brandon Zborowski and Sgt. Rick Anderson also fired at Wooley, the letter said.

Young determined that the officers used a reasonable amount of force because Wooley had raised a gun toward them and they were reasonable in concluding that their lives were in danger, he wrote.

“The Commerce City Police officers dispatched to this scene attempted to negotiate with Mr. Wooley to end this situation in a manner to prevent anyone from getting hurt,” the letter said. “However, when Mr. Wooley started his countdowns, it became obvious to the police officers on scene that he was going to either shoot himself or do something to cause the officers to shoot him.”