Tulsa police investigators gather around the body of a man who killed himself Friday after leading officers on a chase that went the wrong direction on Interstate 244. The Police Department's efforts to find the man, Terreste Lamon Glass, were publicized this week through the "Tulsa's Most Wanted" program.

A. CUERVO / Tulsa World

The man also was wanted for questioning in a recent homicide.

A fugitive who was wanted on assault charges and also was sought for questioning in connection with a homicide fatally shot himself during a police pursuit Friday.

Officers were trying to arrest Terreste Lamon Glass, 27, on a warrant for assault and battery with a deadly weapon when the pursuit began.

Police also had wanted to question him about the shooting death of a woman who was found dead on a snowy Tulsa street Christmas Eve, Officer Andy Phillips said.

Officers who were attempting to serve the warrant located Glass, who used the alias "Ted," about 1 p.m. in the 800 block of North Yale Avenue.

He was driving a gold Oldsmobile when members of the Northern Oklahoma Fugitive Warrants Squad began following him, Phillips said.

The chase wound around the area of Admiral Place and Jamestown Avenue, and police lost sight of him, Phillips said.

Officers located him again, but in the meantime he had sideswiped a car near Third Street and Sheridan Road and then carjacked a tow truck from a man somewhere in the area of Sheridan Road to Hudson Avenue and Admiral Place. The tow truck driver was not injured.

"The tires on his car were blowing out, so he was trying to find a new vehicle to get away in," Phillips said.

The pursuit continued as far south as 11th Street, and then Glass fled back north and attempted to get onto Interstate 244, Phillips said, but he entered the highway going the wrong way.

"He was trying to go west in the eastbound lanes of the highway," he said. "But then he jumped the median and went all the way across the lanes and drove off the shoulder on the north side of the highway."

The wrecker came to rest on a grassy slope 50 to 60 feet from the side of the highway. Glass got out of the wrecker carrying a gun. Officers ordered him to drop the weapon, but he refused.

"The suspect put the weapon to his left temple and pulled the trigger," Phillips said.

Paramedics arrived at 1:40 p.m., Emergency Medical Service Authority spokeswoman Tina Wells said. They pronounced him dead two minutes later.

Glass had been listed as "Tulsa's Most Wanted" this week by the Crime Stoppers program. His picture was featured in Thursday's Tulsa World, and he was being sought in a Dec. 27 knife attack.

In that attack, a man was hospitalized in critical condition after being stabbed multiple times during an apparent robbery, court records show.

The victim was stabbed at his apartment in the 5100 block of East 47th Place and then ran to a nearby convenience store to get help.

Police received that call about 8 a.m. When officers arrived at the apartment, they found a broken window and blood throughout the home. Shortly after the attack, police said they had a suspect in the case.

Phillips said police also wanted to question Glass about the Dec. 24 homicide of Robin Brown, whose body was found near Seventh Street and Nogales Avenue.

The nature of her injuries was not immediately apparent when she was found along the snowy street on Christmas Eve, police said. When she was examined later at the Medical Examiner's Office, it was discovered that she had suffered a gunshot wound to the head.

Detectives have said they were investigating some leads in the case, but no one had been arrested. Later that night, Brown's vehicle was found abandoned at the Town West Shopping Center, 5616 W. Skelly Drive. The car was examined for evidence.

Glass had pleaded guilty Nov. 1 to eluding police and was free on bond awaiting sentencing, records show.

Nicole Marshall, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8459 or via e-mail at nicole.marshall@tulsaworld.com.