A Tulsa woman credits a 911 caller and police with saving her life after an officer fatally shot a man who was stabbing and beating her Tuesday night.

Darryl Keith Shaw, 47, was shot once in the head. He died at the scene.

Pam Hobby, 44, said Wednesday that she had been stabbed in the chest and arm and was treated at a hospital and released.

Officer Charlie Hardaway, who fired the gunshot when he saw Hobby being attacked, was placed on routine administrative leave with pay pending an investigation of the shooting.

Police were dispatched just before 11:30 p.m. Tuesday to the 11th Street Bridge just west of Riverside Drive to investigate a domestic dispute.

When they arrived, they saw a man on top of a woman, repeatedly plunging a large knife into her, Officer Scott Walton said.

"When the suspect observed the officers, he began to stab the victim more violently with a large buck-style knife," Walton said.

Sgt.Mike Huff said officers yelled for Shaw to drop the knife, but when he didn't, Hardaway fired one shot to stop the attack.

Hobby said Shaw had been her boyfriend for about two years and that they both have been homeless.

Shaw had convictions for cocaine distribution, assault and battery with a deadly weapon, and possession of contraband while an inmate in a correctional institution.

Hobby said the pair had been drinking Tuesday night but that she doesn't know what sparked Shaw's anger.

"He was just not being himself," she said. "He started talking about throwing me off the bridge. We started physically fighting, and he couldn't get me over the bridge.

"When he got me down on the ground, he started stabbing me," she said.

Hobby said someone in a passing car yelled at Shaw, but that just made him angrier. When the police officers arrived, Hobby yelled to them that she was being stabbed.

She said Shaw was "going for my throat" when she heard the shot. Shaw fell backward off her.

"What keeps running through my mind is that he was about to slash my throat. It just gives me the creeps," Hobby said.

She is tired and sore from the attack and is staying with a friend while she recuperates, she said.

"If it wasn't for the police and the person who called them, I wouldn't be here today," Hobby said. "I feel blessed."

Nicole Marshall 581-8459