A deputy also shot at the man, who authorities say was planning to ambush officers.

TURLEY -- A standoff ended Friday when a man apparently killed himself inside a travel trailer after a Tulsa County sheriff's deputy found him waiting to ambush officers, officials said.

Sheriff's deputies and drug task force officers approached the trailer on 63rd Street North between Frankfort Avenue and Frankfort Place with an arrest warrant for Gregory Paul Farmer, Tulsa County Chief Deputy Brian Edwards said.

Tulsa County Sgt. Rick Treadwell walked behind the trailer about 2:30 p.m. and surprised Farmer, who Edwards said was hiding around the trailer's corner.

"Preliminary investigation shows that he (Farmer) was getting ready to ambush the guys coming up to the front door," Edwards said. "The deputy went around behind this travel trailer and found him and challenged him."

Farmer, 31, turned and pointed a handgun at the deputy, Edwards alleged, and Treadwell shot at him at least once, but it was not clear whether he hit Farmer.

Farmer then fled into the trailer. Deputies "heard him screaming, and then there was a second shot from inside the trailer," Edwards said.

Believing that Farmer was barricaded inside, deputies called the Tulsa County Special Operations Team to assist, and the team entered the trailer about 4:15 p.m.

Edwards said Farmer was found dead inside, apparently from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. A handgun was found near his body.

Initial reports indicated that Farmer shot at the deputies, but that could not be confirmed.

Authorities had planned to arrest Farmer on Washington County charges of manufacturing methamphetamine, child en dangerment and possession of a controlled dangerous substance with an intent to distribute it, Edwards said. Records show that Farmer was from Collinsville.

"We had the (trailer) under surveillance," Tulsa County Sgt. Willie Lewis said.

Deputies arrested one man, Michael Ray Duggan, on Tulsa municipal warrants, Edwards said. Duggan apparently was at the trailer around the time of the standoff.

The medical examiner preliminarily attributed Farmer's death to his head wound, Edwards said.

However, until the investigation and autopsy are complete, he said, Treadwell will be placed on paid administrative leave because it was unclear whether he also shot Farmer.

"It's obvious that Deputy Treadwell's actions prevented any of the officers from being seriously injured," Edwards said.

Matt Elliott 581-8366