A man who tried to elude the Oklahoma Highway Patrol on Friday, resulting in the death of a woman, had made a dramatic escape in Wisconsin the day before, officials said Monday.

Cesar Lira, 33, jumped handcuffed from a wheelchair as he was being taken into a Milwaukee hospital and leaped into the open window of a car that sped away, a Wisconsin Department of Corrections spokesman said.

Lira remained in a Tulsa hospital Monday while authorities prepared charges involving Friday's traffic death of a Milwaukee woman.

Lira was still under guard at St. John Medical Center, OHP Lt. Brandon Kopepasah said.

Lira was driving a 1997 red Oldsmobile Friday afternoon when he led OHP troopers on a chase from Stroud to Bristow on the Turner Turnpike.

Troopers had stopped Lira for an improper lane change in the westbound lanes, but he sped off the highway at the Stroud exit, drove around Stroud and got back on the turnpike's eastbound lanes.

As he attempted to exit at Bristow, he rolled off a curve and down an embankment. He and a 6-year-old girl were ejected from the vehicle as it rolled.

Front-seat passenger Marilyn Ordonez, 27, was killed, the OHP reported.

The child is the daughter of Lira and Ordonez, troopers said.

The OHP will ask Creek County District Attorney Max Cook to file a murder charge involving Ordonez's death. Wisconsin is expected to seek Lira's return after any Creek County charge is resolved.

Lira originally had been identified by the OHP as a Wisconsin federal prison escapee. But a U.S. Marshals Service spokesman in Milwaukee said the agency was only helping state and local officials capture Lira.

Lira was on parole when he was arrested in January after Milwaukee police raided a "drug house."

He had been held at the Milwaukee Secure Detention Facility since January and was being treated at a local hospital for injuries he sustained during his arrest, said Bill Clausius, a Wisconsin Department of Corrections spokesman.

Lira was taken to the hospital for his fifth visit Thursday. As officers pushed his wheelchair toward the hospital, he jumped up and into the sedan's open window, Clausius said.

Ralph Marler 581-8480