A source identifies the dead as a man and his stepfather; police call it "murder-suicide."

A man who killed one person and took at least one hostage turned the shotgun on himself after holding police at bay Thursday afternoon.

Detective Harry Hunt described the deaths of the two men as a "murder-suicide."

Marvana Hodges, a friend of the shooter's, identified him as Mark Anthony Davidson. The name of the other man, whom Davidson reportedly referred to as his stepfather, was not released late Thursday.

Hodges said Davidson had run out of anti-depressants and was distraught over his inability to find work.

"He just unraveled and unraveled and unraveled," said Hodges, sobbing uncontrollably. "I knew it was going to end like this."

Hodges said she was told that Davidson accidentally killed his stepfather.

Officers did not confirm that account and released few details about what sparked the events.

Police were first called to the duplex at 1214 S. 73rd East Ave. around 9 a.m., Officer Scott Walton said.

"They went out there and looked around, but there was not enough information on the call. They could not find anything suspicious, so they left," he said.

They were called again about 1 p.m., Walton said.

A woman -- possibly Hodges -- called and said she had been held against her will inside the duplex and that someone who had been shot was inside. It was unclear how long the woman was held in the duplex.

This time, police made contact with someone who they believed was Davidson.

"They knocked on the door, and they could hear someone ask, 'Who's there?' " Walton said. "But then the man failed to open the door and comply with officers' commands."

Learning that Davidson was barricaded inside, the Police Department dispatched its Special Operations Team and homicide detectives.

Officers interviewed people who had been inside the residence and learned that Davidson had kept at least one person, Richard Warren, in the duplex against his will overnight. He was eventually released, but it was not known Thursday night if he was injured.

The witnesses also told police that Davidson had pushed a refrigerator against a back door to prevent someone from getting inside. Police also learned that he might have a shotgun, a rifle equipped with a scope and another gun.

Police evacuated the houses surrounding Davidson's duplex and prevented people from returning to houses in the vicinity, Walton said.

"If he has long guns like they said, we need to make sure everyone is safe," Walton said while the police kept vigil outside.

Cheryl Lark and her nephew Jason Perkins live in the duplex north of Davidson's.

Perkins said an officer knocked on his door about 1:30 p.m. and told him to leave because "there was a man barricaded with a gun across the way."

When he left his house, he saw police officers talking to a woman, he said.

"She was crying. She was real hysterical," Perkins said.

Lark said she left about 12:45 p.m. but saw nothing unusual.

"Everything was quiet," she said. "But when I came back, I couldn't even get down the street because of all the police cars."

Perkins said Davidson lived at the duplex with a man he knew as Davidson's father. The men had lived there for about seven years, he said.

"He (Davidson) was real quiet. I would talk to him every once in a while. He seemed like a nice guy," Perkins said.

Even though he was home all morning, Perkins said he didn't hear any shots or a disturbance.

SOT negotiators tried calling Davidson, but he never answered the phone. Then they fired the first of several rounds of tear gas into the duplex.

About 4:15 p.m., a team of SOT officers entered the duplex and saw two bodies, apparently Davidson and his stepfather, in the living room.

Court records show that Davidson has a criminal record dating back several decades. In 1977, he pleaded guilty to robbery with a firearm in Comanche County and was sentenced to five years in prison.

In 1985, he pleaded guilty to unlawful possession of firearms in Creek County and received a five-year suspended sentence, records show. He also received a one-year suspended sentence that year on a reduced charge of aggravated assault and battery.

In 1997, Davidson pleaded guilty in Tulsa County District Court to possession of controlled drugs, including methamphetamine; possession of paraphernalia; and resisting an officer. He was sentenced to five years in prison and was released in 1999, records show.

According to a presentencing investigation report, Davidson was arrested at the home of a Sand Springs couple who called the police after he refused to leave. Davidson struggled with police during the arrest, and officers used pepper spray to subdue him.

Davidson reported a variety of financial problems, including filing bankruptcy in 1997.

"Defendant is presently depending on the generosity of a man Defendant calls his 'step father' (but is actually no relation whatsoever) for his housing and support," the report states.

Davidson told investigators that: "I am diligently seeking employment, and plan to try real hard to put my life back together. In the recent past I have had a younger brother who died of AIDS, my stepdad had a heart attack, and I lost my home and land in a bankruptcy. I have been under a tremendous amount of stress, with little or no support."

Arrest records show that Davidson has lived at the residence on 73rd East Avenue since at least 1996.

World staff writers Ziva Branstetter and Curtis Killman contributed to this story.

Nicole Marshall 581-8459

Matt Elliott 581-8366