Jaime A Cardenas, Natalie Neysa Alund, and Ariana Maia Sawyer

The Tennessean

On Feb. 10, Jocques Clemmons was shot three times by Nashville Police Officer Joshua Lippert-- twice in the lower back and once in his left hip. Here's what we know:

Who's involved in the investigation?

The office of District Attorney Glenn Funk is investigating and the FBI is monitoring the Metro Nashville Police Department's ongoing investigation into a deadly officer-involved shooting on Friday at Cayce Homes. The FBI will come to their own conclusion about the investigation independently of Metro Police.

“The investigation is active and progressing. We are engaging with the FBI," Metro Police Chief Steve Anderson said in a statement on Tuesday. "Citizens have my assurance that the investigation will be fair, objective and complete."

The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Tennessee and the NCAAP Nashville the Nashville Branch of the NAACP have both called for the investigation to be immediate and transparent investigation. Additionally, the NAACP called for body cameras for Metro police, which Mayor Megan Barry committed to funding in October of 2016.

What we know of Jocques Clemmons

Clemmons, 31, has a long criminal history in Davidson County that dates back to at least 2003 and includes more than a dozen misdemeanor traffic offense. He was on probation after receiving an eight-year sentence in 2014 for a drug conviction.

He had two children, ages 13 and 8. Family members created a GoFundMe page to help with funeral expanses. More than 220 people had raised almost $9,000 in three days.

What we know of Officer Joshua Lippert

Lippert, 32, has been with the Nashville police department five years. He is currently on routine administrative duties while that investigation is pending. Lippert has spent 20 days suspended for various police code violations, including two instances involving physical use of force, according to Metro police records.

In October 2015, Lippert used physical force to pull a black motorist from the vehicle during a traffic stop, even though the driver said he'd be willing to get out in the presence of a supervisor. Lippert was also reprimanded for having the man's car towed without giving him a chance to park the car or turn it over to someone else.

What we know of the incident

At 12:55 p.m., on Friday, Feb. 10, Lippert approached Clemmons after a failure to observe a stop sign. Clemmons, driving a gray SUV, pulled into a parking lot on South Sixth Street in front of the James A. Cayce Homes parking lot. Lippert, driving in an unmarked police car, pulled into the parking lot driveway behind the SUV.

Police said the uniformed patrol officer walked up to Clemmons, who was stepping out of his SUV, to talk to him about the traffic violation. Citing MDHA footage, Police initially said Clemmons body-checked officer Lippert but footage released by police on Tuesday shows Clemmons attempting to run past the officer and doubling back and running the other way with Lippert in pursuit.

The new video was not available to police until Monday due to a broken Metro Development and Housing Agency computer server, police said.

Police said Clemmons appeared to be holding something in his waistband during the chase. When the officer caught up with his suspect, the two struggled again, and a fully loaded .357 Magnum dropped onto the concrete.

At one point, Clemmons had a gun in his hand and refused to drop it when Lippert told him to, police said. Lippert believed he was in danger and opened fire, police said. Clemmons was struck twice in the lower back and once in his left hip, police said. He later died in surgery.

The entire incident lasted just over one minute.

In a statement, police speculated that, since it's illegal to carry a weapon after being convicted of a felony, Clemmons may have tried to run because he was on probation.

Here's who's spoken out about the incident

Nashville Mayor Megan Barry

"Since Friday, I have been closely monitoring the officer involved shooting that resulted in the death of Jocques Clemmons. I appreciate that the MNPD has been forthcoming in quickly releasing information about the shooting. There will be a full and thorough investigation of all the facts in this case before any final judgements are rendered. My thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of Mr. Clemmons and all those grieving his loss.”

ACLU-Tennessee executive director Hedy Weinberg:

"The shooting of Jocques Clemmons did not happen in a vacuum. While further investigation will undoubtedly focus on uncovering additional details about what occurred after Officer Joshua Lippert stopped Mr. Clemmons, incidents like these also compel us to take a step back and ask why Mr. Clemmons was stopped in the first place and how officers make decisions about who to stop for minor traffic infractions. Any one discretionary stop risks a tragic ending if there is an escalation of conflict – far too frequently such escalations result in police use of force, and also expose police to unnecessary risk."

Nashville NAACP President Ludye N. Wallace:

"We value the efforts of police when they are serving and protecting, however, we will not standby and allow disproportionate violence against African Americans. We need an immediate and transparent, complete and expedient investigation that is led by the district attorney and even, if necessary, federal agencies."

Gideon’s Army, a group that aims to curb the school-to-prison pipeline and has recently criticized the police force for conducting too many traffic stops that disproportionately impact minorities.

"The deaths of black men and women at the hands of police continue to persist. Nashville is no exception. Police violence lives here. It is woven deeply into the fabric of this city, and today we see it in the most horrendous form. We see the pattern of state violence--taking black lives--and we will continue to hold the police and our City accountable."

Additionally, the story has captured the attention of national media outlets NY Daily News and Fusion.

Read more about Clemmons-Lippert incident:

New video details early interactions before officer-involved shooting

FBI to monitor Metro police investigation into officer-involved shooting

How the Cayce Homes fatal officer-involved shooting unfolded

Nashville reacts to officer-involved shooting

Reach Natalie Neysa Alund at nalund@tennessean.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund. Reach Ariana Sawyer at asawyer@tennessean.com or on Twitter @a_maia_sawyer.