HERMON, Maine — A local man who died during an exchange of gunfire with police Sunday night at his home on Buck Lane in Hermon died by his own hand, Brenda Kielty, a special assistant in the Maine attorney general’s office, said Monday.

Michael McKay, 24, died at his home.

“The medical examiner has determined he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head,” Kielty said. “Mr. McKay also had a gunshot wound to the leg caused by Trooper [Gregory] Roy.”

Earlier in the day, Kielty had said “there was an armed confrontation” between McKay and law enforcement officers after he “allegedly threatened some people in Kenduskeag and returned to his residence.”

Roy is a member of the tactical team and was placed on paid administrative leave after the shooting, which is the protocol whenever there is an officer-involved death, Kielty said.

He will remain on leave while the AG’s office investigates the shooting death, she said. State police likely will conduct their own investigation, she said.

Maine State Police handled the threatening incident in Kenduskeag, the Hermon standoff, which started about 6 p.m., and the armed confrontation.

A man at a house off Townhouse Road in Kenduskeag called police about 5:45 p.m. Sunday to say McKay was upset and shot his wife’s vehicle three times as he left, state police Lt. Louie Nyitray confirmed Monday.

Nyitray, who was in charge of sending officers to Hermon but was not at the scene himself, said he could not confirm reports that McKay was holding a gun to his head while inside the Kenduskeag residence.

After the Kenduskeag incident, McKay jumped into a vehicle and drove home to his residence on Buck Lane in Hermon, according to Kielty. He was followed by at least 10 law enforcement vehicles, which blocked access to the short dead-end roadway and the adjacent portions of Creamery Road, according to a Bangor Daily News photographer.

Buck Lane is located about a half-mile from Hermon Mountain Ski Area.

Kielty and Nyitray could not say at exactly what time the exchange of gunfire took place.

McKay graduated from Wiscasset High School in 2005, according to his Facebook page. Friends and loved ones started to post messages on the page at about 11 p.m. Sunday expressing their condolences.

“Mike you will be missed beyond words. … My heart is breaking right now and not really sure how to handle it,” one person posted.