Tyrone Jones

Elijah Green

Anthony Twan Prophet

(Columbia) June 28, 2006 - Officers chased a suspect in a shooting Wednesday. After an exchange of gunfire, they found Anthony Prophet's body. Prophet died due to a gunshot wound, and the coroner says the shot apparently came from an extremely close range.

After an autopsy Thursday, Coroner Gary Watts says the evidence indicates Prophet shot himself, "What I can tell you now is that the weapon that was recovered next to him is the weapon that fired the fatal shot."

Watts says the autopsy shows Prophet died of a single wound to the head, a contact wound, the gun fired close enough to leave the impression of the barrel. That impression can also be used to determine the size of the gun.

Sheriff Leon Lott says it's clear the gun that killed Prophet was different than the .40 caliber Glock fired by his officer, "It's completely different, and the fact that you have a contact wound. The officer's shooting at a distance, and a contact wound."

News 10 has also learned investigators have found the bullet that killed Prophet. If matched to the gun located next to his body, a .357 Ruger, there will be more evidence that Prophet ended his own life.

Richland County sheriff's deputies responded to Prophet's girlfriend's house at about 3:30pm Wednesday on tips that he was there.

Officials say they saw Prophet running away when they got there. Prophet took off from Woodridge and ran half a block up Hillcrest. Deputies say Prophet then turned around and fired a shot. And in return, one deputy fired several shots back.

Sheriff Lott is defending the deputy's actions, "No doubt in my mind that the officer's life was in jeopardy, and Mr. Prophet was already wanted for murder."

Shortly afterwards, Prophet was found dead, apparently killed by a gunshot wound to the head.

Prophet was a suspect in a murder that happened two weeks ago. In that incident, Tyrone Jones was robbed and killed. Another man - 17-year-old Elijah Green - was also charged with Jones' murder.

Mid-morning on June 14, 29-year-old Tyrone Jones was last seen leaving his home at Bethel Bishop Apartments in a green Ford Taurus with tinted windows. At about 12:30pm that same day, he was found coming out of the woods beside Fairfield Road with an injury to the left side of his head.

He was transported to Palmetto Richland Memorial where doctors discovered that he had been shot. Jones died in the hospital from the gunshot wound the next day.

Richland County investigators were able to interview Jones prior to his death. After interviewing people believed to be with Jones at the time of the shooting, investigators were able to charge Green.

Green was arrested on Tuesday and booked into the Alvin S. Glenn Detention Center later that night. Investigators believe that Green and Prophet shot the Jones and fled on foot after robbing him.

udpated 10:05pm by Bryce Mursch