A day at work, a shopping trip after. Typical day for one North family. A bit of supper, then catch the news on TV before going to bed around 10 p.m.

Then came the visit. It’s the visit any parent of a teenaged driver fears far above all others.

“At 12:30, we got a knock on the door and it’s the coroner,” Debbie Noll said. “He said he wanted to know if I was Trey Noll’s mother. I said, ‘yes,’ and I asked if he was OK. And he just shook his head no.”

From that moment to this, time has stood still for the Nolls. And for 16-year-old Trey Noll’s friends. It was July 27, the date that calendars and time were no longer relevant for a mother grieving over the loss of her youngest child.

“I just want kids to realize how precious life is,” Debbie Noll said. “It’s a parent’s worst nightmare.”

Ryan Berry and Jacob Burger, two of Trey’s closest friends, said this past summer had been a good one for the trio of teens working on their cars, swimming, wolfing down pizza, including Trey’s favorite – sausage.

“Every day I came home, I’d see him sitting out by the pool,” Burger said, smiling at the recollection.

There was the trip to Lake Norman in North Carolina, sitting around Burger’s family pool just talking or tuning to Twisted Sister’s “We’re Not Gonna Take It.”

The boys also teased one another with voice mail messages in the early morning hours, telling the recipient to wake up.

Then came July 27.

“It’s changed my whole life, it’s changed the way I act,” Berry said. “I take life for granted, all kids do.”

Trey had some speakers installed in his 1999 Nissan 300ZX at a local car audio shop. That was Wednesday, July 26.

The following morning, as the family prepared for its day, Debbie told Trey she loved him, “and he told me ‘I love you, too, Mom.’”

“And that was the last time I saw him, alive,” Debbie said.

That afternoon, the boys went to Columbia to visit friends and stopped off for dinner. The teens then returned to Orangeburg where they had intended to go swimming at Burger’s home.

The boys’ plans were for Trey to spend the night with Ryan. At some point around 9:15 p.m., Trey changed his mind. He wanted to go home.

He never made it.

The South Carolina Highway Patrol said that at around 9:39 p.m., a trooper clocked Trey on U.S. 178 near Wolfton traveling west at about 74 mph in a 55 zone. A brief chase ensued, according to officials.

But in a steep valley in the roadway about two miles from Nolls’ home, Trey collided head-on with a 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix, driven by a 28-year-old North woman.

The North woman survived. However, Trey was ejected from his car. He was killed instantly.

As the coroner informed Trey’s mother and brother of the accident, Debbie recalled her legs going numb, then screaming.

Joe, Trey’s father, “had already gone to bed, and he jumped up and asked what’s wrong,” Debbie said. “And I said, ‘Trey, he’s gone.’”

The Nolls were asked to make that long ride to the morgue to identify their son.

But on the way, they came upon the crash scene. The mangled Nissan sat in mute testimony to the violence of the crash. The Nolls later learned Trey had lain at the crash scene for two hours.

“I just don’t understand why it took so long for us to be notified that Trey had been killed,” Debbie said. “It seemed they’re not trying to find out who he was.”

Then, the worst moments of any parents’ lives came to pass.

“He was just so peaceful, I just wanted to pick him up and hold him,” Debbie said of the nightmare trip to the morgue. “And all I could smell was gasoline; it was in his hair.”

Of the crash, Debbie said she believes Trey panicked. He’d left his wallet and driver’s license in a friend’s car, she said.

“I just think that Trey got scared, he didn’t know what to do,” she said. “I know there was a dog (in the road), and the dog was hit. I don’t know if that made him lose control of the car. I just don’t know.”

Made of two steel pipes and painted white, a cross was erected at the crash site by Zach Leonard, another of Trey’s buddies. A palm tree is planted at the base of the cross.

“No one’s going to forget him, but it’s kind of like a memorial,” Leonard said.

Having known each other since they were in day care together, Zach Livingston said he’ll miss the golf games, the laughter at a bad shot. Livingston said he’ll miss his best friend.

He said simply, “I will miss him very much.”

Joe Noll could not bring himself to talk about his son, so close were the two.

Today, the “nest” is empty. Trey’s older brother, Cory, has left for his freshman year of college at Clemson University.

Debbie says she visits Trey, who’s buried at Fellowship Baptist Church about a half-mile from the crash scene. She stops by at least once a day. Sometimes twice.

“I talk with him and visit with him,” she said. “It makes me feel at peace in the mornings when I stop by.”

Meanwhile, living a parent’s worst nightmare, a grieving mother speaks out to parents and teens.

“Just hug them every day and tell them how much you love them,” Debbie said. “Just be there for them, I wish I could turn back time. I wished I’d hugged him harder that morning.

“I miss Trey so much.”

— T&D Staff Writer Richard Walker can be reached by e-mail at rwalker@timesanddemocrat.com or by telephone at 803-533-5516. Discuss this and other stories on-line at TheTandD.com.