EHRHARDT — A man suspected of robbing an Ehrhardt bank Thursday was shot and killed in Colleton County, apparently as he was trying to flee police.

Terry H. Kinard of 2528 Lumber Road, Ruffin, died Thursday. The FBI, relying upon information from the Bamberg County Sheriff's Department, identified him as the suspect in the robbery of Enterprise Bank of South Carolina in Ehrhardt.

An armed man, who wasn't wearing a disguise, entered the bank at about 1:30 p.m., walked up to a teller's station brandishing his weapon and demanded cash, bank President William H. Varn Jr. said.

"He had a pistol and he pointed it straight at her," Varn said. "We have no idea how much he took.

"We've been here, in this location, since 1960 and this is the first time we've been robbed."

The robber fled the scene with the cash. Officers later caught up with Kinard at a location along S.C. Highway 64 known as Stephen's Crossroads, approximately 12 miles east of Ehrhardt.

"It is my understanding that a Terry H. Kinard was taken into custody," said Agent Tom O'Neill of the Columbia office of the FBI. "That is the information that the Bamberg County Sheriff's Office has given us."

Varn said, "They caught him and he's dead."

Colleton County Coroner Richard M. Harvey confirmed Kinard's death from a gunshot wound.

Bamberg County Sheriff's Department officials would not release information about the robbery, referring questions to Sheriff Ed Darnell. Darnell was out of town Thursday.

The tellers on duty at the time of the robbery did not know the robber, according to bank employees. When the video was viewed, some of the other employees recognized him, they said.

Varn said Kinard grew up in Ehrhardt and spent much of his time in the Islandton area and the Little Swamp community.

"I knew his grandparents," Varn said. "One set was from Islandton and the other set was from the Little Swamp community."

At 4:05 p.m., approximately 2-1/2 hours after the robbery, the Bamberg County sheriff's deputies removed the crime scene tape from around the bank and business was resumed, but with caution. The main entrance was locked and Varn was there with the key to let customers enter.

Bamberg County sheriff's deputies and agents from the State Law Enforcement Division were on the scene at the bank.

At Stephen's Crossroad, where the suspect was located, Bamberg County sheriff's deputies, Colleton County sheriff's deputies, agents from SLED and the South Carolina Highway Patrol were on the scene.

"We'll have a lot to talk about in our prayers tonight," said Faye Polk, a teller at the bank. "The Lord took care of us today; he'll do the same tomorrow. So I won't worry."

T&D Staff Writer Thomas Brown can be reached at tbrown@timesanddemocrat.com and 803-533-5532.