Skip to comments.

Massillon officer killed: Armed motorist also dies in shootout

The Times Reporter (New Philadelphia, OHIO) ^ | August 11, 2002 | By R.J. VILLELLA, Copley News Service

Posted on by ResistorSister

MASSILLON – The chase which ended Friday evening with the deaths of a Massillon police officer and a 61-year-old Jackson Township man began over a speeding ticket.

The Ohio Highway Patrol, in a press conference Saturday morning, said Donald W. Matthews, of 6688 Casper Ave. N.W., off Portage St. near Lake O’Springs Ave., killed Massillon patrolman Eric Taylor, 31, in a shootout following the pursuit.

Sgt. Jim Mizeres, who heads the Massillon detective bureau, said Massillon Ptl. Tom Solinger also was wounded in the gun battle. He was hit with a fragment of a bullet and received treatment for the injury.

Matthews was armed with a Czechoslovakian CZ-762x25 semi-automatic military handgun, said Major James Walker, in charge of field operations for the patrol.

A trooper first stopped Matthews for going 72 mph in a 60 mph zone, reports indicated.

Trooper Joseph Hershey, 25, of the Wooster post, stopped Matthews’ 1992 Ford Taurus at 8:28 p.m. on Rt. 21 near Edwards St. in Doylestown, just north of Clinton.

According to Walker, Hershey asked Matthews for his license, but Matthews only rolled his window down a crack and wouldn’t give Walker his license.

“He said something about his 13th Amendment rights and drove off,” Walker explained.

Lt. Gary D. Lewis Jr., who handles public affairs for the patrol, said investigators are attempting to determine if Matthews was tied to a militia group.

Patriot groups and strict Constitutionalists claim the “missing” 13th Amendment prohibits lawyers from serving in government.

Walker and Lewis both said Matthews had a clean driving record and no criminal record they could find.

“He had a valid license and no warrant,” Walker noted.

The only local court records on Matthews were two tax cases involving the state of Ohio in the Stark County Common Pleas Court, one from 1992 and another from 1993.

Also in April 1993, his wife, Catherine, filed for a divorce, but the case was dismissed in 1994.

Authorities don’t know if Matthews’ background was related to Friday’s shootings.

“We don’t yet know the reason for the incident,” Walker said. “We may never know.”

Matthews was stopped a second time on Rt. 21, but took off again southbound before Hershey, who has been a trooper since March 2001, could take any action, Walker noted.



Massillon Police Officer J.J. DiLoreto (R) comforts

fellow officer Kervin Brown during a police memorial

service early Saturday morning as they carry flowers to

the sight where Officer Eric Taylor was killed

Friday night. Copley News Service

Five Massillon police officers in four cruisers joined the pursuit near Cherry Rd., he said.

Mizeres and Walker said an investigation still is being conducted and they can’t disclose all the details but it is believed it was at that point that Matthews pulled into the gravel lot just behind The Arena construction trailers at Cherry Rd. and 1st St.

Hershey saw Matthews reach down and swing around with a handgun.

“The trooper retreated,” Walker said, “and Matthews spun off.”

Matthews bailed out of his car and began firing, reports indicated. The car, which had been left in drive, continued into the ditch at the edge of the old Agathon field.

Mizeres said three Massillon officers will be placed on administrative leave, standard procedure following a shooting.

In all, three or four Massillon officers fired shots in addition to Trooper Hershey, who was not injured.

Stark County Coroner James Pritchard said Taylor, who was wearing a protective vest as is required by the Massillon Police Department, was struck in the buttocks by a bullet that traveled up through his body, damaging vital organs.

Lewis said Hershey will be placed on administrative leave, also standard procedure. Neither the patrol cruiser nor the Massillon cruiser were equipped with a camera.



TOPICS:

Crime/Corruption

Culture/Society

Extended News

News/Current Events

US: Ohio

KEYWORDS:

inthelineofduty

Follow up on the first story. Find first story thread HERE.



To: betty boop; Larry Lucido; dirtboy; Shooter 2.5; Dan from Michigan; one_particular_harbour; Jimer; ..

FYI



To: ResistorSister

Sad bump.



To: Cultural Jihad; Molly Pitcher

Stark County Coroner James Pritchard said Taylor, who was wearing a protective vest as is required by the Massillon Police Department, was struck in the buttocks by a bullet that traveled up through his body, damaging vital organs. Horrible.



To: ResistorSister

No one forced the officers to make unconstitutional traffic stops, after all.< /sacasm >



To: Cultural Jihad

Have you ever heard of the 13th Amendment?



To: ResistorSister

Stark County Coroner James Pritchard said Taylor, who was wearing a protective vest as is required by the Massillon Police Department, was struck in the buttocks by a bullet that traveled up through his body, damaging vital organs. Which way was Officer Taylor facing at the time? Or is it alleged that Matthews shot him in the back? In which case, why did the officer have his back turned against the source of the alleged threat? Just wondering....



To: Howlin

FYI



To: betty boop

Don't know yet, betty boop. More stories will be published tomorrow...hopefully they will be able to answer your questions.



To: ResistorSister

I am tellen ya ,somethin aint right with this story. If he was facining his attacker, how did he get a bullet in the but traveling to his organs.I thought an earlier report had him getting shot in the neck traveling into the chest cavity,someone set me straight here and no CJ none of your rhetoric needed.



To: ResistorSister

Our prayers for the Officers family and friends.



To: eastforker

The shooter was shot in the neck. The officer in the buttock.



To: eastforker

surprise,surprise surprise,no camera!



To: eastforker

Because he may have seen the gun and instinctively turned and bent down from the waist. The shooter was sitting in the car and was at the right height to have hit him in that spot.



To: Travis McGee

was struck in the buttocks by a bullet that traveled up through his body, damaging vital organs. Huh?



To: ResistorSister

Apparently there is some debate about whether the original XIII amendment was passed by Virgina in 1811/1812.



To: ResistorSister

I didn't see that,please enlighten me.



To: ResistorSister

"If any citizen of the United States shall accept, claim, receive, or retain, any title of nobility, or honor, or shall, without the consent of Congress, accept any present, pension, office, oremolument, of any kind what ever, from any Emperor, King, Prince or foreign Power, such person shall cease to be a citizen of the United States, and shall be incapable of holding any office of trust or profit under them, or either of them."



To: Texasforever

There was a gun seen in the initial stop,they knew he was armed.



To: nunya bidness

A lot of rounds were being fired, probably by folks scrambling and diving in all directions for cover. People can get shot in strange ways in the melee.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson