The man was shot dead Saturday morning by a Tulsa police officer who was returning fire, authorities say.

A Tulsa police officer fatally shot an Oklahoma City homicide suspect Saturday morning at a local apartment complex.

Brian Dennehy, 28, was shot and killed after firing at an officer in the parking lot at the Waterford Apartments complex, police reported.

The officer's identity was not released Saturday.

Dennehy was a suspect in the killing of his grandfather, Bernard Dennehy, whose body was found Thursday outside a tire shop in Oklahoma City. Tulsa police received a call from Oklahoma City police about 9 a.m. Saturday, asking for assistance in finding a homicide suspect thought to be in Tulsa, police reported.

Oklahoma City police had a description of the suspect's vehicle and an idea of where he might be found, police reported.

Based on that information, officers responded to an apartment complex to search for the suspect, but neither the man nor his vehicle were there, Sgt. Kim Presley said.

An officer responding to another apartment complex in the 5100 block of South Harvard Avenue spotted the suspect's vehicle, Presley said.

The vehicle, a tan Buick, appeared to be unoccupied, Cpl. Shane Tuell said.

However, Dennehy apparently was inside the car, lying back in his seat and pointing a revolver at the officer, Tuell said.

The officer was walking toward the car and talking on his radio when a shot was fired at him, Tuell said. The gunshot was heard over the radio, he said.

"As he approached, the suspect actually popped up in the vehicle and fired," Tuell said. "The officer didn't believe the suspect was near the vehicle."

Dennehy fired once, missing the officer and hitting the police car in the passenger side, Tuell said.

The officer returned fire, and Dennehy was struck twice in the upper torso and once in the head, Tuell said.

Dennehy died at the scene.

Tuell said it looks as though the officer was following procedure while checking the suspect's vehicle and that his action possibly prevented harm to residents at the apartments.

"In a shooting situation, particularly when someone is shooting at you, we're taught to get in an area of concealment," Tuell said. "For him to actually stand there and return fire, that's a tough thing to do."

The officer likely would not have approached the car if he thought it was occupied, Tuell said.

"We're taught that, if someone is armed, do not escalate the situation," Tuell said. "If the officer had realized he was in the car, he would not have approached. But he was approaching a vehicle that appeared to be abandoned."

Tuell said the officer involved in the shooting will be removed from duty while the incident is investigated.

Dennehy was a suspect in the recent killing of his grandfather in Oklahoma City, police reported.

Retired Air Force Col. Bernard Dennehy, 81, was found dead about 7:30 a.m. Thursday behind a tire shop in northwest Oklahoma City, The Oklahoman reported. An employee of the tire shop found Bernard Dennehy, who apparently had suffered head trauma.

Shortly after Bernard Dennehy's death, Brian Dennehy was sought for questioning, The Oklahoman reported.

Shaun Epperson 581-8369