Advertisement Troopers identify driver of truck that hit, killed Upstate firefighter Victim identified as Jordan Barry Howard, 30, of Marietta Share Copy Link Copy

The motorcyclist hit and killed by a truck that was involved in a chase was an Upstate firefighter, according to the Greenville County coroner's office.Coroner Parks Evans said Jordan Barry Howard, 30, of Marietta, was a firefighter for the North Greenville Fire Department and was on his way to work when the truck hit his motorcycle head-on. Thursday night, the South Carolina Highway Patrol identified the driver of the truck that killed Howard as John William Kennedy, 25, of Greer (mug shot from previous arrest on right). To see video from Sky 4, click here.The truck that hit Howard's motorcycle had been involved in a chase with deputies after the driver hit a deputy with a truck, according to Greenville County Sheriff Steve Loftis. Loftis said two deputies were called to TD's Express at 7 a.m. on Highway 253 to investigate a report of a stolen truck.The call was in response to an On Star alert indicating that a stolen truck was at that location.When deputies arrived at the convenience store, they saw the stolen truck parked back-to-back with another truck.Investigators said the stolen truck remained parked, but the driver of the second truck drove toward one of the deputies, backing the deputy up against a concrete wall.Loftis said the deputy fired shots hitting the vehicle. but the truck continued to drive toward the deputy, hitting him in the lower body. Loftis interview part 1 | Loftis interview part 2 The deputy was taken to the hospital with minor injuries, Loftis said. He said the deputy will return to work on Monday. Loftis said the truck fled the scene and deputies temporarily lost sight of it, but later caught up with the vehicle.To see pictures from the scene, click hereHe said a pursuit started and continued north on Highway 25. He said at one point, the suspect started driving north in the southbound lanes. To watch video from the scene, click here.Loftis said that was when the decision was made to end the chase. He said that about a quarter of a mile down the road, the vehicle drove directly into Howard's motorcycle. Howard died at the scene, Loftis said.Loftis said the suspect ran after the crash, but was arrested a short time later and taken to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.Investigators later said Ashley Tate Moore (left) was arrested in connection with the stolen truck that was at TD's Express. Loftis said SLED will investigate the shooting part of the incident and the South Carolina Highway Patrol will investigate the wreck. The crash and investigation partially shut down the northbound lanes of Highway 25. The lanes were reopened just before 4 p.m.Kennedy is charged with possession of a stolen vehicle greater than $1,000 at this time. he remains in Greenville Memorial Hospital for injuries he sustained in the crash.