Advertisement Chief: Man shoots himself during standoff, girlfriend also found dead in motel Man barricaded himself in room, admitted to killing Simpsonville man Share Copy Link Copy

The Anderson County coroner has identified a man who barricaded himself in a hotel room and shot a SWAT team member in the helmet Tuesday before turning the gun on himself. Kevin Duane Brewer, 37, of Honea Path, shot himself, Anderson County Coroner Greg Shore said. He said Jennifer Lynn Bensch, 32, the woman who was with Brewer, also shot herself. Shore said both were shot in the head. He said there was drug paraphernalia in the motel room. Simpsonville Police Chief Keith Grounsell said they believe Bensch was Brewer's girlfriend. Grounsell said Brewer was involved in a standoff at the Executive Inn in Powdersville Tuesday afternoon after being named a homicide suspect in Simpsonville. The standoff began after Anderson County deputies spotted Brewer's blue Dodge Nitro near the Executive Inn and confirmed he was staying there with a woman.The vehicle was being sought in connection with a homicide investigation on Aspenwood Drive in Simpsonville.The Anderson County SWAT team was called in after Brewer and Bensch refused to leave the hotel room.During hours of negotiations, Brewer admitted to SWAT team members that he killed Donnie Pitts Taylor, 76, in Simpsonville on Friday, Grounsell said. Taylor's body was not found until Monday, Shore said. Coroner Parks Evans said Taylor died from a single gunshot wound to the chest. Grounsell said Taylor was shot after an altercation that started out as verbal and then turned physical. Grounsell also said that during negotiations, Brewer shot through the door of the hotel room, striking one of the SWAT deputies in the helmet.The deputy was not injured. Just before 3:30 Tuesday afternoon, a WYFF News 4 crew at the scene reported hearing four loud bangs.Anderson County Sheriff John Skipper said officers fired tear gas into the room, but did not fire weapons.Skipper said after hours of negotiating with Brewer and Bensch, officers entered through a window and found them dead, barricaded between a bedroom and a bathroom.