Advertisement Family of man that led police on fatal chase speaks out Dash cam footage released Friday Share Copy Link Copy

Dash cam video of a chase followed by a deadly wreck in Greenville was released Friday, and the family of the man who led that chase is speaking.Click here to watch dash cam video.Click here to watch the report.Investigators said the crash happened at 9:41 a.m. Wednesday on White Horse Road at Old Grove Road. The collision involved a pickup truck and sedan.Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans said John Marquese Hampton, 29, died at the scene. Evans said he was driving a 2005 Mercury Marquis.Evans said the driver of a 2014 Chevrolet Silverado was taken to Greenville Memorial.Family members said the man who was driving the truck was in critical condition.Smith told WYFF News 4 that the crash happened after a pursuit involving a Highway Patrol trooper. He said the trooper was chasing a vehicle, but ended the pursuit at Bruce Road, about a quarter of a mile away from the crash. Smith said the car being pursued ended up in the collision. The Greenville County Sheriff's Office reconstruction team is investigating. A spokesperson for Hampton's family said they still have questions."The video is what it is, so we have no qualms with that, but the fact is what started the interaction between them? Why did the trooper feel the need to pull him over?" said Bruce Wilson.“They took my child and they are lying for some reason,” Hampton’s mother, Lashone Finley, said. “Somebody needs to tell me something. I am a mother that's not going to give up. I am not going to give up regardless of what ... I have an attorney and I am going to find out what's going on."The family says it met with troopers Friday morning and were told Hampton was being stopped for a seat belt violation."This whole seat belt thing is not going to fly. They can stop that. This was simply profiling at its worst and they got caught with it and a young man is dead," said Wilson.Hampton's family said he has three children.Release says there was a pursuit, but it ended before crashA release from the South Carolina Department of Public Safety outlined “the preliminary details of a traffic stop this morning in which a man fled from a trooper, resulting in a collision.” The Highway Patrol is part of the SCDPS.The release said, “The incident began when the trooper was conducting routine enforcement on U.S. 25, two tenths of a mile south of Interstate-85 in Greenville County. The trooper was in the parking lot near the intersection of Bruce Road and U.S. 25 when he observed a vehicle traveling north on U.S. 25 with the rear, side window busted out and a paper tag. “The trooper activated his blue lights to make a traffic stop because he suspected that the vehicle was stolen. The suspect pulled into the McDonald’s/Citgo parking lot. As the trooper opened the door to exit his vehicle, the suspect fled south on U.S. 25 in his vehicle.“The trooper closed the door of his patrol vehicle, got back onto U.S. 25 with his blue lights and siren activated, and made a second attempt to stop the vehicle. However, after evaluating and assessing the situation, the trooper determined that the risk associated with the traffic conditions and the reckless manner in which the suspect was driving was too great to continue. Therefore, the trooper terminated the brief pursuit, deactivating his blue lights and siren. The trooper continued a short distance on U.S. 25 and found the vehicle had struck another vehicle.“The collision investigation is being conducted by the Greenville County Sheriff’s Office. The suspect sustained fatal injuries as a result of the collision.”Owner of truck-witness shares his accountThe red truck belongs to James Cantrell. He told WYFF News 4 that his friend was helping him take the truck in for repairs. His friend was driving the truck and Cantrell was following in another vehicle.They had stopped at the red light on Old Grove Road before starting north on White Horse Road after the light turned green.“I pulled out, headed north on White Horse, and I heard a boom,” he said. “I looked in the rearview mirror and I saw my truck barrel-rolling in the air.”Cantrell said he turned around and pulled over.“I got out of my car, didn’t even get to the truck and here come(s) a Highway (Patrol) man flying down the road. He jumps out of his car, pulls his pistol and runs toward that Mercury that hit my (truck).”Cantrell said he has no doubt that the trooper was in pursuit of the Mercury.“It was flying. It was flying. I would guestimate it somewhere between 70, 80 mph,” he said. “Any judge with any sense that can put a (Highway Patrol trooper) on the scene of an accident with his pistol drawn running toward a vehicle, he can put two and two together.”“The pursuit was still in progress, no matter what they say,” he said. “He come in hot. The (Highway Patrol trooper) came in hot, jumped out of his car, drew his gun and ran toward the Mercury. Now, you tell me what’s going on.”Cantrell said his friend is sore and has three broken ribs.He said there were three or four troopers at the scene, but he was told the investigation was being turned over to the Sheriff’s Office.“I think they’re trying to bury something under the rug,” he said. “But I think a judge will pull it right on top of the ground.”Cantrell said he doesn’t know the circumstances, he can only say what he saw.“I witnessed Highway Patrol at the scene of an accident 10 seconds after it happened with his pistol drawn running at the car that hit my truck. That’s what I seen. I’m saying the judge will put it together.“They’re not supposed to draw their gun unless they’re in pursuit of somebody. He come in hot with his car, stopped, jumped out of his car, drew his pistol and pursued the car.“Something is wrong,” he said. “Somebody’s not telling the truth.”