CHOUTEAU -- A Chouteau police officer shot and killed an armed robbery suspect who had stabbed a Mayes County sheriff's deputy Monday, Sheriff Frank Cantey said.

Chouteau Assistant Police Chief Lynn Hershberger shot Tracy Lee Whitecotton once in the chest about 9 a.m., Cantey said.

Whitecotton, 44, who reportedly had stabbed Sheriff's Sgt. Chris Fogleman twice after attacking him with a knife, was pronounced dead at St. Francis Hospital in Tulsa, the sheriff said.

"If it were not for the bullet-proof vest, the deputy would have been very badly hurt, if not killed," said Jessica Brown, a spokeswoman for the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation, which is reviewing the shooting.

Officers who are involved in fatal shootings typically are placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the shooting investigation. Chouteau Police Chief Gary Shrum couldn't be reached immediately for comment.

The Mayes County District Attorney's Office will determine whether the shooting was justified.

Seven officers from the Sheriff's Office and Chouteau Police Department were called to the residence to search for a man who was wanted in connection with an armed robbery Thursday in Mayes County, authorities said.

A black Chevrolet pickup, reportedly stolen from Spavinaw that same day, was spotted at the residence, Brown said.

When officers entered the home, a woman answering the door initially said Whitecotton wasn't there, then pointed to a small bathroom where Whitecotton reportedly had barricaded himself, Cantey said.

Authorities reportedly ordered Whitecotton out, and when he didn't obey, they directed pepper spray underneath the door. When a deputy kicked in the door, Whitecotton pulled a knife and stabbed Fogleman in the shoulder before being wrestled to the floor, Cantey said.

Fogleman was stabbed again before Hershberger shot Whitecotton in the chest, Cantey said. Fogleman was treated at and released from the Mayes County Medical Center, the sheriff said.

The deputy, who was stabbed in the left arm and back of the left shoulder, required stitches to close as many as 20 cuts, Cantey said.

Whitecotton had many felony convictions in northeastern Oklahoma, including for indecent exposure and firearm possession in Tulsa County and marijuana possession in Rogers County, records show. He also had escape convictions from Muskogee and Pittsburg counties.

Rhett Morgan 581-8395