One of the bikers indicted in the deadly May 2015 shootout at Waco’s Twin Peaks restaurant died when the stolen motorcycle he was riding crashed into a van during a police chase in Gatesville.

Trey Alston Short, 29, of Temple was among the bikers indicted on Nov. 10, 2015, for engaging in organized criminal activity in the May 17, 2015 shootout between rival biker gangs and police that left nine dead and 20 injured.

A law enforcement source said Monday he was a member of the Cossacks motorcycle gang.

Short died Friday night as he tried to elude police in Gatesville while riding a Harley Davidson motorcycle that had been stolen out of Waco.

An officer spotted the motorcycle traveling at a high rate of speed late at around 9:45 p.m. Friday in the 1000 block of West Main Street and attempted to pull the rider over.

The rider, however, sped up and tried to elude the officer, authorities said Monday.

About a minute later the motorcycle struck the right rear fender of a Chevrolet minivan at the intersection of East Main Street on South Lovers Lane with such force that the van overturned, authorities said Monday.

Short was thrown from the bike and died at the scene.

The motorcycle came to rest in the 2500 block of East Main Street.

The driver of the minivan, a 34-year-old Gatesville man and a passenger, identified as a 13-year-old boy, were taken to Coryell Memorial Hospital with what police said were non-life-threatening injuries.

The license plate on the motorcycle was not the one originally issued for the stolen bike, authorities said.

Short is the second biker connected to the shootout to die in a motorcycle crash.

On Sept. 3, 2015, James “Spaz” Anderson, 53, of Henderson, was killed when his motorcycle struck some deer on a highway about three miles south of Chadron, Neb.

Authorities think Anderson, a member of the Bandidos motorcycle gang, was present when gunfire at the restaurant, but think he escaped without being identified.

A search warrant was later issued authorizing removal of a bullet from his upper arm.

Anderson, an Army veteran, was sergeant at arms for the Longview chapter of the Bandidos, his obituary said.

“He was very well known and highly respected,” the obituary said.