Up to 20 shots fired in fatal NYPD shooting in East New York, Brooklyn

EAST NEW YORK, Brooklyn (WABC) -- A man was shot and killed by plainclothes New York City police officers in Brooklyn after he allegedly turned on them twice and opened fire.

It happened just after 4 p.m. on Belmont Avenue between Milford Street and Logan Street in the East New York section.

One NYPD source tells Eyewitness News that as many as 20 shots were fired before the suspect was struck and killed at the end of an alley.

"I was walking down Belmont and I heard shots fired, and I believe as a result the police responded back," said Mitchell Pendleton, a neighbor. "I think they did what the community would want, somebody else could have gotten hurt, they didn't, and we appreciate that."

A .32 caliber revolver was recovered at the scene. Police released this photo of it:

The suspect has not yet been identified. The officers were not injured.

Police officials said the episode began when two officers and a sergeant, on patrol in the area, spotted a man on the street and asked to question him.

"The suspect drew a revolver and fired at the officers, the officers returned fired, and the subject fled on foot with officers in pursuit," said Chief Terence Monahan, NYPD Patrol Division. "One officer followed the suspect into the rear alley and confronted the suspect who was still armed. The officer fired at the suspect again, and this time the suspect was struck and was pronounced dead at the scene."

Detectives said the man took off and as officers chased him, he allegedly turned and fired. The officers returned fire and as they cornered the man at the end of an alley, sources said he fired at them again and he was shot.

It is not clear how many times he was struck, but the suspect was pronounced dead at the scene.

Neighbors praised the officers and said they were grateful that no one else was injured.

"I'd like to thank the police department for their quick response that no one else got hurt out here," Pendleton said.