Last week prosecutors announced that St. Joseph, Missouri police officer Justin Bever would not face criminal charges for firing his weapon eight times and killing 27-year-old Jason Fanning during a routine traffic stop. Jason was unarmed and did not threaten the officers. His mother stated: “He’d just left my house after working on his car. He’d discovered he’d accidentally taken my house keys and was going to come back. He never did.”

Instead, Jason was shot by Officer Bever eight times after Jason’s car began to slowly back up after officers exited their vehicle.

The facts of this shooting are not really in dispute, having been caught by dash cam footage. Officer Bever was patrolling St. Joseph in the early hours of Feb. 20 with a female reserve officer with the Buchanan County Sheriff’s Department, Brenda Fletchell, present for a ride-along. Ms. Fletchell’s ride-along was unapproved and violated department policies. It is unknown why she was present in Officer Bever’s car.

Officer Bever’s traffic stop of Jason Fanning occurred on Feb. 20 near 20th and Charles streets. Both Officer Bever and the ride-along officer, Ms. Fletchall, exited their vehicle after Jason was pulled over.

Ms. Fletchall violated police policies when she exited the vehicle.

When both officers were outside the patrol vehicle, Jason “began to roll backward at a low rate of speed.” In the dashcam footage, Ms. Fletchall is seen walking in front of the camera as Jason’s Ford Mustang drives backward. Ms. Fletchall then retreated as eight shots are fired into the driver’s side of the Mustang through the windshield.

The Fraternal Order of Police previously issued a statement that Jason’s vehicle accelerated backward at “a high rate of speed.” The Fraternal Order of Police also released a statement indicating Jason rammed his vehicle into a patrol car and almost struck the officer. Those stories are not borne out by the evidence. Instead, while the footage may indicate Fanning could have been trying to escape, he did not ram a patrol car or threaten anyone.

Initial media reports irrelevantly tarred Jason by stating: “Court records show Jason Fanning received a suspended sentence in November for third-degree domestic assault in Buchanan County. He was placed on supervised probation for the misdemeanor.”

Jason’s death engendered protests. Media Reports state that protestors “swarmed the Law Enforcement Center” demanding justice for Jason. Heather Nordin, Jason’s sister, said they were protesting because the officer who shot Jason had returned to work even though the investigation into the incident had not been completed. “He should not be at work today,” said Nordin. “He shouldn’t be at work at all.”

After the investigation was completed, Buchanan County Prosecutor Dwight Scroggins announced he would not file criminal charges against Officer Bever.

Astoundingly, the prosecutor did so even though he stated, “There is no evidence to indicate Mr. Fanning was attempting to injure the officer (Fletchall) or even that Mr. Fanning was aware of the second officer’s presence.”

The prosecutor issued a statement that “a law enforcement officer is allowed to use deadly force if that officer has a reasonable belief that the use of such force is necessary to protect another from serious physical injury or death.” But, the prosecutor did not provide a rationale to support the conclusion Officer Bever reasonably believed that the use of deadly force was necessary.

In light of the lack of criminal action, Jason’s family have filed a civil suit. There is no prospect for DOJ action in this case.

Does anyone care? Or are we all burned out on the topic of police killings of drivers pulled over on traffic stops?

My 2 cents: We need broad coalitions and community action to prevent further police killings.

P.S. Please no “Bever Believer” jokes.