A man stabbed his mother to death in her home near Hudson, Wis., set fire to his apartment nearby and shot at police while fleeing into Minnesota where he killed himself Sunday in his wrecked car.

Killed in the violent outburst were Charlene Wold, 49, who operated Spots Professional Pet Grooming in Lakeland, Minn., and her 28-year-old son, Logan T. Reese, the St. Croix County Sheriff's Office said Sunday.

In a statement, the Sheriff's Office described the confrontation as a "violent domestic dispute" but offered no explanation.

"This is a very complex case, [and] we should have more details on the incident in the next couple of days," said Sheriff's Capt. Jeff Klatt. "Our hearts go out to the family in this case."

According to the Sheriff's Office:

The incident began shortly after 11:30 p.m. Saturday in Hudson Township. Deputies were alerted that Reese had stabbed Wold and beaten another family member with a stick at Wold's home in the 700 block of N. Meadow Drive.

Other family members sought shelter in the garage. Reese fled the home in a car. Wold was declared dead at the scene.

About 12:45 a.m. Sunday, deputies were heading to Reese's residence 30 or so miles to the east in Glenwood City when a caller to 911 said the suspect's apartment was on fire.

Reese's car was spotted about 1:15 a.m. about 13 miles southwest of the apartment on Hwy. 12 in Woodville, where a police officer started trailing him without his emergency lights activated. Reese shot at the squad car.

Several other law enforcement agencies joined in the chase, which stretched for roughly 50 miles and crossed the state line about 1½ miles into Chisago County.

Again, Reese shot at his pursuers before he struck a median barrier on Hwy. 8. Even after the crash, Reese kept shooting.

Shortly after 2 a.m., officers looked in the car and saw Reese dead from "what appeared to be a self-inflicted wound to the head."

Reese's criminal history in Wisconsin includes convictions for drunken driving and illegally carrying a concealed weapon.