Orangeburg County Deputy William Howell Jr., a 16-year veteran officer recently tapped for promotion, was gunned down early Saturday morning when he responded to a domestic violence call on Boyer Road in the Holly Hill area.

The death is the first killing of an Orangeburg County deputy sheriff in the line of duty.

The alleged gunman, who was struck by an automobile and killed shortly after the incident, was identified as 20-year-old Derrick Buras. Buras — who according to an incident report from a separate shooting and assault 10 months ago was “known to pull out firearms and start shooting” — was free on bond in that case.

“I’ve never lost an officer on my watch,” said Sheriff Larry Williams during a Saturday afternoon press conference in front of the Orangeburg-Calhoun Regional Detention Center. “I’ve been in this facility 31 years and in this office eight years … This is the first in the line of duty in over 30 years … One died in an automobile accident. To be gunned down, as this officer was, he’s the first gunned down while performing his duties.”

Subdued and at times emotional, Williams recounted the tragic events that led to the death of Howell, a three-year Orangeburg County deputy he recently promoted to field services corporal. Howell previously served with the Dorchester County Sheriff’s Office.

According to the sheriff, Howell responded at 1:30 a.m. to a domestic call concerning an “alleged battered wife or spouse. While there on that call, he encountered Derrick Buras.

”As the deputy was preparing to assist the young lady in getting personal items from the home … Deputy Howell was gunned down with an unknown caliber long gun. That’s the best I can describe it. It was a single gunshot wound to his upper body and upper neck. He had expired at the scene.”

Then, Williams said, “in the course of the response, the suspect is believed to have been struck by a vehicle driven by the spouse or girlfriend of the suspect and (was) located some distance from the home. Abrasions about the body were consistent with him being struck by the vehicle. The victim attempted to leave the scene.”

The 46-year-old officer followed procedures and guidelines, Williams said.

“First and foremost, we were there to protect this young lady, even in the wake of danger,” he said. “The suspect went to the door. As my officer stood on the ground (near) his car, he shot the officer.”

The State Law Enforcement Division is investigating the entire incident, which spanned 3-1/2 hours. Williams said the woman — Tiffany Buras, who Buras’ family members identified as his wife — is being interviewed by SLED.

A SLED spokeswoman said the agency’s investigation is under way. No charges have been filed against TIffany Buras.

The shooting scene is on an isolated stretch of dirt road near Holly Hill, in a pocket of homes nestled under big trees and a few mobile homes. Next door to the site of the shooting lives Carl Bunch, who says Buras was like a son to him.

Bunch said, “I hate it for (Howell’s) family, I hate it for his children and I give them all the sympathy I can give them,” a sentiment he repeated several times.

Pulling a picture of Buras from his pocket, he said, “I would give my life for him if I could bring him back. … He was a cool dude. He would help anybody in the neighborhood. But if you made him mad, he had a whole different attitude.”

He said the problems didn’t begin that night. Officers were called to the house every other weekend to handle domestic disputes. Usually, Buras would hide in the woods.

But this time was different. Buras’ wife of seven months said she was going to leave him.

When Howell arrived, “He trusted my son. He said, ‘I’ve got a bench warrant on you,’ and when he came to the door, he blew him away.”

After the shooting, Buras’ wife sped away, hitting Buras and dragging his body to a ditch on the other side of the road, Bunch said.

Pointing to the spot, he said, “They pulled my baby boy from the ditch right there.” He still wonders why, despite an extensive manhunt that reportedly included a SLED helicopter with heat-seeking capabilities, it took hours to discover Buras’ body within 100 yards of the home.

Buras’ sister Brandy said her brother “was a decent person. … He was a good brother.”

Daisy Stevens, a neighbor of Buras, said, “This is the first time I witnessed anything like this.”

She said Buras was “very mannerly. Yes, ma’am. No, ma’am. … When he passed you, he was very polite.”

Williams noted the previous calls to the residence. And, the sheriff said, “the suspect was out on bond from the previous charge, assault and battery with intent to kill.”

In July 2007, Buras was initially denied bond on four counts of assault after an altercation placed a man on life support for two days. In requesting that no bond be granted, the sheriff’s office noted the “seriousness of the crime” and the fact that “the long gun has not been recovered … He’s not been cooperative.”

Buras, then 20, of 416 Acola Lane, was charged with one count of assault and battery with intent to kill, two counts of assault with intent to kill and one count of assault and battery of a high and aggravated nature. Wesley Hughes, then 18, of Holly Hill was seriously injured when Buras allegedly hit him with the butt of a firearm.

According to the incident report, a witness said several people had been at the Home Branch Road location when a man and woman drove up. The man exited the car and greeted the others present. He was then asked not to do any shooting because a small child was present.

“She stated that they told him this because he is known to pull out firearms and start shooting,” the incident report indicates.

A few minutes later, the group heard gunshots being fired. When one man from the group approached the subject to find out what was going on, a fight broke out between the two, the report said.

The subject then retrieved a shotgun or rifle from his trunk and pointed the weapon at the group, witnesses said. At that point, “everyone began trying to leave.”

The subject allegedly struck Hughes with the butt of the firearm, causing a severe laceration to the head, according to the report. Witnesses said the gunman then bashed out a window of the Dodge truck and struck a man in the leg.

The single charge of assault and battery with intent to kill by itself carries a maximum sentence of up to 20 years in prison. Buras had initially been denied bond.

Watch for continuing developments on the story at www.TheTandD.com