Skip to comments.

Rampage on front-loader ends with 2 dead

GoUpstate.com ^ | November 30, 2008 | Craig Peters

Posted on by Between the Lines

GAFFNEY SC - Miniature Christmas trees flanked the front door of the white two-story farmhouse on a rainy Saturday afternoon in Cherokee County. Cars sat in the driveway and off to the side of the house on Pleasant School Road.

But the house wasn't the scene of a holiday party. Instead, it was the place where family and friends gathered to mourn the death of James Ellie Brogden.

Brogden was one of two Gaffney men killed hours earlier after a chase involving a piece of machinery weighing about 10 tons that was stolen from Cherokee Speedway.

Brogden died after Aaron Christopher Saunders used a Case 821 front-end loader with a forklift appendage to hoist a 2005 Toyota and drop the vehicle on Brogden, according to Cherokee County Coroner Dennis Fowler.

Cherokee County sheriff's deputies said they fired "several rounds" into the cab after Saunders turned the machinery toward them.

Fowler said in a news release that Brogden, 67, of 124 Farm Wind Road died at the scene. Saunders, 28, of 1252 Ellis Ferry Road died at 6:51 a.m. while in surgery at Spartanburg Regional Medical Center. Saunders had been airlifted to the hospital by the Regional One helicopter.

Fowler has ordered autopsies to assist his investigation.

State Law Enforcement Division spokeswoman Jennifer Timmons said SLED received a call from Cherokee County authorities to investigate the incident about 4 a.m. Saturday.

It is customary for law enforcement agencies to request SLED investigations of shootings involving officers.

Timmons estimated the investigation could take several days or weeks before the report is complete.

Gaffney resident Dick Norris was shocked when the phone rang early Saturday. Norris, 71, said he's known Brogden, whom he referred to as Cecil, for "more than half a century."

Norris, a lieutenant colonel with the Salvation Army, supervised Brogden's work as an officer with the Salvation Army. He said Brogden had a 44-year career that took him and his wife, Elma Grey Brogden, to Tennessee, Florida and Texas. After Brogden retired, he helped out at a center in Charlotte, N.C.

Norris said Brogden devoted

his "blazing calling" to helping those with substance-abuse problems at adult rehabilitation facilities.

"He loved those he worked with like his own children," Norris said. "He was magnificent in his approach."

Norris said when Brogden retired, the couple moved to Gaffney to be close to family. The Brogdens were house-sitting at the Pleasant School Road home owned by their son-in-law, Todd Morgan, a physician, and daughter, Pam Morgan, who went to the coast for the weekend.

Fowler said Brogden heard the commotion and walked outside to the end of the home's driveway, where Saunders steered the loader toward him.

The incident began about 2:30 a.m., Fowler said, when Saunders took the loader from 153 Speedway Road.

A deputy spotted the loader while patrolling Lemuel's Road about two miles from the speedway and attempted to stop it.

Fowler said Saunders refused to stop and the pursuit continued onto Concord Road and Pleasant School Road, where Saunders drove into a yard, toppled trees, rammed

two patrol cars and attempted to strike a deputy who was out of his car.

Dean Christopher, who lives at the corner of Pleasant School and Concord roads, said he had just finished watching a movie at 3 a.m. when he heard the rumbling and went to observe the situation.

"It was like a parade, they were going so slow," Christopher said. "There was a deputy at the edge of the fence with his gun out, and I saw the front-end loader. The deputy hollered, 'Get back in the house.' "

Christopher said the loader and deputies then went north on Pleasant School Road and out of his line of sight.

"It's really surreal," Christopher said.

"You see stuff like that happening in California on television. You don't think about that happening around here," he said.

Saturday's rampage wasn't the first traffic-related disturbance caused by Saunders this year.

The Gaffney Ledger reported in March that Saunders was charged with driving under suspension, malicious damage to property, possession of a suspended driver's license, driving under the influence, leaving the scene of an accident, breaking arrest and simple possession of marijuana.

Saunders was accused of using a 1986 Honda with a dealer tag to intentionally strike six vehicles scattered over several locations and then fleeing on foot. The Ledger reported that Saunders was taken into custody at a Concord Road residence, and officers needed to deploy a Taser three times to control him.



TOPICS:

News/Current Events

US: South Carolina

KEYWORDS:





To: Between the Lines; EggsAckley; freebilly; hedgetrimmer; nickcarraway; Tijeras_Slim; ...

"You see stuff like that happening in California on television. You don't think about that happening around here," Hey now. HEY NOW.



To: Between the Lines

this Saunders turd needed killing a long time ago. A shame that he killed before being killed.



by 3 posted onby Vaquero ( "an armed society is a polite society" Robert A. Heinlein)

To: martin_fierro

Truth hurts?



by 4 posted onby null and void (Hey 0bama? There will be a pop quiz every day for the next four years...miss a question, people die.)

To: martin_fierro

Hmmmm..........



To: Between the Lines

sounds like this guy had a history of mental illness and using vehicles as weapons i wonder if there is a term for that



by 6 posted onby wardaddy (Monarchists for Palin 2012)

Comment #7 Removed by Moderator

To: Between the Lines

In other news, incoming President-elect Barack Obama announced that one of his administration’s first priorities would be to work with Congress for meaningful front-loader control legislation.



To: Between the Lines

We drove right past the speedway Sunday afternoon. They're having a heavy equipment auction, and the place was full of various front end loaders, backhoes, etc. etc. No sign that anything unusual was going on.



by 9 posted onby AnAmericanMother (Ministrix of ye Chasse (TTGC Ladies' Auxiliary - recess appointment))

To: Between the Lines

random thoughts: -If some of the folks on this road were armed, maybe they could have stopped Saunders?

-How much taxpayer money was wasted airlifting the suspect to a hospital and operating?





Comment #11 Removed by Moderator

To: Morgana





To: Morgana

Please forgive me, I am having trouble visualizing this. Sanders is in a "front end Loader", more than likely he is on something, and not just the front end loader, he "hoist a 2005 Toyota and drops the vehicle on Brogden"? From the article: "Saunders used a Case 821 front-end loader with a forklift appendage"



To: Morgana

The loader apparently had a forklift deal (eg; pair of forklift tines) on its front end, instead of the bucket shown in the pix. I’m wondering, other than job security, what was the need for autopsies in this case: 1: Toyota dropped on victim #1; 2: Shots fired into victim #2. ??



To: Morgana

I forget the movie, but, the line was “yeah, but are you CONFIDENTLY heterosexual?” “confidently?” “yeah, confidently”



To: Morgana

is the exact model of front end loader.

What you posted was a backhoe with a small front loader. THISis the exact model of front end loader.

To: Between the Lines

The author’s time line really jumps around, making this somewhat hard to follow.



To: Between the Lines





To: wardaddy

sounds like this guy had a history of mental illness and using vehicles as weapons i wonder if there is a term for that It's too bad he took out an innocent life. What a jerk. On the other hand, that guy who armored a bulldozer and took out businesses who screwed him over several years ago was my hero.



To: martin_fierro

Reminds me of the time someone stole a front loader in the middle of the night and tried to make the getaway with the bucket down. What a racket! Beat up the road pretty badly too! The crook didn’t get far. Suffice it to say, alcohol was involved!



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson