A carjacker killed his girlfriend and then fatally shot himself after being pursued from north Tulsa to 30th Place and Utica Avenue on Tuesday afternoon, police said.

Both had been listed on Monday as being Most Wanted fugitives in Colorado, the Colorado Springs Gazette reported.

Rhiannon Vantassell, 32, was shot in the head by Roy Hanthorn, 36, as he led police on a chase down South Utica Avenue, Sgt. Dave Walker said. Both were wanted in Colorado Springs, Walker said.

Officers witnessed Hanthorn shoot Vantassell in the head, killing her, in the 2700 block of South Utica Avenue, Walker said. Hanthorn then continued driving south to 30th Place, where he shot himself in the head, Walker said.

Sgt. Thom Bell said the vehicle Hanthorn was driving crashed into another vehicle after he shot himself. Bell said the crash was at slow speed and that the driver of the other vehicle did not require hospital treatment.

Hanthorn was taken by ambulance to St. John Medical Center, where he died just after 8 p.m., Walker said.

The events started after Tulsa police were notified that Hanthorn was in the Tulsa area, was possibly driving a stolen vehicle and could be armed with a handgun. Members of the Northern Oklahoma Violent Crimes Task Force joined Tulsa police officers and attempted to stop Hanthorn when his vehicle, a gray Hyundai with Colorado license plates, was spotted near Apache Street and Lewis Avenue, police reported.

Hanthorn abandoned that vehicle near First Street and Elgin Avenue, police said. When officers next spotted Hanthorn, he and Vantassell were in a white Honda they had taken from a woman by force and were fleeing east on the Broken Arrow Expressway, Walker said.

It was the first time police had seen Vantassell, and they didn't know at the time whether she was a victim or a participant in the carjacking.

The woman who was carjacked was not injured, police said.

Vantassell's death is Tulsa's 11th homicide of 2014. Hanthorn's death is being handled as a suicide, Walker said.

The Colorado Springs Gazette reported Monday that Vantassell and Hanthorn were recently listed by authorities there as being on the Pikes Peak Region's Most Wanted list.

Vantassell was listed as being wanted on a second-degree burglary charge.

Hanthorn was listed as being wanted on charges of theft, aggravated vehicle theft and possession of a schedule II controlled substance.

Dylan Goforth 918-581-8451

Samantha Vicent 918-581-8321