Advertisement Medical examiner releases cause, manner of death for Oklahoma City woman taken captive Autopsy report has not been released Share Copy Link Copy

The state medical examiner has released the cause of death for a woman held captive and then killed on an Oklahoma City street Oct. 8.Police: No running water, OKC home full of cockroaches; Mom arrestedSamantha Rae Monden, 30, was killed by a contact range, perforating gunshot wound to head, the ME said. She was also shot in the right forearm, according to the ME.15 things you might not know about Oklahoma.The autopsy has not been released, but the medical examiner said her death has been ruled a homicide.Police said Monden called 911 saying she was being held captive and people were trying to kill her. Responding officers said they were immediately met by gunfire when they made contact with the suspects in a hotel room.According to police, Sgt. Cody Koelsch was shot in the arm and torso. His vest panel stopped the bullet. Sgt. Grant Brooks was shot in the arm and an artery was pierced.Koelsch and Brooks were both treated at a local hospital and released.Sgt. Clint Music fired back at the suspects, according to police. All three of those officers are part of the Santa Fe Division of the Oklahoma City Police Department.Police said Shane Leon Rhea, 39, left the room holding Monden hostage. The pair entered northbound lanes of Interstate 35 and police said Rhea attempted to carjack a vehicle. Additional officers confronted Rhea and the pair moved onto the I-35 service road.Police said Rhea pointed a gun toward Monden's head and shot her. She died at the scene. Police said an Oklahoma City officer then shot Rhea with a rifle.Police arrested three people at the Plaza Inn. Police also said Randell Leon Williams, 57, was shot in the back while in the Plaza Inn hotel room. Police said they found drugs on Williams, but charges are still pending.Police arrested Rhea on suspicion of first-degree murder, kidnapping, shooting with intent to kill, assault and battery with a deadly weapon and pointing a firearm on Interstate 35. He was shot and injured in the incident Rhea has a long criminal history with theft charges and a domestic violence charge. He was released from an Oklahoma prison in June.Police also arrested Bonnie Boen, 30, on a misdemeanor warrant out of Seminole County. Erik Patterson, 29, was also arrested on a city warrant for failure to appear on a seatbelt violation.Crime footer