This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

UPDATE: Officials have identified the man involved in the standoff over the weekend as 26-year-old Michael Scott Pena.

Officers said they had a warrant for assault and battery with a deadly weapon, possession of a firearm after a felony and possession of a firearm in the act of committing a felony.

OKLAHOMA CITY – Several families had to be evacuated after a man locked himself in a house with several assault weapons.

“I answer the door. Police are frantic, telling us that there’s someone barricaded in the house behind us.” Kyle Fitch said. “And the house is surrounded so we needed to get out because they had high-powered rifles.”

Officers received a call for help around 1:00 p.m. Friday afternoon. When they arrived at the 18000 block of Montoro Way, they found a man beating his wife in their front yard with a high-powered rifle.

Police say the fight started when she tried to take away his weapons.

“That gentleman ran back into the house and took cover as the officers rescued the wife by pulling her to safety.” Captain Dexter Nelson said.

The tactical team and bomb squad were called in while negotiators tried to talk the man into surrendering.

Police say he had fired a round off inside his home earlier, and also had several long-range weapons.

“Really what was going through my head was just to protect my family.” Fitch said. “I’ve got a 3-year-old who turns 4 tomorrow so he’s number one on my list.”

The standoff lasted more than 5 hours. With no progress being made, the tactical team stormed the house. Unfortunately, the man killed himself before officers could reach him.

“During the process of the execution, which was a slow and methodical execution, we don’t want to rush into these situations, the suspect avoided contact with us, he avoided talking to us, he wouldn’t negotiate with us.” Captain Nelson said. “And eventually ultimately took his own life.”

Authorities are not releasing the man’s name right now out of respect for the family, but say he was suicidal.

His wife is in the hospital recovering. Police say they may know more about what triggered the violence after they talk to her.