MANORVILLE, N.Y. (CBSNewYork) — Suffolk County Police say an officer fatally shot a man after a struggle in Manorville Thursday night.

It happened at around 10:45 p.m. on Bauer Avenue near Frontier Trail.

As CBS2's Jennifer McLogan reports, there are many unanswered questions after the shooting.

The Manorville community calls itself the gateway to the Hamptons, and resident Dawn Stewart refers to it as "Mayberry."

"I was laying in bed last night. Everybody was sleeping. I have two kids in the house, talking on the phone, and just heard boom! Boom! You know? And I went like this, I was shocked," Stewart said.

A retired couple called 911 Thursday night complaining that a suspicious person was lying in the back seat of a maroon sedan. Friday afternoon, Suffolk County Police identified the man as 44-year-old Jesse Bonsignore.

An officer engaged Bonsignore, who had a knife, according to police. A struggle ensued, the officer fired his gun, striking Bonsignore, who was declared dead at the scene.

The officer's union said there was struggle over the officer's firearm.

The shooting happened adjacent to a wooded area of Bauer Avenue. Prior to the incident, residents said they noticed the car and the driver.

"Something was off about him, because he kind of looked spacey," said Michelle Davis.

"He was hard to understand and... I heard him say something like, 'You want a ride? You want a ride?' And I was like, 'Nope, just walking my dogs. I'm good,'" said Shannon Roth.

"And then he wound up taking off, maybe a minute later, taking off like 60 mph down the road. Like gone," said Rob Siriani.

"If the police had to get involved, there must've been something that was like major happening," said Sana Derenzo.

"It's kind of scary, when you think about it, in your own neighborhood. Hopefully the police officer is alright," said John Dibartolo.

We're told the officer who fired his weapon was shaken up and taken to the hospital.

Police said Bonsignore had been transferred to the hospital in the past for for mental evaluations and was currently living in his car.

Bauer Avenue was reopened late Friday morning. Those who live near the crime scene said officers confiscated video from doorbell cameras and interviewed homeowners.

Suffolk County detectives and investigators with the state attorney general's office are investigating.

Under state law, fatal police involved shootings are investigated by the attorney general's office.

There is no body camera footage.

Anyone with information is asked to call police at (631) 852-6392 or anonymously to Crime Stoppers at (800) 220-TIPS.