Pictured: Man who shot dead mother of his baby, her parents, her two young nephews and himself over custody dispute as chilling 911 call and Facebook posts are revealed



Bryan Eugene Sweatt, 27, allegedly bound his victims with duct tape before shooting them dead in their Greenwood County, South Carolina, home

The victims included the mother of Sweatt's baby daughter, Chandra Fields, 26 and her parents, Richard and Melissa Fields

Chandra's nephews, Tariq Kenyon Robinson, 11, and William Asa Robinson, 9, were also shot dead in the Tuesday massacre



Authorities said the couple had an ongoing child custody dispute, and police had been called to the house before for a domestic argument

In a 911 call before the killings, Sweatt says he's stressed out and 'about to take my own life'

A South Carolina man who police say shot dead his estranged girlfriend and four members of her family, including two children, before turning the gun on himself on Tuesday has been pictured, as the chilling 911 call he made before the alleged murders is released.

An armed Bryan Eugene Sweatt, 27, sat waiting for his victims, who ranged in age from 9 to 51 years, as they returned to their home in Greenwood County, South Carolina, according to Sheriff Tony Davis. When they arrived he allegedly bound them with duct tape before taking their lives.

'I've never had anything of this magnitude,' said Davis, a veteran law enforcement officer. 'What you see in a horrific scene like this can never leave you.'

Scroll down for 911 recording



Girlfriend: Bryan Eugene Sweatt, 27, pictured left, allegedly shot dead the mother of his baby daughter, Chandra Marie Fields, 26, right

Waiting: Sweatt, pictured right with his estranged girlfriend and daughter, Ava, sat waiting for his victims, who ranged in age from 9 to 51 years, as they returned to their home in Greenwood County, South Carolina, according to Sheriff Tony Davis

The victims included the mother of Sweatt's baby daughter, Chandra Marie Fields, 26; her parents, Richard Allen Fields, 51, and Melissa Kay Fields, 49; and two of her nephews, Tariq Kenyon Robinson, 11, and William Asa Robinson, 9, according to an incident report.

Davis said the couple had an ongoing child custody dispute, and police had been called to the house before for a domestic argument.



A series of disturbing Facebook posts in the days leading up to the killings suggested Sweatt was furious with Chandra for stopping him from seeing their 7-month-old daughter Ava.

Ava was among four children who were spared when someone told them to get out of house, Davis said.



Chilling call: In the 911 call Sweatt, pictured, made on the evening of the massacre he sounds eerily calm, though he says 'I'm just stressed out and I'm about to take my life'

Disturbing: A series of disturbing Facebook posts in the days leading up to the killings suggested Sweatt, right, was furious with Chandra, left, for stopping him from seeing their 7-month-old daughter Ava

The children ran to a neighbor's house and one child reported hearing a gunshot and seeing blood splattered on the porch.

Police were called Tuesday evening to the residence on a rural highway in northwest South Carolina by a man who said he was armed and thinking about harming himself.

A SWAT team and hostage negotiator who reported to the scene failed to make contact with anyone inside, police said. When officers entered the house about an hour-and-a-half later, they found the six bodies in various rooms, Davis said.

In the 911 call Sweatt made on the evening of the massacre he sounds eerily calm, though he says 'I'm just stressed out and I'm about to take my life.'

When the dispatcher asks if he has a weapon, Sweatt says 'Yes' and explains its a .44.

wistv.com - Columbia, South Carolina |



Facebook: A series of disturbing Facebook posts in the days leading up to the killings suggested Sweatt was furious with Chandra for stopping him from seeing their 7-month-old daughter Ava

Custody dispute: Sweatt's daughter Ava, who he refers to in this Facebook post, was among four children who were spared when someone told them to get out of house, Sheriff Tony Davis said

At that point in the recording, he can be heard telling someone to 'get in there' and the person responds 'don't point that at me.'

The operator asks what is going on but Sweatt hangs up.

Dispatchers received a second 911 call about two minutes later from a neighbors house.

According to the heavy.com, the woman making the second call reported that the four children who were turned away from the house by Sweatt said he had tied his victims with duct tape.



The children said they had heard one shot and witnessed blood on the doorway.

Scene: Law enforcement officials stand near a home on Callison Highway where six people were found dead, Tuesday evening, October 29, 2013, in Greenwood

weapon: A sheriff's department deputy holds what appears to be the murder weapon - a hunting rifle - on Tuesday

Sweatt had a prior criminal record but was never arrested because of violence, sheriff's Sergeant John Long said.

However, the heavy.com reported that Sweatt had a long history of offenses including a charge of assault and battery of a high and aggravated nature' in 2005.

The website says he was due in court on the day of the killings and was facing up to 30 years in jail, for a recent burglary charge. He was out on bond.

Despite the atrocities, friends and family are still honoring Sweatt's memory on Facebook, calling him a great guy.





