UPDATED at 6 p.m. Wednesday with name of the man killed.

ST. LOUIS • A tactical unit officer fatally shot a man who fired at officers who were serving a search warrant at a home Tuesday night, St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson said.

The shooting happened about 8:40 p.m. Tuesday in the 4000 block of California Avenue near Osage Street in the Dutchtown neighborhood. No officers were hurt.

Police on Wednesday evening identified the man killed as Don Clark, 63. Police said his address is also the 4000 block of California Avenue, although they didn't specify that he was a resident of the house that was raided.

Dotson said that when officers knocked on the door of a home, announced themselves and got no response, they used a battering ram on the door. That was met with a shot from inside. Dotson said the officers then threw a diversionary device called a “flash bang” through the door and another shot was fired from inside.

One of the tactical officers returned fire, Dotson said. The officer’s gunfire hit Clark, who was inside. He was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. No one else was in the house at the time of the shooting, Dotson said.

Dotson said Clark had been named in relation to the search warrant. Police were executing search warrants at three homes in the 4000 block of California after a six-month investigation into drugs and guns, police say. Police say they recovered drugs, two firearms and ammunition in their searches. The man they shot was inside the third house.

Neighbors said Clark was well-known on the block and lived alone. Some of them expressed surprise that he had been the target of a search warrant for drugs.

Lekeysha Tate said he had lived on the block for about 17 years. “He didn’t bother anybody,” Tate said.

She said Clark spent much of his days working on cars and in the evenings could often be seen on his porch having a beer.

Melissa Ford said she had known him for about four years and he had done work on her car.

“Everybody called him Pop,” Ford said. She also said that the man’s son lived next door to him.

The neighbors said they were aware of drug-related issues on the block.

“This neighborhood is so bad, damn near everybody’s got a gun,” Ford said.

But neighbors said they had never seen Clark in possession of a gun.

Dotson said a gun believed to have been the one used to fire at officers was recovered, along with at least one shell casing.

The officer who opened fire is 40 years old and has been on the force for about 12 years, Dotson said.

“It shows the dangers that officers face going out doing their jobs,” the chief said of the incident.

Dotson said the search warrant that police were executing was the third of three being served Tuesday night on the same block for drugs and guns. He said the block had been the focus of an investigation that stretched back months.

He said the search warrants and been approved by a judge earlier in the day and that heroin and marijuana were the drugs mentioned in the warrants.

Dotson said seven other people who were taken into custody after the first two search warrants were served were being interviewed Tuesday night.

Joann Drope, who lives near the shooting scene with her husband, William Drope, said she heard two loud booms that “scared the crap out of me” and then saw police at the door of the man’s home.

The Dropes said they next heard gunshots.

The same block of California Avenue has been in the news at least twice before in the last seven months. In October, a woman was fatally stabbed there. Two months earlier, an unoccupied police car was set fire there.