Adam Lawson alawson@gastongazette.com

The end of Tuesday's Gaston County Police standoff wasn't the most common conclusion, though it was the second time in barely a week investigators left the scene with a less-than-desirable result.

On Wednesday, police identified Richard Grant Smeltzer as the suspect involved in an incident the day before. The 49-year-old shot himself as police entered his residence on the 3300 block of Scott Drive. He died later that evening at CaroMont Regional Medical Center.

Police were at Scott Drive to serve the man with warrants related to alleged sex offenses, including one that involved physical contact, according to Capt. Curtis Rosselle. A robot led police into the house hours after the standoff started. A gunshot followed, then another.

Police never fired their guns throughout the encounter, Rosselle said.

"It's obvious by the effort we put forward, the six hours we put forward in trying to get him to come out that we want to have him come out and come forward," he said. "This isn't the ending we wanted. This isn't the ending the family wanted. But ultimately it was his choice."

Julie Chenault was two hours away at her South Carolina home when her phone rang after 8 a.m. Tuesday. On the other end was her father.

She said her father didn't sound nervous.

"He sounded calm. He didn't want me to worry," Chenault said. "He just wanted me to know that he loved me."

Chenault said she's still looking for answers and that police haven't gone into details with her about the allegations her dad was facing. But she said she doesn't believe he'd ever commit a sex crime.

Smeltzer had been in and out of prison throughout Chenault's life. Nearly all his convictions were drug related, and he was last released from state custody in July 2014.

Chenault can't be sure why things ended the way they did, but she believes her father was determined not to return to prison.

"He wasn't going back," she said. "He did so good these last two years that he's been out. He's been doing great as a father, as a man. He wasn't going to go back."

The standoff played out similarly to an incident seven days earlier, when Gaston County Police attempted to arrest a man on Riverside Drive near Mountain Island Lake on sex charges. In that incident, the man in his 50s shot himself before police could get inside, Rosselle said.

Rosselle did not immediately know the identity of the suspect in the other case.

The two incidents are the only Gaston County standoff suicides thus far in 2017.

"It's impossible for me to put myself in their shoes," Rosselle said. "I gotta believe it's a very big stress in their life at the time. We don't know how we'll act in real heavy stress. But you can think all you want and wonder."

Smeltzer did not appear to have a history of violent crime. But police received a tip leading them to believe that Smeltzer threatened to hurt law enforcement if they came to arrest him and that those threats included "tripwires, grenades, all kinds of things," Rosselle said.

That meant added security and the presence of the agency's Emergency Response Team, which got to the neighborhood around two hours before the standoff began to case out the scene. Two hours later police approached the door, at which point police say Smeltzer carried a pistol held at his side.

The man didn't aim it at any officers, Rosselle said. Law enforcement retreated and a standoff began.

They entered the home after hours of negotiations, coupled with tear gas, flash bangs and a broken window, didn't lure the suspect outside, Rosselle said. As is standard procedure, Rosselle said, family didn't participate in the negotiation process.

Scott Drive is located off of Patrick and Union roads, southwest of Gastonia. The neighborhood's perimeter was blocked off at Gatewood Drive throughout much of the incident.

No police officer was injured in the standoff.

You can reach Adam Lawson at 704-869-1842 or Twitter.com/GazetteLawson.