Correction

A subheadline in the print version of this story in Friday's Tulsa World misidentified the county where a deputy fatally shot a murder suspect in Fairfax. He is an Osage County deputy.

FAIRFAX — Just two weeks after she filed a protective order alleging her husband was “always threatening” to kill her, Teresa Robertson was allegedly shot dead by the man, who then turned his weapon on law enforcement and was killed after an officer shot him.

Kenneth Robertson, 54, allegedly shot and killed his estranged wife, Osage County Sheriff Eddie Virden said. Teresa Robertson, 52, was slain early Thursday morning.

“It appears to be domestic violence in nature,” Virden said.

According to a news release from the Osage County Sheriff’s Office, Kenneth Robertson got a ride to downtown Fairfax, where he went into Teresa Robertson’s flower shop and shot her. After running from the building, she collapsed onto the street, the release states.

Kenneth Robertson then went to City Hall, where he told employees to contact David Bradley, acting Fairfax police chief and an Osage County Sheriff’s deputy, the release states. After Bradley discovered Teresa Robertson’s body on the ground outside, the release states, Kenneth Robertson exited City Hall screaming and fired two rounds at Bradley.

When Kenneth Robertson raised a long rifle in the direction of a second responding officer, Bradley shot him one time, hitting Robertson in the chest, Virden said.

Emergency responders transported him to a local hospital where he died about three hours later, Virden said.

Teresa Robertson, 11 days after filing a protective order against Kenneth Roberston indicating the two had separated, had filed a petition for divorce for incompatibility, according to Osage County District Court records.

She petitioned the judge to restrict all visitation rights to their two children, a 16-year-old and a 13-year-old.

“Kenny’s always threatening to kill me,” Teresa Robertson wrote in the protective order petition.

She stated in the petition that Kenneth Robertson had threatened to drown her “and make it look like (an) accident.” She stated that he cursed at the children and had previously threatened her with hammers.

The two married in 1998. They separated February 2003, according to court records. A court hearing on the divorce was set for March.

Virden was not certain if Teresa Robertson was slain in the street or just inside Fairfax Flowers, which she stated in the protective order was her flower shop.

Law enforcement barricaded several blocks of Main Street in Fairfax, a small town town off the beaten path in western Osage County. An Osage County deputy said the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation had taken the lead in the investigation.

Osage County resident Jessika Walters came immediately after hearing the news to pick her child up from the local school.

“I’m very surprised. It’s scary,” Walters said. “This was always the little, small, quiet, tight-knit community ... it was just that dream community.”

A Fairfax resident who did not wish to be named said several people in town suspected marital problems between the two. That resident expressed remorse for the family.

“It’s a small community,” she said. “We’ve been hit hard.”