UPDATE: Little Rock police said Monday that Angela Everett was the police officer who shot a man, now identified as Gregory Childress, who attempted to to rob her Friday night as she left a security job at the state revenue office in a shopping center at Rodney Parham and Reservoir Roads.

The police said:

Advertisement

Detective Angela Everett was working off-duty at the State Revenue Office at 9108 N. Rodney Parham on Feb. 24, 2017. Detective Everett exited the Revenue Office with the bank bags and was walking to her unmarked police car that was parked on the lot. As Detective Everett approached her car she observed a silver SUV-type vehicle rapidly approaching her location. She advised that the vehicle parked slightly behind her car and a passenger exited out of the car wearing a mask and carrying a handgun. As this subject, later identified as Gregory Lamont Childress, 45, of Little Rock advanced toward her he fired his weapon, striking Detective Everett’s vehicle. Detective Everett returned fire with her police department issued weapon, striking Childress. Childress, who was shot, died at the scene as a result of his injuries. The vehicle suspected in the incident was located a short distance away, abandoned, at 1810 Reservoir Road.

The stolen Tahoe used in the robbery attempt was reported taken Friday night from a parking place outside a club at Sixth and Center. No arrests have been made of others who were in the stolen Tahoe.

Advertisement

Channel 4 also added to the news with some surveillance footage from the scene and the disclosure that the brother of the man killed is Durell Childress, who’s serving a life sentence for the slaying of Henry Callanen, a Little Rock police officer killed in 1993 at an off-duty security guard job at a McDonald’s.

Our earlier report:

Advertisement

A Little Rock police officer fatally shot a man he said attempted to rob him in the Ashley Square shopping center parking lot at Rodney Parham and Reservoir Roads about 7:50 p.m. Friday.

The officer, who wasn’t hurt, was in uniform and said she was walking to an unmarked police car after working off-duty as a security officer at a state revenue office when the robbery attempt happened. The officer and robber exchanged gunshots. Details of the incident are not clear. Two other people were being interviewed but it isn’t yet clear if they were viewed as merely witnesses or as potential participants in the reported robbery attempt. Subsequent accounts have said the officer was carrying money bags when the robbery attempt occurred.

A window of a Rock Region Metro bus was hit by a gunshot. The shopping center parking lot was busy with traffic. Chief Kenton Buckner called it a “bizarre” and “brazen” incident. You can watch his statement here. He said the episode “confirms the challenges” police face in the city every day.

Police said no further information, including identity of the victim, would be released until Monday.