CHERAW — A Cheraw police officer has been released from an area hospital Tuesday night after being shot about 5:15 p.m. Monday during a routine traffic stop on Godfrey Street on the south side of Cheraw.

It’s the second time Officer Maurice Merritt has been shot in the line of duty as a law enforcement officer in the Carolinas.

ADDITIONAL CONTENT

Click here to view Travis Quick's arrest record.

Merritt tried to stop the driver in a 2010 Chevy Impala when a chase ensued Monday afternoon. The chase ended around Godfrey Street where the suspect, 27-year-old Travis Keyone Quick of Orangeburg, fired two shots at Merritt as he was getting out of his patrol car, Cheraw Police Chief Jay Brooks said.

Merritt was shot twice in the chest and once in the the upper arm. Two of the shots were stopped by his bulletproof vest.

Merritt was taken to McLeod Regional Medical Center by ambulance where he was discharged Tuesday night, Brooks said.

After he shot Merritt, Quick ran several blocks, jumped a fence and ran into a BGF Industries warehouse where police cornered him, the chief said.

Some employees spotted Quick in the break room, took off his jacket, grabbed someone else’s jacket and put it on, then went to the refrigerator and grabbed a bottle of water before they cornered him.

Quick managed to flee to a different part of the business where police found him and ordered him to drop his gun. That’s when he shot and killed himself, Brooks said.

Brooks said the worst call a law enforcement officer can hear is that another officer has been injured.

“When you hear that over the radio, it’s the one call that a chief doesn’t want to hear, or any officer for that matter wants to hear. Your heart sort of sinks and it’s that two or three minutes before you can get there until you know what’s going on,” he said.

Brooks also said he is very proud of the way his department and other agencies across the area reacted to the situation.

“Everybody responded in an unbelievable manner. There were officers here … I don’t know how they got here that fast,” he said. “As hard of a day as it was, for me as chief to look back on it all, it’s probably Cheraw Police Department’s finest hour because everybody worked together, everybody came out of it OK and we’ll pick up the pieces and go on from here.”

Grief and post-traumatic stress disorder counselors will be helping the officers involved in the situtation cope with its impact, Brooks said.

Merritt, a six-year veteran law enforcement officer, also had been shot in the line of duty when he worked in Greensboro, N.C. He is an Army and Navy veteran, highly skilled in martial arts and has been with the Cheraw Police Department for six months after working for the S.C. Department of Corrections.

The traffic stop was initiated because the driver had stopped in an area known for a high amount of drug activity. Brooks said it turns out the vehicle he was driving was stolen from Greensboro, N.C.

Brooks said Merritt told him this incident bears many eerie similarities to the last time he was shot.

Merritt was shot twice Nov. 23, 2007, during a struggle behind John’s Curb Market at 2000 E. Market St. in Greensboro, N.C., prompted by a routine traffic stop that also happened between 5:15 to 5:30 p.m. He was protected from serious injury by his bulletproof vest and later awarded a Medal of Valor, according to reports from WFMY News 2 in Greensboro, N.C.

The bullet that hit Merritt’s upper arm Monday remains in place because doctors said it would do more damage to remove it, Brooks said.

The chief said he feels a bulletproof vest likely saved Merritt’s life in both situations.

“What makes it hard for us administrators is to know that we have to fight for every dime to buy those vests for our officers when it’s so important for their everyday safety and survival,” Brooks said. “You don’t think about it in a town like this, but it can happen anywhere, anytime.”

According to Quick’s criminal record, he is a convicted felon who had been charged with violent crimes, such as assault and battery of a high and aggravated nature, and recently served a five-year sentence for involuntary manslaughter in Marlboro County in 2002. He was last arrested in 2009 for disorderly conduct.