A gunman has killed two security guards and his stepfather and wounded a police officer before fatally shooting himself in the head.

Evan Casey Bennett, 23, shot security guards Richard Ellison, 53, and Bobby Wood, 65, last Thursday night in South Carolina but wasn't immediately identified and captured.

Police Chief Mike Gambrell said Bennett killed his stepfather Gregory Thomas Jones, 58, on Monday by shooting him in the face with a shotgun.

Scroll down for video

Security guards Richard Ellison (right) and Bobby Wood (left) were shot dead last Thursday night in Greenville, South Carolina. Killer Evan Casey Bennett took his own life on Monday after killing his stepfather

Bennett, 23, shot his stepfather in the face on Monday at their home (pictured) after family members confronted him about his involvement in the security guard killings last week

Bennett then went to Greenville County Law Enforcement Center, where he shot out windows and fired at an officer in the parking lot before turning the gun on himself.

The officer, who has not been identified, was seriously injured after being shot three times and has undergone surgery.

The police chief said Bennett was wearing a tactical vest and camouflage pants and carrying a knife when he arrived at the center, which houses the Greenville Police Department and the local sheriff's office.

He was also carrying a 12-gauge shotgun and a 9mm handgun.

According to WYFF4, Bennett's family said he had been threatening to kill someone in the weeks running up to the shootings but that they did not take him seriously.

On Monday, family members confronted the 23-year-old following the security guard murders outside the Hollingsworth Textile Plant.

Bennett killed his stepfather following the argument and reportedly said: 'The war is just beginning.'

Greenville Sheriff Steven Loftis described the other shootings as a 'senseless thrill killing' and said it appears Bennett was mentally ill.

It is not been determined whether the same shotgun was used in all shootings but Wood's security guard badge was found in Bennett's room along with his ID card.

Bennett had a previous arrest for stalking a woman three years ago but the case was dismissed.