Manslaughter charge is filed in fatal hit-and run

A Tulsa man was charged Monday with first-degree manslaughter on allegations that he hit a motorcycle with his vehicle and then fled.

Robert Lee Chiles, 21, also was charged with leaving the scene of a fatal accident - a felony - driving with a suspended license and failing to carry an insurance verification form.

Police said he was driving a 1999 Chevrolet Camaro north in the 5300 block of North Peoria Avenue on July 4 when he turned left in front of a southbound motorcycle ridden by Donald Eugene Anderson, 52.

Anderson was pronounced dead at a hospital.

The car that police say hit him was found the next day behind a house in the 200 block of 54th Street North. Chiles then surrendered to police, records show.

Chiles is in the Tulsa Jail with bail set at $35,000, records show.

- JERRY WOFFORD, World Staff Writer

Tulsan's death in Creek County custody probed

SAPULPA - The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation has been asked to investigate the death of a Tulsa man Sunday night after the man was arrested for allegedly violating a protective order.

The OSBI identified the man as Matthew Kelley, 27, who lived in Tulsa in Creek County.

According to the Creek County Sheriff's Office, Kelley was arrested at his home after his uncle claimed that Kelley had threatened him and his wife.

When deputies tried to arrest him, Kelley bolted to the back of the house with the deputies in pursuit.

When it appeared that Kelley was looking for something in the kitchen, the Sheriff's Office said, deputies used a Taser on him, with no effect. They then used pepper spray to subdue and handcuff him. A hammer was found on the kitchen floor, but the Sheriff's Office is unsure whether Kelley was trying to get it.

Because he had blood on him, authorities said, Kelley was taken to the hospital in Sapulpa. When he was asked to get out of the squad car, he tried to do so but then slumped back into the seat, authorities said.

Kelley was taken inside, where CPR was started. He was pronounced dead at the hospital.

The state Medical Examiner's Office in Tulsa will determine the cause of his death.

- MANNY GAMALLO, World Staff Writer

Eight people apprehended after two meth labs found

Officers took eight people into custody after two meth labs were found Monday at two east Tulsa residences, police said.

Police also recovered six stolen vehicles from the two residences, in the 2500 and 2600 blocks of South 135th East Avenue, Officer Leland Ashley said.

Seven people were taken to jail, and one person who was at the residence when officers executed a search warrant was taken to a hospital complaining of chest pain, he said.

Two search warrants were obtained after an undercover investigation led officers to the residences, Ashley said.

When police searched the residences early Monday, they found one meth lab at each residence.

Arrested were Jeremy Dale Bobbitt, 31; Kelly Ann Wats, 50; Mark Kendon Jones, 53; Destiny Marae Watson, 30; Vince Darwin Jones, 51; Shelly Jean Steelman, 41; and David Lloyd Morris, 52.

All were arrested on complaints of endeavoring to manufacture a controlled substance. Vince Jones, Steelman and Morris also were jailed on complaints of resisting arrest, records show.

- JERRY WOFFORD, World Staff Writer

Arson suspected in blaze that gutted vacant house

A blaze that destroyed a vacant house Sunday night appears be the most recent in a rash of arsons in the area.

Firefighters were dispatched to 2107 N. Lewis Ave. about 10:15 p.m. to investigate a report of a two-story home that was engulfed in flames, Fire Department spokesman Tim Smallwood said.

"The fire got so intense it started burning a tree across the street," he said.

Firefighters managed to get the blaze extinguished before it caused any major damage to nearby residences.

Smallwood said evidence was found indicating that the fire was intentionally set and that the same person who started it might be responsible for 10 to 15 fires at vacant houses in the last month.

The fires have been set in the middle of the night within about a one-mile radius of this one, Smallwood said.

"Neighbors in that area need to be aware of their surroundings," he said. "If they see anything or anyone that does not belong in their neighborhood, they need to report that. Or, if they live by a vacant house in that area, they also need to be aware."

Smallwood said people should call the police if they see suspicious activity.

Also, anyone with information about the arsons is asked to call the Arson Hotline at 918-596-2776.

The Crime Commission offers rewards for information that leads to arrests, and tipsters can be anonymous.

- NICOLE MARSHALL, World Staff Writer

Store manager thwarts robbery; bandits escape

A group of masked men armed with at least one stun gun and two handguns tried to rob a Best Buy store Monday morning.

Shortly after 7 a.m., four men broke through a glass front door at Best Buy, 5520 E. Skelly Drive, and rounded up employees inside, Officer Jason Willingham said.

A manager saw what was happening and ran outside to call 911, Willingham said.

The robbers realized that at least one of the employees had escaped and fled to a waiting van with a getaway driver.

Anyone with information about the robbery attempt is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 918-596-COPS. Callers can be anonymous, and the Crime Commission offers rewards for information that leads to arrests.

- NICOLE MARSHALL, World Staff Writer

Man charged in 6 holdups, including pharmacy, banks

A man was charged Monday with six counts of robbery in connection with heists at a pharmacy and two banks that date to 2009, court records state.

Tristan Jon Wilson-Crisp, 24, is charged with four counts of robbery with a firearm and two counts of robbery with a dangerous weapon.

In the latter two holdups, a knife was used, court documents filed Monday state.

Wilson-Crisp was arrested after the July 4 robbery of a Whataburger at 1432 S. Peoria Ave. Officers found him in the area with a 9mm handgun and a money bag that they believe was taken from the store, police said.

The other robberies were Feb. 18 at the Walgreens store at 3112 S. Harvard Ave.; Jan. 27 and Jan. 29 at the Arvest Bank branches at 1515 S. Utica Ave. and 4825 E. 36th St., respectively; Jan. 19 at the Church's Chicken at 2555 E. Pine St.; and Oct. 20, 2009, at the QuikTrip store at 1443 S. Denver Ave.

Court records state that Wilson-Crisp is a transient.

He remains in the Tulsa Jail with bail set at $300,000, records show.

- JERRY WOFFORD, World Staff Writer

Home-invasion shooting leaves 1 dead, 1 in coma

BOYNTON - One man was killed and another was hospitalized Monday in what authorities are calling a home-invasion shooting.

Wayne Edward Lawler, 20, was killed and Joshua Dandre Penn, 22, is in a coma in a Tulsa hospital, Muskogee County Sheriff's Office investigator Roy Banks said.

Penn was able to call 911 and "was calm at the time," Banks said.

The two men were once foster brothers, he said.

No one has been arrested in the case.

Sheriff Charles Pearson said officials are not releasing many details.

He said a search warrant was served at the home where the two men lived.

Anyone with information about the shooting is asked to call the Sheriff's Office at 918-684-1641.

- SUSAN HYLTON, World Staff Writer

Haskell man is accused of shooting brother to death

HASKELL - A Haskell man is suspected of fatally shooting his older brother after an argument Sunday morning, Muskogee County authorities said.

Brady Dennis Oliver, 46, died after he was shot about 5:50 a.m., Sheriff's Office investigator Faye Banks said.

Authorities tracked Oliver's brother, Brandon C. Oliver, 21, to Sand Springs, where he was arrested.

Banks said officers recovered what they believe is the weapon that was used in the killing, a .410-gauge shotgun.

Brandon Oliver is being held in the Muskogee County Jail on a first-degree murder complaint.

Banks said the argument stemmed from the younger brother's belief that his older brother was talking to a Haskell police officer about his outstanding arrest warrants.

At one point, the older brother was swinging a chain with a lock on the end of it, Banks said.

"Brandon ran in the house; then Brady went in the house, and everybody heard a gunshot," he said.

The house is the brothers' parents' home.

- SUSAN HYLTON, World Staff Writer

Manslaughter charge filed in Adair County stabbing

A man was stabbed to death during a fight in Adair County last week, the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation reported.

The Adair County Sheriff's Office responded Thursday to a home about 11 miles south of Stilwell on U.S. 59, where Jason Littlecook, 32, and Justin Dale Killer, 28, reportedly were fighting, according to an OSBI statement.

Killer is accused of pulling a knife from his front pocket and stabbing Littlecook in the neck, the OSBI reported.

Killer was charged with first-degree manslaughter Friday and was arrested that same day.

- JERRY WOFFORD, World Staff Writer

Kansas couple are killed in Washington County crash

A Kansas couple were killed Sunday when they pulled onto U.S. 75 in Washington County and were hit by another vehicle, according to the Oklahoma Highway Patrol.

Floyd Stammer, 82, and Verona Stammer, 80, both of Oswego, Kan., were both pronounced dead at the scene, troopers said.

Floyd Stammer was pulling out of a private drive onto the highway about half a mile north of Dewey about 11:45 a.m. when his 1992 Oldsmobile Eighty-Eight was hit by a northbound 1999 Chevrolet Silverado pickup. Verona Stammer was his passenger.

According to an OHP report, Floyd Stammer failed to yield to the oncoming traffic.

The pickup's driver, Jeffery A. Bryant, 41, of Stillwater, and his passenger, Desiree Males, 16, of Coffeyville, Kan., were treated at Jane Phillips Medical Center in Bartlesville and released, troopers reported.

The occupants of both vehicles were wearing seat belts, according to the report.

- JERRY WOFFORD, World Staff Writer

Former prosecutor pleads no contest in fraud case

BLACKWELL - A former first assistant district attorney in Kay County has pleaded no contest to one count of embezzlement and has been ordered to pay $45,000 in restitution.

William Louis Clark Jr. was charged May 24, 2010, in Kay County with two counts of embezzlement on allegations that he took $45,000 in cash.

Authorities said the money was missing from a safe in the District Attorney's Office and was not turned in after it was given to Clark.

Associate District Judge Sheila Kirk sentenced Clark on Thursday to a three-year deferred sentence, a $500 deferred fee and court costs.

He also was ordered to pay restitution to the Kay County District Attorney's Office and perform 100 hours of community service.

Court documents show that the money disappeared sometime between April 7, 2007, and Clark's resignation on June 18, 2008.

District Attorney John Wampler said the restitution was paid before the plea.

Kirk was assigned to the case after all the judges in the 8th Judicial District recused themselves.

- FROM THE OKLAHOMAN