Prosecutors will push forward in the case against the men accused of conspiring to kill Tulsa businessman Neal Sweeney despite the apparent self-inflicted shooting death of a key prosecution witness.

Allen Shields, 34, shot himself early Tuesday after a seven-hour standoff with police, officials said. An 11-year-old girl who was held hostage during the standoff was released unharmed before the shooting.

Sweeney, 63, was shot in the head Sept. 4, 2008, at his business, Retail Fuels Marketing, 3158 S. 108th East Ave. He died at a hospital the next day.

Shields, one of five defendants and a key witness in the murder-for-hire case, had been free on bond since pleading guilty to a conspiracy count in a plea deal last year.

He had been scheduled for a court appearance Monday afternoon, but he did not appear, District Attorney Tim Harris said at a news conference Tuesday morning.

"I had a pit in my stomach when he didn't show," Harris said. "That was the first time that he was not present as ordered."

Harris said his office will make a motion to introduce a transcript of Shields' preliminary hearing testimony at his co-defendants' trials.

Harris said there is precedent for using such a transcript and that the motion should be accepted because Shields testified under oath and faced his accusers during a preliminary hearing. Harris said that satisfies provisions in the Sixth Amendment.

The plea deal had required Shields to tell the truth at any trial or court proceeding where he was required to testify, according to Tulsa World archives.

The plea deal and Shields' resulting testimony were necessary "to pierce the conspiracy," Harris said in October and again Tuesday.

"Very difficult decisions have to be made," Harris said about his decision to offer Shields a plea deal. "Allen Shields was the one cooperating witness. ... There is no case without Shields."

Detective Vic Regalado, one of the lead detectives in the Sweeney investigation, said Shields' testimony is important to the case.

"It will be up to the courts to decide how his testimony will be introduced. It is certainly a hurdle, but there have been plenty of hurdles in this case that we have overcome, and I am sure that we will find a way to overcome this one," Regalado said.

Police are "extremely relieved that the little girl was not harmed" and made it out of the home safely, he said.

Regalado also said detectives are continuing to investigate Shields and his associates as suspects in other unsolved homicides.

"We still believe that Allen Shields and others close to him were involved in several unsolved murders, and we encourage people to come forward who might have knowledge about those cases," he said.

The girl's mother told police that she and her daughter returned to their home in the 5000 block of North Utica Place shortly before 5:30 p.m. Monday. The woman said Shields was already inside and confronted her as they came in the door, Officer Leland Ashley said.

The mother was able to escape, but Shields didn't allow the child to leave, Ashley said. The Special Operations Team was called, and negotiators talked with Shields by phone throughout the evening.

After the girl was safely out of the house about 10:30 p.m. Monday, police heard one or two gunshots from inside the residence, Ashley said. They also fired pepper balls into the house. After getting no response from Shields, police entered the house about 12:50 a.m. Tuesday and found Shields dead, Ashley said.

He confirmed that the girl and her mother were the same people Shields was accused of holding captive in the same home last year. He was also accused of taking a "homicide kit" - which included a handgun, handcuffs and drugs that could induce sleep - to the house at that time.

In a plea agreement in that case, Shields pleaded guilty to a charge of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon.

Allison Turner, one of Sweeney's daughters, released a statement on behalf of the family Tuesday afternoon.

"We are so thankful for the Tulsa Police Department and their ability to save that little girl last night. I am truly sad for how much trauma she has been though in her young life. I pray it ended last night for her," she stated.

"We also recognize that there are so many other people who were permanently affected by Mr. Shields' choices and actions. I hope that they also find some peace and closure that they so much deserve."

Sweeney's family members said they are remaining strong in their faith and that they continue to receive support from family, friends and the Tulsa community.

"We are so very thankful for everyone who has walked this walk with us, in every aspect," Turner stated. "We know we are not alone in this. No words could ever describe our gratitude."

World Staff Writers Jerry Wofford and Bill Braun contributed to this story.

Murder case who’s who

The victim

Neal Sweeney

The 63-year-old was shot in the head at his business during the morning of Sept. 4, 2008. Prosecutors allege that a hitman was hired to kill Sweeney — a prominent Tulsa businessman, former University of Tulsa football player and community leader — over a business deal.

The prosecutor

Tim Harris

The Tulsa County District Attorney and his office filed the first charge on June 4, 2009 — eight months after Sweeney’s death. A total of five people have been charged in the ongoing murder-conspiracy case.

The accused

Allen Shields

He pleaded guilty to the murder conspiracy and struck a deal with prosecutors to testify against the alleged co-conspirators. Prosecutors alleged that Shields helped facilitate payment for the killing. Shields, 34, was found dead Tuesday morning after reportedly shooting himself during a police standoff that involved an 11-year-old girl as a hostage.

Fred Shields Jr.

He was charged for his alleged role in recruiting a hitman. Fred Shields Jr., 37, Allen Shields’ brother, is in jail on the Sweeney murder charges and was convicted of second-degree murder in 1995 in a 12-year-old girl’s death. He was also a suspect in connection with the 2000 Osage County homicide of Raymond Lee Knox Jr. but has not been charged in that case.

Terrico Bethel

The 25-year-old is accused of being the triggerman in Neal Sweeney’s shooting. Bethel was jailed within nine months of the shooting and has remained in jail ever since.

Mohammed Aziz

The 58-year-old is accused of instigating and facilitating the murder-for-hire plot, allegedly agreeing to pay $10,000 for a hitman to kill Sweeney. Court documents indicate that Sweeney’s business obtained a $238,368.72 default judgment against Aziz in May 2008 for gas sold at his store.

Alonzo Johnson

The 39-year-old allegedly helped facilitate payment for the Sweeney killing. Johnson is charged with conspiracy to commit murder, two charges of knowingly concealing stolen property and possession of a firearm, among other charges and complaints.

Jarrel Wade 918-581-8367 Nicole Marshall 918-581-8459

jarrel.wade@tulsaworld.com nicole.marshall@tulsaworld.com SUBHEAD: Sweeney case to go on after witness's apparent suicide

Original Print Headline: Shooting ends standoff