A Brooklyn man killed by police after stabbing his wife Monday had been freed on low bail just hours earlier after a previous assault on her, officials said yesterday. Police said they shot Marcellus Graham, 28, as he held knives to the back and chest of his estranged wife in their Flatbush apartment. "I'll pull the knife from her back, but then I'll stab her in the heart," Graham told cops, who had broken down the door to the fifth-floor apartment where he held Bashanie Dawes, 26. Dawes had already been stabbed five times in her chest, stomach and arm by the time 67th Precinct Officer Jamie Witkin felled Graham with a single gunshot to the chin, cops said. Countercharges Court officials and prosecutors pointed fingers at each other yesterday over Graham's release Monday after an earlier attack on Dawes, who had an order of protection against him. The incident came amid a promise from police to overhaul their backlogged domestic violence database. On Saturday, Graham had been charged with trying to drown Dawes in a bathtub, choking her with a telephone cord and slapping her face. The attack occurred Aug. 14, but Dawes, who continued to live with Graham in the New Vanderveer Estates project on New York Ave., did not report it until 10 days later. Brooklyn prosecutor John Carlton asked for $2,500 bail, arguing Graham had assaulted Dawes in 1999. However, Brooklyn Criminal Court Judge Betty Williams set bail at $500, which Graham raised by selling his car. "We indicated the serious nature of the defendant's background and asked for greater bail," said Jerry Schmetterer, a spokesman for the Brooklyn district attorney's office. Changed locks David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the office of Court Administration, fired back by questioning why the charges against Graham were misdemeanors and not felonies. Schmetterer declined comment on that issue. When Dawes heard Graham was being freed, she had the locks on the apartment changed Monday, sources said. She even drove to the 67th Precinct stationhouse Monday evening to request a police escort back to her apartment, but left before one was ready, according to Chief Michael Collins, an NYPD spokesman. When Graham attacked her, Dawes was with her two daughters, ages 4 and 3, who slipped out of the apartment when she broke free momentarily, cops said. Graham chased Dawes down the stairs and dragged her back by her feet, police said. Graham managed this despite having only one leg, losing his prosthetic device during the struggle. Neighbors said they heard cops repeatedly order Graham to "Drop it! Show us your hands.

" Collins said Witkin fired only as a last resort to save Dawes' life.