A man who was killed by a police sniper during a standoff Monday had a history of suicide attempts and apparently was trying to commit "suicide by cop," authorities said.

Daniel Leroy Nichols' death ended an hours-long standoff outside an aeronautics company in the 3100 block of North 74th East Avenue.

Nichols, 57, called police about 7:30 p.m. Sunday and said he was going to kill himself, Officer Jason Willingham said.

Officers arrived at the business and found Nichols armed with a semiautomatic pistol. He paced through the parking lot for several hours while holding the gun to his head, according to police.

Negotiators tried to defuse the situation but were stalled several times when Nichols hung up a phone he was using, police said.

During the intermittent negotiations, Nichols told officers that he had attempted suicide a handful of times in the past month but failed.

There was no way to know whether he planned to open fire on the officers, Willingham said.

"We don't have the luxury of having a crystal ball to look into it to figure out what his intent was," he said.

When Nichols aimed his gun at officers just after midnight, Officer Phil Whitehead fired a single shot, killing him.

"Sometimes we're able to convince them that this isn't the best answer and that they should surrender, and sometimes not," Willingham said.

"The whole 'suicide-by-cop' term has received a lot of attention, and that's in essence what this was."

Whitehead is on routine paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, police said.

Nichols had backed his car into an isolated parking lot at Sparks Aviation Center and was surrounded on three sides by fences and buildings. One of the fences separated him from runways at Tulsa International Airport.

The business' owner hadn't had any previous contact with Nichols, and police said it wasn't clear why he holed up outside the shop, which offers aircraft repair and parts installation.

Nichols previously was from Missouri, police said. Detectives are continuing to gather information about him and what might have led him to be suicidal.

World Staff Writer Nicole Marshall contributed to this story.

Matt Barnard 581-8408

matt.barnard@tulsaworld.com SUBHEAD: He engaged police in a standoff and was killed when he aimed a gun at officers.