Zachary Whitfield was killed during a standoff with Greenville County sheriff's deputies following a reported burglary.

SHARE

By Mike Ellis of the Independent Mail

A Greenville man who was shot multiple times and killed by sheriff's deputies in a standoff Tuesday had a record of burglary and larceny.

Zachary Whitfield, 25, was shot during a confrontation at Saluda Dam and White Horse Roads in the Berea community, about a mile from his home on Saluda Dam Road.

Deputies shot Whitfield "multiple times," said Barry Wright, deputy Greenville County coroner. An autopsy was conducted Wednesday, but Wright declined to give a more precise number of gunshot wounds pending an investigation into the shooting. He said toxicology tests would take about six more weeks.

Whitfield died instantly, Wright said.

He was suspected of robbing a Powdersville home before leading deputies on a chase that led to the intersection where he was killed.

According to a deputy's report, Richard Gantt, 74, and his wife returned to their house around 2:30 p.m. Tuesday, in time to see a man wearing dark clothing and carrying a white duffel bag leaving.

Gantt was able to grab the bag but the man left in a black Ford Explorer with paper temporary tags. The burglar also took a pellet gun, a small-caliber handgun and $450 in unspecified medication from the house, according to the deputy's report.

Whitfield refused to leave his car at first and attempts by Greenville County deputies to use negotiation and less-lethal weapons were not able to get him into custody, said Master Deputy Jennings Autrey, a spokesman for the Greenville County Sheriff's Office.

Whitfield pointed a handgun at deputies immediately before they opened fire, according to a statement from the Greenville County Sheriff's Office. Officials declined to say whether the gun he was alleged to have been holding came from Gantt's home.

Seven deputies fired at Whitfield and were placed on administrative duty pending an investigation, according to a statement from the sheriff's office. Desk duty and an investigation by both the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division and the internal affairs division of the sheriff's office are standard for deputy-involved shootings, a spokesman for sheriff's office said.

Whitfield's record shows he had pleaded guilty to two drug offenses, a larceny of $5,000 or more and a charge of burglary. Whitfield's convictions date back to 2006 or earlier.

His Facebook page indicates that he owned a small electrician business, graduated from Berea High School in 2004 and had a 7-year-old daughter.