A Timmonsville man has been convicted of felony driving under the influence in a crash that killed his wife a year ago in Darlington County, according to the 4th Circuit Solicitor’s Office.

A jury also found 48-year-old Charlton Lafate Hill, of 1101 Sansbury Road, guilty of failure to stop for a blue light resulting in death, involuntary manslaughter and reckless homicide.

The trial began Monday and the jury returned the verdict about noon Wednesday.

Fourth Circuit Judge Mike Baxley sentenced Hill to 25 years in prison for the felony DUI and 10 years in prison for the failure to stop charge. The sentences will run consecutively. Baxley also sentenced Hill to five years in prison for the manslaughter charge and 10 years in prison for the homicide charge. Those charges will run concurrently.

Hill was accused of leading a S.C. Highway Patrol trooper on a high-speed chase that began about 6:30 p.m. Jan. 8, 2010, and ended when his 2005 Chevy Cobalt ran into a tree on the 1600 block of Potato House Road near Darlington.

His only passenger, his 47-year-old wife Sylvia Britt Mattox Hill, was pronounced dead at the scene, Darlington County Coroner Todd Hardee said in a press release issued the day after the crash.

The chase, which lasted about a minute, started with an attempted traffic stop on Potato House Road, S.C. Highway Patrol Trooper Lance Cpl. Sonny Collins said.

The driver of the Cobalt failed to stop for blue lights and fled, Collins said. The pursuing trooper was not injured.

Patrol officials reviewed the case to make sure policy was followed, Collins said.

“Because the trooper was chasing the car, they (S.C. Highway Patrol) have asked us to investigate the wreck,” Darlington County Sheriff Wayne Byrd said in a press release issued the day after Hill’s arrest.

The Darlington Police Department provided the sheriff’s office with an accident reconstructionist to assist in the investigation, Darlington County Sheriff’s Capt. Andy Locklair said in an earlier report.

Footage from the trooper’s dashboard camera was played for the jury during Hill’s trial that showed he was the driver of the vehicle, the solicitor’s office said. After his conviction, Hill maintained he had not been driving the car when the crash happened.

Hill was arrested upon his discharge from an area hospital Jan. 10, 2010, Locklair said.

Assistant 4th Circuit Solicitors John Holt, Kendall Burch and Patti Parker prosecuted the case.