Dashcam video from fatal police chase (Source: HCPD)

MYRTLE BEACH, SC (WMBF) The Horry County Coroner's Office has identified a man police say died as the result of a motorcycle chase early Wednesday morning.

Lt. Raul Denis, spokesman for the Horry County Police Department said a county officer saw a motorcycle driving extremely fast and attempted to pull over the driver for speeding around 12:30 a.m. on SC Highway 9.

The officer said the motorcyclist refused to stop, and eventually lost control of the bike near the intersection of Highway 9 and Olive Road in the Green Sea community.

According to a police report, the officer was on scene of a separate traffic stop when he was notified of a motorcycle headed his way. When he heard and saw the motorcycle, he made sure his blue lights were on so he motorcyclist would see his vehicle and a tow truck along the side of the road.

The report stated the motorcyclist drove by the scene without slowing down and was traveling at a very high rate of speed. At that time, the officer attempted to conduct a traffic stop.

When the motorcyclist reportedly did not stop for the officer, a chase ensued.

According to the report, as the motorcyclist approached the intersection of Highway 9 and Olive Road, the officer observed the motorcyclist look over his left shoulder and gestured at the officer with his left arm.

The officer said he then watched as the motorcyclist ran into a ditch and was ejected from his motorcycle, causing his helmet to come off of his head. The motorcyclist was found in a grassy area on the other side of the ditch and was transported to a local hospital.

A short time after, officers received word the suspect had died, according to the report.

Horry County Coroner Robert Edge has identified the victim as Hartford Dwayne Holmes, 49, of Loris. He died as a result of trauma due to the accident.

Denis said the South Carolina Highway Patrol's MAIT team is investigating the accident.

Copyright 2011 WMBF News. All rights reserved