The lawyer for a State Transport police officer who was in a wreck that killed an elderly man says his client pleaded guilty to driving too fast for conditions and paid a $130 fine.The State Department of Public Safety is facing a wrongful death lawsuit in connection to the wreck. The suit claims the agency should not have hired Officer Gerald Sims because of his previous driving record.The investigation into the wreck that caused the death of 91-year-old Thomas Hancock found that Sims, who was on duty, was speeding when the crash happened. Hancock died nine days after the crash of complications from head injuries he suffered in the crash.Greenville County Sheriff’s Office investigators said that they determined that Hancock made an illegal left turn into the path of Sims’ police vehicle.Investigators said they also determined that Sims was going 74 mph in a 45 mph zone when he saw Hancock turn, and slowed to just over 55 mph before he crashed into Hancock’s minivan.According to court records, the charge against Sims was the third in four years, including charges in connection to a single-vehicle wreck on Interstate 385 when Sims was a Greenville police officer. (Full Story).Because of the pending lawsuit, the DPS would not comment on the case. The lawsuit is seeking a jury trial and punitive damages.

The lawyer for a State Transport police officer who was in a wreck that killed an elderly man says his client pleaded guilty to driving too fast for conditions and paid a $130 fine.

The State Department of Public Safety is facing a wrongful death lawsuit in connection to the wreck. The suit claims the agency should not have hired Officer Gerald Sims because of his previous driving record.

Advertisement

The investigation into the wreck that caused the death of 91-year-old Thomas Hancock found that Sims, who was on duty, was speeding when the crash happened. Hancock died nine days after the crash of complications from head injuries he suffered in the crash.

Greenville County Sheriff’s Office investigators said that they determined that Hancock made an illegal left turn into the path of Sims’ police vehicle.

Investigators said they also determined that Sims was going 74 mph in a 45 mph zone when he saw Hancock turn, and slowed to just over 55 mph before he crashed into Hancock’s minivan.

According to court records, the charge against Sims was the third in four years, including charges in connection to a single-vehicle wreck on Interstate 385 when Sims was a Greenville police officer. (Full Story).

Because of the pending lawsuit, the DPS would not comment on the case. The lawsuit is seeking a jury trial and punitive damages.