Keith Jamarcus Durham (Source: Richland County)

Deputy Reginald Grant (Source: Richland County Sheriff's Department)

The location of the fight and shooting. (Source: Mary King)

The motel where the incident began. (Source: Mary King)

The motel where the incident began. (Source: Mary King)

RICHLAND COUNTY, SC (WIS) - Authorities have released the identity of a Columbia man who was shot and killed by a deputy during a struggle early Thursday morning near a hotel known for drugs and prostitution, according to the sheriff.



Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott says Deputy Reginald Grant, while on routine patrol, spotted what he believed to be a domestic situation near the Quality Inn on Garner Lane around 4 a.m. Lott said Grant approached the suspect, Keith Durham, 30, to ask him some questions and pat him down, but he ran away.



Grant caught up with Durham about 75 yards away near the 1300 block of Longcreek Drive. The deputy tried to use his taser to subdue the suspect, but a fight ensued.



Durham gained control of the taser and used it on Grant, but the deputy was able to get his taser back, Lott said. During the struggle, Grant suffered a knee injury and was bitten by the suspect, the sheriff said.

According to the sheriff, Durham then went for Grant's gun, but a new holster the department incorporated about a year ago prevented that from happening.

The suspect then grabbed Grant's taser again, Lott said. At that point, the deputy shot Durham multiple times.

Lott said the Durham had a large bag of cocaine in his possession and that the deputy possibly interrupted some criminal activity that was taking place.

Durham was taken to the hospital where he later died. Grant was treated at the scene and was transported to the hospital. He is expected to be okay.

Longcreek Drive at Broad River Road is closed while officers investigate. Only residents are permitted to access the area.

Richland County Coroner Gary Watts said Durham died from complications of being shot in the upper body.

SLED is assisting Richland County in the investigation.



Copyright 2012 WIS. All rights reserved.