CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The Nov. 29, 2012 police chase that ended in a barrage of 137 bullets fired by 13 Cleveland officers, killing two unarmed suspects, horrified the public and shamed the department in national news stories.

"Even if I lived under a rock I would have known about that incident," said Geoffrey Alpert, a professor of criminology and criminal justice at the University of South Carolina, and an expert on police violence and pursuit driving.

"It's been in the news a lot, and they've got a black eye from this," Alpert said.

While the police chase incident has cast the department in a more ignominious light, other shootings by Cleveland police officers over the past decade have attracted far less critical attention.

Since 2000, city police officers have been involved in 61 shooting incidents, resulting in 32 fatalities, according to news reports reviewed by The Plain Dealer.

Of the shooting investigations that were resolved, all were ruled to be justified by prosecutors, grand juries, or police department brass.

The bloodiest era during that period occurred from January 2002 to February 2004, when city police officers shot 19 people, killing 10.

One officer, James Simone, aka "Supercop," was responsible for shooting 12 suspects, five of whom died, during his nearly 40-year career. He retired in 2011.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Justice Department is conducting its second investigation of the police department since 2000. The latest review involves officers' possible use of excessive force, focusing on the training and supervision of officers, and the measures in place to hold them accountable for misconduct.

The FBI's most recent statistics of police officers' use of deadly force show that in 2009 the number of so-called "justifiable homicides" nationwide was 414. In 2010, the number was 387, according to reports.

Patrick D'Angelo, the lawyer for the Cleveland Police Patrolmen's Association, said in the case of most shootings, the officers are not the initiators. They are responding to threats or criminal behavior.

"It's not a police department run amok," D'Angelo said. "It's a class of society that is anti-social and sociopathic, often under the influence, and in areas where the streets are crawling with serial offenders and others engaged in criminal behavior.

"When you hear what's out there, it's not surprising that sometimes the police have to shoot people."

POLICE SHOOTINGS 2000-2014

May 19, 2014: When officers responded to a report of a shooting on Fleet Avenue near East 57th Street, they found one man shot in the leg and, about 20 minutes later, the suspected shooter fleeing on a bicycle. When an officer tried to stop him, the man ditched his bicycle and ran. Confronted by the officers, the man pulled out a gun, and an officer shot him.

Dec. 10, 2013: Detective Robert Miles shot and wounded burglary suspect Xavier Hempstead in the neck and shoulder while he sat in his car on Emery Avenue. The officer said he saw Hempstead point a gun at him. A search of the car found no gun.

Dec. 10, 2013: Detective John Lally shot and wounded Demarkos Simmons, 22, on West 32nd Street when the suspect attempted to ram him with a stolen van.

July 26, 2013: Officers shot an unidentified man they suspected had earlier shot a security guard at a bar on East 131st Street. When the officers arrived, they saw a man leaving the bar with a handgun. They ordered him to stop, but he ran, then stopped and fired at them. They returned fire and hit him multiple times.

June 23, 2013: Gregory Love, 29, of Maple Heights, said he was unarmed and holding his arms in the air when Officer Vincent Montague Jr. shot him in the arm and chest in the Warehouse District. Love sued the officer and the city in federal court.

Oct. 2012: A judge sentenced Roy Rudisill Jr., 48, to 2-1/2 years in prison after he determined the man was attempting "suicide by cop" prior to being shot by two officers four times in the arm and five times in a leg. Rudisill charged at the officers from his home on West 97th Street, clenching a socket wrench and refusing to show his hands.

Sept. 12, 2012: Just after midnight on a Saturday night, two patrolmen spotted a man walking near East 93rd Street and Parmalee Avenue with an open beer in his hand. When the officers stopped the suspect they noticed he had a gun stuck in his waistband and ordered him to keep his hands in the air. When the man lowered one of his hands Patrolman Mark Worsencroft shot him in the abdomen. Only later did the officers learn the identity of the shooting victim: Randall Scott Jr., the 27-year-old son of former Cleveland City Councilwoman Sabra Pierce Scott and city worker Randall Scott. The shooting victim survived his wound.

Aug. 12, 2012: Lisa and Michael Maclin were walking two dogs on East 140th Street near Rugby Avenue, when Dirt, their Rottweiler/Labrador retriever mix broke loose and attacked a poodle. Sgt. Paul Baeppler pulled up in his cruiser and fired two blasts from a 12-gauge shotgun. When the dog charged him, the officer fired a third blast, killing the dog. Lisa Maclin was hit on the back of her head by a shotgun pellet that had to be surgically removed from her brain. The Maclins sued Baeppler, the city, Mayor Frank Jackson, and former Police Chief Michael McGrath. The couple is seeking at least $2.5 million in damages.

April 14, 2012: An officer fired two shots at Clarence Bennet, 30, who was fleeing, after police suspected the man had fired three shots at him. No one was hit by the gunfire, and Bennet was arrested and charged with felonious assault of a police officer.

March 13, 2012: Four undercover vice detectives shot and killed Willie Sudduth of Cleveland. The shooters were identified as Lt. Gordon Holmes, Detective Thomas Barnes, Detective John Hall, and Detective Michael Rasberry. The officers said they saw two men running from a store at East 93rd Street, and Sudduth fired shots at an unknown target. The officers ordered Sudduth to drop his handgun. Instead, he fired at officers, who returned fire, striking and killing him.

March 10, 2012: Off-duty officer Roger Jones shot and killed Kenneth Smith, 20, of Euclid, who Jones said he had seen reach for a handgun. The shooting occurred following a fight in a bar parking lot on Bolivar Avenue. Jones said he saw Smith fire a gun, then flee. The driver and a passenger surrendered. But Jones said he saw Smith reach for a gun, so he shot him. Smith's family sued Jones, claiming the victim was unarmed and trying to surrender. This past April, Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Timothy J. McGinty ruled the shooting justified, and praised Jones for "correctly and heroically" taking action to protect the safety of the citizens of Cleveland.

Jan. 6, 2012: Officers shot a 24-year-old suspect from Lexington, Ky., during an exchange of gunfire with police who had interrupted a drug deal on Naumann Avenue. The gunshot victim and three co-defendants from Kentucky were arrested.

Sept. 6, 2011: Five officers shot and wounded Donald Rodgers, 39, on West 37th Street after he shot a 35-year-old woman during a domestic dispute. The officers involved in the shooting were Anthony Espada, Mathias Varga, Michael Rinkus, Brian Middaugh, and Thomas Magyar. The officers said they repeatedly warned Rodgers to drop his gun, but he refused and waved it at the officers threateningly. The officers shot Rodgers in his legs.

July 29, 2011: Officers shot and killed Illuminado Lopez, 44, of Cleveland, who was drunk, depressed and wielding a butcher knife in the street near his home on West 52nd Street. Lopez refused orders to drop the knife, and continued to act aggressively after he was shot with a Taser, so the officers gunned him down. Family members said Lopez never threatened the officers, but only threatened to kill himself if police didn't shoot him.

July 4, 2011: Daniel Ficker, 27, and his girlfriend attended a party at the Cleveland home of officer David Mindek. After they left the party, Mindek's wife -- a cousin of Ficker's girlfriend -- noticed $8,000 in jewelry and cash had been stolen. She suspected Ficker. Mindek, who was off-duty, called an on-duty officer, Matthew Craska, and together they went to Ficker's girlfriend's house in Parma, where they confronted the suspect, who was drunk. There was a fistfight, and Craska shot and killed Ficker. Mindek was charged with dereliction of duty for failing to assist Craska in the arrest, but he was acquitted at a trial. Ficker's family filed a federal wrongful death suit against the officers, the police department and the city.

May 26, 2011: Two officers discovered a robbery in progress at a Wendy's restaurant on Pearl Road, and shot one of the suspects four times in the legs after he refused to drop his gun. An armed juvenile accomplice surrendered. A ricocheted bullet also hit a 21-year-old restaurant employee in the shoulder.

April 8, 2011: Officer Walter Thomas was working off-duty as a security guard when he shot and killed Aron Jones, 32, a gun-wielding felon, outside Libations Bar at East 91st Street and Aetna Road. Thomas, now retired, was on paid sick-leave from his police job at the time he was working the security job. Thomas said he saw Jones shoot a man outside the bar. After Jones refused Thomas' order to drop his gun, Thomas shot him three times. Witnesses said Jones had surrendered and was on his knees when he was shot.

April 18, 2011: An officer shot and killed Leon James, 23, a suspected kidnapper accused of trying to run down the officer with a pickup truck following a high-speed chase through several East Side communities. Police arrested four other suspects in the kidnapping of Lloyd Davis, 58, who was held for ransom, but was not injured.

Sept. 30, 2010: Officers shot and killed Danny Withers Jr., 21, an unarmed bank robbery suspect. The officers had gone to a home on East 125th Street that Withers shared with his grandmother to arrest him on a warrant. Detective Daniel Zola fired a single shot into Withers' chest as the suspect emerged with one arm raised from a closet in a dimly lit basement. Withers was suspected of robbing a Fifth Third Bank on Lorain Avenue five days earlier. His fingerprints were found on a note the robber passed to a teller, and on a door at the bank. Police later found additional evidence at the home that linked Withers to the robbery. No gun was found in the house, but police found a screwdriver near the scene of the shooting.

Sept. 3, 2010: An officer shot Byron Carner, 43, who the officer accused of lunging at him with a knife. Police had responded to a report of a man threatening family members on Whitcomb Road. When they arrived, they found family members on the street trying to restrain Carner, who later fled. An officer caught up to Carner and ordered him to drop the knife. When the suspect lunged at the officer, he shot him twice.

June 10, 2010: A patrolman shot Germaine Ware, 24, after he tried to hit him with a car at East 134th Street and Glenside Road. The driver of the car complied with orders to exit the car, but Ware slid into the driver's seat and drove toward the officers. The officer fired, striking Ware in the shoulder.

Dec. 23, 2009: Officer Aaron Petitt, coming to the aid of bounty hunters, shot and killed a 29-year-old Cleveland man during a struggle on Signet Avenue. The bounty hunters were trying to capture the man, who was wanted on a domestic violence charge. The shooting victim had entered a home and barricaded himself in a second-floor room. Petitt and a bounty hunter tried to use a board to force open the door. Petitt was stabbed in the foot and struck in the head with a board during the struggle.

Aug. 19, 2009: Friendly fire nearly killed an officer after his colleagues mistakenly opened fire on him. The officers were called to a home on West 40th Street for a report of a tenant threatening another tenant with a gun. Two officers entered the house from the rear, while two others stayed outside in front. When one of the officers inside opened the front door and the officers outside spotted the gun two of them fired several shots until they realized the man with the gun was a fellow officer. None of the officers were injured.

May 22, 2009: An off-duty officer shot and killed a man suspected of robbing drivers passing through a construction zone near Kinsman Road. A group of phony construction workers had set up a checkpoint where they were robbing drivers at gunpoint. One of the victims was an off-duty officer. Cory Dix, 22, blocked the officer's car with a construction barrel. When Dix brandished a gun he and the officer exchanged gunfire, and Dix was killed. The officer was not injured.

April 15, 2009: Two officers shot and killed Kevin Jackson, 28, after they said the suspect had fired a gun at them. The officers were called to East 128th Street and Woodside Avenue to investigate a report of drug activity in the area. Jackson was selling crack cocaine when the officers approached. Jackson fled, but later confronted the officers. Gunfire erupted, Jackson was hit and later died.

Nov. 12, 2008: An undercover narcotics officer shot Kameron Brown, 19, after he said the suspect tried to rob him at gunpoint. Brown was selling crack cocaine in a parking lot at the Riverside Estates on Rocky River Drive. Brown offered to sell the undercover officer crack, then robbed him at gunpoint. The officer fired and hit Brown five times after he said he was threatened.

Sept. 10, 2008: Officers shot Gatha Dye III, 21, after he refused to drop a handgun during a chase. The officers said when they pulled over a suspected stolen car on Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, a 17-year-old girl jumped out and ran. Dye, the driver, sped off but struck a light pole, then fled. The officers confronted Dye, but he refused to drop his weapon, so they shot him twice in the chest and once in the arm.

July 9, 2008: Patrolman James Simone, aka "Supercop," shot and killed an unarmed bank robber, Robert Hackworth, 35, the fifth suspect Simone had killed, and the 12th suspect shot, during his nearly 40-year police career. Simone was off-duty when he entered a bank on Fulton Road and a teller told him she had just been robbed. He chased Hackworth, who fled in a stolen truck. A passer-by gave Simone a ride and they gave chase. Hackworth crashed into a utility pole at West 52nd Street. Simone confronted him and shot him after he said Hackworth reached into the truck. No gun was recovered from the victim or the truck.

May 28, 2008: Two officers shot and killed Darrell Workman Jr., 31, during a raid at a suspected drug house on East 47th Street. The officers said they shot Workman after he reached into his sweatshirt for a loaded .45-caliber semi-automatic handgun. One officer fired a shotgun three times; another officer fired a handgun. Undercover detectives said they had bought cocaine from Workman twice the previous week. They found cocaine and marijuana hidden in the house after the shooting.

March 1, 2008: Officers shot and killed Johnny Nelson, 24, who was wielding a knife and had threatened to kill his mother. Police went to a house on Dudley Avenue after one of Nelson's relatives called for help. Nelson refused orders to drop his knife, and when he rushed at the officers two of them fired, striking him with three bullets.

Jan. 13, 2008: An officer shot Raymond Herring, 40, after he said the suspect pointed a gun at him. Herring was celebrating his birthday at Skeet's VSP Lounge on East 93rd Street when a pistol he had tucked in his waistband accidently fired. No one was hit. Security guards escorted Herring outside just as police were driving past the bar, and Herring ran. Several officers confronted Herring, who raised his gun. One of the officers fired nine shots, striking him once in the chest. He survived.

Dec. 29, 2007: An off-duty officer shot a robbery suspect, foiling his getaway. The officer had entered a convenience story on West 47th Street when he saw a masked man with a gun demanding that two clerks give him money. The officer exited the store and waited in the parking lot. After the robber refused to drop his gun, the officer fired several shots, hitting the man in the hand.

May 8, 2007: Officers shot to death Aaron Steele, 23, after they stopped his car for playing loud music and expired license plates. The officers said they shot Steele after he grabbed a loaded gun and pointed it at them. The officers involved were Patrolman Robert Miles, Detective Todd Staimpel, Detective William Van Verth. The shooting was ruled to be justified.

April 3, 2007: Two officers shot a 22-year-old armed assault suspect while attempting to arrest him. The Cleveland man was struck in the forearm. The officers were responding to complaints from a woman who told them a man had assaulted her and threatened her with a gun on a bus on Superior Avenue. When the officers confronted the suspect and ordered him to surrender he pulled a gun from his waistband, and was shot.

March 23, 2007: An off-duty officer working as a security guard at the Lexington Village apartment complex on East 79th Street, shot and killed Angelo Miller, 17, who was suspected of breaking into cars on the property. John Lundy stopped the teen's car in the parking lot, and fired at least five shots into Miller's car. One bullet struck the teen in the back, killing him. Investigators said Miller accelerated toward Lundy, and the officer fired in self-defense.

Aug. 25, 2006: Patrolmen Robert Nagy and Anthony Lipinski responded to a violent domestic disturbance at a home on West 143rd Street. Charles Pasek Jr., 40, was drunk, screaming and brandishing what the officers feared was a butcher's knife. Pasek's estranged wife said her husband had beaten her and wouldn't allow her to leave. The officers tried to talk Pasek out of the house, but he rushed at the officers. Nagy fired three times, striking Pasek in the arm and chest. He later died. In his hands were a pair of pliers and several kitchen utensils.

March 23, 2006: Three officers shot Hosea Williams, 23, who brandished a .380-caliber semiautomatic handgun. The officers arrived at a convenience store on East 79th Street after a customer saw Williams with a gun, feared he was a robber and called 9-1-1. The officers said they saw Williams leaving the station with a gun in his hand, and accused Williams of firing at them. They returned the gunfire. Five of the bullets struck Williams. He was treated and released.

Dec. 11, 2005: Angelo Ferguson, 18, died from a gunshot in the back after two officers said he tried to run them down with a stolen car on East 141st Street, and they fired at least four shots. Police said Patrolmen Brian Carney and Reginald Beddard approached the car with guns drawn because it had been reported car-jacked. A loaded .40-caliber handgun was found in Ferguson's waistband.

Oct. 20, 2005: Patrolman Alvin Gulley, who served as a driver for then-City Council President Frank Jackson, took action after he saw a man smash the window of a car parked at Memorial Elementary School. Gulley fired at least three gunshots at the suspect, David Crenshaw, 33, who dragged the patrolman before dying of two bullet wounds.

Sept. 30, 2005: As an officer attempted to arrest a suspected drug-dealer at a Blenheim Road apartment building, the suspect, Laray Renshaw, 36, resisted and grappled with Patrolman John Franko. When Renshaw reached for Franko's gun the officer shot Renshaw four times, killing him. Forensic tests confirmed that Renshaw's hand was on the gun when he was shot.

Sept. 23, 2005: Officers chased a truck driven by Graig Wilson, 36, on suspicion of reckless driving, but the suspect refused to pull over. Three times the suspect hit the officers' cruiser on Lorain Avenue near West 117th Street. The officers eventually trapped the suspect's truck in a bank parking lot, and fired their guns at him, striking Wilson in the jaw and neck, wounding him.

Sept. 1, 2005: Two officers fired at least 10 shots, killing 15-year-old Brandon McCloud as they attempted to serve a search warrant at the teen's house in connection with a string of robberies of pizza delivery drivers. Detectives John Kraynik and Philip Habeeb accused the teenager of attacking them with a knife. It was later determined that the shooting was justified, and a grand jury declined to issue indictments.

April 29, 2004: An officer who was pinned against a wall by a suspect's car shot and killed the driver. Officer Reginald Smith attempted to arrest Arlington Wilson Jr., 21, after he ran a red light at East 146th Street and St. Clair Avenue, and fled. The officer was in a driveway on Pepper Avenue when he was struck by the suspect's car. The shooting was ruled to be justified.

March 3, 2004: Eren Beyah, 27, kept a police SWAT team at bay during an 11-hour standoff, refusing to surrender and pointing a 9mm handgun at an officer, shouting, "You're going to have to kill me." SWAT team member William Johnson fired and killed the man, striking him with at least seven bullets to the face, chest and legs. Beyah had been scheduled to appear in court the following week on felony drug charges. He also was wanted in Florida for violating probation on a drug-related conviction.

Jan. 18, 2004: Officers were called to East 154th Street to check reports of drug activity when they approached a car with two men inside. Brandon Robinson, 24, ran and was tackled by officer Timothy Clark. As they wrestled on the ground, Robinson punched the officer and tried to grab his gun. Clark shot him in the chest, killing him.

Nov. 14, 2003: Two patrolmen pulled over Stanley Strnad's car for a traffic violation at East 185th Street in the North Collinwood neighborhood. As the officers approached, Strnad , 26, drove away. Patrolmen Daniel Jopek and Martin Rudin chased Strnad but stopped when he left the city. Strnad later returned and crashed into a car at East 156th and Parkgrove Avenue. Strnad ran, and Jopek chased him, firing five shots, with four hitting Strnad in the back and killing him. Jopek said he feared Strnad was going to pull a weapon from his waistband. Strnad was unarmed. A grand jury declined to indict Jopek, although he was disciplined for improper use of force. The family sued Jopek, but he prevailed in a federal jury trial. Jopek and Rudin also were involved in the fatal shooting of a man in 2002.

Oct. 23, 2003: Undercover detectives were trying to arrest a man suspected of raping three young girls when the suspect reached into his pants. The detectives said they suspected the man was reaching for a gun. Detective Bruce Garner fired, striking Edwin Diaz, 34, in the chest. The suspect was unarmed. Diaz almost died, but recovered. He pleaded guilty to three counts of rape, felonious assault on a police officer and failure to comply. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison and labeled a sexual predator.

Aug. 13, 2003: Officers were working a stolen car sting when they received an electronic alert that someone had broken into and stolen a "bait car" equipped with a tracking device, remote gas shut-off and door locks. When officers attempted to pull over the car, the driver, Jimmie Jones, 38, pulled into a grassy lot near East 93rd Street. As the officers approached the car, Jones put the car in reverse and nearly hit an officer, who fired into the car, striking Jones in the thigh.

July 29, 2003: Officers responded to a report of a domestic disturbance on West 98th Street at Madison Avenue. When the officers arrived they spotted suspect, Kyle Banks, 25, and ordered him to stop. Banks fired a shot in the air and ran. The officers chased him and exchanged gunfire with the suspect. Patrolman Mickey Mondock was struck in the hip, and Banks was hit twice in the groin.

Jan. 9, 2003: Michael Ciacchi, 38, was the subject of an area-wide manhunt after he fled a traffic stop in Valley View. Officers in Cleveland located Ciacchi about three hours later at a home on Stickney Avenue in the Old Brooklyn neighborhood, but the suspect refused to surrender. Ciacchi waved a gun -- later found to be unloaded -- and an officer ordered him to drop it or he would shoot him. Ciacchi replied: "Go ahead and do it." When Ciacchi pointed the gun at the officers they fired. The suspect died in a hail of bullets that struck him in the chest and legs. One of the shooters was Officer James Simone. Ciacchi's family said he suffered from depression. Officials ruled the shooting "suicide by cop," and justified.

Aug. 27, 2002: Two patrolmen were chasing a stolen car when the driver crashed near West 85th Street. The officers parked their cruiser behind the stolen car and approached. But the driver threw the car into reverse and pinned Patrolman Robert Taylor, who fired into the stolen car, striking passenger Ricardo Mason, 16, in the back and killing him. Patrolman Matthew Baeppler also fired his gun, striking the driver, Malcolm Hoyle, 16, in the face. A grand jury declined to indict the officers, but the city paid $1 million to settle a federal wrongful death suit brought by Mason's mother. Hoyle recovered from his injuries and was convicted of involuntary manslaughter for Ricardo's death.

Aug. 8, 2002: Two officers picked up Jeffrey Hopkins, 23, following reports he had been fighting on Detroit Avenue. But when the officers drove Hopkins to Public Square and offered to let him go, Hopkins -- high on PCP -- turned on the officers and attacked, grabbing officer Michael Schmitt's service revolver and shooting him. Schmitt's partner, Donald Finau, shot Hopkins four times in the back, and once each in the head and arm, killing him. Schmitt recovered from his wound.

June 28, 2002: Patrolman James Toomey was off-duty when he suspected someone was trying to break into his home. When the officer discovered the man in his back yard and confronted him, the suspect -- Joseph Pearly Finley, 20 -- attacked him with a metal pipe. Toomey fired 15 shots at Finley, striking him in the chest, abdomen, back, arms and legs. A grand jury declined to indict the officer.

June 6, 2002: Patrolmen Daniel Jopek and Martin Rudin stopped a car driven by Stephon Keith Moore, 39, who was drunk, on Lake Shore Boulevard. The officers accused Moore of driving his car at them and putting their lives at risk, so they shot and killed him with a gunshot to the back. The shooting was ruled justified. Moore's family, however, said the victim was backing up his car and posed no threat to the officers. They filed a wrongful death lawsuit, and the city agreed to pay $250,000 in damages and attorney's fees.

Jan. 26, 2002: Two officers responded to a report of a man breaking into a car on Lee Avenue. When they attempted to question the suspect, Craig Bickerstaff, 27, he ran. The officers caught him and struggled with the 318-pound Bickerstaff, and hit him on the head with a baton. When Bickerstaff -- the son of a former Cleveland police officer -- pulled out a gun, the officers shot and killed him.

Jan. 15, 2002: Two plain-clothes narcotics officers witnessed what they suspected was a drug deal at East 176th Street, and followed the suspect's car to a fast food restaurant parking lot near the intersection of Harvard and Lee roads. When the officers approached the car, the driver, Jermaine Sanders, 25, drove forward and hit officer John Patton. The other officer, Walter Thomas, and Patton fired several shots at the suspect. He died at a hospital a short time later. Officials ruled the shooting justified. Thomas also shot and killed a man in 2011.

Dec. 6, 2001: Patrolman Edward Lentz was working a security detail outside the home of then-Mayor Jane Campbell near Shaker Square when he noticed a Chevrolet station wagon driving erratically. The car was stolen, and 12-year-old Lorenzo Locklear was behind the wheel.

Lentz said he ordered the boy to stop, but he drove the car into him, causing Lentz to roll onto the hood. Lentz fired 14 shots, striking Lorenzo in the shoulder, foot and groin. A juvenile court judge later found Lorenzo delinquent. Lentz was charged with felonious assault, but a grand jury declined to indict him. Lentz filed a racial discrimination suit against the city for punishing him by assigning him to work in the police gymnasium. Lorenzo is black; Lentz is white. A federal court jury awarded him $800,000 in damages.

Aug. 22, 2001: Officers said they saw Daniel Harris, 47, dealing drugs from his car on East 131st Street. When they approached, Harris sped away, crashing into another car and leading the officers on a 10-minute chase. Harris eventually jumped from his car and ran, with the officers in pursuit. One of the officers caught Harris, who grabbed his service revolver and refused to let go. The other officer shot Harris to death.

June 19, 2001: Trevon Williams, 6, was sitting on a front porch with his aunt watching as detectives chased a drug suspect on East 149th Street in Collinwood when shots rang out. A 9-mm bullet struck the boy, piercing several of his internal organs. Detective Michael Meyer said his semiautomatic handgun fired accidentally during a scuffle with the suspect, Jimmy Nelson, and city officials cleared the detective of any wrongdoing. Trevon almost died, but later recovered and returned to school. Trevon's mother sued the city and Meyer, accusing him of recklessness and inadequate training. The city paid $1.9 million to settle the lawsuit.

Dec. 2, 2000: Officers patrolling the West Bank of the Flats spotted a stolen SUV and pursued the car, driven by Charles Gadison, 22, of Shaker Heights. The officers attempted to block the driver, and ordered him to stop. But instead he drove at them at a high rate of speed. Officers Keith Campbell and Michael Bentley jumped out of the way and fired at the SUV. The SUV later barreled into another cruiser, injuring patrolmen Francis Santell and David Siefer. The suspect later rammed a train-crossing sign and was caught. Gadison had non-fatal bullet wounds to the chin and chest.

Oct. 18, 2000: Officers responded to reports of several shots being fired in the area of East 153rd Street and Sunview Avenue, where they were confronted by a man with a gun. Several shots were exchanged, and Marsean Scott, 19, fell to the ground, dead. Neither of the officers was wounded.