Advertisement Report: Deputy hit knife-wielding man with all 5 shots David Scott Hampton killed by deputy Share Copy Link Copy

A report released by the Greenville County Sheriff’s Office found that a deputy who shot and killed a man followed all policies and procedures.The report also said that Master Deputy Steven Epps fired five shots, all of which hit David Scott Hampton, 56, as he held a knife on a woman and made stabbing motions as her as he and the woman sat in a car that deputies had pulled over.The shooting happened on May 21 near the intersection of Abney and Draper streets.Deputies said that they responded to a call at 2:30 p.m. about a man and a woman who were driving in the area while the man held the woman at knifepoint.Deputies said they spotted the vehicle and pulled it over at about 3 p.m. The woman was driving the car, deputies said. They said the man refused to surrender the weapon, and when he made a move toward the woman, a deputy fired several shots. One of the shots hit the man in the upper torso, killing him.Master Deputy Laura Campbell said, "When he was given commands to drop the knife, he turned his entire body and the knife toward the female. And at that point, we're not going to wait for him to put that against her throat. The Sheriff's Office mission is to protect life and property, and at this point it was her life."As Epps fired at Hampton, other deputies were able to get the woman out the driver’s side door.The report said that Epps will return to work Wednesday.Friend says Hampton was at 'end of his rope'Dion Thompson, who arrived at the scene shortly after the shooting, told News 4 that he was a mutual friend of Hampton's.Thompson said Hampton's parole officer had been looking for him recently.Thompson said, "(Hampton) was at the end of his rope. He couldn’t find work. He was using the stigma of being an ex-con, which is a bunch of bull. He just didn't care."Thompson told News 4 that Hampton recently said, “Life ain’t worth it no more. I don’t care about anything. I’m rogue. I’ll die before I’ll go back to prison.”