The Reno Police Department was justified in shooting a homicide suspect after he shot a police officer in February 2017, the Washoe County District Attorney’s Office said.

The decision released Friday said police had a legitimate concern that

, 25, a gang member and convicted felon, was a threat to others when they shot him on Kietzke Lane near Moana Lane.

Navarro-Garcia was a suspect in a Feb. 24, 2017, a homicide near Smithridge Drive and Filbert Road. Reno police detectives put him under surveillance and found him near his mother’s home on Smithridge Park Drive, the district attorney’s report said.

They saw a car Navarro-Garcia was driving with an AK-47-style rifle in a passenger seat, a gun that would later be tied to the homicide. Navarro-Garcia, his mother and two juveniles left the scene in his mother’s car to go to the Washoe County jail to put money on the account of Navarro-Garcia’s girlfriend. Police decided to pull over the car before they reached the car with the semi-automatic rifle.

Officers Rand Hutson and Mike Harding pulled over the vehicle with four people inside on Kietzke Lane. It turns out Navarro-Garcia and Erick Bernal, 17, had handguns. Navarro-Garcia’s mother said she expected trouble as police approached the car and she started praying, the report said. Harding approached the driver’s side and ordered Bernal out of the car. He refused, reached for a gun in his waistband and then Harding and Bernal began struggling.

Hutson opened the rear passenger door and Navarro-Garcia pulled out a Glock .45-caliber and shot Hutson in the lower torso, the report said. Hutson fell to the ground saying, “He shot me!” Harding pulled out his gun and shot at Navarro-Garcia, who stood up holding a gun, the report said.

RPD Sgt. Andy Carter arrived and was heading towards the vehicle as the shooting happened. Carter also opened fire as Navarro-Garcia tried running away across Kietzke Lane. The suspect was hit and died after being taken to the hospital. Bernal ran away and was arrested a few days later in Portola. He told police he had met Navarro-Garcia only a month earlier and the two had been awake for a few days partying with methamphetamine.

Hutson required multiple surgeries, the report said. The city of Reno honored him with a Purple Heart in February.