Mark Treinen

USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin

RIB MOUNTAIN - A Marathon County deputy was justified in fatally shooting a man who was holding a hostage at gunpoint March 2 in Rib Mountain, the county's top prosecutor concluded.

Marathon County District Attorney Theresa Wetzsteon issued the ruling Friday, ending an investigation into the death of 33-year-old John J. Hall of Wausau.

Investigators learned that Hall had been high on methamphetamine and acting erratically in the hours before he took another man hostage and held police at bay for two and a half hours, Wetzsteon said in a written statement. The hostage was not named in her report.

Hall was sitting on the driver's-side floor of a pickup truck pointing a 9mm pistol at the other man, who was standing outside the vehicle with his arms raised when Sheriff's Deputy Megan Sowinski pulled up in her squad car shortly after 1 a.m., according to Wetzsteon. Hall refused Sowinski's repeated orders to drop the gun, and after backup officers arrived he also grabbed a .243-caliber rifle, the district attorney said.

Officers tried to negotiate with Hall, who intermittently pointed the handgun at his hostage and waved it toward police. Meanwhile, Deputy Brandon Stroik, a trained military sniper who served a year in Iraq, set up in a field about 45 yards from Hall with a rifle and waited for a safe shot, according to investigators' description of the incident.

RELATED: Officer in Lincoln County shooting was Deputy of Year

DOCUMENTS: Read the reports on the shooting of John J. Hall

Police delivered a cellphone to Hall, who had an animated conversation with someone while he continued to look around and wave the guns toward his hostage and officers, Wetzsteon's report said.

At one point Hall dropped the handgun but ignored an officer's orders to leave it on the ground. Hall picked up the pistol, then stood up outside the truck and lowered the rifle toward the officers. That's when Stroik decided the hostage was out of his line of fire and shot Hall in the head, killing him, the district attorney said.

"After careful consideration of all the available evidence, I have concluded that Deputy Brandon Stroik was justified in his use of lethal force during this incident," Wetzsteon wrote in a news release.

Tests showed the methamphetamine level in Hall's blood was more than twice the level that has been found in past meth abusers "who exhibited violent and irrational behavior," according to the Madison lab that examined his body. "High doses of methamphetamine can also elicit restlessness, confusion, hallucinations, circulatory collapse and convulsions," the lab reported, according to Wetzsteon.

Hall's handgun and rifle both were loaded, although only the rifle had a round in the chamber, the report said.

Investigators interviewed Hall's wife of seven years, who told them he had been acting increasingly paranoid and erratic since a car crash in November. The night before the shooting, he became agitated and began to cut wiring in his home in Wausau because he feared he was under surveillance, according to investigation reports.

According to investigators:

At one point Hall armed himself the night of March 1 and, while sitting in his basement, the rifle discharged and fired a round through a couch. Hall then ordered the other man to go with him in his truck. The two pulled over at the intersection of Swan Avenue and Morning Glory Lane in Rib Mountain, so that the hostage could move a bag of sand and remove other items from the back of the pickup to prove to Hall that no one was hiding there.

That's when Sowinski saw the men, while she was on patrol, and approached at 1:04 a.m. The ensuing standoff lasted until Stroik shot Hall at 3:29 a.m., according to Wetzsteon.

"Deputy Sowinski and the Crisis Negotiation Team members along with all the officers who responded to this incident acted with great restraint, demonstrating respect for the life of the civilian hostage and Hall," the district attorney wrote.

The March 2 incident was among seven fatal shootings involving officers in north central Wisconsin in less than a year. The most recent was March 22, when Everest Metro Police Detective Jason Weiland was among four people shot and killed by a gunman who was then fatally shot by other officers.