A San Pedro man in and out of jail on drug possession and auto theft cases was charged Wednesday with murder for allegedly leading police on a chase and killing an innocent motorist who crossed into his path, prosecutors said.

Zachary Thomas Alexander, 22, who was out on bail in another case early Monday when he crashed into Charles Chunlei Wang, 56, of Torrance, was charged with felony counts of murder, fleeing a pursuing peace officer’s motor vehicle causing death and driving or taking a vehicle without consent after a prior conviction, the District Attorney’s Office said.

The heavily tattooed Alexander appeared briefly in Torrance court Wednesday, but his arraignment was postponed to March 22. Judge Thomas Sokolov ordered him held on more than $2 million bail.

The crash at Carson Street and Maple Avenue occurred about 1:45 a.m. Monday shortly after the Toyota Camry that Alexander was driving registered as stolen when it passed an automated license plate reader. The reader notified police officers, who spotted the car pulling into a gas station near Sepulveda Boulevard and Cabrillo Avenue, police said.

Officers tried to stop the car, but the Camry sped north and slammed into Wang’s car. Wang, pronounced dead at the scene, owned a business on Carson Street east of Crenshaw Boulevard.

Alexander and his passenger, Deborah Ornelas, 29, also of San Pedro, suffered minor injuries and were booked into jail.

Alexander was a regular in local jails, having been arrested numerous times. Detectives in the Harbor Area knew him especially well.

Two weeks ago, prosecutors charged Alexander in Torrance Superior Court with seven counts of auto theft and a single count of taking a car without permission. He was out on $35,000 bail awaiting a March 22 court date that now will add the murder case.

Prosecutors included allegations that Alexander was convicted twice in 2016 for driving or taking a vehicle without consent and for possession for sale of methamphetamine. In 2014, he was convicted of receiving stolen property and, in 2013, sale or transportation of methamphetamine.

If convicted as charged, Alexander faces 33 years to life in state prison.

Prosecutors declined to file charges on Ornelas and she was released.