A South Bend grandfather of eight was killed in a collision with a stolen car in February of last year.

Today brought a chance for family members to speak about the sentencing of the man who confessed to causing the crash.

On one hand, there was 40 year old James Morrison of Niles, who had been traveling about 100 miles per hour as he fled police in a stolen car on a day on which he admitted shooting heroin.

On the other hand, there was 62 year old Andre Northern, Sr. who was working on becoming a deacon at his church and working at his job on his day off to earn extra cash for a planned plane trip to see his youngest granddaughter for the first time.

“He had tickets. He had plans, know what I’m saying, said Damien Northern.

“He was flying down to Florida with me,” said Northern’s youngest son Dion. “We were going to see his (Damien’s) daughter for the christening, his daughter was being christened.”

Today, Northern’s sons came from as far away as Florida and Georgia to speak about the sentencing of the man who criminally caused the accident that killed their father.

“You know our father died as a result of a person who was scared to go back to prison, running for over three miles over 100 miles an hour while somebody was pursuing him,” said Damien Northern, who is a former police officer who now teaches at a facility for juveniles accused of crimes.

Damien Northern feels that local police were party responsible for a crash that produced so much force, his father died of a torn aorta.

“We don't think that James Morrison is the only person should be sitting in a courtroom being held accountable for Andrew Northern not being here anymore,” said Damien Northern.

The crash occurred on February 21st, 2017 on SR 933 near Darden in Clay Township.

Morrison was not sentenced after today’s sentencing hearing—as is usually the case.

The judge is dealing with some late breaking and last minute legal issues that must be settled first. The sentencing proceedings will continue April 9th.

Today in court, James Morrison did say he was "truly sorry" for the pain he had caused and said he had "no excuses" for his actions.