A vandalism suspect who authorities say was armed with a knife and throwing rocks at a deputy was shot and killed Wednesday night, March 8, after he advanced on the deputy, sheriff’s officials say.

The deputy responded to the 15800 block of Wood Road just before 4 p.m. Wednesday in response to a report of “felony vandalism,” said sheriff’s department spokesman Deputy Mike Vasquez.

When the deputy arrived, he was confronted by a man who was armed with a knife and throwing rocks at the deputy, Vasquez said.

After a rock struck the deputy, the suspect “advanced toward the deputy,” according to a sheriff’s department news release. After the man refused the deputy’s commands to drop the knife, the deputy shot him.

The deputy “immediately administered life-saving measures and called for medical assistance,” the news release said. The man was taken by ambulance to a hospital where he later died.

Joshua Wells lives next door to the house where deputies were investigating but said he has never met his neighbors. He said he was at the Circle K gas station on Van Buren and Wood when he heard two gunshots.

He and his friend Lamont Bell, who works at the Circle K, said they went over later to check out what had happened and saw paramedics loading a man on a gurney into an ambulance.

Shortly after the shooting, a multitude of Riverside County sheriff’s deputies responded to the area. Martin Luther King High School is just to the south, and a large shopping center is a couple of blocks west.

Wood Road was shut down to traffic between Van Buren and Silo Street, said Riverside city police, who have jurisdiction over some of that area. Sheriff’s officials advised people to stay away. The street remained closed at 10 p.m.; Vasquez said it would likely remain closed through the evening.

Among the sheriff’s personnel were a forensics team and homicide detectives. The sheriff’s Central Homicide Unit investigates all deputy-involved shootings, fatal or not.

A Riverside County Sheriff’s deputy shot and killed a man who was armed with a metal object Saturday night, March 4, in Cabazon. That deputy has also been placed on administrative leave.

This story is developing. Check back for updates.

Staff writer Brian Rokos contributed to this report.

#OfficerInvolvedShooting in #Woodcrest – No threat to public – More details to follow — Media Info Bureau (@RSOmedia) March 9, 2017

http://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js

Attn:Media #OfficerInvolvedShooting – Updates released as they become available. Avoid Wood Rd. between Orrick Rd & Van Buren Blvd — Media Info Bureau (@RSOmedia) March 9, 2017

http://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js