Virginia State Police are investigating after a man died while in custody of Roanoke police Wednesday night.

Two Roanoke officers responding to a disorder call shortly after 10 p.m. found two women and a man inside a home in the 900 block of 21st Street Northwest, according to a news release from state police. The man was lying motionless on the floor but was conscious.

State police spokesman Corinne Geller declined to comment on what the man’s condition was when police found him on the floor of the residence.

The women told police that the man had threatened and assaulted them after coming into the home. They said they fought back against the man, whom they did not know, according to the release.

Officers identified the man as 30-year-old Clifton Antwone Watts of Roanoke. When police placed Watts under arrest, he resisted being handcuffed but eventually was placed in the back of a patrol car, the release said.

He was left in the vehicle while police continued to investigate the incident, according to the release. Geller said state police’s preliminary investigation indicates that at least one officer was with Watts at all times after he was placed in custody.

Sometime later, an officer noticed that Watts was not breathing. Police took Watts out of the car and began administering CPR until Roanoke Fire-EMS responded to the scene.

Watts was taken to Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital, where he died Wednesday night, according to the release.

Watts’ body has been taken to the medical examiner’s office for an autopsy.

The two women at the residence received minor injuries from the assault and refused medical treatment.

The officers who responded to the incident have been placed on administrative assignment, in keeping with department policy, according to the release.

Roanoke Police Chief Tim Jones requested that state police investigate Watts’ death, according to the release.

Anyone with information about the incident can contact state police at 375-9547 or bci-salem@vsp.virginia.gov.