Police shot and killed a homeless man they said chased and attempted to attack families at a Huntington Beach sports complex.

HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (KABC) -- A 29-year-old man was shot and killed by police at a sports complex in Huntington Beach Thursday night after witnesses said the man tried attacking families.

Authorities said the officer-involved shooting occurred at the Huntington Beach Sports Complex in the 18100 block of Goldenwest Street at about 7:30 p.m.

Jose Sanchez said he was coaching two groups of kids - 11-year-old boys and 14-year-old girls - when he saw the man chasing people and threatening them with a weapon bat and a broken bottle.

"At that point I told my girls to run as fast as they can, jump over the fence because he's running toward us," Sanchez recalled.

Sanchez said a police officer showed up, warning to man to drop the item or he would be shot. He said the man did not comply.

The families were told to leave the area, according to witnesses. Police said they received several calls from frightened families as they were heading to the complex.

Officers opened fire after the man ran into the bleachers where a woman was frozen in fear.

"It looked like the guy was going to go and do something to her, so the cops shot him about three times," Sanchez said. "He was still moving around, so then they shot him about three or four more times."

The man was later identified as the Orange County coroner's office as Steven Shiltz of Huntington Beach. People who knew Shiltz said he was homeless and struggling with drug and alcohol abuse.

Police said there were several families in the bleachers not far from when the shooting occurred.

Many of the children and parents were shaken up by the incident, but officials said everyone would be OK.

"We feel very fortunate that no one else was injured. It was a very chaotic scene," Huntington Beach police Chief Rob Handy said.

The Orange County Sheriff's Department said homicide detectives would be conducting an investigation into the shooting.

Anyone who witnessed the incident and left the area before being interviewed by law enforcement was urged to call the Orange County Sheriff's Department at (714) 647-7000.