By Carolyn Gaeta

(LOUISVILLE, December 6th, 2002, 5 p.m.) -- After responding to a cry for help, police say a detective fatally shot a handcuffed man 12 times because he wouldn't drop his weapon.

James Taylor, 50, was shot multiple times at 6:02 p.m. Thursday in his one-room apartment in downtown Louisville. Taylor, a convicted felon, was pronounced dead at 6:14 p.m. by Jefferson County deputy coroner Rick Siclari.

Louisville Police detective Michael O'Neil was placed on routine administrative leave pending an investigation, Police Chief Greg Smith said.

Detective Brian Luckett was also placed on administrative leave. He was with O'Neil when they responded to the disturbance at Taylor's apartment. Luckett did not fire a weapon, Smith said at a news conference Friday morning.

O'Neil and Luckett, dressed in plain clothes, were searching for a witness in an unrelated case at a residence next door to Taylor's apartment. After hearing a commotion, the officers walked into the apartment complex, heard a woman cry for help and saw Taylor's door ajar, Smith said.

Two women and two men, along with Taylor, were in the apartment.

"He (Taylor) was in a very agitated, very aggressive state. He was ready to fight," Smith said, adding that O'Neil and Luckett saw crack pipes in the room upon their entry.

The officers then handcuffed Taylor and set him in a chair to calm him down. One of the women then told the officers that Taylor had a knife.

O'Neil and Luckett then told Taylor to stand up. After resisting, O'Neil pulled him up by his arm. That's when it's believed that Taylor pulled a knife with a 3-inch blade from his pocket, Smith said.

"He then began slashing from his hip," Smith said.

O'Neil ordered Taylor to drop the knife, but instead the victim lunged at O'Neil. O'Neil fired his gun one time, Smith said.

The bullet did not stop the victim. He continued pursuing O'Neil, backing him into a corner of the room, Smith said. O'Neil responded by shooting his gun 11 more times -- the gun held 16 bullets.

Smith said as Taylor lunged at O'Neil, Luckett tried to take him down by kicking him.

Taylor, who served 10 years in prison after being convicted of manslaughter in 1984 in Louisville, was believed to have been under the influence of alcohol and drugs at the time of the shooting, according to witness statements.

"Witnesses said Taylor had been drinking vodka and smoking crack all day," Smith said. "Put both of those together and you have a very dangerous situation."

The statements of all four witnesses were consistent with the detectives stories, Smith said.

Along with the manslaughter conviction, Taylor had been charged with alcohol intoxication, probation violations and drug offenses. Taylor was released from a second prison term in June 2001 after being convicted of cocaine possession, according to Debbie Linnig Michals, spokeswoman for Jefferson County Circuit Court.

Both O'Neil, 27, and Luckett, 25, joined LPD in 1999. This is the first time that either officer has been put on administrative leave for shooting incidents, Smith said.

Neighbors say there were always a lot of people coming and going in the apartment. One neighbor says she's "been getting nervous because there are so many different people that I've been seeing in and out and stuff, so that's been making me nervous, even without the shooting."

The shooting is under investigation.

Thursday night's shooting was the fourth police shooting in our area this year. In April, a man was shot after a standoff with police. After police tried to serve a warrant on Terry Hines at his apartment on Nob Hill Lane, Hines refused to be arrested and threatened them.

A SWAT team sent in a canine unit and Hines stabbed the dog with a butcher knife. That's when an officer shot him.

In May, Jeffersonville police shot and killed a burglar at the Axmann Industries factory. When they arrived, they found Jason Huff loading materials into a pickup truck. When officers told him to stop, Huff took off, running over the police dog. Officer Glenn Jackson shot Huff in the head -- in self-defense.

In August, Louisville police shot and killed a man they thought was about to fire a rifle at them. It was later learned that Marshall Marbly was carrying only a BB gun. Police officers used non-lethal weapons to try to take Marbly in custody until he raised the weapon.

And in February, Bullitt County deputies shot and killed a man who fired at them after the deputies thought he was going to kill himself.

Online Reporter: Carolyn Gaeta