Jim Schultz

Record Searchlight

The man shot and killed Sunday by an off-duty California Highway Patrol officer has been identified by the Shasta County Coroner's office as Christopher Delano Rosa of Redding. He was 23.

Rosa was fatally shot by a still unidentified CHP officer, now on paid administrative leave, after allegedly breaking into his home, Redding Police have said.

According to electronic Superior Court records, Rosa has a criminal record that includes arrests for possession of a controlled substance, possession of concentrated cannabis, keeping a place for the sale of a controlled substance, cultivating marijuana and receiving stolen property.

With police remaining tight-lipped Tuesday as detectives continue to investigate the shooting, Sunday's fatal incident began just after 3 a.m. when police were called to a home in the 800 block of Country Oak Drive in north Redding for a reported break-in.

Fatal shooting:: Police continue to probe fatal shooting by CHP officer

Officers searched the area for a suspect after the homeowner said someone was trying to break in through a back door.

Shortly afterward, emergency dispatchers received a call that someone was trying to kick in the front door at a home in the 400 block of Country Oak Drive. Police said the intruder was shot by the homeowner in that second house. That homeowner is the CHP officer.

Officers arrived on the scene and found the off-duty CHP officer inside of his home and holding the suspect at gunpoint, according to statement from Redding Police Sgt. Jon Poletski.

Police said the man had been shot and was taken to a local hospital. He died from his injuries.

The identity of the off-duty CHP officer is not being released due to the ongoing investigation, said Poletski.

More recent top stories:

• Simpson's accreditation at risk

Commission says it must get strategic and financial plans in order in two years or it will lose accreditation....

• Carl's Jr./Hardees CEO Andy Puzder, Trump's pick for Labor, retires

Andy Puzder withdrew his nomination to be Labor Secretary under President Trump....

• Redding council signs off on downtown food pod idea 3-2

The Redding City Council narrowly approved a contract to establish a food pod with food trucks outside in Library Park....

• Rules Committee to choreograph House vote to kill Obamacare

The House Rules Committee is scheduled to meet Wednesday to set the rules for Thursday’s floor debate....

• Man takes lie detector test in missing woman's case

It’s been five months since Nicole Santos has seen her mother, Stacey Smart....

• Liberty Christian School will stay open

The school will operate starting next year at CrossPointe Community Church....