A man connected to a stolen vehicle was shot dead Tuesday afternoon in Westminster by police officers assigned to an interagency, Denver-area auto-theft task force.

Police say the shooting happened about 1 p.m. in the area of 112th Avenue and Stuart Street. That’s just north of the Legacy Ridge Golf Course.

The suspect was shot after he brandished and pointed a weapon at officers who confronted him, investigators say. The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. Authorities declined to say what kind of weapon the suspect was holding.

No officers were hurt.

There were four officers involved in the shooting, including two Colorado State Patrol troopers, an officer from Wheat Ridge and an officer from Lakewood. All four fired at the suspect.

Authorities say there were several witnesses and that the 17th Judicial District Critical Incident Team will be investigating the case.

Trooper Josh Lewis, a Colorado State Patrol spokesman, said the officers were tracking a stolen vehicle at the time of the shooting. Lewis said he didn’t know if the officers were trying to arrest the man when the shooting happened.

Officers involved in shooting are part of metro auto theft task force. Colorado State Patrol PIO en route to scene. #OIS — Westminster Police (@WestminsterPD) March 14, 2017

David Moore, who lives in the area, says he heard a series of gunshots — possibly as many as 10.

“About a minute later I saw all kinds of police cars,” he said.

Moore said the shooting appeared to have happened in a park. A swarm of officers responded to the scene.

Television news helicopter images from the scene showed police tape surrounding a large area of a park off 112th Avenue.

We are currently investigating an OIS. Media may stage at 112th Ave and Stuart St. — Westminster Police (@WestminsterPD) March 14, 2017

Cotton Creek Elementary School has been placed on lockout for the remainder of Tuesday’s school day, according to the Adams 12 School District. A district spokesman said the school was on lockdown for about 10 minutes after the shooting.

Parents must pick up children from the school during dismissal at 2:30 p.m., police say, as there will be no bus service or daycare.

Further details on the shooting, including the name of the slain suspect, were not immediately released.