J.D. Gallop

FLORIDA TODAY

Correction: This article has been changed. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is not involved in the investigation.

__________

It was supposed to be a quiet Sunday for residents at the Palms Estates. Many in the two-story Cape Canaveral apartment complex were settling in for the night.

Then came the rattling boom of gunshots.

Residents reported hearing nearly half a dozen rounds fired off at about 8:20 p.m..

“I kept hearing the helicopters circling,” said Kathy Horner, a widow who lives across the street from the complex with her 7-year-old granddaughter.

An armed, shirtless 19-year-old Trevor Allen Brice Gingras had tumbled in the back of Building G off Caroline Street, with at least one shot to the head from one of the Brevard County sheriff’s deputies responding to what became a frantic scene.

The deputy who shot the man — 25-year veteran Lt. Michael Green — was not injured.

Monday afternoon, Brevard County sheriff’s investigators were working to find out what brought Gingras to the apartment complex.

The night before, Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey said the Gingras attempted to rob one of the residents at gunpoint moments before deputies arrived behind the darkened beach side apartment complex. They came upon him a short distance from the attempted heist, investigators said.

"The suspect turned on our deputies with a firearm ... he is deceased," said Ivey in a televised news conference at the scene less than two hours after the shooting.

Ivey said Lt. Green felt his life was in danger.

Deputy-involved shooting in Cape Canaveral leaves one dead

For Horner, the shooting was an unsettling interruption of the ordinarily quiet area.

“There’s a lot of seniors who live here. It’s really a nice place to be,” she said, describing the bike rides she takes with her granddaughter and strolls to the nearby library.

But Monday morning, signs of the deadly confrontation were nearby.

A twisted mound of yellow crime scene tape was left in a nearby trash receptacle. A blue paramedic’s glove was left lying in the mulch just a few feet from the remnants of congealed blood washed away by firefighters.

The violence of the moment could be seen in the blood spatter found on the stairs at Palms Estates and in a first-floor hallway.

One resident described how he was watching television when he heard 10 loud booms. Just behind his back door was the mortally wounded robbery suspect, lying shirtless on his side. A lone bullet casing was found on the pavement.

A crime scene sticker marked ‘D’ indicated where one of the bullets apparently struck the apartment wall.

It was not immediately known if the suspect fired his weapon.

Homicide probe continues after shooting near Cocoa

Lt. Green was placed on administrative leave with pay, which is protocol for such cases.

The shooting happened the same day as two other deputy-involved shootings in central Florida. One was in Gifford in Indian River County, just south of Sebastian, where a woman was killed and a deputy injured in an early morning drug raid. The other occurred in Volusia County, where officers in DeLand were forced to fatally shoot a man Sunday evening after he refused to drop his gun following a high-speed chase.

Horner said that while the Brevard shooting was disturbing, she would not let it worry her.

"The Sheriff's Office does a very good job in watching over (us)." she said, standing in a shopping complex adjacent to the entrance of the complex.

Contact Gallop at 321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com and Twitter at @JDGallop