Teresa Stepzinski

Jacksonville police say a gunman who fired a shot at officers during a SWAT standoff and died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound Friday is the suspect who robbed a Wells Fargo branch in the Lakeshore neighborhood.

Terrence Randolph King, 29, wore a unique Batman-style mask and brandished a semi-automatic handgun during the holdup at at the bank, 4206 San Juan Ave., about 9:15 a.m. About 20 minutes later police converged on a house in the 7500 block of Patrice Court after developing information the robber might be holed up inside, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office.

Police safely got a woman, later identified as King’s girlfriend, and four children out of the home, Ron Lendvay, Sheriff’s Office director of Investigations and Homeland Security said Saturday.

Lendvay said King remained inside with a gun. When police attempted to contact him by phone, King, who appeared agitated opened the door, shouted obscenities and stepped partially outside then fired a single shot at officers before shutting the door.

A short time later, King opened the door again. Perceiving him as a threat, an officer using his department-issued rifle fired six shots at King, who shut the door again, Lendvay said.

Lendvay said King never responded to attempts by a police negotiator to contact him by phone or louspeakers. However, King called family members “and was apologetic and expressed remorse for a bad decision he had made earlier that morning,” Lendvay said.

“He also noted to one of these folks in the calls that he intended to kill himself,” Lendvay said.

When continued efforts by police to contact him failed, Sheriff’s Office commanders authorized officers to force open the front door and go inside to check on King. Officers found him lying on the floor inside the front of the home, Lendvay said.

“When medics checked him, he was found to be deceased from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head,” Lendvay said. A handgun was found lying on his body, he said.

The handgun appears to match the description of the firearm used during the banki robbery, and also to fire at officers at the house, he said.

Police recovered the Batman-style mask as well as the money stolen during the holdup after getting a search warrant for King’s car, which was parked at the home, Lendvay said.

Lendvay said an autopsy showed that the bullet wound to King’s right hip didn’t appear as if it would have been fatal, and would not have incapacitated him,” he said

“There was one other gunshot wound noted that was a single gunshot wound to the head that likely would have been fatal,” Lendvay said. Preliminary investigation shows the fatal bullet was fired by King, a convicted felon, with his own gun, he said.

Lendvay said King was shot and wounded by a 22-year Sheriff’s Office veteran detective, R.L. Johnson, who is assigned to the Criminal Apprehension Unit and is a member of the SWAT team. Johnson was placed on administrative leave with pay in keeping with the Sheriff’s Office normal protocals, he said.

Teresa Stepzinski: (904) 359-4075