After a 29-year-old man raised a gun toward a St. Paul police officer in March, the officer told investigators “he reluctantly held off from shooting” to “give him every opportunity” to drop the gun, according to a decision released by the Ramsey County attorney’s office Friday not to charge two officers who fatally shot him.

But Cordale Handy again pointed the gun at the officer, and the officers shot him.

Before the encounter with officers in Dayton’s Bluff, Handy had aimed the gun at his girlfriend and fired 16 shots inside her apartment in the 700 block of East Sixth Street, the memo said of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension’s investigation. Handy was under the influence of drugs, an autopsy found.

Handy’s girlfriend and a friend told officers that Handy’s gun was not loaded, and pleaded with them not to shoot him.

Yet the Ramsey County attorney’s office said in the memo that there was “no way (the women) or the officers could be sure that he did not reload his gun.”

“While it is true that information was presented to the officers that Mr. Handy’s gun may have been unloaded, it would be unreasonable for anyone to expect and incredibly dangerous for the officers to presume that was true under these facts and circumstances,” County Attorney John Choi wrote in a message, in which he said he agreed with prosecutors who determined the officers’ use of force was justified.

Handy’s mother filed a federal lawsuit in April against St. Paul and the officers, Mikko Norman and Nathaniel Younce, saying her son was unjustly shot.

“For months, we have been working to get information from the city’s attorneys regarding the BCA investigation into this tragic case,” Andrew Stroth, the attorney representing Handy’s mother, said Friday. “We are in the process of reviewing the memorandum from the Ramsey County attorney’s office and materials from the BCA. Based on eyewitness accounts and other relevant information, it is our perspective that Cordale Handy did not present a threat and was unjustifiably shot and killed by the St. Paul police officers.”

Police Chief Todd Axtell said in a statement Friday that what happened on March 15 “is a tragedy.”

“My heart goes out to the Handy family, who has lost a loved one,” he said. “I also feel for the officers who ran towards danger, had a stolen gun pointed at them and were forced to take action. They did not choose the situation; the situation chose them. And their lives have been forever changed.

“The investigation revealed evidence that shows the violence, terror and danger endured by those in the apartment building and neighborhood during the minutes that preceded the incident,” Axtell continued. “Sixteen shots were fired inside the apartment. Lives were put at risk. Officers showed incredible restraint, giving Mr. Handy multiple opportunities to drop his weapon. And even then, he made the decision to point his gun at them. While the investigation clearly shows that our officers did everything they could to pursue a different outcome, I take no solace in the fact that our officers were put in such a dangerous position and a man lost his life.”

CORDALE HANDY FIRES SHOTS IN THE APARTMENT

The memo summarizing the case, written by the first assistant Ramsey County attorney and the criminal division director to Choi, gives the following account:

Early on March 15, Handy’s girlfriend — Markeeta Johnson-Blakney — used her cellphone to take a 14-minute video inside her apartment. The video, which investigators obtained, begins with Handy holding a black pistol with an extended ammunition magazine in one hand and a cellphone in the other.

“Mr. Handy is seen furtively looking around the apartment” and appeared to be suspicious that someone was hiding in the unit, though Johnson-Blakney “repeatedly assured” him no one else was there, the memo said.

Handy’s autopsy showed he had a bath salt-like drug in his system, which is known as “Molly” and “is considered a designer drug … that is a psychoactive substance with stimulant effects. Agitation and erratic behavior has been reported with the use of this drug,” according to the memo. Police also found methamphetamine in the apartment.

Johnson-Blakney yelled at Handy not to shoot and tried to get him to put down the gun. Handy screamed, “They’re gonna kill me!!,” the memo said.

Handy started shooting, leaving damage in the apartment’s walls and sofa, and also bullet holes in the walls of two other apartments.

Handy was barred from possessing firearms because he was convicted of felony drug possession in 2006 and felony attempted vehicle hijacking with a firearm in 2007, the memo said. At the time of his death, he was awaiting trial after being charged with possession of a firearm by an ineligible person in 2016.

OFFICERS SAY HE POINTED GUN AT THEM TWICE

Police were notified about the situation on March 15 when another resident in the apartment building called 911 at 2:18 a.m., saying he heard a female screaming for help and that it sounded like a male “was beating the hell out of her.”

Johnson-Blakney also called 911.

“I know you have been alerted to an incident,” she told a 911 operator. “… There have been shots fired … the gun is unloaded. Please do not shoot him …. He has taken drugs. He is a little out of his mind right now. He has a weapon but (expletive) it is not loaded. For sure. Could you please let them know.”

When Officers Norman and Younce arrived at the apartment building at 2:21 a.m., they noticed Johnson-Blakney and a friend of hers running after Handy. The friend told Younce that Johnson-Blakney had told her Handy’s gun was unloaded.

St. Paul officers had not yet begun wearing body cameras when Handy was killed — they were rolled out in the department in September — but surveillance video outside a nearby community center showed Handy walking while holding a pistol in his hand. The video does not show Handy being shot because he had moved out of the camera’s view.

Younce reported that he yelled to Handy, “Police, stop, drop the gun, get on the ground!,” the memo said. The officers saw Handy “appear to unintentionally ‘flop’ down onto his buttocks and lay on his back on the curb,” the memo continued. The officers then saw Handy sit up and briefly raise the pistol toward Norman before lowering it.

Both officers again ordered Handy to drop the gun, but he raised it. Norman reported that Handy “pointed (the gun) right at me … and I thought he was gonna shoot me,” the memo said. Johnson-Blakeny was about 15 yards behind the officer. Younce told investigators he was concerned for the safety of Norman, himself, Handy’s girlfriend and friend, and others in the area.

At 2:27 a.m., Norman and Younce fired at Handy, who was struck seven times, according to the autopsy.

FYI