Joe Malinconico

Paterson Press

PATERSON — A grand jury has determined that a Paterson police officer’s use of deadly force was justified when he fatally shot an emotionally disturbed man on Main Street last March, authorities said.

The man who was killed, 37-year-old Ramon Andrade, was wielding a knife as he lunged at a Paterson police officer, authorities said. The officer’s partner then fired three shots at Andrade, hitting him twice, according to a statement issued by Passaic County Prosecutor Camelia Valdes.

“The investigation revealed that Mr. Andrade refused to comply with police commands to show them his hands,” the prosecutor said in her statement.

The prosecutor’s statement identified the officer who fired the shots as Frank Toledo, who has worked for the Paterson Police Department since December 2014. The prosecutor’s statement did not name the other officer.

“While the officers attempted to engage Mr. Andrade, he removed a knife from his pocket and lunged at Officer Toledo’s partner.”

School threats:Video didn't contain an immediate threat to Nutley schools, police say

Public safety:What keeps North Jersey police chiefs up at night?

Education:Paterson schools make big gains, as graduation rates rise across NJ

Paterson police officers fired their weapons five times in 2016 and 2017 in incidents in which people were injured, wounded or killed.

In three cases, including Andrade's death, grand juries have deemed the shootings justified. In one instance, a grand jury indicted the officer, Dante Gordon, for firing his weapon while off-duty in downtown Paterson, injuring two men with fragments or debris from the gunshot. In the fifth case — a fatal shooting on Fulton Place last April — authorities have not yet announced any grand jury findings.

Andrade's family said he was wounded in the jaw and chest. He died from his wounds two weeks after the incident.

"Our family is devastated and disappointed with what happened with the grand jury," said Jessica Esquilin, Andrade's sister. "But I'm not surprised. When it comes to grand juries and the police, it's hard for them to say the police did anything wrong."

The family has hired an attorney, who is gathering information about the shooting, the sister said. "We don't know all the facts yet," Esquilin said. "We have so many unanswered questions."

Esquilin pointed out that the two police officers at the scene reacted differently from each other. "One shot; one didn't," she said. "Why is that?"

Andrade family members said they were not allowed to visit him at the hospital during the final two weeks of his life because he was in a police-involved shooting.

Investigators found a knife at the scene, which was near the corner of Levine Street. The officers were responding after someone observed Andrade “acting erratically while holding a knife,” the prosecutor said.

Esquilin said last year that he suffered from mental illness, but that he was not violent. Born in the Bronx, Andrade spent most of his life in Paterson, according to his sister. He had attended Eastside High School but had difficulty holding a job because of his mental issues, she said.

Esquilin said Andrade clearly was going through one of his mental illness attacks when the incident occurred.

"He needed his medication, and instead of getting help he got shot multiple times," she said.

Paterson Police Director Jerry Speziale said the Prosecutor’s Office had conducted a “thorough review” of the case and the shooting was justified.

“We stand behind the outcome,” Speziale said.