A woman wanted for a string of gun-related crimes was killed Saturday afternoon when an officer intentionally ran over her in south Tulsa after she exchanged gunfire with police following a vehicular chase.

Madison Sueann Dickson, 21, was pronounced dead at 3:07 p.m., Tulsa homicide Sgt. Dave Walker said.

Officers roped off the scene in the 8900 block of South Harvard Avenue outside of Jenks East Elementary School.

Police had been searching for Dickson because of her alleged involvement in a spree of gun-related crimes over the past week.

Officers found Dickson at an apartment at 81st Street and Sheridan Road on Saturday, police spokesman Leland Ashley said. Dickson then got into a pickup as a passenger and fled from the officers, Ashley said.

Dickson eventually bailed out of the truck and presented a handgun, Ashley said, which was when at least two officers shot at her. She fired gunshots at officers, Ashley said.

During the altercation, she was run over by a patrol cruiser, Ashley said, noting police desperately were trying to stop her because of the threat she represented. He said no one was struck by gunfire.

“She had every opportunity to stop and turn herself in,” he said.

The truck’s driver, a female, was being questioned by police. Ashley said they are unsure of the woman’s involvement at this time.

Dickson had been identified as the suspect in a number of crimes, including the shooting of a man Thursday night that resulted in him crashing his car and being hospitalized in critical condition.

Earlier Thursday, Tulsa County prosecutors had filed charges against Dickson for crimes from last weekend.

In the latest crime before Saturday, officers responded to a traffic collision involving a shooting victim shortly before 9 p.m. Thursday near 18th Street and Peoria Avenue. An investigation showed that after being shot, a man drove a car south on Peoria before colliding with a small SUV.

Investigators said Dickson may have been a passenger in the man’s car at some point before the shooting.

The man was taken to a hospital in critical condition. Walker said Friday that the man was expected to recover but was heavily sedated and unable to speak to officers since arriving at the hospital.

Prosecutors had charged Dickson with shooting with intent to kill, two counts of assault with a dangerous weapon, unauthorized use of a vehicle, attempted larceny and discharging a firearm in a public place for incidents March 11 and 12, according to court records.

Dickson was allegedly involved in a March 11 theft from a Best Buy store on 71st Street near U.S. 169. She discharged a firearm during that incident, according to a news release from Walker.

On March 12, Dickson allegedly shot a woman at a Walgreens store at 7111 S. Lewis Ave. According to Walker, Dickson and an unidentified male approached a customer in her car outside the store and demanded that she exit. Dickson allegedly shot her in the arm after she became too frightened to move, and Dickson and the man then fled.

Police say Dickson also was among a group of females who later that day were discovered attempting to steal a license plate from a vehicle parked at the AMC Southroads 20 movie theater near 41st Street and Yale Avenue.

An employee said a woman matching Dickson’s description pointed a gun.