Maranda Faris

USA TODAY NETWORK – Tennessee

ALAMO — A New Orleans native has died after a Crockett County deputy shot him Thursday afternoon on the exit ramp of Highway 412 and Highway 88 in Alamo.

The man, identified as 36-year-old Rodney James Hess, had blocked traffic on the Highway 412 East ramp by parking his car sideways. When deputies responded due to traffic being blocked, Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman Josh DeVine said Hess became "erratic."

"A Crockett County deputy arrived after drivers were obviously not able to get where they wanted to go," DeVine said. "He then determined that he needed backup."

The additional officers told TBI agents that Hess was refusing their commands and making erratic statements.

"Preliminary information indicates Hess attempted to use his vehicle, his SUV, to strike the officers at least twice," DeVine said.

WARNING: The following video contains content some viewers might find disturbing.

At least one Crockett County deputy shot Hess through the front windshield of Hess' car, hitting him. Hess was able to drive his car across the Highway 88 overpass before he crashed in a ditch off Highway 412 near the opposite exit ramp.

"He subsequently died at The Med after being airlifted," DeVine said.

The incident began around 2:15 p.m., and no deputies were injured.

It is unknown why Hess was in Alamo, DeVine said.

"We're working to develop what his possible connections were to this area," he said.

DeVine said between four and six Crockett County Sheriff's Office deputies responded to the scene. Multiple officers were around Hess' vehicle during the altercation.

It is unknown if the Alamo Police Department responded to assist the Sheriff's Office.

DeVine said it was unknown if there were any other weapons in the car, or if Hess may have been under the influence when he blocked the exit ramp.

"We're working to examine what he might have said, what he might have done. The work at this point is preliminary," he said.

The roadway was still blocked at 9 p.m. while TBI agents continued their investigation.

TBI does not identify officers involved in shootings.

Reach Maranda at (731) 425-9657 or at mfaris2@jacksonsun.com. Follow her on Twitter: @MarandaFaris