Three members of a drug task force acted in self-defense when they shot and killed Jermaine Claybrooks, who was armed with a gun as he sat in a car, according to a decision from Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm released Monday.

Claybrooks, 32, was shot March 16 in the 4900 block of N. 19th Place during an encounter with West Allis and Milwaukee police and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration who were investigating him for possible drug dealing.

Two West Allis detectives and a DEA agent fired shots at Claybrooks after seeing him point a gun at a Milwaukee police officer, according to a letter from Chisholm.

Three Milwaukee police officers also fired their guns during the encounter and they declined to give a formal statement to investigators. Those officers remain on administrative duty pending a decision by the district attorney and the conclusion of an internal investigation, said Sgt. Tim Gauerke, department spokesman.

The family of Claybrooks is concerned about that lack of cooperation, said attorney Walter Stern, who represents them.

"I reviewed the evidence and I see these unanswered questions," Stern said.

The shooting was investigated by the Milwaukee County Suburban Investigations Team led by Wauwatosa police. The team did not include officers from either the West Allis or Milwaukee police departments. The team's reports were summarized by Chisholm and released Monday.

According to those records:

The High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Area task force was investigating Claybrooks for heroin dealing. Their plan was to arrest Claybrooks when he showed up to sell 150 grams of heroin to a confidential informant by blocking Claybrooks' car from the front and rear with police vehicles. Because the officers were undercover, there were not cameras on their uniforms or vehicles.

When the officers saw Claybrooks drive up, they began the maneuver. Claybrooks apparently realized what was going on and tried to flee, but crashed into a tree. The impact was not severe enough to cause his airbags to deploy.

RELATED:Suspected drug dealer killed in confrontation with officers on Milwaukee's north side

RELATED:Probe into man killed by drug task force sent to prosecutors

RELATED:Family, friends of Milwaukee man fatally shot by officers earlier this year want answers

Several witnesses said they heard officers telling Claybrooks to turn off the engine and show his hands. That is contrary to what one witness, Nate Beverly, told reporters in March. Beverly said Claybrooks never had a chance to surrender before officers began shooting.

Multiple officers tried to remove him from the vehicle and used different tools to break the heavily-tinted windows of the car, which was stuck in reverse with the tires spinning.

DEA Agent Jim Krueger said he could see into the car through one of the holes in the window. He said he saw Claybrooks pointing a gun at a Milwaukee police officer's head. Krueger said that's when he fired a half dozen rounds at Claybrooks.

West Allis Detectives Dan DiTorrice and Todd Kurtz heard an officer yelling that Claybrooks had a gun and then heard other officers yell repeatedly: "He's pointing a gun at you!"

DiTorrice and Kurtz heard gunshots and saw a Milwaukee officer fall back. The two detectives fired several shots into the car.

The Milwaukee officer, John Schott, told a supervisor he believed Claybrooks had fired a gun at him. The supervisor, Lt. James MacGillis, said Claybrooks was found to have a "pistol in his right hand on his lap with his finger on the trigger."

Investigators also found 148 grams of heroin, 70 grams of marijuana and 50 oxycodone pills inside the car, along with $30,000. The Milwaukee County medical examiner's office determined Claybrooks was shot 10 times.

Since his death, relatives and friends of Claybrooks have organized demonstrations and had expressed frustration with the lack of clarity regarding his death. Stern said the family still has questions about the reliability of the drug informant, how Claybrooks crashed his car and other aspects of the investigation.

The family plans to take the case to federal criminal and civil court, Stern said.