Authorities have now released the name of a man fatally shot Thursday night after he pointed a gun at Birmingham police.

The Shelby County Coroner's Office identified the slain suspect as Christopher Baird. He was 37. He was from Vestavia Hills, though it wasn't immediately clear where he currently lived.

Court records show he pleaded guilty to a felony burglary charge in 2010 and received a one-year suspended sentence. Police in several area cities said they had dealings with him over the years, but nothing that led to serious criminal charges. Efforts to reach his family for comment were unsuccessful.

Birmingham police were called to the Days Inn at 6:25 p.m. after several motel guests reported a suspicious person in the parking lot with a gun, said Birmingham police spokesman Lt. Sean Edwards. The man, police said, was knocking on motel room doors and was armed.

Officers arrived on the scene and engaged the suspect, now identified as Baird. "We knew he had a firearm and he was given commands and really didn't comply with those commands,'' Edwards said.

Police said Friday morning that Baird lowered the gun, but then raised again and that is when an officer fired. Baird collapsed on the sidewalk outside a first-floor room. The room is located on the south side of the motel.

A gun was recovered from near his body, authorities said. He was pronounced dead on the scene.

Edwards said the officer who fired the fatal shots was taken to Birmingham police headquarters downtown for debriefing, which is standard procedure. He wasn't injured, nor were any other officers. That officer is now on administrative leave, which is standard operating procedure in officer-involved shootings.

"I'm sure the officer did everything he needed to do, everything he's trained to do,'' Edwards said. "It's becoming part of the job. It's a very dangerous job, but somebody has got to do it."

He said there's always concern when there is an officer-involved shooting. "We're all one big family " he said.

This is the second fatal officer-involved shooting by Birmingham police this year. The State Bureau of Investigation has taken over the probe, per policy.