REDWOOD CITY — A 43-year-old man shot by a self-inflicted bullet and police gunfire after threatening his estranged wife with a handgun at her workplace has been identified as Robert Lee Eichen, of Redwood City, the San Mateo County Coroner’s Office said Wednesday.

Officers went to the 400 block of Penobscot Drive at 2:15 p.m. Tuesday after receiving a “frantic” 911 call from a 44-year-old woman who said her husband was chasing her in the parking lot of her workplace with a handgun, Deputy Chief Gary Kirby said Tuesday.

The woman, who had filed for a divorce earlier this month, told dispatchers that she had a restraining order against her husband and that he owned multiple firearms.

Eichen wanted to talk to his wife and stopped his pickup truck in the middle of the parking lot, Kirby said. When she didn’t want to talk, he reportedly retrieved a handgun from his vehicle. He threatened her and fired at least one round into the air before officers arrived, Kirby said.

When the police showed up, the man took off running. He stopped on the 200 block of Saginaw Way. Officers tried to convince him to surrender but he reportedly was waving around a handgun when an officer opened fire and shot him in the chest just as he put the gun in his mouth and fired.

San Mateo County District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe said the gun was not in the man’s mouth when the officer opened fire. It is unknown which of the shots were fatal.

Officers who responded to the scene didn’t know it at the time, but there had been other incidents involving Eichen, Kirby said. On March 9, officers arrested him following a “low-level” domestic dispute and the next day issued an emergency restraining order. Six firearms that were registered to Eichen, who did not have a criminal history, were also confiscated at the time.

Eichen, who was living at a nearby motel, had obtained another handgun from a family member, according to the District Attorney’s Office.

Another confrontation took place on March 14, and the wife was granted an extension for the restraining order.

The District Attorney’s Office said it could take up at least eight weeks to investigate the officer-involved shooting. The officer, who has not identified, has been placed on routine paid administrative leave.