Jim Schultz

Record Searchlight

The man shot and killed Friday night by a California Highway Patrol officer who was also injured in the shoot-out following a traffic stop on Interstate 5 was identified Tuesday as an 18-year-old Washington man.

The Tehama County Sheriff's Office identified him as Austin Tyler Macon of Renton, Washington.

Still another man shot in the deadly incident was identified as Teikivahimetani Shane Guilloux-Chevalier, 22, also of Renton, Washington, who remains in critical condition at an area hospital, the Sheriff's Office said.

Macon was the driver of the car while Guilloux-Chevalier was a passenger, Tehama County Sheriff's Lt. Yvette Borden said.

Macon's Facebook page, which has a following of nearly 800 friends, includes numerous posts expressing his distrust in the government and his interest in civil disobedience, some of them featuring the Guy Fawkes mask made famous in the movie "V for Vendetta" and which has become a common feature used to protest tyranny.

"Government isn't the solution," one message posted by him reads. "It's the problem."

"If we could spread love as quickly as we spread hate and negativity, what an amazing world we could live in," another says.

His posts also express a fondness for professional basketball and the "Walking Dead TV" series.

More: One killed, CHP officer injured in shooting on I-5.

More: CHP officer released from hospital.

The name of the CHP officer who was shot in the thigh and released earlier this week from an area hospital has not been released due to department policies, the Sheriff's Office said.

The shootout happened shortly before midnight on Friday when the officer pulled over a white Hyundai sedan north of Hooker Creek Road for speeding, Borden said.

That car was later found to have been stolen from the Las Vegas area.

According to the Sheriff's Office, a be-on-the-lookout advisory had been issued for the stolen car and it warned that its two occupants were considered armed and dangerous. But, deputies said, the CHP officer was unaware of that at the time because the car had stolen license plates on it.

According to the Sheriff's Office, which is handling the investigation, the CHP officer was shot and wounded by Macon as he interviewed him and Guilloux-Chevalier.

Although what happened next is not entirely clear, the CHP officer returned fire, apparently hitting both men and killing Macon.

Backup officers from the CHP arrived, as did deputies with the Tehama County Sheriff's Office and officers from the Red Bluff Police Department, and they removed the wounded CHP officer from the scene.

Those officers may have also exchanged gunfire at the scene, but Borden could not confirm whether those officers might have been the ones who wounded Guilloux-Chevalier

The gun Macon used to shoot the officer was found to have been stolen, deputies said.

Detectives worked throughout the night and remained on scene well into the afternoon on Saturday collecting evidence and reconstructing the events that led to the deadly confrontation.



A two-mile stretch of northbound I-5 was closed between Hooker Creek Road and Sunset Hills Drive for about 12 hours while the investigation was being conducted, Traffic was re-routed onto Hooker Creek Road.

Evidence technicians photographed the car just before it was hauled away by a tow truck. The car, white with a black hood, had a cracked windshield on the driver's side and at least 10 bullet holes were visible in the rear of the car.

More recent top stories:

• Arrest made in purse snatching, kidnapping

A Red Bluff woman was arrested Tuesday on suspicion of kidnapping and robbery after allegedly trying to steal a woman’s purse and driving away with the woman hanging out of the getaway car window, police said....

• Traffic, water among woes for neighbors to proposed Bethel expansion

Neighbors are worried about being stuck in their subdivision because of heavy traffic to proposed church and school....

• Man shot and killed by CHP officer identified

The 18-year-old was from Washington....

• Here's your chance to weigh in on Bethel expansion plan

Residents get their say Tuesday on Bethel Church's proposed campus on Collyer Drive....

• Red Bluff man shot, killed by his child's mother ID'd

Tehama County officials say David Michael Martin, 51, of Red Bluff, was shot to death....

• Suspect dead, four officers on leave in shooting

Guests say the person who was shot was staying at the Motel 6....

• Redding bakery wins 'Cake Wars' for second time

How's that for icing on the cake?...