(From left) Greg Shinn of the Mental Health Association in Tulsa, Tulsa Police Chief Dave Been, Tulsa Police Maj. Robert Turner and Tulsa County Sheriff Stanley Glanz are all involved in forging new programs for area law enforcement officers in working with the mentally ill. The Tulsa County Sheriff's Office is in the middle of a new certification course for deputies, and the Tulsa Police Department's training program will begin in December.

MICHAEL WYKE / Tulsa World

Below: Gerald Brandt was fatally shot by a Tulsa police officer at this apartment complex on Aug. 30 after he reportedly threatened to commit "suicide by cop" and waved a gun toward police and bystanders. The shooting was ruled justified.

DARYL WILSON / Tulsa World file

Police volunteering for new mental health response training

What was going through Gerald Brandt's mind on the day he died will always remain a mystery.

Was he suicidal? Did he want the police to shoot him?

He was holding a gun. He didn't put it down.

A police officer shot him during a short face-off Aug. 30, after he reportedly motioned the gun toward them and several bystanders.

Brandt's girlfriend, Amber Young, told detectives he had talked to her about a TV show where someone committed "suicide by cop," according to a police report.

Brandt had just taken two grams of crank (methamphetamine), Young said. He rambled that he wanted the police to kill him, and he had wanted to crash his vehicle and die before he showed up outside the east Tulsa apartment where he and Young would have their last argument, according to reports.

The Tulsa County District Attorney's Office later ruled that Tulsa Police Officer Josh Martin was justified in fatally shooting Brandt. Several witnesses told police they saw Brandt motion the gun toward officers and the crowd.

He didn't put the gun down.

Could anything have made him do so?

"A lot of it is about intervening earlier -- trying to prevent it from getting to that point," said Michael Brose, executive director of the Mental Health Association in Tulsa. "Once a weapon comes into play, then the mental health aspect has to step back and the law enforcement training and protocol have to come to the forefront of the situation.

"But the idea is to provide the intervention and resources so it never gets to that point."

When and if to use lethal force is one of the most difficult split-second decisions law enforcement officers have to make.

When an armed suspect has a mental illness or is suicidal, however, the decision can be even more difficult -- especially if the officers on the scene don't have much experience working with the mentally ill.

Several fatal officer-involved shootings in the Tulsa area in recent months have raised questions about the level of training and experience state law enforcement agencies have in working with mentally ill or suicidal people.

The questions come at the same time the state's two largest police departments -- Tulsa and Oklahoma City -- are both unveiling drastic changes in how their departments train officers to work with the mentally ill.

In many cases up to this point, "we're asking officers to enter into the picture with a person who has some sort of mental health crisis and not giving them enough training to deal with those situations," Brose said.

"I know there are times when officers are going to be put in a situation where they're going to have to use deadly force. But sometimes the people have mental illnesses -- that's all it is, an illness -- and people just have to get the treatment they need."

Currently, law enforcement officers in Oklahoma are required to take one hour of training per year in working with mentally ill people.

That amount of training "is not enough," said Dave Been, newly appointed Tulsa police chief.

Beginning in December, the Tulsa Police Department will add a new dimension to its officers' training in handling mental illnesses -- a 40-hour class for volunteer mental health response officers.

The program has been developed by the department and local mental health practitioners, some of whom will be training along with the officers, Been said.

Officers will receive more extensive training in how to respond to calls involving people with mental illnesses, and at least one of the mental health response officers will be on duty at all times to respond to mental health crises in the Tulsa area.

At least 100 officers have volunteered for the mental health response officer program so far, Maj. Robert Turner said.

"We're looking to train 20 officers and about five people external of the department" in the first class, Turner said. "It's interactive training using department outsiders from the mental health profession."

The department might offer another one-week course for police officers from suburbs and other smaller towns for a fee, Been said.

The training is a change that the Oklahoma City Police Department similarly is hoping to make in the form of TOPICC -- The Oklahoma Partnership in Creating Change. The Oklahoma City-based group combines the talents of judges, police officers, mental health professionals and civic leaders in highlighting the need for greater sensitivity toward dealing with mentally ill people.

Joe Hight is acting president of TOPICC. He also is managing editor of The Daily Oklahoman newspaper.

Two years ago, Hight's brother, Paul Hight, was fatally shot by Oklahoma City police officers when he pulled a knife on them. Paul Hight was a former Catholic priest with a long history of severe mental illness.

"In my family situation, we just felt like not becoming bitter at the Police Department," Joe Hight said. "It was time to look at solutions to help them in the future."

One of those solutions, Hight believes, must be a higher level of training. He wants to bring police and mental health professionals together more often.

"I think they can work together to rectify problems in working with the mentally ill," he said. "In the past, there was not a great deal of communication between any of these groups. They all have a great deal to tell each other."

Members of TOPICC and Oklahoma City police officers are pointing to the "Memphis model" of dealing with potentially suicidal suspects. Memphis police are drilled extensively on how to deal with mentally ill people.

"Oklahoma City has taken some steps to follow that model," Hight said.

Sometimes just the sight of an armed officer will trigger an agitated reaction from someone who feels backed into a corner.

At the same time, police often are intimidated in their own way because they don't know what to expect from a mentally ill person who may be looking to commit "suicide by cop."

"Officers are put into a very precarious position when it comes to dealing with the mentally ill," Hight said. "In some situations, they don't know what they're getting into."

The Tulsa Police Department considered following the Memphis model, as well, but ultimately decided to create its own program.

"We looked at the Memphis model and found that we provide more hours of training to rookies than Memphis does," Been said.

Turner said Tulsa police rookies receive "in excess of" 40 hours of training in how to handle and process mentally ill people.

The Tulsa Police Department's partnerships with the Mental Health Authority and with Family and Children's Services and its Community Outreach Psychiatric Emergency Services program -- or COPES -- is fairly unique in northeastern Oklahoma, Been said.

"That kind of specialized training can save lives," Brose said. "These are very difficult cases. In general, people with serious mental illnesses in an untreated state require patience and the use of a lot of skills to get them to surrender peacefully."

Brose called "ironic" the contrast between the training and implementation of programs in Oklahoma City and Tulsa and those in nonmetropolitan areas.

In September, a man was killed in Osage County after charging at a deputy with a knife, and another man was killed in Owasso after coming at officers with a sword.

Prosecutors ruled both cases justifiable homicides.

Todd Thomas Hastings, 32, was fatally shot after he confronted Owasso police officers with a samurai sword. Officers Shane Davis and Michael Barnes fired at Hastings after he charged at them.

Prior to the confrontation, Hastings had called a Tulsa social worker, saying he was suicidal.

Owasso Police Chief Jim Green said officers are trained to try to end every armed encounter peacefully.

"We take our time and visit with them and try to get them to drop the weapon if possible," Green said.

One key objective for officers in that situation, the police chief added, is to stay out of a suspect's "critical zone." That strategic distance gives officers time to think if a suspect is moving aggressively.

"When a weapon's drawn, you have no choice but to retreat," he said. "If a suspect charges, you're left without options."

Police try to widen their base of options by taking training in dealing with the mentally ill. Yet, Green noted, that one mandated hour really doesn't cut it.

"We try to put on (additional) training," he said. "It's difficult for officers to ever have enough training."

Osage County Sheriff Russell Cottle said that his deputies receive only one hour of mandated training on dealing with the mentally ill annually. At the same time, he said, deputies learn that attackers some 21 feet away can reach them in only one second.

"If they are advancing toward you with that intent, you've got to react within a split second," Cottle said.

On Sept. 5, Osage County Sheriff's Sgt. Charles Redfern shot and killed Kenneth Lynn Beavers during an altercation at a residence. Beavers charged Redfern with a knife even after the deputy warned him to stop, according to reports.

Redfern fired one shot when Beavers got within 7 feet of him, the bullet striking Beavers in the chest, authorities said.

"In my deputy's case, he almost waited too long," Cottle said.

Cottle lamented his deputies' relative lack of training in dealing with mentally ill people. "Unless an agency has the money and time, it's just something we don't get," he said.

The criteria used by Tulsa police to use lethal force include when it's the only option in defense of self or others, Been said. "This is committed to memory from the very first weeks at the academy," he said. "They really don't have a lot of discretion" when it comes to using lethal force.

"Once the weapon is pointed at any hostages, bystanders or officers, then they must use deadly force," he said.

Tulsa County Sheriff's Office Chief Deputy Brian Edwards said his office hopes to examine the same issues in a four-hour training course that will be completed Dec. 15. The course is required for all certified deputies.

"We're going to be discussing issues such as suicide by cop," Edwards said. "It's a sad deal all around whenever it happens -- for the person, their family and for the officers. And we're trying to do what we can to change that."

Cary Aspinwall, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8369 or via e-mail at cary.aspinwall@tulsaworld.com.

Rod Walton, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8457 or via e-mail at rod.walton@tulsaworld.com.