Peter J. Rauch_horiz.JPG

Peter J. Rauch

(Syracuse police)

LIVERPOOL, N.Y. -- A man accused in a fatal hit-and-run crash in Syracuse this week has been fired from his job as a part-time Liverpool police officer.

Liverpool Police Chief Don Morris today announced the firing of Peter Rauch, a former investigator with the Onondaga County District Attorney's Office.

Rauch was fired Friday "upon the receipt of documents," Morris said in an email. On the day of the crash, Morris said he'd started disciplinary action against Rauch and that it would "be concluded once the LPD receives the investigative reports from the Syracuse PD."

Rauch, 37, was charged Friday with leaving the scene of a fatal accident. He's accused of running over

, 18, at 1:30 a.m. Tuesday on North Salina Street then leaving the scene. Rauch was driving his county-owned car.

Two friends of Rauch's went into the Pastime Athletic Club about a block away after the crash and did not respond to police knocking on the door, according to a source familiar with the investigation.

Rauch's car was found in the parking lot of the club, according to court papers.

Rauch became a part-time Liverpool police officer in 2014. He started working for the DA's office as a process server in 2012.

Rauch joined the Syracuse-area Drug Enforcement Administration task force in 2014. His addition to the task force prompted Syracuse police to drop out. Syracuse Police Chief Frank Fowler voiced concerns that Rauch posed a danger to other officers.

Rauch dropped out of the task force in December.

In 2006, Syracuse police arrested Rauch on a felony charge of brandishing a .380-caliber handgun in an argument with a man at a bar in the Syracuse University area, according to a police report. The charges of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon and second-degree menacing were later dismissed.

District Attorney William Fitzpatrick fired Rauch from his investigator job on Tuesday.

Contact John O'Brien anytime by email, Twitter, or at 315-470-2187.