Natalie Neysa Alund, and Jordan Buie

The Tennessean

A man who shot and injured a Marshall County deputy at a crowded Lewisburg beauty salon on Monday morning is dead, a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman said.

Steven Hopwood was killed during an officer-involved shooting at C.W. Cuts in the 1300 block of South Ellington Parkway, according to TBI spokeswoman Susan Niland.

The initial call came in to dispatch at 10:15 a.m. that a man with an order of protection against him was at the business.

A few minutes later, a subsequent dispatch was made that the man had a gun, Niland said.

A nearby Marshall County Sheriff' deputy responded to that call and exchanged fire with with a suspect inside the business who has been identified as Hopwood. The deputy sustained a non-life-threatening injury and was taken to a hospital in Columbia.

Niland said additional deputies arrived and that Hopwood shot at them as well, although they did not return fire.

Following these exchanges, Niland said, the Lewisburg Police Department's SWAT team entered the business and found Hopwood dead and hostages in a separate room.

No one else was injured.

State and local law enforcement agencies including the TBI, Lewisburg Police and The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives responded to the incident, Niland said.

According to police, Hopwood opened fire on multiple law enforcement agents during the two separate incidents.

"There was an exchange of gunfire when the first deputy responded and then another exchange took place shortly after when additional deputies arrived," she said. "When the swat team arrived, they found him dead."

Witnesses outside the salon described the scene as chaotic saying they heard gunshots and watched women and children running out of the back of the business.

Jessica Blackwell said she was across the street from the hair salon and heard gunshots, followed by someone shouting, "Suspect down."

This is a developing story. Check back for updates.

Reach Natalie Neysa Alund at 615-259-8072 and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.

A previous version of this story misstated the name of the suspect who authorities say opened fire on law enforcement. It should have said Hopwood.