Mike Argento

margento@ydr.com

A York County sheriff's deputy, assisting in serving a warrant, was shot in the face Thursday morning in an exchange of gunfire with a suspect in York.

The bullet struck the deputy in the cheek, said York County Sheriff Richard Keuerleber, who described the wound as "through and through."

The deputy, Michael Lutz, a five-year veteran of the sheriff's office, was in stable condition and was expected to fully recover, Keuerleber said.

The sheriff visited the deputy in York Hospital's intensive care unit and said, "He's in good spirits."

"Mike's a very upbeat guy," Keuerleber said. "He's very cheerful. He was 'thumbs up' when I saw him in the hospital."

UPDATE: Deputy Lutz was released from the hospital Friday afternoon.

Deputy shot in 2005 remembers 'every single detail'

Lutz returned fire and fatally wounded the suspect, identified by the York County Coroner's Office as James Allen Nickol, 38, of no fixed address. Coroner Pam Gay said Nickol had been living in York.

She said Nickol, shot multiple times, was pronounced dead at 11:38 a.m., and his family was notified.

Nickol had been in York County Prison since Feb. 26 on burglary and receiving stolen property charges, a prison records official said. He walked off the prison's work release facility on Wednesday, according to the prison's records department.

York shootings: 'Something we've become accustomed to'

Online court records show that Nickol was charged by Pennsylvania State Police on Wednesday with felony escape.

Thursday's events began shortly before 9 a.m. when two deputies went to a residential area in the 900 block of East Philadelphia Street in search of Nickol, the sheriff said.

Lutz encountered Nickol in the rear of the home, where an exchange of gunfire occurred. Lutz suffered gunshot injuries to his face and thumb.

"We are extremely grateful that Deputy Lutz survived this incident," Keuerleber wrote in a news release. "We are very fortunate and honored to serve every day with true professionals like Deputy Lutz."

Alexis Kaschenbach, who lives across Philadelphia Street from where the shooting occurred, said she was just leaving her house to take her daughter to day care when she spotted two deputies in her breezeway.

They yelled "get out, get out!" she said.

Kaschenbach went behind her house and then heard 10 to 12 gunshots, followed by a scream. "It sounded like they were emptying their guns," she said. "It scared the crap out of me."

Howard Ness, who lives next door to Kaschenbach, said he heard multiple shots fired, and witnessed an EMT performing CPR on who he believed to be the man deputies were looking for.

"This is not a bad neighborhood," he said.

York City Police Chief Wes Kahley said the suspect opened fire as the deputy approached him, and the deputy returned fire. He said the investigation was in its early stages and that police were still collecting evidence to sort out what happened.

"This is a pretty quiet area of the city for this to happen here," Kahley said. "It's another example of the danger our officers face when out on the street doing their jobs."

Keuerleber said, "It's a dangerous job that we do. I'm just glad my guy's going to be OK."

York City Police are handling the investigation into the shooting.

An autopsy for Nickol has been scheduled for Friday morning at Lehigh Valley Hospital.

Staff writer Gordon Rago contributed to this story.

Police investigating

What do sheriff's deputies do?

The county sheriff’s department provides protection for criminal and civil courtrooms, judges and divorce and juvenile masters and assists domestic relations, adult and juvenile probation and other departments in the county Judicial Center.



Deputies also serve subpoenas, protection from abuse orders, and other court documents. They serve warrants and make arrests and transport adult prisoners and juvenile detainees to and from court hearings.



The department also conducts sheriff sales of seized or foreclosed properties.

Deputy wounded in 2005

This isn't the first time a deputy has been wounded in the line of duty.

On March 10, 2005, Deputy Jose “Tony” Curet was shot in the arm as he tried to serve warrants at the home of 19-year-old Hector Manuel Bello Jr.

Curet entered the rowhouse in the 100 block of Willis Lane in York and told Bello, who was coming down the stairs, that he wanted to talk with him.

Bello retreated upstairs, returned with two handguns and opened fire on Curet. A bullet hit the deputy in the arm, and he went down.

Curet retreated and pushed Bello’s mother out of the way. When Bello kept firing, Curet shot and killed the man.

York County deputies in action



In recent years, sheriff’s deputies have been involved in several major incidents in York County:

• In June 2010, Deputy Chad D. Cassel was struck by a van driven by a York woman he was trying to arrest. The woman, Abihail Toro, 44, was wanted on warrants for drug and theft charges out of Lancaster County. Bleeding and injured Cassel called for help, giving police and deputies a detailed description of Toro, who was later arrested.



• In July 2009, Sgt. Jeffrey Barbour responded to a stabbing in York one day, and the next day he organized a group of 12 deputies at a massive fire in the city. A woman flagged down Barbour during the stabbing, which occurred at West Market and Penn streets. Barbour and another deputy maintained a safety perimeter until police arrived. In the fire on the 700 block of Chestnut Street, Barbour recruited his deputies and some nearby residents to drag a hose to the hydrant a block-and-a-half away, he said. Barbour and his deputies also helped control the large crowd that had gathered.



• In January 2008, deputies Holly Arndt and Justin Koller knocked on a door in Lower Windsor Township to serve warrants. They noticed the odor of exhaust and entered the residence. They found an unconscious man and carried him outside. The man was then taken to York Hospital.



• In September 2003, Deputy Mark Chipps shot and killed Raymond Stanley Johnson III after Johnson fired a pellet gun that resembled a 9mm automatic at Deputy David Andress. Chipps was justified in using deadly force, former York County District Attorney Stan Rebert said. Chipps and Andress were flagged down by attorney Ronald Gross and court stenographer Kelly Capitani, who were assaulted by Johnson in the 100 block of North Duke Street.



Sources: Law enforcement and court documents; published reports