Justin Sayers

@_JustinSayers

Before they were shot by police in bucolic Anchorage Tuesday night, Bradley Sheets and his teenage lover Destiny Moneyhun tore through Central Kentucky on a Bonnie-and-Clyde-like crime spree in which police say they stole a truck and a gun from one man and killed another before stealing his vehicle.

Their lives came to a dramatic conclusion in a brushy field in Anchorage — which had not seen a murder in 30 years — where police confronted them and shot both after they pointed a revolver at officers.

Neither died of their wounds, Louisville police said Thursday, but Sheets picked up the gun and fatally shot Moneyhun in the head before turning the weapon on himself.

Nobody seems to know why the couple had ended up in Anchorage, one of Kentucky’s most affluent communities.

"We have no faint idea,” said City Attorney John McGarvey. “And we're getting nowhere."

►'Tight-knit' Anchorage shaken by police shooting

►Community discusses Anchorage police shooting

Shooting spree ends in death

Their binge began Monday when they stole a burgundy-colored truck, debit card and gun from an acquaintance in Sheets' hometown of Glasgow. Fearing the couple might be armed and dangerous, Glasgow Police issued a statewide alert.

Police said the two then headed 60 miles north to Elizabethtown, where they apparently stabbed to death 74-year-old Lewis Hoskinson, who Sheets knew, before stealing his white Nissan.

That slaying was unknown to authorities until Tuesday at 7 p.m., when an Anchorage resident called 911 and reported the vehicle was parked in a field behind the 1500 block of Ridge Court. Police traced the car’s plates and found it belonged to Hoskinson.

Hardin County sheriff’s deputies then found Hoskinson's body in his home. Chief Deputy David Lee said he had been stabbed with a “very large knife.”

Not knowing about that homicide, Anchorage police confronted the couple, who were standing outside Hoskinson’s Nissan by a tree.

That is when Sheets and Moneyhun took turns pointing the gun at Anchorage Officer Brian Taylor and Lt. Mark Hoskins, Louisville Metro Deputy Chief Michael Sullivan said. The two officers fired at them, striking Moneyhun twice and Sheets three times.

They both were pronounced dead at the scene from gunshot wounds to the head. Jefferson County Chief Deputy Coroner Jo-Ann Farmer ruled their deaths a murder-suicide.

"We had no idea that the person we were looking for was dead," Anchorage Police Chief Dean Hayes said. "We didn't know that anyone but the owner of the car was inside of it."

The 'Bonny and Clyde' couple

He was from Glasgow and she from Smith Grove. They had been together for three years and may have gotten married on Valentine's Day — two weeks after she got out of rehab for using marijuana and its synthetic version known as spice.

Richard Moneyhun said he didn't live with his only daughter but spoke with and texted with her every day. He said he was devastated by Destiny's death.

"I never did like him since day one. She just got out of rehab and he popped up over here," he said. "I tried to but you can't keep two adults away from each other. He showed up and the two snuck off."

Destiny didn't have a criminal record or any run-ins with police but the 25-year-old Sheets did.

He was arrested earlier this year after police found him passed out behind the wheel of his truck at an intersection, according to local media reports at the time. He was booked with driving under the influence, possession of synthetic drugs and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Richard Moneyhun said he saw her last month at the Barren County courthouse and was supposed to see her last week. But he wasn't able to meet her because he couldn't get a ride. He called her instead and she sounded upset.

"She just asked me to come over," he said. "She was crying and said, 'I miss you.' "

He told a reporter that he was filing a missing person report on his daughter Wednesday, only to find out she had been killed the day before.

He said a teddy bear that was found next to her body in Anchorage was given to her in 2007 after her grandfather died. A notebook next to it contained her prayers and her drawings.

"I'm gonna remember everything about Destiny,” whom he said was was “smart and loved everything and everybody." "I'm never gonna forget her."

How it happened

On Tuesday, Hardin County Sheriff's Deputy David Lee said Anchorage Police called his county's dispatch at 8:15 p.m. to report a car abandoned near a field behind the 1500 block of Ridge Court. A Hardin deputy was dispatched to check on the owner of the car, Hoskinson, at his house in Elizabethtown.

The deputy peered through the window of the home, where Hoskinson lived alone since his wife died. The deputy saw signs of foul play and called for backup. The deputies entered and discovered the man had been stabbed to death.

Back in Anchorage, officers continued to investigate the car, which was abandoned near a gravel drive that leads to a field behind the back lawns of houses in the bedroom community in eastern Jefferson County.

"This location is the end of a dead end street and in a fairly secluded area," said Louisville Metro Police Lt. Sullivan at a Wednesday news conference. The department's Public Integrity Unit is handling the investigation.

Body camera footage showed a 90-second interaction between officers and the couple. Hoskins — in plain clothes because he was off-duty — ordered the two to get up on their feet and drop their weapons. Taylor took cover before later joining the altercation.

Both officers fired their weapons. Neither was injured.

Hoskins and Taylor were placed on administrative reassignment pending the investigation, leaving the 10-member Anchorage Police Department without 20 percent of its force for the time being.

A half-dozen Louisville-area police cars remained at the shooting scene on Wednesday, along with forensic crews who cordoned off the overgrown field. The bodies of couple remained uncovered. A pile of belongings, including the notebook and the teddy bear, lay near Moneyhun's feet.

"Tight-Knit" Community

The shooting rocked the city in Anchorage, a city with a median household income of $160,000, four times higher than the average of the rest of the state. There were no violent crimes reported in 2015, the most recent year of complete statistics published by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

At Anchorage Public School — one of the most proficient districts in the state — principal Andrew Terry sent a letter to parents, saying the grief counselor would be available to its 350 students to provide support the remainder of the week. The shooting scene was located a half-mile from the K-8 school campus.

Anchorage City Attorney McGarvey said he suspects the city will be shocked, adding that a "big story" was last year when the community complained about resident "Papa John" Schnatter's private helicopter use. So far, he's only seen appreciation from the community for its officers.

"It grew up as a community instead of a subdivision, so it still retains the sense of community," said McGarvey, a Louisville lawyer who was working with the police department Tuesday night

Anchorage citizens said they started a Blue Ribbon Campaign, placing "blue ribbons" on mailboxes to signify support for police officers.

"It is something that doesn't happen in Anchorage, although Anchorage is not immune to violence," Hayes said at the Wednesday news conference. "Our residents have just shown us an outpouring of support."

Information from the Associated Press was used in this article. Reporter Justin Sayers can be reached at jsayers@gannett.com or 502-582-4252. Follow him on Twitter at @_JustinSayers.

► ON THE GO? Download the CJ app for iPhone, Android and iPad

► FOLLOW US: Watch the latest featured video on YouTube