Escambia Deputies Found Justified In Cantonment Fatal Shooting

The State Attorney’s Office has found that two Escambia County Sheriff’s deputies were justified in the shooting death of a man that fired a gun at them in a Cantonment neighborhood earlier this year.

Marcus Antoine Williams, 34, was shot and killed as he struggled with deputies Jake Bandurski and Katrina Ivins on April 1 in the 2500 block of Southern Oaks Drive.

The deputies responded to a domestic violence complaint involving Williams about 6:30 p.m. and a decision was made to arrest Williams. He fled the scene on foot with both deputies in pursuit. They caught up with him in a yard on Deniro Court, where both deputies gave multiple commands for Williams to get on the ground. He did not comply, with Bandurski deploying his taser as Williams ran toward a tree line, according to the State Attorney’s Office. Bandruski was able to push Williams to the ground.

“Mr. Williams continued to struggle with both deputies as they attempted to handcuff him. Deputy Bandurski then fired his taser striking Mr. Williams with the probes but with no obvious affect. Mr. Williams then began standing up and pulled a small silver semi-automatic handgun from his pocket and fired in the direction of the deputies. Both Deputy Bandurski and Deputy Ivins returned fire striking Mr. Williams multiple times. Mr. Williams died as a result of these wounds,” Assistant State Attorney Greg Marcille said in his findings.

A Ruger semi-automatic pistol was later located under Williams’ body.

“Under these facts, Deputy Bandurski and Deputy Ivins were justified in the use of deadly force in this matter. Probable cause existed for the deputies to believe that Mr. Williams posed a threat of serious physical harm when they fired their weapons,” Marcille concluded. “For these reasons, we will take no further action in this matter.”

Pictured: The scene of a fatal deputy-involved shooting April 1 on Deniro Court in Cantonment. NorthEscambia.com photo, click to enlarge.

