Natalie Neysa Alund

USA TODAY NETWORK – Tennessee

Authorities have identified a Hamilton County Sheriff's Office employee shot and killed by Chattanooga police in an overnight shooting as 26-year-old Daniel Hendrix.

According to preliminary information from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, the incident took place about 1:30 a.m. Wednesday at a home in the 300 block of Shawnee Trail.

Authorities say Hendrix was celebrating his birthday off duty with two female friends, both off-duty Chattanooga Police Department officers.

"For reasons still under investigation, Hendrix appears to have changed his demeanor, became agitated, armed himself with a personal firearm, and threatened the two women, who later managed to flee the home during the exchange," the TBI released in a statement shortly after the fatal shooting.

According to the TBI, one of the women called 911.

Two Chattanooga police officers responded to the scene and located Hendrix, still armed, in the backyard of the home. Witnesses reported the officer gave verbal commands for Hendrix to drop his weapon, but he did not comply.

Instead, the statement says, the situation escalated and resulted in one of the two responding officers firing his service weapon at least four times, striking Hendrix, who later died at a hospital.

Agents continue their work to collect any and all relevant evidence, and have located the firearm believed to be the one Hendrix used during the incident.

The case findings will be submitted to the District Attorney General for his further review, the TBI said.

The District Attorney General will decide whether the officer's actions were justified.

The TBI is not releasing the name of the officer who fatally shot Hendrix.

Hamilton County Sheriff Jim Hammond released a statement Wednesday on behalf of Hendrix who he identified as a corrections deputy who had been with the department since July 2013.

“The Hamilton County Sheriff’s Office would like to offer its condolences to the family of our corrections deputy and our prayers are with those involved in this unfortunate incident," the statement reads. "At this time, District Attorney Neal Pinkston has requested the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation to investigate the incident so the HCSO and the CPD may remain neutral.”