(MURRAY, Ky.) -- A Tennessee man pleaded guilty to fleeing and evading police in an incident last year in which a detective fatally wounded the man's passenger.

The shooting happened after what police said was the attempted theft of farm equipment.

Police said Phillip Jackson and two others were in a tractor-trailer that led police on a two-hour chase through five counties.

Jackson, 33, of Paris, Tenn., apologized to Calloway County Circuit Judge Dennis Foust as he also pleaded guilty Wednesday to receiving stolen property over $300 and obscuring the identity of machinery as well as 44 misdemeanor counts. Those charges included 14 counts of reckless driving, nine counts of failing or improperly using a signal, eight counts of disregarding a stop sign, five counts of driving on the wrong side of the road, six speeding charges, one count of failing to yield to a passing vehicle and one count of improper passing.

Foust sentenced Jackson to five years for the three felony counts to run consecutive with a five-year sentence he received earlier. Foust ordered Jackson to pay $1,120 in fines for the misdemeanors.

"I am sorry for what I've done," Jackson said.

Police said the Feb. 14, 2005, chase started in Fulton County and continued through Hickman, Graves and Calloway counties before ending in Henry County, Tenn.

Police said former Calloway County Sheriff's Detective James Wright shot and killed Levi Alexander, 26, of Puryear, Tenn., in Tennessee near the Kentucky state line.

No charges were brought against Wright. However, Jackson was indicted in Tennessee for aggravated assault and evading arrest. In September, Jackson pleaded guilty to those charges and is currently serving a five-year probationary sentence, Null said.

In February, Jackson pleaded guilty in Fulton County to complicity to criminal mischief, complicity to theft by unlawful taking and complicity to wanton endangerment. He received a five-year sentence to run concurrent with the Henry County convictions.

Melissa Johnson, 32, of Murray, pleaded guilty in March in Fulton County to facilitation to criminal mischief, a misdemeanor, and received a 12-month sentence that was conditionally discharged. She received no jail time.

Jackson's lawyer, Dennis Null of Mayfield, has maintained that Jackson couldn't stop for authorities. "Someone was making him drive," Null said.

Calloway County Commonwealth's Attorney Gale Cook said Wednesday that Jackson has been cooperative. She also said she believes he may have been forced to drive. "I do because I have no reason not to," she said.

Copyright 2006 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.