New Media Producer: Kerry Corum

UPDATE: Police confirm two bank robbery suspects from Tennessee shot themselves to death, after leading police on a high-speed chase from Indiana into western Kentucky.

Henderson, Kentucky Police Detective Tony Purcell says an autopsy performed Saturday shows both fatal gunshot wounds had powder residue, and were made at close range, indicating suicide.

Tennessee residents 37-year-old Corey Neal Battles and 41-year-old David Wayne Perry were suspected of robbing an Integra Bank in downtown Evansville.

The pursuit began Friday when Evansville police responded to the reported robbery and saw a van with stolen Indiana license plates flee the scene.

UPDATE: The state medical examiner's office has confirmed that two bank robbery suspects committed suicide in Henderson, after leading police on a high-speed chase.

Henderson Police Detective Tony Purcell says the Tennessee men - 41-year-old David Perry of Dyersburg and 37-year-old Corey Battles of Memphis - had gun shot wounds with powder residue, made at close range. Purcell says that indicates suicide.

The men are accused of robbing an Integra Bank in downtown Evansville, Indiana, before fleeing over the Ohio River into Henderson, as officers closed in on them.

UPDATE: Authorities in Evansville say two bank robbery suspects may have shot themselves to death after a police chase.

Police responded to the robbery Friday and chased a van with stolen plates, driven by 37-year-old Corey Neal Battles of Memphis, Tennnessee, as it fled across an Ohio River bridge into Kentucky. Police say Battles fired at officers, and then they saw a passenger, identified as 41-year-old David Wayne Perry of Dyersburg, Tennessee, shoot himself in the head.

Evansville police chief Brad Hill says Battles stopped the van in Henderson, Kentucky, and pointed a handgun at police. Two officers then shot at Battles, just as he also fired one round himself. One bullet hit Battles in the side of his head, and an autopsy scheduled for Saturday may determine if he shot himself.

Money taken from the Integra Bank branch was recovered, but Hill said he did not know how much was taken.

UPDATE, 5:00PM: Henderson Police release the names of the two men suspected of robbing an Evansville Integra Bank Friday morning. Police say that the two men died after an apparent murder-suicide.

The driver of the getaway vehicle has been identified as Cory Neal Battles, 37, of Memphis, Tennessee. The passenger of the van was David Wayne Perry, 42, of Dyersburgh, Tennessee.

Evansville Police report that the men fired at authorities as they crossed the Ohio River Bridge, heading south into Henderson on Hwy. 41.

After taking the Green Street exit in Henderson, authorities blocked the van's path. Once the van stopped, police say the suspect repeatedly pointed the gun at himself and authorities.

Police fired shots at the driver, but he shot himself in the head.

Initially, the investigation indicates that both men had suffered self-inflicted gun-shot wounds.

UPDATE, 11:30AM: Henderson Police Chief Ed Brady went to work Friday morning, never having been shot at in 35 years of police work.

That streak ended just after 9:30am CDT, when a bank robbery suspect shot out the window in Brady's car while the chief was trying to stop a van carrying two suspects involved in the robbery of the Integra Bank in downtown Evansville.

Both suspects are dead, apparently shooting themselves shortly after the encounter with Chief Brady on U.S. Highway 41. Their names are not yet being released.

When Newswatch asked him about the incident, Brady said that he got in front of the suspects' blue van in an attempt to stop it. "It was pretty calm, really. In my rearview mirror, I saw the passenger lean out the window and I knew he was going to shoot at me. I had the presence of mind to lay down on the seat, and the shot came through, pretty loud, with a lot of glass flying around in my car. I looked in the mirror to see if he was going to shoot at me again, and immediately pulled over to the right and told dispatch that my window had been shot out and that I was disengaging from the chase."

Here's what we can piece together from police reports of the incident:

Evansville police tell Newswatch that about 9:30 a.m. CDT, eyewitnesses saw the two suspects go into the downtown Integra bank branch and come running out a short time later. They say because of the eyewitnesses, they were able to quickly locate the blue van and give chase.

The van went eastbound on the Lloyd Expressway and south on U.S. Highway 41. Once it got into Henderson, the suspect in the passenger's seat began firing out the windows of the van. After the encounter with Brady, they went a short distance further to the Green Street exit, where the van came to a stop.

Police observed both suspects shoot themselves, although there was gunfire exchanged with police. The investigation is underway to determine how the suspects died.

At a short news conference following the chase, Chief Brady said it seemed unusual for bank robbery suspects to take that action. "It seems strange, you know, you rob a bank, you get caught, you go to jail. It's possible we may learn there's something else to this case."

Evansville police say the van had a handicapped license plate that was reported stolen, but they don't know right now whether the van itself was stolen.

Is that all there is, or is there more to this case? Tune to Newswatch at 5 and 6 Friday for complete coverage.

UPDATE: Both suspects are confirmed dead.

UPDATE: The Integra Bank on North Main Street was robbed by two white males who fled in a stolen blue van. A chase ensued, southbound on Highway 41. The suspects shot out the windows at police, then crashed their vehicle. The passenger put a gun to his head and fired. The driver was also shot but the origin of the bullet is still unknown. One suspect is confirmed deceased.

Previously: The Integra Bank on North Main Street was apparently just robbed. Police are on the scene and in a chase, south-bound on Highway 41 crossing into Kentucky, at last report. There are two suspects in the vehicle, described as a blue van with handicap plates. The license plate came back as stolen and a gun was pointed out of the vehicle, according to reports. Shots have been fired.