Friday, April 7, 2017

NORTH AUGUSTA, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) -- A man who investigators said had warrants for his arrest and shot himself in the head near North Augusta Public Safety has died.

Lt. Tim Thornton with North Augusta Public Safety said Rodney Johnson died while receiving treatment at Augusta University Medical Center.

The incident happened around 5:30 p.m. Thursday afternoon. North Augusta Public Safety officers had received word that Johnson was in their parking lot and they said law enforcement had warrants for Johnson.

When officers approached Johnson he turned and walked away. They say officers told him to stop and he walked up Buena Vista near Victoria Lane when he reportedly took a gun from his bag and shot himself in the head.

Law enforcement and EMS responded. Officers say they did not discharge their weapons.

Thursday, April 6, 2017

7:00 p.m.

NORTH AUGUSTA, S.C. (WRW/WAGT) -- North Augusta Department of Public Safety says they were approaching a subject who then shot himself in the head.

They say it happened around 5:30 p.m. this afternoon. They had received word that Rodney Johnson was in their parking lot and they say law enforcement had warrants for Johnson.

When officers approached Johnson he turned and walked away. They say officers told him to stop and he walked up Buena Vista near Victoria Lane. Johnson then pulled a gun out of his bag and shot himself in the head, according to North Augusta Department of Public Safety.

Law enforcement and EMS responded. He was taken to Augusta University Medical Center for treatment.

Law enforcement say they did not discharge their weapons.

No officer was hurt and Johnson is still alive, according to officials.

6:38 p.m.

NORTH AUGUSTA, S.C. (WRDW/WAGT) -- North Augusta Public Safety dispatchers confirm there was a shooting near their headquarters.

Dispatch says officers are out at the scene investigating.

There is very limited information at this time.

We have a crew on their way right now. Stay with News 12/NBC 26 for the latest information.