For the second time this year, Chief Jerry Staniszewski stepped up to a podium at Eau Claire Police headquarters to address an officer-involved shooting – this time, the incident began late-Saturday morning on the city’s west side.

Reading from a prepared statement, Staniszewski said his department received the initial call just before 11 a.m. Saturday. It said a man was acting suspiciously in a hallway of the Westwinds apartment building, located at 2214 Peters Dr. When officers arrived, they found a 25-year-old man in a parking lot wielding a knife.

"The subject refused to drop the knife and again advanced on the officers,” Staniszewski said, during his press conference. “An officer then shot the subject to end the deadly threat."

That officer – being described Saturday night as a veteran of 20 years with Eau Claire Police – fatally shot the suspect. Staniszewski said the decision to shoot came after, what authorities describe as, "less-lethal options" were used, including firing bean bag rounds and using a Taser.

"We always try to control situations with the least amount of force necessary to control the situation,” Staniszewski said. “So, there is a process overview as far as verbalization, less-lethal means, and then deadly force if it's required that goes to that situation. Officers are trained. They know at what level to use force, but we try to resolve them as peacefully as possible."

As Saturday night rolled in, officers from Eau Claire Police were still on the scene, but it's a scene they're unfortunately becoming familiar with. It was just 10 weeks ago on Saturday that the department had to deal with its last officer-involved shooting – outside the Scottish Inns and Suites on W. MacArthur Ave. on Jan. 28.

Staniszewski said with his department handling other officer-involved shootings in recent months, there is heightened awareness. However, he added there is no need for people to be more defensive with everyday actions after this latest incident.

"It's hard to talk about trending involving officer-involved shootings,” he said. “Everyone is so unique. The reality is Eau Claire is a safe place. These are very individual incidents. They have many details. Many factors, which lead to the point where and officer-involved shooting occurs."

Staniszewski said, according to Wisconsin state statutes and department policy, an outside law enforcement agency will investigate. With this case, the La Crosse Police Department will be the lead agency. There is no word on when an autopsy will be performed on the 25-year-old victim.

EAU CLAIRE, Wis. (WEAU) -- A 25-year old man is dead following an officer-involved shooting on Eau Claire's west side.

During a press briefing Saturday afternoon Eau Claire Police Chief Jerry Staniszewski said officers were called to the scene of a parking lot at 2214 Peters Drive before 11 a.m. for a report of a suspicious man in the area.

Staniszewski said officers arrived on scene and located the man, who was carrying a knife. He said officers instructed the man to drop the weapon, but was uncooperative. Police then used a Tazer and non-leathal bean bag rounds to attempt to get the suspect to cooperate, but were unsuccessful.

Staniszewski says a 20-year veteran officer then fired his weapon at the suspect. Officers then attempted life-saving efforts.

The Eau Claire Police Department says the 25-year old man died from his injuries.

No one else was hurt during the incident.

The La Crosse Police Department is investigating the incident, which is standard procedure. The officer involved is also being placed on administrative assignment which is also standard operating procedure.

The name of the officer and suspect involved in the shooting aren't being released at this time.

EAU CLAIRE, Wis. (WEAU) -- Eau Claire police are on the scene of a death investigation on the city's west side.

The incident is just off North Clairemont Ave., south of the interchange with the North Crossing.

Officials have confirmed to WEAU 13 News at least one person is dead. No more information has yet been released.

This is a developing story. We hope to have more information later today on WEAU 13 News.