Last year’s fatal shooting by four police officers of a shotgun-toting man inside a Stater Bros supermarket in Ontario was reviewed by San Bernardino County prosecutors and determined to be justified.

“Based on the facts presented in the reports and the applicable law, the use of deadly force utilized by all four officers was a proper exercise of their right of self-defense and the defense of others and therefore their actions were legally justified,” according to a San Bernardino County district attorney’s news release.

Several Ontario officers responded to the Stater Bros supermarket on Fourth Street about 10:45 p.m. April 9, 2017, after receiving several 911 calls about a man with a shotgun inside the store. After getting information about the man from people leaving the store, the officers formed a team and went inside, according to the report.

Officers could hear the man, later identified as William Hasan Baker, yelling in the southwest corner of the store. He sounded angry and appeared to be yelling at someone, according to the report.

As the officers moved past a produce display, Cpl. Justin Marszalek saw Baker through an open doorway standing in a storage room and holding a shotgun.

“Baker was moving the shotgun around erratically,” according to the report.

Sign up for our breaking news email newsletter: When major local news happens, you will be the first to know. Subscribe here

Marszalek yelled “police” multiple times and ordered Baker to drop the weapon, the report stated. Baker did not comply and either fell or threw himself to the floor. Once down, he pointed the barrel of the shotgun toward the officers.

Officers fired their guns and struck Baker multiple times, according to the report. Officers approached him, and Baker was not moving but still holding the weapon, a Mossberg 12-gauge pump action shotgun.

Officers cleared the store and found no other suspects. There was no one inside the storage room with Baker. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Witnesses later told police Baker was yelling, looked odd and talking gibberish.

Marszalek and the three other officers who fired at Baker — Darryl Brown, Nick Diaz and Daniel Talbot — were all wearing body cameras, which were reviewed.

Baker was initially identified by police as a Los Angeles resident, who had been staying with a friend who was an Ontario resident for two weeks.

At the time of the shooting, police said the shotgun Baker was carrying was loaded and reportedly had been stolen.