A Santa Paula police officer was justified in the 2017 fatal shooting of a 36-year-old man with a knife, authorities said Monday.

The Ventura County District Attorney's Office released a report reviewing the circumstances surrounding Senior Officer Matt Alonzo's shooting of Jose Romero Gonzalez-Rendon on April 9, 2017, as the lawman investigated a 911 call in which a man had a knife.

But among the evidence that was not included in the report was body camera footage from Alonzo. The report states he thought he turned on the camera when he arrived on the scene, but, in fact, he did not.

Santa Paula police Chief Steve McLean said he was pleased that the district attorney's office concluded Alonzo "acted appropriately under the circumstances."

The chief said that after the incident Alonzo was placed on administrative leave and mandated to see a psychologist, which is standard procedure for officers involved in shootings. Alonzo eventually returned to patrol.

On the day of the shooting, Alonzo saw a man described in the 911 call in a driveway north of East Ventura Street. He told investigators Gonzalez-Rendon started running toward him in his patrol vehicle as soon as he spotted the man.

Using his patrol car as cover, Alonzo shot the man as he continued to run at him with a knife despite the officer's commands in English for Gonzalez-Rendon to drop the weapon. Alonzo told investigators he was about 15 to 20 feet away when he fired six gunshots at the man, who was pronounced dead at the scene. An autopsy showed Gonzalez-Rendon had five gunshot wounds.

"Senior Officer Alonzo was justified in firing at Gonzalez-Rendon to end a significant threat of death or serious injury to himself or others," the reports states.

Related:Officer identified in Santa Paula fatal shooting

The Ventura County Sheriff's Office investigated the incident and on Dec. 19, 2017, submitted the results of their effort to the district attorney's office.

However, a surveillance camera near the corner of South Palm Avenue and East Ventura Street captured Gonzalez-Rendon before the incident. About 6:28 a.m., he is shown in an alley on East Ventura Street.

"At that point, the object in Gonzalez-Rendon’s right hand is clearly visible, and it is a large kitchen knife," according to the 39-page report.

The report details Gonzalez-Rendon's "aggressive behavior" leading up to the shooting. The report also shows the man's history of mental health issues and suicide attempts.

He had checked himself into the Hillmont Psychiatric Center in Ventura on Jan. 20, 2017, because he heard voices telling him to kill himself.

He was released a week later and was not considered a risk to himself or others. According to his roommates, that was not the case on the morning he was shot.

About 6 a.m., Gonzalez-Rendon was involved in a physical altercation with his roommates and left the apartment armed with two large kitchen knives. As he left, one of his roommates heard Gonzalez-Rendon say he was going to kill himself.

Both the knives were found with Gonzalez-Rendon's blood on them. One was found just inches from his right hand after he was shot and the other was found a few days later in bushes near the scene.

About 6:15 a.m., a neighbor saw Gonzalez-Rendon involved in a fight with an unidentified male. A short time later, the neighbor saw him covered in blood near East Ventura Street and South Palm Avenue. The neighbor told investigators Gonzalez-Rendon was looking for someone and he was going to kill them.

The third incident, which was ultimately reported to police and led to the shooting, involved Gonzalez-Rendon rushing at a vehicle occupied by a woman and her sister. The woman called 911 twice to make sure officers were aware of a suspicious man with a knife, the report states.

"The aggressive behavior of Gonzalez-Rendon toward Senior Officer Alonzo was consistent with his behavior toward his roommates, an unknown male, and the female anonymous reporting party," according to the report.