Crime & Safety Man Dies of Self-Inflicted Gunshot, Not Killed by Fremont Police: Coroner [UPDATE] Police said the suspect shot fired first at them from the top of a truck in an alley. Reply

FREMONT, CA – UPDATE: TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 3:25 p.m.

Officials with the Alameda County coroner's bureau said today that they have determined that a suspect who died in a confrontation with Fremont police late Sunday night died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head that's consistent with suicide. Fremont police previously said that officers shot at the suspect, who has been identified as 24-year-old Roger Perez of Orinda, after he allegedly fired at them first.

Fremont police spokeswoman Geneva Bosques said the department doesn't have any immediate comment on the coroner's finding but expects to issue a detailed news release within the next 24 hours. Fremont police said the incident began at 11:37 p.m. Sunday when an East Bay Regional Park District police officer stopped a vehicle carrying several occupants near the 7-Eleven store located at 35015 Fremont Blvd.,

according to police.

The park district officer called Fremont police for assistance and one of the car's occupants, later identified as Perez, ran from the car with a gun to the rear of a nearby business, police said. The officers located Perez across the street in an alleyway behind the Walgreens store at 3860 Decoto Road on top of a box truck vehicle and the fatal interaction occurred, police said.

The case is the third fatal shooting involving Fremont officers this year. ALSO SEE:

Man Shot to Death By Fremont Police Officer Identified

2 Officers Injured, 16-Year-Old Girl Dead Following Fremont Police Operation In Hayward ---------------------- UPDATE: TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 1:50 p.m.

A suspect who was fatally shot by Fremont police late Sunday night after he allegedly fired at them first was identified by the Alameda County coroner's bureau today as 24-year-old Roger Perez of Orinda. The incident began at 11:37 p.m. Sunday when an East Bay Regional Park District police officer stopped a vehicle carrying several occupants near the 7-Eleven store located at 35015 Fremont Blvd., according to police. The park district officer called Fremont police for assistance and one of the car's occupants, later identified as Perez, ran from the car with a gun to the rear of a nearby business, police said.

The officers located Perez across the street in an alleyway behind the Walgreens store at 3860 Decoto Road on top of a box truck vehicle, police said. Perez then allegedly fired his weapon at police, prompting the officers to return fire. Medical personnel pronounced Perez dead at the scene, according to police. The incident marks the third fatal shooting involving Fremont officers this year. On Feb. 5, officers fatally shot 45-year-old Fremont resident Nana Adomako after an altercation with an officer responding to a battery call. (Story here: Man Shot to Death By Fremont Police Officer Identified.) Then on March 14, officers fatally shot 16-year-old Elena Mondragon of Antioch, who was later revealed to have been pregnant. Fremont officers had spotted a vehicle in which Mondragon was a passenger in Hayward. The vehicle had been reported stolen and was allegedly involved in multiple armed robberies.

Officers fired at the vehicle after the vehicle's driver struck their patrol car, police said. (Story here: 2 Officers Injured, 16-Year-Old Girl Dead Following Fremont Police Operation In Hayward.) ---------------------------- TUESDAY, APRIL 11, 9:58 a.m. A person who was fatally shot by police late Sunday night in Fremont allegedly fired a gun at police before officers fatally shot him, police said. The incident began at 11:37 p.m. when an East Bay Regional Parks police officer stopped a vehicle carrying several occupants near the 7-Eleven store located at 35015 Fremont Blvd., according to police.