Seaborn Larson

Great Falls Tribune

Michael Dube was in the middle of an ankle surgery early Monday afternoon, a pretty routine operation of which he was nearing completion.

Someone then stepped into the operating room to let him know a neighbor had called: His wife was at the neighbor’s house 11 miles south of Great Falls; she was safe but someone had attacked her with a gun.

“I couldn’t believe it,” Dube, a surgeon with Benefis Health System, told the Tribune on Wednesday.

Adrienne, Dube’s wife for more than 20 years, had received a phone call over the weekend from someone saying he was a former patient of Dube’s and would like to surprise the doctor with a gift of handmade furniture pieces that could be delivered Monday while Dube was at work.

David Delbert Herron was the one who spoke with Adrienne over the phone. He used a different name, but Dube said his wife never would have known who Herron really was – a former patient of Dube’s who had broadcast his anger toward Dube for years and at that time was plotting murder.

More: Suspect blamed doctor for back issues, burned down his home

More: Eyewitness gives account of Dube home invasion

Dube said he has received gifts from former patients: a handmade stained-glass mirror, a bronze statue of a mountain goat and a few other personally crafted things. No one, Dube said, had delivered these gifts to his home before – usually they dropped them off at his office.

Herron arrived Monday around noon and Adrienne pulled her car out of the garage and left the keys in the ignition, expecting Herron’s daughters to arrive with the crafted furniture pieces soon.

Herron told Adrienne he had just learned his daughters had a flat tire, so the two went inside, and she made a pot of coffee over small talk.

“At first he was praising me about the treatment,” Dube said. Herron and Adrienne spoke for more than an hour, until Herron became unsettled, apparently waiting for Dube to get home.

Herron changed his tone, now criticizing the results of back surgeries Dube had performed on him.

“His anger and true feelings and thoughts were starting to come out,” Dube said. “My wife’s a nurse also, and she recognized he was becoming agitated.”

Adrienne told Herron it was time to leave, but agitated as he was, he calmly pulled a sedative pill from his pocket and held it out to her, telling Adrienne “I need you to take this pill, it will make this easier for you.”

Dube said his wife saw Herron pull a handgun from his waistband; it was tucked in the back of his jeans and covered by an untucked flannel shirt.

Dube said his wife has always been an athlete and an avid tennis player. She’s always been keen on staying in shape but just four years ago began training with CrossFit, building her strength and ability in strict regimens. Kind of like a crime fighter would.

Standing in their kitchen, Adrienne hit her assailant’s hand, which held the gun, sending it over the railing and staircase about six feet away. Herron tackled her and tried to drag the her toward the stairs so he could regain control of the weapon, Dube said. Adrienne was able to disengage from Herron before reaching the stairs and sprinted to the front door, about 20 feet away, and bolted outside to her car, which conveniently still was sitting outside with the keys still in the ignition.

“I think he underestimated her,” Dube said.

Adrienne then flew down the Dubes' driveway and to the house next door, where Cliff Rossberg lived. Rossberg called 911 and Dube’s office at the hospital, while Adrienne could see Herron leaving her home from Rossberg’s window.

Dr. Dube, the only family member to have seen Herron before this week, said they hadn’t spoken for years.

More: VIDEO: One dead in home invasion, fire

“I just don’t know why he was angry enough at me to want to kill me and my family,” Dube said.

Herron had spewed hate for Dube since the mid-2000s, which is surprising, because Dube said they had a good relationship. Herron's back problems sprouted from a 1991 fall off the roof of the Chester hospital onto an air conditioner unit. After several back surgeries, he reached Dube, who operated on Herron’s back the first time in 2001 or 2002.

After that, Dube would operate on Herron a few more times, although Dube doesn’t remember how many. The last time he believed he worked on Herron was 2005.

“I don’t know why he blamed me for all of his pain,” Dube said. “I actually had a good relationship with him. I liked him.”

Dube said when their relationship was good he would always answer Herron’s calls and continued to see him at Herron’s request. There was a lot of open communication, Dube said.

Eventually Dube stopped hearing from Herron, and the last time he saw or spoke to Herron was in 2008.

In 2009, Herron unsuccessfully tried to bring a medical malpractice lawsuit against Dube. Such suits against medical professionals must pass a statewide legal medical panel, Dube said. The panel shut down Herron’s lawsuit by a 6-0 vote.

Despite stories of those from Herron’s life – who said Herron carried the screws, bolts and pins that used to be in his back around with him to help people visualize his pain, and then audibly directed his misfortunes toward Dube – Dube said he never heard about this anger directly from Herron.

But, he had heard from others around the medical community that Herron had become unstable as years passed.

“His behavior had become terrifying,” Dube said. “But I didn’t know any of that until after the fact.”

After finishing his patient’s ankle surgery on Monday, Dube said he hadn’t even changed his clothes when the fire alarm company called his cellphone to let him know of the smoke in his home.

He flew down the roads to his home on Tumbleweed Drive outside town in time to see the bulk of the smoke stack roaring from the window of his home office. Dube believes this is where the fire started and quickly ripped through the house, catalyzed by the files of old taxes and legal papers.

Eventually, the pine-log home burned to a smoldering heap near the Missouri River. Children’s pictures, African wall mounts from hunting trips and the memories housed in the home where they lived for 16 years were gone.

“It was total shock,” Dube said. But given what he had heard from others about Herron’s recent behavior, and memories of the failed lawsuit against him, Dube said he was not surprised when law enforcement told him who the perpetrator was.

Looking for his wife, Dube actually went to the wrong Rossberg home. He drove over to Dan Rossberg’s house, where law enforcement was searching through the property. Herron had gone to the home after lighting the Dube’s home on fire, ran inside, told Dan Rossberg to call 911 before exiting to the backyard and ending his own life with the handgun he presumedly had planned to use to execute Dube and his family.

Dube believes Herron would have continued the nice-guy act until he came home that night.

“It was my thought and law enforcement’s thought that he would have played that ruse until I came home,” Dube said. “God forbid if the (couple's) girls came home from school early ... Who knows what would have happened?”

Dube said Adrienne has never taken a self-defense class, but law enforcement officials tell him she did everything right in the situation in which most people would have frozen and fell victim to the assailant.

He still doesn’t know why, of all the surgeons who operated on Herron, Dube became the target.

“If you try to make sense of it when someone does something crazy, you just can’t,” Dube said.

Dube said this is not the first time medical professionals have been threatened by former patients; usually it’s over prescription drugs and less in your face than approaching their homes with a gun and intent to kill.

He said following Monday’s events, the medical staff, hospital and law enforcement officials are beginning to meet and develop a plan to better protect doctors and staff.

“I think we’ve ignored it for too long,” Dube said. “This was a sneak attack, but we’ve had all kinds of things. We need a cogent, sound plan.”

Dube said without his wife’s efforts, he and their daughters would not be alive today.

“Adrienne is a hero – she did what most people can’t do, in a situation most people couldn’t handle and she was successful at it,” he said.

But Dube is a glass half-full guy. He admits he’s pretty jumpy now but recognized the community has come out in full force to support his family. He said he’s had more than 20 offers for his family to stay at folks’ homes and is getting calls from numbers he doesn’t recognize to offer support.

He also acknowledges the most expendable things were those that were lost in the fire.

“What is gone is nothing,” he said. “What remains is everything.”

Dube said his family plans to stay in the community after the incident.

“We appreciate everything so much,” he said. “How can you leave a community that responds like that?”