Two East Earl Township police officers were justified in using deadly force in the shooting death of a mentally ill teen in Salisbury Township on May 9, Lancaster County District Attorney Donald Totaro announced Thursday.

"Based upon a thorough review of all police reports, witness interviews, autopsy results, physical evidence and relevant statutes, the district attorney's office concludes there is overwhelming evidence to show (the two officers) acted in accordance with Pennsylvania law permitting the use of deadly force," Totaro said in a news release.

Eugene Griffy, 19, of Blue Ball, was shot twice in the back when East Earl officers Christopher Stouch and Robert Serino tried to take Griffy into custody after he assaulted his mother's boyfriend.

Totaro's announcement relieved East Earl police Chief Charles Miller.

"I'm glad that it's over," Miller said. "It's been disheartening the way the newspapers have made this (shooting) sound. (Stouch and Serino) have been through a lot, and we knew all along they were justified in their actions."

Stouch and Serino have been on administrative leave since the shooting. Miller said they will return to active duty "in a couple of days."

Griffy's father, Eugene Beachy of Peach Bottom, disagreed with the district attorney's conclusion about the shooting. Totaro met with Beachy, Victoria Griffy - Eugene Griffy's mother - and their attorney, Howard Brown, on Thursday to go over the shooting report with them.

"It looks to me like everybody got in a room and made up a story because none of this matches what I heard about it," Beachy said. "I am so mad right now."

Brown said information in Totaro's report is different from what Brown learned conducting his own investigation. He said he plans to ask the FBI to investigate the shooting.

Brown also expects to file a lawsuit in federal court claiming Eugene Griffy's civil rights were violated.

"We're going to push this," Beachy said.

Totaro's detailed, 13-page report portrays Griffy's shooting as a desperate act by two police officers whose lives were in danger because they were under attack by an enraged man.

"They were both in fear for their lives when they shot at Mr. Griffy," Totaro said in his news release.

According to Totaro's report, state police stationed at the Ephrata barracks interviewed more than a dozen people in their attempt to piece together the sequence of events that led to Griffy's shooting.

Totaro's report states that Victoria Griffy reported to East Earl police around 9:10 p.m. on May 9 that her son for no reason had punched her boyfriend, Victor Virola, in the nose in their Blue Ball apartment.

When she reported the assault, Ms. Griffy also told police her son had "severe mental and emotional problems."

Medical records obtained by state police during their investigation confirmed Eugene had been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia "with rather significant psychotic symptoms and a poor prognosis for improvement," the report states.

Griffy had been taking medication for his condition, the report says, but stopped taking them when he turned 18.

"The night of the incident, it was obvious Mr. Griffy needed his medication, as his mother had only seen him this bad on one other occasion," the report states.

East Earl police had prior contact with Griffy, including one incident on Dec. 14, 2003, when officers spotted Griffy driving a car to a truck stop. The officers knew Griffy was not licensed to drive and approached him.

The report says Griffy walked right into one of the officers while leaving the store. Griffy became upset, and two officers were needed to place handcuffs on Griffy, who was later released to his mother's custody.

Other incidents police were aware of included Griffy's threatening to commit suicide when he was 15 and Griffy shouting obscenities at Goodville Fire Company Chief Brian Goober when Goober spotted Griffy fishing on private property.

Aware of Griffy's prior contact with police, the report says, East Earl police officers went looking for Griffy following his mother's report on May 9.

Ms. Griffy told police she thought her son might be headed to a small cluster of trailers at 528 Sandmine Road, Salisbury Township, where Ms. Griffy had parked a car that her son liked to sleep in.

Officer Serino was the first to reach the Sandmine Road address. Serino told state police investigators when he arrived, he began to step out of his vehicle and Griffy charged him, the report states.

Griffy was punching Serino in the face and head as the officer tried to spray Griffy with Mace. During the struggle, Griffy grabbed Serino's gun, the report says, and fired two rounds. The bullets did not injure either man, although one went straight through Serino's holster and the seat and floor of his vehicle.

Officer Stouch arrived as the struggle between Serino and Griffy was under way, the report states. Since Griffy still had one hand on Serino's gun and was hitting the officer with his other hand, the report says, Serino yelled for Stouch to shoot Griffy.

Stouch fired two shots at Griffy from behind, the report states. Griffy let go of Serino's gun, turned around and lunged at Stouch.

Believing Griffy was attacking Stouch, Serino fired one shot at Griffy, and Griffy went down, the report says.

An autopsy later showed Griffy was shot twice in the back. One bullet passed completely through his body, while the other lodged in his torso.

State police took the bullet from Griffy's body, examined it and determined it had been fired from Serino's gun.

"A lot has been said about (Griffy's) mental illness and how the officers should have handled him," Miller said. "That's neither here nor there. He attacked an officer. He got hold of an officer's gun, and he fired rounds from the gun.

"That's an officer who is fighting for his life."

As part of their investigation, Totaro's report states, state police interviewed several residents who live near the scene of the shooting and who witnessed various parts of the struggle between police and Griffy.

All said they saw Griffy fighting with police, but some said they did not see the struggle for Serino's gun that Serino described, according to the report.

Brown said he interviewed those same witnesses. Based on those interviews, Brown said he does not believe Griffy ever got hold of Serino's gun.

"I think everybody agrees there was a fight, but what happened after that is where we disagree with the district attorney's findings," he said. "I think we need the FBI or 12 members of a jury to determine what actually happened."

In the conclusion section of his report, Totaro states East Earl police "acted appropriately in attempting to locate Mr. Griffy and take him into custody."

The district attorney also states Serino and Stouch acted appropriately at 528 Sandmine Road.

"Eugene Griffy presented a grave risk of death or serious bodily injury, and at no time did he respond to police authority," Totaro writes in the report.

"Pursuant to (state law), I have concluded that Officers Christopher Stouch and Robert Serino were justified in the use of deadly force under the circumstances and facts presented in this case," Totaro concludes.