A preliminary investigation shows that Chicago police acted properly when they fatally shot a man who allegedly pointed a weapon at them after his car slammed into an officer directing traffic on the Northwest Side, officials said Monday.

"At this point, the officers acted properly, with all the evidence we have available right now," Chief of Detectives Phil Cline said.

Advertisement

At least several officers were involved in the shooting Sunday of Hector Leyva, 48, of the 5000 block of West Diversey Parkway, authorities said. All of them remain on duty as the department's Office of Professional Standards continues to investigate, officials said.

A .25-caliber loaded automatic pistol was recovered from Leyva's car, police said.

Advertisement

"There were repeated commands to drop the weapon," said John Thomas, the first deputy police superintendent. "When the offender pointed the weapon at police, police responded with gunfire."

Leyva did not fire his weapon, police said. A small amount of cocaine was found in his vehicle, they said.

Leyva's widow disputed the police statement that her husband emerged from his car with a firearm, saying Monday that Leyva didn't own a gun.

"I don't understand this at all," Elsa Leyva said as she stood in front of her apartment building. "Here's a man who didn't want to get his car ticketed and was just moving his car off of Diversey and down the street a couple of blocks. Why on Earth would anyone need a gun to do that?"

The incident began around 11 p.m. Sunday when an officer at the intersection of Diversey and Laramie Avenues told Leyva he couldn't go in the direction he wanted because police were diverting traffic.

Leyva became upset and drove off, striking the officer, police said. He lost control of his car and crashed into two parked cars in the 2700 block of North Laramie Avenue, they said.

Moments later, officers saw the driver lean out of his car window with a handgun, officials said. When he refused to drop his weapon, police said they opened fire. Exactly how many shots were fired remained unclear Monday.

Leyva was pronounced dead at Illinois Masonic Hospital shortly after 11:30 p.m., officials said.

Advertisement

The officer struck by the car was treated for minor injuries and released from a local hospital, officials said.

Police were in the area, some of them in riot gear, to control heavy foot traffic and motorists, who were shouting, honking horns and waving flags for the Mexican Independence Day celebration.

Police said there were disturbances Sunday in a five-block stretch of North Clark (6600-7100) and along parts of Lawrence and Montrose Avenues in the Albany Park neighborhood. There were sporadic cases of bottle and rock throwing but no other reports of serious injuries, police said.

Elsa Leyva acknowledged her husband, a parcel service package handler, had been at a nearby tavern earlier in the evening, but said he had returned home around 10 p.m. before leaving to move his car. She said he wasn't intoxicated.

"He was not drunk, no way," she said. "He wasn't the kind of person to go out and drink and drink."

Police said they had arrested Leyva five times in the past 20 years for mostly minor criminal offenses. He was charged with unlawful use of a weapon in 1982. State police said that Leyva did not have a firearm owner's identification card.