Terry DeMio

tdemio@enquirer.com

Five Covington Police officers have been cleared in a lawsuit of using excessive force in 2008 when a man died in their custody after they repeatedly shocked him with Tasers.

Ruby Sheffey claimed in the suit on behalf of her son that officers shouldn’t have shocked her mentally ill son, Leroy Hughes, when he walked toward two schools while carrying a loaded weapon and behaving erratically.

The Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals on April 28 affirmed a decision of U.S. District Judge David Bunning, who in January 2012 dismissed the civil rights lawsuit.

The lawyer for police officers Ron Allen and Robert Bacon said Tuesday that none of the police involved in the incident should have been sued.

“These police officers risked their lives to protect little children in a residential area, where there were two elementary schools,” said Philip Taliaferro, noting that Hughes had a loaded gun, a knife, ammunition and a history of mental illness. “There’s no telling what he could have done to residents of the community or to those little children.”

Sheffey’s lawyer could not be reached for comment Tuesday.

Hughes, 52, of Covington, was in the area of Glenn O. Swing and St. Augustine elementary schools at about 11 a.m. Dec. 3, 2008, when a witness called 911 saying he saw a man who put a gun in one pocket and a clip in another.

Allen was the first police officer to arrive and said he ordered Hughes to show his hands and drop to the ground, but Hughes didn’t listen. Allen alerted dispatch that he thought Hughes appeared to be mentally ill or drunk.

According to police statements, Hughes was shuffling back and forth on his feet and saying “dynamite” while reaching around his waistband. Bacon, who’d come to back up Allen, early in the encounter re-holstered his gun and removed his Taser.

Police said that it appeared Hughes was walking toward Bacon or trying to get away. That’s when Bacon first shocked Hughes, but it had no effect. He did so again, and again it had no effect, according to witnesses.

Police said they feared not only for their own safety but for that of the school children, some of whom were mingling outside.

Eventually, the officers forced the 6-foot, 6-inch, 410-pound man to the ground, but, they said, they could not handcuff him immediately because he kept his hands in front of him, in the area of his waistband. Hughes would not put his hands behind his back, police said. Police officers shocked him with Tasers repeatedly, which they said had no effect.

Police said Hughes was still breathing after he was subdued and restrained with three pairs of handcuffs on his arms and leg shackles. Police patted him down and found a handgun with a live round in the chamber, a speedloader, three boxes of ammunition, a knife and a few loose bullets.

Shortly after he was subdued, Hughes became medically distressed, police said. They called for an ambulance and he stopped breathing. He was pronounced dead at St. Elizabeth Medical Center in Covington.

When the case was dismissed, lawyer Jeff Mando, who represented officers Eric Higgins and Sgt. William Webster, said that the significance of the ruling is that it establishes that officers can use force, even against a mentally ill person, when that person is a threat; and lawyer Robert Lotz, who represented officer Steve Bohman, said Bunning’s opinion exonerated the officers in 2012.⬛