By Janelle MacDonald

LOUISVILLE (WAVE) -- A man suspected of robbing the Stock Yards Bank at 4825 South Third Street was fatally shot by police Monday. WAVE 3's Janelle MacDonald reports.

A total of nine police officers -- including six LMPD officers and three Jefferson County Sheriff Deputies -- are being interviewed as investigators try to piece together what led up to the fatal shooting.

We're told the incident began after reports of a hold-up at the bank and of shots fired just before noon. Police tell us they found a person matching the description of the suspect at Third and Tenney.

Nearby residents thought the commotion outside their homes was related to a wreck because there are a lot of crashes in that area. Then they noticed that officers had their guns drawn and had surrounded a blue Ford Taurus.

LMPD Chief Robert White says the suspect didn't have a chance to make a fast getaway, since a sheriff's deputy was right outside the bank.

"The sheriff's deputy observed a suspicious individual wearing a bandanna near the bank, confronted him, and we believe that individual produced a gun and pointed it at the sheriff's deputy," White said.

White says shots were fired, and the suspect jumped into the car, where he was quickly surrounded by police less than a block from the bank.

A witness who lives in the area told us he came out of the house when he heard a loud commotion. He says he heard officers order the suspect to raise his hands as he sat in the car, but "he opened the door instead."

Chief White says "at some point he got out of the car, produced a gun, brandished the gun. Several shots were fired by the officers, and probably by the sheriffs."

One woman said she thought she counted between 15 to 20 shots.

The identity of the dead man and the officers who fired the fatal shots were not immediately available.

LMPD Chief Robert White said officers were justified in using deadly force since the suspect was allegedly waving a gun around, putting officers and the public at risk. "When you point a gun at a police officer or anybody else, I certainly think that would meet the criteria that their life or somebody else's life is in deadly harm, and they certainly have a responsibility to take some kind of action to diminish the harm."

Police tell us it's still unclear whether the suspect ever fired his weapon. A gun and cash were recovered from the suspect's car.

Online Reporter: Janelle MacDonald