A man who died after police say he fled officers in his car last week and jumped from a St. Paul bridge was identified Monday as a 33-year-old from St. Paul.

Scott A. Olding was pronounced dead near the Lafayette Bridge at 11 p.m. Thursday; he died from multiple traumatic injuries, according to the Ramsey County medical examiner’s office.

Police were trying to stop Olding for traffic violations at Concord Street and Interstate 494, according to South St. Paul police. Olding initially stopped but sped away before an officer could talk to him, police said last week.

When Olding was driving on U.S. 52 over the Mississippi River in St. Paul, he suddenly stopped on the shoulder, got out and jumped over the east railing, police said. Olding landed more than 50 feet below in a grassy area between the river and Warner Road.

South St. Paul police said Monday that the case remains under investigation.

Olding’s sister, Mandy Olding, said Monday that her brother was a great person.

Related Articles Crime & Public Safety | Parents of missing Eagan man establish nonprofit to honor him, support families coping with loss

Parents of missing Eagan man establish nonprofit to honor him, support families coping with loss Crime & Public Safety | Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out

Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out Crime & Public Safety | Feds: Anoka man with violent anti-government views sentenced on meth, illegal gun charges

Feds: Anoka man with violent anti-government views sentenced on meth, illegal gun charges Crime & Public Safety | Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight

Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight Crime & Public Safety | 73-year-old who died in stabbing after knocking on St. Paul door previously charged with murder, civilly committed She memorialized him on a fundraising website for Scott Olding’s funeral expenses, saying he was a son, a brother, an uncle and a cousin who lived in St. Paul his whole life.

“(He) was loved and appreciated by so many not only within his family, but also throughout his North End neighborhood where he was known to always lend a hand to help neighbors with various forms of handy work around their homes,” Mandy Olding wrote.

Court records show that Olding was previously in trouble for driving after his license was canceled or revoked, most recently in 2012, according to the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. He had a valid license Thursday.

Olding had a pending court case — he was charged with threats of violence in August.

A longtime neighbor and friend reported that Olding asked her for a cigarette, and that after she told him she didn’t have one, he started smashing her Cadillac, according to a criminal complaint. He held “a hammer above his head in a threatening manner when he yelled at her,” and later threatened two other people while holding a baseball bat and golf club, the complaint continued.

Olding pleaded not guilty last month in the case.

He was convicted of fifth-degree drug possession in 2016 and drunken driving in 2007 for separate incidents.

Sarah Horner contributed to this report.