Update 11:46 a.m.: A 24-year-old man is dead after an officer involved shooting Friday afternoon, according to Mandan police.

Officers responded to a domestic disturbance just after 3:30, according to a press release. When they arrived, they found a 19-year-old woman and the now-deceased man arguing.

Police say the man had a knife, refused to drop it and charged towards officers. The officer then shot the man, who died at the scene. Officers say they provided medical assistance until paramedics and fire personnel could get there.

The three responding officers and the woman involved weren't hurt.

The officers are now on administrative leave as per department policy.

The Bureau of Criminal Investigation is now investigating the incident.

A spokesperson for the Bureau of Criminal Investigation said, "The BCI will conduct a thorough review of the officer's actions as quickly as possible but this will take some time to complete. It is anticipated that the investigation will be completed within 30 days. Once the investigation is completed, the BCI will report its findings to the county state's attorney. We will not make further comment until the investigation of the officer's actions is completed."

She also said the BCI is helping investigate the crime, but the Mandan Police Department remains the lead agency with jurisdiction over the investigation.

Original Story: A Mandan police officer was involved in a shooting after being called to a domestic violence incident this afternoon, according to authorities.

Mandan Police Lt. Pat Haug says emergency services didn't take anyone to the hospital, but wouldn't say if anyone was injured.

After the shooting, the Mandan Police Department gave the scene to the Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

Because it was no longer his crime scene, Haug wouldn't give much more information.

"We don't want to do that investigation so we bring in an independent agency to do that investigation. So that there's not, obviously, we all know each other in the Mandan Police Department, so we just have the independent BCI do it," said Lt. Pat Haug, Mandan Police Department.

We'll have more information as this story develops.