Updated Friday at 5:34 p.m.

An autopsy shows a Portland man killed his two daughters then himself after a domestic violence call led to an officer-involved shooting early Wednesday morning, police said.

Jaime Cortinas, 42, shot his two daughters, Janet Cortinas-Duran, 8, and Jasmine Duran-Cortinas, 11, multiple times, Gresham police spokesman Det. John Rasmussen said late Thursday afternoon.

Police say Cortinas set his car on fire during a confrontation with police. Cortinas and his daughters were found dead in their burning SUV after at least one officer shot at him.

The girls' mother called Portland police at 12:30 a.m., reporting her husband was threatening their daughters. Cortinas told his wife over the phone he had already killed the girls, Rasmussen said. He threatened to light their car on fire and kill himself, Rasmussen said.

Gresham police found Cortinas' Land Rover Discovery in a strip mall parking lot in the 16200 block of Northeast Glisan Street at about 1:45 a.m., Rasmussen said.

As officers arrived, Cortinas fired a .32 caliber handgun, Rasmussen said. Police are investigating whether Cortinas fired at officers, he said.

Officer Matt Anderson fired his gun at Cortinas, striking him more than once, Rasmussen said.

An autopsy showed that Anderson's shots did not kill Cortinas. Rather, he died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

After the shooting, police broke the SUV's windows to rescue the girls, only to find they were dead.

No officer's round hit the children, according to the autopsy.

Several officers sustained minor burns, cuts and smoke inhalation while trying to rescue the girls.

Anderson has been placed on administrative leave as the incident is investigated, which is standard procedure, Rasmussen said.

Both girls attended Glenfair Elementary School in the Reynolds School District, spokeswoman Andrea Watson said Friday morning. Jasmine Duran-Cortinas was a fifth grader and had attended the school since April 2013. Janet Cortinas-Duran was a second grader. She enrolled in the school in fall 2014 as a kindergartener.

"Both children were excellent students, diligent workers and will be deeply missed by their peers and teachers," Glenfair Elementary School administrators said in a statement.

-- Samantha Matsumoto

smatsumoto@oregonian.com

503-294-4001; @SMatsumoto55

This story was updated on Friday to include where the girls attended school.