State Police Monday identified the man shot and killed by Suffield police last week as Thomas Gezotis, of Springfield.

Suffield police officers were investigating a report of a stolen car shot and killed Gezotis after he pulled out a pellet gun during a traffic stop Thursday afternoon, law enforcement officials said lst week.

Gezotis had been drinking and flashing cash inside the Shamrock Cafe, a bar on East Street South, shortly before the fatal confrontation, a law enforcement official said. The cash may have come from a bank robbery in Enfield earlier on Thursday, police said.

The incident unfolded about 12:30 p.m. as Suffield officers arrived at the bar to investigate the stolen car complaint. It’s unclear how Suffield police became aware of the stolen car parked in the Shamrock Cafe’s parking lot, but as they investigated, the man who drove it there called a taxi, got into it and left the bar.

Suffield police followed and pulled over the cab about 200 yards from the bar. As officers approached the cab, the shooting occurred, authorities said.

Suffield police were not aware of the man’s possible role in the bank robbery while investigating the stolen car complaint, a law enforcement official said.

The cab driver was not injured. Middlesex State’s Attorney Peter McShane was assigned to investigate the police use of force.

The suspect was taken to St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford for treatment, but died of gunshot wounds, officials said. The Suffield officer was not physically injured, but was taken to a hospital to be checked.

Police in Enfield were investigating a bank robbery that occurred at 11:40 a.m. at the Santander Bank at 800 Enfield St., on Route 5. An official with knowledge of the case said a large amount of money was found with the man in the taxi.

The Shamrock Cafe is an eight-minute drive from the bank.

Police have not identified the car theft suspect or the officer. Police did not say how many shots were fired, but witnesses reported hearing several gunshots.