The Ramsey County sheriff’s deputy who fatally shot a man in an SUV during a confrontation with law enforcement officers last spring in Vadnais Heights will not face criminal charges.

The county attorney’s office, after reviewing the case since January, announced Thursday that Ramsey County sheriff’s deputy Andre Rongitsch’s decision to shoot Darren Robert Jahnke on April 16 was legally justified.

The shooting took place after 47-year-old Jahnke struggled with officers inside an RV, disarming one of them, authorities say.

He later was pronounced dead at a hospital.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi — in a letter supporting the conclusion reached by the two assistant county attorneys who reviewed the case — wrote that Rongitsch was left with no other choice but to shoot Jahnke in response to the immediate threat he posed to officers.

“We do not say out loud or publicly recognize enough the impact that these use-of-force encounters have on the men and women who are involved in these dangerous situations,” Choi wrote. “I am saddened about the trauma that likely still endures for all of the deputies who were put in this dangerous situation and for the surviving family members of Darren Jahnke.”

Jenny Vance, Jahnke’s sister, said her family was “sickened” by the decision and insisted that the officers’ involved in her brother’s death should have faced charges.

“The system we trusted to assist us has failed us,” she said in a statement issued Friday by local activist group, Communities United Against Police Brutality. “However, Darren is undergoing an independent autopsy and we feel certain that it will provide a more accurate explanation and documentation of the deputies’ wrongful killing of my brother.”

CONFRONTATION, THEN A SHOT

Rongitsch and his colleague, deputy Sara Naglosky, were on patrol about 9:30 p.m. last spring near U.S. 61 and Interstate 694 when they came across a parked car and an RV they deemed suspicious.

The officers were investigating a reported sexual assault involving an RV that had taken place in nearby Little Canada at the time, according to a memorandum released by the county attorney’s office.

Naglosky and Rongitsch approached the car, and a woman inside it told them that a man, later identified as Jahnke, was in the RV.

As the deputies approached the RV from either side, deputies Doug Haider and Lisa Daly also arrived on the scene at 3250 Fanum Road.

The officers began to request information about Jahnke’s identity, which he repeatedly refused to provide despite their disclosure that they were investigating a sexual assault, the memo said. Deputies also noted that neither Jahnke nor the woman with him matched the descriptions of the vehicles’ owners.

After about 20 minutes, deputies told Jahnke he was under arrest for obstruction of justice and proceeded to enter the RV.

At that point, Jahnke grabbed a five-gallon bucket of fecal matter and ran into the vehicle’s “dimly lit and confined” interior, the memo said.

As he started to make threatening motions with the bucket, deputies ordered him to drop it, and Daly deployed her Taser to his leg, authorities say.

The stun-gun compelled him to drop the bucket. When he refused orders to turn around, Daly deployed the Taser a second time, to no avail, the memo said.

That’s when Jahnke tackled Daly to the floor and grabbed her loaded gun from her holster, the memo said.

Her fellow officers’ began ordering Jahnke to release Daly and drop the gun and show his hands, authorities say.

When he refused and another officer’s Taser failed to incapacitate him, Rongitsch fired a single shot at him, striking Jahnke in the back of his head, according to the memo.

The shot was fired after Daly repeatedly screamed, “He’s got my gun,” and “Please shoot him,” the memo said.

Testing conducted later by BCA officials located Jahnke’s fingerprints on Daly’s gun, authorities say. The deputy also reportedly had injuries consistent with being wrestled to the ground.

The deputies immediately administered first aid and called for an ambulance, according to the BCA. Jahnke was pronounced dead at Regions Hospital.

All four deputies were placed on standard administrative leave as the BCA investigated the shooting but have since been returned to active duty, according to a spokeswoman with the Ramsey County sheriff’s office.

With the conclusion of the charging decision, the sheriff’s office will begin conducting an internal review of the incident, the spokeswoman reported.

FAMILY DEMANDS ANSWERS

The statement issued by Jahnke’s sister and Communities United Against Policy Brutality called the authorities’ narrative of what happened “slanted and unscientific.”

In particular, it questioned why the deputies involved weren’t questioned until three days after the shooting, asserting that the delay gave them time to “collaborate on their version of the incident.”

They also said that there had been no prior mention by law enforcement that a sexual assault had been under investigation in the area at the time of the shooting, and suggested that the story was made-up to provide cover for the officers’ conduct.

“This appears to be fabricated to justify the deputies’ harassment of Darren,” the statement read.

Last month, Jahnke’s family held a press conference demanding that the Ramsey County medical examiner’s office release his body without conditions and that the investigation results be released.

They also urged that the officers involved be prosecuted.

Related Articles Crime & Public Safety | Jury in federal lawsuit awards $11.5 million to family of man fatally shot by St. Paul officers

Jury in federal lawsuit awards $11.5 million to family of man fatally shot by St. Paul officers Crime & Public Safety | Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out

Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out Crime & Public Safety | Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight

Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight Crime & Public Safety | Citing PFAS contamination, state updates fish consumption advisory for Mississippi River, Lake Rebecca

Citing PFAS contamination, state updates fish consumption advisory for Mississippi River, Lake Rebecca Crime & Public Safety | Metro Transit’s Gold Line construction causes headaches for businesses. Some wonder if it’s worth it. “We are frozen in a state of perpetual grief and anger. Our family is imprisoned by our emotions. My mom is broken, destroyed by the loss of her son,” Jahnke’s sister Jenny Vance said at the time. “My brother is gone, and we don’t know why.”

The medical examiner’s office has since released Jahnke’s body, and Vance said that the family will make plans to bury him after an independent autopsy they are having conducted on his remains is completed.

Jahnke, who was divorced and had three stepchildren, worked as a baker and a carpenter, Vance said.

“He was a brilliant person,” Vance said. “He could solve any problem … was very compassionate, empathetic … and he loved to create.”

Vance, their younger brother and their mother have waited too long to lay him to rest as the investigation dragged on, Vance said.

“At least this will close one chapter and I guess open a new chapter of this whole journey,” she said. “It has been a lot of work to get this far.”

The family plans to wait for the results of its independent autopsy as well as the medical examiner’s findings before deciding whether to pursue a civil suit in the case.