A 24-year-old Rockford, Minn., woman who was a passenger during a high-speed police pursuit died Saturday when the chase ended in a crash in Bloomington, authorities said.

The woman, riding in the car being pursued by police, was not wearing a seat belt, according to the Minnesota State Patrol. She was identified as Sondra Kristine Heger.

The State Patrol said the pursuit began about 3:20 p.m. Saturday when officers spotted a 2003 Saturn L200 driving carelessly at high speeds on American Boulevard in Bloomington. Related Articles Crime & Public Safety | Parents of missing Eagan man establish nonprofit to honor him, support families coping with loss

Parents of missing Eagan man establish nonprofit to honor him, support families coping with loss Crime & Public Safety | Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out

Minnesotans fire up their grills on Tuesday for Night to Unite/National Night Out Crime & Public Safety | Feds: Anoka man with violent anti-government views sentenced on meth, illegal gun charges

Feds: Anoka man with violent anti-government views sentenced on meth, illegal gun charges Crime & Public Safety | Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight

Maplewood man, 62, sentenced to probation for fatally stabbing 30-year-old during fight Crime & Public Safety | 73-year-old who died in stabbing after knocking on St. Paul door previously charged with murder, civilly committed

When officers attempted to pull over the driver, he fled eastbound, running a red light at 34th Avenue and striking a 2012 Buick Regal before hitting another light. The 26-year-old driver of the Buick was wearing her seat belt and was not injured in the crash.

Nicholas Michael Lowers, 27, of Blaine, was driving the Saturn, and was taken to a hospital with injuries that were not life-threatening, according the State Patrol. He faces possible charges of criminal vehicular homicide, felony fleeing a police in a motor vehicle and possession of a stolen vehicle, according to police.

The State Patrol says alcohol is believed to be a factor in the crash.