After fatally shooting Jesse Sollman, Matthew Renninger was rendered an "emotional basket case," according to a former colleague.

None of the police interviewed for this series nor his attorney have spoken to him in years. Opinion is mixed over whether he should have paid a criminal penalty for mishandling his gun 10 years ago.

Former Easton police Capt. John Mazzeo is among those who sympathize with the former officer.

"I lost two friends that day. I lost Jesse. And I lost Matt," Mazzeo said. "And as much as you don't like to look at Matt, Matt was a decent person."

He described Renninger as an "emotional basket case" in the hospital psychiatric unit about a week after Sollman's death.

"When he saw me, his only response was to start crying and tell me how much he didn't mean it," Mazzeo said. "It's such an emotionally traumatic event. What do you say? What do you say to somebody like that?"

Renninger's attorney, Gary Asteak, had to wait for days to consult him about the case and waited weeks to have any meaningful dialogue with him.

"He was in horrible shape. You talk about post-traumatic stress," Asteak said. "He was devastated. ... He wasn't really in any kind of condition where we could talk rationally about what happened, breaking down the event bit by bit. But over time we were able to recount what happened."

Renninger couldn't be reached for comment.

About a year after Sollman's death, a Pennsylvania grand jury determined Renninger's testimony wasn't entirely believable and he carelessly handled his gun, but his behavior did not rise to the level requiring an indictment.

Some at the time questioned the lack of an indictment, including Sollman's father.

Marc Costanzo, the state prosecutor on the case, declined to comment on the investigation. A spokeswoman for then-Attorney General Tom Corbett didn't return a phone call.

Asteak maintains the grand jury made the right call.

"He didn't goof around with the gun," Asteak said of Renninger. "He made a mistake by not checking the gun to make sure it was loaded. He was simply turning around and by turning around he misjudged where Jesse was and bumped into him."

Renninger's account of what happened differed from a forensic pathologist and other experts, according to the grand jurors. Asteak said he took great pains to re-enact the events for the jurors by building a room to the exact dimensions of the gun room where Sollman was killed and staging a demonstration with the same type of gun Renninger held.

Asteak said the city shouldn't have challenged Renninger's ability to collect a partial pension due to mental disability. The state Supreme Court ruled in his favor in 2011 and Renninger continues to receive $10,765 a year from the city.

Asteak said Renninger will never be able to work as a police officer again due to the trauma of Sollman's death.

Then-Mayor Phil Mitman didn't address the pension issue in the statement he released for this article.

"Officer Matt Renninger ... accidentally fired the fatal shot and he and his family have had to live with the dreadful consequences of his action," Mitman wrote in the statement. "The Easton Police Department, Easton elected officials and our entire community were horrified, shocked and gravely saddened. In the remaining two-and-a-half years of my mayoral term, I spent day and night remembering Jesse, his family and our police department."

Easton Mayor Sal Panto Jr. said the decision to fight Renninger's ability to collect the pension was made by Mitman's administration.

Friends and colleagues have done their best to help Renninger try to heal.

Sollman's pastor, Frank Terhune, recalled Renninger watching Sollman's memorial service from the upper floors of the Alpha Building because he was unable emotionally to handle attending. The pastor tried to help Renninger during a meeting at the church office where other officers put their hands on him, prayed and told him to forgive himself.

"We tried to say it wasn't God's will," Terhune said. "It was an accident."

Mazzeo thinks Renninger has suffered plenty regardless of the grand jury decision.

"Matt was a decent person," Mazzeo said. "He was another member of the team."

Rudy Miller may be reached at rmiller@express-times.com. Follow him on Twitter @RudyMillerLV. Find Easton area news on Facebook.

Check out our lineup of more stories and videos.