The shooting ended a tense manhunt that had gripped the town of Lititz, following the 12:45 a.m. shooting of the officer.

Police went to Drumore Township, thinking that the suspect may have fled there.

More than 60 police officers from all over the county had converged on Lititz, mounting a massive manhunt.

A helicopter swirled overhead as dozens of officers in full SWAT gear covered ground on horseback and on foot, using bloodhounds to search the woods, houses and other areas just south of the borough.

Schools closed, some businesses idled and residents were asked to temporarily stay inside their homes during the manhunt.

The manhunt was sparked after Daniel Bryan Faust, 23, of 69 Heron Road, allegedly shot Officer Jevon Miller, 24, at about 12:45 a.m.

The shooting occurred as Miller and two other officers — Stephen Detz of Lititz Borough and David Burdis of Warwick Township — attempted to serve a warrant on Faust at his townhome just west of the Weis Market and Keller Brothers Ford on Route 501.

Miller, a 1999 Warwick High School graduate who had been on the force for two years, was in stable condition this morning in the trauma-neuro unit at Lancaster General Hospital, a family member said. The family member said the young officer was expected to make a “full recovery.”

Police had been looking for Faust since Oct. 19, when they tried to pull him over for numerous traffic violations, including driving without a license and stop-sign violations. He fled and had remained at large.

They confronted Faust in the driveway of his Heron Road home early today but he refused to come with them. Faust then fired at least one time at the officers, police said.

The officers fired back eight shots, police said. Police did not know if any of the shots struck Faust.

Police were not expecting gunfire when they went to arrest Faust.

“We had no idea he was armed,” said Lititz Borough Police Sgt. Kerry Nye.

Miller was wearing a bullet-proof vest but the bullet entered an unprotected area under his arm, lodging behind his lung, police said.

“What he needs is a lot of rest,” said his family member, who asked not to be identified. “He’s going to be OK.”

Police searched Faust’s home after the shooting and found drug paraphernalia and weapons, including rifles and revolvers, said Warwick Township Police Chief Richard Garipoli Jr.

Faust’s neighbors awoke to the sound of the gunfire this morning, followed by police pounding on their doors, asking them to leave their homes.

Fourteen homes near the Faust home were evacuated until about 8 this morning.

“I heard gunshots,” said Michelle Piechowski of 57 Heron Drive. “I thought it was a car backfiring.”

Doug Deibler of 439 Crosswinds Drive, whose property backs up to the Faust home, heard shouting and gunshots.

“I heard a popping sound and I didn’t know what it was,” he said. “The next thing I heard was someone yelling, ‘Officer down!’ ”

Neighbors said Faust lives in the home with his mother, Sandra, who bought it in August 1999, according to property records.

They said the family moved there from Quarryville.

Faust went to Solanco for his freshman and sophomore years of high school, but then records indicate he was transferring to Warwick schools, a Solanco spokesman said.

However, Warwick has no record of him, district Superintendent Stephen Iovino said today.

Neighbors said Faust was quiet and did not talk much to them. They believed he had worked previously in Manheim and at a warehouse job but was not working recently.

One neighbor said Faust kept odd hours.

“His vehicle was in the driveway all day and then he disappears at night,” said Mike Emerick of 61 Heron Drive, Faust’s next-door neighbor.

Emerick said police had been staking out Faust’s home for two weeks, sitting in an unmarked car and waiting for him to return home.

Emerick said he understood that the Fausts had been planning to move and were in the process of selling their home to another neighbor.

As police searched for Faust this morning, both the Warwick School District and the Lititz Area Mennonite School closed for the day.

Some Lititz businesses also said that their trade was slow today, as people apparently stayed home.

“It’s quiet and traffic is very light,” Connie Butto, a retail clerk at the The Herb Shop at 20 E. Main St. said shortly after 10 a.m.

“We’ve been slower than normal,” said Tiffany Bomberger, a server at the Spill the Beans coffee shop at 43 E. Main St.

However, the Dosie Dough coffee shop and bakery at 45 S. Broad St. did a brisk business as patrons were abuzz about what they knew and didn’t know.

“It’s a small town. People are just waiting to hear the real story and find out what really happened,” said manager Ben Emerson.

(Staff writer Ad Crable also contributed to this report.)