I hope we'll learn a lot more about this terrible situation that occured a few days ago.

Here's what we know: Tyree Wallace, who has been confirmed by the Pistons as Rasheed's first cousin, was a senior at Arcadia University. The police say he sold them drugs, and then shot an officer when they tried to arrest him. Another man is said to have emerged from a building shooting at the cops too. Tyree Wallace is now dead. The officer, who was shot in the groin, will be OK.

Barbara Boyer of the Philadelphia Inquirer writes that Tyree Wallace may not have gotten the medical attention he could have used:

The Rev. Harry Davis, pastor of Holy Temple Baptist Church in West Oak Lane and a former Philadelphia Police Clergy president, said the officers "did not handle the situation well" after Wallace was shot. "They handcuffed him and tried to put him on a stretcher," Davis said. "When the stretcher didn't work, they picked him up by the legs and head like a rag doll and threw him in the back of a paddy wagon." He was pronounced dead at Albert Einstein Medical Center in North Philadelphia, where Mitchell was also taken.

Krista Latham's Detroit Free Press story from a couple of days ago says it's unclear if Tyree fired a shot.

One report said Wallace than pulled out a gun as officers approached him. Another said he shot at the officers.

From this Associated Press article, it sounds like the police have said Wallace pulled a gun but did not fire.

"(Wallace) was fired on in response to him drawing a gun on police," Capt. Benjamin Naish said at a news conference Friday. It wasn't immediately known who fired the fatal shots. Several other officers were at the scene.

One of the most detailed accounts quotes the same captain saying Wallace was a shooter. The article also has a lot of interesting news about the neighborhood in the aftermath. Simone Weichselbaum writes in the Philadelphia News that tensions are high:

Many of those at the vigil placed stuffed animals and candles atop the large bloodstain where Wallace collapsed on 67th Avenue near Uber Street, around the corner from his home. After the crowd broke up, a resident called the Daily News to report that a highway patrol car had run over the memorial. This reporter saw broken candles and teddy bears strewn about the sidewalk. The two highway patrolman in question were told about the allegation and said they were not allowed to talk with the press. "I have no information that an officer would intentionally damage it," said Chief Inspector William Colarulo. "I believe the officers out there will always act professionally." Throughout the day yesterday, cops expressed anger and frustration over media coverage of the incident. Top brass held a press conference praising Mitchell and defended police action "as a good shooting." "Wallace shot Sergeant Mitchell," said spokesman Capt. Ben Naish. "Wallace was selling drugs to an undercover officer. Police said they had found marijuana on Wallace. Mitchell's boss, Capt. Michael Cochrane of highway patrol, said Mitchell was eager to return to work. "He said, 'I am sorry I got hurt,' " Cochrane said. Cochrane also defended police for shooting Wallace. "These things happen." Wallace's neighborhood is considered "a hot-spot" because of its heavy drug traffic, cops said, explaining why undercover narcotics cops were out on Uber Street Thursday night. Many who knew Wallace said they doubted the police account of what transpired. "I don't believe their story," said a 32-year-old woman who lives on Uber Street. She said she saw Wallace "hunched over and running" away from police gunfire. The woman refused to give her name, saying she feared the "police will come after me." The woman said that at first she thought a group of "regular" black men were running after Wallace because they were dressed in baggy jeans and "normal clothes." "They didn't look like cops," she said. "They looked like thugs." The woman said she thought Wallace had not realized that the men chasing him were police officers. Neighbors said that Wallace had a permit to carry a gun but that they didn't know if he owned one. Police said they couldn't confirm that he had a permit. While the drama was unfolding between Wallace and police, an unidentified man came out of a house nearby and began shooting at cops, they said. They chased him back inside the house, where they found a Tec-9. Cops said the 20-year-old shooter was in custody last night awaiting charges. His name will be released after charges are filed, police said. Friends and neighbors insist that shooting at a cop is not something that Wallace would ever have done. "This is out of character for the Tyree I know," said Dennis Seddon, Wallace's high school basketball coach at Roman Catholic High School. "You never know who might get involved with drugs, which is being alleged here. But to think Tyree could pull out a gun and shoot someone, I find that literally unbelievable." The Wallace family agreed. "He was on his way," said Wallace's grandmother, Paula Paul, 64. "Never in my wildest dreams would I think of this outcome. It didn't fit" with him.

A blogger who says she knew Tyree from Arcadia reacts with shock and horror: