The killing of a Wilmington man by a New Castle County police officer last April was ruled as justified, according to a report released Wednesday by the Delaware Department of Justice.

Twenty-one-year-old Keith Price emerged from bushes surrounding Saint Helena’s Church in Bellefonte with a gun in his hand and fired a single shot at Officer Sean Sweeney-Jones, who returned fire with 11 shots, seven of which struck Price in the neck, torso and upper extremities, according to details provided in the report.

Because Sweeney-Jones feared for his life and the safety of others, the state Department of Justice cleared him for using lethal force on Price, according to the report.

Price was the suspect in an attempted murder on April 9, 2017. Police obtained an arrest warrant for him April 18.

Undercover county officers in an unmarked car saw Price in a Honda Accord at 24th and North Market streets in Wilmington on April 19, 2017, according to the report.

They positioned their vehicle behind him, according to the report. The undercover officer, referred to in the report as Detective M. George, then called for uniformed backup.

Officials: Man killed by police had shot at officer

Man killed by police was wanted for attempted murder

Two patrol cars arrived, one driven by Sweeney-Jones, the report said. The uniformed officers in this car were told they were there to arrest an attempted murder suspect.

The patrol cars pulled in front of Price's Honda and officers told him to get out, according to the report. When Sweeney-Jones reached for the Honda's door handle, the report said Price backed his car into George's vehicle then drove into one of the patrol cars.

George fired three rounds at the Honda as it fled the scene, according to the report. Only one bullet hit the car, but it didn't penetrate it, the report said.

Sweeny-Jones gave chase in his patrol car, according to the report. Price crashed with a pickup and an SUV at the intersection of Philadelphia Pike and the Washington Street Extension, right in front of Saint Helena’s Church, according to the report.

Price fled on foot and hid behind bushes alongside the church, according to the report.

Price emerged from the bushes "with his right hand up and extended toward" Sweeney-Jones, according to the report. Sweeney-Jones said Price had a gun and that Price shot at him.

Sweeney-Jones returned fired and killed Price, according to the report.

Civilian witnesses provided varying accounts of the number of shots fired, according to the report. None said they saw anything in Price's hands, the report said.

Sweeney-Jones' body camera footage lacks audio for the first 30 seconds, according to the report. Price emerges from the bushes 18 seconds into the footage, the report said.

A footnote in the report cites the camera's user manual, which states the camera's default mode captures video, but not audio, for the 30 seconds before "event mode" is activated. There is no audio for the time the report says Price fired at Sweeney-Jones.

Man on bike killed in crash with trooper Saturday, police say he was a suspect

The report said a shell casing at the scene matched the gun found on Price and that ballistics testing on the gun determined it was fired one time.

"Ballistics testing was critical to the State’s conclusion," read a report footnote.

Sweeney-Jones manually activated his body camera after Price fell forward, which triggered the device's audio recorder, according to the report. Sweeney-Jones shouted for Price to show his hands, the report said, as blood began pooling underneath him.

State troopers arrived then and Sweeney-Jones told them, “He’s got a gun underneath him ... he’s been shot multiple times, he attempted to shoot at me,” the report said.

On his body camera, the report said Sweeney-Jones is heard asking another officer to check him because, "'he turned and shot at me, I don’t know if he got me.'"

Trooper-involved shooting kills 16-year-old in Dover

The report's conclusion uses this physical evidence to justify the killing of Price, but also relies on circumstantial evidence suggesting Price was unwilling to be captured alive.

A person who bought a handgun for Price — which he was not allowed to buy for himself — told investigators Price told him he wouldn't go back to jail, the report said.

The person told investigators Price admitted to using a gun in the April 9 shooting, but it had fallen out of his pants as he fled, according to the report.

The person told investigators Price believed there was a bounty on him because of that shooting and asked the person to buy him another gun for self-defense, the report said.

Price "'would rather die than turn himself in,'" this person told investigators, according to the report. "'They would have to take him in a box.'"

"Based on the available evidence and the application of expert opinion to that evidence, we have concluded that it was objectively reasonable for Officer Sweeney-Jones to believe that the use of deadly force upon Mr. Price was immediately necessary for the purpose of protecting himself and others from the unlawful use of deadly force by Mr. Price," the report concludes, freeing Sweeney-Jones of criminal liability in the killing.

Contact Adam Duvernay at (302) 319-1855 or aduvernay@delawareonline.com.