Man shot, killed after threatening Logan County deputies with gun, authorities say

A man was shot and killed by Logan County deputies when he threatened them with a gun Thursday evening, authorities said.According to the Sheriff's Office, deputies responded just before 5 p.m. to a report of a man walking down the street with a gun near Simmons and Douglas in Edmond.Witnesses told deputies that the armed man was hiding in the woods. Deputies took cover and spotted the man in the woods, clearly holding a firearm. They said the man, later identified as 64-year-old Marion Lee Holliday, seemed "irate" when they tried talking to him.Deputies said they spoke with Holliday, but he started raising his firearm at the deputies. Logan County Sheriff said that's when the deputies fired their weapons at him. Holliday died on scene.Authorities told KOCO they are not sure how many gunshots were fired on scene.The names of the deputies involved have not yet been released.The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation is now investigating the case.

A man was shot and killed by Logan County deputies when he threatened them with a gun Thursday evening, authorities said.

According to the Sheriff's Office, deputies responded just before 5 p.m. to a report of a man walking down the street with a gun near Simmons and Douglas in Edmond.

Advertisement

Witnesses told deputies that the armed man was hiding in the woods.

Deputies took cover and spotted the man in the woods, clearly holding a firearm. They said the man, later identified as 64-year-old Marion Lee Holliday, seemed "irate" when they tried talking to him.

Deputies said they spoke with Holliday, but he started raising his firearm at the deputies. Logan County Sheriff said that's when the deputies fired their weapons at him.

Holliday died on scene.

Authorities told KOCO they are not sure how many gunshots were fired on scene.

The names of the deputies involved have not yet been released.



The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation is now investigating the case.