Porter County prosecutor Brian Gensel announced Friday that a Portage Police Department officer who fatally shot a 39-year-old man in April "responded appropriately to the situation" and acted out of "self-defense," according to a press release.

William Spates, of Portage, was fatally shot during a traffic stop by Officer Grant Crizer, 34, on April 22 in the 5200 block of Royal Avenue in Portage, police said. Hours before, Spates had been released from the Porter County Jail after being arrested April 19 "for domestic battery and strangulation charges involving family members," according to the release.

Advertisement

The announcement came as a surprise to his widow.

"My husband always respected the police," Marina Spates said in a Facebook message. "He wouldn't want to take his own life. His babies, who he loved dearly, were only 2 and 4. He had something to live for, his children."

Advertisement

Crizer was placed on paid administrative leave after the April shooting. The Portage Police Department Shooting Review Board reviewed the incident and found that the shooting was "justified," according to Portage police Chief Troy Williams. As of Friday, Williams confirmed Crizer was back at work.

Williams said in a release Friday that the prosecutor's office determination "confirms that the response our officer took that evening based on Mr. Spates' actions were absolutely legal and justified, just as I had expected."

Before being taken to jail, Spates was transported to Porter Regional Hospital "because of physical distress complaints," according to the prosecutor.

"On the way to the hospital, Spates made comments to the transporting officer about not wanting to live if he was taken away from his family and asking what it would take for the officer to shoot him," Gensel said in the release.

Once Spates was cleared by hospital staff, he was taken to the jail, where he was read the terms of a no-contact order "preventing any contact with his wife and their children," and he also was "prohibited from being in the area of the family home on Brown Street," the release states.

While in jail, Spates violated the no-contact order "by attempting to call his wife numerous times," and while the two spoke briefly during some of the calls, "Spates was agitated and despondent," the release states.

Spates was bonded out of jail on April 21 by a family member, and he was supposed to stay in East Chicago with his mother, according to Gensel.

William Spates, of Portage, was killed by Portage police last month in this driveway on Royal Avenue. (Becky Jacobs / Post-Tribune )

At 1:47 a.m. on April 22, Crizer stopped Spates "for disregarding a stop sign at Brown Street and Mulberry Avenue," according to the release. Spates pulled into a driveway on Royal Avenue and gave false identification information "and appeared very emotional, indicating that he 'messed up' and didn't want to go back to jail," according to the prosecutor.

Advertisement

Crizer asked Spates to exit the car several times, and Spates instead "started up the car in an attempt to leave," according to the release. Crizer activated his stun gun, hitting Spates in the arm, and Spates put the vehicle in reverse and rammed Crizer's vehicle parked behind him in an attempt to push it out of the way, according to Gensel.

"Crizer had to jump out of the way to avoid being hit by the open door," the prosecutor said.

Crizer went to the front of the vehicle with his weapon drawn and continued to order Spates to comply, and "at that point, Crizer observed Spates reach for the gear shift, believing that Spates intended to put the vehicle in forward and hit him," the release states.

Crizer was boxed in by a fence and had no room to escape, and he "fired eight shots through the windshield and passenger window," according to the prosecutor.

Spates suffered "multiple gunshot injuries to the torso and head," according to the Porter County coroner's office. Toxicology reports for Spates had not been completed as of Thursday, according to Coroner Chuck Harris.

Williams previously said there was no body camera or dashcam footage of the incident, as the department does "not currently have that technology."

Advertisement

But Gensel said that physical evidence collected at the scene, including vehicle damage and witness reports of a vehicle loudly revving its engine, verifies the officer's story. Witness statements also support Crizer's verbal attempts to get Spates to comply before firing his weapon, the prosecutor said. Gensel added that statements from family members and other witnesses "about his recent state of mind corroborate the officer's observations," according to the release.

"Officer Crizer responded appropriately to the situation and his decision to discharge his weapon was done in the course of reasonable self-defense as a result of the actions taken by Spates," Gensel concluded in the release.

Williams said Crizer "will have to live with the decisions Mr. Spates chose that evening," and said he commends the officer "on his ability to survive an encounter like that."

"Officer Crizer did not go to work that night looking to be involved in shooting, but he also did not go to work looking to be murdered by Mr. Spates, who tried to run him over with a 4,000-pound vehicle," Williams said.

While Williams said his focus "is not to speak ill of the deceased," he also said he is "not here to sugarcoat Mr. Spates' proclivity for violence and getting himself arrested."

Spates was arrested 21 times in 20 years in Indiana and Illinois, according to Williams. Gensel said in his release that "there was previous history of domestic violence."

Advertisement

Some people "will want to dissect Officer Crizer's actions and his tenure as a police officer," but "it is only fair that the totality of Mr. Spates' criminal history be a part of the total narrative of this incident," Williams said.

Williams said Crizer "is a fundamentally sound, courteous and fair officer." Crizer was hired with the department in August 2014, serving with the Portage Police Department SWAT team. Crizer previously worked with Lake Station Police Department, and he had no disciplinary issues with either department, according to Williams.

Crizer previously received an Exception Service Award for an August 2015 incident in which he de-escalated a situation "without injury or incident" when an intoxicated driver raised his hands, mimicking a handgun pointed at Crizer and shouted "gun," Williams said.

Williams thanked the Porter County Sheriff's Office, with the assistance of Indiana State Police, for investigating the shooting and Gensel for reviewing the incident.

rejacobs@post-trib.com

Twitter @ruthyjacobs