Norman Smith (Source: LMDC)

Ofc. Kevin Smith (Source; LMPD)

Lt. Greg Burns (Source; LMPD)

Det. Dennis Beatty (Source: LMPD)

Det. Paul Paris (Source: LMPD)

LOUISVILLE, KY (WAVE) - The officer Louisville Metro Police say was shot after a chase near downtown Louisville Tuesday remains in the hospital Wednesday. They say Officer Kevin Smith's face was grazed by a bullet from the assault rifle 26-year-old Norman Smith was unloading on police. Police say Norman Smith than killed himself.



According to the court records WAVE 3 obtained, Norman Smith was released from prison on November 1. He was serving ten years after he pled guilty to manslaughter less than a year ago, January 19, 2010, but was released on time served. He was arrested in 2005 for shooting and killing Rayshon Myers on North 38th Street.



Tuesday Police say Norman Smith took off after they showed up to the apartments at 10th and West Jefferson responding to a call of shots fired. Four officers, Kevin Smith, Lieutenant Greg Burns, Detective Dennis Beatty and Paul Paris chased him to 19th and Nelligan where they say he got out of the car with his assault rifle, started firing and they fired back.



Police say after Officer Kevin Smith's face was grazed by a bullet and Lt. Burns was injured by shattered glass Norman Smith got back in his car and shot himself.



"I want to reiterate how dangerous it was, how serious it was. Two people, other citizens, considering what weaponry was used, could have lost their lives. Fortunately, no one did except the gunman who took his own life," says LMPD spokesperson Dwight Mitchell.



The injured officers were taken to the hospital, but even then it wasn't over. For hours police and swat swarmed the apartments where the original call came from, searching for the other person they say was involved in the shots fired call. They did not find him, but say they have spoken with his attorney and hope to interview him.



"That's why we want to talk to that individual. Maybe that person can let us know what was going on at that time," said Mitchell.



Without that person and with Norman Smith dead, it's something they may never know.



Officer Kevin Smith is currently on mdical leave while he recovers from his injuries. Lt. Burns was released from the hospital yesterday and he, Det. Beatty and Officer Paris are all on paid administrative leave since LMPD says they opened fire on Norman Smith.

Copyright 2011 WAVE News. All rights reserved.