SHARE Brian Leatherwood

By News Sentinel Staff

The son of a man shot and killed by a Knoxville police officer after the man allegedly attacked the officer said he didn't understand why police had to shoot his father because police knew he had mental issues and was not a violent man.

"He did have mental issues. He was schizophrenic and talked to himself," Bryan Capps said of his father, Paul Edward Capps. "From what I heard, he assaulted the cop and the cop shot him. I think it could have been handled way differently."

The E-911 Center received an assault call about 10:50 p.m. Friday from a woman at 3804 Probus Road in North Ridge Crossing (formerly called Christenberry Heights), according to Knoxville Police Department spokesman Darrell DeBusk.

The woman, who uses a wheelchair, said her son was assaulting her.

The first officer to arrive on the scene, Brian Leatherwood, was attacked by a man, later identified as Paul Capps, 47, when he entered the residence, DeBusk said.

In a news release, DeBusk described what followed: "During the attack the suspect forcibly obtained the officer's flashlight that he (then) used in his continued attack on the officer. During the attack Officer Leatherwood attempted to use his Taser, but it did not stop the assault. As the suspect continued to beat him with the flashlight, Officer Leatherwood used his service weapon to stop the threat."

Capps was pronounced dead at the scene.

Leatherwood was taken to the University of Tennessee Medical Center for treatment of non-life-threatening injuries.

The woman was taken to KPD headquarters for questioning.

An autopsy on the suspect was scheduled for later Saturday, DeBusk reported, adding, "During the investigation it was discovered that the suspect had a mental illness but was not taking any medication."

Bryan Capps said police had been to the address before and knew his father was nonviolent and had mental issues.

"I can't say this officer knew, but they came here before and every time left saying nothing was wrong. He was scared of cops," Bryan Capps said. "I don't think my dad realized he was attacking a cop, he just saw someone coming at him. I've never seen him lay a hand on anyone. I don't see why the cop couldn't have waited for backup.

"It is just sad. I'm not mad at the cop. I'm not saying he's a bad guy. He just didn't stop and assess the situation. None of us will know exactly what happened except my dad, the cop and my grandmother."

About 30 turned out for a candlelight vigil Saturday evening in front of where Paul Capps lived with his mother, Shirley Capps, on Probus Road.

Leatherwood will be placed on leave until the investigation is concluded ? standard procedure for an officer involved in shooting, DeBusk said.

Leatherwood is a 13-year veteran of the department.