Man kills five people and unborn baby in murder spree before shooting himself after being 'rejected from military service'

Shayne Riggleman, 22, murdered five people, including pregnant woman



Also ran over elderly woman and shot seventh victim before killing himself



Facebook post by Riggleman said military rejection made him upset



Five people have been killed after a gunman went on a murder spree before fatally shooting himself while being chased by officers.

Shayne Riggleman, 22, of Morgantown, West Virginia, also ran over a woman before shooting and wounding a seventh victim.

He shot himself dead after the multiple slaying, in which he also killed an unborn baby, as he sat in a car in Kentucky following a police chase.

Gun: He killed himself after the multiple slaying, in which he also killed an unborn baby, as he sat in a car in Kentucky following a police chase

‘It was very horrific to see it,’ State Police Captain James Merrill told the West Virginia Metro News. ‘It was one of those things you won't forget.’

Riggleman's last Facebook post before the shooting said he was upset about being rejected from joining the military despite being ‘fully capable’.

Three of the five victims in Morgantown on Monday night were Charles Richardson III, 49, his wife Karin Richardson, 50, and Robert Raber Jr, 30.

The fourth and fifth victims were the Richardson couple’s two children - Katrina Hudson, 22, who was six months pregnant, and Kevin Hudson, 17.

Baby bump: Katrina Hudson, 22, who was pregnant, was one of five victims from the shooting at a house in Morgantown, West Virginia, on Monday night Killed: Kevin Hudson, 17, left, and his mother Karin Richardson, 50, right, are both pictured on Facebook Biker: Charles Richardson III, 49, was killed along with four other people at the house in Morgantown on Monday

Two bodies were found by police in the kitchen, two in the bathroom and one in the living room.

'It was very horrific to see it. It was one of those things you won't forget' James Merrill

West Virginia State Police Captain





He then went to visit a friend in Fairchance, Pennsylvania, who ended up tipping off police.



Riggleman later ran over a woman after leaving. She is in a critical condition and was named by the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review as 60-year-old Sidney Lee Bush.



He then drove on to Kentucky, but stopped at an Exxon station in Roane County, West Virginia.

There he shot pump attendant Donald Nichols in the neck - and he was also left in a critical condition, but police said he is expected to recover.

Scene: Charles Richardson Jr stands outside a home in West Virginia on Tuesday, after his son and four other family members were shot to death

Facebook page: Riggleman's friends have been posting tribute messages on his profile page and set up a group on the social networking site to remember him

Other recent shooting sprees The Riggleman shooting spree was not the only one in the U.S. over the last week. Six people died over Labor Day weekend in New York after 15 separate gun incidents. At least 48 were injured and Mayor Michael Bloomberg blamed a national gun crime crisis.

Meanwhile four people died after a gunman opened fire at a Nevada IHOP on Tuesday.

Riggleman was later pulled over police in Lewis County, Kentucky, and shot and killed himself, reported the West Virginia Metro News.

Police found two rifles and a .22-calibre handgun in the car. They believe the killing spree would have continued if he had not been pulled over.

Other Facebook posts made recently by Riggleman included: ‘Revenge is a dish best served cold and God is the chef’.

Riggleman's friends have been posting tribute messages on his Facebook page and set up a group to remember him.

Dead: He killed himself after the multiple slaying, in which he also killed an unborn baby, as he sat in a car in Kentucky following a police chase

Saw: Riggleman's last Facebook post before the shooting said he was upset about being rejected from joining the military despite being 'fully capable'

Amber Christine Faulknier said: 'Omg Shayne! Why would you do this?! You had so many people to talk to and help you! I'm gonna miss you!'

'Why wouldn't they let me join the military? I'm fully capable, and there was no career for me!' Shayne Riggleman's last Facebook post



Another friend, Rachel Legg, posted: 'What the hell happened? You were trying so hard to get your life back. I am really sad to hear this.'



Police said the crime was 'heinous' but will not reveal any possible motive, although they did confirm Riggleman was an 'acquaintance' of the victims.



Riggleman's Facebook page revealed he was agnostic and a socialist.

Shooting spree: Shayne Riggleman killed five people before committing suicide



