A standoff ended Wednesday night when a man was found dead after allegedly shooting his father earlier in Pleasant Hills, police said.VIDEO: Watch Kelly Brennan's reportLocal police officers and the South Hills Community Emergency Response Team responded to the report of a shooting on Woodland Drive, near the Bill Green Shopping Center. Police said the suspected shooter -- later identified as 42-year-old Justin Hay -- was the son of the victim.The victim, who is in his 70s or 80s, suffered at least one gunshot wound and was in stable condition at UPMC Mercy, according to Pleasant Hills police.The CERT officers entered the home and found the son dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said.Dino Ruszala was a few streets away from Woodland Drive with his brother when he saw officers running down the street."All the cops came flying down. The one cop ran down the street with a shotgun. They came running up about 10 minutes later with the elderly gentleman on the stretcher, and the next thing you know all this happened with SWAT and all this stuff," Ruszala said.Multiple police departments were still at the scene around 9 p.m.Video: Watch video shared on u local by a witnessSlideshow: Photos from the shooting scene

A standoff ended Wednesday night when a man was found dead after allegedly shooting his father earlier in Pleasant Hills, police said.

VIDEO: Watch Kelly Brennan's report

Advertisement

Local police officers and the South Hills Community Emergency Response Team responded to the report of a shooting on Woodland Drive, near the Bill Green Shopping Center.

Police said the suspected shooter -- later identified as 42-year-old Justin Hay -- was the son of the victim.

The victim, who is in his 70s or 80s, suffered at least one gunshot wound and was in stable condition at UPMC Mercy, according to Pleasant Hills police.

The CERT officers entered the home and found the son dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said.

Dino Ruszala was a few streets away from Woodland Drive with his brother when he saw officers running down the street.

"All the cops came flying down. The one cop ran down the street with a shotgun. They came running up about 10 minutes later with the elderly gentleman on the stretcher, and the next thing you know all this happened with SWAT and all this stuff," Ruszala said.

Multiple police departments were still at the scene around 9 p.m.

Video: Watch video shared on u local by a witness

Slideshow: Photos from the shooting scene