Advertisement Motel standoff in South Fayette ends with suicide Several police departments, SWAT team and bomb squad involved Share Copy Link Copy

A weekend SWAT situation at a motel in South Fayette Township, near Bridgeville, ended with an armed man holding a teenage girl taking his own life, authorities said.The standoff ended after five hours Saturday evening. It began around 3:30 p.m. with a call to South Fayette police about an armed man barricaded inside a room.VIDEO: Watch the latest report from Sheldon IngramThe Allegheny County medical examiner confirms Walter Morris, 46, of Pittsburgh, was holding a 15-year-old Oklahoma girl at the Knights Inn on Hickory Grade Road.Missing for two days, investigators in her hometown of Duncan, Oklahoma, used the teen’s cellphone and the records to track her. “We began to ping her phone and a phone that they gave us that was on the records that she had been contacting what they called an online boyfriend,” said Duncan Police Chief Danny Ford.Morris' sister, Katheryn Saunoras, said Monday her brother wrote a suicide note to the family just moments before taking his own life.It was written on a Knights Inn note pad and shared with Pittsburgh's Action News 4 by Saunoras.The note is very brief, "remember that I love you. But goodbye".Saunoras says her brother worked as a mechanic, convenience store clerk and a bouncer but he was not known as a pedophile."I feel bad for the girl. I wish this would have never happened. I wish she didn't have to be in the room when my brother shot his brains out", says Saunoras.Saunoras says Morris met the girl on Meet Me and then continued their connection on Facebook, where they each posted on June 22 that they were married to each other."Did he have bad judgment? Yes, absolutely, my brother used poor judgement," Saunoras said.They contacted the local FBI about a possible abduction. The detective tracked the pair to the motel. Police say the teen had been missing for a few days.VIDEO: Watch Laurie Penco's reportMultiple police officers from several departments, as well as the Allegheny County SWAT team and bomb squad, had the motel surrounded.SWAT team members entered the motel room after hearing a single gunshot around 9:15 p.m. and found the teenager. She was taken to Children’s Hospital for evaluation, but police say she was not hurt.Investigators say the pair met on the Internet.It was a call that Oklahoma investigators made to Morris’ cellphone that allowed them to find the pair.When the teen’s phone went dead somewhere in Ohio, they reached out to Morris and started tracking him.“So when investigators made that call the person answered and said in Ohio when they had stopped, where we had pinged her phone at, she had left him. I don’t think he actually said ran off. But we didn’t particularly believe that,” said Ford.Allegheny County police said at no point did Morris threaten the girl, but they weren’t taking any chances.“It was always a fear for her life because sometimes we deal with these situations it can be a murder-suicide. That’s why we took our time with negotiations and made sure when we made entry it was OK,” said Allegheny County Police Assistant Superintendent Jim Morton.