Police say the driver of a car being chased by state troopers was killed and four others were hurt when he crashed into another vehicle while exiting Interstate 376 in Oakland early Wednesday morning.The man who died has been identified as Richard Giles Jr., 20, of Braddock.The state police patrol the interstate, even in the city, and they stopped the inbound vehicle near the Squirrel Hill Tunnel at about 2:30 a.m. after seeing a traffic violation in a construction zone."The trooper detected a strong odor of marijuana inside the vehicle, attempted to identify the occupants and the driver fled the scene," Trooper Matthew Jardine said.The trooper chased the vehicle along the Parkway East as the vehicle took the Oakland exit to Bates Street, Jardine said."At the end of the Bates Street exit, the driver failed to negotiate a turn and struck another vehicle head-on," he said.SLIDESHOW: Photos from the crash scene in OaklandGiles was pronounced dead at the crash scene. Three of his passengers, as well as the driver of the other car, were taken to the hospital with unknown injuries.Police identified Giles' passengers as a 21-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman from Washington, Pennsylvania, and an 18-year-old man from Forest Park, Georgia.Police said two of Giles' passengers had guns, and a third was wanted on a warrant. They did not specify which persons were armed or which one was wanted, citing the ongoing investigation and the possibility of charges.

Police say the driver of a car being chased by state troopers was killed and four others were hurt when he crashed into another vehicle while exiting Interstate 376 in Oakland early Wednesday morning.

The man who died has been identified as Richard Giles Jr., 20, of Braddock.

Advertisement Related Content Photos: Parkway East chase ends with fatal crash near Oakland exit

The state police patrol the interstate, even in the city, and they stopped the inbound vehicle near the Squirrel Hill Tunnel at about 2:30 a.m. after seeing a traffic violation in a construction zone.

"The trooper detected a strong odor of marijuana inside the vehicle, attempted to identify the occupants and the driver fled the scene," Trooper Matthew Jardine said.

The trooper chased the vehicle along the Parkway East as the vehicle took the Oakland exit to Bates Street, Jardine said.

"At the end of the Bates Street exit, the driver failed to negotiate a turn and struck another vehicle head-on," he said.

SLIDESHOW: Photos from the crash scene in Oakland

Giles was pronounced dead at the crash scene. Three of his passengers, as well as the driver of the other car, were taken to the hospital with unknown injuries.

Police identified Giles' passengers as a 21-year-old man and a 19-year-old woman from Washington, Pennsylvania, and an 18-year-old man from Forest Park, Georgia.

Police said two of Giles' passengers had guns, and a third was wanted on a warrant. They did not specify which persons were armed or which one was wanted, citing the ongoing investigation and the possibility of charges.