NEWARK -- The details surrounding the fatal police shooting of a 23-year-old city man Tuesday night were slowly emerging Wednesday, as sources and documents reveal the deadly encounter included a crash, a passenger in the car, and the victim pulling a gun on police.

Newark detectives encountered Hakim McNair as part of an investigation into a recent shooting at South Orange Avenue and South 16th Street, according to a law enforcement document obtained by NJ Advance Media.

Investigators learned Tuesday night the suspected shooter was in a Honda parked outside a house near South Orange Avenue on South 17th Street, where police found the car and boxed in the vehicle, the document said.

McNair and a passenger, who was not immediately identified, were in the Honda and refused orders to get out, according to the document. Using a flashlight, police saw the driver pull a gun from an area near the driver's seat and door.

Seeing the weapon, an officer fired two shots, according to the report. McNair then drove in reverse and hit a police vehicle, turned and accelerated toward the police when the detective fired two more shots.

McNair drove away from the shooting scene on South 17th Street with police in pursuit, according to the document and a law enforcement source. During the chase, the Honda crashed into a police car before hitting another vehicle.

Officers rushed to the crash and managed to remove a passenger from the Honda, the document stated. When the Honda's door wouldn't open, police smashed a window to reach McNair.

Emergency medical responders freed McNair from the wreck, but he was pronounced dead around 11 p.m. at University Hospital. There were no further details about the passenger in the document.

Essex County Chief Assistant Prosecutor Thomas Fennelly declined to comment Wednesday on many of the details outlined in the document. He did confirm that only one officer shot at McNair, though he declined to say how many times the man was shot.

After the shooting, Fennelly confirmed a "crowd" gathered at the University Hospital, and Newark and Rutgers police officers responded to the scene and "deescalated the situation." He declined to go into further detail about what happened at the hospital, but said that he was not aware of any arrests resulting from the incident.

A hospital spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Court records show McNair had a long criminal history, including a conviction in 2013 on charges of assaulting a law enforcement officer and resisting arrest. He had also pleaded guilty to weapons and heroin distribution charges, records show. On April 23, 2014 - exactly three years and two days before his death - he was sentenced to three years in prison. It is unclear how long he actually served, but had been arrested three times since then, with drugs, weapons, and resisting arrest and eluding charges all pending against him when he was killed.

His death came one day after after a federal monitor released an optimistic report on the progress the police department is making on reforming many of its policies and procedures, including use of force.

Reached by phone Wednesday, a man who declined to give his name but identified himself as McNair's grandfather, said he did not know much about the events that led up to his grandson's death.

"It was on the news," he said.

"It's not a very good feeling."

The man said McNair lived in Newark, but he wasn't sure why he was interacting with police Tuesday night.

"We are just dealing with this," he said. "But, there's nothing really you can do. The boy is dead."

Johnnie Mae Mcnair N TWIN LOVE U SORRY FOR Y'ALL LOST 😢 Posted by Danielle Suckerfree Felton on Wednesday, April 26, 2017

Staff reporter Marisa Iati contributed to this report.

Jessica Mazzola may be reached at jmazzola@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @JessMazzola. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Noah Cohen may be reached at ncohen@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @noahyc. Find NJ.com on Facebook.