Moments after a state trooper stopped a car late Tuesday afternoon on Route 22 for following another vehicle too closely, the driver “took off.”

The trooper gave dispatchers the driver’s name and went after him.

Seconds later and a quarter-mile west, Rodney D. Sigley Jr., 28, of Bethlehem slammed his Acura into the back of a Lehigh University school bus with enough force to flip it onto its roof, police said. Sigley’s car burst into flames.

Sigley was pronounced dead at the Route 22 West scene, a half-mile east of Airport Road in Bethlehem. In the bus, the driver and 18 members of Lehigh’s rowing team were injured, but none seriously.

State police still are piecing together the events that preceded the crash, including the trooper’s traffic stop.

Troopers said their investigation will involve analyzing hours of video from police dashboard cameras and interviewing dozens of witnesses.

Within hours of the accident, Rodney Sigley Sr. and his wife, Nancy, received “the phone call no parent ever wants to hear or believe is possible,” the father wrote on Facebook.

The elder Sigley said his son struggled with the “demon” of drugs and the accident on westbound Route 22 in Bethlehem was “no one’s fault but his own.”

Reached at home Wednesday morning, Sigley Sr. said little beyond what he already posted on social media.

“Again we’ve lost a kid to drugs,” he said, speaking generally about the Lehigh Valley community. “We’ve lost another kid to drugs.”

He said his son had struggled with drugs for some time.

“He was trying to do right, he was trying to do the best he can,” the father said, sounding both sad and resigned. “Children need to realize what they are getting into.”

His Facebook post also said:

“I know my son’s faults and I know what he has done wrong, but at the end of the day he will always be our son who we love dearly, I pray to the Lord above that anyone who truly knows Rodney or our family does not judge without really seeing the person he was and will always be … A very kind and gentle giant with a heart of gold that let a demon in and could not get rid of it!”

Trooper Marc Allen confirmed Wednesday that just before the crash, the younger Sigley’s car had been pulled over. The trooper talked to Sigley, got his name and birth date, then walked back to his cruiser to run a check on him.

Sigley drove off, and as the trooper called in to report the fleeing car, he followed the car on Route 22 until it crashed, Allen said.

“Until we review the dashboard cameras, we can’t really call it a pursuit,” Allen said. “The trooper had the vehicle in sight, but very quickly he came upon the crash. He never really actually caught up to the vehicle.”

Allen said the trooper described the moments leading to the crash as “very fast.”

“Within a very short distance, the trooper suddenly sees the bus rolling over,” Allen said Wednesday.

At the accident scene the night before, Allen said it was hard to explain how the bus flipped.

“Under normal circumstances, it takes a lot of force to knock over a bus,” he said. “But until we have the accident reconstruction, you can’t be too sure what happened.”

A trucker who was directly behind the Route 22 crash said Wednesday that the car hit the bus so hard the bus was launched into the air.

“The whole bus went straight up and straight down, and landed on its roof,” Stephanie Morgan, the trucker, said Wednesday. “The car nailed it so hard that I’m amazed none of the students are dead.”

Morgan said she was behind the bus in Route 22 West’s right lane, approaching Airport Road, when Sigley’s car zipped between her tractor-trailer and a Subaru Outback on her left.

“He just missed the Outback that was right next to the median,” she said. “He curved in front of me and nailed the rear corner of the bus on the left side. He hit it at a 90-degree angle.

“It was astonishing to see that bus going up in the air,” she said. “The only thing I figured was, if that bus lands, is it going to crush the people inside or is it going to catch on fire?”

The bus did not burn. As it dropped across both lanes, its front end hit the concrete median on the left, and Sigley’s car spun into the median, cracking the concrete, Morgan said.

The car then moved back across the highway, catching fire as it stopped in front of her truck at the guardrail. Morgan, who survived a serious truck fire in 2006, said the flames alarmed her.

“There was fire on his car,” she said. “The car was 3 feet in front of me, and my truck was pretty much a ticking time bomb with fuel underneath me.

“I got out with a fire extinguisher. Then a state trooper came up to me and took the extinguisher and put the fire out.

“I asked him, ‘Is the driver OK? Did he hit and run?’ And he says, ‘He’s in the car on the driver’s side. He’s dead.'”

Across the highway, Morgan saw the Lehigh athletes emerging from the bus. Morgan said they didn’t seem to be panicking.

“The students were rushing out, and as far as I know all of them got out,” she said. “I saw two of them on the ground and I saw two of them on stretchers being taken to ambulances.

“I do feel bad for them because they will remember that trip for the rest of their lives.”

On Wednesday, the Lehigh County coroner’s office said Sigley died of multiple blunt-force injuries. His death was ruled an accident.

The driver of the bus, 60-year-old Terry Johnson of Hellertown, and 18 students suffered minor injuries in the crash. They were treated at a local hospital and released.

The bus driver’s son, Travis Johnson, said his father was recovering from his injuries. The team was on its way to practice when the bus was hit, he said.

According to online court records, Sigley was wanted on five traffic warrants in Lehigh County and one in Northampton County.

The warrants were for summary offenses that included driving without a license, driving an unregistered vehicle, driving without a valid inspection, not having an emission inspection and lack of insurance.

Sigley also had about 15 traffic tickets dating back to 2011, according to court records.

In 2009, Sigley pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges in a home invasion robbery in Palmer Township. In court, Sigley testified he was “stupid” and “immature” in 2007 when he and several others barged in on a party to rob drug dealers they knew.

At the time of that hearing, Sigley said he was the father of two children. Sigley’s family attended the sentencing and described him as a follower and not a leader, who had changed since his arrest.

In the robbery, the men stole a cell phone, $86 and cocaine, according to court testimony.

Sigley was a 2006 graduate of Freedom High School who took classes at Northampton Community College and worked as a landscaper. His Facebook page features a picture of two small children and a dark-colored Acura CL.

After the crash, the Acura, burned and battered, sat about 50 feet to the east of the bus, along the right lane. The bus lay upside-down across the westbound lanes.

Lehigh University released a statement of concern and condolences after the accident.

“We know that the campus community will rally in support of these students and staff as they make a complete recovery, and we will continue to keep them, as well as the young man who lost his life in this accident and his family, in our thoughts,” the statement says.

Lehigh’s Brown and White student newspaper reported online that the crew team members went to Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest and other hospitals for treatment of back and knee injuries and possible concussions. The school is offering counseling services to those affected by the crash.

State police Capt. Brian Tobin said he expects the crash reconstruction and investigation to take several weeks to conclude.

“Given these circumstances, it does take time, but we owe it to the persons involved and the public to make every effort to get it right,” Tobin said. “They deserve no less than our best. That’s what they will get.”

fwarner@mcall.com

610-820-6508