The deadly use of force by 11 local, state and federal law enforcement officers who opened fire on a Middletown-area man suspected of killing a state trooper last year was justified, the Delaware Department of Justice said Tuesday.

Burgon Sealy Jr. was mortally wounded outside his parents’ house, where he rained gunfire on hundreds of officers during a 21-hour standoff. The chaos ended with pink insulation clinging to wallboard and windows blasted out of the white single-family home by explosive devices police used in hopes of convincing Sealy to surrender.

The 26-year-old man fled to the house after he killed Delaware State Police Cpl. Stephen Ballard on April 26, 2017, according to the state.

"The investigation of the facts and circumstances fully support the reasonableness of each officer's belief that his life or the lives of others were in danger," the report states. "That belief was not formed recklessly or negligently."

The Delaware Department of Justice investigates all use of deadly force by law enforcement in the state. In this case, it was tasked with examining the decisions of 11 officers who shot at Sealy. The officers belonged to several agencies: Delaware State Police, New Castle County Police, Wilmington Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

State prosecutors' decision justifying the use of deadly force was welcomed, but not surprising, State Fraternal Order of Police President Fred Calhoun said.

"We're pleased with the decision. We had no doubt that it was going to be a justified shooting based on the information we had," Calhoun said. "The circumstances that led up to that alone justified the use of deadly force."

Now that the decision has been released, Calhoun said the involved officers and agents can continue the healing process.

"People don't realize that when these officers engage in this type of incident, it's traumatic for them, too," he said.

"No one really thinks how they are going to deal with that and what impact that has on their lives," Calhoun said. "They assume that we are robots and we are not. We're human beings, just like everybody else.

"This kind of helps them evolve into the healing process."

The incident started just after noon on a Wednesday. Ballard was on routine patrol and responded to the Wawa on Pulaski Highway in Bear. He approached the driver of a "suspicious" vehicle backed into a space, and asked the driver for identification, according to the report. The driver complied.

Ballard then went to the passenger side of the vehicle and asked the passenger for identification, the report states. The passenger, whose door was open, had one foot outside the vehicle and asked why he had to give identification. The passenger then gave Ballard his ID and Ballard asked him to step out of the car, the report states.

As he got out of the car, the passenger "began to struggle" with Ballard and witnesses heard shots, the report said. As Ballard attempted to take cover, the passenger followed Ballard and fired additional rounds at him at close range after the officer fell to the ground, according to the report.

Ballard died from his injuries.

Police identified the suspect as Sealy, who lived on St. Michael Drive in Middletown. Sealy's father, Burgon Sealy Sr., notified police that his son called him and said that he shot an officer at the Wawa.

The father advised police that his son told him he was at home in Middletown and stated that he would shoot and kill anyone that came to the residence, the report states.

State police activated a special operations response team and county police engaged their special weapons and tactics team. At about 1:30 p.m. state police special operations officers arrived at Sealy's home with a motorcade of vehicles, including a wheeled armored personnel carrier designed for military and law enforcement use known as a Lenco BearCat.

State officers "immediately began taking a high volume of rifle fire from the second-floor window of the residence," the report states. When the county SWAT team arrived shortly afterward, Sealy continued to fire on them, according to the report.

"Numerous rounds struck police vehicles from DSP and NCCPD," the report said.

The SWAT team deployed chemical agents into the residence in an effort to "dislodge Mr. Sealy from his position," the report said. A state trooper returned fire into Sealy's window.

Eventually, Sealy stopped firing and police attempted to convince him to surrender, the report states.

During calls with his father, Sealy had said "I'm gonna die today. I got this, I don't know if you know what the f**k went on but I think I just killed maybe two or three more cops. I been shooting out this f**king window with the AR-15 for a while," according to the report.

He also told his father he "didn't know if (he) should just walk outside right now and start shooting and go out in a blaze of glory or wait here," the report states.

During a call with his mother, the report said Sealy told her he shot a cop and was not going to jail.

Police repeatedly attempted to communicate with Sealy by phone and loudspeaker, but all meaningful communication ended in the early evening, the report said.

At night, the FBI hostage rescue team deployed officers to the rear of the house in a BearCat armored vehicle, breached the front door of the home with explosives and dismantled the garage door, the report states.

At that point, law enforcement robots were sent into the home to located Sealy, and aerial drones were deployed around the residence, the report said.

Sealy fired numerous rounds at the robot and disabled it, the report said, and around 4:30 a.m., a single shot was heard.

The Pennsylvania State Police responded with a ROOK armored vehicle and began pulling down the exterior of the second floor rear bedroom to allow officers a better view to confirm whether Sealy was still alive, the report said. At about 9:16 a.m., Sealy fired numerous rounds from the first floor, striking the ROOK but not the Pennsylvania trooper operating it.

Moments later, perimeter officers reported Sealy was moving to the front door of the home, the report said.

"Mr. Sealy exited the residence wearing a protective respirator and holding a gun in his right hand as he turned and walked in the direction of tactical personnel stationed on St. Michael Drive," the report states.

Eleven law enforcement officers simultaneously discharged their weapons, striking Sealy, according to the report.

Sealy fell to the ground on his back, dropping the gun in his right hand, the report said. He then appeared to be reaching for another handgun in his waistband. As a result, the report said, officers fired additional shots.

Paramedics pronounced Sealy dead at the scene, the report said.

Police recovered a Glock 17 loaded with five rounds of ammunition and a Glock 19 loaded with 23 rounds of ammunition from the yard where Sealy fell to the ground. They also found an MP15 rifle, a Glock 26, a .45 Taurus handgun, and a 9 millimeter Taurus throughout the house along with 187 shell casings.

The Department of Justice said it conducted a thorough investigation of all statements and reports and concluded that the use of force would not be subject to criminal prosecution.

"Mr. Sealy had already killed one officer and repeatedly attempted to kill others during their encounter with him as he fired his weapons from inside the residence," the report said.

"At the time deadly force was used against Mr. Sealy it was objectively reasonable, based on the facts available to each of the officers who discharged their weapons, to conclude that Mr. Sealy intended to discharge his firearm in their direction again."

Contact Christina Jedra at (302) 324-2837, cjedra@delawareonline.com or on Twitter @ChristinaJedra.

RELATED STORIES:

Delaware says goodbye to Cpl. Stephen Ballard

Standoff ends in Middletown; suspect in Delaware trooper death killed

Fear spreads through Middletown-area neighborhood