Dan Scanlan

Joann Dingle-Hall sat in a lawn chair in front of her home on East 19th Street Wednesday morning, only a few feet from a blood stain where police shot and killed her husband hours earlier.

She said she was right there as police dragged 57-year-old Selwyn Aubrey Hall out of the Chevrolet Equinox still parked in the driveway, then shot him several times.

The Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office said Hall struggled with two officers called to the scene as a follow-up to an earlier domestic battery. They both used Tasers on him, but the devices were not effective, Sheriff’s Office Director Ron Lendvay said. Then Hall grabbed and “gained control” of one officer’s Taser, and that’s when Officer Ryan L. McGee fired eight times, Lendvay said.

“He had it in his hand,” Lendvay said. “I won’t characterize it any further until all the interviews are complete.”

But Dingle-Hall said the confrontation went down far differently, adding that she “did not call them to kill my husband.” She said she first watched what happened from her window, then ran out to be beside her husband.

“He did not reach for the Taser. He did not. I stood right there. They will dress it up the way they want to dress it up,” Dingle-Hall said, pointing to the bullet impact mark on the Chevrolet. “I stood next to my husband and watched him get brutally shot down like a dog. They beat him on this side of the truck.”

The incident began as a domestic dispute callout just before 8 p.m. Tuesday, and it was violent, Lendvay said. It included Hall “flipping her out of a chair to the ground and dragging her through a yard,” then tossing her belongings out of the house, the director said. Dingle-Hall fled to a neighbor’s house to call police. Hall, who had violated a 2015 domestic violence injunction for protection, left before officers arrived.

Officers were called back just after 12:30 a.m. when Hall returned to the scene, but he had gone when they arrived. Then the officer who wrote up the original case returned with backup about 1 a.m. and found Hall inside his car in the driveway. They told him he was being arrested for the earlier incident and ordered him to get out. But Hall would not, Lendvay said.

“He became combative and physically resisted officers as they struggled with him to take him into custody,” Lendvay said. “Both officers deployed Tasers in an attempt to gain compliance and the struggle escalated.”

Lendvay said they won’t know how many times Hall was shot until the autopsy.

As to the discrepancy between the Sheriff’s Office and Dingle-Hall, Lendvay said everyone at a scene like this is “seeing it from a different perspective.”

“That goes for officers. That goes for civilians,” Lendvay said. “All that testimony has to be taken into account as a whole before you draw any conclusions.”

Hall has a lengthy arrest record, with police handing out his 26-page history. He also pleaded guilty to a 2015 domestic battery against Dingle-Hall, who filed for a domestic violence injunction a few weeks later. Police arrived to their Franklin Arms Apartments home at the time and found Dingle-Hall lying in a bloody hallway in the fetal position. She had several deep lacerations to her face, according to the arrest report. She said he had also held her face in a toilet.

McGee is a four-year officer, and Lendvay said this was his first police-involved shooting. The female officer with him was not identified. The protocol is for the State Attorney’s Office to determine if the shooting was justified, and then the Sheriff’s Office conducts its own internal review. However, the most recent one reviewed was from March 2016, according to the Sheriff’s Office.

The Fraternal Order of Police union issued a brief statement on the shooting on Facebook at 11 a.m.

“We are very fortunate that our officers were unscathed by a suspect who apparently chose to make horrible decisions which led to this terrible incident,” it said. “Please keep the officers in your thoughts and prayers as their instantaneous decisions ensured the safety of the victims, themselves and the community.”

This is the third time Jacksonville police have shot somebody this year — two fatal and one ended with the suspect killing himself. Last year there were nine, three of which were fatal, according to Times-Union records.

Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549