Newport News’ top prosecutor has ruled that a city police officer was justified in shooting and killing an armed man during an early morning police raid at a Jefferson Avenue bar last spring.

The report from Newport News Commonwealth’s Attorney Howard Gwynn describes a tense and chaotic scene that broke out after-hours — just before 5 a.m. — at the Pondo Café & Lounge on April 29, 2017.

Caleb “C.J.” Jackson Jr. — a bar patron who might have been high on bath salts — began acting erratically, yelling and screaming, the report said. At one point, he took out a 9-mm pistol and waved it around at three people.

Jackson soon shot several rounds, striking an employee in the chest, the report said.

“Please come in and save my life,” the man told 911 dispatchers as he bled. Meanwhile, the employee’s wife and a customer crouched in fear in other places in the bar.

The Newport News Police Department’s Tactical Operations Unit — the equivalent of a SWAT team — eventually broke down the locked front door and barged in.

After turning a corner and going down a short hallway, Sgt. Perry A. Bartels — the first tactical officer inside — approached a glass interior doorway that led to the main bar, Gwynn’s report said. Through the glass, Bartels saw a man with a silver gun “darting in-and-out from behind an interior door at the back of the bar.”

“I see him,” he told the officers behind him.

“Sgt. Bartels then observed the gunman square up his shoulders to face him and raise the gun to his waist,” the report said. “Sgt. Bartels fired three shots from his rifle, striking and killing the gunman.”

Gwynn’s report stopped short of the initial statement from police last May that Jackson also “pointed” the gun at the officer after raising it. The report did not say whether Bartels fired through the glass doors, or opened them first before firing.

Jackson, 35, of Pear Avenue in Newport News, was hit once — with a gunshot wound to the head and neck — and was pronounced dead at the scene.

Ralph Patrick, the employee who had been shot in the chest, was found bleeding in a corner. He was taken to Riverside Regional Medical Center and survived his wounds. Jackson’s friend, Albert Jones, was found safe, lying face down behind a jukebox. Patrick’s wife, Kimberly Patrick, was also found safe, hiding in the kitchen.

Gwynn did not return phone calls Friday about his office’s report. But in ruling the shooting justified, his office said deadly force is warranted if an officer has “probable cause to believe that a suspect poses a threat of serious physical harm to others.”

“Based on these facts, it is clear that Caleb Jackson Jr. posed an imminent threat of serious physical harm to the three hostages inside the bar, and to police officers attempting to rescue them,” the report said. “Therefore, Sgt. Bartels’ use of deadly force in the tragic death of Mr. Jackson was justified by the facts and the law.”

No body cameras

Many Newport News police officers, to include tactical officers, have been issued body cameras in recent years to capture what they see and hear during their encounters with people. That’s to give a real-time — and independent — recording of events from the officer’s vantage point.

But Bartels was not wearing his body camera during the fatal raid, Gwynn’s report said. “Due to the urgency of the situation, team members were equipped with minimal protective gear and only one active body camera” was being used, the report said.

The one tactical officer who had his body camera was in the back, and his footage didn’t capture the fatal encounter.

Sequence of events

Gwynn’s report gives a detailed summary of what led up to the shooting that morning at the Pondo Café, located at 5832 Jefferson Ave., just south of Briarfield Road.

Albert Jones, who was well-known to the bar’s employees, would often stop off at the bar after closing time to help with “after-hours cleaning and stocking,” the report said. But on that morning, he brought along his friend, Jackson, who was not known to the staff.

An employee let both men in through the back door. “There were friendly exchanges” between Jones, Jackson and Patrick, Gwynn’s report said, with the three men sharing a drink while Patrick’s wife finished cleaning the bar.

But at one point, Jackson “just snapped,” Jones told police.

“Jackson pulled out a gun, started cursing at Jones, and snatched a cell phone from Jones’s hand,” the report said. “Jackson then fired the gun. Jones dropped to the ground as Jackson continued ranting.”

Jones told police that Jackson had “gone off like a schizophrenic,” that his eyes were “as big as saucers,” and that he wouldn’t respond to pleas to calm down. But it was Jackson himself who first called 911, saying he was barricaded, that people were “after him” and would “break into the bar to attack him.”

That call — which police said came in at 4:51 a.m. — soon got disconnected. But dispatchers called back. Someone picked up the phone but didn’t say anything. Instead, dispatchers heard a man yelling, followed by four gunshots.

Dispatchers then called the Pondo Café’s landline phone, Gwynn’s report said. Ralph Patrick, the bar’s employee, picked up the line. About that time, police officers arrived outside the building, but couldn’t get inside because the doors were locked.

Patrick tried to go to the front door to let them in, the report said, but Jackson then fired two more shots.

“Patrick told dispatchers he had been shot in the chest by one of those shots,” the report said. “Patrick begged police to bust the door down, saying, ‘Please come in and save my life,’” and that he was “laying here dying” in a corner.

A “tactical situation” was declared at 5:06 a.m., police said. Gwynn’s report doesn’t say what time the tactical team arrived on the scene, but they met in the front of the Pondo to “plan their entry.”

Meanwhile, Patrick, still on the line with dispatchers, could be heard telling Jackson to calm down. Patrick said he was bleeding “a lot” from his chest and was feeling lightheaded, the report said. “He said he would die if police did not enter and rescue him.”

The tactical officers tried to use a breaching tool to break the reinforced glass front door of the Pondo, but that didn’t work. They then fired a “breaching shotgun” at the door several times, but the gun got jammed. A tactical officer then began kicking at the thick glass door until it broke loose from its frame.

Toxicology report

After Jackson was shot and killed, crime scene technicians found a Ruger 9mm pistol near his body — with nine rounds still in the magazine and one casing jammed in the ejection port, Gwynn’s report said. Seven spent cartridge cases from that gun were found in the bar. Two bullet holes were found on the wall near where Jackson had been standing.

A toxicology report indicated that Jackson had Ethylpentylone in his blood. Sometimes referred to as “bath salts,” that’s a synthetic stimulant that can cause confusion, aggressive and violent behavior, as well as “paranoia, hallucinations, and delusions,” the report said.

Bartels, 48, who served in the Army before becoming a police officer, has been with the Newport News Police Department since 1994. He’s been on the tactical team for 20 years, and is now an instructor for the unit.

Gwynn’s report said the evidence matched up with police and witness’ stories, and must be taken from the officer’s vantage point — including that the gunman had already shot someone and that there were three hostages in the bar.

In a statement to the media last May, then-Police Chief Richard Myers said it appeared that the wounded Pondo employee “was going into medical distress,” and that “further delays” in going in “could have cost him his life.” Myers said police “acted with professionalism, courage, and putting their safety at risk to save a life,” and that his early information “gives me pride in the work of these men and women.”

The Daily Press asked the Newport News Police Department Friday for the agency’s reaction to Gwynn’s ruling, as well as the time the tactical team arrived on scene that morning, and the department’s policy on body camera usage. But police spokeswoman Kelly King said the department would not be able to provide answers until Monday.

Prior shooting

This is Bartels’ second fatal shooting in the line of duty.

On Nov. 6, 2011, he shot and killed Robert Christopher Burchfield on Spring Trace Road as an armed Burchfield held the mother of his child hostage during a 45-minute standoff after a high-speed chase.

In that shooting — ruled justified in 2012 — police said that Burchfield, 40, of Hampton, used the woman as a shield. He also demanded a cell phone during the incident, with Bartels saying he overheard the woman telling Burchfield that she wanted a phone so she could call her children. Bartels opened fire when he got an open look.

State regulators temporarily stripped the Pondo Café liquor license last May. The doors were locked at the Pondo on Friday, and the phone was disconnected. A nearby business owner said the Pondo had been sold.