Chicago Police Department officials Friday praised two officers who dived into the McKinley Park lagoon, in uniform, to rescue a man.

The man's family, however, blamed the officers for not doing more to save his brother, who drowned after officers watched him disappear beneath the surface.

Advertisement

A day after the incident, the sequence of events leading up to the death of Rafael Correa and the rescue of David Correa remained as murky as the waters in which they struggled.

David Correa, 23, said Friday that he and his brother made it onto an island in the lagoon and only started to swim to shore after the officers ordered them to do so. That's when they got into trouble and Rafael, 32, drowned.

Advertisement

Officers said they found the men struggling in the water, hanging onto tree limbs, unable to make it to the lagoon's island, but insistent that they could swim back to shore.

A Chicago police spokesman said the department has no plans to investigate the death any further, and Correa's family said that, for now, it will not file a complaint.

Swimmers since their days growing up in Guadalajara, the brothers were drinking beer near the Southwest Side lagoon when they decided to swim out, wearing pants and work boots, to the island, covered with shrubbery.

Within a few minutes, two teenage girls alerted Officers Daniel Pokrajac and David Hoffenkamp, who were writing parking tickets nearby, that two drunken men appeared to be drowning, police said.

"We could hear some people in the water, on the island part, 100 feet from shore," Pokrajac said Friday.

"Our sergeant said: `If you can get on the island, get on the island.' They couldn't get on the island. They felt OK to swim to us," Hoffenkamp said.

But the officers then saw one brother dip underwater.

"He said, `I can't make it. I'm not gonna make it,'" said Pokrajac. "We watched the one guy go under, and he didn't come back up."

Advertisement

Pokrajac, an ex-Marine, and Hoffenkamp, a former lifeguard, stripped off their duty belts and jumped in.

They remember David Correa going down twice. Officers back-kicked their way to David, then pushed him to shore.

"When I came up, I couldn't see him," David Correa said of Rafael. "My mind just erased, and I wanted to get to shore."

Pokrajac then dove into the lagoon to look for Rafael Correa, but couldn't find him.

At the Correa residence, a red-brick two-flat in the 4200 block of South Albany Avenue, the father of the men charged that police could have done more to save Rafael.

"The police could have called lifeguards, but they didn't. They didn't do anything to protect him," said the father, Rafael. "They didn't cooperate to save his life or they did it too late."

Advertisement

Both officers said they did everything they could to save the lives of both brothers and wished they could have.

Rafael's wife of six years Isabel, 21, described him as ambitious and hardworking. He called her Thursday to ask her to join him at the park. He often went there to meditate, walk and play soccer with his two sons, 2 and 4. But Isabel was tired. Correa said he would be home soon.

"I'm trying to be strong for my children," Isabel, a housewife, said through tears. "I loved him very much. I love him very much."

She remembered that when first meeting her husband at a park in Mexico, he told her that if she didn't kiss him, he'd throw himself into a park lagoon. Isabel let Rafael kiss her.