A federal jury has awarded $4 million in damages to the family of a 14-year-old boy who was fatally shot in the back by an off-duty Chicago police officer in 2002.

The jury set the damages at $5 million but found Juan "Johnny" Salazar, the shooting victim, 20 percent at fault, said Salazar's lawyer, Donald Shapiro. The shooting took place after Salazar and a second person tried to rob the officer's residence.

Advertisement

Three years later, Officer Rafael Balbontin was convicted in the stabbing death of his wife, Arcelia. Balbontin is serving a 25-year prison term.

The federal jury's verdict Thursday night came five years to the day after Balbontin fatally shot Salazar. The home invasion went awry when Salazar's accomplice, Edgar Naranjo, then 26, tried to scare Balbontin's mother with an unloaded BB gun, according to testimony. Balbontin's parents owned the residence in the 3000 block of North New England Avenue, but he lived in the basement with his wife and baby.

Advertisement

Balbontin's mother screamed. And his father, Juan, chased Salazar and Narango out of the house with a mop handle. Balbontin followed with his police-issued gun.

Balbontin fired eight shots, hitting Naranjo in the hand, Salazar in the shoulder and back and his father, who was caught in the crossfire, Shapiro said.

Balbontin testified that he told the youths to freeze and opened fire because he thought they were armed.

"We are shocked that the jury would reward an individual with $4 million who basically committed an armed home invasion and terrorized the Balbontin family ... who remain terrorized to this day," said Karen Seimetz, the city's first assistant corporation counsel whose office represented the defense. The city is considering appealing, she said.

By its verdict, the jury appeared to have sided with Shapiro's portrayal of a far more sinister and impulsive shooter -- and physical evidence that indicated Balbontin started firing at the two from the doorway.

At the time of the fatal shooting, Chicago police found Balbontin acted within department guidelines. But Naranjo was held responsible for the teen's death. He is serving a 40-year sentence prison term for instigating the home invasion that led to Salazar's death.

The jury was told that Balbontin had been convicted of a felony but didn't know it was for killing his wife. Shapiro said the verdict was vindication for the Salazar family.

"Johnny didn't even have a gun to turn on the police officer;" he said. "He did something wrong, but he should have been punished through the juvenile system."

Advertisement

"He didn't have to be tried, convicted and executed by Officer Balbontin," Shapiro said. "They never even took anything from the house. When [Balbontin] went out there, he was out for blood."

----------

kdemirjian@tribune.com