A bank robbery suspect shot and killed by Madison police Tuesday was armed with a pellet gun that police said appeared to be a high-caliber handgun.

The indications are that Jesse L. Johnson, of Black River Falls, Wis., might have wanted to die. He told police negotiators that he was "not going back to jail" and that he wanted to say goodbye to the mother of his 2-year-old child.

Johnson was ordered to drop the gun after two officers - Sgt. Dave McCaw and Officer Sidney Woods - confronted him in a bathroom of his two-level hotel room at Comfort Suites Hotel on the west side of Madison.

Instead, Johnson raised the black pellet gun and pointed it at the chest of one of the officers, police said. The officers fired 10 shots at Johnson from less than 5 feet away.

Johnson, 30, was a "bright and charming" man who let drugs take control of his life, said a La Crosse lawyer, Peder Arneson.

He also was a loving father who moved to Wisconsin from Michigan several years ago for a computer job at the Ho Chunk Nation, said his grandmother, Rena Wilks, of Culver City, Calif.

Johnson died in a motel bathroom after police investigating two Madison bank robberies stormed his room and found him armed.

"I was real surprised at the violence because that wasn't his style," said Arneson, who was representing Johnson in other cases. "He was more inclined to say, 'Yes sir, no sir. I'll deal with it in court.'

"There are certainly some clients in criminal law I don't like, but I'd have taken him home for supper," Arneson said. "Had Jesse been in town without a place to stay for the night, I would not have been uncomfortable in taking him home, bedding him up and letting him stay."

Johnson was generally a small-time criminal who committed retail theft or property crime to feed a crack cocaine habit, Arneson said. "This is a quantum leap from going into a store and stealing a VCR," he said. "When he was sober, he was very bright and charming. He was a nice young man."

Even when committing a crime, Johnson was known for trying to be civil, Arneson said. Last October, Johnson was accused of flagging down a motorist in Sauk County and asking for help with a bogus medical emergency. He reportedly took the driver to a nearby mobile home and tied him up at knifepoint, Arneson said.

But before he left for La Crosse in his captive's car, he turned on the television and asked the victim which channel he wanted to watch, Arneson said. The man told Johnson that his dog was in the vehicle, and Johnson agreed to release the dog.

Arneson was representing Johnson in that case, and a trial was set for Sept. 13. However, Arneson said he expected a plea agreement to be offered. Johnson has nine misdemeanor convictions in three counties for retail theft, failure to report to jail, possession of drug paraphernalia, criminal damage to property, worthless checks, bail jumping and disorderly conduct.

"He was wonderful guy who did bad things that hurt people," Arneson said. "Retail theft hurts people. He was so consumed by his addiction, that despite his qualities, he couldn't control himself."

Johnson's grandmother said Johnson would never physically hurt anyone. "The only person he hurt was himself," Wilks said. "He just went off in the wrong direction with the drugs, but he was a good boy and very intelligent."

Wilks questioned the necessity of the shooting. "It's very hard to believe," she said. "I'm not happy with what happened down there."

Madison Police Chief Richard Williams said the officers immediately fired at Johnson "to stop the threat… for their own safety."

Johnson was pronounced dead at the scene. An autopsy was conducted Wednesday, but results were not released. Police did not know how many of the 10 shots struck Johnson.

The shooting ended a more than six-hour standoff that began about 12:30 a.m. when police spotted Johnson in a hallway of the hotel. Johnson fled into his room but did not cooperate with police negotiators.

Because Johnson's third-floor room overlooked a busy highway and businesses, police cut power to the room and shot four rounds of tear gas into the suite. When Johnson did not surrender, police used an ax and chain saw to break down the door, which Johnson had barricaded with furniture.

Once inside the room, it took police fewer than five minutes to locate Johnson standing in an upstairs bathtub, partially shielded by the bathroom door, police said.

Johnson is suspected of robbing two Madison banks - the Amcore Bank on Aug. 22 and the Anchor Bank on Monday. Police said that in both robberies a man matching Johnson's description showed a black handgun and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash. Police said a "large" amount of cash was recovered from Johnson's hotel room.

An internal investigation is being conducted by Madison police to determine whether department policies and procedures were followed during the standoff and shooting. That investigation could be concluded by Friday, police said. The Dane County District Attorney's office is conducting a parallel criminal investigation to determine whether police broke any laws.

Because Woods is not on patrol and works as a training officer, he was allowed to go back to work Wednesday, Assistant Chief Richard Cowan said. McCaw, who works patrol in downtown Madison, was assigned to shift commander duty but was not on the street.

"He came into my office and said he was ready to go back on the street," Cowan said. McCaw's status will be judged on a day-by-day basis, he said. "We don't want him to overestimate his ability to return."

For Woods, who was with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department before coming to Madison six years ago, it is his second shooting in Madison. In December 1995, less than a year after joining the department, Woods was one of five officers who fired at a woman who pointed a gun at herself and then at an officer.

Barry Adams of The Wisconsin State Journal contributed to this report.