The family of a man killed by a Harrisburg police officer has filed a federal lawsuit against the city and the officer, who was recently exonerated in the unrelated shooting of an unarmed teenager.

The suit was filed by the mother of Malcolm Brummell, who was shot and killed by Officer Marc Moule while Moule was off duty on Sept. 23, 2007. It charges that the police department inadequately trained Moule and other officers and fostered an atmosphere which allows police to target young black men.

Moule said he was awakened by gunfire in his home in the first block of South Third Street and saw a man pistol-whipping another man in a parking lot. He ran outside with his service pistol and saw the assailant get in the passenger side of an SUV being driven by Brummell. Moule unloaded his pistol into the vehicle, firing eight shots, striking Brummell, 29, in the head and hitting a back-seat passenger in the arm. He later told investigators he thought he saw someone pull a gun, though no gun was found in the vehicle.

Thomas Weber, the attorney for Brummell’s mother, Ocie, said Malcolm Brummell was unarmed.

Eric King, who was a passenger in the car, is awaiting a retrial on robbery and assault charges after a jury could not reach a verdict on the case in February. Moule testified at King’s trial that he was too nervous to unlock his cell phone and call 911.

Last week, Dauphin County District Attorney Edward M. Marsico Jr. said he would not press charges against Moule in another incident in which he shot an unarmed teenager, who also has a federal lawsuit pending, in the face.

A county grand jury led by prosecutors said Moule was justified in shooting Leonard Howze, 17, in the face while responding to a report of shots fired on June 17. Howze was not charged with any crimes, but his brother and two other men in the car which he was fleeing were charged with drug and gun violations.

The panel recommended that the city give police Tasers and install recording equipment in their vehicles.