A Carlisle man fired shots at two police officers in York County before committing suicide Thursday evening, police say.

Officers were investigating a missing person case when they located Kyle J. Brown, 21, of Carlisle, and Jeffrey Whaley, 19, of Mechanicsburg, in a York apartment, said a press release from Northern York County Regional Police Department. With them was a missing 15-year-old girl from Mechanicsburg and Pixie, a 2-year-old chihuahua who had been reported stolen from a Hampden Township home Monday.

Corp. Thomas A. Speck of Hampden Township Police Department and Officer Jason D. Greco of the Northern York County Regional Police entered the Conewago Township apartment at JJJ Julia's Motel, 145 Locust Point Road, around 9:45 p.m., police said.

The York Dispatch quoted Northern York County Regional Police Chief Carl Segatti as saying that Brown struggled with officers inside the apartment before breaking free and fleeing across a parking lot.

The officers were chasing Brown on foot when he turned and fired a handgun at them, striking Speck in the chest and arm, police said. Neither officer returned fire, police said, and Brown then fired a third shot into his own head. Brown was pronounced dead at the scene by York County Coroner Barry Bloss, and his death from a single shot to the head was ruled a suicide following an autopsy Friday morning.

Greco was not injured, police said, but Speck was taken to York Hospital, where he was treated and released.

Both Whaley and Brown were suspects in a burglary, police said, and Brown was wanted on four warrants. One was from 2004, three from 2005. None was for a violent crime: Brown pleaded guilty to criminal mischief in two cases, theft in one and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle in one, and a judge then issued the warrants after he stopped paying court costs and restitution.

Whaley was arraigned in York County on charges of possessing drug paraphernalia, possessing marijuana, receiving stolen property, interference with the custody of children and corruption of minors, police said. He was placed in prison on $50,000 bail.

The girl was released to Cumberland County Children and Youth Services, police said, and the incident remains under investigation.

As for Pixie, she was returned to her family, who was “happy and elated and joyful” to see her again, according to Doug Ross, whose daughter owns the dog.

Ross said his Hampden Township home was broken into and burglarized between 9 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Monday. The burglars also took jewelry and digital cameras, he said, but it was the loss of the 6-pound Pixie that worried the family most.

“Why in the heck would they take a dog?” he asked. “You don't mess with children, you don't mess with family pets. Take all the jewels and goodies you want, but don't mess with the family pets.”

Despite lots of effort from the police department and support from the community, Ross said that by Thursday, the family was beginning to resign itself to the fact that Pixie might not be coming back. But then they got a call from the police department around 2:45 a.m. Friday, he said. Pixie suffered no damage other than gaining a little weight, he said, and is now busy catching up on her sleep.

“Normally you don't like getting phone calls in the middle of the morning, because it's bad, but in this case it was good,” Ross said. The family had been watching the late news Thursday night and seen mention of the shooting, he said, and in the midst of their joy feels sorrow for Brown's family.

“We realize that some family is out there mourning the loss of their child today,” Ross said. “Twenty-one is too young to go.”

He added that he didn't think the crime committed “was worth doing that.”

Still, Ross said, he is glad that the officer who was hit was not seriously wounded. The officers who met them at the station at 3 a.m. Friday “looked pretty tired,” he said, noting that he has nothing but highest praise for the job they did.

“I think it made them feel pretty good to be successful and return her safe and sound.”