SAN JOSE — A police officer shot and killed a man who authorities say charged at him while holding two kitchen knives moments after he arrived at the man’s home for an emergency call late Tuesday.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | San Jose’s 4 officer-involved shootings of 2017: What you need to know

San Jose’s 4 officer-involved shootings of 2017: What you need to know Crime and Public Safety | San Jose police: Naked man shot after pointing caulking gun at officers

San Jose police: Naked man shot after pointing caulking gun at officers Crime and Public Safety | San Jose: Knife-wielding man shot, wounded by police The reportedly mentally ill man was rushed to a hospital, where he died Wednesday morning, police said. The officer who opened fire, a 15-year department veteran, was not injured. Neither was identified as of Wednesday afternoon.

The encounter marked the third shooting involving a San Jose police officer this year, and the year’s first fatal shooting.

“It’s a tragedy for the suspect’s family, and it’s a tragedy for the officers involved,” police Chief Eddie Garcia said during a news conference Wednesday afternoon.

Officers were called about 11:35 p.m. to a home in the 1500 block of Mt. Frazier Drive, in the Mount Pleasant area, for a report of a family disturbance, police said.

Almost “immediately,” Garcia said, a 28-year-old man who was one of the 911 callers emerged from a garage and rushed the lead officer while holding two knives, one in his right hand raised over his head. The officer reportedly retreated a few steps before the man could close the distance, and opened fire from just a few feet away.

“Upon arrival, an adult male suspect charged in an attempt to attack one of the officers while holding a large knife raised over his head,” Garcia said. “In defense of his life, the officer discharged his firearm, striking the suspect at least one time.”

The wounded man was previously arguing or fighting with his father, who also called 911, according to police. The father was not injured.

Garcia said the man who was shot had been the subject of previous police calls, for alleged threats and drug offenses, and suffered from mental illness.

Neighbor Gerry Hernandez said he heard about three gunshots, and when he looked outside, watched as police officers ran down the street and periodically sought cover behind parked cars. When he actually walked outside about 15 minutes later, he saw red tape and cones in the street near a bicycle and a backpack.

Garcia said a significant portion of the confrontation was recorded on the shooting officer’s body-worn camera. The public release of images or video from that recording is generally prohibited by statutory protections for police evidence, and will likely not be released until the shooting investigation is complete, which generally takes several months to a year.

When asked about whether less lethal force — like a Taser — could have been deployed, Garcia said events unraveled too quickly to cycle through those options.

“We talk about ‘less lethal’ and things of that nature and they are appropriate at times, but when an individual is charging at an officer with a knife over his head, there’s not much that can be done at that point,” he said. “They literally drove up and this happened in a matter of moments.”

Garcia said investigators have talked to the deceased man’s family and described them as cooperative. As the scene cleared out Wednesday morning, the San Jose police mobile-command unit remained parked on the street. Also, two patrol cars were towed from the shooting site.

The officer who fired his weapon was placed on routine paid administrative leave as an investigation is launched by San Jose homicide detectives in tandem with the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office. It will be monitored by the internal affairs unit, City Attorney’s Office and Independent Police Auditor. All are part of county protocol invoked after an officer-involved shooting.

Anyone with information about the shooting can contact Detective Sgt. John Barg or Detective Wayne Smith in the San Jose police homicide unit at 408-277-5283.