GRAND RAPIDS, MI - Kent County Prosecutor Chris Becker said Grand Rapids police were justified in shooting and killing Malik Carey, 18, who opened fired on police after engaging in an otherwise pleasant conversation.

Carey, who was seated in the back seat of a parked car, was talking to police when he suddenly reached into his waistband for a gun and fired four shots at officers.

"There was no indication there was going to be trouble there ... absolutely no indication he was going to get violent," Kent County Prosecutor Chris Becker said Tuesday, May 30.

Becker determined that Grand Rapids police were justified in shooting and killing Carey.

He said video footage from officers' body cameras played a crucial role in showing exactly what happened. The video provides a look at the "unpredictability" of encounters that police face every day, Becker said.

Police Chief David Rahinsky said: "That turned in a split second. ... I have to commend the officers for not being complacent. It just goes, in my mind, to reinforce just how dangerous this profession is."

Becker also determined that police acted appropriately waiting nearly 30 minutes to provide Carey with assistance. Carey was on the ground, near his .38-caliber revolver, and, while he ignored police orders to show his hands or crawl away from the gun, he still showed movement.

Police assembled a special-response team, with an armored rescue vehicle and shields, to approach Carey, concerned he would shoot officers as they neared. As it turned out, Carey could not have survived a gunshot to his temple. His movements were involuntary.

The incident began around 12:30 p.m. May 3 in the 1300-block of Dickinson Street SE.

While helping a Grand Rapids schools officer conduct truancy checks, Officer Benjamin Hawkins happened to spot Carey in the back seat of a parked car.

A probation officer that day issued an advisory to police that Carey was a probation absconder. The probation officer included an "officer safety caution" because Carey was on probation for firing at a carload of people in 2015.

Hawkins and Officer Tony Gamez walked toward the car.

Hawkins approached the open window of the back seat on the driver's side. Carey identified himself as Willie Walton III and gave a date of birth. After police requested backup, officers had a "relatively pleasant talk" with Carey while waiting for additional officers, Becker said.

"Mr. Carey is respectful and responsive to the officers other than giving them a false name," Becker said in his report.

Officer David Lilly showed up. Hawkins went to his patrol car to look at the photo provided by the probation officer. Hawkins returned to the car to arrest Carey as a probation absconder.

As Hawkins entered the back seat of the car, video shows Carey reach into his waistband. Hawkins immediately retreats, yelling, "Gun, Gun, Gun!" Lilly deploys the taser he was holding. Gamez and Hawkins returne fire.

Police fired multiple shots, both when Carey was in the car and as he ran across a yard. Carey soon collapsed. His Smith & Wesson revolver, found under his chest, about 6 inches from his left hand, had five fired cartridge cases and an empty chamber.

Police did not immediately approach. A police captain summoned the special-response team while officers yelled commands.

Carey had been struck twice: once in the left temple, and once in his left arm. The gunshot to the head was fatal, with any movements involuntary.

"There was no way for the officers to know this at the time," Becker said.

"Nothing could have been done to save Mr. Carey given the nature of the injury."

State police determined that Hawkins fired 11 shots. Gamez fired seven. Lilly did not fire his gun.

Police were justified in trying to arrest Carey, Becker said.

"Mr. Carey was the person who initiated the violence," Becker said. "He drew his gun, pointed his gun, and fired his gun at least four times before any police officer could even draw their firearm. This was a classic case of 'a sudden, fierce and violent attack.'"

He said police were justified in shooting Carey after he left the car and tried to flee. He fired at least once after he left the car. Police could not let him escape into the neighborhood and potentially harm someone else, he said.

"Mr. Carey demonstrated with his history he does not have qualms about shooting into a car full of civilians, he this was the crime for which he was on probation," Becker said.

Becker noted that a gunshot struck a house where Carey collapsed. The bullet lodged in a stairwell at the home. Becker said it was fortunate no one else was hurt and said police "didn't have too many good options."

Had Carey survived, he likely would have been charged with assault with intent to murder, Becker said.