Norfolk District Attorney Michael W. Morrissey said in a five-page report released Thursday that the officers who shot Tizaya Jordan Robinson, 25, on the night of May 5 were protecting themselves and others from the imminent threat of death from incoming gunfire.

Braintree police were justified in fatally shooting a kidnapping suspect after the man shot one of their officers in the face at a Motel 6 in May, authorities said.

According to Morrissey’s report, Boston police contacted Braintree officers in the afternoon and requested help with serving a restraining order on Robinson, who they believed was staying in Braintree at the Motel 6 on Union Street.

Advertisement

Braintree police learned Robinson also had an active arrest warrant out of Boston for kidnapping, as well as a substantial criminal history that included gun violations, the report said.

Officers announced themselves outside Robinson’s motel room around 9 p.m. and tried to open the door with a key card after they received no response, the report said. But a security latch on the door kept it mostly shut, and Robinson fired at the officers when they again commanded him to open the door, Morrissey said.

Get Breaking News Alerts Stay up-to-date with important news developments, delivered right to your inbox. Enter Email Sign Up

Officer Donald Delaney was shot in the face and repeatedly yelled, “I’m hit,” as he and officers Ryan McHugh and William Cushing returned fire, the report said. Police pulled Delaney to safety, then more gunfire came from the room. Officers fired back in a brief burst, Morrissey said.

Evidence from the autopsy, ballistics, and witnesses shows that Robinson at one point placed his pistol under his chin and pulled the trigger, sending a bullet through his head that exited the front of his face but didn’t kill him, the report said.

The fatal shot also struck Robinson in the head and came from one of the officers during the second exchange of gunfire, according to prosecutors. Investigators could not determine which officer fired that shot.

Advertisement

In addition to the head wounds, Robinson was also shot in the thigh. Investigators later recovered four shell casings from his gun in his room. The Braintree officers fired a total of 29 rounds, Morrissey said.

Delaney survived the shooting and remains on leave while he continues his recovery.

“In light of these findings and conclusions, the District Attorney for the Norfolk District finds no criminal responsibility on the part of responding officers and will take no further action relative to the actions of Braintree police at Motel 6 on May 5, 2017,” the prosecutor wrote.

Morrissey said he based his findings on surveillance footage from Motel 6, Boston and State Police reports, interviews with motel guests and officers, and the medical examiner’s report, among other factors.

Travis Andersen can be reached at travis.andersen@globe.com. Follow him on Twitter @TAGlobe.