Park Ridge police are investigating an accident in which a vehicle driven by an officer responding to a minor accident collided with another car, fatally injuring a 75-year-old woman.

Patrol Officer Karyn Suarez, who has been on the force for five years, was driving a marked squad car around 2:40 p.m. Monday when it struck a 1997 Lincoln Town Car driven by a Park Ridge couple.

Advertisement

Mary Jeanne Onderdonk, daughter of former Cook County Board President William Erickson, was taken to Lutheran General Hospital, where she died four hours later.

Her husband, William, 76, who was driving, was in fair condition Tuesday at the Park Ridge hospital.

Advertisement

Suarez was southbound on Wisner Street on her way to a minor traffic accident at Higgins and Dee Roads when she struck the Lincoln, which was headed west on Cedar Street, Police Chief Jeffrey Caudill said. The officer did not have her lights or siren on, said Caudill, who added that police do not know how fast she was traveling. Suarez was treated at Lutheran General for minor injuries and released Monday night, officials said.

The accident occurred at a quiet residential intersection--about a block from the Onderdonks' house--that has no stop signs or traffic control devices. Caudill said the department's major crash unit is investigating but it appears Suarez had the right of way. The investigation will take about a week to complete, he said.

"I feel for the victim and her husband, but I also feel for the officer and what she must be going through right now," Caudill said.

Residents near the crash scene said the intersection has been the site of several less-serious accidents.

"We get a lot of cars that come zipping through here, and some of them don't know who is supposed to yield," said George Murphy, who lives nearby. "They need to put a stop sign there."

A block from the scene, neighbors recalled Mary Jeanne Onderdonk as kind and civic-minded.

Marilyn Johnston, 71, a longtime friend, said Mary Jeanne made her mark on Park Ridge through a variety of volunteer and civic projects over the years. She raised funds for the local symphony. And she raised money for the Republican Party in honor of her late father, a longtime Evanston Township Republican committeeman who was Cook County Board president from 1946 to 1954.

"I was sick awhile back, and Mary Jeanne was away for a couple of weeks," Johnston said. "And each day for two weeks, I got a `Get Well Soon' card from her. She was just exceptional."