CARMEL VALLEY, Calif. (KGTV) - A teenager is dead, following an officer-involved shooting Saturday at Torrey Pines High School.

San Diego Police said a 15-year-old male suspect was shot and killed during the incident just before 3:30 a.m. on Del Mar Heights Road.

Police are still investigating what led to the shooting, but said they believe the suspect called to report himself to officers in the third-person for a "welfare check." Police arrived to find the teenager standing in the parking lot of the high school, according to SDPD Acting Captain Mike Holden.

Officers said the suspect pulled out a handgun from his waistband and pointed it at the two officers, Capt. Holden said. Verbal commands were given to drop the weapon but the teen did not comply, according to officers.

Capt. Holden said the teen then began walking toward one of the officers while pointing the weapon at them. Officers, once again, said the teen refused verbal commands given to drop the weapon.

Fearing for their safety, Capt. Holden said officers fired their weapons at the teenager, striking him multiple times. Police later identified the handgun used by the teenager as a "semi-automatic BB air pistol."

Read SDPD's statement here

Officers began administering first aid and paramedics were called to the scene. The boy was transported to Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla, where he was pronounced dead.

The name of the suspect was not released, as he is a juvenile. Police said his family has been notified.

No officers were injured during the shooting. The officers' body cameras were on at the time of the shooting, though no word was given on whether that footage would be released. SDPD identified the two officers as a 28-year veteran and a four-year veteran.

Later Saturday, the San Dieguito Union High School District confirmed in a letter to parents that the teenager was a student of Torrey Pines High School.

"I am saddened to report that the 15-year-old boy who was killed was a student at our school. Law enforcement has not released the name of the young man, but our hearts go out to the student, his family, and his friends," Superintendent Eric Dill said in the statement. "I know this is difficult, but we ask that you please refrain from conjecture or spreading rumors. This is a difficult time for the family and we need to let them mourn."

Dill said a crisis response team will be made available at the high school's campus Monday and counseling services will be available at all campuses in the school district.

"As a community, we have a shared responsibility to care for one another. Please rest assured that we will do everything possible to maintain our daily routine while supporting each other as we deal with this sad event," Dill said.

The shooting took place just hours before students arrived to take a scheduled SAT exam. Those individuals were allowed on campus but directed to enter at a different location from the parking lot entrance.

Police shoot & kill 15 year old standing in the #TorreyPinesHS parking lot. They say he pulled out a gun and pointed it at officers @10News pic.twitter.com/HEvx9G2KBp — Jessica Chen (@10NewsJessica) May 6, 2017

This is a developing story. Stay with 10News as more information becomes available.