Jason Pohl

The Coloradoan

A man shot at SWAT team officers and claimed to have placed explosives around his Estes Park home, complicating a 27-hour standoff that ended midday Saturday when authorities learned the man had died by suicide, officials said.

Emergency crews were notified about 10:30 a.m. Friday of a suicidal adult male at a residence on Larkspur Avenue in Estes Park. No other individuals were in the home, but as the day wore on, additional law enforcement units were called in to assist, said Travis Machalek, Estes Park's assistant town administrator.

"Estes Park Police Department personnel made contact with the individual and spoke with him on the phone for approximately seven hours," officials wrote in a news release Saturday afternoon. "The individual made multiple threats against the lives of law enforcement and claimed to have placed explosive devices around the home."

At one point during the multi-day incident, the man came out of the home and brandished a handgun before returning inside. A SWAT team entered the home Friday night, at which time the man fired an unknown number of shots toward officers, officials said.

More:1 dead in Interstate 25 crash south of Fort Collins on Saturday

SWAT team personnel again entered the home about noon Saturday, only to find the man had apparently died by suicide sometime during the incident.

No explosives were found, and the scene was deemed safe at 1:18 p.m.

Officers worked "through the night to establish and maintain contact with this individual,” Machalek told the Coloradoan Saturday morning as it became clear this was not a typical response for a distraught individual.

Neighbors in the area were asked to either evacuate or shelter-in-place, and Larkspur Avenue remained closed throughout the incident between Carriage Drive and Whispering Pines Drive. The area is parallel to Colorado Highway 7 on the south side of Estes Park.

The Estes Park Police Department was assisted by the Larimer County Sheriff's Office, SWAT teams from Larimer County, Boulder County, Longmont and Fort Collins as well as the Northern Colorado Regional Bomb Squad and Boulder County Regional Bomb Squad. Rocky Mountain National Park, Estes Valley Fire Protection District, and the Estes Park Medical Center Ambulance Service also assisted in incident.

Additional details were not made available on Saturday.

More:Saturday morning crash kills 1 in south Fort Collins

Reporter Jason Pohl covers public safety for the Coloradoan. Follow him on Twitter: @pohl_jason.