More details became available Tuesday about a chase that ended in a fiery crash that claimed the life of a man riding a stolen motorcycle on the city's North Side Friday night.

Police were not able to initially identify the man because he did not carry identification. By Sunday and with the help of the man's sister, he had been identified as Claude Grant Pettus, 19, of Winona, Minn.

This account is from the report by La Crosse police officer Ryan Fitzgerald:

Shortly before 7 p.m. Friday, Fitzgerald saw a motorcycle run a red light at the West Avenue and Lang Drive intersection; it accelerated to about 45 mph. As Fitzgerald turned on his lights and siren, the motorcycle slowed and got caught in traffic, which allowed Fitzgerald to pull his squad car up behind it. When Pettus turned around to look, Fitzgerald noticed he was not wearing eye protection.

Instead of pulling over, however, the motorcycle speeded up and continued to head north on George Street, reaching a speed of about 100 mph and running a red light at Gillette Street. Pettus wove the cycle through traffic, sometimes crossing into the southbound lane, causing oncoming drivers to swerve.

Fitzgerald, in contact with the police dispatch center, was told to end the pursuit due to safety concerns. He deactivated the squad's roof lights and sirens while on George Street, just south of Campbell Street.

As Fitzgerald was doing this, he noticed the cycle slow down and turn east on Campbell Street. Believing the cyclist was going to stop, Fitzgerald turned the squad's lights on.

Just as the squad turned onto Campbell, Fitzgerald realized the cycle wasn't pulling over. Instead, he watched it crash into the side of 1976 Chevy pickup truck headed southbound on Loomis Street. The bike exploded into a fireball.

Fitzgerald ran to the scene and found Pettus lying severely injured on the street. Fearing a secondary explosion, Fitzgerald moved Pettus to safety. Pettus was later pronounced dead at the scene.

The motorcycle had been reported to Winona Police as stolen a few days before the accident.

The driver of the pickup, Penny J. Fisher, 39, of 2116 Loomis St., and her son, Tyler, 3, were not injured. Fisher was arrested and charged with operating a vehicle after registration suspension and a selt-belt violation. The accident remains under investigation.