In the darkened crawlspace of a Westminster home, two officers saw the muzzle flash of a suspect’s handgun. Those officers, and two others in the home, fired 63 shots. They hit the suspect, who died on scene, 41 times.

The four officers involved in the May 9 shooting death of Joseph David Jaster, 40, will not face criminal charges, according to a letter from Dave Young, District Attorney for Adams and Broomfield counties, to Tim Carlson, Westminster police chief.

Officers David Galbraith, Mike Catalano, Drew Smith and Sgt. Jason Poppenger, all fired their weapon at Jasper, according to Young’s decision letter.

Jaster, wanted as a suspect in a motorcycle theft, was pursued by an officer to a home in the 1300 block of West 135th Avenue.

Read more: 2017 Colorado officer-involved shootings

After a six-hour standoff, Jaster, armed with a handgun, was hiding in the darkened crawlspace in an attempt to evade officers. Galbraith and Catalano went into the crawlspace in an attempt to convince Jaster to surrender. Instead, he pointed a weapon at the officers, the letter said.

Poppenger, armed with a rifle, was at the entry of the crawlspace. Smith, also armed with a rifle, was inside the home, above the crawlspace.

Galbraith and Catalano both saw the muzzle flash of Jaster’s gun, according to the Young’s letter. They fired, as did Poppenger and Smith.

When the shooting started, Sgt. Brian Hemplemann, a police dog handler, was inside the home. A bullet came through the floor, hitting Hemplemann in the arm. He fell to the floor.

Smith, who was also inside the home, then fired his rifle through the floor into the crawl space where he believed Jaster was located. Hemplemann was treated at a hospital and released.

The investigation found that Poppenger fired eight rifle rounds; Catallano fired 28 rifle rounds; Smith fired 10 rifle rounds; and Galbraith fired 17 rounds from his Glock 9mm pistol.

The officers all feared for their own safety, as well as for the safety of fellow officers, according to the decision letter.

“At the time of the shooting, all of the law enforcement officers were engaged in the course of their duties to arrest a suspect in possession of a stolen motorcycle,” the letter said.

By law, the DA’s office would not be able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the officers committed a crime, Young’s letter said.

While in the crawlspace, as Galbraith and Catalano tried to convince Jaster surrender, the suspect said: “I am not dying today,” or “I am dying today,” according to the letter. At that time, Jaster raised his gun and bullets then filled the air.

Jaster, who died of multiple gun shot wounds, had the drugs amphetamine, methamphetamine and benzoylecgonine in his system at the time of his death, according to a coroner’s report.