A Multnomah County grand jury has found no criminal wrongdoing by a Portland police officer who shot and killed a man armed with a utility knife and described as acting erratically earlier at a transit station in Southeast Portland.

The jury reviewed Officer Samson Ajir's shooting of Terrell Kyreem Johnson, 24, who died of multiple gunshot wounds, on May 10.

It found the officer's use of deadly force was "a lawful exercise of self-defense'' under criminal law, according to the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office.

The office will request that the grand jury transcripts be made public sometime next month.

Terrell K. Johnson

Portland police have said they were initially dispatched to a transit station on Southeast Flavel Street because someone called 911 to say Johnson was threatening people.

West Linn Officer Jacob Howell, assigned to the interagency Transit Police Division, arrived and spoke with Johnson, "who was noncompliant and would not sit down," according to police.

Johnson ran as Ajir arrived in the area with his partner, Clackamas County sheriff's Deputy A.J. Ajir, who is his brother.

Johnson went west on Flavel Street before turning around and heading east. Then he went north on a MAX bridge that goes over Johnson Creek.

Samson Ajir and Johnson were close to each other when police said Johnson turned around towards the officer, and "advanced towards him'' while holding a utility knife. That prompted Samson Ajir to unholster his gun and shoot Johnson multiple times, according to police. Police haven't released other details of the encounter.

Johnson was homeless as of late April, when he was arrested in Multnomah County on suspicion of felony theft, according to court records.

Johnson reported being unemployed and having no mental health problems, the records show. He also reported using marijuana every other day, drinking alcohol at least once a week and using other drugs intermittently.

His mother filed a petition last September for a restraining order to prevent abuse, citing fear of imminent injury, records show. The order was granted and was to remain active through the end of August, according to records.

"Every time he ... threatens to tear up my house or tells me he wishes I was dead or threatens to kill me I feel like it is more unsafe especially because I know he has no respect for me, my husband or our house," she wrote in the petition.

Johnson also was arrested in April and accused of malicious mischief, resisting arrest and obstruction, all misdemeanors, in Cowlitz County. Records show he had missed his court date, and a judge issued a bench warrant for his arrest.

The Police Bureau will conduct an internal review of the encounter and the case will go before the Police Review Board, which includes police, community members and representatives from the city's Independent Police Review Division.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the Johnson family and the families of Officer and Deputy Ajir during this difficult time," Portland Police Chief Mike Marshman said in a statement after the shooting. "This is not the outcome anyone desires and it's distressing for all involved. We remain committed to full transparency and upon completion of the grand jury, we will ensure the entire investigation is released in a timely manner."

-- Maxine Bernstein

mbernstein@oregonian.com

503-221-8212

@maxoregonian