UPDATE:

Deputies involved in returning fire in the early morning hours of May 12, 2017

D/S Robert Jacques, date of hire: 4/27/15, assigned to Road Patrol

D/S Dustin Sullivan, date of hire: 7/27/16, assigned to Road Patrol – received an injured shoulder

D/S Jorge Gomez, date of hire: 2/18/16, assigned to Road Patrol

Deputies involved in returning fire and striking O’Shea in the later hours of the day:

Agent Nicholas Lentini, date of hire: 3/27/03, assigned to Tactical Unit

Agent Todd Romagnoli, date of hire: 2/24/99, assigned to Tactical Unit

D/S Charles Hardy, date of hire: 5/12/00, assigned to K9

Information from the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office

EARLIER STORY

A man wanted for armed robbery in North Carolina and Palm Beach County was shot and killed Friday by sheriff's deputies in Jupiter, after a shootout.

A K9, 4-year-old Casper, was shot and underwent surgery, but is expected to survive. Casper has been with PBSO for two years and has been assigned to may presidential details. It is unknown if he will be back to work following the shooting. There is no word if the injury in his hind legs and hip will affect his mobility long term.

Deputies say Phillip O'Shea is the same man that exchanged fire with deputies after an armed robbery of a bar this morning.

Friday morning, deputies say, 46-year-old Phillip O'Shea was armed and robbed Duggans Bar and Grill.

With deputies chasing, O'Shea flipped his car over at Church Street and Old Okeechobee Blvd.

They exchanged fire, but no one was hit. A deputy was injured, treated at a local hospital and released.

O' Shea stole a car and escaped until Friday afternoon.

RELATED: PBSO looking for robbery suspects who injured deputy after exchange of gunfire

Investigators were lead to a corner of a Jupiter parking lot off of Military Trail in that same stolen car.

Mitch Baker lives nearby.

"They were talking to him over the PA system. 'Hey Phillip, come on out. Talk to us. It doesn't have to go this way,'" Baker says. "They did everything within reason that they could to reach the guy."

Deputies say O'Shea had a handgun gun in his hand, the same one from the morning, and exchanged gunfire again

This time, Casper was hit, and O'Shea shot dead.

O'Shea was wanted out of Raleigh, NC and Palm Beach County for armed robbery.

"This was a very dangerous individual. We believe that he was also involved in other robberies in the county, which were looking at. But obviously a danger to the public," Sheriff Ric Bradshaw says.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the officer-involved shooting. The sheriff's officer is investigating all other aspects.

A spokeswoman for the FDLE says the investigation could take several months. It will then be up to the State Attorney's Office to decide if charges are filed against the deputies.

Three deputies are on administrative leave, which is standard protocol.