The fatal shooting of a Pulaski man last month by a county sheriff’s deputy was “appropriate and legally justified,” Commonwealth’s Attorney Mike Fleenor concluded.

In an opinion letter released Wednesday, Fleenor wrote that the May 14 death of James Alvis Burton Sr., 48, during a confrontation with law enforcement officers came after Burton had fired a shotgun at officers.

A Pulaski County sheriff’s deputy, one of a number of town and county officers involved in what had become a standoff, fired a rifle in response, Fleenor wrote.

The officer’s shot killed Burton, and was a justified shooting “in his defense of himself and other fellow officers,” Fleenor wrote.

In an email accompanying the release of the letter, Fleenor noted that he is declining to identify the officers involved in the shooting.

The prosecutor’s letter was sent to Virginia State Police, whose investigation of the shooting was the basis for Fleenor’s review.

Outlining the state police findings, Fleenor wrote that:

n James Burton lived with his wife Sandy in the 100 block of Fourth Street SE in Pulaski. A neighbor made a 911 call on May 14 saying Sandy Burton had been assaulted by her husband and that the neighbor had seen James Burton holding a gun.

n Sandy Burton told the neighbor that James Burton had choked her. She said that he was intoxicated, had guns in the house, and had previously barricaded himself in the house.

n Based on the report and Burton’s prior criminal history, Pulaski police obtained a warrant for felony domestic assault and a protective order and went to the home to arrest Burton. SWAT teams from the police department and sheriff’s office set up around the house.

n When a town officer approached the door, he heard glass break and saw Burton throw a rifle out the window. Burton then put another gun to his own head and said, “I want you to watch this.” He tried to reach the trigger with his foot.

n The officer heard a shot in the house but then Burton came back to the window and shouted for the officer to shoot him. Burton said he was “going to leave in a body bag.”

n Officers made numerous attempts to convince Burton to surrender. He responded with threats .

n Burton twice came out on the porch with a shotgun, pointed it at officers and attempted to fire. Both times the gun failed to shoot.

On a third attempt, Burton fired the shotgun toward the officers, hitting no one.

n A sheriff’s deputy shot back after Burton fired. After the deputy’s single shot, Burton went back in the house and slammed the door. Investigation found that Burton died from the deputy’s shot.

About seven “independent” witnesses and at least 10 law enforcement officers were at the scene and none disputed the facts as described, according to Fleenor’s letter.

A week after Burton’s death, his son was charged with making a written threat after allegedly posting on Facebook that he would harm town and county officers, according to Fleenor.

A hearing for James A. Burton Jr., 26, of Dublin has been scheduled in Pulaski County General District Court on July 11.