An officer tried to shield civilians, the investigation of the fatal gunfight shows.

More than 160 pieces of evidence have been gathered in the massive investigation of a gunbattle that left six police officers and two bystanders injured, the gunman who ambushed them dead and a neighborhood scarred by gunfire.

Meanwhile, police said Monday that the investigation has revealed that the Tulsa police officer who sustained the most severe injuries in the gunfight early Sunday was hit as he tried to shield two bystanders from the gunfire.

Officer Darren Bristow still has more than 100 shotgun pellets lodged in his upper body and face, Sgt. Wayne Allen said. One man he was trying to protect sustained more than 30 pellet wounds, and the other sustained seven wounds and a back injury.

The man who ambushed the officers, Benito Daniel Hernandez, 44, had a history of domestic violence, court records show.

Police shot and killed Hernandez as he shot at them for the third time and tried to get in a truck to flee.

Seven officers who fired at Hernandez remained on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

Detectives were trying Monday to piece together the chronology of the events, Sgt. Mike Huff said.

"There were three separate attacks on officers" resulting in six officers being struck, Huff said.

Allen said five of the six officers were treated at hospitals and released.

Previous reports said five officers had been struck.

Police first were called to the scene by several neighbors who heard gunfire at 9144 E. Third Place about 2:30 a.m. Sunday.

Terra Atkins lives behind the Hernandez house and, along with her boyfriend and children, awoke to the sound of gunfire. When she went outside, Atkins said, she saw Hernandez in the back yard firing a shotgun.

"He was not really firing at anything at that time," Atkins said. "Then he went back inside and turned off all the lights."

Bristow arrived, and Atkins said her boyfriend and another neighbor went into the back yard with him. When Hernandez came out firing, all three men were struck.

"The officer was very heroic. He jumped on top of my boy friend to shield him," Atkins said. "He was all bloody. He had blood all over his face, but all he could worry about was helping everyone else."

Additional officers who were arriving saw the injured officer and civilians and attempted to discern who the shooter was and where he had gone.

"The suspect was still unknown at that point. They were trying to deal with that when the suspect exited the house again and ambushed those officers, and three more were shot then," Huff said. "Each time he ambushed, officers returned fire."

Huff said Sgt. Gary Otterstrom, Officer Sara O'Mara and Officer Heather Howard were shot during the second ambush.

Hernandez returned to the house again as the officers worked to secure the area. Because he was "armed and barricaded" inside the house at that point, the Special Operations Team was called.

Police continued ordering the man to surrender, Huff said. As Special Operations Team officers responded, Hernandez came out of the house again, this time from the front, Huff said.

"He started to get in his vehicle and continued to fire additional rounds at officers when two more officers were struck," Huff said.

Officer James Peters and Officer Stephen Stoltz were hit in the third attack, he said. Police returned fire, killing Hernandez.

"He came armed with multiple rounds of shotgun ammunition, and all indications were that he was preparing himself to fire multiple rounds at anyone and anything he came in contact with," Huff said.

Atkins said her children, ages 10, 6 and 4, stayed on the floor in the darkness of the house to seek safety from the gunfire. The first thing Monday morning, she took them to see a school counselor, she said.

"My kids won't ever be the same," she said. "They see where the pellets struck (our) house and where they struck their new trampoline."

Huff said detectives are working on an unusually large investigation as a result of the gunfight. By Monday morning, police had catalogued more than 160 pieces of evidence, but they expected that number to rise to 190 to 200 pieces by the time they seized the remaining evidence from the Medical Examiner's Office.

"This is a massive investigation," Huff said. "When you are looking at six officers who are shot, a suspect dead, we have two civilians injured and a very large amount of evidence."

The investigation has revealed that Hernandez had gone to the house because of ongoing domestic problems with his ex-wife, Judy Hernandez. It was the second time in less than a week that police had been called to the home because Benito Hernandez had been there armed with a shotgun.

Judy Hernandez and her boyfriend, Mitchell Morrall, had obtained emergency protective orders against her ex-husband Wednesday following a confrontation the day before.

According to the court record, Judy Hernandez wrote that Benito Hernandez "came to my house, threatened to kill my boyfriend with a shotgun and shot it in the air."

She added that her children were home at the time.

In his application for an emergency protective order, Morrall wrote that Hernandez "jacked a shell into the chamber and pointed the gun at my head" during the confrontation.

Morrall said that as Hernandez was leaving, he fired the gun twice. He added that a neighbor had seen Hernandez standing outside the home smoking a cigarette about 1:30 a.m. Oct. 3.

In 1994, while they were still married, Judy Hernandez obtained a protective order against her husband after another act of violence, court records show.

She said Benito Hernandez had come home drunk and started shoving and pushing her. She said he "put his hand around my neck and carried me across the house" and that he threw her purse through the front window, knocked over lamps and picked up a coat rack and threw it at the window.

Judy Hernandez said her daughter was awakened by the noise and saw the attack. The next morning the violence continued, and Benito Hernandez threw a full coffee cup at her and shoved her some more, the court record shows.

Nicole Marshall, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8459 or via e-mail at nicole.marshall@tulsaworld.com.