A parolee-at-large who was arrested in violation of a domestic violence restraining order in North Highlands died Friday morning after he kicked out the back window of a patrol vehicle and jumped out while the car was moving, the sheriff's department said.Sacramento County sheriff's deputies received a call about 8 p.m. Thursday from a home near Galbrath Drive and Walerga Way, and officers were told that a 29-year-old man was near the home of his estranged wife, in violation of his restraining order, officers said.Deputies found the man, whose identity has not been released, near the home and discovered he was a wanted parolee-at-large, the sheriff's department said. He was taken into custody without incident.While the suspect was being driven to the Sacramento County Main Jail, he kicked out the rear window of the patrol car and jumped out of the window, with his handcuffs on, while the car was moving, according to officers.The suspect landed on the asphalt, which caused him to suffer a major head injury. He was taken to a hospital in critical condition, deputies said.Just after 10 a.m., the suspect was pronounced dead at the hospital.The Sacramento County Coroner's Office will determine a cause of death, and the sheriff's department will complete a death investigation in accordance with department procedure and state laws.No additional information has been released.

A parolee-at-large who was arrested in violation of a domestic violence restraining order in North Highlands died Friday morning after he kicked out the back window of a patrol vehicle and jumped out while the car was moving, the sheriff's department said.

Sacramento County sheriff's deputies received a call about 8 p.m. Thursday from a home near Galbrath Drive and Walerga Way, and officers were told that a 29-year-old man was near the home of his estranged wife, in violation of his restraining order, officers said.

Advertisement

Deputies found the man, whose identity has not been released, near the home and discovered he was a wanted parolee-at-large, the sheriff's department said. He was taken into custody without incident.

While the suspect was being driven to the Sacramento County Main Jail, he kicked out the rear window of the patrol car and jumped out of the window, with his handcuffs on, while the car was moving, according to officers.

The suspect landed on the asphalt, which caused him to suffer a major head injury. He was taken to a hospital in critical condition, deputies said.

Just after 10 a.m., the suspect was pronounced dead at the hospital.

The Sacramento County Coroner's Office will determine a cause of death, and the sheriff's department will complete a death investigation in accordance with department procedure and state laws.

No additional information has been released.