A 29-year-old Richmond resident has been identified as the man who was fatally shot by a city police officer during a South Side traffic stop.

Jaison Fitzgerald, of the 1900 block of Accommodation Street in the city’s East End, was pulled over by officers shortly after 6 p.m. Monday in the 3800 block of Lynhaven Avenue. He had been sought by police for a shooting earlier Monday.

Fitzgerald displayed a gun during the stop, Police Chief Alfred Durham said Monday night, and a Richmond police officer shot him. Fitzgerald was taken to a hospital, where he died.

Fitzgerald was accused of shooting a relative of a woman with whom he had been having a domestic dispute. The incident unfolded about 1:40 p.m. Monday in the 1300 block of Armfield Road, near the intersection of Chippenham Parkway and Hull Street Road.

Police said they secured arrest warrants for several charges, including attempted murder, and were searching for Fitzgerald when 2nd Precinct officers spotted him driving on Lynhaven Avenue, which is about 5 miles from the earlier shooting.

Fitzgerald was the only occupant of the vehicle, police said.

The officer who shot Fitzgerald has been placed on administrative leave with pay while an investigation is being conducted. The officer, whose identity has not been released, has been with the police department for two years.

The department’s Force Investigation Team, comprising Major Crimes Division detectives, are investigating the fatal shooting and will present their findings to the city’s commonwealth’s attorney for review.

Durham said several witnesses saw the shooting, including one who overheard the officer saying, “Put down the gun.”

Fitzgerald had several convictions, including four felony drug and gun charges from 2007 and a misdemeanor possession of marijuana charge from 2012, according to online court records. He served 18 months total for the felonies, but most of the counts carried no jail or prison time.

Police ask anyone who may have seen, heard or videotaped the incident to contact Detective W. Thompson at (804) 646-3925 or by calling Crime Stoppers at (804) 780-1000.

You can also contact Crime Stoppers by going online to www.7801000.com or sending a text message to 274637, using the keyword “iTip” followed by the tip.

All Crime Stoppers methods are anonymous.