Omaha police said a suspect found dead after a standoff Monday died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

According to police, the Omaha Police SWAT team was trying to serve a warrant on a home in the Monmouth Park area. The SWAT Team entered the residence and was preparing to go down the stairs into the basement when they heard two gunshots coming from the basement.

"Shots were fired inside by the suspect. No shots were fired by Omaha police. We left the house we were able to get all the other residents out of the house at that time. I believe there were seven other residents living there," said Omaha Police Deputy Chief Libby Davis.

The seven occupants that were taken from the residence were between the ages of 17-47 years of age. Police said 19-year old Tyler Krebs-Johnson was the only suspect left inside the residence.

Police said Krebs-Johnson was the subject of an active investigation for illegal narcotics and firearms distribution. Krebs-Johnson also had a misdemeanor warrant for his arrest.

Officers set up a perimeter in the area. Omaha Police Crisis Negotiators responded to the scene and attempted to establish contact with Krebs-Johnson.

"We actually were able to put in a throw phone to make contact with the individual. We used flash bangs to try to get his attention. We used the bullhorn several times. We were getting no response from the suspect," said Davis.

The Negotiators were unable to establish contact with Krebs-Johnson. The investigation has determined that a post was made on Krebs-Johnson’s Facebook page at 7:08 a.m. that said, “Last post went out witta bang”.

At 10:25 a.m. the Omaha Police video camera equipped robot was deployed into the residence. Krebs-Johnson was found deceased from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. A .40 caliber Smith & Wesson semi-auto handgun was located in Krebs-Johnson’s right hand.

Omaha Fire Medics were on scene and pronounced Krebs-Johnson dead.

Investigators said they found seven spent shell casings at the scene. Evidence from the scene showed that Krebs-Johnson, while in the basement, fired his handgun towards the stairwell and in an upwards direction to the top of the stairs.

No Omaha Police Officers discharged their firearms during this incident. The Officer-Involved Investigations Team is investigating this incident. State law requires when a suspect dies while being apprehended or in police custody there must be a grand jury investigation.

One occupant from the house was arrested as part of the narcotics and firearms distribution investigation. Twenty-year-old Nicholas Paez was booked in to the Douglas County jail for possession with intent to deliver a controlled substance.