Naperville Mayor Steve Chirico conceded police "could've done better" than waiting three days to tell the media and the public about a fatal traffic crash in which a Naperville woman died after her car collided with a police squad car.

DuPage County Coroner Richard A. Jorgensen's office was similarly slow to release information about the April 8 crash and subsequent death of Phyllis C. Manderson.

Advertisement

Jorgensen did not post a news release about the matter until Thursday -- five days after the crash -- and then did so only after three days of inquiry from the Naperville Sun.

Jorgensen has not returned phone calls.

Advertisement

The situation was further muddied by the fact that Manderson, 73, originally was identified by police as Phyllis Davis. She lived with one of her daughters, Cari Murawski, who on Thursday said Davis was her mother's previous married name.

The crash occurred about 6 p.m. April 8 at the intersection of Ogden Avenue and Feldott Lane, according to a Naper Notify bulletin sent to residents. The bulletin urged residents to avoid the intersection.

Murawski, who lives only blocks away on Periwinkle Lane, said her mother had been on her way home from a church service at the time.

A news release was issued the afternoon of April 11 noting that the crash involved a collision between the car driven by Manderson and a marked squad car driven by a 26-year department veteran and resulted in a fatality.

Naperville police typically contact local media within hours of fatal traffic crashes, robberies and similarly serious events. In this case, a news release was not issued for nearly three full days and provided no information on the time of the crash or other details.

Chirico said he was with police Chief Robert Marshall at an awards presentation ceremony when Marshall learned via telephone about the crash.

"When the information came to him" regarding the severity of the crash and the officer's involvement in it, Marshall "immediately made the decision to have the investigation done by others," Chirico said. Members of the DuPage County Accident Reconstruction Team are heading up the probe.

A spokesman for the DuPage County Sheriff's Office said the crash investigation might last a week or longer. The police officer involved in the crash was not seriously hurt, and was expected to return to active duty.

Advertisement

"We certainly don't want to be making comments on an investigation we are not conducting … and we don't want to say or do anything that might (taint) the investigation or make it biased," Chirico said.

"I think you make a fair point about this delay (in releasing information.) What we should have done, in my view, was to immediately release the information to you," he said.

"We could've done better, I think."

Cmdr. Lou Cammiso, the police department's public information officer, said Naperville police "were coordinating with DuPage County (police) as to what to release and when to release it, and they were fine with us releasing the information that we released on Tuesday" to the media.

He acknowledged the error in the victim's name, saying it had to do with Manderson having a hyphenated last name.

City Prosecutor Kavita C. Athanikar said Naperville Police Department follows a "general order" when traffic crashes involve city vehicles or on-duty employees.

Advertisement

"Fatal, potentially fatal, and serious injury crashes involving city police vehicles or on-duty Naperville police employees" that occur within the city's jurisdiction "shall be investigated by an outside agency," the general order reads in part. Illinois State Police and the DuPage County and Will County sheriff's offices become the designated investigators in such cases, depending on location, according to the order.

According to the coroner's office, Manderson died at 1:41 a.m. April 9 at Edward Hospital in Naperville, several hours after the crash.

"An autopsy was performed on Monday," the online notice said. "The cause and manner of (Manderson's) death are pending autopsy and toxicology results."

Murawski and her husband, Ed, declined to comment Thursday on the crash, referring calls to the family's attorney, Matthew Hector, of Chicago.

"We really won't have a lot of comment until the investigation is done," Hector said Friday. DuPage County investigators "have been in contact with the family," although Hector would not disclose what was discussed.

wbird@tribpub.com