The May 21 killing of a man by four Allentown police officers was “entirely justified,” according to a ruling by the Lehigh County district attorney’s office announced in a Friday news release.

The man, Joseph M. Hodgin, was involved in a police chase following an armed robbery at a Whitehall Township pharmacy, and rammed two police cruisers with a pickup truck, authorities say. During the robbery, Hodgin shot a pharmacy employee, wounding him in the leg, authorities say.

Police officers fired 51 shots and Hodgin died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to a report on Hodgin’s killing written by District Attorney Jim Martin. Hodgin had taken morphine and heroin, police say.

Martin wrote that the use of deadly force was necessary to protect the officers and the public.

“Mr. Hodgin had committed a forcible felony and was attempting to escape while possessing a deadly weapon,” the report states. “Furthermore, he had clearly demonstrated that he had, and would continue to endanger human life or inflict serious bodily injury unless he was arrested without delay.

“It is unfortunate that Joseph Hodgin lost his life in this incident,” the report states.

According to Martin’s report:

Just after 8 a.m. May 21, Hodgin robbed the Whitehall Pharmacy in the 4100 block of Main Street, shooting and seriously wounding worker Kanchan Patel. Patel told police e gave the robber — later identified by police as Hodgin — was armed with a handgun.

Patel said he threw money on the floor and Hodgin grabbed it before fleeing in a pickup truck. Patel crawled to a phone and called for help, giving a description of the pickup truck.

Allentown police spotted Hodgin’s pickup near 10th and Chew streets in the city and tried to stop the vehicle, but Hodgin fled. The truck sped through stop signs and traffic lights and hit several parked cars.

Officers radioed for assistance, and the pickup was stopped near 19th and Green streets after ramming two police cars.

As Allentown police officer Jason Aduddell approached Hodgin’s truck, he saw Hodgin point a snub-nosed silver revolver at police.

Aduddell began yelling, “Gun, gun, he’s got a gun!” as Hodgin raised his weapon at officer Chad E. Mertz.

“In this moment, I was absolutely terrified for officer Mertz’s life because I knew that the suspect had a very clear shot to just pull the trigger,” Aduddell said in the report.

Police opened fire, prompting a flurry of shots that left more than two dozen bullet holes in Hodgin’s truck. Hodgin died later at Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest.

After the shooting, police said they found Hodgin’s five-shot revolver that had four spent casings and one bullet in the chamber.

Mertz was treated for injuries he suffered when Hodgin rammed his crusier, authorities said.

pamela.lehman@mcall.com

Twitter @pamelalehman

610-820-6790