LOWER MOUNT BETHEL TOWNSHIP — A Northampton County grand jury has cleared two state troopers who fatally shot a suicidal Lower Mount Bethel Township man, finding they were justified when they opened fire on him outside his mother’s home.

Troopers Eddie Pagan and Jay Splain will not face criminal charges in the May 20 death, with the grand jury concluding in a 17-0 vote that the troopers reasonably believed their lives were in danger when they used their guns, District Attorney John Morganelli announced Wednesday at a news conference.

Killed was 47-year-old Anthony Paul Ardo, who had been suicidal that day and had threatened to “blow himself up” with a bomb loaded with nails if he saw any police officers, the grand jury found. When the troopers opened fire, Ardo was lighting the fuse of an explosive device he had wrapped around his neck. It turned out to be a 6- to 8-inch cylindrical firework, Morganelli said.

“Had he gotten out of the car and laid on the ground, we wouldn’t be here discussing this matter,” Morganelli told reporters. “I think he pretty well knew that trying to light this device in his car, with two cops with guns drawn next to you, was not going to be a good end result.”

Morganelli stopped short of labeling Ardo’s death a case of suicide-by-cop, though he acknowledged that “some people might” call it that.

The grand jury’s findings were welcomed by the commander of the barracks where the two troopers serve. They also were welcomed by a lawyer for Splain, who, according to the investigation, fired the fatal rounds at the farm on the 1300 block of Good Road.

But the grand jury’s work is not over. Morganelli said the panel will issue recommendations in the coming weeks over an issue that arose after Ardo’s shooting, when Morganelli and state police clashed over who should oversee the investigation.

By longstanding policy, state police investigate when troopers are involved in fatal shootings. But days after Ardo’s death, Morganelli ordered an independent probe, sharply criticizing the police for seeking to keep the investigation in-house at a time of heightened scrutiny of law enforcement.

The grand jury’s second report will examine best practices and whether state police comported with them, Morganelli said. It will offer policy recommendations that could be acted upon by lawmakers or other stakeholders, he said.

State police have defended their approach, saying the department has a breadth of resources and strict protocols in place to ensure its investigations are done thoroughly and fairly.

On Wednesday, Capt. Richard D’Ambrosia, the commander of Troop M in Bethlehem, declined to comment on Morganelli’s policy concerns. But D’Ambrosia applauded the grand jury’s decision to clear the two troopers, saying he was always confident they acted appropriately.

“Obviously it is good news for our troopers, but we don’t want to lose sight of the fact that someone lost their life that day,” D’Ambrosia said. “The troopers performed the way they were trained to do.”

Pagan and Splain have been on administrative duties since the shooting. D’Ambrosia called Morganelli’s announcement a “big step” toward them returning to the street, which he said both men look forward to.

Gary Asteak, an attorney who represents Splain, described his client as an experienced trooper who is married and has young children. Splain and Pagan acted appropriately considering the risk Ardo posed, Asteak said.

“This young man equipped himself like a suicide bomber, with an explosive strapped to his body, when the officers reacted,” Asteak said.

Asteak said the shooting has affected Splain.

“He is a professional. He is trained to do what he did,” Asteak said. “But on the other hand, he is a human being. It is unfortunate he had to take a human life, but the alternative is his children would have been orphans and his wife a widow.”

Morganelli said the shooting was captured on a police dashboard camera and observed by independent eyewitnesses who testified Ardo ignored repeated commands from police.

A search of Ardo’s car afterward revealed a “whole trunkful of fireworks and all kinds of other explosive devices,” according to Morganelli, who said they could have produced “quite a scene had that car been blown up.”

A state police explosives expert, Cpl. Michael Sponchiado, testified to the grand jury that the explosive around Ardo’s neck was similar to an aerial firework used at a fireworks display. Sponchiado said it would have been “catastrophic” had it gone off, and would have risked setting off the car’s gas tank.

Splain fired nine shots and Pagan fired two. County Coroner Zachary Lysek identified six gunshot wounds, including fatal ones to the back of the neck, to the mouth, and to the left shoulder.

The day before Ardo’s death, his mother, Jean R. Monaghan, had been granted a restraining order against him, describing drug abuse and unpredictable behavior. In her petition, Monaghan called her son “so volatile” and said he is “very violent and abusive” when high.

Ardo’s sister, Gina Ardo, told The Morning Call after the shooting that her mother was advised to call police by the suicide hotline, and only wanted him to get help. Gina Ardo labeled her brother a “threat to no one but himself.”

On Wednesday, two phone listings for Monaghan had been disconnected. A message left for Gina Ardo was not returned.

Anthony Ardo’s death was one of two fatal police shootings in the Lehigh Valley on that weekend in May.

In Lehigh County, armed robbery suspect Joseph M. Hodgin, 43, of North Whitehall Township was killed May 21 by Allentown officers after ramming two cruisers with a pickup truck and pointing a gun at police. Beforehand, he’d shot a pharmacy employee in the leg, wounding him, authorities said.

In July, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin ruled officers’ use of deadly force was “entirely justified,” saying it was necessary to protect police and the public.

riley.yates@mcall.com

Twitter @riley_yates

610-554-8245