The Osceola County sheriff says he believes his deputy was justified in fatally shooting a man Sunday during a scuffle after a failed traffic stop.

A driver along Florida’s Turnpike saw a man driving erratically about 11 p.m. Saturday near mile marker 196 and called authorities, Sheriff Russ Gibson said at a press conference Sunday afternoon.

Deputy John Stubbs, a two-year veteran of the agency, stopped the driver, Carlos Garcia Petrovich, but he was “not cooperative” and fled, Gibson said.

Since it was a traffic infraction, Stubbs couldn’t chase after Petrovich, Gibson said.

He drove around the area and spotted Petrovich stopped at a Pilot gas station at 3050 State Road 60 in the Yeehaw Junction area early Sunday.

Stubbs approached the driver and tried to arrest him but he ran.

Gibson said Stubbs chased on foot to the other side of the gas station and called for backup but Petrovich became violent and the two ended up in a scuffle.

Stubbs was bitten and “attacked,” Gibson said.

Osceola County Deputy John Stubbs

That’s when Stubbs pulled out his gun and fired, killing Petrovich, Gibson said.

“The deputy thought his life was in peril,” Gibson said. “He was alone and called for backup … He did what he had to do to end that threat on his life.”

Stubbs was treated at a local hospital for “superficial injuries,” Gibson said, adding he’s expected to be OK but was “pretty shaken up.”

Gibson said he believes the shooting was justified, but the Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating and will make that determination.

The Sheriff’s Office would not comment on whether the deputy was equipped with a taser or baton or why a gun was used instead of those weapons, citing the FDLE investigation.

Gibson said since his department does not have body cameras and the deputy did not have a dash camera, he does not know if there is any footage of the altercation.

“We want them here and it’s something I will be bringing to this agency,” Gibson said of the cameras.

This is the second deputy-involved shooting this year in Osceola County.

The first was in January after a man started firing at them at the Friendly Village Inn motel on U.S. Highway 192.

The man was hit three times but recovered from his injuries and was arrested.

chayes@orlandosentinel.com; rygillespie@orlandosentinel.com