SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO — Prosecutors announced Tuesday that three South San Francisco police officers were justified when they fatally shot a despondent man who fired a shotgun inside his home and then brandished that weapon at them during a dark and foggy night in May.

According a report on the May 23 shooting issued by San Mateo County District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe, John Wayne Eno, 59, was in a prolonged bout with depression over the death of his wife two years earlier, and initially told police dispatchers that he fired his shotgun at “someone who was trying to kill him” inside his home.

Some of Eno’s relatives reportedly told investigators that he suffered from anxiety problems and that on the night he died he may have armed himself and faced officers in a possible “suicide by cop” scenario, though that motive is disputed by other family members. A neighbor said Eno had withered away physically after the loss of his wife sapped his appetite.

It was with that background that Eno called police multiple times just before midnight from his home on Cork Place and made “excited” and “incoherent statements,” asserting that people in his home were pushing drugs on him, and later that he had shot at someone in self-defense.

Officers Andrew Constantino and Vivian Nguyen were the first to respond to the 911 call, approaching the home amid “heavy fog and darkness,” and as they got close saw Eno carrying what looked like a rifle or a shotgun, holding the weapon vertically.

Moments later, investigators say, Eno racked the shotgun in front of the officers, who were telling him to drop the weapon. The sound of the shotgun possibly loading a round prompted Constantino to fire four times at Eno, which was followed by Eno dropping his weapon and dropping into nearby vegetation.

This occurred just as officers John Paulo and Daniel Finnegan arrived at the scene, and they joined the chorus of orders for Eno to show them his hands, the report stated.

Both a neighbor and officers reportedly saw what they thought to be a black firearm lying in the street, though it would later turn out to be a piece of a windshield wiper that broke off after being hit by gunfire. But in the moment, the thought that the fragment could be a gun prompted Paulo to fire a round in Eno’s direction when he rose and actually threw an orange traffic cone, according to the report.

After that shot, Eno reportedly got up and, with a limp, took cover behind a nearby vehicle. That was around when Officer Chris Devan, who was arriving at the scene, heard shouts of “We need a an officer with a rifle here now!” prompting him to retreat to his police vehicle and retrieve his rifle.

A multitude of simultaneous frantic officer radio transmissions, and a lack of response from some because of clogged airwaves, apparently gave Devan the impression that he was entering an active gun battle or an ambush, according to the report. Devan found cover and fired his rifle nine times at Eno, about the same moment that Paulo fired three times.

Soon after, the officers found Eno suffering from multiple gunshot wounds. He was pronounced dead at the scene. In the vicinity, police recovered a loaded Mossberg 500 shotgun registered to Eno that had been fired once. A later search of his home found evidence of shotgun pellets that had been fired at a television in a bedroom.

The District Attorney report stated that Finnegan was wearing a body-worn camera that recorded all of the audio from the confrontation but limited video because of his geographical position in the encounter. Paulo also had an issued camera but left it at the police station because of the urgency of the 911 call, the report stated.

Despite the officers’ suspicion that Eno was either under the influence of drugs or alcohol, suffering a mental-health crisis, or both, Wagstaffe said a chance to employ their crisis-intervention training was precluded because Eno had already fired his weapon and was carrying it when officers arrived.

The report concluded that the officers who opened fire, given the information they had going into the call and the furtive movements of Eno throughout the encounter, “exercised their police powers in a lawful manner against a person who produced a shotgun and racked it as he was facing the officers.”