An investigation showed that police Sgt. Brian Nice was "absolutely justified" in shooting Jerry Grant Thursday evening, District Attorney Craig Stedman ruled Friday.

•••

East Hempfield Township police Sgt. Brian Nice was out of cover space and had no choice but to fire upon an armed man Thursday evening, investigators said.

Nice's single shot killed Jerry Grant, 65, in the driveway of Grant's home at 120 Teal Terrace.

After his office's investigation, Lancaster County District Attorney Craig Stedman ruled Friday that the shooting was "absolutely justified," because Grant was agitated and was pointing a revolver as he marched toward the sergeant.

Nice, a 22-year veteran policeman, had repeatedly asked Grant to drop the gun before he fired, witnesses said.

Investigators believe Grant had become mentally unstable after being diagnosed with cancer recently.

The incident began when Grant retrieved a gun from his bedroom, causing his son-in-law, Adam Aloisi, to call 911 and flee the house.

Three officers arrived at Grant's home about 7 p.m. At least four neighbors witnessed what followed, and their accounts, along with those of the officers involved, all matched, detectives said.

Nice was the first officer to walk down the driveway. Grant emerged from his garage, pointing the .32-caliber Smith & Wesson revolver directly at the sergeant.

Nice "pleaded" with the man to drop the gun, neighbors told detectives.

"He ignored (Nice) over and over again. Grant advanced toward Nice," Stedman said.

Nice backed off and took cover behind two parked vehicles, still pleading with the man, Stedman said.

"He was at the far end of one vehicle. He had to make a decision if he was going to expose himself to cover or discharge his weapon," Stedman said.

Nice then made the choice - which Stedman said was overdue - to fire.

The bullet pierced Grant's adrenal gland and diaphragm and damaged major blood vessels before lodging in the left side of his chest, Lancaster County Coroner Dr. Stephen Diamantoni said.

"He died almost immediately after the shooting," the coroner said.

Nice followed procedure by firing toward the man's "center body mass," said Michael Landis, chief of Lancaster County detectives.

"There is no such thing as shooting to wound," the detective said.

Grant didn't fire any shots Thursday evening, and his revolver turned out to be unloaded, Landis said.

Investigators said Grant may have wanted to be shot.

"That would be speculation, but that's probably a likely scenario," Landis said.

Stedman said Nice went above and beyond police procedure in efforts to avoid shooting at the man, calling the sergeant's conduct "professional and absolutely justified."

"It is unquestionably a justified shooting," Stedman said. "He would have been justified discharging prior to when he did."

Nice was put on administrative leave Thursday evening. Now that the investigation is completed, he may return to work at his own discretion and that of East Hempfield Township police Chief Douglas Bagnoli.

East Hempfield Township police officers Lee Carpenter and Christopher Chance didn't fire any shots during the brief standoff, according to investigators.

Grant had a history of mental disturbance, including suicidal thoughts, investigators said. He moved to Lancaster County from his native Nevada several years ago.

He had eaten dinner with his daughter and son-in-law, Aloisi, just before the standoff.

Aloisi then drove him home to pick up personal items he needed while staying at Conestoga View. Grant had moved there because he could no longer use the stairs at 120 Teal Terrace. Grant went into his bedroom and walked out with the gun wrapped in a cloth, investigators said.

Aloisi tried to reason with Grant before calling 911 and fleeing, investigators said.

Tests are being performed to determine whether Grant was under the influence of alcohol or narcotics during the incident, but investigators said there was nothing to indicate that he was.

"From our point of view, that would make no difference," Stedman said.

"The facts are very clear; it is a sad, tragic loss of life."

E-mail: bhambright@lnpnews.com