BETH BRELJE

Brutality by Eastern Pike Regional Police caused the death of a Westfall landscaper who was suffering a medical emergency, a federal lawsuit alleges.

A call for help was made to 911 by Shirley Berry and Larry Berry Sr. on Dec. 15, 2008. Their diabetic son, Larry Berry Jr., was experiencing hallucinations from low blood sugar at his parents' Milford home, according to the complaint his parents filed.

Larry Berry's last hours are described in the suit, but crucial details are missing and some are inconsistent.

Use of a Taser and/or pepper spray contributed to Berry's death, his parents say. But the incident happened eight months before the department got a grant to purchase Tasers, Police Commission Solicitor Tom Mincer said.

According to the complaint:

Police had been called to Berry's parents' home six months earlier and had taken him to a medical facility for treatment related to his diabetes.

At that time, police told Shirley Berry, "If she were to call again for assistance, (Larry Berry) would not be brought for medical treatment, but, rather would be taken into custody and arrested," court papers say.

Why would police arrest someone for a diabetic condition? They didn't, Mincer said.

He said it's clear to anyone who hears the 911 recording that police — not an ambulance — were specifically needed to respond to an incident at the home.

The same officer who had responded six months earlier met Shirley Berry on the porch. She told him Berry was hallucinating again, court papers say.

Berry came to the door in a T-shirt, shorts and sandals. The officer told Berry he would not be arrested and that he should come out to the porch to smoke a cigarette, court papers say.

When Berry stepped outside, a second officer approached and Shirley Berry was told to stay inside.

The Berrys believe their son was confronted by police and then taken into custody using unnecessary force.

Berry was thrown to the ground, restrained and handcuffed. It was extreme treatment that stopped his heart, court papers say.

Shirley Berry found her son on his side in the driveway. He was not moving and was handcuffed from behind with at least three police officers standing at his side.

Court papers do not describe what caused the arrest, how it moved from the porch to the driveway or how Berry transitioned from planning to smoke a cigarette to unconsciousness.

Shirley Berry told police her son was not breathing, reminded them that he was diabetic and asked them to check his pulse. Her request was ignored and she was told to leave, court papers say.

Larry Berry Sr. also told police his son was not breathing. An officer told him he could see steam coming from Berry's mouth (the temperature was zero) and that Berry was "faking it and holding his breath," court papers say.

Westfall Volunteer Fire Department and Regional EMS took Larry Berry Jr. to Bon Secours Community Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at about 9:53 p.m.

A Pennsylvania State Police investigation into the death upheld the actions police took that night, Mincer said.

"Nothing our officers did was wrong or in any way touches on what they said in the lawsuit," Mincer said.

What exactly caused his death? An autopsy done in New York could offer some insight, but it has not been made available, Mincer said.

Larry Berry Jr. had several run-ins with police, dating back to 1994, when he was accused of stealing a car and taking it to the Bronx with two partners to sell for cocaine money, according to public records.