A Middleton couple, injured during a police chase in 2004 in which a Fond du Lac man died, sued the Middleton Police Department and one of its officers this week, alleging negligence on the part of the officer and the department.

The lawsuit was filed Tuesday by Jason Schmitt and Dayna Johnson Schmitt, who were injured on Oct. 3, 2004, when their pickup truck was struck a car driven by Michael J. Thiel, 21, who was being chased by Middleton police officer Mark Walther. The crash occurred on University Avenue at Capital Avenue in Madison. Thiel died in the crash.

The lawsuit alleges that Walther was negligent in pursuing Thiel at high speed and in continuing to chase him even after he had the license plate number of the car that Thiel was driving.

It also alleges that the Middleton Police Department was negligent in maintaining inappropriate policies concerning high-speed pursuits, failing to train officers in high-speed pursuits and failing to develop and enforce a written policy on pursuits that considers road conditions, population density, severity of the offense and the necessity of the pursuit.

The Schmitts say in their lawsuit that they suffered injuries, medical expenses, pain and suffering, emotional trauma and lost wages, are seeking compensation for their injuries and other losses, along with attorney fees and other costs.

Police Chief Brad Keil and his command staff were not available for comment Thursday, nor was city Administrator Michael Davis. City Attorney Larry Bechler said he had not seen the lawsuit but said the couple had earlier filed a claim against the city.

The chase began after Walther noticed Thiel driving erratically and tried to stop him. When he turned on his emergency lights, Thiel took off east on University at high speed. At Capital, the car Thiel was driving struck the Schmitts' pickup and a utility pole.

Police never determined why Thiel chose to flee. Dane County Coroner John Stanley said Thiel was driving with a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.18 percent, more than twice the maximum level for Wisconsin drivers of 0.08 percent.