SAN RAFAEL – Multiple law enforcement agencies assisted in a seven-hour incident that resulted in the death of a homicide suspect in San Rafael May 26.

Acting on an anonymous tip, New Mexico State Police officers arrived at a San Rafael residence to apprehend Hector Gamboa, according to information provided by the NMSP public information office. Gamboa was wanted in Albuquerque on suspicion of homicide in connection with the death of his girlfriend earlier this month. Officers received permission to search the residence, where Gamboa then barricaded himself.

NMSP information states the first officers on the scene perceived a threat to officer safety and fell back, establishing a perimeter around the residence and calling in special units to assist with the situation because of Gamboa’s violent history.

“Cibola County Sheriff’s office provided deputies to assist with the perimeter,” Sgt. James Jenkins of District 6’s Milan NMSP station said.

Jenkins said officers arrived at about 1:30 pm and called in the NMSP Tactical team when the suspect refused to cooperate and appeared to present a threat to officers and to a civilian in the residence with him. The NMSP Crisis Negotiations team was also called in. NMSP Chief Pete Kassetas requested the Albuquerque SWAT team assist with the standoff. “Using specialist teams is standard procedure in situations considered volatile by officers on the scene,” Jenkins said.

“At about 8:30 pm Gamboa left the residence, appeared to charge officers and displayed a bladed weapon,” Jenkins said. Shots were fired by an Albuquerque officer, according to official NMSP information. Gamboa was pronounced dead on the scene.

There is no additional information available on who authorized shots being fired or the officer involved. In accordance with standard procedure, the officer-involved shooting is under investigation by the NMSP Investigations Bureau. The name of the officer will be released when interviews have been completed, according to official NMSP information.

By Helen Davis

Sun Correspondent