Livingston County Prosecutor William Vailliencourt said he has reviewed an investigation into an officer-involved shooting earlier this month and determined no charges are warranted against the officers involved.

Vailliencourt said the officers shot Ian Thomas Little, 36, who later died of his injuries.

The incident occurred May 9 near Spencer Road and US-23 in Brighton Township, near the old State Police post. Little died May 25.

“I have concluded the use of force was justified,” Vailliencourt said.

According to the investigation, which included witness statements and video, police responded to Little’s residence for a welfare check after receiving a report that Little might harm himself.

Little had attempted suicide on Sept. 7, 2016 when he tried to hang himself at his residence, according to Vailliencourt, but was saved by a Livingston County Sheriff’s Department deputy.

Vailliencourt said the investigation determined that, when police made their initial contact with Little at his home on May 9, he displayed what appeared to be a black handgun and pointed it toward the door.

The responding Michigan State Police officer retreated and took cover. Little then came out of the home carrying a handgun. By then, other officers had responded to the scene and repeatedly gave him “loud, verbal commands” to drop the gun.

Little didn't heed the officers' commands and pointed the gun at his head, before lowering it and waving the gun toward officers several times.

Efforts to convince him to drop the gun were unsuccessful, according to the investigation, and Little continued to advance toward the officers with the gun.

He also pointed the gun at officers located on the perimeter that had been set up.

A Michigan State Police sergeant and Livingston County deputy responded to the “immediate threat created by Little’s actions by shooting Little,” according to Vailliencourt.

Officers learned after the incident that the weapon Little had was a black air pistol. Vailliencourt indicated that the weapon is visually indistinguishable from a firearm.

Under Michigan law, use of deadly force is permitted when a person has an honest and reasonable belief that he or another person is danger of being killed or seriously injured and that immediate action is necessary to protect himself or other persons.

“In this case, the two officers were presented with an immediate threat to themselves and other officers by a person armed with what they honestly and reasonably believed to be a firearm,” Vailliencourt said. “Both officers acted reasonably and lawfully in their use of deadly force against Mr. Little. The shooting was completely justified.”

Vailliencourt expressed his personal thanks for the cooperation of the other departments.