Staff Writer

Portsmouth Herald

EPPING — O’neil Cinemas will present the Granite Youth Film Festival with the United Way on Sunday, June 4 at 5 p.m. and Monday, June 5 at 5 p.m.

The film festival is a project of United Way of the Greater Seacoast and the Granite Youth Alliance, and is sponsored by Exeter Hospital and Northeast Credit Union. It showcases student-produced films on the topic of substance abuse from middle schools and high schools across the Greater Seacoast region. The idea is to create awareness about the value of youth peer leadership and the consequences of substance misuse, to reveal what local communities and individuals are doing to promote action, offer solutions, and spark change.

This year, there are 13 participating youth teams: Farmington High School, Henry Wilson Memorial School (Farmington), Nute Middle School/High School (Milton), Newmarket Junior Senior High School, Epping Middle School, Epping High School, Iber Holmes Gove School (Raymond), Raymond High School, Dover High School, Seabrook Middle School, Rochester Middle School, Somersworth High School, and Cooperative Middle School (Stratham).

The filmmakers range in age from 12 to 18 years old, and all of the short films are written, directed, filmed, and star the young men and women on these teams.

O’neil Cinemas owners Dan and Tim O’Neil are honored to bring this festival to the theater for another year, marking the fifth one in a row.

“O’neil Cinemas is honored to be able to showcase these talented young men and women and celebrate these groundbreaking projects they’ve been working on over the last couple of months,” says Dan O’Neil.

Over the course of two nights, youth teams will each be presenting their 3 to 5 minute films. In addition to the film presentations, there will also be door prizes from local businesses, including Double Midnight Comics, Water Country, and Captain’s Cove Adventure Golf. All who attend are eligible.

“This film festival is part of a larger goal to empower young people to take a stand, gain leadership skills and advocate for change about issues they care about,” says Janet Guen, Senior Director of Development at the United Way of the Greater Seacoast. “We’re excited to be working with O’neil Cinemas to put on another great film festival.”

The festival will take place at O’neil Cinemas in Brickyard Square at 24 Calef Highway. Tickets to the showings are $5 each and can be purchased at oneilcinemas.com.

For more information visit uwgs.org/films or purchase tickets at oneilcinemas.com.