"Dionne retreated into the house, apparently injured, and began shouting for the deputies to kill him," the report states.

Example video title will go here for this video

ARUNDEL (NEWS CENTER Maine) -- A report released by the Maine Attorney General Thursday determined that two York County Sheriff’s deputies acted in self-defense when they shot and killed a man at his Arundel home in May 2017.

The report states that Michelle Dionne told Biddeford Police she was assaulted by her husband, Chad Dionne, at their home in Arundel on May 29, 2017.

Michelle Dionne went to her mother’s home while three York County Sheriff’s deputies, Deputy Eric Trainque, Sgt. Steven Thistlewood, and Deputy Heath Mains, went to arrest Chad Dionne for domestic violence assault.

The deputies approached the home on foot, and noticed Dionne asleep in a chair in the living room. They knocked on the window and door multiple times until he woke up.

After Sgt. Thistlewood identified himself and asked to speak with Dionne, he, and deputy Mains, noticed Dionne go to the refrigerator and appear to search for something.

Sgt. Thistlewood saw Dionne return with a handgun.

“Standing in the threshold of the door, [Dionne] extended his arms and pointed his hand gun at Sgt. Thistlewood,” the AG’s report states. “The deputies gave verbal commands of ‘drop the gun, drop the gun, do it now!’”

Sgt. Thistlewood fired at Dionne before moving around the corner of the home. He saw Dionne coming out the door again, and fired at Dionne again. When Dionne turned and focused on Deputy Mains, Mains fired at Dionne.

“Dionne retreated into the house, apparently injured, and began shouting for the deputies to kill him,” the report states.

The deputies tried to force open the door to assist Dionne, but were unsuccessful until more officers arrived with a battering ram.

Mr. Dionne died at a Biddeford hospital. The Office of the Chief Medical Examiner determined that Dionne sustained five gunshot wounds, and had a blood alcohol level of 0.242 percent.