Staff report

Independent Mail

A Greenville man is facing multiple charges after his attempt to get away from Liberty police ended in a crash that killed an Easley man, investigators said.

Liberty Police Chief Adam Gilstrap said officers attempted to stop Nicholas Keith Blackstock, 29, sometime around 10:15 p.m. Thursday because of a problem with his brake lights. Gilstrap said his officers also had information from Pickens police that Blackstock may be in possession of illegal drugs.

Gilstrap said in an interview that officers began trying to stop Gilstrap on S.C. 93 in Liberty, but he fled from them. Gilstrap estimated that officers chased Blackstock for 10 to 15 minutes at speeds that ranged from 50 to 90 mph. Posted speed limits for parts of town in the chase range from 30 to 55 mph, he said.

The chase ended when Blackstock crossed over into oncoming traffic on U.S. 123 and struck an approaching driver, Gilstrap said. The driver, 59-year-old Steven Louis Richardson of Easley, was pronounced dead at the scene of the crash at about 10:30 p.m., according to Pickens County Coroner Kandy Kelley.

Inmate with Anderson ties among 4 found dead

Gilstrap said officers found methamphetamine in Blackstock's car after the crash. He said there was more than a gram of meth, but less than 10 grams.

Blackstock was uninjured in the wreck and was sent to the Pickens County Detention Center on South Carolina Highway Patrol Charges of driving under suspension and felony driving under the influence, according to electronic records.

Blackstock was later charged with failing to stop for a blue light in a crash involving death and with possessing meth with intent to distribute it, according to arrest warrants.

Meth, marijuana, digital scales, multiple cellphones and five needles were found in the 2003 Chevy Cavalier Blackstock was driving, according to an incident report from the Liberty Police Department.

Blackstock was denied bail Friday.

Anderson remains in severe drought status