There’s an issue I’ve heard about, but never followed up on in this column. I’ve read something from The Center for Media and Democracy, and then I think I heard Lou Dobbs cover it a bit on CNN. But by and large, most of the media has ignored it. The issue is the Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America (SPP). This is a plan agreed to back in March of 2005, by President Bush, then President of Mexico, Mr. Fox, and then Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Martin.

The plan effectively erases the two borders between our three countries. Yes, you heard me right. Republican presidential candidate, Texan Ron Paul said in Oct. 2006, “By now many Texans have heard about the proposed ‘NAFTA Superhighway.’ What you may not know is the extent to which plans for such a superhighway are moving forward without congressional oversight or media attention.” And there’s the rub.

I’ll be frank in that I don’t know enough about the bill to determine whether it’s good, bad, or a wash. There’s a lot of information on the Internet, the government giving its pro side, with some Democrats, Republicans and Libertarians giving the con. But we should all be paying attention. “Google” North American Union for a bevy of facts and opinions. This seems to be less about politics and more about some thinking we’re giving up U.S. sovereignty.

Anyone who has followed politics for the last 25 years or so has probably heard of the conspiracy theorists speaking of the coming of a New World Order, where the United States would cede its sovereignty to a world government. You would invariably hear mentioned the Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilateral Commission and the wealthiest folks in the world as the real power brokers and de facto leaders.

Presidents and prime ministers were mere figureheads allotted some power, but not the final arbiters as to how the future of the world would unfold.

President Bush’s father actually used the term “New World Order,” but I’m not sure we ever understood the meaning. A lot of us (me included) thought this sounded a bit kooky and paranoid. Now I’m on the fence until I hear and learn more.

Some of the Web sites on the SPP say this is why Bush and some in the U.S. Senate, in both parties, are pushing this new immigration bill. Any enforcement of our current laws would fly in the face of the SPP.

Some say that’s also why we are lax in checking truck cargo going through our Northern and Southern borders. We’re not tightening our laws, we’re loosening them to grease the skids for the SPP.

I happen to think the immigration bill Bush, Kennedy, McCain and other senators are pushing is necessary in some fashion. But it’s clear it has flaws too. They say it’s a compromise. But polls show most Americans, especially Republicans, are furious with Bush and note that this is ripping the GOP apart.

No matter how you feel about the bill, why would Bush and this handful of senators push something that seems extremely unpopular with most of the U.S. citizenry? Maybe it’s because the end game has been under the radar for the most part, but I’m just speculating. Though I’m ostensibly here to give my opinions weekly in this paper, I’d rather not pass judgment, but give some information and see what others have heard on this subject as they call or write to the paper. Again, the upsetting part as Mr. Paul says, is that it’s being done with little press and no congressional oversight. Surely this deserves vigorous public debate.

The naysayers say that Mr. Bush wants to create something akin to the European Union, He would expand NAFTA, effectively sanctioning unimpeded movement of people, goods and monies in the three countries. They say it will end our Constitutional Republic, Bill of Rights, legal system, and freedoms. One Web site says, “Our Executive Branch is “harmonizing” all of the regulatory laws with Mexico, a corrupt oligarchy, and Canada, a socialist parliamentary system. Their goal … a totalitarian police state.”

That’s a very serious charge and does sound a bit like the feverish ravings of some very right wing militia types, hiding in the glens, hoarding their canned goods and ammo waiting for the inevitable revolution. However there are other voices of reason saying somewhat the same thing, albeit perhaps in softer, less apocalyptic tones.

The proponents of this plan can be found at spp.gov. This government Web site says SSP will bring the costs of goods down, make the three countries more competitive, supply common aviation security and make it easier for exporters to qualify for duty-free status.

They cite a new pilot program in Chicago and El Paso to repatriate Mexican Nationals, better cooperation in crime fighting, drug and human trafficking, and the list of positive attributes goes on.

President Bush says the SPP makes a common commitment to “markets and democracy, freedom and trade, mutual prosperity and security.” The site says a task force proposes the creation of a North American community by 2010. Its boundaries will be defined by a common external tariff and outer security perimeter, within which the movement of people, products and capital will be legal, orderly and safe.

Homeland Security Secretary Mike Chertoff, Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez, Secretary of State Condi Rice, and their Canadian and Mexican counterparts have given their imprimatur. It certainly looks like a done deal. One wonders if the Canadian and Mexican people are in the dark as well.

***

David Paul Brown is a Paradise resident who loves politics.