Staff reports

The Herald-Mail

MARTINSBURG, W.Va. — A 62-year-old Berkeley County, W.Va., man died Monday night in a police-involved shooting after he reportedly threatened to shoot himself at a small farm off W.Va. 45 near Gerrardstown, W.Va.

The Berkeley County Sheriff's Department didn't release the man's name pending notification of next of kin.

The man died Monday shortly after 10 p.m. while he was being flown to a Virginia hospital, police said.

Berkeley County Sheriff Curtis Keller said the man was shot once in the abdomen after he fired at least one shot toward officers during the incident at 68 Leonard Drive.

"It went above my head. That's all I can tell you," Keller said of at least one round that was fired by the man from his .357 revolver. "It was close enough I could hear it whizzing by."

Under standard procedure, the two deputies who were involved in the shooting were placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation, Keller said.

The deputies and West Virginia State Police troopers who responded to the scene weren't injured.

It wasn't clear how many times the deputies fired their weapons, but Keller said the man was shot with a rifle.

The officers weren't identified.

Police initially responded to the residence Monday at 7:18 p.m. to investigate a report of a possible suicide attempt by a man.

The owners of the property where the man lived in a mobile home told authorities that they were concerned about him because he had made suicidal threats, Keller said.

He said that the man also had told officers that he was going to shoot anybody who responded if they called for help.

A female owner of the property who attempted to "settle him down and get him under control" told authorities that he fired his gun while she was standing close to him, scaring her and prompting concern for his welfare, Keller said.

Deputies who responded were told by at least one property owner that the man had returned to his mobile home following the incident. But attempts by officers to communicate with him in the residence led to the discovery that he wasn't there, he said.

Officers made the discovery after shooting gas into the mobile home, Keller said.

While authorities were regrouping to try to find him, Keller said deputies saw the man walking through a field from a barn on the property toward the officers with a gun in his hands at about 9 p.m.

"We kept hollering at him trying to tell him to ... stop and drop the gun and put his hands up, at which time he pulled the gun up and shot at us," Keller said.

At one point, the man stopped and remained there for about 30 seconds, then he brought the gun up and fired it, prompting officers to return fire, he said.

"We did everything we could to keep from doing what we did," said Keller, who described the officers' actions as "very professional."

There was still light at the time of the shooting, and Keller said deputies clearly knew who was approaching them.

Medics were staged nearby due to the situation. Deputies and state troopers immediately administered first aid after the shooting.

The man died about eight minutes before the helicopter reached Inova Fairfax Hospital in Falls Church, Va., Keller said.

Preliminary autopsy findings indicated that the man died from the gunshot wound, police said.

An internal investigation of the officers' actions is being reviewed by sheriff's department Capt. Willie Johnson.

The Berkeley County Prosecuting Attorney's Office was notified of the incident, Keller said.

Man well armed

The man lived on the farm property for 10 to 12 years and had been staying in a mobile home.

Keller said the man had about 10 firearms, including rifles and pistols, in the mobile home where he lived, and all of them were loaded.

Three or four of the weapons were near the door, Keller said.

"We have no indication that he wasn't allowed to have weapons," he said.

Keller said the man was a handyman for the property owners, and told police that he drank alcohol regularly and had been drinking earlier Monday.

The property owners told police that the man typically got "a little rowdy" when he was drinking, but they became concerned about his behavior Monday night and were unable to calm him down as had been done in the past, Keller said.

Officers also were told that the property owners who witnessed the shooting were aware that the man had kept his firearms loaded.