UPDATE:

Henry County Coroner Derek Wright confirms the suspect in Friday night's officer-involved shooting has died.

Wright identified the man as Charles Darnell Baker, Jr., 29, of Union Springs. He was pronounced dead at the Southeast Alabama Medical Center. The driver of the vehicle, at this time, has not been charged and his identity is being withheld to protect his privacy.

The shooting happened along Highway 431 between Newville and Abbeville at around 6:45 p.m.

According to Henry County Sheriff Will Maddox, one of his deputies stopped Baker's car for speeding.

Maddox said his deputy smelled alcohol and narcotics coming from the car. . Alcoholic beverages, marijuana, and pills believed to be Ecstasy were recovered at the scene. According to Maddox, the deputy tried to make an arrest, the two suspects began fighting with the deputy.

Maddox said Baker reached for a gun, and that's when his deputy shot Baker. The other suspect surrendered.

As this was going on, a passerby who witnessed the events as they unfolded came to aid of the deputy and assisted in securing the scene and the driver of the vehicle. Henry Co. Sheriff's Dept. would like to thank the brave individual who risked their life in assisting our deputy in a very tense and dangerous incident

WTVY's Madeleine Hackett asked Maddox, "And when you say fighting the victim..what did that entail?"

"Thrashing and punching. Just fighting... a dog fight," says Maddox.

The deputy involved in the incident is currently on paid administrative leave and only received minor physical injuries from the incident. It is standard department procedure for any officer involved in a critical incident to received time off to be with family.

Agents with the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency's (ALEA) State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) are conducting this investigation at the request of Maddox.

Wright says Baker's body has been taken to Montgomery for an autopsy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Agents with the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency's (ALEA) State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) are investigating an officer-involved shooting involving the Henry County Sheriff’s Office at the request of Sheriff Will Maddox.

One suspect was injured as a result of the shooting.

The incident occurred Friday, June 2, on U.S. 431 south of Abbeville.

The suspect was taken to Southeast Alabama Medical Center with injuries.

Nothing further is available as the investigation is ongoing.

---------------------------------------------------------------

Henry County Sheriff Will Maddox confirms an officer-involved shooting Friday evening.

It happened during a traffic stop on Highway 431 north of Newville.

Little information is being released at this time.

We do know one person has been taken to a hospital. Their condition is not known.

Maddox says the officer was not shot.

WTVY has a reporter on the way to the scene.

Avoid the area if possible.