After more than six hours of failed negotiations with hostage-taker Luvelle Monroe Kennon Jr. on Halloween 2017, the Riverside Police Department’s SWAT team decided it could wait no longer to storm classroom A-1 at Castle View Elementary School and rescue 70-year-old first-grade teacher Linda Montgomery.

Detective Tanner Paes was the point man on the team monitoring the situation from an adjoining classroom, separated only by a folding wall.

After another team inserted flash-bang devices into the classroom to distract Kennon, Paes attempted to enter. He was able to open the accordion wall only about a foot because it was obstructed by furniture, and Paes got stuck. He scanned the room for the suspect and victim, and found them at his feet, side-by-side in a spooning position. Kennon had his left arm around Montgomery’s neck while holding scissors.

“She feared for her life,” a Riverside County District Attorney’s Office report said.

Fearing that Kennon was about to kill Montgomery – or that he had already harmed her – Paes fired at Kennon two to three times. Montgomery tried to pull away, but Kennon held her and reached for the scissors that he had dropped. That prompted Paes to fire two to three more times.

Montgomery then crawled through Paes’ legs to the adjoining classroom, where she wrapped her arms around the leg of another officer and would not let go.

Kennon, 27, was taken to Riverside Community Hospital, where he died.

Those details and others about how the crisis began — with Kennon demanding to see his daughter — and ended are being reported here for the first time.

The information is contained in two documents: The investigatory report by the DA’s Office, which ruled in October 2018 that Paes’ use of force was justified and that he faced no criminal liability; and in the investigatory report of Mike Bumcrot, a consultant to the Riverside Community Police Review Commission, which on Wednesday, July 24, began discussions on whether Paes’ use of force was within department policy.

The independent, seven-member commission’s opinion is not binding on the Police Department. The department’s internal affairs investigation into whether Paes followed the use-of-force policy will close out after the commission makes its determination, according to Officer Ryan Railsback, a department spokesman.

Wednesday, none of the commissioners made any comments that seemed to question Bumcrot’s conclusion that Paes had acted properly. Montgomery attended the meeting and sat quietly, picking at her clothing and holding her right hand to her chin, as Riverside police Capt. Bruce Blomdahl and Bumcrot briefed the commissioners.

Montgomery declined to comment for this story, though she expressed gratitude and compassion soon after the incident. Montgomery is continuing her recovery and is not teaching.

Kennon’s mother, Tonya, declined to comment for this story through her attorney. Kennon’s family filed a claim for damages with the city but did not follow it up with a lawsuit, according to city spokesman Phil Pitchford.

One of ‘those moods’

Kennon lived with his mother, girlfriend and 7-year-old daughter — one of Montgomery’s students — in Riverside. He was unemployed and spent most of his time playing and writing music. Kennon had been struggling emotionally since his father died in 2013, his mother told DA investigators, and was using marijuana. The autopsy results showed the presence of cannabis, insomnia medication and a painkiller in Kennon.

“(Tonya Kennon) stated there are times he gets ‘these moods’ where he is temperamental, abrasive and paranoid. … (She) would hear him talking to himself in an angry, argumentative tone but he has not been physically violent,” the DA report said.

That changed on Oct. 31, 2017, when Kennon was in one of “those moods,” his mother said. About 11 a.m., Kennon stormed out of the house and — after his mother had taken his car keys — walked the approximate half-mile to the school. His mother drove ahead of him and warned principal Tiffany Farris not to release the daughter to Kennon.

Farris called 911 as Kennon approached the office. Kennon entered, demanding his daughter.

“The principal heard Kennon say he was going to get his daughter no matter what,” Farris told investigators.

As Kennon rushed through a back door leading to campus, Farris chased after him while ordering secretary Stephanie Zolfaghari to place the school on lockdown.

Montgomery, meanwhile, heard the lockdown announcement and opened the door to the classroom to gather her students, who were outside at lunch. She recognized Kennon as he approached, she told a DA investigator.

“Where’s my daughter?” he said, grabbing Montgomery’s arms. Then, Carlos Gallardo, a substitute teacher who was meeting his wife on campus for lunch confronted Kennon, who knocked Gallardo down with a punch to the face, according to the commission investigation.

Montgomery ran, but Kennon grabbed her by the shoulder and hair and tried to pull her into the classroom. Gallardo again intervened, only to again be knocked down. Kennon then dragged Montgomery into the classroom.

Kennon barricaded the doors with furniture. He moved a bookshelf to an angle against a wall, forming a space where he and Montgomery would sit for hours as police surrounded the building and students and employees were evacuated to a park.

Montgomery told a DA investigator that she and Kennon spoke little to each other during the standoff. Kennon grabbed a pair of scissors and would tap the open blades against surfaces. Kennon would not respond to negotiators. Police did fool him into answering one of their texts because it came from his mother’s phone. Police, who slipped a tiny camera under the folding wall, could not locate Kennon or Montgomery. They heard only one small cough from the teacher.

“Detective Paes started to think that maybe the victim was dead or dying and that was why the suspect was not talking,” the DA’s report said.

At 5:45 p.m., the order to enter the classroom was given.

Montgomery heard the flash-bang devices and remained still, worried that because she and Kennon had the hoods of their sweatshirts pulled over their heads, that she would be mistaken for her captor.

But Paes was able to distinguish her from Kennon, and Paes ended the ordeal.

“The officer told (Montgomery) that she was safe,” the DA report said. “They walked her to the ambulance and she held onto them for dear life.”