CHESTERFIELD COUNTY, Va. -- One person is dead and two others were hurt in a violent situation inside a Chesterfield home early Friday morning.

Police were called to 15500 block of Silvertree Lane at about 3:40 a.m. for a domestic situation.

When officers arrived they saw two people running from the home.

One of those people had suffered a gunshot wound. That person was taken to the hospital and said to be in stable condition.

The second person seen running from the home was said to be OK, according to police.

The SWAT Team arrived at the home at about 4 a.m. and initiated a hostage rescue.

CBS 6's Brendan King reported hearing a loud blast in the neighborhood at about 5:45 a.m.

SWAT Team members rescued then two people from inside the home. One of the rescued individuals had suffered a gunshot wound. That victim's condition is reported to be stable, according to police.

A third person, identified as 29-year-old Doron L. Royall, was found dead inside the home. Police said he died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

"At this point, the investigation indicates that Royall, who lived at the residence, shot the adult female and exchanged gunfire with the adult male victim during a domestic dispute," a Chesterfield Police spokesperson said.

Crime Insider sources said one of the people who lived inside the home was a teenage girl who attends a local high school.

Royall lived at the home with his girlfriend and her family, according to family members.

Parker Trent, who said he was Royall's uncle, drove to the scene after hearing reports his nephew was involved in an "active police situation."

"My sister said she saw her son last night," Trent said. "He left her house about 1 o'clock last night. He was upset and stressed out."

Trent told CBS 6 that Royall was agitated before the shooting.

"He was stressed about his job," Trent said. "And that he's not in life where he want to be. He just wants a better job and everything."

Neighbors watched the situation unfold throughout Friday morning.

"I saw people with A-R 15s going down the street with full riot gear," Sam Hull explained. "They drove the SWAT car in the front yard."

"The house over there usually is just quiet," neighbor Mike Harris said. "They're good people and they don't cause any problems. It's completely shocking."

This is a developing story. Witnesses can send news tips and photos here.

#BREAKING Armored swat truck rushes to "active police situation" at home near Silver Tree Lane in #Chesterfield @CBS6 pic.twitter.com/3Ex49dGJUV — Brendan King CBS 6 (@ImBrendanKing) June 2, 2017