Police work the scene where a teenager was killed in an officer-involved shooting near 59th Street and State Street in the Washington Park neighborhood on June 2, 2017, in Chicago. (Armando L. Sanchez / Chicago Tribune) (Armando L. Sanchez/Chicago Tribune)

Chicago police officers fatally shot a teenage boy who they said fired a round at officers' unmarked squad car Friday night in Washington Park, authorities said.

The boy was identified as Corsean Lewis, 17, of the 7400 block of South Wabash Avenue, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. He died after being shot multiple times, the office determined following an autopsy Saturday.

Advertisement

The boy was standing with a group in an alley near the 5800 block of South Wabash Avenue while two officers with the department's summer mobile detail unit were responding to a call of a man with a gun about 11:10 p.m., according to a Chicago Police Department statement.

The officers traveled south down the alley, and as they started getting out of the vehicle to approach the group, a man fired a shot at them, striking the front bumper of their car, said Sgt. Al Stinites. The officers shot back, fatally wounding him.

Advertisement

Police found a handgun at the scene and believe the person who fired the shot was killed. The officers were not hurt, Stinites said.

After paramedics arrived, a shirtless male wearing jeans was seen being carried on a stretcher and into an ambulance. The ambulance was parked on gravel next to a lot of grass and left through the alley leading to 59th Street.

A male originally believed to be in his 20s was taken to Stroger Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, said Chicago Fire Department spokesman Michael Del Greco. He had not been identified.

Dozens of police vehicles responded to the alley near 59th and State streets after the emergency was broadcast on police radios. Officers with rifles slung over their shoulders were among the scores of personnel on scene who began taping off the area and pushing pedestrians away from it.

"Shots fired, shots fired, shots fired!" an officer screamed into his radio to dispatch. "Emergency! 59 and State, 59 and State. Shots fired at the police and by the police!"

While police closed off roads and a handful of detectives arrived on scene, a woman and her teenage son tried to get a view of the alley where it happened.

The 38-year-old woman was driving home on State after finishing a shift doing janitorial work at the Field Museum when she saw hordes of squad cars racing south down the street.

The alley is a known spot where people hang out and sometimes partake in illicit activities, said the woman, who did not want to be identified.

Advertisement

She feared that someone she knew who frequents the spot might have been hurt. She tried calling and texting the man, but he didn't respond.

Daywatch Weekdays Start each day with Chicago Tribune editors' top story picks, delivered to your inbox. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

She let out a sigh as she leaned on a chain-link fence on the outer edge of the crime scene, a white iPhone ear bud dangling from her face.

"You in the hood. Hood things happen," she explained. "To make a long story short, activities going on in that alley. They may be selling drugs. But they are low-key with it."

A man watching police investigate said he heard about 20 shots while he was working nearby as a night watchman for a recycling yard in the 5800 block of South State.

"I'd been on (the phone) for like the last two or three hours and then just all of a sudden … I hear about 20 shots right in a row," said the man, 69, who gave a first name of Ed. "And I just stepped away from the door … but you hear it every other night."

The Independent Police Review Authority is investigating the shooting. Spokeswoman Mia Sissac did not have an immediate comment.

Advertisement

The officers involved will be restricted to routine administrative duties for 30 days pending the outcome of the investigation.

Chicago Tribune staff photographer Armando Sanchez contributed.