The family of a "friendly giant" killed in a struggle with cops and staff at a Staten Island psychiatric hospital has hired Johnnie Cochran's law firm to sue the city and hospital for $100 million. Alfred Nelson, 36, was taken to the emergency room of Bayley Seton Hospital, where police said the 6-foot-2, 275-pound man became violent and had to be subdued with pepper spray, medication and physical force on Oct. 30. Nelson, who battled paranoid schizophrenia for 15 years, was pinned by a dozen people, including several cops, and injected with medication about 4:20 p.

m. He was pronounced dead an hour later. The city medical examiner ruled Nelson's death a homicide by asphyxia that aggravated a heart condition. A grand jury heard testimony from 30 witnesses in the case, but declined to issue any indictments this month. It's a 'travesty' "Here you have a man who is mentally ill, who is a patient in a mental hospital, who is pleading for his life," said lawyer Derek Sells of The Cochran Firm. "They don't get off him and he gets killed and nobody is charged with the homicide. That's a travesty.

Advertisement

" Nelson's brother Maurice Nelson, 32, said trained hospital staff should not have had to call cops to deal with the situation. "What probably scared the officers [is that] my brother was big," said Nelson. "He was a friendly giant. All he wanted was a good meal and to have his packet of cigarettes.

" Monica Brown, a spokeswoman for Staten Island District Attorney William Murphy, declined to comment on the grand jury testimony, but said the investigation was "very, very thorough.

Advertisement

" The family is seeking $50 million in damages from the city; Bayley Seton Hospital; St. Vincent's Catholic Medical Centers, which runs Bayley Seton, and hospital security firm Burns Security. They also want $50 million in punitive damages from all parties except the city, Sells said. A spokesman for the hospitals declined to comment. Police referred questions to the city's Law Department, which did not respond to a request for comment.