Christopher Guinn

christopher.guinn@theledger.com

WINTER HAVEN — The suspect is dead and the answer may never be known, but Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said the circumstances of the gun battle near Lake Wales on Monday evening suggests the dead man had murder, not evasion, on his mind.

Judd provided more details during a Tuesday morning news conference of the shooting in which Deputy Clifford Wofford reported that Quentin Case, a 34-year-old Winter Haven man, drew and fired on him near the rural intersection of Glen Saint Mary Road and Kimbrel Road.

According to Judd, Wofford was enforcing speeds along State Road 60 near Lake Wales about 6:30 p.m. Monday when Case blasted by him at 112 mph on a high-powered sport motorcycle.

Wofford turned on his patrol vehicle's flashing lights to stop traffic and turn around, but did not initiate a high-speed pursuit of the motorcycle.

Case hit the brakes and turned south onto Golden Bough Road. Wofford turned off his vehicle's flashing lights and followed Case. When he turned the corner from Kimbrel Road to Glen Saint Mary Road, the bike was on its side in the sand alongside the road and Case was moving to flank Wofford as he got out of the patrol vehicle.

Case was ordered to stop. He responded by lifting his shirt and drawing a handgun from a holster, Judd said. Wofford pulled his weapon, but Case got off the first shot.

The two exchanged fire, and evidence suggests Case was hit in this first volley, Judd said.

Case retreated into the grove to the west. Wofford, expecting Case to try to flee through the grove, moved north to the intersection of the road and took cover behind a garbage can where he would have sight lines down both roads.

Case then emerged from the grove near where he entered and got into the police cruiser. At this point Case was bleeding profusely, based on the amount of blood pooled in the floor of the car. The patrol vehicle is equipped with a lockout device, and he was unable to escape with it.

Case eventually gave up trying to drive away with the cruiser, Judd said, and ran to his motorcycle. He lifted the 380-pound motorcycle upright and made it about 50 yards down the road before falling to the side.

By that time, a second deputy, Clayton Coquyt, arrived on scene and deployed a bulletproof shield.

Wofford had fired 42 rounds from his handgun and was running low on ammunition, Judd said. He grabbed his rifle from the trunk of the shot-up cruiser.

The two deputies approached Case, who was lying on the ground alongside his motorcycle, and issued him orders.

At some point during this exchange, the motorcycle caught fire. Case had put the key into the fuel tank and had a lighter, Judd said.

Case, bleeding and injured, continued to raise and lower his arm, Judd said. As the deputies approached, Case raised the handgun and the deputies ended his life, then extinguished the flames.

An autopsy is ongoing. The deputies shot Case at least 13 times, Judd said. Wofford fired 42 rounds from his handgun and eight from his rifle. Coquyt fired two rounds from his handgun during the incident.

Case had fired between four and seven times, Judd said. Crime-scene investigators have not been able to find evidence Case had other magazines with him.

It is not known whether Case was under the influence of any illicit substances at the time of the gun battle, but his resiliency and ability to lift the heavy sport motorcycle from its side after being shot suggests he was, Judd said.

"The entire thing was bizarre," Judd said. Had Case just kept barreling forward, deputies would not have pursued, and if they did, they wouldn't be able to catch him on the sport motorcycle.

Judd said he thinks Case was setting up to get the jump on the deputy: There is no evidence suggesting that Case crashed the bike.

"In my mind there is no doubt he led us to a firefight," Judd said.

Investigators interviewing Case's family afterward said he vowed not to return to prison.

Case had been arrested 18 times since 2000, including for violence and drug violation, Judd said. He had a warrant out for his arrest for violating parole.

"We knew he's dangerous and he's violent and he proved this last night," Judd said.

Christopher Guinn can be reached at Christopher.Guinn@theledger.com or 863-802-7592. Follow him on Twitter @CGuinnNews.

Related story: