By Tony Hyatt

(LOUISVILLE, April 23rd, 2003, 5 p.m.) -- The shooting of James Taylor last December focused a great deal of attention on the old Louisville Police Department and its use of force. Before that shooting, the Commonwealth Attorney was ready to investigate two separate shootings last year. No criminal charges will be filed in either of those cases.

"Police were justified," says Jefferson Commonwealth Attorney David Stengel.

Stengel was referring to the shooting death of 42-year-old Marshall Marbly on August 22 by Officers James Kaufling and Jefferson Atkins of the former Louisville Police Department. Marbly was shot by officers when he produced what was later found to be an air rifle.

"He had already been hit by pepper balls and OC spray, every sort of non-lethal force," Stengel told WAVE3 News. "In fact, they were discussing using a fire hose to get him out of the car."

On October 30th last year, 32-year-old Jason Cravens was outside his apartment on Lodoma Way carrying a rifle. When county police officers ordered him to drop his weapon, he went inside his apartment. Officer Clayton Patton fired one shot at Cravens and a standoff ensued.

When Cravens finally came out, he had been shot in the stomach. He was taken to University Hospital but died later.

"In both cases, you had two people who had a history of mental illness," Stengel said. "They produced weapons while they were being held or confronted by police."

All three officers are currently on the new merged metro police force.

"The fact that any potential criminal matter has been resolved by the Commonwealth Attorney's decision not to convene a grand jury in either case means we can now get the ball fully rolling with our professional standards unit investigation," says Metro Police spokeswoman Helene Kramer.

Kramer says it is standard procedure to review officers' conduct in every shooting investigation.

Meanwhile, there is still no word on how the internal investigation into the actions of Officer Michael O'Neil and Brian Luckett, both of whom were cleared of criminal charges by the Commonwealth's Attorney earlier this year in connection with the James Taylor shooting. It's believed Chief White will have his review wrapped up shortly after the Derby.

Online Reporter: Tony Hyatt