Dan Scanlan

The weekend’s second deputy-involved shooting in Nassau County occurred only two days after a 51-year-old Yulee man was shot and killed by a deputy following a traffic incident in Fernandina Beach in which the driver tried to ram another car, according to the Sheriff’s Office.

The second incident occurred just before 10 p.m. Sunday in front of a home in the 5000 block Bea Road southeast of Callahan. It left a 27-year-old man dead, Sheriff Bill Leeper said.

Deputies went to Bea Road after multiple reports of shots fired and screaming coming from a home there, Leeper said.

“During one of the calls to 911, gunshots could be heard in the background,” Leeper said.

Deputies arrived just after 9:45 p.m., and that’s when a man pointed a gun at one of them, identified as Deputy James Ballard.

“The deputy fired at the subject to protect himself,” Leeper said. “The result was a fatal gunshot wound to the subject.”

The Sheriff’s Office has identified the dead man as Jeremy Austin Lindsey of that home on Bea Road, just west of Lem Turner Road. Sheriff’s Office deputies were called to the home twice in February for reports of shots fired, Lueders said.

Ballard was hired by the Sheriff’s Office Feb. 29, 2016, and has no incidents on his record, Lueders said.

The department also released the identities of the Friday afternoon shooting victim and deputy.

Edward Everett Courtenay of Pirates Point in Yulee was shot and killed shortly after 4 p.m. Friday off Florida 200, according to Undersheriff George Lueders. The deputy involved in the shooting has been identified as Brandon Schmidt, who was hired in March 2012 after coming to the department nine months earlier as a reserve officer.

Friday afternoon’s incident began when a car was hit from behind by Courtenay’s vehicle while it was slowing down with traffic on the Intracoastal Waterway Bridge in Fernandina Beach, Sheriff Bill Leeper said. Courtenay drove west down Florida 200 toward O’Neil Scott Road, initially pursued by the crash victim, the sheriff said.

Courtenay’s vehicle turned right on O’Neil Scott Road, a dead end that turns into a dirt path, turning into a private home’s yard and passing through a gate, Leeper said. The victim’s car followed, and was rammed by Courtenay a second time, just before Schmidt got to the scene, Leeper said.

Before Courtenay’s vehicle could hit the victim’s car again, the deputy opened fire and hit him, and he died on scene, Leeper said.

No one answered telephone calls to Courtenay’s home.

Lueders said Schmidt has no prior incidents on his record. Schmidt first served as a school resource officer in the county, then was moved to patrol May 19, 2014, Lueders said.

Nassau County court records don’t show any felonies for Courtenay, but he had a December 2016 citation of driving with a suspended license and a March 2016 citation for driving the wrong way on a one-way street. No criminal history in Nassau County shows up for Lindsey.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating both shootings, as per Sheriff’s Office policy.

These are the first two deputy-involved shootings of the year in Nassau. Times-Union records show none in 2016 and two in 2015 that resulted in suspects being wounded.

Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549