A 66-year-old man found fatally wounded at his Campo home Sunday was killed by a deputy with a shotgun, sheriff’s officials said after reviewing autopsy results Monday.

Investigators hadn’t known until the autopsy if Bruce Dawley’s fatal injury was self inflicted or the result of the deputy’s shot to his torso.

Sheriff’s officials said Dawley had called 911 and told a dispatcher he was suicidal and had a gun Sunday morning.

Advertisement

Deputies arriving at the man’s home on Gladiola Drive near Vine Drive heard at least one gunshot inside the home. Dawley then came out of his home carrying a gun and fired at least one round at deputies, said sheriff’s homicide Lt. Kenn Nelson.

A deputy returned fire and Dawley retreated back into his home, Nelson said.

The sheriff’s SWAT team was called and subsequently surrounded the residence. Deputies went inside about 1 p.m. and found the man dead.

Nelson said he didn’t know if the three responding deputies were familiar with Dawley or had had recent contact with him.

Nelson said investigators will be talking to Dawley’s friends, family and neighbors to see if there was “any other history that we need to know about that may have played some part or had some impact in what happened out there.”

Nelson said the man’s handgun and several other weapons were found inside the home.

The deputy involved in the shooting will be placed on paid leave for several days. As is standard procedure, an investigative report of the shooting will be presented to the District Attorney, who will determine if the use-of-force was justified, and to the FBI’s civil rights division for review, Nelson said.

The shooting was the fourth involving sheriff’s deputies in the last 3 ½ weeks.

On May 10, deputies fatally shot a man who drove at two deputies after a chase in Barona. On May 15, deputies killed a homeless man after he stabbed a restaurant manager in the head. Then, on May 24, a machete-wielding man was shot while advancing toward deputies.

karen.kucher@sduniontribune.com