Police are searching for a man who apparently stole guns from both a dying suspect and an injured off-duty Detroit police officer after a robbery-turned-shoot-out Sunday night on the city's east side, police said.

The 27-year-old officer, who was shot in the mid-torso and possibly the foot, is hospitalized in critical condition. At about 11 p.m., he was leaving Motor City Liquor at Gratiot and Chene when a man ran toward him with a gun extended.

"Looking at the (surveillance) video, (the officer) appropriately responded when faced with an immediate threat to his life," Detroit Police Chief James Craig said in a Facebook Live video early this morning.

The ensuing shoot-out left the officer and suspect both on the ground of the parking lot. A short time later, a man pulled up in a black sedan and, over about 7-8 minutes, touched the suspect before apparently taking the guns from both the suspect and officer.

"The fact that this individual, instead of trying to render aid, basically approached the down suspect -- my sense is that there is a relationship between the suspect who is down and this person," Craig said.

This is the ninth police officer to be shot or killed in Detroit since September.

"Enough is enough," Craig said. "It has to stop."

Related:

8 Detroit officers have been shot or killed in the past 8 months

Detroit police officer is fighting for his life

The injured officer has been with the Detroit Police Department for a year, and is six months out of the academy, Craig said. He had been making a purchase at the party store when the suspect "just started running across the parking lot," Craig said.

He said the man who later picked up the guns appears to be a black man, 5-foot-9 to 5-foot-11, wearing "sporting clothes." He was "very deliberate" and "didn't try to leave the scene hurriedly," Craig said.

The surveillance video was too grainy to make out the license plate on the suspect's black sedan, he said. Another vehicle, which appears to be a 2008-09 silver or white Dodge Durango, arrived at the scene, the driver saw the suspect was down and "stayed for a while and left," Craig said.

Police continue to investigate and search for people involved.

"We have an officer who is being treated, and certainly, we're asking for the public's thoughts and prayers that he recovers from the injuries," Craig said.

Contact Robert Allen on Twitter @rallenMI or rallen@freepress.com.