GREEN BAY, Wis. - The family of a man fatally shot by Green Bay police has hired a consultant to look into the death of the 25-year-old.

Benjamin James Sonnenberg was shot and killed April 21. Police said he had started to run toward a local night club and appeared to be drawing a weapon when he was shot by four officers who had pulled over a car he was driving.

John Peterson, who represents the Sonnenberg family and an injured bystander, said the family wonders whether police violated constitutional rights and was concerned about civil liability.

An internal investigation by Green Bay police was sent to Brown County District Attorney John Zakowski for review on May 9. The report has yet to be released to the public. Zakowski could decide whether or not to file criminal charges.

Peterson said the family has hired Lou Reiter, a former deputy chief of police in Los Angeles who is now a consultant, to look into the matter.

He said it was not unusual for families and others to seek outside evaluations of police actions and his law firm in Howard has its own investigator who will interview witnesses.

He said he was concerned that Sonnenberg, who was unarmed, could be shot in front of a crowded bar. Cesar Grijalva-Ortiz, 31, a bouncer at the nightclub, was hit by one of the bullets. He was treated at a hospital and released.

"It's a miracle that only one other person was injured," he said.

Tom Parins, a lawyer representing the police officers union, said the four officers acted properly. They had been placed on administrative duties pending a review, according to police procedure.

He said the four officers arrived to the scene in three squad cars and came to the same conclusion during the situation.

"All four saw the same thing and took the same action," he said.

Police have said Sonnenberg got out of his car after he was stopped. He refused initial commands from the officers, who thought he was reaching for a weapon, and then started to run toward the entrance of the bar, police said.

The four officers - Eric Allen, Gary Richgels, Matthew Cain and Scott Salzmann - fired their guns and hit Sonnenberg about 10 times.