SHARE

By of the

The Milwaukee County Board on Thursday approved a $25,000 lawsuit settlement to the family of a man killed by Milwaukee police in 2006 after his discharge from the Mental Health Complex.

Larry Ellis was charging at a police officer while wielding a knife when he was shot to death on Oct. 26, 2006, in what's been called "suicide by cop." The 25-year-old Ellis, who was diagnosed as schizophrenic, had been released from the complex about three weeks earlier. He also had previous stays at the county's psychiatric hospital and prior suicide threats.

Ellis' mother and sister - Beryldene Williams and Jameila Ellis - sued the city and county in federal court, claiming a civil rights violation over the shooting and the quality of care Larry Ellis had at the complex.

The claim against the city and the officer who shot Ellis was dismissed last year.

The full County Board approved the settlement unanimously, though two supervisors had some qualms.

Supervisor Joe Sanfelippo said he feared the settlement would encourage others to sue the county if they were unhappy with their treatment at the Mental Health Complex.

Supervisor Patricia Jursik said the Ellis case highlighted the bind the county might find itself in over patient discharges. State law requires the county to treat mental health patients in the least restrictive environment, thus encouraging discharge. But inappropriate discharges could lead to lawsuits.

Roy Williams, an assistant county corporation counsel, said the complex "had no legal reason to hold" Ellis the last time he was there.

In other moves Thursday the board:

• Authorized, on a 19-0 vote, hiring outside lawyers to help in potential lawsuits against contractors who built O'Donnell Park garage. The county is considering suing contractors to help cover losses linked to the June 24 collapse of a 13 1/2 -ton concrete slab from the garage, which killed 15-year-old Jared Kellner and injured two others.

A $6.6 million repair job is scheduled for next year, and the county is losing more than $100,000 a month in parking revenue because the O'Donnell structure has been closed since the accident.

• Approved, 18-1, an ordinance imposing pension contributions for non-union county employees starting at 2% of salary and increasing to 4% of pay by the end of next year.

For elected officials, including the 19 county supervisors, the contribution stays at 2%. Elected officials weren't included in the higher pension contribution rate because they won't get the same 2% pay raise in 2011 that other non-union workers will. The county is seeking union approval for similar pension contributions.

• Unanimously approved naming a circular architectural feature in McKinley Park for Chuck Ward, a county parks official who died last month. A video tribute to Ward is on the county Parks and Recreation Department website, www.countyparks.com.