$300,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Bernadine McWhorter

Named in lawsuit: Officer Lucas Peterson, officer Mark Johnson and city of Minneapolis

Incident: Nov. 1, 2002. Christopher Burns, McWhorter’s fiancée, died when Peterson reportedly used a neck hold twice after handcuffing Burns.

$225,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to James Keten

Named in lawsuit: Sgts. Steven Mosey, Mark Osland and Kendal Chambers, and officers Aaron Morrison, Chad Fuchs, Steven Lynch, Todd Babekuhl, Lucas Peterson, Scott Creighton, Chris Garbisch, Nick Rowe, Mark Kaspszak, Joshua Rick, Peter Rud, George Peltz and Mark Beaupre, in their individual and official capacities, and the city of Minneapolis

Incident: April 13, 2011. Officers shot James Keten’s dogs and allegedly beat Keten. Specific claims against Peterson are unknown based on the complaint.

$65,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Nancy Johnson

Named in lawsuit: Officers Mark Kaspszak, Lucas Peterson

Incident: Aug. 4, 2006. Peterson wrote in a police report that Nancy Johnson jumped on an officer’s back as he fought with her partner, Derrick Simmons. A surveillance camera showed Johnson never jumped on any officer’s back.

$35,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Derrick Simmons

Named in Commission on Civil Rights claim: Officers Mark Kaspszak, Lucas Peterson

Incident: Aug. 4, 2006. Settled in conjunction with the Nancy Johnson case. Simmons claimed he was falsely arrested and discriminated against because he was black. Simmons did not file a federal lawsuit.

More than $20,000

Payout: Private insurance company to Michael Hugh Kelly

Named in lawsuit: City of St. Paul, city of Minneapolis, officer Ernster, officer Lucas Peterson, officers A-J

Incident: Sept. 4, 2008. Protesters at the Republican National Convention reportedly covered the eyes of Peterson’s horse with a banner. Peterson shot a 40-millimeter “marking round” at Kelly’s midsection. Kelly’s injury was photographed by several media organizations, and he sued for excessive force.

$15,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Symone Taylor

Named in lawsuit: Officers Thomas Schmid, Sherry Appledorn, Lucas Peterson, Aaron Morris, Kurt Mencel, Gary Nelson; Chief Tim Dolan

Incident: Feb. 3, 2006. Taylor alleged Peterson “slammed” her head into the side of the Crown Theater building, “without warning or provocation.” The claim also alleged “both Officer Mencel and Officer Peterson separately reported that Taylor was on each of their backs during the assault.”

$15,000

Payout: League of Minnesota Cities Insurance Trust to Bill John Dumas

Named in lawsuit: Officers Lucas Peterson, Lawrence Loonsfoot, Mike Todd Nimlos, Raymond Jeffery Jindra, Javier Francisco Porras, Terry J. Bean, Tim Dolan, city of Minneapolis

Incident: July 22, 2008. According the complaint, the officers kicked and struck Dumas while lying face down on the floor and refused medical attention for Dumas. Specific allegations against Peterson are unknown.

$13,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Carolyn Rose Thomas

Named in lawsuit: Officers Chad Fuchs, Lucas Peterson

Incident: May 4, 2002. Thomas alleged Peterson pushed his index finger into her right cheek and poked her right eye after she was about to walk out of a Rainbow Foods. The complaint says a manager asked the officers to tell her to get out of the store.

$7,500

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Donald Williams

Named in lawsuit: Officers Lucas Peterson, Geoffrey Toscano, Chief William McManus

Incident: May 20, 2002. After Williams was resisting arrest, Peterson attempted to pry Williams’ arms by striking him with his flashlight and then kicked and slapped him, the complaint says.

$7,500

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Richard Trammell Williams

Officers/entities named in lawsuit: Officers Andrew Stender, Nicholas Torborg, Lucas Peterson, Mark Beaupre, Scott Creighton, Todd Babekuhl, Sgts. David Garman, Steven Mosey

Incident: Dec. 20, 2004. Williams was already handcuffed following a search of his residence for illegal drugs, according to the complaint. The officers jumped on Williams as they “exited their vehicles and threw him into a raid van where he was ‘hogtied.’ ” The officers then beat Williams, “some using gloves, some with bare hands,” and also gouged Williams’ eyes, according to the complaint. Specific allegations against Peterson are unknown.

$2,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Tiffany Crowder

Officers/entities named in lawsuit: David Menter, Daniel Low, James Lynch, David Pleoger, Todd Sauvageau, Gene Suker, Lawrence Loonsfoot, David Garman, Mike Nimlos, Lucas Peterson, city of Minneapolis and Minneapolis Public Housing Authority

Incident: Feb. 19, 2009. Crowder alleges officers entered her home at night without announcing themselves, despite having a warrant authorizing a daytime announced entry. Her 12-year-old daughter was home alone at the time and was struck by the front door, leaving her with “a permanent scar near her eye.” Crowder alleges the officers removed an Xbox 360, $2,200 in cash and $3,000 in jewelry. Specific allegations against Peterson are unknown.

$1,000

Payout: City of Minneapolis to Lamont Johnson

Officers/entities named in lawsuit: Lucas Peterson, officer Lehner, officer Steberg, Jane Doe, Richard Doe, John Doe, Mary Roe, Robert Olson, city of Minneapolis, Patrick McMahon

Incident: April 17, 2002. After witnessing an alleged narcotics transaction, Peterson chased Johnson and kicked him to knock Johnson to the ground. Johnson alleges his hand was stepped on when he was already compliant and that he was maced twice after being placed in handcuffs.

Pending

Claimant: William Walker

Officers/entities named in lawsuit: Lucas Peterson, Ricardo Muro, Tim Dolan, city of Minneapolis

Incident: May 19, 2011. Walker alleges the officers kicked and struck him on the back of his head. While he was lying face down on the floor, the officers “stomped” their feet on Walker’s head, which caused him to lose consciousness, the complaint alleges. Specific allegation against Peterson are unknown.

Sources: Court records, attorney Peter K. Nickitas, attorney Stephen L. Smith, city of Minneapolis