The gunman killed in a Wednesday shootout in Dundalk had an open warrant in Pennsylvania and was prohibited from possessing firearms because of an armed robbery conviction, Baltimore County police said Thursday.

Police identified the gunman Thursday as 35-year-old Blaine Robert Erb, of no fixed address. Erb was killed by police during the incident, which also left a bystander wounded and a police officer in serious condition.

Authorities identified the wounded officer as Officer First Class Slocum, a 13-year veteran of the county police. She was shot twice in the lower body and remains in serious condition at Maryland Shock Trauma Center. Baltimore County police do not publicly release the full names of officers in these cases, citing an agreement with the police union.

Advertisement

Baltimore County Police officer was wounded and a suspect killed in a shooting in Dundalk Wednesday afternoon, police said. (Lloyd Fox/Baltimore Sun) (Baltimore Sun)

The bystander, a 21-year-old Baltimore woman, suffered a gunshot wound and is expected to survive, police said. Her name also was not released, and police had not determined who shot her.

Officers responded to the 3400 block of Dundalk Ave. near Avon Beach Road at 2:49 p.m. Wednesday for a report of an armed robbery in progress, police said. At the scene they learned a man — later identified as Erb — ran onto a nearby No. 10 Maryland Transit Administration bus. Police said Erb had robbed two people at gunpoint before the shootout began.

Advertisement

When officers stopped the bus near the Logan Village Shopping Center about a block away and confronted Erb, he opened fire on police, they said. The incident culminated in a shootout that left Erb dead on a nearby lawn. The incident was captured on video and posted to Facebook.

A 2003 booking photo of Blaine Robert Erb, the 35-year-old suspect involved in Wednesday’s police-involved shooting in Dundalk. Erb was killed in the shooting. An officer and a bystander were wounded. (Courtesy Baltimore County Police / Baltimore Sun)

Police said Thursday that four officers had fired their weapons at Erb. The officers, whose names have not been released, were placed on routine administrative leave. At least one officer was wearing a body camera, police said, but all visual and audio recordings will not yet be released because they are part of the investigation.

Investigators found two .40-caliber handguns next to Erb's body, as well as gun magazines and ammunition. Police said they are looking into where Erb obtained the firearms.

Police said Erb had a "lengthy criminal history in Maryland and neighboring states." His previous charges have included robbery, weapon violations, assault and theft.

There was also a bench warrant for Erb in York County, Pa., for failure to appear on DUI charges, county police spokeswoman Officer Jennifer Peach said.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 3 Police are at the scene of a shooting in Dundalk. A police officer was wounded and the suspect was killed. (Lloyd Fox, Baltimore Sun)

Breaking News Alerts As it happens Be informed of breaking news as it happens and notified about other don't-miss content with our free news alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Online court records indicate Erb pleaded guilty in 2012 in Anne Arundel County to a charge of possessing contraband in jail. He pleaded guilty in 2011 in Somerset County to second-degree assault.

In Baltimore County in 2003, Erb pleaded guilty to attempted robbery, court records show. In that case prosecutors dropped other charges, including armed robbery.

Detectives have interviewed five people who were on the bus when the shootout began, but are trying to determine if there were more, police said.

Advertisement

Relatives for Erb could not be reached for comment.

Baltimore Sun reporter Alison Knezevich contributed to this article.

mbricesaddler@baltsun.com

@TheArtist_MBS