Dauphin County Coroner Graham Hetrick is calling the death of a man killed in a car crash in Harrisburg this morning a homicide.

Akeem Cornelius, 18, of Harrisburg, died when the car he was riding in was hit by a car fleeing police

just after midnight. Both drivers were hospitalized.

Harrisburg City police said the driver of the car being pursued was Isaac Roberts, 25, of the 2600 block of North 6th Street. He is under police guard in a hospital, charged with carrying a firearm without a license, being a former convict who was not to possess a firearm, possession of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia. He has not been charged with homicide. He will be arraigned following his release from the hospital.

Hetrick said Cornelius died from traumatic head and neck injuries. The driver of the car he was riding in had to be cut from the wreckage. Police have not released that driver's name or details on his condition.

Police said the high-speed crash happened near Seventh and Maclay streets in Harrisburg. The crash followed a police pursuit that began after an officer on patrol near the 1200 block of Berryhill street heard gunshots.Police said the officer responding to the gunshots saw a vehicle leaving the area and began following it. The driver of the car, Roberts, drove north through Harrisburg, refusing to stop, police said. In the midtown area, Roberts turned off the lights of his car and sped away, police said. Roberts had a loaded handgun and a few bags of marijuana with him, police said.

Anyone with information may contact Sgt. Clifford Karlsen of the Harrisburg police at 717-255-3123 or ckarlsen@cityofhbg.com.

Cornelius' death is the sixth homicide in the city of Harrisburg in the past four weeks and the third in as many days. Saturday afternoon, Sandra Stewart, 26, and her brother, Charles Stewart, 43, were shot and killed by Supreme Abdul Shabazz, of Susquehanna Township, who later killed himself.

Last week, in her State of the City Address, Harrisburg Mayor Linda D. Thompson touted her administration's “renewed emphasis on public safety,” saying the murder rate in the city was down by more than two-thirds in the first quarter of 2010.

But after going without a homicide for all of January and February and the first 24 days of March, the death toll in the city this year equals the pace set last year at this time. Seventeen people were homicide victims in Harrisburg last year, the deadliest year in the city since 1990.