McCANDLESS, Pa.,None — A Hampton Township police officer fatally shot a suspect after police responded to a report that someone fired a shot through a pizza shop window in McCandless.

Police confirmed Vincent Barnes, 41, of Pittsburgh's North Side, was dead after being shot shortly before 4 a.m. Thursday.

Police said Barnes was involved in argument at Bellisario's Restaurant along Duncan Avenue. Witnesses told police they heard the suspect say, "I'm not going back to jail," during the argument.

The bar's manager told Channel 11 that Barnes came back after the intial argument, pointed a gun at the other man and fired a shot at him, but missed.

"I heard a boom. It was loud. Ears were ringing," said Mike Ross.

Ross said Barnes was kicked out of the bar. When police arrived, Ross said Barnes flashed his gun at officers and took off running.

Investigators said a state police helicopter was used to help search for the suspect in a wooded area near the restaurant. As police were about to call the search off, a man matching the suspect's description walked out of the woods as a patrol car drove by.

Authorities said Barnes fired shots at the Hampton officer, who returned fire, killing him.

Police said the officer who shot Barnes is a 34-year veteran. He has been placed on administrative leave while the investigation continues.

"He's a rather cool, calm and collected individual, and he happens to be our firearms instructor," said Hampton Township Police Chief Dan Connolly.

"If you point a gun on an officer, you're going to get shot, you know," said Allegheny County Police Superintendent Charles Moffatt. "And then when you take that one step further, this guy actually firing a shot at the officer, you're out in an area that's a wooded area. There's not a lot of cover to get around except the car door, and if you shoot at an officer, you're taking your life in your own hands."

Barnes was wanted on five warrants, police said.

Duncan Avenue was closed at Mount Royal Boulevard during the investigation.

• E-Mail Newsletter: Get The Latest News Sent To Your E-Mail! • Mobile: Get WPXI Headlines On Your Phone, iPhone, More • RSS: Add Us To Your Page!

WPXI