Staff Writer

Portsmouth Herald

Ten from Hampton to attend Boy Scout National Jamboree

HAMPTON — Nine Boy Scouts and one adult leader from the Hampton area will be traveling to Fort AP Hill in Virginia this month for the 2010 Boy Scout National Jamboree.

The Hampton Scouts will be part of a contingent from New Hampshire numbering approximately 100 Scouts and nine adult leaders.

The Scouts from Troop 177 that will be going are Thomas Dumont, John Wilusz, Connor McNamara, Ryan Lamers, Jamie Argue, James Desrosiers and leader Jim Desrosiers.

Troop 377 will be represented by Steven Hurley, Hunter Owen, and Calvin Lord.

In total, approximately 45,000 Scouts, leaders, and staff from all 50 states will attend the Jamboree celebrating 100 years of Boy Scouting in the United States.

In addition to the 10 days of camping at the Jamboree, the New Hampshire contingent of Scouts will spend a day in Washington, D.C., on the way to the Jamboree, and spend a day cooling off at Six Flags on the way back.

The next National Jamboree will be held in 2013 at "The Summit" Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve in Glen Jean, W. Va., which will become the BSA's permanent home for the National Scout Jamboree as well as the organization's fourth high-adventure base.

Company selected to dispose of brush and tree limbs

ProBark of Plaistow was hired by the town two weeks ago to grind and dispose of brush and tree limbs collected during the spring storms.

Town Manager Fred Welch said the company was selected because it was the low bidder for the project, coming in at a price tag of $4,000. Welch said 75 percent of that cost will be paid for by federal funds under Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

Qualifying round for Lobster Roll Eating Challenge tonight

Another chance to secure a spot in the inaugural Lobster Roll Eating Challenge at this year's Hampton Beach Seafood Festival will be held tonight, July 13, at the 401 Tavern in Hampton.

The second of three qualifying eating rounds — in which the top three finishers in each round are automatically entered into the Sept. 11 competition — will be held at 6 p.m. at the restaurant on Route 1.

The first round took place on June 15. Joe Menchetti from Wallinford, Conn., took first place, eating 16 hot dogs. Josh Winkler from Hampton and Bob Gregory from Port Charlotte, Fla. tied for second place, eating 11 dogs, and Craig Hansen from Hampton took third with 10.

Qualifying rounds are open to those 18 years or older and applications will be taken online at www.hamptonbeachseafoodfestival.com or at the 401 Restaurant, 401 Lafayette Road, Hampton.

Entry is very limited and submitting an application does not guarantee entry into the event.

Ashworth By the Sea hosting wedding you will not forget

Joey and Maria are getting married at the Ashworth by the Sea on Hampton Beach on Sunday, July 18.

The popular Italian dinner and theater show will be performed inside the hotel's grand ballroom. The interactive production "features the zany union of two delightfully dysfunctional Italian families, with audience members playing the part of friends and family of the bride and groom."

The show, which has been playing around the country for 19 years, will kick off at 6 p.m.

Advance tickets are $49.50. Day of the show tickets are $59.95.

To purchase tickets call 603-929-7382 or e-mail kathym@ashworthhotel.com.

Tuesday, July 13 Hampton School Board— 7 p.m., in the selectmen's meeting room at Town Hall. Wednesday, July 13 Hampton Beach Precinct— 5:30 p.m., in the precinct meeting room at the beach fire station.

MEETINGS