Todd Getgen of Enola wasn’t perfect, but he had no equal as a father.

With those words, Getgen's widow, Stella, described Thursday in a Cumberland County courtroom what life for her and her son has been like since July 21, 2010, when Todd Getgen was shot to death at a rifle range in North Middleton Township.

Fighting through tears, she read a copy of a letter that her son, Ethan, then 6 years old, had placed in his father’s coffin at his funeral.

The boy, the couple’s only child, wrote about how he loved when Todd Getgen would cook him dinner and read him “silly stories” at night. How father and son dug holes in the backyard when Mom wasn’t looking.

“I loved when you took me to Home Depot instead of Toys R Us for my birthday,” the boy wrote.

Standing not far from Stella, in front of county Judge Skip Ebert, was Raymond Peake III of Hampden Township, who on Thursday pleaded no contest to second-degree murder and theft by unlawful taking.

Peake, a 66-year-old former Camp Hill prison guard, had stoicly replied “yes, your honor” and “no, your honor” to Ebert’s questions until, shortly after Stella Getgen finished her son’s letter, Peake broke down and almost collapsed. Then he was led out of the courtroom to start his sentence of life in prison without parole.

Before Peake was sentenced, county First Assistant District Attorney Jaime Keating read letters from Getgen’s sister and two brothers about how Todd, the youngest of seven children, was his high school valedictorian and had perfect attendance.

He served in the Army’s 10th Mountain Division and saved money while in the military for college. He worked two jobs to get through seven years of college to become a personal injury lawyer to “help those who were down and out who could not fight for themselves,” brother Richard Getgen wrote.

Peake was also a veteran. He served in combat in Vietnam and was nominated for the Bronze Star. In 2004, 14 years after Peake retired from a 25-year Marine Corps career as a master sergeant, he was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder.

One of Peake’s lawyers, former county Public Defender Taylor Andrews, had said in court papers he intended to call as a witness the doctor who evaluated Peake in 2004, to help try to keep Peake off death row.

“I’m not going to say it’s why somebody does something,” Andrews said of Peake’s diagnosis after the sentencing. “I’m going to say it’s why somebody is who they are. It shapes you. It shapes you in a way that something like this can happen.”

According to police reports, Peake, after his arrest, had talked of wanting to arm militias to overthrow the government.

Cumberland County District Attorney David Freed said no evidence of that ever surfaced. Prosecutors said that in the end, Peake just wanted more guns for himself.

One he decided he wanted was an AR-15 with a fancy suppressor that Getgen liked to fire at the range in North Middleton Township.

Prosecutors said Peake had no connection with Getgen. He just coveted the gun he saw Getgen firing.

“Envy is the cancer of the soul,” Keating said afterward. “It was a crime of opportunity. [Peake] saw it, he was going to take it, and he shot him enough times that he was able to steal his weapon.

“It was an American tragedy, where an American soldier was killed on American soil by a murderer, all for greed,” Keating said.

Peake’s other lawyer, Gregory Abeln, said Peake pleaded no contest because Peake claimed Getgen was killed by a mysterious truck driver named Matthew, whom Peake had known for 20 years. They never talked by phone, and Matthew just showed up every now and then, Peake said.

But Peake never produced Matthew. Andrews said Thursday’s plea was a recognition by Peake that there was enough evidence that a jury could have found him guilty.