Advertisement Police Officer Not Guilty In Son's Shooting Death Gavin Thompson, 5, Killed By Gunshot In Liberty Borough Share Copy Link Copy

A judge says a suspended suburban police officer is not guilty on all charges connected to the death of his 5-year-old son, who investigators believe accidentally shot himself with the officer's gun at home.John Thompson, of the borough of Liberty, had been charged with involuntary manslaughter, reckless endangerment and endangering the welfare of children. Allegheny County Judge Jeffrey Manning acquitted him on Wednesday morning after a nonjury trial.Defense attorney Anthony DeLuca told the judge that Thompson -- who did not testify -- is devastated financially and emotionally and would lose his livelihood if convicted of a felony."This isn't a case where you smile and celebrate. The end result of this is that he lost his son and there is no joy in that," said DeLuca.The lawyer and client hugged after Manning gave his verdict."My heart goes out to them. They're very good people, and I don't know how you ever recover from an event like this," DeLuca said.Manning told the 39-year-old Thompson that his conduct was clearly negligent, but it did not rise to the level of "recklessness or gross negligence" that's necessary to prove the manslaughter charge, and he said he would no longer prolong the process.Manning said Thompson tried to protect his son by placing the guns higher up in the closet and warning the boy to stay away."Could he have done better? Yes. Since he was trained as an officer, should he have known better? Yes," said Manning.Despite the verdict, Deputy District Attorney Mark Tranquilli said he had no regrets about taking Thompson to trial."These charges needed to be brought," Tranquilli said. "In light of the judge's decision, which was a thoughtful and well-reasoned one, we hope that this stimulates the ongoing discourse in Allegheny County and throughout the state about Second Amendment rights and the responsibilities that come with those rights."A criminal complaint filed by county police said young Gavin Thompson climbed onto a chair near his parents' bedroom closet on Nov. 26, 2010, and grabbed John Thompson's duty weapon, and the gun went off and the bullet hit the boy in the head.DeLuca told the judge that Thompson worked two police jobs so his wife could remain home with their five children, and "doesn't need any other punishment" after the boy's death. Thompson was a part-time officer in Liberty and an officer in nearby Port Vue at the time of the shooting.DeLuca said Thompson is hoping to get his job back and return to serving as a police officer.Liberty shooting-79.8475170135498240.33156237025861425926981On Monday, a county police officer testified that Thompson said he kept snacks and cakes in the closet with the guns.The officer also testified that Gavin had a problem with wanting sweets and had an interest in his father's guns. Prosecutors said that made the closet desirable to the boy.Police said Thompson was home when the shooting happened. The complaint said 911 got a call from the house, but the caller hung up and 911 got an answering machine when it called the number back, and that's when police were sent.In addition to his duty weapon, Thompson kept a 9 mm gun in the house and owned an AR-15 rifle, according to the complaint. He kept nearly 700 rounds of ammunition for the two handguns and the rifle, the complaint said.In his closing argument, DeLuca spoke about Thompson's love for his children. He said Thompson warned the kids to stay out of the closet, but "we can't always control our environment.""It's about that moment we all fear. It could happen to any of us" as parents, DeLuca said. He added that the parents have been through enough with the loss of their son. Click Like To Become A Fan Of WTAE On Facebook: