Three Richland County sheriff’s deputies were forced to open fire on a drunken man who challenged them to a gunfight from horseback, a prosecutor said Tuesday.

In a three-page summary of the investigation into 51-year-old Douglas Lisney’s death, District Attorney Andrew Sharp cleared the deputies of any wrongdoing.

“The evidence from this investigation clearly shows that the deputies were defending themselves,” Sharp said in a statement.

The summary gives the following account:

The deputies went to Lisney’s home in Akan Township on July 13 after his girlfriend called 911 and told dispatchers Lisney had been drinking all day and was shooting off guns in his yard. She also said Lisney had hit a child in the face with a fly swatter.

When the deputies arrived, Lisney, dressed in Western gear, rode up on a horse and showed them a gun. He rode down his driveway, returned and told them he had six loaded guns, then rode off again.

The deputies decided to try to use a stun gun on Lisney. Lisney rode toward them again with a gun in each hand and announced, “We’re going to settle this” or “We’re going to have a shootout,” and told a deputy to draw his weapon.

He pointed one of his guns at a deputy, who fled behind a tree and fired the stun gun at Lisney but missed.

Lisney then approached another deputy and pointed his gun at him. That deputy fired once at Lisney, who slumped over and rode away.

Another deputy saw Lisney ride past him and raise one of his guns. The deputy told him to drop it, but Lisney pointed the gun at him. The deputy fired three times at Lisney.

Lisney rode away but fell off the horse and died before medical help arrived. An autopsy showed Lisney was shot once in the chest and once in the back.

The state Division of Criminal Investigation reviewed the case for Sharp. The summary does not name the deputies.

The mother of Lisney’s girlfriend told investigators she heard the deputies tell Lisney to drop his weapons and Lisney reply, “Bring it on. Bring it on,” according to the summary, which does not name the woman or her daughter.

Lisney’s blood-alcohol level was 0.162, more than twice the legal limit for driving, the report said.