A man suspected of robbing a Fox Point bank was shot to death in Glendale on Thursday morning during an exchange of gunfire with North Shore police, authorities said.

No information on the man's identity was released, but a 20-year-old Milwaukee woman believed to be his accomplice in the robbery was in custody late Thursday, Fox Point Police Chief Tom Czaja said.

"Something like this is out of the norm for Fox Point," Czaja said after the shooting that involved officers from his department and the River Hills Police Department.

"However, something like this can happen in any community no matter how large or how small it is."

Czaja, who could not recall a previous shooting involving officers from his department, said Fox Point officers fired their weapons during the exchange, but he did not know if their shots were lethal.

Fox Point police Sgt. Amy Resnick said late Thursday that any officers involved in shootings would be placed on administrative leave while the incidents are under investigation.

According to Czaja, the man entered the Cornerstone Community Bank, 8607 N. Port Washington Road, shortly before 10 a.m. while the woman, who was driving the getaway vehicle, waited outside.

The man did not display a weapon inside the bank, but demanded money and fled with an undisclosed amount of cash, Czaja said.

Glendale police officer Joel Dhein, whose department is investigating the shooting, said it had not been determined which officers fired the fatal shots and that the shooting was still under investigation.

According to Dhein, Fox Point police officers spotted the suspects' car heading south shortly after the bank was robbed. The officers followed the car and pulled it over minutes later at the intersection of N. Port Washington and Good Hope roads.

River Hills police officers, who communicate on the same radio frequency as Fox Point police, heard the vehicle stop in progress and went to the scene to back up the other officers, Dhein said.

After the car was stopped, the male suspect pulled out a gun and opened fire on the officers, who returned the fire, killing the man, he said.

No further information was available on the shooting, Dhein said, but Czaja said a handgun was recovered from the getaway car.

After the shooting, authorities blocked the intersection of Port Washington and Good Hope until about 4 p.m., Dhein said.

Several bystanders said that they saw the shootout at the heavily traveled intersection. Dhein said the situation could have endangered any of them.

"We're lucky no innocent people were injured," he said.

Shari Beispiel, 65, had just finished her breakfast when she heard the gunfire near her home.

"It scared the heck out of me," said Beispiel, who walked to her backyard and heard officers confronting the suspects.

"I could hear the officers yelling at the guy, 'Put your gun down,' " Beispiel said. "Then I saw the man on the ground and his shirt was off."

Law enforcement officers from the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Department and the Glendale, Fox Point, River Hills and Bayside police departments went to the scene of the shooting.

Dhein said the I-43 exit at Good Hope Road was blocked, and Port Washington Road was blocked from W. Green Tree Road to W. Mall Road.

District Attorney John Chisholm said at the scene that his office would review the shooting, as it does with all police shootings.