JUNEAU - A Watertown man who killed himself as police approached his apartment Friday night had planned to steal a car and kill the owner, then sell the car, according to a friend who was charged Monday with assisting in that crime. He did everything but make the sale.

Zachary Zaborek, 20, was charged in Dodge County Circuit Court with aiding a felon, the person he told police was his best friend, Travis Zoellick.

Zoellick, who died Saturday morning from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, is suspected of killing Haroon Khan, 31, of Milwaukee, who had been missing since Wednesday. Khan was in the process of selling his 2006 Mitsubishi, and had not returned after saying he was going to meet a prospective buyer.

In the complaint against Zaborek, he told Milwaukee detectives Zoellick had shared a plan Sept. 28 to rob someone who may be selling a Mitsubishi Evolution, or EVO. Zaborek said that Zoellick detailed a plan of using a gun to kill the car owner, and that Zoellick had asked for Zaborek's help in implementing the plan.

Zaborek said he refused to go along with the plan and told Zoellick not to "kill the guy," but he did not tell police of the plan.

On Oct. 1, the day Khan disappeared, Zaborek said he got a call from Zoellick telling him to come and take a look at the EVO vehicle he had acquired. After taking the car for a brief spin and returning it to a unit in one of three long storage sheds owned by his father, Zoellick told Zaborek "he stabbed some guy." He showed him the knife he used, a cell phone and a smashed up GPS system taken from the car.

According to the account provided by Zaborek in the complaint, Zoellick told him in graphic detail how he killed Khan by repeatedly stabbing him after tying him up and putting duct tape over his eyes. Zaborek told the detectives he kept quiet about the crime because Zoellick was his best friend and because he was afraid.

Last Friday, Zoellick enlisted his best friend in an attempt to find out what police knew about the crime, dispatching Zaborek to check out the property where the car was located.

At 8:30 p.m. Friday, Zaborek said he received a call from Zoellick in which Zoellick said he "is never going to jail," and that he had a gun with him.

Shortly after 11 that night, police were at Zoellick's apartment in Watertown when he came out the door, spotted an officer, returned inside, went to an upstairs bedroom and fatally shot himself in the head, according to reports from the Watertown Police Department.

At 5:15 p.m. Saturday, police recovered a body from a shallow grave 100 yards behind a shed located on the Zoellick's property. A digital image of that body was shown to Muhammad Kahn, who identified his dead nephew, Haroon Y. Khan.

A third suspect, Tammi Lafave, 21, of Delafield, identified as Zoellick's girlfriend, remains in the Dodge County jail pending an appearance today on tentative charges of being party to a crime of first-degree homicide and kidnapping.

According to Zaborek's account, Lafave went with Zoellick to meet with Khan in Milwaukee. He said she helped tie the victim's hands, and she was also present when Zaborek was summoned to the shed to test-drive the stolen car.

According to Watertown police chief Tim Roets, Lafave witnessed her boyfriend shoot himself at the Oak Ridge Court apartment Friday night as police closed in. Zoellick's father was also in the apartment, police said.

Detectives are continuing the investigation, as additional search warrants are being issued, according to lead investigator and detective Vicki Brugger. In a statement Monday morning, Brugger asked for help from the people who may have more information about the murder or the suspects.

Anyone with information regarding the suspects or any information regarding the death is asked to contact the Dodge County Sheriff's Department at (920) 386-3726. Those who wish to remain anonymous can call the WeTip hot line at (800) 78-CRIME.

Khan, a Milwaukee native and gas station owner, left a family celebration Wednesday to meet with someone who wanted to buy his car. When he did not return, family members found his apartment door open and his wallet still there.

His family described him as "one of the nicest and loveliest persons you can think of."

Zoellick was on probation from a misdemeanor battery conviction two years ago in Jefferson County. He had also been charged in Jefferson County court Sept. 30 for using a computer message for harassment. That charge had been filed, but details were not available.