Bruce Vielmetti

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

A Milwaukee County sheriff's deputy acted lawfully when he fatally shot a motorist at Milwaukee's crowded lakefront in June 2017, the district attorney's office announced Wednesday, 17 months after the incident.

Deputy Michael Truax was standing in the median along Lincoln Memorial Drive at East Water Tower Road when Terry Wiliams, 19, veered toward him. Williams had fled from a traffic stop minutes earlier as he left the Bradford Beach parking area.

Chief Deputy District Attorney Kent Lovern concluded that Truax acted in lawful self-defense and defense of others, and therefore his use of deadly force was justified under Wisconsin law.

RELATED:No decision whether to charge deputy 14 months after he shot and killed suspect at lakefront

Truax fired eight shots toward Williams in three seconds, according to Lovern's letter, addressed to outgoing Milwaukee County Sheriff Richard Schmidt.

Lovern notes that Williams had ignored lights and public address commands to pull over after also disregarding a sign as he exited the Bradford Beach parking area, drove off Water Tower Drive south onto a grassy area with a squad car in pursuit, then back onto Lincoln Memorial Drive and then northbound back toward the crowded entrance to the beach.

Those actions, Lovern wrote, evinced Williams' "willingness to potentially endanger others" in an effort to avoid being stopped.

A sheriff's spokesperson confirmed Wednesday that Truax, who has been on administrative assignments since the shooting, has now returned to regular duty.

His attorney, Christopher MacGillis, said Truax was pleased with Lovern's decision and happy to be back "protecting the citizens of Milwaukee County."

The Waukesha County Sheriff's Department completed its investigation and turned it over to Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm's office within weeks, but Truax had declined to answer questions, citing his rights under the Fifth Amendment.

Truax "ultimately" gave a statement to the Waukesha County investigators, Lovern wrote, saying that he believed his own life was in danger from being struck by Williams when he decided to shoot.

MacGillis said Truax provided the statement sometime within the past five months but declined to comment further on why it took so long for a decision about potential criminal liability.

Fred Gladney, president of the Milwaukee Deputy Sheriffs Association, said the union was pleased with the decision, and that the outside investigation gave complete transparency on what occurred.

He said the union was not familiar with why Truax decided to provide a statement to investigators when he did.

In the shooting, which occurred about 7:20 p.m. on a warm summer night when thousands of people were at the lakefront, Williams was shot in the head and died a couple of days later at a hospital. A passenger in his custom-painted Audi Q7, Paula McEwen, was severely wounded.

Williams' family has filed a federal civil rights lawsuit against the county, which is pending.

RELATED:Woman injured by deputy in lakefront shooting in June files notice of injury with county

McEwen has filed a notice of claim with the county, the first step toward her own civil rights lawsuit. Her attorney, Jonathan Safran, said the police and Sheriff's Office have denied his requests for reports from the incident, citing the long-pending decision by the DA. He said would renew those requests immediately.

Safran, who has represented many families of people killed or hurt by police, said prosecutors usually meet with him before making a decision, or making it public, and was puzzled why in the case, McEwen — who was shot in the shoulder and hand and severely injured — had to learn of the DA's decision in the news media.

While he won't face criminal charges, Truax may yet feel the consequences of more lawsuits. Safran said it appears Truax ran in front of Williams at the end of a low-speed pursuit and fired while in front of and beside Williams' car.

"His actions would be inconsistent with recognized police training, and from the information we have obtained, (constituted) unconstitutional acts," Safran said.

Walter Stern, who represents Williams' family in the civil suit, said his clients declined an invitation to meet with Lovern. Stern said he did get early notice of the decision, which he said he had prepared his clients to expect.