A man, woman and their puppy are dead after a murder-suicide in Catonsville Monday, police said.Baltimore County police said officers were called around 10:19 a.m. to a house in the 2100 block of Rockwell Court. A 911 caller reported a suicidal person inside the house with a gun.Police started a barricade situation and closed roads while they investigated. Once police were able to safely enter the house, they found the bodies of both victims, which were not immediately identified.Police said Jenna Lilly, 28, and Christopher Cleaver, 33, both of Catonsville, were engaged to be married. Police said they believe Cleaver killed his girlfriend, as well as the family dog, a black lab puppy, before turning the gun on himself."They set off the bombs on that little robot that they use, and they broke down the front door and the side door, and when they went in, they found him dead, they found his fiancee dead and their puppy," said Rita Rubie, a neighbor.Rubie said Lilly and Cleaver were very quiet and stayed to themselves. "I'm just sorry for the whole thing and sorry for their families for their loss," Rubie said.Also on WBALTV.com:

A man, woman and their puppy are dead after a murder-suicide in Catonsville Monday, police said.

Baltimore County police said officers were called around 10:19 a.m. to a house in the 2100 block of Rockwell Court. A 911 caller reported a suicidal person inside the house with a gun.

Advertisement

Police started a barricade situation and closed roads while they investigated. Once police were able to safely enter the house, they found the bodies of both victims, which were not immediately identified.

Police said Jenna Lilly, 28, and Christopher Cleaver, 33, both of Catonsville, were engaged to be married. Police said they believe Cleaver killed his girlfriend, as well as the family dog, a black lab puppy, before turning the gun on himself.

"They set off the bombs on that little robot that they use, and they broke down the front door and the side door, and when they went in, they found him dead, they found his fiancee dead and their puppy," said Rita Rubie, a neighbor.



Rubie said Lilly and Cleaver were very quiet and stayed to themselves.

"I'm just sorry for the whole thing and sorry for their families for their loss," Rubie said.



This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Police say a gun was used. They believe the woman is the victim and the man is the suspect. A neighbor tells me they were engaged #WBAL https://t.co/kVNEzWjARQ — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) June 12, 2017

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

#BREAKING: Baltimore Co Police are investigating the deaths of a Catonsville man and woman as a murder suicide. #WBAL pic.twitter.com/O6cFpHKzuV — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) June 12, 2017

Also on WBALTV.com: