After telling friends and a relative he wanted to end his life, Jacob Lee Sperl went outside his Hammond, Wis., house late Saturday armed with a loaded shotgun and 19 rounds, according to authorities.

Less than a half-hour later, Sperl, 23, was shot and killed by two St. Croix County sheriff’s deputies after he aimed his shotgun at one of them, according to the sheriff’s office.

Sheriff Dennis Hillstead said his deputies had no choice but to shoot.

“It certainly could have been much different than it turned out,” Hillstead said. “But obviously it’s too early to make any qualified assumption as to the reason. But certainly it did appear his intent may have been to have an officer take his life.”

Shortly after 11 p.m. Saturday, deputies were called to the house at 1848 60th Ave. after a female relative told 911 operators that Sperl had made suicidal threats and was outside and armed with a shotgun, Hillstead said.

Two deputies arrived about 15 minutes later, parking on a nearby road before approaching the house. As they were crossing the yard, two of Sperl’s friends, who were concerned for his safety, pulled into the driveway, Hillstead said.

“Apparently he had sent some text messages, and they decided to go over to talk to him to see what they could do,” the sheriff said. “But they were not aware that law enforcement had arrived.”

The friends walked up to Sperl, who was near his garage, and began talking to him. As the deputies approached, Sperl reached down and picked up a shotgun from the ground, Hillstead said.

With handguns drawn, the deputies yelled at Sperl three times to drop the shotgun, Hillstead said, but he raised the gun and pointed it at a deputy. Both deputies fired at Sperl.

An emergency medical crew responded, but Sperl was pronounced dead at the scene.

Sperl’s shotgun was loaded with one round, and 19 more rounds were found on him, Hillstead said.

Hillstead could not say for sure how many bullets struck Sperl.

He said his office is awaiting results from an autopsy performed Sunday by the Ramsey County medical examiner.

The deputies who fired the shots are on administrative leave pending an investigation, which is standard procedure in such cases.

A relative told an investigator that Sperl had become distraught earlier Saturday over “personal issues,” Hillstead said. He said other than a few traffic convictions, Sperl did not have a criminal history.

Sperl’s father, Gregory Sperl, of Inver Grove Heights, said his son had been living with his mother and her husband in Hammond since August. He previously lived in an apartment with a girlfriend.

He said his son was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving about two weeks ago in Inver Grove Heights, where he grew up.

“He hit me up for $5,000 that he needed for an attorney,” Gregory Sperl said.

But Jacob Sperl, who graduated from Simley High School, seemed happy and had lots of friends, his father said. He liked to hunt and fish.

“He belonged in the woods,” his father said. “I raised him that way.”

Nick Ferraro can be reached at nferraro@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-2173.