A suspect fleeing from police struck two teenage boys with a car in Delaware County Friday night, killing both of them, authorities say.

Police arrested 19-year-old Maurquis Javon Thompson of Chester in connection with the accident, which occurred at the intersection of Chester Pike and Glenolden Avenue at about 9:40 p.m.

Police say that Thompson was fleeing from a Folcroft police officer who tried to pull over his maroon Chevrolet Lumina for speeding on Chester Pike. Thomas initially obeyed the officer and pulled the vehicle over before speeding off again, according to investigators.

Witness Erica Williams told NBC Philadelphia that she was going into her apartment at the time of the accident.

"A car came flying [at 100 miles per hour]," Williams said. "[It] got to this intersection and 'Boom!' All you heard."

The Lumina, which belonged to Thompson's girlfriend, was found by police three blocks away from the accident, near the intersection of Chester Pike and Cleveland Avenue in Norwood. Thompson himself was arrested three blocks away from the car after being recognized by an officer who had pulled him over in the Lumina before.

Police said that Thompson appeared to be under the influence of drugs and that he had bloodshot eyes and was slurring his speech. Marijuana was found on the driver's seat of the abandoned Lumina.

The first boy, Michael Taylor, 15, died at the scene. The second boy, Mark McNeill, 15, was taken to the hospital in critical condition. He died from his injuries Saturday afternoon. Both teens were students at Academy Park High School.

"I think it's really messed up how people drive around like maniacs," said Tia Peyreferry, a friend of the victims. Peyreferry claims she was with the two teens moments before the accident.

"Someone told me what happened to them and we started crying because we felt like it was our fault."

"It's just such a tragedy," said Michelle Hisler. "When I think about the parents and the family of these children, this could have very well been my child."

Exact charges against Thompson have not been released, but bail has been set at $1 million.

Friends and family of Taylor and McNeill gathered at the scene of the accident Saturday night to hold a candlelight vigil which lasted for a few hours.

"Everybody's in shock that this happened," said Taylor's cousin Barbara Wiker. "It's the last thing we expected to happen."