Man Dies After York Officers Use Stun Gun On Him

State police are investigating the death of a man after York police used a stun gun on him Wednesday afternoon. Howard Thomas Cooke, 30, of York, was pronounced dead at York Hospital following an incident at the intersection of Market and West streets about 4 p.m. in York.Officials with the York County coroner's office said his cause of death is pending toxicology results. His body had no visible trauma."On the face of it, from what we are seeing, it looks like our officers acted within our rules and regulations and within the state's rules and regulations, but again, we'll let the investigating ferret all that," York Police Chief Wes Kahley said. Regarding the officers involved, Kahley said, "They are off on administrative leave, two officers right now, and that's normal."Police said a York officer attempted to pull over a vehicle driven by a 42-year-old man when Cooke ran from the vehicle. Police said another officer chased Cooke and used a stun gun on him, which was ineffective in stopping him.Police said Cooke was then caught by officers, but he continued to resist arrest, prompting officers to "drive stun" him. The drive stun option on a stun gun causes significant localized pain in the area touched by the device, but is not supposed to have a significant effect on the central nervous system.Officers arrested Cooke and while in custody, police said he became unresponsive. He was taken to York Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.The driver did not flee police and was arrested.Police said Cooke had outstanding warrants for his arrest.

State police are investigating the death of a man after York police used a stun gun on him Wednesday afternoon.

Advertisement

Howard Thomas Cooke, 30, of York, was pronounced dead at York Hospital following an incident at the intersection of Market and West streets about 4 p.m. in York.

Officials with the York County coroner's office said his cause of death is pending toxicology results. His body had no visible trauma.

"On the face of it, from what we are seeing, it looks like our officers acted within our rules and regulations and within the state's rules and regulations, but again, we'll let the investigating ferret all that," York Police Chief Wes Kahley said.

Regarding the officers involved, Kahley said, "They are off on administrative leave, two officers right now, and that's normal."

Police said a York officer attempted to pull over a vehicle driven by a 42-year-old man when Cooke ran from the vehicle. Police said another officer chased Cooke and used a stun gun on him, which was ineffective in stopping him.

Police said Cooke was then caught by officers, but he continued to resist arrest, prompting officers to "drive stun" him. The drive stun option on a stun gun causes significant localized pain in the area touched by the device, but is not supposed to have a significant effect on the central nervous system.

Officers arrested Cooke and while in custody, police said he became unresponsive. He was taken to York Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

The driver did not flee police and was arrested.

Police said Cooke had outstanding warrants for his arrest.