Larry D. Marsh said he wanted police to shoot him, according to state police.

He got his wish.

An officer shot and killed Marsh at an Earl Township mobile home park early Wednesday morning, ending a tense, three-hour standoff.

During the confrontation with police, Marsh displayed a rifle and repeatedly refused to drop it, police said. Officers said they tried for several hours to negotiate with Marsh, who has an arrest record for kidnapping, armed robbery and impersonating a police officer in Ohio.

When Marsh got into a firing position and leveled his gun at officers, one killed him with a single shot.

The standoff began just before 1 a.m., after Marsh, 41, called 911, indicating he wanted "the police to shoot him," according to a release from the state police.

Officers responded to Marsh's trailer in the Green Acres Mobile Home Park on Linden Grove Road, a rural road north of New Holland.

After Marsh displayed a .22-caliber rifle, the Lancaster County Special Emergency Response Team was summoned. Officers from New Holland and Ephrata boroughs, East Cocalico, East Earl, West Earl and Warwick townships and the state police in Ephrata responded.

Neighbors said they were awakened Wednesday by the sound of emergency vehicles and saw police officers with guns near the trailer park.

A resident of the park said she was notified by telephone that residents might have to evacuate during the standoff. The residents, however, were able to stay in their homes.

Someone who heard emergency radio transmissions during the incident said conversations indicated that Marsh had gasoline and a torch, and also was leaving his trailer and going to a nearby shed.

At 3:40 a.m., an officer fatally shot Marsh, after he aimed his rifle at officers, police said.

State police did not identify the officer who shot Marsh.

No one else was injured during the incident.

Lancaster County District Attorney Craig Stedman said he asked the Pennsylvania State Police to investigate the shooting.

"Preliminary information obtained by investigators indicates that the officers used the proper amount of force in this situation and acted appropriately under the circumstances," according to a release from State Police Cpl. Robert Courtwright of the Ephrata barracks. "The investigation is still ongoing and further details will be released as they become available."

Linden Grove Road was blocked off Wednesday morning as numerous police officers remained at the scene in a steady downpour. Two officers appeared to be marking evidence in a farm field on the opposite side of Linden Grove Road from the trailer park.

Marsh had an arrest history, with his most serious incidents occurring in Ohio, where he lived before moving here about four years ago.

Ohio court records indicate Marsh was arrested in 1997 for aggravated robbery and kidnapping, both with a firearm.

A story in the Cleveland Plain Dealer newspaper from the time noted that Marsh had kidnapped a United Parcel Service driver in Middleburg Heights, Ohio.

Police said Marsh pointed a semiautomatic pistol at the driver, forced his way into the man's truck, blindfolded and handcuffed him and robbed him of about $100, the Plain Dealer reported.

Marsh then drove the truck to a shopping center, abandoning it with the driver inside, according to the story.

Court documents indicated that Marsh had pleaded guilty to theft and impersonating a police officer in an unrelated matter, and had been scheduled to be sentenced at the time of the 1997 kidnapping, the newspaper reported.

At the arraignment on the kidnapping and robbery charges, Marsh's attorney said Marsh had been treated for depression at a private hospital in Cleveland and had received psychiatric treatment at another hospital outside of Ohio, the Plain Dealer reported.

However, a psychiatric clinic and doctor both found him competent to stand trial, saying he was not suffering from a "mental disease."

Marsh later pleaded guilty to the charges, and served a 10-year jail sentence, court records show.

Six months after he got out of jail, he married a woman who lived at the Earl Township trailer park, local marriage licenses show. Marsh indicated he was from Bellefontaine, a town in western Ohio.

In October, local court records show that Marsh was charged with possession of marijuana, possession of drug paraphernalia, driving at an unsafe speed, reckless driving and accidental damage to unattended vehicle or property.

In December, he pleaded guilty to possession of drug paraphernalia, driving at an unsafe speed and the accidental damage charge. The other two charges were withdrawn.

cstauffer@lnpnews.com