Police officers who pursued vehicles that killed three people in two separate crashes used proper judgment and followed department procedures, Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn said Saturday.

In a statement released Saturday afternoon, Flynn blamed the deaths of three Milwaukee residents in their early 20s on "the reckless behavior of criminals" rather than improper actions by his department.

The choice of whether to pursue a suspect is at the discretion of officers "based on objective standards that balance the danger to the community represented by continuing to attempt to stop the vehicle versus the danger represented by the uncaptured fleeing person," Flynn said.

Flynn issued his statement a day after Common Council President Willie Hines called for a review of the department's chase procedures after the two fatal accidents in two days. Hines said Saturday that he is still interested in talking with the chief about ways to stop individuals from fleeing police.

"What we have to make certain is that people are not fleeing from police officers and, if they do, then there have to be some (penalty) enhancers when they take a life," Hines said.

University of Wisconsin-Madison student Shanica Adkins, 21, was killed Thursday when the Geo Prizm driven by her high school sweetheart, Donta Brown, was struck by an SUV that ran a red light at N. Sherman Blvd. and W. Center St. The suspects in the Mercury Mountaineer that killed Adkins were fleeing police, who had attempted to pull the SUV over because it was missing a front license plate.

Brown remained in critical condition at Froedtert Hospital in Wauwatosa on Saturday.

On Friday, Don J. Hamilton, 23, and Donte Pearson, 21, were killed when an SUV that had been reported stolen ran a red light at N. 27th and W. Locust streets and struck the car in which they were traveling.

In his statement, Flynn said both accidents occurred "within minutes or even seconds" after the officers involved attempted to stop the vehicles.

He said the officers pursuing the vehicle involved in the Thursday morning crash followed the SUV for about four blocks before halting the chase. The fleeing SUV crashed into Brown and Adkins' car about four blocks later, he said.

The squad car pursuing the stolen SUV on Friday had just pulled out of a parking lot at N. 27th and W. Burleigh streets, where officers had been flagged down by a woman who reported her vehicle had been stolen, when the SUV sped up and crashed into Hamilton and Pearson's car two blocks later, he said. The crash occurred just seconds after the officers initiated the pursuit, he said.

"We regret that these two tragedies were in any way related to police efforts to protect our community," Flynn said in his statement. "We will thoroughly examine these two incidents and we will communicate our findings as soon as we can."

Police have three suspects in custody in connection with the two crashes. The driver in the Thursday accident has been taken into custody as police search for other passengers who may have been in the fleeing vehicle at the time of the crash.

In addition, the 18-year-old driver of the stolen vehicle involved in the Friday crash is in custody facing two counts of homicide by intoxicated use of a motor vehicle, fleeing an officer and operating an automobile without the owner's consent. A 16-year-old passenger in the stolen vehicle has been referred to juvenile authorities, Flynn said.