By of the

Marinette — By all accounts, Samuel Hengel was a nice kid.

Good student, loved to hunt and fish, well-liked, a Boy Scout, even-keeled, plenty of friends, loving family.

What motivated the 15-year-old sophomore to bring two semi-automatic handguns and a duffel bag filled with ammunition and a knife to his sixth-hour social studies class, hold his classmates and teacher hostage for about six hours and then shoot himself in the head will likely remain a mystery.

Hengel died Tuesday morning at a Green Bay hospital without revealing a motive.

"We may never truly know why this happened," Marinette County District Attorney Allen Brey said.

Outside Hengel's home in Porterfield was a large sign that said, "We do not wish to speak at this time."

His family did, however, issue a statement saying they did not know of a motive for his actions but were thankful no one else was injured.

"We wish we knew and could provide insight to what led Sam to take these drastic acts," the statement said. "Our thoughts and prayers are also with the students, teacher, their families and others affected by this horrific incident. Although there were no physical injuries to others, we regret the emotional trauma to all involved."

On Tuesday authorities revealed more chilling details about what went on inside the basement classroom after a couple dozen students gathered for Valerie Burd's sixth-hour class. Some time after the 1:30 p.m. class started, Hengel asked to go to the bathroom.

He returned carrying a duffel bag. Inside were two semi-automatic handguns - 9mm and .22-caliber. He fired two or three shots, including a shot into a video projector. Then Hengel collected everyone's cell phones so they couldn't contact anyone.

Students showing up for Burd's seventh-hour class saw a note on the door directing them to the library. Apparently no one heard the initial shots because the first time school officials learned something was wrong was when a father of a student being held hostage went to the high school after repeatedly trying to contact his daughter and not getting a response.

After talking to the father, Principal Corry Lambie walked to Burd's class and used his key to open the locked door. Lambie looked into the darkened classroom, saw Hengel at a podium in the front of the class and the students and Burd sitting at their desks.

"I took a couple steps in. The student threatened me with the gun and told me to step back and leave the classroom. At which point I stepped back. He told me again to get back, get out of the room, and I shut the door," Lambie said.

Before Lambie left to call police, the man's daughter walked out of the classroom about 3:45 p.m. Within minutes police were speeding to the scene and trying to establish contact with Hengel, who refused to talk to negotiators but allowed Burd to communicate using a land line in the classroom.

Students said Hengel was mostly calm and talked with them, at times joking and bantering, and they told investigators they didn't feel threatened by him. When five students asked to leave to go to the bathroom at 7:40 p.m., he told them they could go.

"No demands, no requests made. At times (Hengel) was described as quiet and solemn," Marinette police Chief Jeff Skorik said. "We always hope we can resolve the situation without any injuries but it's difficult when you can't talk to the suspect."

Twenty minutes later, Hengel fired three shots inside the classroom - not at anyone, but at a desk and equipment. What set him off was unclear. When police heard the gunfire they breached the door and, while some officers surrounded the students at one end of the classroom, others moved toward Hengel, who then shot himself.

No one else was injured. Police did not fire any shots.

Teacher maintained calm

Portrayed as a hero was Burd, a social studies teacher who has worked at Marinette High School for at least a decade. Authorities praised her cool and calming influence for defusing the tense standoff, keeping up the spirits of the hostages and relaying information to authorities from inside the classroom.

"I don't think I can say enough about Val Burd. She saved the lives of many students by her calm demeanor," Lambie said.

At Burd's home in Menominee township across the border in Michigan, her husband said she wasn't ready to talk publicly about the incident.

Skorik was in his office going through police reports when he heard the radio dispatch of a student at the high school armed with a gun.

"Initially my first thought was, 'No, this can't be happening.' And then I went into setting up an incident command center," said Skorik, adding that Marinette police had trained in August for a school shooting scenario.

Within minutes, all off-duty Marinette police officers had been called in, and officials from area police, sheriff's and fire departments, including some from Michigan, as well as the Department of Natural Resources and Wisconsin State Patrol were speeding toward the scene. The hospital, Bay Area Medical Center, was put on notice, preparing for the possibility of 25 seriously injured people.

After it ended about 8 p.m. Monday, Hengel was taken to the hospital, where emergency room personnel found bullets in his pockets. Skorik declined to say how many rounds of ammunition Hengel had but said several shell casings were found on the classroom floor from both the 9mm and .22-caliber handguns.

Motive a mystery

Skorik said he did not know how Hengel got the weapons.

Hengel's parents cooperated with police. Skorik said there were no incidents, no reports of bullying, no apparent stress in Hengel's life, nothing that "may have been his trigger."

Hengel was a hardworking, trustworthy Boy Scout who volunteered for community service projects and had plenty of friends, a strong family and the respect of adults who knew him, said Henry Johnston, an assistant scoutmaster with Hengel's troop.

"He was a good kid," Johnston said. "This was something you would never expect. You could talk to him. He was very respectful. He was looked up to by a lot of kids, a lot of the younger kids."

Johnston said he saw no signs that Hengel was upset or depressed.

"It doesn't fit any of the stereotypes," Johnston said. "He wasn't an outsider."

No metal detectors were in use at the school at the time of the incident. The police chief said metal detectors were used to check bags and students several years ago - he estimated it was six to eight years ago - after a rash of bomb threats at the high school.

Just how all of the students, who didn't show up for their seventh-hour classes, were not missed until half an hour after school ended for the day or how the initial gunshots were not heard was not explained by authorities Tuesday. Lambie speculated that it's possible others heard the initial gunshots and thought it was a door slamming.

The high school was closed Tuesday as crime scene investigators collected evidence from the classroom. Authorities were also interviewing hostages, including those who were too rattled to talk Monday night.

Classes are expected to resume Wednesday at the high school of 700 students. Extracurricular activities scheduled for Tuesday evening were canceled.

Superintendent Timothy Baneck said, "Thank goodness we did not have a sadder conclusion."

Marinette Mayor Bob Harbick, a former Marinette County sheriff, said parents of students held hostage gathered at the Courthouse on Monday night and prayed together as the hours wore on and they waited for word.

"This boy, I understand, was a very nice young man," said Harbick, who was in the high school cafeteria with school officials throughout the hostage situation.

Hengel was transferred Monday night to St. Vincent Hospital in Green Bay and was pronounced dead at 10:44 a.m. Tuesday, according to Marinette County Coroner George Smith.

Funeral services for Hengel are pending.

***

Timeline

1:30 p.m. Monday: Sixth hour starts at Marinette High School. Samuel O. Hengel shows up for social studies class taught by Valerie Burd, along with about two dozen other students. At some point during the class, Hengel asks to use the bathroom. He returns with a duffel bag filled with ammunition, two semi-automatic handguns and one knife. He fires a couple of shots, and the hostage situation begins.

2:20 p.m.: Seventh hour starts. Burd's students for seventh hour social studies find a note taped to the class door, telling them to go to the library.

3:12 p.m.: School ends.

3:45 p.m.: The father of a girl in Burd's sixth-hour class gets worried because his daughter is not responding to messages or calls on her cell phone. He goes to the office of Principal Corry Lambie, who uses his key to open Burd's classroom. Hengel points a gun at Lambie and tells him to leave. The girl leaves the classroom.

3:48 p.m.: Lambie calls 911. Officers from several departments arrive in minutes, set up a command post, block off streets around the high school.

7:40 p.m.: Five hostages ask to leave the classroom to go to the bathroom. Hengel lets them go.

8:03 p.m.: Shortly after hearing three gunshots from inside the classroom, officers break through the door. As they move toward Hengel, the 15-year-old shoots himself in the head. The remaining hostages are unharmed.

10:44 a.m. Tuesday: Hengel is pronounced dead at St. Vincent Hospital in Green Bay.

Ryan Haggerty of the Journal Sentinel staff contributed to this report.