Deputy John Gunderson doesn’t remember whether he hunkered down behind a guardrail only 30 feet from where his Eau Claire County sheriff’s squad car was struck head-on early Thursday by a vehicle traveling at an estimated 120 mph.

“There was just the roar of the car coming and the sound of the impact,” Gunderson said Thursday.

“There was debris everywhere. I don’t know if anything hit me, but there was nothing that left any marks,” he said. “It was amazing.”

The driver of the other vehicle, Ryan J. Bogdonovich, 30, of Fairchild, was pronounced dead at the scene.

The crash at U.S. 10 and Humbird Street near the Jackson-Eau Claire County line near Fairchild ended a high-speed chase with authorities that began at 2 a.m. Thursday in Osseo.

According to the Wisconsin State Patrol, a trooper attempted to stop Bogdonovich’s vehicle, a 1995 Mercury Grand Marquis, for traffic violations on U.S. 10 in Osseo. Bogdonovich failed to stop and traveled east on U.S. 10 at a high rate of speed.

The trooper followed the vehicle and asked for assistance from the Eau Claire County sheriff’s office.

That’s where Gunderson got involved.

Gunderson parked his squad car westbound on the shoulder on U.S. 10 at Humbird Street. He placed stop sticks on the highway, got on the other side of the guardrail and “went down into the ditch to get even farther away from the car,” he said.

When the Bogdonovich vehicle was about 300 yards from his squad car, Gunderson said, “It appeared he was coming straight toward my vehicle.”

The State Patrol said Bogdonovich’s vehicle crossed the centerline and then struck the squad head-on.

Gunderson, a four-year veteran of the sheriff’s office, said the impact from the collision moved his squad car about 170 feet.

Authorities say Bogdonovich may have been drinking. The collision totaled both vehicles.

The Jackson County sheriff’s office is investigating the incident, but both Eau Claire County Sheriff Ron Cramer and Jackson County District Attorney Gerald Fox said all involved law enforcement officers appeared to have acted appropriately.

Osseo police and the Jackson and Eau Claire county sheriff’s offices assisted the State Patrol.

“This guy could have killed somebody,” Cramer said of Bogdonovich’s actions.

The impact from the collision pushed the engine of the squad car into the interior of the vehicle, Cramer said.

Thursday’s incident is the second time in less than six months in which an Eau Claire County sheriff’s squad was totaled following a crash.

An Eau Claire man was found not guilty by reason of mental disease or defect after colliding with and totaling a squad car following a high-speed chase on U.S. 12 last fall.

Dennis M. Mohr, 51, was charged with felony counts of attempted aggravated battery and eluding an officer resulting in bodily harm.

Mohr was not institutionalized. Judge Paul Lenz will consider a conditional release plan for Mohr at an April 15 hearing.

The Oct. 11 chase started in Eau Claire and ended near Augusta when the van Mohr was driving collided with and totaled the squad car driven by Eau Claire County sheriff’s Deputy Robert Shugarts.

Mohr’s van collided with the rear of the squad car. The cage between the front and rear seats of the squad was pulled off its brackets.

Shugarts, who was treated at an area hospital and released, sustained neck and back injuries.