EVERETT — The death of a 19-year-old man who stopped breathing after a struggle with Everett police in November was an accident, the Snohomish County medical examiner’s office has ruled.

Mylo Harvey of Marysville died at Providence Everett Medical Center four days after a struggle last Nov. 11. Police said they were trying to arrest Harvey because he was naked in public and had been screaming and throwing beer cans in two convenience stores.

Police reports say Harvey resisted arrest, so officers used pepper spray on him. As they began to place him in handcuffs, they realized he had stopped breathing.

The medical examiner’s office concluded that Harvey’s brain was deprived of oxygen during the struggle because of pulmonary arrest. “Agitated delirium” brought on by hallucinogenic drugs contributed to his death, officials said.

Based on the findings, there will be no inquest.

Woman arrested in shooting of Edmonds man

EVERETT — A 30-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly shooting a 29-year-old man inside her Edmonds apartment early yesterday morning.

The woman, who was booked for investigation of first-degree assault at around 9 last night, shot the Edmonds man after they got into a fight, police said. She has no prior felony convictions, said Edmonds police Sgt. John Cameron.

The man was in satisfactory condition this morning at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle.

Police are refusing to release the victim’s name but say he was shot in the abdomen while inside the woman’s apartment in the 21300 block of 72nd Avenue West. The man then managed to walk down a stairwell and pull the fire alarm before collapsing at around 1:30 a.m.

Cameron said detectives have conflicting statements from several people but believe victim, the female suspect and the witnesses to the shooting had been drinking.

Man arrested in Kent slaying

KENT — A 40-year-old man was arrested yesterday in connection with the strangling death of a woman whose body was found near a trash container behind a restaurant.

Richard Allan Case of Kalispell, Mont., was booked into the Kent city jail for investigation of murder in the death of 27-year-old Teresa Jackson, who police said was his girlfriend.

Jackson had come to the Seattle area with Case in November and was living in a house in SeaTac in the weeks before her death Jan. 18, Kent police spokesman Paul Petersen said.

When police interviewed Case the day Jackson's body was found, they booked him on an Island County arrest warrant for violating probation stemming from a reckless-driving charge. He had been serving that sentence until yesterday.

Police arrested him in connection with Jackson's killing yesterday afternoon. A court appearance was scheduled for today.

Jackson had been dead a few hours when her body was found by a parking-lot cleaner behind the Circo Circo restaurant. An autopsy determined strangulation was the cause of death.

Portland cabbie found dead after signaling emergency

PORTLAND — Police found the body of a cabdriver in bushes beside a northeast Portland street a few hours after he pushed an emergency button in his cab.

Greigory Rogozhnikov, 33, a recent immigrant from Ukraine, activated the emergency switch in his cab around 5 a.m. Sunday, dispatchers said.

The switch signals dispatchers to alert them that the driver is in trouble. About 45 minutes later, dispatchers called police.

Police say they began looking for the cab and its driver. Shortly after 9 a.m., they received a call that led them to the body. Police found Rogozhnikov's cab abandoned around 5 p.m. Sunday.

Police said they do not have a description of a suspect nor do they know a motive for the killing.

Information is from Seattle Times staff and news services.