Milwaukee police investigate an apparent shooting of a suspect by an officer near the King and I and George Webb's restaurants on N. 3rd St. Credit: Rick Wood

SHARE

By of the

Milwaukee police shot and killed a man who had robbed the Guaranty Bank in the downtown Grand Avenue Mall about 3:30 p.m. Friday and fired at officers in pursuit, Chief Ed Flynn said.

The man, who was on parole for robbing the same bank about 10 years ago, was shot in a parking lot behind George Webb restaurant on N. Old World 3rd St.

"One of our officers, a 37-year-old four-year veteran of the force, returned fire and apparently killed the suspect instantly," Flynn said. "None of our officers were harmed."

Police identified the robber as 34-year-old Shante D. Alford. He was released from prison in late 2010, according to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.

Police had been on alert since Thursday for Alford, who was wanted for robbing the M&I Bank at 7501 W. North Ave. in Wauwatosa on Sept. 28 and the U.S. Bank at 2303 N. Farwell Ave. on Wednesday. In the Sept. 28 robbery, Alford handed a note to a teller that read "need money, no dye packs," but was told by the teller that she didn't have any money, according to a criminal complaint. He didn't get any money and fled the bank but was later identified via video surveillance.

Friday's dramatic chain of events played out in the mall and on the streets of Milwaukee, beginning with the bank robbery in the mall that was "at gunpoint," Flynn said.

"Police saturated the area and with the help of witnesses and people on the street, the suspect was identified walking along 3rd St.," Flynn said. "Officers confronted the suspect. He fled."

Officers continued the pursuit on foot and called for the suspect to stop, Flynn said.

"The suspect turned with a handgun and fired at police," Flynn said.

One shocked witness said he tried to drive into the parking lot, but was waved off by police just prior to the shooting.

Another man said he glimpsed the final confrontation.

Rene Valles, 41, a doctor from Salt Lake City, said he was walking from the Hyatt Regency Milwaukee hotel to Walgreens in the Grand Avenue when he saw a man being pursued by police.

"I didn't see the gentleman go down, but I heard three shots," Valles said.

"I was just going to the Walgreens. I heard a bunch of shooting and yelling. I thought it was a training exercise."

Valles said he heard police shout at the suspect.

"There were some orders. I don't know what was said. From the tone and rapid speech, there was a command."