By of the

Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm has cleared West Allis police of wrongdoing in the death of Robert W. Maurina, 46, who died the day after police punched him and used a Taser on him.

West Allis police did not use excessive force when they attempted to subdue Maurina, who was "violently resistive" when workers at Aurora West Allis Memorial Hospital tried to take a blood sample for alcohol testing on Nov. 28, according to a letter from Chisholm to Charles Padgett, West Allis' acting police chief .

The medical examiner ruled Maurina's death natural, due to heart disease, according to records.

Chisholm's letter says Medical Examiner Brian Peterson "indicated that he could draw no connection between the confrontation with the West Allis Police in the hospital and Robert Maurina's death."

"I find no evidence to contradict the conclusion of the medical examiner or to believe that the officers acted in excess of their lawful authority while attempting to recover evidence of Maurina's intoxication," Chisholm's letter says.

Chisholm reviewed the case at the request of the Police Department.

Maurina was out on bail for a pending charge of fourth-offense drunken driving when police pulled over his girlfriend's car Nov. 28, the letter says. Maurina was a passenger in the car. Police arrested the woman and drove Maurina home because they suspected he, too, was intoxicated.

About 90 minutes later, he drove to the police station to pick her up and was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving.

Maurina "continually struggled and pulled his arm away" when the phlebotomist tried to draw his blood, the letter says.

Officer Jason Vanderwerff struck Maurina in the abdomen, but he continued to resist. Even after more officers arrived, Maurina continued to struggle, so Vanderwerff used the Taser on him, the letter says. After that, a second phlebotomist was able to draw blood.

The two phlebotomists told Chisholm they "feared for their safety because of Maurina's actions," the letter says.

The next day, Maurina's brother found him dead in a basement restroom, the letter says. He was a smoker and had a history of heart problems, the letter says.