A violent felon from Franklin is dead after state authorities say he pulled a gun on two Williamson County Sheriff's Office deputies late Tuesday morning following a stolen car chase near Interstate 65.

David Bryan Creson, 40, of Franklin, died after being shot at least one time by a deputy who said Creson pulled a gun on him and one other deputy on the I-65 overpass at Peytonsville Road.

The shooting shut down the overpass as well as the highway's southbound exit ramp at the Goose Creek Bypass for several hours, clogging traffic for miles.

Tennessee Bureau of Investigation director Mark Gwyn said that just before 9:40 a.m., Franklin Police Department officers had been pursing a stolen vehicle. At some point, police pulled out of the pursuit and deputies took over.

About 10:40 a.m., deputies spotted the vehicle near Lewisburg Pike, and according to the TBI, started a pursuit that continued over the overpass.

"As the vehicle went over the I-65 overpass, it stopped, the individual exited that vehicle, brandished a weapon, pointed it at deputies, and one deputy shot and struck the individual," Gywn said.

Creson died at the scene.

Gwyn said one deputy suffered a leg injury, but no one else was hurt. The extent of the deputy's injury was not immediately known.

During a news conference Tuesday, Williamson County District Attorney Kim Helper said Creson had an outstanding warrant in Williamson County.

It was not immediately known what he was wanted for, but Tuesday's incident wasn't Creson's first violent encounter or involvement with law enforcement.

According to Davidson County Court records, Creson was convicted of voluntary manslaughter and aggravated robbery in 1996.

Creson and two other men who police say were involved in the case - Mario Harris and Joseph Williams - were charged with criminal homicide in the August 1995 fatal shooting of Robert Ingram.

Ingram, 26, was killed at his home at 2622 Murfreesboro Road, Lot 27, when the three assailants burst in the man's mobile home wearing masks.

According to sheriff's spokeswoman Sharon Puckett, the names of the deputies involved in the shooting will be released once their families are notified about the investigation. The TBI does not identify law enforcement involved in officer-involved shootings.

Katherine Scheu and Colton Pouncy contributed to this report.