Lane County, Douglas County, state and local officials held a press conference Friday, to report the findings of an investigation into the officer-involved shooting that occurred June 24, on Highway 126, just east of Florence, which resulted in the death of 37-year-old Cameron Ollman of Mapleton.

Lane County District Attorney Patty Perlow opened the press conference with a statement that praised the officers involved in the deadly incident, thanking them for their professionalism and courage. She then revealed the findings of the two-week investigation by the Interagency Deadly Force Investigation Team (IDFIT).

“The use of force was justified by our law enforcement members and I am grateful for their response to these events,” said Perlow. “I hope the community appreciates the professionalism and willingness of these individuals to risk their own lives for all of the rest of us.

“We are all fortunate that the outcome of the events of June 24, did not include death or serious physical injury to one of our members of law enforcement or one of the members of the public.”

Multiple agencies responded to the deadly encounter, which ultimately involved officers from the Florence Police Department, along with Lane and Douglas County Sheriffs.

Detective Cale Day of the Oregon State Police conducted and reported on the investigation into the incident and offered an official summation of the events that led to the shooting death of Ollman.

“On Saturday, June 24, at approximately 5 p.m., deputies with the Lane County Sherriffs office finished several hours of training at a facility in Mapleton. After leaving the training venue, two of the deputies involved in the training exercise were driving on State Route 126 West when they identified a suspect from a previous incident,” said Day, who explained that the officers recognized the driver of a vehicle that had been involved in a chase with police two nights prior.

The suspect had fired a weapon at the officer who ultimately discontinued pursuit.

The information provided by the officer from the chase was used to identify Ollman as Sheriffs left the training excersize in Mapleton. The officers attempted to pull Ollman over, but he instead led them on a chase back towards Mapleton, eventually fleeing down Highway 36, where spike strips flattened Ollman’s tires.

He fired at officers and exited the vehicle. During this time a woman, who was later identified as Ollman’s wife, Jessica Ollman, exited the vehicle and attempted to impede the officers.

During the exchange, Ollman approached a motorist driving a Ford pick-up truck and, brandishing his firearm, highjacked the vehicle.

Mrs. Ollman told officers that her husband was planning on “Death by Cop.”

Meanwhile, Ollman headed back towards Florence at a high rate of speed with officers in pursuit. Spike strips were once utilized to disable the vehicle, with Ollman eluding police on foot.

A short time later, officers received word that a 911 call had been received stating that a turquoise Subaru had been stolen at gunpoint from a home about 15 miles up North Fork Road.

Ollman drove by the officers as he again headed west on Highway 126 towards Florence.

By this time, officers from the Florence Police department and the Douglas County Sheriffs department were closely following the stolen car.

Spike strips were deployed again and the suspect’s car was seriously damaged but continued towards Florence. Deciding there was considerable danger to the public if Ollman reached town, an officer from the Florence Police Department used his vehicle to spin the suspect’s car in an attempt to further disable the vehicle.

Two more officers intentionally collided with the disabled vehicle to completely stop it’s progress. Ollman fired at the pursuing officers, prompting them to open fire until he appeared to no longer be a threat. Ultimately, nine officers from three agencies discharged their firearms in the exchange.

Perlow said she did not know how many bullets struck Ollman or who delivered the fatal shot.

Emergency medical personnel were called to the scene and Ollman was pronounced dead at the scene.

Lane County Sheriff Byron Trapp summed up the news conference by highlighting the cooperation that occurred in this incident.

“It is very reassuring to me to know that being an Oregon Sheriff, we have partnerships across the state and know that, without hesitation, other Sheriffs offices will support and respond to our communities when need — as we do to theirs,” said Trapp. “This was the perfect example of the coordinated efforts that occur routinely between our departments.”

Florence police Chief Tom Turner was the last official to speak.

“The protection of our community is our number one priority. The citizens of Lane county were very well-protected during this absolutely egregious situation,” Turner said. “I echo the Sheriffs comments on the professionalism shown by all of the officers and agencies involved in this incident.”