The man who was fatally shot by three Tulsa Police officers Saturday night during an investigation into a stolen vehicle has been identified.

Officers identified the man as 47-year-old Jimmie Bevenue, police spokeswoman Jeanne MacKenzie said in a news release. Multiple court records and the Oklahoma Department of Corrections refer to him as Jimmy Bevenue.

Police came into contact with Bevenue about 8 p.m. Saturday at a home near 4th Place and Garnett Road where officers saw a possible stolen vehicle in the driveway.

Three people were standing near the vehicle when officers pulled up. As they approached, Bevenue ran from the back door of the home with a handgun, MacKenzie said.

He ran through the conjoining backyard to a neighbor’s home, where he kicked open the back door. Three officers then fired several rounds at him. Bevenue was pronounced dead at the scene.

Prior to the shooting, officers had ordered Bevenue to drop his weapon, MacKenzie said.

Police later confirmed the vehicle was stolen, and that the gun Bevenue was carrying was in the vehicle when it was taken.

Tulsa Police reported Saturday night that the man had fled from inside a stolen car during a traffic stop and ran into a neighborhood.

On Sunday, they released a statement correcting the preliminary reports.

“As with any initial incident more information comes to light shedding a more accurate picture as to what occurred,” MacKenzie said.

Bevenue had several run-ins with law enforcement since 1988. He was convicted of multiple offenses, including possessing a credit card that belonged to someone else, second-degree burglary, escaping confinement and carrying a weapon, drugs and/or alcohol into jail, according to Oklahoma Department of Corrections records.

He was last released from DOC custody in 2012.

In August 2016, Bevenue was arrested on allegations he burglarized a home, fled from officers and assaulted an officer.

When officers attempted to arrest Bevenue, he allegedly “continued to pull, jerk away and even elbowed an officer in the face,” according to an arrest and booking report.

He was charged with first-degree burglary, assault and battery upon a police officer and resisting arrest in connection with that incident. He pleaded not guilty to the charges May 30 and was scheduled for a jury trial on Oct. 2, according to online court records.

Bevenue’s fatal shooting is the Tulsa Police Department fifth of 2017. It’s the third fatal police shooting they’ve been involved in this month.

The names of the officers involved in Saturday’s shooting have not been released. They have been placed on routine administrative leave, MacKenzie said.