BY MATTHEW KEMENY AND DONALD GILLILAND

A suspect who holed up in Harrisburg’s Hall Manor during a standoff with police that lasted more than nine hours was found dead in the apartment early today.

The body Abel Roman, 24, was found shortly before 12:30 a.m. with at least a shotgun and a “fair amount of ammunition,” Dauphin County District Attorney Edward M. Marsico Jr. said.

It is not known whether Roman was shot by police or took his own life.

The standoff had been punctuated by bouts of gunfire — it was estimated that more than 100 shots were fired during the evening — as police tried to take Roman into custody on an aggravated-assault warrant out of Philadelphia.

Roman was named to Week's Most Wanted list for Dec. 2 according to Philly.com, for allegedly shooting a 23-year-old man in the chest while he was driving on Annsburg Street.



A city police officer was hit by gunfire during one of the exchanges, and was taken to a hospital for treatment of a gunshot wound to the hand, police said. Television stations identified the injured officer as Kirk Aldrich.

Marsico said that in the Dauphin County Crisis Response Team’s 20 years in existence, it had never been fired on so many times by a suspect.

As the drama unfolded, residents were ordered to remain in their homes or to wait outside. The Harrisburg Housing Authority assisted residents, finding some of them places to stay until they could return to their homes.

Witnesses said police arrived on the scene around 3 p.m., reportedly to serve a warrant.

Negotiations dragged on for hours before gunfire erupted around 7:30 p.m., sending people running and screaming at the public housing project near Foose Elementary School at South 15th and Sycamore streets.

“Cop down!” an officer shouted as he ran down the sidewalk. “Get an ambulance here now!”

As they tried to negotiate with the suspect, police ordered onlookers inside their apartments. However, many people continued to stand outside on their lawns watching everything unfold. Others watched from inside their homes.

“We live in the ’hood,” said one woman who declined to give her name. “We don’t worry about gunshots.”

Some of the displaced residents grew restless as the standoff continued through a steady, cold rain. Electricity to part of the complex was shut off around 9 p.m.

At one point, the suspect asked for cigarettes and to speak with his mother.

“You said you were going to come down,” police told the suspect through a loudspeaker. “Now man up!”

“I know you can hear me. Now man up!” he repeated.

After the first round of gunfire erupted, a police officer yelled to onlookers: “Go home! You don’t want to get shot, do you?”

Around 9:20 p.m., there were a half-dozen more shots, followed by what sounded like a series of fireworks. Police also threw flash-bang grenades and tear gas into the apartment.

Around 10:30, about nine more gunshots were heard. Shortly before 11 p.m., a tactical unit truck arrived and officers unloaded a robot, which went into the apartment.