A man was killed early Sunday when his car went into Kiwanis Lake in York following a police chase, according to state police. Hector Gonzalez, 31, of York, was spotted driving erratically along Route 30 near Pennsylvania Avenue just after 3 a.m. Sunday, investigators said.Troopers said they attempted to stop Gonzalez but he took off, heading south on Pennsylvania Avenue.Gonzalez eventually lost control of the car, hit a curb, and then a tree before landing in Kiwanis Lake, state police said.He was pronounced dead at the scene. Gonzalez was a 2000 graduate of William Penn High School.Court documents show that a warrant had been issued for Gonzalez in August for his arrest. The court report said Gonzalez didn't show up for trial on several charges, including reckless endangering.City officials say there was no environmental damage to Kiwanis Lake as result to the crash.Crews had to drain 5 million gallons of water from the lake to get the victim's body. The city is hoping heavy rain will help replenish the lake on Tuesday.Before they replenish the water, crews will remove debris from the bottom of the lake.Officials are asking people to stay out of the lake.

A man was killed early Sunday when his car went into Kiwanis Lake in York following a police chase, according to state police.

Hector Gonzalez, 31, of York, was spotted driving erratically along Route 30 near Pennsylvania Avenue just after 3 a.m. Sunday, investigators said.

Advertisement

Troopers said they attempted to stop Gonzalez but he took off, heading south on Pennsylvania Avenue.

Gonzalez eventually lost control of the car, hit a curb, and then a tree before landing in Kiwanis Lake, state police said.



He was pronounced dead at the scene.



Gonzalez was a 2000 graduate of William Penn High School.

Court documents show that a warrant had been issued for Gonzalez in August for his arrest. The court report said Gonzalez didn't show up for trial on several charges, including reckless endangering.

City officials say there was no environmental damage to Kiwanis Lake as result to the crash.

Crews had to drain 5 million gallons of water from the lake to get the victim's body. The city is hoping heavy rain will help replenish the lake on Tuesday.

Before they replenish the water, crews will remove debris from the bottom of the lake.

Officials are asking people to stay out of the lake.

