Steven Henderson crash

Steven Henderson Jr. of Steelton was sentenced Tuesday for causing a June 3, 2012 crash in Middletown that fatally injured a midstate motorcyclist.

(paul chaplin/patriot-news )

HARRISBURG — Steven A. Henderson Jr. faced a courtroom full of rage Tuesday nearly 18 months after he fatally injured a Highspire motorcyclist while leading police on a reckless high-speed chase through Middletown.

The family of 52-year-old Gregg Kisic, who died from injuries he suffered when Henderson's car slammed into his bike, held nothing back as Dauphin County Judge Deborah Essis Curcillo prepared to sentence Henderson, 28, to 10 to 20 years in state prison, plus 16 years of probation.

The tension and agony were palpable as Kisic's wife, Deborah, eyed the handcuffed and shackled Steelton man from a few feet away and let him have it.

"You really did a lot of damage to our family. You hurt us all," she said. "His son doesn't have a dad. I don't have a husband … You ruined our lives, and I hope you pay for it."

Henderson's sentence was more or less set under an agreement he reached in August when he pleaded guilty to charges including third-degree murder, drunken driving, homicide by vehicle while DUI, fleeing police and driving without a license.

The pursuit occurred just weeks after Henderson was released from state prison after serving time for another police chase.

Police said the June 3, 2012, chase and crash that killed Kisic began when Henderson knocked down a pedestrian with this car and fled. They said the pursuit through Steelton and Highspire and into Middletown hit speeds exceeding 120 mph.

A parade of Kisic's kin lambasted Henderson during Tuesday's hearing. They called him selfish and a "lowlife." Some vowed never to forgive him.

"There are both good and bad choices to be made on this earth," said Gregg Kisic's father, Eugene. "Obviously, you did not learn from your prior imprisonment how to make good choices."

"The holes that were left in our hearts will never completely heal," he added.

Eugene Kisic and others spoke of the ordeal of watching Gregg Kisic struggle for life for three weeks before he died a day after turning 52. Doctors had to amputate his left leg immediately after the crash.

"He is at peace now, but we will suffer for the rest of our lives," Eugene Kisic said.

"We watched Gregg die, thanks to your selfish and careless act," said Kisic's sister, Wendy. "Whatever [prison] time you get will never be enough to make up for what you've done."

She especially blasted Henderson for fleeing from the crash scene while her badly injured and bleeding brother screamed for help. Police said they had to run Henderson down on foot and shock him with a Taser to apprehend him.

Henderson's family, including Ann Henderson, the great-aunt who raised him for part of his life, cited Henderson's unsettled family situation and the January 2012 murder of his brother, Tyler, as factors in his lawbreaking.

Senior Assistant Public Defender Jessica Bush said Henderson's brother was fatally stabbed in California by his wife, who was sentenced to 4 to 7 years in prison for that slaying.

"Steven has to pay for what he's done," Ann Henderson said. "That doesn't mean I don't love him."

Bush said Henderson wanted to plead guilty in the case since the day she first met him.

Steven Henderson turned to face Kisic's relatives, when Curcillo gave him a chance to speak.

"I know you're going through a lot of pain and grief … I'm deeply sorry," he said. "I found the Lord and I pray every night that He brings you the peace and the understanding that I know you are seeking."

He choked up as he turned to his own family and said, "I know I put you guys in a hard situation."

"It's all right, Steven," one of his supporters replied.

Chief Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Gettle wasn't sympathetic.

"This defendant was given every opportunity [to reform] and had many wake-up calls," she said. "If he had just listened to them."

"He was the only one behind the wheel," Curcillo observed. "His actions speak louder than anything."