A Harrisburg man killed early Sunday after crashing his car into a tree in front of Harrisburg High School was remembered Sunday night as a loving husband, caring father and good friend.

Lewis "Tudd" Moore Jr.

, 25, died shortly after 2 a.m. Sunday in what family members called a police chase. State police spokeswoman Trooper Michelle Davis said Sunday night that it was not a pursuit. Harrisburg police are investigating.

State police followed a speeding car that appeared to have a missing wheel or a flat tire, city spokesman Robert Philbin said.

Moore’s car struck a parked car, swerved across the road and struck a tree in a residential neighborhood near Market Street and Hale Avenue, Philbin said. Moore was pronounced dead at the scene.

A neighbor who declined to give his name said he was awakened by a loud boom and looked outside to see a car wrapped around a tree and several state troopers and city police around it. He said police remained on the scene until the car was hauled away around 6 a.m.

“He was a good dude who never harmed nobody,” said Brandon Neely of Penbrook, Moore’s cousin. “He just got married and was so happy. He just wanted to take care of his family.”

By 6 p.m. Sunday, friends had erected a shrine consisting of candles, teddy bears, a statue of an angel, about two dozen balloons, pictures of Moore and posters on which people wrote farewell to the man they all called “Tudd.”

“Your last words to me were to be safe,” one person wrote. “You’re in heaven and you’re safe. Look after us, Tudd. We miss you.”

Despite a chilly wind, temperatures in the 50s and rain, a steady stream of friends visited the makeshift memorial, some weeping, some hugging, some expressing anger at the death and all remembering the man they loved.

“Tudd was at my home until about 10 p.m.,” said Lewis Garnett Moore Sr. of Harrisburg, the man’s father. “I got a call at 8 a.m. telling me my son is dead. Tudd was a good man, a guy who really took care of his three kids.”

Meosha Hughes of Harrisburg, Moore’s older sister, said the family was upset at the conflicting stories they received about the circumstances of her brother’s death.

“All I know is that his car was wrapped around that tree,” she said, pointing to a tall tree with bark scraped off. “The glass from the windows is up here,” she said, showing shards all around the sign for Harrisburg High School on the lawn. Her brother graduated from the school.

Meosha Hughes said that her brother worked as a cook in Hershey. She said he and his wife, Autumn Moore, have two sons and a daughter and were expecting twins in July.

“Tudd was a good brother, a good husband and a good dad,” she said. “He was a fun-loving guy who joked a lot and made people laugh.”

Neely recalled how he and Moore were on a baseball team together years ago in Hall Manor. He said Moore, a pitcher, was “a pretty good one.” He said Moore also enjoyed rap music.

Larry Warren Sr. of Harrisburg, Moore’s cousin, said that his cousin got married a few months ago and seemed to have his life together. He remembered Moore as a devoted father who “just tried to do things right. A whole lot of people loved him. I just can’t believe this happened.”

Tara Hughes of Harrisburg, another of Moore’s cousins, said she grew up with him. She recalled his generous, loving nature.

“I’ll miss Tudd’s smile,” she said, tears rolling down her cheeks. “I’ll miss him, too.”

Staff writer Jeff Frantz contributed to this report.