This post was contributed by a community member. The views expressed here are the author's own.

Crime & Safety Columbia Psychologist Questions Police Shooting of Son Dr. Joyce Hamilton Berry of Columbia questions the police's account of the shooting death of her son Daryl Berry at hands of Pennsylvania state trooper. Reply

Dr. Joyce Hamilton Berry’s son, Daryl Berry, was shot three times and killed by a Pennsylvania state trooper on a rural stretch of the Pennsylvania turnpike on March 6.

The police say Daryl Berry, 45, had gotten into an accident and was arguing with another driver when the trooper arrived, according to reports in Pennsylvania newspapers. Berry allegedly set his two Rottweiler dogs after the trooper. As the trooper fought off the dogs, Berry attacked the officer, striking him in the face with a metal flashlight, according to police. The trooper then shot Berry three times and killed him. The dogs were not injured. The officer was released from the hospital the same night.

But Daryl’s mother, who lives on Windharp Way in Columbia and was the first African-American woman to graduate from the University of Kentucky with a Ph.D., told Patch in an interview she was left with a number of questions after her son’s death. She said the Pennsylvania State Police have not provided her with information she requested, including the police report.

She said police told her the trooper’s dashboard video camera was malfunctioning when the shooting occurred. She said she was told it would not have recorded the incident anyway because it took place behind the officer’s car. She said the name of the officer who shot her son has been withheld. “I want to know what happened to my son,” said Dr. Berry, who has raised three children while maintaining a clinical psychology practice. “I want to know the circumstances. I want to know the truth.”

At the time of his death, Daryl was driving to his home in Cincinnati, where he owned a landscaping and handyman business. Daryl grew up in Columbia and later attended Tuskegee University. He received a degree in electrical engineering. He was not married and had no children. Dr. Berry said her son didn’t have a criminal record and she couldn’t remember him ever being in a fight. She said her son didn’t train his dogs to be aggressive and described one of them as being like Marmaduke, the genial Great Dane from the comic strip.

“Daryl was very unassuming,” said Dr. Berry, “He thought all people were basically good, not malicious.” Patch last week filed public information requests for police reports related to Berry’s death, as well as requests for 911 dispatches and witness statements. Police said Thursday it would take an extra 30 days to fill the request. Calls to Pennsylvania state police public information officers were not returned. Charles Saunders, a lawyer who is assisting Dr. Berry, said he talked to the trooper leading the state police’s investigation into the shooting but has not received additional information. Dr. Berry is also working with a private investigator in Pennsylvania.