LIZ SHEPARD AND BETH LEBLANC

TIMES HERALD

A Port Huron police vehicle reached speeds exceeding 99 mph on a sunny May afternoon.

It whipped past sidewalks infrequently peppered with pedestrians, past homes and the community college campus.

It slowed and then continued through intersections, sirens blaring, lights flashing, in pursuit of a vehicle that had reportedly just tried to run over a police officer.

The pursuit ended in a cloud of dust at Seventh and Water streets, the police arriving moments after the suspect had crashed her car into a car driving down Water Street.

The couple in the vehicle was taken to a hospital. Kelly Maertens was cuffed and taken to jail. She’ll spend four to 10 years in prison for the events of that day.

“She attempted to run over a police officer, and what she would do after that, we didn’t know,” Port Huron Police Capt. Jeff Baker said.

“Somebody with that mindset, that’s willing to run over a police officer, is also willing to run over a citizen, or a kid.”

Between 1979 and 2013, there have been more than 11,500 deaths during police pursuits in the country — 463 in Michigan.

Almost half of those killed have been bystanders or passengers in the fleeing vehicles.

Seven people have died in police chases in St. Clair County in that 34-year span — three bystanders, and four people in fleeing vehicles.

Sanilac County has had two fatal police pursuits within that period, both men — a 23-year-old killed in 1996 and a 19-year-old killed in 1982 — were in fleeing vehicles.

The Blue Water Area hasn’t had a fatal police pursuit in 14 years.

Police chiefs and public safety directors credit officers’ decision making and analysis of factors such as the alleged crime committed before the pursuit and location of the chase.

Lives lost

The most recent fatal chase in the area resulted in the death of an Almont couple, and the conviction of a Clinton Township man in their murders.

John Albert Gillis, now 50, will die in prison. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole in 2002.

In May 2001, Gillis fled police after getting caught breaking into an East China Township home.

A Michigan State Police trooper and a Marysville police officer chased him. He led them the wrong way on Interstate 94 and then Interstate 69. The chase ended east of Wadhams Road in Kimball Township where Gillis crashed his vehicle head-on into another.

Nicholas Ackerman, 62, and his wife, Gayle, 57, were killed.

Gillis had been convicted in 1999 of third-degree fleeing and eluding police in Macomb County, according to the state’s Offender Tracking Information System.

Considering all the factors

Police agencies won’t release the precise details of their chase policies because they don’t want potential criminals to know what factors will cause them to begin or end a pursuit.

There are a few factors, however, that are consistent among most departments.

Law enforcement officers are asked to consider certain factors, such as the type of crime the person is wanted for, weather conditions, road conditions or time of day.

“If it’s 3 o’clock in the afternoon on a school day that would probably be a significant factor in having us decide to terminate a pursuit,” said Lt. Tom Kish, post commander for the Michigan State Police Lapeer Post.

Kish said if a pursuit is initiated by another agency, a trooper could help with the pursuit if he or she were nearby.

“But if the lead agency terminated, we would terminate as well,” Kish said.

He said troopers receive extensive hands-on training at recruit school, and have regular online training after graduation.

Baker said Port Huron’s training and policy is focused on safety of bystanders.

He said officers initiate a pursuit, but supervisors will end one based on factors like location, time of day and the person’s offense. Baker emphasized pursuits are initiated by the driver who refuses to stop.

“People need to stop and take responsibility for their actions,” Baker said.

St. Clair County Sheriff Tim Donnellon said public safety is a key concern.

“We all live here, you don’t want to see anyone get hurt,” he said.

Donnellon said what type of incident spurred the chase is a key factor, and deputies and their supervisors have to weigh the dangers created by the chase against the dangers created by letting that person go.

“But nothing is too high that you wouldn’t terminate if they were doing absolutely suicidal things in an automobile ... you have to think fast and (ask), ‘can we justify what could happen next,’” he said.

Donnellon said a February chase that resulted in the apprehension of three individuals accused of robbing banks at gunpoint was a scenario where a police pursuit was necessary. Multiple law enforcement officers chased the suspects down Interstate 94 from near Marysville to Clinton Township.

“These are hardened, dangerous, habitual criminals who were armed, and it ended without a single injury,” he said.

The three suspects, all from Detroit, are scheduled to go to trial in September.

Marysville Public Safety Chief Tom Konik said officers consider many factors in determining to start and continue a pursuit, but the overriding concern should be public safety.

“That’s the thought process that we need to go to,” Konik said. “It always defaults to what’s in the best interest of public safety.”

Konik said while the decision to initiate a pursuit is made by the officer alone, the decision to continue one would be made in conjunction with a supervisor.

And the pursuit usually isn’t limited to the officer who initiates it, Konik said.

“Our agency, in and of itself, we may only initiate a couple pursuits a year,” Konik said. “But we’re involved in a few others because we try to get as many officers as possible in strategic locations to stop that pursuit.”

That’s been the case with at least four chases from the Blue Water Bridge in 2014.

All four chases were initiated when someone failed to stop or remain at the bridge when directed to do so. Help from additional law enforcement agencies was needed in all four of the chases.

A Feb. 9 chase that traveled from the Blue Water Bridge to St. Clair required assistance from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Michigan State Police, St. Clair Police Department and the St. Clair County Sheriff Department.

Ken Hammond, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said chases at the border usually are initiated when someone fled from or failed to stop at a port of entry.

Hammond said apprehending those people to ensure they’re inspected is paramount, and officers at the bridge will enlist help from Border Patrol agents and state and local agencies to make the apprehension.

“They’re definitely a force multiplier,” Hammond said, of additional federal, state and local agencies.

“If we have to we’d even call out our Air and Marine Division to have a visual of the vehicle.”

Sanilac County Sheriff Lt. Charlene Washkevich said pursuits are rare, and sometimes involve elderly drivers who don’t realize they need to stop. She said the initial crime is a big factor, as well as if the driver is a juvenile and road conditions.

Clay Township Police Chief Don Drake said police pursuit policies are part of officers’ monthly training.

“We always teach them to use their judgment, it always has potential to be dangerous out there,” Drake said.

While there are specific guidelines he didn’t want to release publicly, Drake said factors taken into consideration include where the chase is happening, weather conditions and what crime started the chase.

If someone has shot and killed someone, it raises the stakes on continuing a chase so as to protect the community from that person. If someone has a suspended license and an officer knows who he is, it’s not worth creating a more dangerous situation.

“Do I put my life and citizens’ lives in danger to pursue this vehicle?” Drake said has to be asked. “You have to take into (consideration) every factor that you can.”

Contact Liz Shepard at (810) 989-6273 or lshepard@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @lvshepard. Contact Beth LeBlanc at (810) 989-6259 or eleblanc@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @THBethLeBlanc. USA Today contributed to this report.