SOUTH HAVEN, Mich. (AP) -- Two carjackings and a police chase ended in the suicide of a 17-year-old suspect, authorities say.

Sgt. John Rush of the Kankakee County (Ill.) Sheriff's Department identified the dead teen as Adrian Woodard of Bradley, Ill. Two other youths -- a 14-year-old Bradley boy and a 17-year-old Michigan boy -- were in custody facing charges.

Rush said the crime spree started early Sunday in the Kankakee County city of Bourbonnais. He said Woodard and the 14-year-old pointed guns at a woman as she stood near her car at the entrance to a mobile home park and took her vehicle.

At some point Sunday, the Michigan boy joined the Illinois teens in the stolen car, which they drove to St. Joseph Township in Berrien County, authorities said. Early Monday, authorities say they stole a second car at gunpoint from a woman as she was leaving it to enter her workplace, Bosch Braking Systems.

The teens ordered the woman to move over into the passenger's seat. As the two cars started to pull away, she jumped out of her vehicle and went to the company's security office to call the police, said St. Joseph Township police Officer Rick Knapp.

The woman was treated for minor cuts and bruises at Lakeland Hospital in St. Joseph, police said. Authorities withheld the names of the carjacking victims.

Police soon located the cars and gave chase. The cars split up, and the 14-year-old was arrested shortly after abandoning the one he was driving, Bridgman police Chief Harry Lenardson told the South Bend (Ind.) Tribune.

Meanwhile, Woodard and the other 17-year-old were abandoning the vehicle they were driving and trying to steal another car when police spotted them and chased them on foot, state police Sgt. Tom Tanczos said. They ran into a wooded area near a church and allegedly were trying to take a fourth vehicle when police spotted them again, and they again ran into the woods.

Police surrounded the area and ordered the teens out of the woods. As they were coming out, Woodard apparently shot himself, The Herald-Palladium of St. Joseph said.

``It was a real tragedy,'' Tanczos said. ``We're all sitting here dumbfounded that he would do that.''

Police said officers did not fire any shots at any time.

A telephone message seeking information about whether charges had been filed against the two surviving suspects was left Tuesday at the office of Berrien County Prosecutor James Cherry.