ROBERT STEIN

A police officer shot and killed a 35-year-old man Tuesday evening at the Nelson Street Apartments just west of the Tri-State Fairgrounds, according to the Amarillo Police Department.

Police killed Jason Magana Herrera after he resisted arrest and pointed a handgun at officers, according to a department news release.

The shooting happened after officers went to the apartments near Southeast Seventh Avenue and South Nelson Street at 6:07 p.m. to investigate a domestic violence incident involving a man trespassing there.

Police attempted to detain Herrera in the parking lot when he began fighting officers. The officers tried to control Herrera using a Taser, the release said, but he pulled the Taser probes out and broke free from the officers.

Herrera pulled out a handgun, ran a short distance away from officers, then turned and pointed it at officers. "One officer fired his handgun to protect both officers," the news release said.

Herrera died at the scene. APD Public Information Officer Jeb Hilton did not say if Herrera fired at officers. No officers were injured, Hilton said.

Police cordoned off a grassy alleyway running between the side of the apartment complex and a fence, where Herrera's body was lying on the ground. A small "No Trespassing" sign was posted on a wall by the entrance to one end of the alleyway.

Members of the department's Special Crimes Unit, including Lt. Erick Bohannon, were at the scene Tuesday night, where residents were milling around. The SCU investigates all officer-involved shootings.

Ricardo Rodriguez, 18, said he lives at the Nelson Street Apartments and heard a nearby altercation.

"We were just laying down at our apartment, just a casual day," he said. "My brother came over and he said he seen a girl banging on the door and she's crying and screaming … I looked down to see who it was, and I heard, 'Lower your weapon! Everybody get back! Everybody get back!'"

Rodriguez said he then heard four or five gunshots, but police did not confirm the number.