KALAMAZOO, MI -- FBI statistics show that, between 2000 and 2010, one justifiable homicide was reported.

In fact, a review by the Kalamazoo Gazette and the MLive Media Group found eight cases where the Kalamazoo County Prosecutor’s Office ruled that a slaying was done in self-defense and did not issue murder charges.

Feb. 17, 2000, Augusta

James Douglas, 20, was shot and killed by Portage Police Detective Larry Napp after he opened fire on Napp in the 200 block of West Clinton Street in Augusta. Napp, who was wounded four times, later recovered. At the time, Douglas was wanted for questioning in a string of burglaries.

May 2, 2001, Portage

Xianqing Cao, 37, was shot and killed at his home by Portage police officer Gregory Burke and Sgt. Jack Bogema after he opened fire on the officers. Burke was struck three times – twice in his protective vest and once in the leg. The shooting occurred after a police detective and two child protective services workers came to Cao’s home to investigation allegations that Cao, an immigrant from China, had sexually assaulted his two stepdaughters.

Nov. 28, 2001, Portage

Mark Ashley, 44, was shot and killed by Portage police officer Glen Patterson after Ashley threatened Patterson with a knife. At the time of the incident, Patterson was attempting to serve a probation-violation warrant for Ashley’s arrest at Ashley’s house on Wrenbury Street.

Sept. 30, 2004, Kalamazoo

John Gill, 51, was shot and killed at Madiera Apartments on East Cork Street by Kalamazoo Public Safety Sgt. Stacey Geik. The shooting occurred while Geik was investigating a suspected arson at Gill’s apartment and Gill refused orders to put down a loaded handgun that he raised at Geik.

Jan. 3, 2005, Kalamazoo Township

Patrice Streeter, 22, was stabbed to death by her domestic partner inside the home the two women shared on Boardman Street in Kalamazoo Township. Police and prosecutors found that the incident occurred as Streeter was threatening the other woman with a knife and was stabbed in the chest.

Oct. 2, 2005, Charleston Township

Mark Reinhold, 38, who was wanted for attempted murder in the Detroit area and had been featured on “America’s Most Wanted,” was shot and killed near Cold Brook County Park in Charleston Township by a Kalamazoo County sheriff’s deputy and a Michigan State Police trooper.

Jan. 29, 2009, Alamo Township

John Stafford Jr. 40, was shot and killed by his brother-in-law, David Uminn, 53, at Uminn’s home in the 6000 block of West C Avenue. Police and prosecutors said Stafford had threatened Uminn and Uminn’s family and was trying to break into Uminn’s house when he was fatally shot.

March 6, 2009, Kalamazoo

Bernel Gordon Jr., 20, was shot to death at Fox Ridge Apartments by Frank Pierce, 35, of Kalamazoo. Prosecutors determined that Pierce was justified in killing Gordon, at the time defending himself against an armed robbery and assault.

Contact Rex Hall Jr. at

. Follow him on

.