A federal civil rights investigation into the June 2017 fatal shooting of Aaron Bailey, an unarmed black motorist, will not lead to criminal charges.

U.S. Attorney Josh Minkler made the announcement in a press release Friday, citing insufficient evidence that Indianapolis police officers violated Bailey’s constitutional rights.

Satchuel Cole, a local activist and a friend of the Bailey family, told IndyStar that she learned of the decision following a 1 p.m. meeting between the family and Minkler's office.

Cole said the prosecutor's decision was difficult for Erica Bailey, the daughter of Aaron Bailey.

"Those officers are never, ever, ever going to pay for what they did. And that's just really difficult to stomach," Cole said. "And we know that this was the last hope at getting that justice and it's not going to happen."

More:Fallout from merit board's Aaron Bailey decision ripples across Indianapolis

More:After criticism, Hogsett drops 3 appointees who reinstated officers who shot Aaron Bailey

The FBI, which led the investigation, referred questions to Minkler's office. Through a spokeswoman, Minkler declined comment beyond the press release.

Bailey, 45, was shot and killed June 29, 2017, by two Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department officers following a late-night traffic stop and brief vehicle pursuit that ended in Bailey crashing his vehicle.

The officers, Michal P. Dinnsen and Carlton J. Howard, fired 11 shots into the side and back of the vehicle. They said they saw Bailey reaching toward the center console, where they feared a gun may have been stored.

Four of the rounds struck Bailey in the back. No gun was found. His death inflamed tensions among local police and concerned citizens who saw Bailey's death as an act of injustice that threatened the legitimacy of the police department.

Rick Snyder, president of the Fraternal Order of Police, was not immediately available for an interview Friday afternoon because he was organizing a peace walk in response to last weekend's violence.

In prior interviews with IndyStar, though, Snyder has spoken about how Dinnsen and Howard experienced "every officer's worst nightmare."

"The Bailey family continues on with their loss and their grief," Snyder said last year. "But these officers and their families will have this for the rest of their lives, as well."

The FBI opened a review in July 2017 and turned over the case to Minkler's office sometime before February of this year.

Minkler concluded he could not prove the officers “used force that was objectively unreasonable” and “acted with the specific intent to do something that the law forbids,” which would have been the standard for prosecuting the case, according to the statement from the U.S. attorney's office.

Minkler's decision marks the latest development in a case that has been reviewed several times.

A special prosecutor previously cleared both officers of criminal charges. An internal investigation by IMPD, though, led to the extraordinary step of IMPD Chief Bryan Roach attempting to fire Dinnsen and Howard.

The Civilian Police Merit Board rejected Roach's recommendation and restored both officers to IMPD, prompting an outcry from several prominent African-American groups, including the Indianapolis Urban League, Indiana Black Expo and Indiana Black Legislative Caucus.

Last June, Bailey's family reached a civil settlement with the city for $650,000.

"A lot of people have a lot of comments to say about Erica, especially after the settlement, but I think it will just take time," Cole said. "I can't even imagine what it feels like to have your parent become a hashtag and never being able to grieve in private because everything she does is judged by others."

Erica Bailey did not immediately return an IndyStar message on Friday afternoon.

In addition to his public statements about the federal investigation and the shooting, Roach pushed for several changes at IMPD that are ongoing, including training all officers to recognize implicit bias and creating a position focused on boosting diversity among the rank-and-file.

Through a spokesman, Roach declined comment for this story.

This year IndyStar is deeply examining the level of violence in Indianapolis: why it is occurring, what is being done about it and what may inspire solutions. The project, called The Toll, also includes a weekly email newsletter. Subscribe for free at indystar.com/thetoll.

Contact IndyStar reporter Ryan Martin at 317-444-6294 or ryan.martin@indystar.com. Follow him on Facebook or Twitter: @ryanmartin

Contact IndyStar reporter James Briggs at 317-444-6307. Follow him on Twitter: @JamesEBriggs