NORFOLK

A 39-year-old military veteran, who was high on methamphetamine and claimed his wife had hired men to assassinate him, already had shot a police sergeant in the chest when officers killed him, Norfolk’s chief prosecutor said Tuesday.

So Officers Jesse Amos, a five-year veteran, and Arturo Garcia, a two-year veteran, were justified when they fired at Tyson Chad Williams, Commonwealth’s Attorney Greg Underwood told Norfolk police Chief Larry Boone in a letter dated Friday and made public Tuesday.

About an hour and a half before the shooting, Williams had holed up in a vacant apartment in the 9600 block of 14th Bay St.around 11:15 p.m. on July 2, Underwood said in his 10-page account of what happened.

Virginia State Police investigated the shooting and forwarded their findings to Norfolk’s chief prosecutor to decide whether it was justified.

Officers went to the apartment after getting 911 calls about someone with a weapon, Underwood said. When they arrived, several people told them a man had two handguns and claimed people “were trying to kill him.”

Officers surrounded the place and tried to talk with Williams. One person who lived in the apartment building later told authorities he’d seen someone he didn’t recognize and asked him why he was there.

Williams replied that “he was on the run from some men that his wife had hired to hunt him down.”

He then tried to give the resident a handgun, Underwood said. The resident said he didn’t want it, and Williams told him he had two on him.

When the resident said he shouldn’t be hanging around, Williams climbed into a vacant apartment by standing on a bucket and going through a window, Underwood said. The woman who’d been staying there had been evicted.

Police quickly determined Williams was a suspect in a burglary of a nearby marina earlier in the day in which two handguns were stolen, Underwood said.

During the standoff, Sgt. Donald Burns jury-rigged a body cam onto a pole in order to surveil the apartment and Williams, Underwood said. As Burns tried to check out the back of the apartment between midnight and 12:15, Williams shot Burns in the center of his chest with a bullet that would’ve probably killed the 42-year veteran if his bulletproof vest hadn’t stopped it, Underwood said.

Around 12:40 a.m., after nearly 11/2 hours of negotiations , Williams rushed from the back of the apartment to the front toward police, Underwood said.

Officers yelled “Stop!” and “Drop the gun!” When Williams didn’t, Amos fired his shotgun, and Garcia his Glock handgun, Underwood said.

Williams dropped to the floor but got up, moving toward the front door before falling with his back almost against the door, the prosecutor added. He died on scene.

Police found a .45-caliber handgun next to Williams and a .22-caliber pistol in the back bedroom, Underwood said. They were similar to the guns stolen earlier in the day from the marina, but investigators couldn’t confirm they were the same because the owner hadn’t kept a record of their serial numbers.

A medical examiner determined Williams died of a shotgun wound to the front torso. A toxicologist found amphetamine and methamphetamine in his blood, and a forensic scientist found gunshot residue on his hands.

Amos and Garcia have been on administrative duty since the shooting, Norfolk police spokesman Will Pickering said. They will continue in that role until an internal shooting review panel determines they followed department policies and procedures in firing their weapons.

Williams’ mother told investigators her son suffered from long-term mental health problems and a social worker had been assigned to him, Underwood said. Two days before the shooting, he told her that people staying in his house had “drugged him while he was asleep.”

One of Williams’ friends contacted State Police investigators to tell them Williams said his estranged wife had “hired a hitman to kill him,” Underwood said.

A social worker said she met with Williams on June 23, a week and a half before he died, and determined he needed mental health services but was not a danger to himself or others, the prosecutor said.

His wife said she was legally married to Williams but had moved to Ohio, Underwood said. She told investigators they had two young children together who were in foster care.

She said Williams had a long history of drug and mental health problems, Underwood said. Shortly before she left him, she said, he warned of an “upcoming civil war” and that “people were out to get him.”

A week before he was killed, Williams published a Facebook post warning people of the “Zionist plague that is a festering cancer upon this nation,” one that threatens “our sport, beliefs, and ideological way of life.”

He said he couldn’t say too much about the “‘red scourge’ that operates in dark alleys” but “THIS FIGHT IS REAL, IT IS LIFE AND DEATH. DO NOT THINK THAT YOU LIVE IN SAFETY, AND PEOPLE WILL NOT TRY And harm you. Be VIGILANT, AND ALWAYS READY TO FIGHT.”

His mother, Tricia Williams, responded with a comment: “Be careful Tyson. I love you.”

Jonathan Edwards, 757-598-3453, jonathan.edwards@pilotonline.com