Patrick "Chucky" Sanchez was partially handcuffed and grasping an unloaded handgun when he was shot dead by one of three Glendale police officers who were trying to hold him down, records show.

More than a year after the fatal incident, the Glendale Police Department has released redacted footage from the three officers' on-body cameras and a report detailing the investigation into Sanchez's death.

All three officers were cleared of any criminal wrongdoing in the shooting.

Sanchez, 23, was a suspect in an alleged hostage situation. Police had been called July 1, 2017, to an apartment complex near 81st and Glendale avenues on reports that a woman and her boyfriend, who is paralyzed, were being threatened by an armed man and a woman and not allowed to leave.

Sanchez had a history of drug, burglary and vehicle-theft convictions, a records search shows.

Sanchez's mother, Tracy, said Tuesday that she's pursuing legal action against the city and referred questions to her attorney, Jody Broaddus at the Attorneys for Freedom law firm.

Broaddus told The Arizona Republic she filed a notice of claim against Glendale and eventually sued the city through superior court to avoid missing filing deadlines. The case was later moved to federal court, Broaddus said.

"I have reviewed the videotape which is still very disturbing," Broaddus said. "You never want to see a human life taken in any way. But whether or not the police were justified? We're still exploring that."

Broaddus said it's early in the case and a trial likely won't occur until late next year.

Tracy had only one thing she wished to share:

"Don't judge my son," she told The Republic. "That's it."

Woman reports being threatened, held hostage

The woman who called 911 told dispatchers that Sanchez had threatened her and her boyfriend with a gun and a knife, police records show.

Body-camera footage shows officers meeting with Sanchez next to a car parked on the apartment complex's east side. He talks to officers while leaning against an open car door. Meanwhile, other officers interview the caller and another woman nearby.

Officer Joel Queenan tries to pat down Sanchez and asks him to put his hands and hat on the car's roof. In the police report, Queenan told investigators he pushed Sanchez to the ground after he saw his left hand move toward his waistband.

They were wrestling on the ground when Officer Badr Elkhannoussi allegedly spotted the silver portion of the gun starting to "come out," prompting him to point his own weapon at Sanchez, according to the police report.

Elkhannoussi, Queenan and Officer James Saylor all had the muzzles of their duty weapons pressed against Sanchez's head as they struggled with him, body-cam video shows. The three officers were on top of Sanchez as Saylor fought to hold onto Sanchez's wrist.

Sanchez can be seen repeatedly reaching for his ankle and telling police to shoot him during the altercation. In the police report, Saylor said he could feel Sanchez's hand gripping the gun. Investigators weren't sure if the gun had fallen from Sanchez's waistband to his ankle during the struggle.

Saylor began to lose his grip of Sanchez's left hand as they tussled. Someone can be heard yelling "shoot him" as, according to the police report, Sanchez ignored orders to drop the gun.

Elkhannoussi fired three shots into Sanchez's upper back.

The video shows an unresponsive Sanchez lying on the ground, a Beretta 380 handgun just feet from his motionless body.

Officers exonerated

Queenan can be heard yelling expletives as another officer tries to regain control of the situation. A witness lay in the fetal position, crying on the curb in the background.

Queenan ordered the 911 caller's boyfriend to step out of the vehicle he was sitting in. Officers helped him out of the car after he told them he was paralyzed.

The investigation began immediately after, with officers working to secure the apartment. No one was found inside.

Detectives interviewed the female suspect who had accompanied Sanchez to the apartment, but later released her when they didn't have enough evidence to establish her involvement. She has not been charged.

Sanchez's gun fell apart when an investigator tried to pick it up, the report said. There were no rounds in the chamber and the gun magazine was empty.

The Maricopa County Attorney's Office ruled late last year that Elkhannoussi's actions were justified.

Sanchez was one of 24 people shot dead by law enforcement in Maricopa County in 2017, according to the Maricopa County Attorney's Office. Police were involved in 43 shootings last year.