Chicago police investigate the scene where a man was shot and killed by police responding to a call of shots fired in the 2200 block of South Kostner Avenue on July 1, 2017, in the Lawndale neighborhood. (E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune)

Officers responding to a call of shots fired in the Lawndale neighborhood ended up in an "armed confrontation" with someone in a gangway and shot him to death, according to police.

The shooting happened in the 2200 block of South Kostner Avenue about 10:45 p.m., according to Glen Brooks, a community policing director for the Chicago Police Department who spoke at the scene.

Advertisement

Officers were responding to a person-with-a-gun call that was later updated to include information about shots being fired. Officers went down a gangway and encountered a man with a gun in the backyard, according to police, and an officer fired shots.

An AK-47 and a handgun were recovered at the scene, Brooks said. It's not clear if police recovered casings, but there was a shot-up car nearby, said Anthony Guglielmi, spokesman for the Chicago Police Department.

Advertisement

The shooting that prompted neighbors to call police may have stemmed from a feud between families on the block, Guglielmi said.

The officer who fired shots was an on-duty, uniformed Ogden District officer who was wearing a body camera, Police Department officials said.

Guglielmi said that he hadn't reviewed the body camera footage but that the city's Independent Police Review Authority would be investigating the use of force.

The man shot by police was taken to Mount Sinai Hospital and died there, Brooks said. Police did not release his age.

About midnight, a group of people gathered outside the emergency entrance of Mount Sinai Hospital as they waited to hear if it was their relative who had been wounded by police. They did not yet have any details about what happened.

After the shooting, police closed Kostner Avenue and the alley east of Kostner between Cermak Road and Ogden Avenue. Officers summoned a "light wagon" to the alley near where investigators focused their work.

Check back for more information.