Here’s what we know about a bloody chain of alleged events that led a Cincinnati man to a fatal encounter with a state trooper in Vandalia early Tuesday:

» RELATED: Homicide suspect shot, killed by state trooper in Vandalia

Patrol car rammed: During a routine traffic stop, an Ohio State Highway Patrol trooper's patrol car was rammed shortly after 1 a.m. Tuesday by another vehicle not involved in the initial stop on U.S. 40 near Ranch View Drive in Vandalia.

Allegedly bloody, brandishing a knife: The man who crashed into the trooper's car exited a white Chevrolet Cruze while covered in blood and brandishing a knife, said Lt. Robert Sellers of the Ohio State Highway Patrol.

Trooper fires shot: After the man disregarded verbal commands and lunged at the trooper with the knife extended, the trooper fired once at the man in the McDonald's restaurant parking lot, Sellers said.

Dead at scene: The man identified as Dana D. Dubose, 36, of Cincinnati, died at the scene.

Fleeing from alleged crime scene: Sellers said Wednesday that Dubose was fleeing an earlier crime scene in Springfield Twp., Hamilton County. Officers found Princess Brown, 32, dead with stab wounds at 11:58 p.m. Monday on the floor of a Murat Court home where the two lived with a child.

History of domestic violence: Four women have been granted at least eight protection orders against Dubose since 2001, according our Cincinnati news partner WCPO. Hamilton County court records reviewed by the station also show Dubose was sentenced at least twice on domestic violence complaints. Dubose was most recently sentenced to two years in prison in 2015 for domestic violence and weapons while under disability for kicking down a door, grabbing a woman's neck and threatening to kill her. He was on parole after being released from prison Feb. 15, 2016.

Trooper yet to be ID'd: The trooper, who sustained a minor head injury, will not will not be identified until the incident is reviewed by the Montgomery County Prosecutor's office, Sellers said. The trooper is on administrative leave.