In the summer of 2005, ex-health care worker Miosotis Familia switched jobs to join the NYPD. And ex-con Alexander Bonds continued his criminal ways with an armed robbery bust.

A dozen years later, their divergent paths crossed at 12:30 a.m. on a dingy Bronx block where Bonds wordlessly executed the cop as she wrote in a police logbook.

Advertisement

The Wednesday assassination came without provocation or apparent motive, other than Bonds' long-held grudge against law enforcement and the paranoid schizophrenia his girlfriend told cops he suffered from.

Familia, a 48-year-old mother of three, was shot in the head at point-blank range, just a half-hour into her midnight tour, at E. 183rd St. and Creston Ave. in Fordham Heights.

Advertisement

NYPD Officer Miosotis Familia, 48, was shot and killed in the Bronx Wednesday. The suspect, Alexander Bonds, 34, died in a gun battle with police. (FDNY via Facebook)

"Shots fired!" the dying officer's partner screamed within seconds of the gunshot. "I need a f---ing bus! 10-85 10-85! My partner's shot! My partner's shot! My partner's shot! Hurry up, Central!"

Bonds, dressed completely in black with a dark hoodie pulled over his head, died in a 20-shot police fusillade after the cop-killer pointed his stolen .38-caliber revolver at two responding officers.

"He pulled his gun on them, and they shot him," said a police source.

A bystander took a stray police bullet in the stomach during the confrontation just a block from the murder scene.

NYPD Commissioner James O'Neill, in a message to his 35,000 officers, called the cold-blooded execution "a direct attack" on his department.

"Make no mistake, Officer Familia was murdered for her uniform and for the responsibility she embraced," said O'Neill.

Video showed Bonds, 34, striding "with purpose" toward an unsuspecting Familia as she sat in the passenger's seat of a mobile command center — an RV-sized truck.

"The manner of his dress and his approach to the vehicle indicated an intent to commit a violent crime," said a police source.

Advertisement

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 40 Emotions ran high as members of the NYPD and the public honored fallen officer Miosotis Familia with flowers and tributes at a memorial outside the 46th Police Precinct on July 6, 2017. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images)

The video caught the shooter crossing the street toward the parked vehicle, disappearing from view — and then sprinting from the scene seven seconds later.

In between, he fired a single shot through the passenger's-side window. Bonds' silver murder weapon, recovered at the scene, was reported stolen in West Virginia five years ago, and investigators planned a trip south as part of the probe.

"What can I say?" asked the slain cop's brother-in-law Carlos Corporan. "The family are devastated. Great family, the best you can think of. They're devastated."

Familia, who had suffered a leg injury in 2014, was working steady midnight shifts in her Bronx precinct in hopes of spending more time with her family during the day.

Police investigate the scene where a cop was shot inside a mobile command post (at left) at E. 183rd St. and Creston Ave. The block "is the worst block in the Bronx," two commanders told a police source. The NYPD truck was parked there 24/7. (James Keivom/New York Daily News)

She was assigned to the command post vehicle, which was brought to the location after a March triple shooting, sources said.

The block at E. 183rd St. and Creston Ave. "is the worst block in the Bronx," two commanders told a police official. The NYPD truck was parked there 24/7.

Advertisement

Cops identified the wounded bystander as Auscensio Bautista, 28, who lives on the same block. Familia's partner, who escaped uninjured, was the only other occupant of the vehicle.

Alexander Bonds' girlfriend told police that he suffered from paranoid schizophrenia and was "off his meds and acting irrational and erratic" earlier in the night Tuesday. (NYDOC)

Familia, assigned to the 46th Precinct, died around 3:30 a.m. at St. Barnabas Hospital. A line of police saluted the fallen officer outside the hospital as her body was taken to the medical examiner's office.

Some of Familia's nine siblings were awakened with the horrific news.

Familia "gave her life protecting a neighborhood that had been plagued by gang gun violence," said police union head Patrick Lynch. "As we mourn her death and support her family ... we ask for your help.

The suspect fired a revolver (pictured) one time at the mobile police unit, with a bullet striking the officer in an "unprovoked attack." ( DCPI)

"Violence against police officers cannot stand."

The shooting was reminiscent of the December 2014 assassination of two officers as they sat in their marked police car on a Brooklyn street.

Advertisement

Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos were targeted by a gunman who had posted anti-police messages on his social media feeds in the days before the shooting.

The body of NYPD Officer Miosotis Familia, 48, was transported to the city Medical Examiner just after 5:30 a.m. (Jefferson Siegel/New York Daily News)

"Hopefully, this is an isolated event. However, as we have experienced in the past, an incident such as this could spark and encourage copy-cat events," said Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association.

Familia's mourning Bronx precinct stationhouse was covered in purple-and-black bunting. Cops and local residents left flowers or lit candles on the steps, and a large red-and-white wreath wrapped in purple ribbons was placed outside the entrance.

Police investigate the scene at E. 183 St. in the Bronx on Wednesday. (Susan Watts/New York Daily News)

O'Neill and Mayor de Blasio paid an afternoon condolence call, leaving the station without speaking to reporters. About a dozen uniformed and plainclothes cops had earlier gathered in a circle outside to hold hands and say a prayer with a priest.

Moments earlier, an interfaith chaplain led a separate prayer inside the stationhouse for Familia's colleagues and friends.

"It's just a sad, sad day," said Chaplain Jean Bryan.

Advertisement

NYPD motorcade transports slain officer Miosotis Familia, 48, from St. Barnabas Hospital where she died early Wed morning. pic.twitter.com/vzYIacrncL — Adam Shrier (@adamshrier) July 5, 2017

Bonds' criminal rap sheet dates to the turn of the century, including a 2001 beating of a Queens cop who was bashed with fists and brass knuckles.

Bonds was arrested five other times, including on drug possession and drug sales charges in the Bronx and Queens, sources said. A May 2001 bust came for peddling drugs on school property.

He was paroled in 2013 after serving seven years for an armed robbery in Syracuse, according to state records.

Bonds, who boasted up to six aliases, recently vented angrily about law enforcement on Facebook.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 3 A line of police officers salute as the body of Police Officer Famila Miosotis, 48, arrives at the Medical Examiner's office early on Wednesday, July 5, 2017. (Jefferson Siegel/New York Daily News)

His girlfriend told cops she called 911 twice earlier in the night Tuesday because Bonds was "off his meds and acting irrational and erratic," a source said. Bonds' girlfriend also told cops he had visited a psychiatrist in June and said he was paranoid and acted nervous and anxious around cops.

The scene in the Bronx became somewhat surreal, with Fourth of July fireworks still lighting up the sky as hundreds of heavily armed cops descended on the streets below.

Advertisement

"The city was celebrating our Independence Day," said de Blasio after arriving at the Bronx hospital. "One of those days we look forward to each year. The NYPD did an extraordinary job keeping our city safe ... and tragedy struck."

High School yearbook photo of Miosotis Familia (Obtained by Daily News)

Eyewitnesses reported hearing gunshots before the neighborhood spiraled into chaos.

Witness Jay Marzelli, standing inside a bodega, initially thought the gunshot that killed Familia was a holiday firecracker.

"All of a sudden, there was all this running and stuff going on, and I look out, probably 40, 50, 60 cops screaming, 'Call a paramedic, clear the block!'" he said.

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

To donate to the Daily News' fund for Miosotis Familia's family with credit card or PayPal, go to nydn.us/FamiliaFund or send payments electronically to Daily News Charities, account number 9387-575-837, routing number 021-000-322 or make checks payable to Daily News Charities, Inc. and mail to:

POLICE OFFICER MIOSOTIS FAMILIA FUND

Advertisement

New York Daily News

4 New York Plaza

New York, NY 10004

Attn: Daily News Charities

With Esha Ray, Adam Shrier, Rocco Parascandola, Graham Rayman, John Annese, Denis Slattery, NICOLE HENSLEY