LOU MUMFORD South Bend Tribune

South Bend Tribune

DOWAGIAC — The intentions of a former student at Dowagiac Middle School who showed up at the school early Monday with a loaded handgun perhaps will never be known.

What is known is the 13-year-old student, Darren James Price, ran into a wooded area east of the school at 57072 Riverside Drive shortly after he was spotted by a custodian and, a short time later, took his own life. The incident prompted a lockdown at the school, which was empty of students when the tragedy occurred, and the cancellation of classes at other Dowagiac public schools as well.

Authorities said at a pair of news conferences Monday morning that they didn’t know if the youth planned to shoot people at the school.

“We may never know why,’’ Dowagiac Public Safety Director Tom Atkinson said.

Atkinson said Darren, who according to school Superintendent Mark Daniel was a sixth-grader at the middle school last year but was home-schooled this school year, was acting strangely when the custodian noticed him outside the school about 6:40 a.m. Observing what appeared to be a handgun, the custodian notified the principal, who attempted to make contact with Darren only to see the youth run into the wooded area, Atkinson said.

After police set up a perimeter, a Cass County sheriff’s deputy saw the armed youth emerge from the woods on a trail near Daily Road, north of Mathews. When the teen spotted the deputy about the same instant, Atkinson said, he ran back up the trail .

Moments later, the officer heard a single gunshot. He found Darren lying on the side of the trail and administered first-aid before the teen was rushed to Borgess-Lee Memorial Hospital. Efforts to save his life were unsuccessful, Atkinson said.

Darren had obtained the weapon from his residence in Dowagiac, Atkinson said, adding it contained three rounds, including the one that caused the fatal wound. From what authorities were able to learn from family members, Darren had no experience with firearms, the public safety director said.

Atkinson told The Tribune in a follow-up telephone call Monday that the youth’s motive was still a mystery.

“I wish we had a reason,’’ he said.

He then was asked about the weapon’s limited ammunition and the possibility of a school shooting scenario.

“If it was, it was a poorly conceived plan,’’ he said.

Deputy Dowagiac Schools Superintendent Dawn Conner, a former principal at Kincheloe Elementary School, said she remembered Darren from his days as a second-grade student at Kincheloe. She said there was no indication then of any problems.

“He was very nice, polite, a good kid,’’ she said.

Daniel said schools would reopen today with counselors present to talk to students who request it.

Extra police officers were expected to be on hand as well as an additional security measure.

Despite indications the youth acted on his own, Cass County Prosecutor Victor Fitz said investigation is continuing. He asked that anyone with information that might be helpful contact a tip line at 1-800-462-9328.

Staff writer Lou Mumford: lmumford@sbtinfo.com 269-687-3551