SAGINAW, MI -- LaTerrika Swearengen could hardly hold back her tears as she recalled the events of Monday night, when a hospital called to tell her she needed to be there soon as police officers stood in her kitchen and delivered some devastating news.

She had been trying to reach her boyfriend, Glen Shepard, for a few hours before the police arrived early Tuesday, May 19, but his phone went to voicemail. Shepard, a local tattoo artist, was out riding a motorcycle he got just two days before.

"We just got the motorcycle on Sunday evening," Swearengen said. "I recorded him yesterday popping a wheelie."

Swearengen said the last time she talked to Shepard, "he said he will be home. He hung up."

about 11:30 p.m. Monday on Williamson near Tausend in the city of Saginaw. They tried to initiate a traffic stop.

The cyclist, later identified as Shepard, did not stop, and a police pursuit ensued, authorities allege.

At the corner of Williamson and South Washington, Shepard lost control and was thrown from the motorcycle after striking a fence and building, police said.

He was taken to St. Mary's of Michigan hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Swearengen lives just blocks away from the crash location. She recalled getting the call from the hospital.

"The lady told me that I need to get to the hospital," she said. "The police then told me he had (died), and I said, 'No he didn't,' because I had just got off the phone with him."

Swearengen said she still has questions about the police chase involving Shepard.

Tattoo artist

Shepard, 39, was a well-known Saginaw tattoo artist who went by the moniker "Red." He didn't have his own shop, but would use his equipment to tattoo people at parties organized by others.

"His artwork is amazing," Swearengen said.

Rosemary Dugan, 34, received her first tattoo about eight years ago. It paid homage to her mother, who had died a few years prior.

Dugan recalls the day her son's father told her he knew of a guy really good at doing tattoos, so she went with him to "check Red out."

"He had a bunch of people there, so I knew something had to be legit," Dugan said. "He was nice, and he introduced himself to me. I watched him do about six or seven tattoos before it was my turn.

"When it was my turn, I sat down, and I was talking to my son's father, and I didn't feel a thing. By the time I looked down to see the tattoo, he was finished."

Dugan now has eight tattoos, including a tribute to her son, dad and deceased brother, all created by him.

"He made sure that what you got was what you wanted," she said. "I still have three that he did last week that are still healing."

Swearengen said it was the kind of love shown by everyone he tattooed.

"He was loved by the community," Swearengen said.

Adventurous spirit

The couple had been together close to three years, she said, and had seven children between them.

"He has five kids. I have two," Swearengen said.

Swearengen said that Shepard was adventurous and a daredevil.

"Once he set his mind to it, he just did it," she said.

Police said the crash remains under investigation.

Bob Johnson is a reporter for MLive/The Saginaw News. Contact him at 989-395-3295, by email at

or follow him on

,

or

.