Tom Greenwood, and Charles E. Ramirez

AP

A Macomb Township family is reeling after losing both of their sons in automobile crashes within the last three months.

Ryan Tsatsos died after being struck by a hit-and-run driver as he walked to his residence hall at Central Michigan University in Mount Pleasant about midnight Saturday.

A freshman at the university, Tsatsos, 18, was walking with friends when he was struck as he and friends walked along Crawford, near Concourse, south of the CMU campus.

On July 26, Ryan’s older brother, Darryl Tsatsos, 19, died in a three-car crash on Hayes near 21 Mile in Macomb Township. According to police, Darryl Tsatsos crashed his Pontiac G6 after a Macomb County Sheriff’s deputy tried to pull him over for speeding about 1:25 a.m.

The deputy had broken off the chase but moments later, he arrived at a crash scene. An investigation of the crash showed that Darryl Tsatsos’ vehicle had collided with a Dodge Ram pickup and a GMC Terrain SUV.

The driver of the SUV was unhurt; the driver of the pickup received minor injuries. Darryl died at a local hospital.

Ryan and Darryl were the only children of Paul and Julie Tsatsos.

“No arrests have been made yet in the death of Ryan Tsatsos,” Michigan State Police Sgt. Kim Vetter said Monday. “We are following up on tips. We are aware that the family lost their other son three months ago. This is a terribly tragic situation.”

According to police, the vehicle that struck Ryan is described as a dark, older four-door model. The vehicle, which will likely have damage to the front passenger side, was last seen fleeing north on Crawford.

According to police, the stretch of road where Ryan was walking has no streetlights or sidewalks.

“Plus it was dark and rainy that night, so it can be hard to see people,” Vetter said. “The area isn’t really on campus. It’s between on- and off-campus housing. It’s a residential area and students traverse it all the time.”

A gofundme fundraiser has been set up to help Ryan’s family with funeral expenses. As of Monday morning, more than 160 people had contributed $8,600 toward a goal of $10,000.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Michigan State Police Mount Pleasant post at (989) 773-5951 or Isabella County Central Dispatch at (989) 773-1000.

tgreenwood@detroitnews.com

(313) 222-2023