OTTAWA COUNTY, MI - The motorcyclist who fled Michigan State Police troopers from Muskegon County into the city of Ferrysburg before fatally crashing on June 4, 2015, was "the cause of his own death," an official said this week.

The Ottawa County Prosecutor's Office reviewed the Michigan State Police report involving the fatal motorcycle crash that occurred after a police pursuit lasting 4.8 miles from Muskegon into the city of Ferrysburg.

Ottawa County Assistant Prosecuting Attorney Greg Babbitt said his office reviewed the report and found the accident was not the result of any wrongdoing on the part of the troopers pursuing him.

"I reviewed the matter. It was pretty clear the motorcycle was going too fast and lost control and was the cause of his own death, unfortunately," Babbitt said.

"That case is closed. Our office reviewed the incident report from the Michigan State Police and concluded the motorcyclist caused the accident and no charges were warranted."

Family members of Meloche were contacted, but did not comment for the story.

Michigan State Police troopers from the Rockford post tried to make a traffic stop of the 2014 Yamaha motorcycle for a traffic violation on Grand Haven Road near Sternberg Road in Norton Shores, police had said.

The driver, Raymond Melvin Meloche Jr., 25, accelerated to a high speed and fled south from Muskegon County into Ottawa County, police said. Grand Haven Road is called 174th Avenue in Ottawa County.

Meloche died of a critical head injury he suffered in the crash that ended when Meloche lost control of his motorcycle on rough pavement as the road, 174th Avenue, curved to the left, Babbitt said.

"That location had a lot of areas where there were pot holes and the roadway itself wasn't very smooth. They are fixing that area and maybe because of that incident itself," Babbitt said. "It was time to smooth out that curb. The driver lost control and hit the pole."

Dash cam video obtained by MLive/Muskegon Chronicle shows the motorcycle lose control at the curve and crash into the curb at Carmen Drive. Pieces of concrete are seen on the video breaking into pieces before Meloche and the motorcycle end up near a power pole. Troopers at the scene and other first-responders attempt to save the man by administering chest compressions, the video shows.

As part of the investigation, Babbitt said neighbors in the area were interviewed and implied that the police pursuing Meloche acted accordingly.

"The incident report itself indicates individuals who lived in that area were interviewed and none of the people in the neighborhood said the officer did anything abnormal," Babbitt said. "It was the motorcyclist who came around the bend and lost control."

Police had said Meloche couldn't make the curve in the road, lost control and was thrown from the motorcycle. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

It wasn't clear why Meloche apparently fled the officer, Babbitt said.

Babbitt said there was no indication that drugs or alcohol was in Meloche's system at the time of the incident.

Heather Lynn Peters covers police and fire, and writes a statewide food column, The Spunky Kitchen, for MLive/Muskegon Chronicle. Email her at hpeters@mlive.com and follow her on Twitter @HLPNEWS.