KALAMAZOO, MI - The death of a man in police custody in May was accidental and caused by his "significant medical and personal history," but two Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety officers have been suspended for failing to recognize his condition.

The Kalamazoo County Medical Examiner's Office has determined the death of James Dunigan, 57, was an accident, Public Safety Chief Jeff Hadley said in a news release Wednesday, Aug. 24.

Dunigan's death was caused by "hypertensive atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and end stage renal disease complicated by acute intoxication by the combined effects of hydrocodone, diphenhydramine, ephedrine and gabapentin," according to a portmortem examination report.

The medical examiner's office also found chronic cocaine use and fentanyl ingestion as other conditions that affected Dunigan. It "determined that Mr. Dunigan's significant medical and personal history were the only factors involved in his death," the news release said.

The Kalamazoo man died after being discharged from Bronson Methodist Hospital on May 6. Police said he refused to leave the hospital and told officers he wanted to go to jail. They tried to get him up from a wheelchair but he resisted and was arrested for trespassing. A warrant check revealed he had a warrant for a probation violation.

Dunigan was handcuffed and placed in a police car with the assistance of Bronson security, then transported to the Kalamazoo County Jail for processing.

During transport, Public Safety officers Derek Nugent and Eric Shaffer stopped to check on Dunigan after hearing what they described as "snoring" coming from him, police said previously. The two officers attempted to sit him upright as he had slid down to the floorboard.

They checked for breathing and conducted a sternal rub for pain reaction and level of consciousness, and shined a light in his eyes, causing him to blink and close his eyes. They then continued toward the jail.

Upon arriving at the jail at 6:56 a.m., Nugent checked on Dunigan again, looking for chest movement as an indicator of breathing. Jail staff then took over Dunigan's care. He was seen by the jail nurse and life-saving efforts were started by jail staff with assistance from Nugent and Shaffer. Dunigan was pronounced dead at 7:41 a.m.

Hadley said Wednesday that the KDPS investigation into Dunigan's death included a review of the autopsy report, discussion with the Kalamazoo County Medical Control Authority on their review process, interviews of all associated parties and review of applicable KDPS policies and procedures. Its Office of Professional Standards reviewed KDPS policies and procedures, all video, and interviewed Bronson security and staff and the the two officers.

Both officers were given a one-day suspension for violating policy regarding medical attention. "Specifically, the officers should have recognized Mr. Dunigan's condition and sought medical treatment," Hadley said in the news release.

At his department's request, the Kalamazoo County Medical Control Authority will help with an "after action review" that will include an analysis of protocol, training and best practices, the chief said.

"On behalf of KDPS and the City of Kalamazoo we extend our continued condolences to the Dunigan family and I apologize for any failings on the part of KDPS," Hadley said.