Holly Fournier

The Detroit News

Hamtramck — An armed, wrong-way driver was killed in a fiery crash early Wednesday when he fled police by traveling north onto southbound Interstate 75, according to state and local police.

The crash closed the southbound lanes at the Davison Freeway from around 2:30 a.m. until 8 a.m., Lt. Mike Shaw said.

Holland resident Tibias Kwame Anderson, 25, died after fleeing Hamtramck police, who had tried to stop him for an unspecified traffic violation, Shaw said.

Hamtramck police on Wednesday released a statement detailing the brief chase that began around 1:50 a.m. and ended with a fiery crash.

“During the pursuit the suspect vehicle attempted to hit a second police vehicle, at which time the police vehicle swerved out of the way,” officials said. “The chase continued at which time the suspect vehicle entered southbound I-75 going north. At this time officers terminated the chase.

“As officers were leaving the area they observed a large explosion near (the) Davison and proceeded to the area where they observed the suspect had crashed into another vehicle.”

Anderson struck a 2007 Saab occupied by a male and female in their early 20s, Shaw said.

“(Anderson) was ejected from his vehicle and pronounced dead at the scene,” he said. “Troopers did locate a firearm near him.”

The male and female victims were taken to Detroit Receiving Hospital with serious injuries, Shaw said.

“The injuries weren’t life-threatening when they went (to the hospital) but things can change,” he said.

The chase was caught on dashcam footage before police called off the pursuit, Shaw said. Officials are waiting for the footage to download as troopers and the crash reconstruction unit continue to investigate the incident.

It remains unclear why Anderson fled police, Shaw said.

“People run all the time. They run when they don’t have a reason to run,” he said. “They have a disregard for law enforcement these days that’s kind of hard to understand.”

HFournier@detroitnews.com

(313) 223-4616

@HollyPFournier

Detroit News Staff Writer James David Dickson contributed.