PORTAGE, MI - By the time the chase ended four minutes after it began, smoke spewed from David Michael Mills' crashed car.

Nearby, Crystal Marie Norton's Chevrolet Impala sat on a grassy curb along Oakland Drive, the spot where it came to rest after Mills' Crown Victoria smashed into Norton as police say he tried to flee from Portage Public Safety officers the night of Jan. 9.

After the crash, police found Mills and his passenger, a teenage girl, were OK. Officers arrested Mills and detained the girl.

Norton was pronounced dead at the scene.

Police have said the Paw Paw mother was leaving a business on Oakland Drive and trying to turn north when Mills' southbound car crashed into the driver's side of Norton's Impala.

Dashcam video released by Portage Public Safety officials this week captured the aftermath of the crash. Mills' car came to rest facing north in the northbound lanes of Oakland. Norton's car was up on the grassy curb on the east side of Oakland with the front end of her car facing south.

The video released by police includes footage from the cruisers of four Portage officers, including two who chased the teen before the crash, as well an officer who tried unsuccessfully to deploy stop sticks on Oakland Drive and another who responded to the scene of the crash.

The footage shows the incident that led to the crash and Norton's death began just before 9:20 p.m. when a Portage officer pulled behind Mills' car on South Westnedge Avenue at Kilgore Road. The car, police have said, matched the description of a car that had just fled from a traffic stop in Kalamazoo.

Portage Public Safety Deputy Chief Nick Armold said this week that Kalamazoo officers had tried to stop Mills for a stop-sign violation and reported that the car did not have a license plate. The car does not appear to have a license plate in the dashcam video released by police.

After the officer pulled behind Mills' car on South Westnedge, the dashcam video shows the Crown Victoria quickly turned into a Pizza Hut parking lot, drove through the parking lot and then headed west on Kilgore Road.

The Portage officer gave chase but Mills was able to quickly put distance between them and Mills' car is not visible in the dashcam video a short time after the pursuit begins. The video footage shows that the officer was traveling at speeds in the 70s and 80s at different points in the pursuit.

Armold said previously that Mills reached speeds of more than 80 mph during the pursuit based on the fact that the two pursuing officers reached speeds of up to 80 mph and there were times when Mills car couldn't be seen in their dashcam videos.

Armold backed away from that estimation this week, saying it's "hard to tell" how fast Mills may have been going during the pursuit. He said police are awaiting the results of a traffic crash reconstruction by Michigan State Police to determine how fast Mills was traveling during the pursuit and just before the fatal collision.

Armold said police officials have driven the four-mile route of the police chase since it occurred and determined that Mills covered the distance in less than four minutes and that his average speed during the pursuit was about 63 mph.

"Obviously, he hit her with significant force," Armold said of the collision.

Mills has been charged with first-degree fleeing and eluding police and driving without a license causing death in connection with the chase and fatal crash. Each felony is punishable by up to 15 years in prison.

Mills is scheduled to appear Feb. 9 for a preliminary examination hearing in Kalamazoo County District Court.

During the Jan. 9 pursuit, the officer who initiated the chase eventually turned south onto Oakland from Kilgore and continued to pursue Mills. By 9:22 p.m., a second cruiser joined the pursuit and took the lead in the chase after spotting Mills' car as it headed south on Oakland near Milham Avenue.

A third officer assisted in the chase, laying stop sticks at Oakland and Schuring Road that were not effective in bringing Mills car to a stop.

Just before 9:24 p.m., the two officers chasing Mills came upon the crash scene near Oakland and Centre Avenue.

Moments later, both officers approached Mills' car with their guns drawn. The lead officer in the chase ordered Mills' passenger out of the car while the other officer pulled Mills out of the driver's door, wrestled him to the ground and arrested him.

By 9:35 that night, Mills was in the backseat of a Portage Public Safety cruiser. The officer who initiated the chase of Mills told the teen he was under arrest for fleeing and eluding police, read to him his Miranda rights and asked if Mills understood them.

After Mills said he understood his rights, the officer began interviewing him.

"Can you explain to me why you fled from the police today?" the officer asked Mills.

"Sir, honestly, I just don't know what I ... I didn't know what to do so I just left. I don't know because, to be honest sir, I don't have a license. I just bought that car. I was on my way to the house."

The officer, at one point, asks Mills who the car is registered to. Mills tells the officer the Crown Victoria wasn't registered to anyone and that he had recently bought the vehicle, but couldn't recall when.

The officer asks Mills how old he is, at that point, and queries whether Mills knew what it meant when police were behind him with their lights and sirens activated.

"Yes, sir," Mills said. "... I just want to be honest, I didn't know what was going to happen so I just, I didn't know man."

"You know what likely would have happened?" the officer said. "You would've gotten a ticket ... You know what's going to happen now? You're probably going to go to prison.

"That person that you hit is dead."

The news from the officer about Norton's death caused Mills to cry and he asked the officer if he could use a phone to call his mother.

The officer responded with a quick, "No."

"You're 17 years old, you're an adult," the officer said. "This is big boy time."

The officer asked Mills if he had any warrants out for his arrest or if he had any weapons in his car. Mills responded to both questions that he did not. He told the officer he has never had a valid license and had been arrested previously as a juvenile.

"Am I going to prison?" Mills asked the officer.

"I hope so," the officer said.

Later in their conversation, the officer told Mills he had endangered several people by running from the police. Mills told the officer, at one point, that Norton "just pulled out in front of me."

Rex Hall Jr. is a reporter for MLive.com. You can reach him at rhall2@mlive.com. Follow him on Twitter.