Trent Moses GoFundMe image.jpg

Trent Moses GoFundMe image (https://www.gofundme.com/TrentMosesBurial)

(iCEY5sj7jqqsmijapX8R68zvISZQQCeOo/1H8x3p4t3sqMI4A4gcaf1NoY8LdiBoi/82nxRTZ4yN7j1MRmPDHQ==)

Example of minibike for sale by CTC Manufacturing (http://gtcmanufacturing.com/Bonanza215MinibikeFrameKit.aspx)

Minibikes are small, quick, and loosely regulated.

Fourteen-year-old Trent S. Moses died on one last week shortly after a police chase. Investigators say police tried to stop Moses, but he fled, without a helmet, on a black mini-bike eclipsing 40 mph at times.

He zipped through stop signs with no regard for other traffic and eventually slammed into the rear, driver's-side door of a Pontiac at the intersection of Rosemont and Paul in west Detroit, Wayne County County Prosecutor Kym Worthy's Office said in a statement Thursday.

It nearly sunset, 9:10 p.m. June 10, when Detroit police say they first spotted Trent and his twin brother, also on a mini-bike, his red. They say Trent was speeding through the residential neighborhood where the limit is 25 mph.

"The officers turned on their emergency lights to pull over the driver of the black mini-bike for speeding," Worthy's office said in a statement. "The teen drove off at a high rate of speed attempting to evade the police cars, and ran through several stop signs."

It's not clear from the prosecutor's statement exactly where the chase began, but they say they disengaged one street south of the intersection where the collision occurred.

"The officers turned off their emergency lights and discontinued their pursuit of the teen because he would not pull over and they were in a residential neighborhood near Rosemont and Drayton," Worthy's office said. "The teen continued riding north on Rosemont and ran through a stop sign at Paul Street.

"He struck the back door of the driver's side of a white Pontiac as it was going through the intersection."

Detroit police submitted the investigation to Worthy's office to determine if 26-year-old Cynthia Clark of Detroit, the driver of the vehicle struck by Trent, would face any criminal charges.

"She was driving the speed limit and was not under the influence of alcohol or any other substance that would cause impairment,": Worthy's office says. "At the time of the fatal crash in this case, the conduct of Mr. Moses speeding, evading the police, and running multiple stop signs was grossly negligent.

"It has been determined that no charges will issue against Ms. Clark in connection with the death of Mr. Moses."

She was, however, charged with misdemeanor driving on a suspended license.

Trent's funeral is scheduled for Monday. A GoFundMe donation page was established to assist his family with burial costs.

Two children, Michael A. Jackson, 6; and Makiah Jackson, 3, were killed when Detroit police chased a suspects believed to be armed with a handgun through residential streets on the city's east side in March 2015.

An internal investigation found the officers should have taken into consideration the geography, neighborhood and time of day prior to commencing a chase.

Officer Richard Billingslea, the driver, received a 3-day suspension; Officer Steven Fultz, the front passenger, underwent re-training, Sgt. Michael Woody told MLive in March.

Lorenzo D. Harris, the Detroit man who fled police and killed the children, is serving a minimum of 30 years in prison.