Members of the state Supreme Court say they won’t review a case that charged Saginaw County law enforcers with the wrongful death of 44-year-old Saginaw John L. Thompson, who died after he was Tased multiple times while being taken into police custody Aug. 6, 2003.

Thompson’s daughter, Devica Thompson, representing her father’s estate, sued the Zilwaukee and Carrollton Township police departments, members of those departments, the Saginaw County Sheriff’s Department, the city of Zilwaukee and Taser, the Scottsdale, Ariz.-based manufacturer of police shock devices.

In 2006, then-Saginaw County Circuit Court Judge Robert L. Kaczmarek’s ruling stated the plaintiff failed to prove the Taser or actions by police caused Thompson’s death. Saginaw County Medical Examiner Dr. Kanu Virani said in his autopsy report that Thompson died of natural causes and suffered from heart disease. Virani’s report specifically stated that use of the Taser device did not cause Thompson’s death.

Devica Thompson started the appeals process. A state Court of Appeals decision released in June 2009 sided with the defendants, and Devica Thompson appealed to the state Supreme Court.

The court issued a decision March 11 stating it would not review the case.

“We felt very strongly that the officers had no wrong-doing on their part,” said Carrollton Township Police Chief Craig A. Oatten, who was named in the suit. “It’s difficult that it has to take this long to get through the system, but we fully anticipated this outcome.”

Jason A. Hendricks, who was a Carrollton Township police officer in 2003, now works for the Saginaw Township Police Department.

He was one of the first officers to arrive at Sterling Crest Apartments, 1307 Tittabawassee, in Carrollton Township, where witnesses said Thompson grew belligerent while playing cards at a friend’s apartment. When officers arrived, Thompson tried to topple a big-screen television and threw a potted plant at them.

Oatten said an officer fired a Taser at Thompson, but only one of the probes hit him.

“At that point, my officer, Hendricks, thought the suspect was under the influence of the Taser and moved in to handcuff him and was kicked in the ribs,” Oatten said. He said officers Tased the man again at close range and were eventually able to handcuff Thompson.

“That’s the only two times, that I’m aware of, that he was Tased in the field,” Oatten said.

Attorney G. Gus Morris, who represented the police departments, said Thompson became belligerent as he was being walked into the Saginaw County Jail and was Tased at least one more time.

His breathing became labored, and he was transported to St. Mary’s of Michigan hospital in Saginaw, where he died two days later.