Floyd Dent listens to speakers at a rally in his support outside the Inkster Police Department Wednesday, April 1, 2015. Inkster police are facing an investigation into their handling of a Jan. 28 traffic stop that hospitalized 57-year-old Floyd Dent of Detroit. Dent was eventually charged with resisting and assaulting police and possession of cocaine, which Dent claims was planted. The charges of resisting and assaulting police was dismissed, but Dent, who has no criminal history based on Wayne County Records, was arraigned for cocaine possession Wednesday morning. Wayne County Circuit Judge David Groner, entered a not-guilty plea on Dent's behalf. The stop is being investigated by state police. (Tanya Moutzalias | MLive Detroit)

INKSTER, MI -- Floyd Dent, the 57-year-old Detroit man beaten by police in Inkster during a traffic stop Jan. 28, will receive a significant sum for his pain and suffering.

"I can confirm that there was a settlement (with Inkster) for $1.4 million," a representative for Gregory Rohl, the attorney representing Dent, said Thursday morning. "I can give any more information than that."

Rohl previously said he was in talks with Inkster officials about a settlement and planned to file a civil lawsuit if those negotiations broke down.

Fired Inkster Police Officer William Melendez, 46, who delivered at least 16 punches to Dent's face and head seconds after pulling him from his vehicle during a traffic stop for an alleged minor violation, is now facing criminal charges.

Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy in April charged Melendez with misconduct in office/mistreatment of a prisoner, punishable by up to five years in prison; and assault with intent to do great bodily harm, punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

He's expected in court Thursday for a preliminary hearing to determine if there is enough evidence to proceed with a trial.

Dent was previously charged with possession of cocaine, which he believes was planted by Melendez, and assaulting or resisting a police officer. Both charges were dismissed.

Dent passed a polygraph test attesting the drugs were not his.

Footage of the arrest shows Melendez, who's been accused of civil rights violations in past lawsuits, of choking and punching Dent in the face 16 times.

Melendez claims in his police report Dent threatened to kill him and bit him.

Following the criminal charges, acting Inkster Police Chief Vicki Yost resigned and officials suspended two other officers.

Melendez wrote in his report that Dent threatened to kill, at which time he was pulled from the vehicle and placed in a choke hold. Melendez said the punches were in response to Dent's attempts to struggle and bite him. The cocaine was reportedly located under the passenger seat, Melendez wrote in his report.

Melendez has been involved in numerous prior lawsuits alleging civil rights violations.

In an open federal lawsuit stemming from a July 26, 2011 raid in Inkster, DeShawn Acklin is suing the city and seven officers, including Melendez. Acklin claims he visited a home targeted in a raid conducted by Detroit police. Acklin was using the bathroom when police "barged into the house," the complaint says.

The lawsuit says Acklin complied with officers' orders, dropped to the floor and was subsequently choked and beaten unconscious. Inkster police detained Acklin for three days before releasing him from jail. He was never charged with any crimes.

DeShawn Acklin V. Inkster, Melendez.pdf

Another lawsuit naming Melendez involved the killing of Ernest Crutchfield II. The lawsuit, filed by the victim's son and eventually settled by Detroit for $50,000, claims Melendez and other officers raided Crutchfield's home in November 2003 without a warrant and fatally shot the man.

Melendez was indicted along with 16 fellow Detroit police officers in 2003 stemming from claims they planted evidence, falsified reports and stole cash and property from suspects. A jury acquitted the officers in that case.

Check back with MLive for live coverage from the courtroom of the preliminary hearing beginning at 11 a.m. Thursday in Inkster.