ROCHESTER, N.Y. - A former Herrin woman, Mary (Charlet) Duewer, 51, was found shot to death by authorities late Sunday evening behind a funeral home in Rochester.

Duewer was a 1970 graduate of Herrin high school. She graduated Southern Illinois University Carbondale in 1974 with a bachelor of science degree in accounting. At the time of her death, she was employed as a financial aid adviser.

Jerri Charlet, sister-in-law of the victim, said Wednesday that it was Duewer's ex-husband, Mark Duewer, who is responsible for the murder. She said the two had allegedly met to discuss overdue child support payments.

"They had been divorced for 19 years," Charlet said. "And he just shows up out of the blue. The whole family is very shocked and upset with what has happened. We are at least comforted to know that Mary is with the Lord now. She was a very strong Christian woman."

Police said Duewer had been shot eight times in the upper torso.

Monroe County, Mich. police reported that a man, believed to be Mark Duewer, shot himself in the head while fleeing police Monday night. A deputy spotted the man's car about 11:10 p.m. and a computer check on the license plate revealed that the man was wanted by Rochester police.

During a chase that exceeded 100 miles-per-hour, the driver put a gun to his head and fired. He initially survived the gunshot, but later died at a Toledo, Ohio hospital.

David Craig of Carterville was a lifelong friend of Mary. He said it was "devastating" to learn what had become of his neighborhood pal.

"It's unbelievable," Craig said. "Why would anyone who knew Mary want to hurt a good person like her? I knew Mary all my life. We were next-door neighbors growing up in Herrin. We always stayed in contact. The last I talked was her was on the phone around Christmas."

Craig said he had been following the murder and chase stories through the Rochester newspaper on the Internet. "What can you say? It's just an extremely tragic event."

Cathy (Calliss) Ferketich also went to high school with Mary. "When I heard the news, I was very shocked and greatly saddened and upset," she said.

The Duewers have one son, Joshua, 19, a student at the Rochester Institute of Technology.