GRAND RAPIDS -- A federal judge denied a motion Friday to dismiss the lawsuit filed by the widow of a Saranac man shot to death in his home by two Ionia County sheriff's deputies in 2005.

In an opinion released Friday, U.S. District Court Judge Robert J. Jonker said Ionia County sheriff's Sgt. Travis Gribble and deputy Brent Denny illegally entered the home of Fred Bletz and shot him without clearly identifying themselves as police authorities.

Jonker's ruling differs from interpretations by the Ionia County prosecutor and state attorney general, which both cleared Gribble and Denny of any wrongdoing.

The deputies had argued they didn't violate Bletz's Fourth Amendment rights when they entered the house as they executed a warrant for the arrest of Bletz's son, Zachary. The deputies also contended the shooting was an act of self-defense when Fred Bletz pulled a gun on them.

Both arguments, the deputies' attorneys said, provided them with qualified immunity, a federal defense that protects government officials from lawsuits when they properly follow the law.

Jonker, however, ruled the officers didn't have a warrant to enter Fred Bletz's house and didn't properly identify themselves as police authorities.

"Defendants cannot claim the protection of qualified immunity when their own objectively unreasonable actions created the very risk that generated the eventual use of deadly force," Jonker wrote.

"Defendants surprised Fred Bletz by unlawfully and unreasonably entering his home late at night, and then shot him dead when he tried to protect himself from what seemed to be a legitimate threat to his home and his family."

While Jonker ruled against the officers' motion to dismiss the civil suit, the case would still have to go before a federal district court jury. No trial date is set, but the two sides are expected to meet before Jonker next month.

Searching for homeowner's son

In May 2005, Gribble and Denny discreetly approached Fred Bletz's house in search of Zachary Bletz, who was wanted on drunken-driving charges. They didn't turn on sirens, didn't flash bright lights and parked 35 feet away from the house.

The officers spoke to Zachary Bletz outside his father's home. When Zachary Bletz returned to the house to retrieve his shoes, the officers followed him. Fred Bletz, who was asleep before the deputies arrived at about 11:40 p.m., was awakened by Zachary's barking dog.

Family members said when Fred Bletz approached the deputies in a dimly lit room, he pointed a semi-automatic handgun at the deputies, concerned they were intruders. Bletz's gun had bullets in the magazine but none in the chamber, investigators said.

Bletz was repeatedly told to put down the gun, but witness accounts differ as to whether the officers properly identified themselves to Bletz as police authorities. Records also show Bletz was so near-sighted that he likely couldn't see the officers.

With Bletz's gun still pointed in his direction, Gribble fired four shots at Bletz, hitting him once in the abdomen. Bletz died of blood loss resulting from the gunshot wound. Zachary Bletz testified that his father had lowered his gun before Gribble fired.

In June 2008 -- three years after the officers were cleared by prosecutors and the attorney general -- Kathryn Bletz filed a civil suit against Gribble and Denny. She sought unspecified punitive damages, lost wages for her husband's death and other restitution.

Jonker's ruling Friday will allow Kathryn Bletz to continue her lawsuit.

"Defendants entered the Bletz home knowing that others were present in the home, yet failed to announce themselves as police officers or otherwise alert the occupants to their presence," Jonker wrote.

"Gribble then fired four shots at Fred Bletz without ever announcing himself as a police officer. ... These are not the actions of objectively reasonable officers."

When contacted about the case, Kathryn Bletz said she was not aware of the Friday ruling. She referred questions to her attorneys, who could not be reached for comment.

An attorney for Gribble and Denny, as well as Ionia County sheriff's department officials, could not be reached for comment.

E-mail the author of this story: localnews@grpress.com