DEARBORN HEIGHTS – A standoff that began about 10 a.m. Sunday came to a violent end more than 12 hours later when police found 39-year-old Rodney Johnson dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound inside his home in the 24000 block of Hanover, west of Telegraph Road.

According to police, Johnson had barricaded himself inside the home, which he shared with his 3-year-old daughter, after shooting his ex-wife multiple times in her legs and abdomen as she tried to flee from the home after the two had an argument.

Police have not released the name of the injured woman. She was taken to Heritage Hospital in Taylor where her condition was stabilized before she was airlifted to University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor for surgery. She remains in serious condition in intensive care, although she is expected to recover.

“She went there to pick their daughter up for church in the morning and something she said angered him to the point that he shot her,” said Dearborn Heights Police Chief Michael Gust.

“We’re still investigating what set him off. As far as we know, he doesn’t have a criminal record.”

Gust said that the woman was shot several times inside Johnson’s home, but was able to get out of the house and make her way to a nearby home for help.

However, Johnson followed her and shot her several more times outside the neighbor’s home, Gust said, after which he returned to his home and barricaded himself inside.

“It was a dangerous situation because there was also a child in the home,” said Capt. Gary Tomkiewicz, head of the investigative division. “But fortunately, he released her shortly after officers arrived.”

Members of the Dearborn Heights SWAT team, armed with M16 semi-automatic rifles, used force to enter the home about 10 p.m., Gust said, after Johnson had failed to respond to negotiators for more than five hours.

“We were prepared that he had either killed himself or was planning something,” Gust said.

Officers found Johnson’s body face down in a hallway near the top of the stairs, Gust said, with a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head.

Shortly after responding the initial call, paramedics found the woman he shot in an unconscious state inside the neighbor’s by home. She had fallen through the front glass storm door of the home when she had been shot and received multiple lacerations, Tomkiewicz said.

And Gust said that while neighbors reported hearing about four shots fired, surgeons who operated on the woman said that she had been shot between seven and eight times.

“He had three handguns in the house,” Gust said. “Which one he used at this point isn’t clear.”

The couple’s daughter has been released into the care of a relative while the incident remains under investigation, Tomkiewicz said.