Davison District Court Judge John L. Conover said former Flint police officer Mitchell D. Manwell "did a dumb thing" when he failed to report his friend struck and killed a pedestrian walking in the darkness on a January night in Vienna Township.

But he said today that nothing would be served by sending Manwell, 23, to jail. Manwell pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor charge of conspiring to fail to report an accident involving a fatal injury.

Manwell could have faced a year in prison, but instead Conover said Manwell will be a year on probation. But he also must serve 200 hours of community service with the American Red Cross and 90 days with the Genesee County Sheriff's Department work detail.Manwell, who lost his job as a Flint police officer, also must pay $1,345 in fines and court costs, the judge said.

Conover said he would hold a possible sentence of 275 days in jail in abeyance, pending Manwell's successful completion of his probation.

The sentencing came today in Central District Court in downtown Flint.

Manwell was charged in connection with the Jan. 13 death of former U.S. Marine Ricky Salas Jr., 23, a Montrose High School graduate and Iraq war veteran.

Salas was killed about 3:30 a.m. as he walked east in the middle of Farrand Road in Vienna Township. Police and prosecutors said Salas may have lost control of his car on icy roads after leaving a friend's wedding and was walking for help when he was struck.

Bryan J. Abbott, 23, of Clio was the driver who struck Salas. But Manwell, Abbott's friend, was in another car and saw Salas seconds before the fatality. After Salas was struck, Manwell told Abbott to leave, witnesses said.

In earlier proceedings in the case, Genesee Circuit Judge Judith A. Fullerton sentenced Abbott to 5 years' probation, a year in jail and 6 months on electronic tether for his plea to leaving the scene of a crash resulting in death.

Manwell had been charged initially with two felonies -- failure to stop at the scene of an accident causing death and being an accessory after the fact. But in the plea agreement, the first charge was amended to a misdemeanor and the second charge was dropped.

As part of Manwell's plea agreement, he also is giving up state certification as a police officer and is agreeing not to seek employment as an officer, said Assistant Prosecutor Rebecca Jurva, reading the agreement in court.

Manwell had been a probationary officer at the Flint Police Department, but he was fired earlier this year.