The driver of a van that struck a sports utility vehicle in 1999 that led to the death of the driver was killed early Friday morning after he lost control of his motorcycle while fleeing police.

Warren police Detective Randal Ricotta said Steven Roger Vilk, 35, most recently of Roseville, was killed when he flew off a motorcycle and struck some shrubs and the ground. The chase started in the area of Eight Mile Road and Schoenherr and ended about a mile away on Strasburg and Collingwood in Detroit.

Vilk was convicted of negligent homicide following the 1999 crash. Shelby Township police records say the van Vilk was driving on the Christopher Columbus Freeway (M-53) in Shelby Township in November 1999 struck a vehicle driven by Armando Medel that resulted in him being thrown from his vehicle. Medel, 61, who was from Waterford Township, then was run over by another car and dragged for several hundred feet causing the death. Vilk immediately took off, but surrendered to police several hours later, records indicate.

Police suspected that Vilk was drunk at the time, but no drunken driving charges were levied because it could not be proven that he was intoxicated at the time of the accident.

Vilk was sentenced to nine months in the Macomb County Jail by Circuit Judge Deborah A. Servitto. If Vilk was intoxicated and police could have proved it, he would have faced a maximum of 15 years in prison.

At the time, his defense attorney, Felice Iafrate of Clinton Township, said Vilk was not intoxicated at the time of the crash. He said Vilk hit his head during the crash and surrendered to police after his head cleared.

Ricotta said an officer was at a shopping center at Eight Mile and Schoenherr when he saw Vilk riding on the busy road at a high rate of speed. He said the officer tried to stop Vilk but he sped away. At one point the officer lost sight of the cycle’s lights.

“The officer said the cycle then disappeared,” Ricotta said. “The officer then found the cycle. It went off the road, hit a pile of hedges and Vilk was thrown.”

Ricotta said the cycle then tumbled. He said Vilk died at the scene.