Follow the story

• April 22, 2007: Police shooting slammed: Woman armed with knife little threat -- neighbors

• April 27, 2007: Victim called 911: 'I'm gonna kill somebody'

• May 3, 2007: Sheriff petitions county for Tasers

• Dec. 25, 2007: Prosecutor gets report on fatal shooting by Flint police

Flint -- Two Flint police officers have been cleared in last year's fatal shooting of a knife-wielding woman at a mobile home park.

Genesee County Prosecutor David S. Leyton called the incident "regrettable and unfortunate" but said the officers were justified when they shot the woman -- hitting her five times and grazing her twice.

Jo Ann Burgett, 46, died April 20, 2007, after police responded to a trouble call about 7 p.m. at the Shady Acres mobile home park on Western Road.

Police said they found Burgett standing in the middle of the street outside Lot 32 with an open buck knife in her hand and a broken beer bottle at her feet.

Yelling and waving her arms at officers, police said Burgett refused orders to drop the knife and advanced toward them as she dared them to shoot.

The officers opened fire on her when she got within five feet of them and reared back with the knife, a folding lock-back model with a 2.5-inch-long blade. She died at the scene.

The incident outraged Burgett's neighbors in the park, as well as Flint City Councilwoman Carolyn Sims, who called it a "senseless murder."

The decision not to charge the officers was not made lightly, said Leyton.

Flint police and state police spent several months investigating the shooting, and Leyton's office spent about three months reviewing those findings, including a trip back to the park to re-enact the incident.

Ultimately, the decision came down to the law on deadly force.

Under state law, anyone has the permission to use deadly force to defend themselves from a deadly attack.

"This is precisely what occurred here," said Leyton in a prepared statement. Leyton was expected to announce his decision at a news conference this morning.

Although Leyton said a private citizen confronted with a knife might retreat and find protection, he said police have a duty to protect others from harm and protect themselves.

"They do not have the option of running away from a threat," he said.

Leyton said he and his staff reviewed the city's deadly force policy as part of the investigation.

The incident raised many questions, including whether the officers could have reacted differently or responded in a way that would have diffused the situation while protecting themselves and nearby onlookers.

"I cannot turn back the clock, and hindsight is always 20/20," Leyton said.

Police union officials have defended the shooting and said Burgett was well within the accepted 21-foot rule where police must decide whether to use deadly force before a threat gets too close.

Leyton said the facts of the incident dictated his decision.

"In this case, the shooting was clearly lawful," he said.