Amber Iverson (23) died when her vehicle was struck by a police cruiser



Amber Iverson (23) Date: Apr 20, 2007

Cause of Death: Automobile Accident

Location: Dearborn Heights, MI

URL: view their profile Apr 20, 2007Automobile AccidentDearborn Heights, MI

Police are investigating a crash involving a Dearborn Heights patrol car that killed a 23-year-old mother of three Friday.



A reconstructionist for the Michigan State Police also is investigating the accident.



The patrol car, driven by a Dearborn Heights police officer, was traveling east on Van Born Road at an unknown rate of speed at about 9:20 p.m. and a 1996 Pontiac Grand Am was in the left-turn lane facing west, Taylor police Cpl. Ted Michowski said.



The Grand Am was turning into the parking lot at Hazel's Party Store, 26025 Van Born, when the patrol car struck it, Michowski said.



Two women and two children were in the car, which was hit on the passenger side. The impact caused the Grand Am to flip onto its side, Michowski said.



"The officer and some citizens helped tip the car back over," he said.



The passenger, Amber Iverson of Taylor, suffered fatal injuries and died a short time later at a hospital. The children were restrained, but the women were not wearing seat belts.



Iverson was out with a friend, her friend's 8-month- old daughter and her 4-year-old niece. She had parked her car at Hazel's Party Store and was going back to get it, said her mother, Beverly Arko.



Iverson was taken to Oakwood Heritage Hospital, where she was revived once and asked about the condition of her niece, Arko said. Hospital officials were preparing to airlift Iverson when she died.



Iverson's 4-year-old niece was expected to be released Monday from C.S. Mott Children's Hospital in Ann Arbor, Arko said.



Iverson's friend and her friend's daughter, the police officer and his passenger were taken to Oakwood Hospital & Medical Center in Dearborn, where they were treated and released, Michowski said.



The 29-year-old police officer, a three-year veteran of the Dearborn Heights force who had previously worked for the Detroit Police Department, had a Henry Ford Community College criminal justice student in the patrol car with him for a ride-along, Michowski said.



The officer and his passenger were wearing seat belts.



In addition to the investigation by the Taylor Police Department, the Dearborn Heights Police Department is conducting an internal investigation to determine if the officer violated any internal policies, Dearborn Heights Police Chief Michael Gust said.



If so, the officer would be given a hearing and could be disciplined with anything ranging from a warning to a substantial suspension. Gust said he doesn't believe the incident warrants termination.



The officer, who was not named, was placed on administrative leave through yesterday and must see a departmental psychologist before he will be allowed to return to work.



Arko said she did not see the crash, but witnesses told her a Dearborn Heights police car was pursuing a motorcycle and it did not have its lights or siren on when it hit the Grand Am.



Gust said officers are allowed to pursue a speeding vehicle without their lights on, but must make the stop "in a reasonable amount of time." Gust said the officer is "a good officer and very dedicated."



Iverson's husband, Zane Iverson, was killed Jan. 1, 2005, in Canton Township. He had left a party, was walking along a street and was hit by a car.



Arko said she is applying for guardianship of two of her daughter's sons. The third is with his father, with whom Iverson and the three children lived.

Related Article(s): Police car in fatal crash

« go back to article archive list