MUSKEGON — Muskegon city commissioners have unanimously approved a $775,000 mediated settlement with the estate of a suspect who died in police custody after being pepper sprayed.

The settlement is between the city’s pooled insurance carrier, Michigan Municipal Risk Management, and the plaintiff of a civil rights lawsuit brought last September in U.S. District Court in Grand Rapids against the city and seven of its police officers, according to court records.

Jimmie Lee Jamerson is the successor and personal representative of the estate of William P. Griffin. The 47-year-old Griffin, of Muskegon Heights, died in police custody Oct. 1, 2007, after being arrested for resisting officers and eventually being found with three outstanding warrants.

In arresting Griffin, Muskegon police officers used pepper spray to subdue him, according to court documents. He complained of having trouble breathing — a common complaint from those hit by pepper spray, police say — and died in the Muskegon Police Department parking lot while being taken to the Muskegon County Jail, the lawsuit indicates.

Besides the city, the officers named as defendants were Michelle Gebben, Trevor Gerlach, Jeremy Velik, Mike Haug, Tim Thompson, Kate Strauss and Casey Bringedahl. Of those officers, only Gebben is no longer employed by the city, according to city officials.

Muskegon City Manager Bryon Mazade and Public Safety Director Tony Kleibecker declined to comment on the settlement. After the investigation of the incident, Kleibecker said there was no misconduct by the city’s officers.

City officials said the settlement has no immediate effect on the city’s budget but it is unknown what effect such a settlement might have on city insurance costs in the future.

The Chronicle was unsuccessful in getting comments on the settlement from the attorneys for the city’s insurance carrier and the individual officers. Grand Rapids attorney Stephen Drew represented Griffin’s estate.

“We always felt this was a situation (that) with proper procedures he would have lived,” Drew said of Griffin. “The family just wants to put this behind them. They hope this changes how a person is taken into custody and is given medical attention that is needed.”

The Sept. 25, 2009, lawsuit against the city and the seven officers alleged six offenses: excessive force, denial of medical attention, failure to adequately train and supervise the police officers, gross negligence, assault and battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress.

The city’s and its officers’ actions led to Griffin’s death, the lawsuit claims. The city and its officers violated Griffin’s Fourth Amendment and 14th Amendment rights under the U.S. Constitution for unreasonable and excessive force and unequal protection under the law, the plaintiff charges. Griffin was African-American.

“Plaintiff alleges that the defendants acted in a deliberate, grossly negligent and/or reckless manner when they improperly used and maintained (pepper spray) on decedent William Griffin,” according to court documents. “This resulted in injury to the decedent including, but not limited to, causing him serious breathing difficulty, which led to his death.”

In response to the lawsuit by Griffin’s estate, the city’s insurance carrier denied the charges.

“Defendants deny any use of excessive force,” the city and its insurance carrier responded in a Nov. 18, 2009, answer to the lawsuit.

“These defendants admit that they used reasonable force to restrain and handcuff Mr. Griffin and that this force was reasonable under the totality of the circumstances,” the insurance company’s defense attorney wrote. “The decedent on several occasions had given the officers false names ... although, he denied having warrants outstanding for his arrest, the truth is that Mr. Griffin had multiple warrants outstanding for his arrest. Further, he had physically resisted and opposed the officers’ effort to arrest him and engaged in an escalating physical confrontation with both officers.”

An autopsy report on Griffin’s death listed the cause as “accident.” The Muskegon County medical examiner found the death was due to pepper spray in a combination with Griffin’s chronic drug and alcohol abuse. At the time of his death, Griffin’s blood contained alcohol and traces of cocaine, among other drugs, the medical examiner found.

At the time of the medical examiner’s report on Griffin’s death, Kleibecker told The Chronicle that all his officers acted appropriately.

“I don’t see any level of misconduct on their part,” Kleibecker said in October 2007. “We feel for the family, but I see no misconduct. I see nothing they did wrong. It’s just a sad situation.”

Besides the actions of the officers on the scene and at the Muskegon police station, the lawsuit by Griffin’s estate accused the city of “insufficient supervision, training, placement and/or discipline” of officers.

The lawsuit went on to say: “Defendant city of Muskegon’s policy and practice of failing to hire minorities as police officers of the Muskegon Police Department has resulted in desperate impact in the street practices of said officers, in violation of the rights of Griffin and/or other African-Americans.”

The city and its insurance carrier had “no response” in its answer to those allegations.

The $775,000 settlement came after all parties attended an Aug. 26 “voluntary facilitated mediation” session, according to court documents.

Griffin’s estate will receive $500,976.46 of the final settlement, court records show. The remainder will pay the plaintiff attorney’s cost of litigation of $23,535.34 and the attorney’s fee of $250,488.20 — one third of the settlement — according to court documents.

E-mail Dave Alexander at dalexander@muskegonchronicle.com

