OTISVILLE, MI – The family of a man shot to death by police in November 2007 continues to pursue a long-shot appeal of a court decision that exonerated law enforcement officials in the case.

A state police trooper and a Genesee County Sheriff's paramedic shot Kevin Simmonds, 31, as he sat behind the wheel of his pickup truck on Nov. 23, 2007 in Otisville.

Police accounts of the shooting indicated that Simmonds refused to get out of the car, said he had a gun, held a shiny object in his hand, wasn't affected by attempts to use a Taser and made a "furtive" movement before police opened fire.

A cell phone was later found on the front passenger seat and a .22-caliber rifle was found lying in the snow on the ground, several car lengths behind from the truck.

Police were cleared in the shooting months later and Simmonds' family sued Genesee County and the officers involved.

A district court judge granted a summary judgment in favor of the county and last month the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the decision, clearing the officers in a 2-1 decision.

Dan Simmonds of Swartz Creek, Kevin Simmonds' brother, still believes the officers went too far and said the case has created an inaccurate image of his brother as a severely mentally ill person who posed a threat to police.

"There's a lot of questions remaining," said Simmonds, 42. "It's not just simply a case of a mentally ill guy that snapped and had to be shot."

The incident began when Simmonds threatened over the phone to kill his ex-girlfriend's parents.

Police surrounded Simmonds' vehicle on his own parents property about a half hour after he made the threat, Dan Simmonds said. His former girlfriend's parents lived about 3 miles away.

"Kevin had over a half-hour to get there had he actually intended to do these people harm," Simmons said. "That's how he dealt with anger. He would yell and scream and threaten, but he wasn't violent."

He said his brother was suffering from depression after spending time in jail for shoplifting, losing his job, his house and his girlfriend.

"He had some depression issues and apparently at some point he was diagnosed with bi-polar. But essentially, anybody would be depressed at that point," he said.

"These guys have a tough job," Simmonds said about police. "I realize that. Everybody's got a gun and everybody's willing to use it. They're in a terrible time to be an officer, but at the same time at least in this particular case, time was on their side. They could have waited and sat back and waited to diffuse the situation."

Police have maintained that the officers acted properly in the case.

At least one appeals court judge agrees with Simmonds that questions remain about police conduct in the incident:

"The officers and the court respond that Kevin must have been pointing his cell phone at them out of the window. But this seems highly unlikely because the cell phone was found resting inside the truck on the seat, not where it would have dropped from Kevin's hands when he was killed," wrote U.S. Circuit Judge Gilbert Merritt in his dissenting opinion.

"At present, the case remains a puzzle. Why did the police rush so quickly, aggressively, and impulsively to hem Kevin in, surrounding him like an animal with guns drawn? Why was his family back at his house not allowed to intervene to avoid such a confrontation? Were reasonable steps taken by the police to consider the situation carefully and avoid shooting a man who was perhaps mentally ill and, in fact, unarmed?"

The judge was in the minority, however, and the 2-1 decision has all put the case to rest.

"As the district court correctly concluded," wrote Judge R. Guy Cole Jr. in the majority opinion, "it is immaterial whether Simmonds pointed the object squarely at (the officers). In either scenario, the officers were permitted to use deadly force in light of the uncontested statement by Kevin that 'I have a gun.'"

Simmonds has filed a motion for an "en banc" hearing, a rare move that would bring the case back in front of all 25 justices of the Sixth Circuit U.S. Appeals Court judges.

In its response to the motion, the county claims that the recording can not definitively determine whether or not Simmonds said he had a gun:

"As the majority panel correctly recognized, the mere fact that one cannot hear Kevin yell 'I have a gun' on the videotape is not enough to create a fact question regarding whether the victim ever said he had a gun," the county responded.

"... Simmonds' argument that the majority panel failed into take into account facts such as that 'Kevin was unarmed at the time of the shooting' and 'did not point a weapon at any officer' disregards entirely that the court must view the information available to the officers at the time they used force, not with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight which revealed that Kevin was ultimately unarmed."

Dan Simmonds acknowledges that an en banc hearing is rare and unlikely in the case, but said he's continuing to pursue the case out of a desire to clear his brother's name.

"I don't want him remembered as the crazy person out in the woods," Simmons said. "It's to clear his name. He doesn't deserve this...

"My hope is not very high that this is going to come to pass, but still, we hope."

Contact Khalil AlHajal at kalhajal@mlive.com or 810-241-8803. Follow him on Twitter @FlintKhalil or on Facebook at Khalil Flint Journal.