A Melvindale man who was the target of a police manhunt for fatally shooting a cook at a Lincoln Park restaurant died Tuesday when he drove into a farmer’s combine while being chased by police.

Kastriot (Castro) Mydini, 36, was killed instantly just before midnight after he rammed the farm equipment on 30 Mile Road in Lenox Township. He was identified Wednesday afternoon through fingerprint identification at the Michigan State Police crime laboratory.

Sheriff Mark Hackel said Mydini, who has a young son, robbed a clerk at gunpoint at a Meijer gas station in Lenox Township at 11:09 p.m. Tuesday. Then less than one-half hour later he robbed another clerk, this time at the Speedy Q gas station on 32 Mile and King roads in East China Township. He had killed the cook with an AK47 automatic weapon, police said.

Sheriff’s deputies took up the chase after they saw Mydini driving his sister’s Lexus at a high rate of speed, Hackel said. Mydini refused to stop and struck the combine, just east of Gratiot.

Ron Campau, the driver of the combine, was not hurt. Campau told Hackel that he barely felt the crash.

Police said Mydini was driving with his headlights off. A friend of Campau said he told him that Mydini turned on his headlights moments before the crash. The combine was badly damaged.

Campau was driving across the road toward his farm when the accident occurred. The suspect’s car went right under the header of the combine.

Campau was working late because he said he wanted to harvest as many of his organic sunflower plants before the rains came.

Hackel said he was at home when he heard a police radio dispatch of the chase. He and Capt. John Roberts immediately drove to the accident scene.

“Our main concern was his mind-set and that this man had weapons,” Hackel said of the suspect. “He already killed someone.

“If he would have ditched his vehicle and got out it certainly would have impacted our officers and there probably would have been a serious gunbattle.”

Lincoln Park police said Mydini was wanted for shooting Shpetim Maliqoski, 38, a cook at the Dix Coney Island on Dix and Cicotte streets. Sgt. Stu Howell said Mydini shot the man in the head with an AK47 automatic weapon.

Police said Mydini was looking for his former girlfriend, Nicole Carter, who was a waitress at the restaurant and was on her way to work when the shooting occurred.

Lincoln Park police said Mydini fired at another waitress and grazed her head with a bullet. Hackel said he was told that Mydini shot the cook because he thought he was having an affair with Carter. Before he left, police said, he threatened to come back and kill her, even if she was being protected by police.

Police said Mydini is a native of Albania and they feared he would try to flee there after the Lincoln Park shooting.

Police said Mydini abandoned his minivan and then took his sister’s 2004 Lexus from her house in Southgate. Police said they don’t know Mydini’s whereabouts during the time after the shooting and before crashing into the farm rig.

Troopers from the Michigan State Police Post in Richmond got involved in looking for Mydini after the first robbery at the Meijer gas station where he took a pack of cigarettes and bottle of juice.

Mydini then allegedly drove to St. Clair County and robbed the Speedy Q. He allegedly told an employee who was washing windows, “I don’t want to shoot you. Give up the money,” before he suddenly left the station when a car pulled into a gas bay.

Sheriff’s deputies found three samurai swords, a meat cleaver, hatchet and carving knife in his car.

“Our deputies did an excellent job because they recognized that the situation was very serious,” said Hackel. “They knew it wasn’t going to be pleasant because of the high powered weaponry he had.”