WYOMING -- The man suspected of murdering a Grand Rapids Creston High School student killed himself this afternoon in a 28th Street hotel as police acting on a tip closed in.

Kyle Keenan, 21, shot himself to death in a room at the America's Best Inn & Suites, said Grand Rapids Police Chief Kevin Belk.

Keenan had holed up in the hotel about 3 p.m. as police from Grand Rapids and Wyoming surrounded it, acting on a tip that he was inside. Police have been searching for Keenan since he allegedly shot and killed David Witherspoon on Friday afternoon.

Keenan's uncle Larry Keenan was at the scene and at one point talked with officers. Afterward Larry Keenan walked around to the back of the parking lot and started slamming his fists into a garage, wailing, "why, why?" He started crying.

He then told The Press that Keenan had killed himself.

As authorities arrived at the hotel, two men attempted to flee the area, police said. They both ran back into the room. Officers then heard a gunshot. Shortly afterward, the second man, described as an acquaintance of Keenan, left the room and was apprehended by police.

However, that man never told police that Keenan had shot himself. Police made that discovery when they went into the room about 40 minutes later.

Police refused to identify the second man, but said he was not the other suspect in Friday's slaying.

Officers surrounded and evacuated the hotel of its other guests.

Keenan had been identified as one of two suspects who shot and killed Witherspoon along Kalamazoo Avenue SE, near Griggs Street, on Friday. Authorities said two men in a white Dodge Neon sprayed at least five shots into a crowd of students about 4 p.m.

Witherspoon, 16, was hit at least once and died at the scene, Belk said.

It wasn't known whether he was the target or merely struck by the gunfire.

As Tuesday's scene unfolded, LaDonna Sims, a hairstylist at a nearby SuperCuts looked outside and saw police with guns drawn and in "full riot gear," running from every direction running toward the hotel.

"I was terrified so I locked my door," Sims said.

A resident who was inside the hotel said he heard the gunshot fired by the suspect, then saw police at his door.

"I was on my patio, saw the police and left," said the man, who did not want to be identified.

Police blocked traffic on 28th Street during the afternoon standoff.

E-mail the author of this story: localnews@grpress.com