Saginaw County's prosecutor says police involved in the Wednesday shooting death of an armed suspect were justified in defending themselves.

Michael D. Thomas said the case is closed for the six police officers involved in the shooting death of Delaney R. Williams of Detroit, who moments earlier beat his wife and attempted to kidnap and possibly kill her.

Four of the officers involved are Saginaw police, while the other two are state troopers from the Bridgeport Post.

"If (police) would not have fired, one of them would have been shot," Thomas said.

Police from Saginaw, Buena Vista Township and the state troopers went to 1135 Essling around 10 p.m. Wednesday to check reports that someone assaulted and shot at a woman.

Neighbors called 911 and reported seeing Williams, 44, chasing Lakesha Essex, 27, on Essling with a shotgun in his hand.

Police found a badly beaten victim and her mother in an apartment, with Williams armed and reloading in his van, a report states.

Police surrounded the van and ordered the suspect to throw out his weapons and surrender. He refused, got out of the van and pointed a shotgun at the police, the report states.

Williams also had a .25-caliber semi-automatic handgun on the floorboard of the van.

Police fired at Williams, and he died with the shotgun in his hands, the report stated. Investigators found spent and live shotgun shells at the scene.

"We don't know whose shot was the fatal shot," Thomas said of the police officers who discharged their guns.

State police investigators determined Williams was separated from his wife and that he called her to say he was coming to Saginaw that evening, the report stated.

"She was concerned and asked her mother to be there when he arrived," the report stated. "He arrived and immediately threatened his wife and struck her in the face with his handgun, causing serious injury."

Williams attempted to drag his wife into his van, but she resisted and tried to escape while her mother cried out for help as Williams shot at Essex, the report stated.

Essex escaped to her apartment with her mother.

"It is apparent from the investigation and interview of all relevant witnesses that Delaney Williams drove to Saginaw from Detroit (on Wednesday) with the premeditated and deliberate intent to kill or severely harm his wife," the report stated.