A final report on the circumstances surrounding the death of Randall Kaczynski won't be complete until autopsy test results are back from the lab.

But details are emerging about Kaczynski's life, which ended on his ex-wife's front porch after being fired upon by a police officer with a rifle.

The 28-year-old Kaczynski, who lived at 316 S. Henry St., has a long history of erratic behavior and incidents involving alcohol, violence and guns. A tall stack of Bay County Circuit Court files on Kaczynski provides details about his past. Kaczynski, whom friends called "Roffie," stood 6 feet 3 inches tall and topped 200 pounds. He had light brown hair and problems controlling his drinking and his temper, according to court files. He did not have a job, but collected Supplemental Social Security income.

A personal protection order taken out by Kaczynski's ex-wife in March was canceled at her request four months later.

Stacey Kaczynski called 911 to report that her ex-husband was at her home in the 500 block of North Birney Street on the evening of Nov. 11, pounding on the door and demanding to be let inside. By the time police arrived, Kaczynski allegedly had kicked in a door and entered the home, Bay City Police Chief Michael Cecchini has said. Inside were three adults and three children.

Kaczynski was armed with a scoped rifle, pacing across the enclosed porch, yelling about cigarettes and pointing the rifle at police, officers reported. An officer fired his rifle at the man, according to police.

After evacuating residents from a back door of the home, which is an adult foster care home, police found Kaczynski dead on the floor of the porch.

Michigan State Police Detective Sgt. Andrew Longuski interviewed officers and witnesses and is awaiting pending toxicology results before releasing results of his investigation.

For Michelle Gillespie, the scenario is all too familiar. Nearly five years ago, Kaczynski came onto the porch of her Wheeler Road home around 3 a.m., pounding on doors, yelling, and threatening to shoot himself.

"It's still in my head like it was yesterday," Gillespie told The Times on Tuesday.

After Bay County Sheriff's deputies arrived, Kaczynski turned the gun and shot himself in the arm.

Gillespie said she knew Kaczynski from the time he was a little boy who came over to play with her family's beagle puppies and became friends with her son. Kaczynski told deputies that he'd planned on committing suicide in front of his estranged friend, Gillespie's son.

But she's not so sure that was his only intent.

"He knew the system and he knew what to say," Gillespie said. "I believe there were actually two shots he had planned."

Kaczynski pleaded guilty to the firearms charges and was sentenced to 300 days in jail, a portion of which was deferred, and three years probation.

Gillespie said the criminal justice system didn't take Kaczynski's actions seriously.

"The system failed society and it failed Kaczynski," Gillespie said. "Where was there any justice served? His history is pages long, and there was nothing being done."