Family, friends and teachers are mourning the death of Wayland Union High School freshman Evan Lee Dame, who died on Sunday, Dec. 7. Dame died at DeVos Children's Hospital after suffering injuries in a traffic accident on Dec. 6. The accident took place at around 10:40 a.m. when roads were slick with ice and snow was falling.

Just before the accident, deputies from the Allegan County Sheriff's Department were traveling south on 10th Street, just south of Wayland, responding to a call about a suicidal man with a firearm.

Investigators said that there were three vehicles traveling northbound on 10th Street near 125th Avenue. Two of the vehicles slowed and moved to the shoulder of the roadway.

The third vehicle was driven by Evan Dame's brother, Brett Dame, 16. The front seat passenger was Ryan Keely, 17, while the back seat passengers were Evan Dame and Austin Roblyer, 14.

According to investigators, Dame's vehicle swerved to the right, then back into the roadway, in front of the cruiser, which hit Dame's vehicle on the passenger side.

A Michigan State Police report stated that Brett Dame was uninjured, Keeney was treated and released, and Austin Roblyer was seriously injured.

The driver of the patrol vehicle, Deputy David Miller, was treated for injuries and released. His front seat passenger, Reserve Officer David Quarry, was also treated and released.

At press time information was not available on Roblyer's condition

The Allegan County Sheriff's Department requested that the Michigan State Police investigate the accident. Troopers from the Wayland Post, along with the accident reconstruction unit from the 5th District Headquarters in Paw Paw, are investigating.

Dame, of Shelbyville, is survived by his parents, Dennis and Sarah Dame; his sister, Stephanie (Jesse) Snyder; his brothers, Daniel, Ryan and Brett Dame; his grandparents, Joan and Warren Rustad, Tom Powers, and Marilyn Dame; and other family members.

Funeral arrangements were made through Archer, Hampel & Kubiak of Wayland. A service was held on Thursday, Dec. 11 at Gun Lake Community Church with Pastor Robb Kornoelje and Father Christian Johnston officiating. A private graveside service was held at St. Stanislaus Cemetery.

Memorial Contributions can be made to DeVos Children's Hospital.