As police narrowed in on him as a murder suspect, Todd Sanford made a suicide video and told his former girlfriend he would not go to prison.

"He was a cop before. He's never been on the other side of the law," said Kelley Whiting, 25, of Henrietta Township. "He knows what goes on there."Sanford, a former Michigan State Police trooper and co-owner of The Rocket, a downtown Jackson nightclub, shot himself Wednesday. Only hours earlier, a judge signed a warrant for his arrest on charges of open murder and possessing a firearm during the commission of a felony.

Police said Sanford, 33, fatally shot Steven Sampier II inside Sampier's home in Blackman Township on Nov. 25 and then burned the house using gasoline to cover up the crime. Sampier, 30, was dating Whiting.

"He told his ex-girlfriend they would not take him alive," Jackson County Chief Assistant Prosecutor Mark Blumer said of Sanford.

"He was worried he would never see his kids again," said Whiting, who has a 3-year-old daughter with Sanford. Sanford has two other daughters, ages 13 and 10, from a marriage that ended in 2002.

Police said the killing centered around Whiting, who had broken up with Sanford before the slaying and was seeing Sampier.

"(Sanford) said he went over there to talk and it got out of control," said Whiting, who had dated Sanford on and off since she was 18.

Recently, she said, Sanford told her he committed the crime. "It is almost like a dream. You just wait to wake up," she said.

Authorities sought the warrant after they learned Sanford had confessed to Whiting and threatened suicide. He also was armed and might have posed a danger to others, police said.

Blackman Township Public Safety Director Mike Jester said police received a tip Wednesday that led them to search the home Sanford and Whiting shared at 12182 N. Meridian Road, where they found the suicide video.

The video, a "goodbye" recording, indicated he had plans to hurt himself and others, police said.

"Officers ... determined that Sanford had entered a dangerous and critical psychological stage and that Sanford was in possession of a firearm," a statement released by the county Prosecutor's Office said.

A Jackson County sheriff's deputy approached Sanford's vehicle about 4:30 p.m. Wednesday after Sanford pulled into his driveway near Territorial Road.

Before the deputy got to the vehicle, Sanford shot himself in the head with a .44-caliber pistol he had sitting on his lap, Blumer said.

The pistol, which was not the same weapon used to kill Sampier, had been reported stolen, Blumer said.

Police would not talk about the gun used in the Nov. 25 shooting other than to say it was a handgun because Jester said the case is still open to "tie up loose ends."

The Prosecutor's Office statement said Sampier was shot once in the back and once in the back of the head. The Army veteran was a sergeant at a Department of Corrections boot camp in Chelsea.

Sanford only knew of Sampier; they were not friends, Whiting said.

A birthday party for Sanford, scheduled at The Rocket on Thursday night, turned into a time of mourning and celebration of Sanford's life.

"We're all highly depressed but we're here to mingle together," said Rocket manager Nicholas Slayton, wearing a T-shirt that read "Hot Toddy," Sanford's nickname at the nightclub.

Slayton said he has known Sanford for nine years and worked for him for four.

"We're running this place now for Todd's kids. I consider him family," he said.

Music was loud in the facility but there were only a handful of early arrivals. Slayton wasn't concerned, saying "the phone was ringing off the hook all day" and he expected a good turnout.

Mike Norris, an artist at Ye Old Skull Tattoo, 241 S. Mechanic St., was visibly shaken Thursday afternoon.

"We co-sponsored concerts. I hung out with him and his family. He was an all-around outgoing man," said Norris, who called Sanford a "really good friend."

Sarah Brownlow, manager of Jackson Coffee Co., 201 S. Mechanic St., said Sanford's business partner, Patrick Colligan, is married to her best friend.

"Todd was a nice family man who was very passionate about his business. There are a lot of people's lives who will be affected by this," she said.

Lewis Moss, co-owner of Shear Elegance, 222 Francis St., next to The Rocket, said he never had any trouble with the nightclub's clientele and often hung posters in his salon promoting Rocket events.

"He (Sanford) seemed like a nice guy. I wasn't expecting anything like that," he said.

Sanford was a state trooper at the Jackson post from June 1997 to September 2004, police said.

He grew up in Au Gres, northeast of Saginaw, and moved to Jackson after graduating from trooper school, Whiting said.

His father remains in Au Gres; his mother lives in Bay City.

He resigned to pursue his business, said Lt. Jim Shaw, the Jackson post commander, who did not work with Sanford.

Sanford liked being a trooper, but "got bored with it," Whiting said.

He and Colligan, a former Department of Corrections officer, opened The Rocket, 216 Francis St., in January 2005.

Colligan was arrested Wednesday on a charge of obstructing police at the suicide scene.

He showed up at the scene of Sanford's suicide armed and was holding an infant, according to the Prosecutor's Office news release. Despite police warnings, he barged through a police barricade, Blumer said.

Colligan remained in jail Thursday. He was expected to be arraigned today.

The two were close friends, Whiting said. Sanford was an honor attendant at Colligan's 2006 wedding.

Colligan is "devastated," said Whiting, who worries about how Sanford now is perceived.

"What he did wasn't who he was," she said. "That was inexcusable what he did, but that wasn't him."