78-year-old man shot three people in rural home before turning gun on self

LINCOLN - A day after an elderly Alcona County man allegedly shot three people in his home before turning the gun on himself, authorities are giving few answers to questions surrounding the shootings.Police identified Edgar O. Wendt, 78, of Lincoln, as the suspect in the shootings that occurred about 8 a.m. Wednesday in Alcona County's Hawes Township, south of Hubbard Lake.

Authorities said they found one of Wendt's victims dead at the scene. Two others are in stable condition at Alpena Regional Medical Center.

On Wednesday, police from at least four agencies formed a large perimeter around Wendt's house, at 607 Miller Rd., starting about 8:30 a.m. The secluded, wooded area drew little public attention given that Wendt's closest neighbor lived a quarter mile away.

Not until late afternoon did Michigan State Police SWAT team members enter Wendt's home. There they found Wendt's body in the basement, where it appeared he'd shot himself, according to Alcona County Sheriff Douglas Atchison.

Police declined to name Wendt's victims but The Alpena News identified the threesome as a 34-year-old woman, 16-year-old boy and 70 year-old man.

"This is a family residence," Atchison said. "Eight people were inside when the shootings started." He added that all but one was related.

The sheriff declined to say what may have provoked Wednesday's shootings or what weapon Wendt used. He said authorities would continue their investigation today.

A phone listed under Edgar Wendt's name went unanswered Wednesday night.

Bruce Ball said he was checking wells in the area at the time of the shootings. He said a young man yelled for help as Ball approached in his truck. Ball said he stopped and saw a woman, whom the young man said was his mother, fall off the home's porch.

A teenage boy then ran out, saying he'd been shot in the head, Ball said.

"I just loaded them up in my truck and got them away from there, before the shooter came out," Ball said.

Before the suspect's death became public, the hospital was put on lockdown to protect the victims and staff, said hospital spokeswoman Staci Chroninger.

"Not knowing why (the shooter) did this, the motive behind it ... it's better to be safe than sorry," Chroninger said.