GRAND RAPIDS -- As he pulled the trigger multiple times on his .357 Ruger revolver, a drunken and angry Chucky Lee Jackson uttered the words "I'm a gangsta," while shooting two people inside the Lady Godiva nightclub.

The description of events in the early morning hours of New Year's Day -- including evidence showing Jackson had a blood-alcohol level nearly four times the legal limit for driving -- is outlined in a Kent County prosecutor's report released today that clears two state police troopers who shot Jackson four times, killing him.

Troopers Roberto Anaya and Chris Bommarito acted in self-defense when Jackson, 29, repeatedly refused orders to drop the gun, firing his last round at troopers inside the club before they fired back, Prosecutor William Forsyth wrote.

"The evidence that Chucky Lee Jackson presented an imminent threat of death or great bodily harm to both Trooper Anaya and Trooper Bommarito is overwhelming," Forsyth said.

Jackson's gun was empty as Bommarito and Anaya chased the suspect out the rear door and fired at him in the parking lot and on Finney Avenue SW, but troopers could not have known that, Forsyth said. And Jackson, who again refused orders to get on the ground and drop the gun, appeared to troopers like he was trying to reload.

Bommarito and Anaya were making a traffic stop about 1:25 a.m. near Lady Godiva's Showgirls Galleria when they responded to the shooting, which Forsyth described as "senseless and tragic," appearing to be "triggered by nothing more than two people accidentally bumping into one another as they passed on a flight of stairs."

Jackson exchanged words with Howard Harris, 27, and Oscar Mateo, 25, as they brushed shoulders in a stairway leading to a pool room. Moments later, Harris was knocked to the floor and a gunman pulled out the revolver and fired into his chest. The gunman walked into the pool room, shot Lady Godiva employee Michael Gritzmaker in the neck as he tried to take cover, then returned to an unconscious Harris and fired two more rounds into his chest.

The gunman then fired another round into the bar area ceiling before firing the sixth bullet at the arriving troopers, Forsyth's report shows. Gritzmaker and Harris are expected to fully recover.

An autopsy showed Jackson was hit three times by Bommarito's .12-gauge shotgun, one a fatal wound to the chest, and once by Anaya's .40-caliber Sig Sauer handgun.