PONTIAC – Nakia Wynns and her two cousins huddled together in the biting cold on Dwight Street in Pontiac on Thursday, still coming to grips with the fact their cousin and brother, Juawan Otis, 22, of Pontiac, had been shot and killed by police earlier that day just down the street.

“He was a family man with four kids and he was engaged,” Wynns said. Standing to the side was a grim-faced Fatine Williams, Juawan Otis’ fiancee.

“We’re very upset,” Wynns said. “We want to find out the truth.”

Police say a man — identified by his family as Juawan Otis — was sitting in the back of a car parked in an apartment building parking lot at 94 Dwight Avenue near Liberty around 4 a.m. Two patrol officers pulled in behind the vehicle to investigate.

Pontiac Police Chief Valard Gross said police were in the area because “we have been getting complaints about drug sales and shots fired in the area, so officers were on patrol there.”

Police put their patrol car spotlights on the car, Gross said.

The two officers — both 11-year veterans — got out of their patrol car. One officer walked toward the car on the passenger side and the other walked toward the car on the driver’s side.

Two women were in the front and Otis was in the back seat, said police.

The passenger side officer said Otis had a handgun. Gross said Otis was pointing the gun toward the driver side officer.

“The (passenger side) officer immediately shouted, ‘Drop the gun,’ ” Gross said, “and this has been corroborated by witnesses.”

Otis continued to raise his gun, Gross said.

The passenger side officer fired four rounds from his duty weapon through the vehicle’s window and struck Otis three times, Gross said.

Gross said the shots were fired in self-defense.

“He pointed the gun at the officers and the officer stopped a threat,” Gross said.

Paramedics were called to the scene to render aid. Otis was transported to an area hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 4:45 a.m.

The two women in the vehicle along with the other officer were not injured, police reported.

A handgun was recovered from the car and the incident is under investigation.

Gross said the officers are on administrative leave.

“They are doing fine, but a little shaken up,” Gross said. “They are getting proper assistance and counseling.”

The women were at the police department being questioned Thursday morning, Gross said.

The Oakland County Sheriff ‘s Office is conducting an internal investigation.

“We don’t want any signs of impropriety,” Gross said. “It looks like an officer, due to training and keen observation, stopped his partner from being shot.”

Gross said Otis had a “long criminal history. One to two weeks ago, he was arrested for carrying a concealed weapon. He was booked, processed and released.”

Gross said he wasn’t aware yet if drugs were found at the scene.

“Crime scene investigation is still going on,” he said. “This was guys doing the wrong thing. It could have been a drug deal.”

Gross praised the officers.

“They are two fine officers, two of our most decorated. They did a great job,” he said. “It was self defense. It’s unfortunate, but thank God no one else was injured.”

Mayor Clarence Phillips said police shootings, such as the one Thursday, are infrequent.

“It hasn’t happened very often in Pontiac that I can remember,” he said.

Past trouble around

Dwight Street

Gross called the Dwight Street neighborhood — between Elizabeth Lake Road and Huron Street — a highcrime area.

Mayor Phillips said Thursday’s incident “was borne out of citizen complaints in that area.”

In January 2008, a man told police he was shot in the 30 block of Dwight Street about 3:30 a.m. in what police called a drive-by shooting.

On Sept. 9, Scott Wilson, 29, of Waterford, was sitting in his car at 7:20 a.m. on Dwight when, according to reports, a man identified as Malcolm Shabazz Wallace — who goes by the street name “Cash Money” — approached Wilson, demanded money and then shot him. Wilson is now paralyzed. A court case is pending against Wallace, according to Oakland County Circuit Court records.

One woman who has lived on Dwight Street for eight years — who asked to remain anonymous for fear of retaliation — said she heard “four or five shots” in the night Thursday.

“I was too afraid to go downstairs in my own house,” she said. “I basically stayed in my house and prayed.”

When she finally did venture down, she said she saw what looked like “the entire Pontiac police force” on her street.

“It’s not unusual to hear gunshots and people arguing,” she said.

She said she saw people shooting at each other outdoors in the daytime last summer.

“When I called police, they hung up because I couldn’t give them a description of the shooter.”

She has complained about the crime in the area in the past but she believes the situation is “not getting better, it’s getting worse.

“It’s horrible. It’s too bad because a lot of decent people live here.”

She believed a nearby apartment complex is part of the problem.

“It’s infested with drug dealers and prostitutes. It’s getting so bad, people think they’re above the law. In this area, there is no law. They need to bring in outside help.”

Family and friends

grieving

On Thursday, 26-year-old Larry Williams — one of Otis’ friends — was out walking near Dwight Street.

Williams said he had learned about Otis’ death from Otis’ fiancee.

“I just saw him last night about 11 o’clock,” he said. “We watched some of the Lakers game on TV. “I imagined he was going home.”

Williams said Otis lived in the Rochester area.

Williams was visibly upset over the shooting and also with the police department.

“I wish the state police would take over (Pontiac’s police department),” he said. “Pontiac has too many relatives working there instead of hiring the best people for the job.”

As he spoke about his brother, Martel Taylor acknowledged Otis recently had a problem over carrying a gun.

“We’re not saying he was perfect,” said Taylor. “All of us have done things in our past.”

Fatine Williams said Juawan Otis had children whose ages are 8 months, 2, 3 and 7. Juawan Otis’ sister, Kayla Otis, defended her deceased brother. He worked as a mover for a moving company, she said. “He wasn’t the type of person the police are saying,” she said. Taylor said his whole family was angry. “We heard a lot of conflicting stories from police,” said Taylor, 36.

Police Chief Gross disagreed, saying the family talked with one investigator and that “no one told them different stories.

“We only are telling what we are telling (the media),” he said. “I can understand people being upset.”