GRAND RAPIDS -- Police found cocaine, cash and a loaded .45-caliber pistol in a car that crashed after the 21-year-old driver fled police along Plainfield Avenue NE early Friday.The amount of drugs and cash was not disclosed, although Grand Rapids Police Sgt. Steve Labrecque described the cash as "significant."

James Cortez Escobar was driving his mother's 1994 Ford Mustang when he hit a tree near Creston High School not long after 2 a.m., about one-and-a-half miles from where police stopped pursuing the car.

He died of multiple injuries. Witnesses reported the car may have been going as fast as 100 mph when the driver lost control, the driver-side door hitting the tree and snapping off the 8-inch trunk.

The pursuit began after a Kent County sheriff's deputy noticed two "suspicious" vehicles going through a bank drive-through on Plainfield at Rupert Street, near Four Mile Road. The deputy witnessed a traffic violation as the vehicles turned south on Plainfield and he tried to stop the Mustang, but it sped away.

He chased the Mustang to about Three Mile Road, but discontinued the pursuit because the car was too far ahead and the weather was poor. The deputy notified Grand Rapids Police.

Soon after, police learned of a car crash at Plainfield Avenue and Dale Street and discovered it was the Mustang, Labrecque said.

Police were not pursuing the car when it crashed, Labrecque said.

Kent County Undersheriff Jon Hess said the safety of other motorists is paramount when police decide to chase a vehicle. Deputies stay in contact with supervisors and call off pursuits if they become too dangerous.

Escobar was a noted basketball player at Lee High School in 2004 and 2005 when he attended Godfrey-Lee Schools.

He had a valid driver's license on Friday, but it had been suspended twice in the past related to a drug conviction and failure to appear for a hearing on an open intoxicants charge.

Court records show Escobar was sentenced to jail and two years probation in August 2007 for delivery or manufacture of marijuana and carrying a concealed weapon.

E-mail John Tunison: jtunison@grpress.com