A brother of Terrance "Terry" Wheeler said police were right to shoot Wheeler as he stabbed his former girlfriend last week on Maltby Street in Jackson.

He just regrets it ended as it did.

"I can't change it now. I can't change what happened, but I wish it would have never happened," said John Wheeler, 61. "There was nothing I could do. I didn't know Terry was going to do this. I had no idea he was going to do this."At a press conference Wednesday, Prosecutor Hank Zavislak said Jackson police Sgt. Michael Gleeson was justified in killing Wheeler, 58, on May 27 inside the house Wheeler once shared with Dorothy Holliday, 43.

Police and prosecutors said Wheeler hit Holliday, a mother of two and a care home kitchen employee, on the head with a crow bar and stabbed her with a kitchen knife, causing her death.

"A police officer can use deadly force when their life or the life of someone else is in imminent danger," Zavislak said.

The officer is not to be charged with a crime and likely will soon head back to work.

Gleeson and Officer Chad Dermyer, who was dispatched with him to the stabbing scene, are on paid administrative leave pending the conclusion of an internal police department investigation, Chief Matt Heins said. The investigation should end later this week or early next week.

Heins said before returning to their jobs, they will undergo a "fitness for duty" evaluation with a psychologist.

Gleeson and Dermyer arrived at 815 Maltby St. after a neighbor reported Wheeler's brother, Daniel, had been stabbed and was on the front lawn.

Daniel Wheeler was taken to Allegiance Health. He has since been released and is staying in an adult care facility, his brother said.

The two officers entered the house and saw Terrance Wheeler dart from the kitchen to the bathroom and close the door. Gleeson kicked open the bathroom door and saw Wheeler "plunging the knife into Ms. Holliday who was on the bathroom floor," according to the release.

He ordered Wheeler to drop the knife, and Wheeler continued to stab Holliday. The sergeant fired at Wheeler, who fell and continued to stab Holliday, the prosecutor's office reported. Gleeson then shot more times, killing Wheeler.

Holliday likely was already dead, but Gleeson could not have known that, Chief Assistant Prosecutor Mark Blumer said.

John Wheeler said it did not seem necessary to shoot Wheeler so many times — Blumer said Gleeson fired nine times — but John Wheeler acknowledged his brother's strength. "He was big and he was strong. No one could put Terry down."

John Wheeler said his real concern was with Allegiance Health, which released Terrance Wheeler from its psychiatric ward the day of the stabbing.

A hospital spokesman said Allegiance could make no comment about Wheeler.

"If they would have left him in the hospital, this would have never happened," John Wheeler said.

Terrance Wheeler had been hospitalized after he attempted suicide, possibly due to Holliday's recent efforts to end their relationship, according to the news release.

"The only time Terry was violent was that night. He was always like a big bear," his brother said. "He wasn't violent. He just flipped out that night."

Terrance Wheeler's former wife, Rosann Wheeler, and a previous girlfriend, Karen Lasky, had personal protection orders against him, but all three of them lived together even after the orders were signed, John Wheeler said.