MIDLAND -- State police from the Gladwin Post were investigating a crash that resulted in the death of a Midland teen.

Samantha L. Frederickson, 18, died about 11:30 p.m. Friday along Water near Fike in Edenville Township.

Police say the teen was driving a 2007 Chevrolet Impala as she tried to elude police in a pursuit that began in Gladwin and lasted more than 30 minutes.

The pursuit started when a Gladwin officer tried to stop the woman for doing 63 mph in a 35 mph zone, said Gladwin Police Chief Charles P. Jones.

"But it got a lot faster," the chief said. "Into the triple digits."

The chief said he didn't want to comment on the chase, saying the state police are investigating.

State police are not saying how many police cars, or what agencies, eventually got involved in the pursuit, but said it was "many."

"It's pretty tragic, I wish it didn't happen," Jones said of the death. "But we can only control so many things."

Frederickson's funeral will start at 11 a.m. Thursday at the Wilson Miller Funeral Home, with the Rev. M. T. Murray of Abundant Life Baptist Church officiating. Interment will take place next to her brother, Mickey "Max" Frederickson, in Homer Township Cemetery.

Friends may visit with family members at the funeral home from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Wednesday, then from 10 a.m. to the time of service Thursday.

Frederickson is the daughter of Ronnie and Pamela Frederickson. She has a 6-month old daughter, Hailey Skye Frederickson, who was not with her when the crash occurred.

She also is survived by siblings Roberta, Tiffany, Ronnie, Jessy and Nikki Frederickson, all of Midland.

She was predeceased by her sister, Stephanei, and Mickey Frederickson, who died at age 7 on Aug. 28, 2004, from injuries he suffered the previous day when a car struck him as he crossed the road.

The incident occurred in front of the Frederickson family's home on North Eight Mile near M-20. A 26-year-old Sanford man was driving the car that struck the youth.