MUSKEGON — A Muskegon police officer who

was being severely beaten about the head and feared for his life when he pulled the trigger, according to Muskegon County Prosecutor Tony Tague.

Tague cleared Officer Charles Anderson, 38, of any wrongdoing in the Sept. 23 death of Julius Ray Johnson of Muskegon with the release Thursday of a 12-page legal opinion.

The investigation of the shooting was conducted by the Michigan State Police.

Anderson, a 12-year-veteran, suffered critical head injuries during a struggle with Johnson that followed a foot chase. The officer was beaten with his police radio and another “blunt object,” according to material presented by Tague.

The fractures and lacerations Anderson sustained were “consistent with numerous severe blows to the head,” Tague said, adding that the officer has been left with a metal plate in his head.

The prosecutor said the officer could have died and the evidence gathered during the extensive investigation showed he was “justified in using deadly force.”

The incident that ended with Johnson’s death began with a 1:20 a.m. traffic stop on Terrace Street and ended several minutes later after a foot chase and scuffle and then the fatal shot.

Dent found Anderson at 1:33:16 a.m. Fellow officers rushed him to the hospital in a police cruiser. Tague said other officers tried to help Johnson. “You can tell by the dispatch tape they are administering medical aid,” Tague said.

Johnson appeared to have an arm wound. “The officers immediately put compresses on the wound to try to stop the bleeding. It was bleeding profusely,” Tague said.

Johnson was transported by ambulance to Mercy Health Partners Mercy Campus where he later died. The left arm wound was a “contact” wound, meaning the muzzle of the gun was close to the body when it was fired. The bullet went through the arm and into the left chest wall. The autopsy noted there were no cuts or scratches to Johnson’s facial area.

A toxicology report revealed that Johnson had several drugs in his system when he died. The drugs were identified as a cocaine metabolite, codeine, morphine, Vicodin (a painkiller), a morphine derivative and a marijuana metabolite.

In reaching his decision, Tague said Anderson was left with no alternative but to use deadly force to protect his life. His flashlight was dropped during the pursuit and Johnson had taken all of the officer’s other nonlethal weapons.

Tague said the investigation determined that Johnson’s sister, Tunisia Phillips, intentionally lied to state police investigators and fabricated a story to distort events leading up to the fatal shooting. She told police and television reporters that she heard her brother begging for his life before Anderson shot him. Phillips also said she saw the confrontation between the two men from her Terrace Street home.

Tague said that when state police canvassed the neighborhood it was discovered that a resident on Pine Street had installed a video camera on the alley side of his home. Because of the darkness at the time of the incident and the direction the camera pointed, no useful video was recorded, but the audio from the device “was quite distinct,” Tague said.

It aided the investigation and also helped determine that Phillips was lying. Tague said he plans to charge her next week with falsely reporting a felony, which is a 4-year felony offense.

Johnson was on parole and Tague criticized the Department of Corrections for not returning Johnson to prison after several violations. Tague said Johnson twice violated parole by using drugs, failed to report for an appointment and also did not notify the local parole office when he changed addresses.