Center Line Public Safety officials continued Thursday to investigate the fatal shooting of a local 40-year-old man by officers. Jeffrey Lynn Wanks was shot when he leveled a loaded, double-barrel shotgun at officers who responded to a domestic disturbance call at 1:17 a.m. Wednesday in the 25000 block of Lorraine Boulevard, near 10 Mile Road, Public Safety Director John Riley said. The owner of the home had phoned police and reported that a tenant was argumentative throughout the night and at one point shoved her. She told officers who arrived that the man was in the basement and had a shotgun. Riley said officers at the top of the stairs conversed with Wanks. The director refused to specify what the Center Line man said to officers, pending completion of the investigation. “They hadn’t seen him yet; he was around the corner. They were asking him to come upstairs and such,” Riley said. “All of a sudden he came around the corner. That’s when he leveled the shotgun at officers.” Officials initially reported Wednesday that two officers fired a total of six shots at Wanks, striking him twice. Further review revealed the officers fired seven shots. Two struck Wanks in the abdomen and the third went through one of his hands. Doctors at Henry Ford Macomb Hospital-Warren Campus declared him dead at 2:09 a.m. Wednesday. He had been drinking, but officials await the results of blood and urine tests to determine whether he was intoxicated at the time, Riley said. That report won’t be available for several weeks. No officers were injured in the incident. The two officers who fired their guns remained on previously scheduled days off Thursday. One may go on paid administrative leave — standard procedure following a shooting by police — upon return, Riley said. Investigators hope to complete their reports and submit them to the Macomb County Prosecutor’s Office next week for review. Prosecutors routinely examine incidents where police used lethal force to determine if officers were justified in their actions or if they committed a crime. Center Line Public Safety officers had no prior contacts with Wanks, Riley said. The homeowner — Wanks’ former girlfriend — allowed him to stay in a room in the basement while he repaired the house. He resided there approximately six months.