THREE RIVERS —

A 19-year-old man who crashed his car during a police pursuit last month near Three Rivers, killing his passenger, died this morning at University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor, authorities said.

Kevin Glass, of Three Rivers, had been hospitalized since suffering critical injuries in a Nov. 3 crash that killed Keriann McLain, 19, of Three Rivers.

Meanwhile, St. Joseph County Prosecutor John McDonough said the probe continues into determining who provided the alcohol that investigators believe was a factor in the pursuit and crash.

“This is a shining example of how alcohol, youthfulness and careless driving can create a very tragic outcome,” McDonough said Wednesday in a news release. “It is extremely sad that one poor decision by Mr. Glass ended up killing two young people ... Underage drinking is a problem in our county and those who choose to supply alcohol to minors or a place for minors to consume alcohol will be prosecuted for their actions.”

McLain was ejected from Glass’ 1986 Ford Mustang when it crashed at 11:57 p.m. on Buckhorn Road, northeast of downtown Three Rivers. She was pronounced dead at the scene.

A Michigan State Police crash investigator said a Three Rivers police officer had tried to stop Glass at Portage Avenue and Walnut Street for having a taillight that was not working properly. Glass fled and police gave chase.

About two miles from where police tried to stop Glass, police said Glass traveled around a curve on Buckhorn near Scott Lane at an excessive speed and lost control. The Mustang ran off the east side of the road and struck a fire hydrant, several tree stumps and boulders.

Police said the Mustang went airborne and was in the air upside down when it struck another tree and came to rest. McLain was not wearing a seatbelt during the crash.

Investigators said Glass was belted.

The state police investigator determined that the Three Rivers officer acted appropriately and was not close enough to Glass at the time of the crash to witness it. McDonough said Wednesday that police couldn’t have done anything to prevent the crash.