CONSTANTINE —

Michigan State Police are continuing to probe a crash Tuesday that killed a Sturgis man who fled from police in St. Joseph County, authorities said.

Robert Porter, 37, was pronounced dead at the scene of the 2 p.m. crash on South Washington Street in Constantine.

The crash occurred after Constantine police and State Police Trooper Trever Slater tried to stop Porter, who was a suspect in a shoplifting incident reported at 1:30 p.m. at the Walgreens store in Three Rivers, police said.

Mike Mohney, a detective with the Three Rivers Police Department, said the suspect in the theft had walked up to a cashier with several items and ran without paying after they had been placed in a bag.

A caller to St. Joseph County Central Dispatch told a dispatcher the getaway vehicle had fled south. The caller provided a license plate number and a description of the suspect.

Mohney said the plate number was registered to Porter and dispatchers alerted police to be on the lookout for a 2001 Chrysler Sebring.

Constantine Police Chief Jim Bedell said he later spotted Porter’s vehicle headed south on Featherstone Road and attempted to stop it. Porter fled, the chief said, and a second Constantine officer gave chase with Bedell.

Bedell said a passenger traveling with Porter, a 44-year-old Sturgis man, jumped out of the Sebring, which had slowed down on East Water Street. The passenger’s name has not been released because he has not been arraigned.

Bedell said he chased the passenger and arrested him on charges of absconding from parole, possession of marijuana and possession of Vicodin.

A Constantine officer continued to chase Porter. Slater also joined the pursuit as Porter was heading south on South Washington Street and was the lead car when the fatal crash occurred, State Police Sgt. Jim Campbell said.

During the pursuit, Porter was traveling at a high speed, swerving in and out of traffic and passing in a no-passing zone, police said.

Campbell said Porter was passing other southbound vehicles around a curve on Washington when he ran off the road’s shoulder and then turned sideways in the northbound lane where he was struck on the driver’s side door by a Dodge Caravan driven by Maurice Harrison, 35, of Constantine.

Campbell said Slater was “some distance behind” Porter at the time and when Slater rounded the corner the crash had already occurred.

Campbell said Porter suffered internal injuries in the crash. Harrison, who Campbell said was traveling at a speed of 10 to 15 mph when the crash occurred, was not injured.

Mohney, who responded to the scene of the fatal crash, said the items taken from the Walgreens store were recovered from Porter’s Sebring. They included cologne, laundry detergent, lotion and a razor.

Mohney said that Porter matched the description of the suspect in the theft from Walgreens.

The detective said police plan to close the case in light of Porter’s death and do not plan to pursue charges related to the shoplifting against Porter’s passenger because witnesses said he was not in the store when the theft occurred.

Campbell said he is awaiting the results of toxicology tests performed on Porter and he is also still trying to determine what speed Porter was traveling at when the fatal crash occurred.

While he had yet to make a determination on the speed Wednesday, the sergeant said “it was significant.”

Contact Rex Hall Jr. at rhall@kalamazoogazette.com or (269) 388-7784.