Jacob Walz once went to New York, but told his sister he never wanted to go back.

"He didn't like the big city. He likes the country. He liked the fields. He liked the open," said his sister Amber Walz, who wants to remember her brother as a man who valued family and enjoyed the outdoors.

Jacob Walz of Waterloo Township died Saturday in what police believe was an alcohol-related crash in Homer. Police said he tried to flee a traffic stop, he lost control of his vehicle, and the car hit a tree.

"I don't want people to remember him as that," said his sister, 20. "He wasn't that type of person to go do something stupid like that, to drink and drive."

A Homer officer turned on his emergency lights and siren and tried to stop Walz about 2:06 a.m. as Walz headed west on M-60 near Webster Street in Homer, said Calhoun County Sheriff's Capt. Matt Saxton.

The officer had earlier seen Walz's car go over a pedestrian bridge south of M-60 in the east part of the village.

Walz, who was not wearing a seat belt, immediately accelerated and drove about 3/4 mile on M-60. He tried to veer west on W. Main Street and lost control. His car struck a tree between W. Main Street and M-60, Saxton said.

He was driving faster than 80 mph, according to a sheriff's office news release.

Authorities pronounced him dead at the scene.

The crash remains under investigation by the sheriff's office accident reconstruction team.

Saxton said Walz was leaving The Homer Mill, a restaurant, bar and haunted house.

Amber Walz said she was not sure who her brother had been with or what he was doing.

He had been living with his mother in the Homer area, his sister said.

A 2004 Stockbridge High School graduate, he grew up in Waterloo Township, where he lived with his father, Dennis, and his sister.

His grandparents, who own a farm, lived nearby and he spent a lot of time with them. He always was busy helping, said his grandmother, Mary Ann Walz, who called his death "a real shock."

Saturday, he was to come cut wood with his dad, she said.

She said he liked tractors, especially Farmall tractors, and assisted in the past with area tractor shows. His sister said he was a NASCAR fan who enjoyed hunting deer, squirrels and rabbits.

Since high school, he worked at Mason Elevator Co. for about two years and was currently employed at Horton Farms near Tekonsha, his grandmother said.

She said he had expressed an interest in doing electrical work, and she tried to encourage him to go to Jackson Community College.

Amber Walz said she was not sure of his plans. "He was too young."

She said she and her brother were close. They confided in each other. She cut his hair. Together as kids, they would play hockey on a pond at the farm, said Amber, who recently joined the Air Force.

Jacob told her he wasn't going to come see her graduate from basic training this summer in Texas, but one of his friends told Amber he had planned to go. A jokester who almost constantly picked on her, she figures he intended to surprise her.