Update: Sheriff's deputy who shot and killed man in Cascade Township identified

CASCADE TOWNSHIP -- At a birthday party for his twin 8-year-old nephews last week, Christopher James Grundy was acting like a kid himself, wrestling and horsing around with the children as the guests smiled and looked on.

Grundy's half-brother, Ben Rawlings, said the family is having a hard time reconciling that image with what Kent County Sheriff's deputies say happened on a rural road early Saturday, moments before a deputy fired on Grundy's car, killing him.

Police say Grundy, 20, was fatally shot after rammed a sheriff's deputy's car after a high-speed chase, then charged another officer with his vehicle, prompting the officer to fire his weapon.

"I'm just trying to figure this out," said Rawlings, 24, of Norton Shores and father of the twin boys. "It's hard for me to take this in. I've never known my brother as a person who would hurt anyone.

"Him trying to hit a police officer isn't something that he would do."

Grundy's family said he was living with friends, and they didn't know where he had been in the hours before the police chase and shooting.

According to radio dispatch traffic of the 1:30 a.m. incident, Grundy's car struck a deputy's cruiser less than four minutes after police started pursuing the vehicle. A minute after that, there were reports of shots fired.

"I was out of my vehicle," an unidentified deputy told police dispatchers seconds after the shooting. "He tried to come at me."

Saturday's deadly incident was touched off when police attempted to stop the suspect's red Honda, which they said was traveling more than 100 mph and ran a stop sign at 36th Street SE and Buttrick Avenue. Grundy did not pull over, and a short pursuit occurred.

Deputies chased the vehicle south on Snow Avenue to the dead-end near I-96.

Sheriff's Lt. Kevin Kelley said deputies tried to make contact with the suspect near this dead-end turn-around on a dirt road, but the Honda rammed a deputy's cruiser. The impact caused air bags in Grundy's vehicle to deploy.

The suspect then "charged at a deputy" with his vehicle, prompting the deputy to fire on Grundy, Kelley said.

The suspect was hit, but continued to drive north on Snow Avenue, where the Honda came to rest just north of Cascade Road. Police say Grundy then left the vehicle and attempted to flee on foot. He collapsed a short distance away.

According to radio dispatch traffic, Grundy was shot in the left shoulder. Deputies called for an ambulance for the suspect about six minutes into the incident. About 12 minutes into the incident, they noted they were starting chest compressions.

Cascade Township rescue workers arrived to take over the medical care, but Grundy died at the scene, Kelley said.

Authorities say Grundy, who was alone in the car, was driving on a suspended license at the time of the incident.

The two deputies involved were not injured, and have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard practice for a shooting investigation.

Grundy, a 2008 graduate of Saranac High School, worked for a deer processor and at a Saranac-area manufacturer.

Rawlings said he heard from both supervisors that Grundy was a hard worker.

Grundy's MySpace page on the Internet shows his deep affection for his family, including his excitement over the birth of a niece, and a picture of his grandparents.

His mother, Sandra Dahl of Belding, said Grundy would have turned 21 on June 6. "He was a great kid. He could make people laugh."

In addition to Dahl and Rawlings, Grundy is survived by his father, Rick Grundy and stepfather, Darin Dahl, both of Belding; brothers David Grundy and Patrick Grundy, both of Greenville, and Rick Grundy Jr. of Kentucky; and sisters McKenzie Dahl and Veronyka Dahl of Belding.

This was the second officer-related fatal shooting in as many months for area police. On March 18, a Grand Rapids Police officer shot and killed Gabriel Hood, 33, after police said the parole absconder pulled a gun on the officer after a traffic stop and refused to drop it.

E-mail Shandra Martinez: smartinez@grpress.com and follow her on Twitter at twitter.com/shandramartinez