Officials have released the name of the man who was killed in a police chase accident last week on Interstate 75 in Troy. Brian Patrick Wiltfang, 50, of Lake Orion died late Thursday night after his Eagle Talon collided with another vehicle while Wiltfang was driving the wrong way on northbound I-75. Police began chasing Wiltfang around 11:44 p.m. Thursday after he drove past an officer on eastbound Big Beaver Road. Wiltfang’s headlights were off, so the officer attempted to stop him near the intersection of Big Beaver and John R roads. Wiltfang pulled into a gas station in the area but then drove away, reaching speeds of 80 mph, according to police. Another Troy police officer noticed the Talon — with the headlights on — entering northbound I-75 near Rochester Road. Wiltfang turned the headlights off just before reaching Adams Road, at which point, Troy police terminated the pursuit, according to information released after the accident. The Bloomfield Township and Auburn Hills police departments were then notified of the pursuit, and officers followed the vehicle as it exited at Square Lake Road, made a U-turn, collided with a Traffic Safety Unit vehicle and continued southbound on northbound I-75. The police vehicle suffered minor damage, and the damage to the Talon at that point was unknown. While driving southbound on northbound I-75, Wiltfang drove past three Troy police vehicles which were headed to the scene of the accident involving the Traffic Safety Unit. Police said Wiltfang drove on the right shoulder of the freeway to avoid the police vehicles. Police estimated the Talon’s speed at 90 mph at that point. Wiltfang lost control of the car around 11:58 p.m., sliding sideways into a 2000 Volvo S40 driven by a 60-year-old Bloomfield Hills man. The driver’s side of the Talon struck the Volvo, causing the Talon to roll over and ejecting Wiltfang from the car. He died at the scene of the accident. The Volvo suffered extensive front-end and driver’s side damage, and its driver suffered non-life-threatening injuries. Police did not have an update on that man’s condition. Troy Police Department Lt. Michael Lyczkowski said the accident is still under investigation. An autopsy has been performed, but toxicology results are not yet available. Police are not sure why Wiltfang fled. Lyczkowski would not say if Wiltfang had a criminal record. “We don’t really know any more than we knew (the night the accident happened),” Lyczkowski said. “We’re still plugging away at it.” Contact staff writer Dave Phillips at 248-745-4631 or

dave.phillips@oakpress.com

. Follow him on Twitter @dave_phillips1.