GRAND RAPIDS -- Relatives of a 22-year-old

Grandville woman killed early Sunday

when an SUV crashed with a police cruiser are questioning whether the officer may have been going too fast.

But a police investigator does not believe the officer was going too fast.

Julie Mae Wright-Allen died in the 1:05 a.m. crash at Cherry Street SW and Business Route U.S. 131.

She was in a GMC Jimmy with her husband, Ron Allen, 29, and two others when the Jimmy went through a red flashing light and collided with a Grand Rapids police cruiser driven by Officer Greg Bauer. The SUV flipped over and Wright-Allen sustained fatal head injuries.

Bauer, who was about to get on the freeway, had the right of way, with a flashing yellow light.

"You are not going to tell me that, going 25 mph, you are going to flip an SUV," said Allen's mother, Vicky Westbrook. "There is no way you are going to flip that."

Grand Rapids police Sgt. Steve Labrecque doesn't believe the officer was driving too fast. The crash is still under investigation.

"Nothing appears crazy," he said. "The bottom line is the car blew the red flasher. It's an SUV and it got turned around and over it went.

"The officer clearly saw the vehicle coming, hit the brakes and tried to avoid them, but could not," Labrecque said.

Allen's relatives say Julie Wright-Allen was driving the SUV, although Labrecque said the position of the vehicle's four occupants is still under investigation because of conflicting accounts.

Wright-Allen was a mother of two girls, ages 2 and 1-month, and worked at the Cracker Barrel restaurant in Grandville. She was on maternity leave.

Toni Vogelsong, a sister-in-law, described her as a doting mother. The couple was married three months ago, but have been together about two years, she said.

"We have families that are completely torn apart by this," she said. "Her children and her husband were her life."

Police said the occupants of the SUV had just come from a Division Avenue bar before the crash. Police are looking at alcohol as a possible contributing factor in the crash.

E-mail John Tunison:

jtunison@grpress.com