Believing Elvin D. Potts a danger, Blackman Township Public Safety Officer Darin McIntosh decided after midnight March 9 to put Potts in handcuffs.

RELATED STORY

Assisted by a Jackson police officer, McIntosh had one cuff on Elvin D. Potts’ right wrist when Potts, on his knees over his couch, reached into the sofa and pulled out .357-caliber magnum revolver.

With his left hand, Potts fired four times. One round hit McIntosh, who was on a knee at Potts’ right, in the thigh. Another hit Jackson Police Officer James Bonneau, standing, but bent over at Pott's left, in the armpit area, penetrating his chest.

McIntosh then shot Potts twice in the back of the head, killing him, authorities said today at a press conference in the basement of the Jackson County courthouse.

Prosecutor Hank Zavislak said McIntosh’s actions were both necessary and “completely justified.”

“It is clear to me that had Officer McIntosh not returned the fire of the assailant, we would have attended two police funerals,” Zavislak said, reading a statement. “The officer fired in self-defense of himself and his fellow officer after both of them had already been shot by the suspect.”

McIntosh went about 12:20 a.m. March 9 to Potts’ home on Mitchell Street in Jackson after Potts made a series of harassing and threatening phone calls to his wife, Sarah.

Potts had showed up at Sarah Potts’ apartment in Blackman Township and pounded on her door. Sarah Potts, living separate from her husband, hid in the closet while her daughter, Melinda Caudill, called 911, according to a prosecutor's office news release.

McIntosh went to the apartment, but Potts was not there.

The officer heard messages Potts had earlier left. There were four or five of them, all of them laced with profanity. “I hope you die. I don’t give a f---- if you die,” Potts said in one message, played by a sheriff’s lieutenant.

While the officer was at Sarah Potts’ home, Elvin Potts called several more times. McIntosh answered one of the calls and told Potts he needed to talk with him, according to the news release.

Potts told McIntosh to come to his home at 140 Mitchell St., which McIntosh did.

Bonneau, called to assist, arrived two to three minutes later.

He entered the house about the time McIntosh decided to put Potts in handcuffs. Potts charged at them and the three wrestled in the living room.

From the point Bonneau entered the house, to the time the final shot was fired took about 28 seconds, according to the release.