GRAND RAPIDS -- A pair of teens who crashed a stolen car into a tree on Aug. 14 while running from police have died as a result of their traumatic injuries, according to Grand Rapids police.

Phillip Jerome Patterson, 16, died Friday and 17-year-old James Anthony Tyrone Bartee died Thursday, police said today. The teens were taken to Saint Mary's Health Care in critical condition and lingered for several days before dying.

According to police reports, a Ford Taurus and cash were reported stolen at gunpoint on the 600 block of High Street SW on Aug. 14 just before midnight.

Officers say they saw the stolen vehicle traveling north on Caulfield Avenue, a one-way southbound street. Police signaled for the car to pull over, but before officers could get to the car the driver sped off, police said.

The vehicle crashed and landed near the front steps of Mount Moriah Baptist Worship Center, 892 Caulfield Ave. SW.

Police were able to remove the car's passenger and begin first aid, but the driver was pinned in the car for about 20 minutes as fire and rescue crews worked to free him. A revolver believed to have been used in the alleged carjacking was found in the Ford Taurus, police said.

Police say excessive speed was the likely cause of the crash along roads where 25 mph is posted.

An internal review of the pursuit is being conducted to make sure that all procedures were followed.

"A preliminary view on the incident, including in-car video, shows that (police) acted appropriately and according to procedure," said Grand Rapids Police Chief Kevin Belk. "These were armed robbery suspects and a firearm was found in the car."

Both teens have extensive juvenile court records.

Patterson's charges include marijuana possession, attempted home invasion, breaking and entering and tampering with property not his own, according to records. Bartee's charges include resisting police, carrying a concealed weapon and attempted larceny.

The court record mentions that both teens had gang affiliations and both were recommended to receive residential treatment in an effort to rehabilitate them.

Bartee is survived by his mother, Phillys Hayes of Grand Rapids. Patterson is survived by his mother, Cassandra Patterson of Wyoming. Attempts by The Press to contact family members were not successful.

A funeral service for Bartee is planned for 11 a.m. Thursday at Mount Zion Church of God in Christ, 718 Lafayette Ave. SE. Visitation is planned for between 2 and 7 p.m. on Wednesday at Toombs Funeral Chapel in Muskegon.

Funeral arrangements for Patterson were unknown.

E-mail Barton Deiters: bdeiters@grpress.com and follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/GRPBarton