GRAND RAPIDS – Four days after quitting his lucrative $200,000 a year job in Amway's information technology department, Sean McLafferty apparently killed a co-worker he was having an affair with and later stuffed her body in a trash can, police revealed in applications for search warrants.

The court records, which were recently unsealed, provide some insight into the final days of McLafferty, a 34-year-old whose life was spiraling out of control and his girlfriend, Kristie Rae Purcey, who was found dead on Nov. 22.

The Grand Rapids man, who later killed himself in Mecosta County, had been arrested in October and charged with third-offense drunken driving. There was a warrant for his arrest.

He was sending bizarre text messages to his ex-wife and in one early morning phone call on Nov. 22 he dropped the bombshell that “he was sorry for making things worse, he had ruined his family's name, that he had killed the girl he had been seeing with a knife,” an affidavit shows.

When McLafferty's ex-wife pressed him for details, he declined to elaborate beyond “it was an accident...she came at me with a knife,” records show.

Police later found Purcey's body inside the garage at the 2112 Wyndham Hill Dr. apartment they lived in together. She had been stabbed to death and hidden in a trash can, documents show.

Security images from Meijer show McLafferty buying a similar receptacle and towels used to cover a cut-out and blood-saturated area of carpet inside the apartment on Nov. 13.

No one had heard from Purcey, 32, since Nov. 12, records show. McLafferty quit Amway on Nov. 8, the company said.

Concern over McLafferty's bizarre behavior was first expressed by his ex-wife on Nov. 19. She visited the Grand Rapids Police Department and informed them he had been depressed and drinking heavily. She was concerned for his welfare.

On that day, McLafferty texted her “By Love, Death is my only option,” and “I won't see you again, Death Chamber...you'll see.”

Police tried to contact McLafferty at the apartment, but were unsuccessful. They checked back again and McLafferty was not home.

The search later expanded after Purcey was found dead.

A Mecosta County sheriff's deputy tried to pull over McLafferty's rented vehicle and he fled into the woods. The deputy was unaware of the murder allegation, but did see McLafferty armed with a shotgun.

A manhunt ended with deputies finding McLafferty in a deserted hunting cabin. He had stabbed himself in the chest and authorities could not save him.

E-mail Nate Reens: nreens@grpress.com