KALAMAZOO —

A married father of three who owned a local insurance business has been identified as the

.

Brian James Arra, 45, of Portage, who has owned Arra Insurance Agency in downtown Kalamazoo since 2004, was driving south on Westnedge Avenue at about 10 p.m. when his vehicle was struck on the driver’s side. That vehicle was driven by a 19-year-old Kalamazoo man who ran a red light at Vine Street as he was westbound in a Lincoln Town Car, Kalamazoo Department of Public Safety investigators said.

Moments before the crash, police said the Lincoln’s driver, whose name has not been released, fled from a Public Safety officer who tried to stop him at the intersection of Vine and Jasper Street for having improper license plates. Police said the Lincoln’s driver failed to stop and fled at a “high rate of speed.”

Public Safety Chief Jeff Hadley said during a news conference early Wednesday that the officer did not pursue the vehicle but did broadcast a description of the Lincoln and the direction it was heading. He said no other officers made contact with the Lincoln prior to the crash.

The scene of the fatal crash is about six blocks west of where the Public Safety officer initiated the traffic stop on the Lincoln.

Police have said the Lincoln’s driver, who was taken to Bronson Methodist Hospital for treatment after the crash, will be arrested on charges of fleeing and eluding police ,causing death, and driving without a license, causing death.

Public Safety investigators said they plan to submit their investigation for review Thursday to the Kalamazoo County Prosecutor’s Office.

Arra, according to his company’s website, was a veteran of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard Reserve and served on the board of directors for Southwest Michigan Professionals Network and Hospital Hospitality House of Kalamazoo. He was co-owner of his company along with his wife, Tracy Arra, and, according to his Facebook page, the couple has three children.

Hadley press conference on fatal accident

Contact Rex Hall Jr. at

or 269-388-7784.