DELTON —

A man who was

by a Michigan State Police trooper early Wednesday north of Delton has been identified as Anthony William Thompson, 40.

Thompson was pronounced dead at the scene after he was shot in front of his mobile home in the 300 block of Lakeside Drive at Guernsey Lake Mobile Home Community in Barry County’s Hope Township, police said.

A state police trooper and two Barry County sheriff’s deputies

at about 6 a.m. Wednesday after receiving a report of a domestic assault and a suicidal subject armed with a shotgun, state police Detective 1st Lt. Chuck Christensen said.

At the scene, Thompson, who was armed with a shotgun, was walking in and out of his residence and making threats at neighbors and made threats against police, the lieutenant said.

Christensen said Thompson also ignored “more than several” demands from the officers to drop the shotgun.

“His actions with the shotgun were threatening toward the officers,” Christensen said.

Eventually, Christensen said the MSP trooper fired two shots at Thompson, killing him.

Christensen declined to say Wednesday afternoon how many times Thompson was struck or where he was wounded, pending the results of an autopsy.

Christensen also declined to comment about what prompted the trooper to shoot Thompson, citing the ongoing investigation. However, he did say, “Obviously anytime a trooper shoots is when they believe their life is in danger or the life of another” is in danger.

Police did not identify the trooper Wednesday but did say he was a 16-year veteran of MSP who works out of the agency’s post in Hastings. Christensen said the trooper has been placed on administrative leave, pending the outcome of the investigation, which is departmental policy.

The trooper and no other police officers were injured during the incident, he said.

Christensen said Wednesday that Thompson was a suspect in the domestic assault that was reported to police by a woman who lived at the residence with Thompson. Alcohol appears to have been a factor, the lieutenant said.

Christensen said Wednesday that the shooting investigation will be forwarded to the Barry County Prosecutor’s Office for review when it is complete and state police will also conduct a separate internal investigation to determine if the shooting is within departmental policy.

Contact Rex Hall Jr. at

or 269-388-7784.