Two teenagers were shot outside Detroit's Mumford High School after finishing their first day of classes Tuesday.

Police said the shootings happened about 3:30 p.m. Tuesday just after classes got out for the day. Detroit police spokeswoman Sgt. Eren Stephens said a 16-year-old boy was shot in the buttocks and a 14-year-old girl was grazed in the eyebrow.

The students were taken to a nearby hospital but the injuries don't appear to be life-threatening. Police haven't released their names.

Stephens said the shootings stemmed from an argument at the school between the boy and another student they believe was the shooter. She said another student also may have been involved.

WWJ spoke with Detroit Schools spokeswoman Jennifer Morowski, who said both of the victims were Mumford High school students, and this was not a case of schools' rivalry.

"This is not a case where students had transferred into the school. The episode happened with students who were all Mumford students last year," she said. "This is not an episode when you have the schools that have been merged and you have the typical concerns with schools that have ebeen merged," she said.

Morowski said several other Mumford students were being questioned by police.

No arrests have been made.

RELATED DEVELOPMENT

As Detroit Police were looking for clues and suspects from the Mumford High School shootings, investigators wound up shooting and killing another man.

Officers were combing the area looking for clues and talking to witnesses about the shooting. As part of the probe, they went to an apartment in the 200 block of Merton. That's where they encountered a man with a gun in the hallway.

When ordered to drop the weapon, the man allegedly pointed it at officers who then shot and killed him. A police spokesperson would only say the officers were there as part of the investigation of the school shooting, but would neither confirm or deny if the man was a part of that.



(Copyright 2010 by WWJ Radio. All Rights Reserved. The Associated Press contributed to this report)