SAGINAW — Police have identified a suspected bank robber who died Thursday afternoon when his car crashed into a family’s minivan while he was fleeing a pursuing Michigan State Police cruiser.

Delpree Brown, 43, of Saginaw died in the 1:49 p.m. crash on Weiss at North Bond, according to Lt. Stephen Sipes of the Flint state police post.

Police said Brown is suspected of the armed robbery of Citizens Bank, 3061 Bay Road in Saginaw Township, minutes before the crash.

Police found evidence in the vehicle at the crash scene “that traces him back into that bank,” said Sipes, declining to specify the evidence.

Two women and two girls inside the minivan received “non-life-threatening injuries,” according to police, who said the foursome was transported to Covenant HealthCare’s Cooper campus. Sipes didn’t identify the minivan’s occupants, but said the girls, ages 8 and 6, remained in a hospital as of Friday morning.

A trooper from the state police post at Bridgeport began pursuing a Pontiac car driven by Brown about 1:45 p.m. Thursday, after hearing a description of a suspect vehicle connected with the bank robbery.

The trooper spotted the vehicle at Mackinaw and Shattuck and tried to make a traffic stop, but the car fled at a high rate of speed, according to Sipes.

The car traveled about two miles before striking a curb and entering oncoming traffic, where the suspect vehicle was struck broadside by the minivan, according to police.

Brown was released on parole from a state prison in October.

According to the Michigan Department of Corrections, Brown committed four crimes in Saginaw County: possession of less than 25 grams of a controlled substance in 2004, unlawful use of a motor vehicle in both 1995 and 1991, and prison escape in 1991.

Following the crash, the fleeing Pontiac came to rest east of North Oakley, on the property of the Hoyt Nursing & Rehab Centre, 1202 Weiss. The damaged minivan came to a stop partially on the same property, only yards from the Pontiac.