ROBIN CASSELLA

While some Quaddick Lake residents contend a new tax district could help with a long-standing weed problem, others view it as another unnecessary tax.

The Quaddick Lake Association is proposing a separate tax district for Quaddick Lake residents in order to pay for chemical treatment of an ongoing invasive weed problem at the Thompson lake. A $200,000 state grant received in 2007 that has paid for the treatments is close to running out, according to Town Planner Kevin Kennedy. Slightly more than $60,000 remains.

In order to propose the tax district, the association must present a petition signed by at least 15 Quaddick Lake residents to the Board of Selectmen to request a town meeting. Only residents who would be affected by the tax district would be allowed to vote at the town meeting.

As of the selectmen’s July 5 meeting, no petition had been received. Quaddick Lake Association President Gary Bessette said the group is discussing the matter with an attorney.

Not all Quaddick Lake residents support the proposed tax district.

Judy White referred to it as a “scheme” and said lake residents already pay enough in taxes because of their location.

“Some already justify our higher property taxes because we have a view,” she said. “Now a new taxing scheme would burden us even more.”

White said if selectmen receive a petition from the Quaddick Lake Association asking for the meeting, she is prepared to submit her own petition against the additional tax.

Sally White, a former selectman who does not live on the lake, questioned whether all options were researched before costly chemicals were used to treat the weeds.

“Have all methods been exhausted?” Sally White said, suggesting sewer repairs or using insects on the weeds might be cheaper.

According to Bessette, the association has looked into every option for the least amount of money.

Quaddick Lake resident Jim Rawson, who is against the tax district, noted that several landowners do not live there year-round and might not be notified of the town meeting.

First Selectman Larry Groh Jr. admitted it was “a unique situation.”

“I would need to get advice from the town attorney once I get a petition,” he said. “I will try to get as much information out to as many people as I can.”

Bessette also invited concerned residents to attend the association’s annual meeting at 11 a.m. July 17 at Town Hall.