MONTCALM COUNTY — When Matthew Speese returned from the Gulf War in the early 1990s, family members said he was a different person.

He had episodes of depression and unpredictable behavior that made his then-wife scared.

“He was my husband when he went over there, but when he came back, he was a completely different person,” said Tania Felix, who was married to Speese for nine years and had two children with him.

Felix believes his post-traumatic stress disorder may have played a role in the Wednesday police shooting and death of Speese, 47, near Howard City.

State police said Speese was armed with a long gun when he confronted officers who went to his Gates Road home, northwest of Howard City, about 5:30 p.m. to check on his well-being. Someone had called 911, worried about Speese.

Police said Speese made comments about shooting officers who responded to the scene. Officers were at the home for nearly two hours, with negotiators attempting to “de-escalate” the situation, authorities said.

At 7:21 p.m., state police said Speese came out of his home and walked down the driveway, holding his gun. Officers from the Howard City Police Department and the Montcalm County Sheriff’s Department began giving verbal commands to Speese, which he ignored.

“He pointed his weapon at officers, at which time the officers were threatened for their lives, as well as other officers at the scene,” said State Police Lt. Andrea Nerbonne in a statement.

“They fired multiple shots at Speese, striking him several times.”

Speese was taken to Spectrum Health Butterworth Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

None of the officers at the scene were injured. The two officers who fired the shots — police have not released their names or departments — are on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure in officer-involved shootings.

The state police is handling the investigation.

Speese spent eight years in the Marines and fought in the Gulf War in 1991, police and family members said. He had been on disability in recent years, but formerly worked as a painter at his brother’s business.

Police said Speese had been working with a veteran’s hospital for treatment of depression.

Felix said Speese was sporadically depressed and suicidal when he returned from the war. In a statement, other family members acknowledged he struggled with post-traumatic stress disorder.

Felix said Speese had taken medication at some point, but did not know whether he still used it. She talked to him about two weeks ago and said he seemed to be doing better in his life.

While his children live on the other side of the state, Speese remained close with his son, Sean, 21, and daughter, Stephanie, 25. Sean Speese planned to go see his father this weekend to help him fix things on the property, Felix said.

Stephanie Speese had “always been a daddy’s girl,” she said, and was emotionally devastated by the news of her father’s death, Felix said.

Felix questioned whether police needed to shoot Speese.

“I feel they did not handle this right. Why did they have to go to this extreme?” she asked.

Felix's sister, Christina Wieland, also knew Speese well and said he was a sharpshooter in the Marines. She believes if he wanted to shoot at police, he could have done so.

"He was not going to take out any cop," she said. "I think he was probably depressed, but he was a wonderful father."

“Our country needs to take better care of our veterans,” she said.

Speese collected a variety of guns and enjoyed outdoor activities, including fishing, deer hunting and camping, his ex-wife said. He had a stroke two to three years ago that she thinks was related to physical illness he suffered from the war.

Felix said Speese had been in past altercations with police, including an incident at Camp Lejeune, N.C. not long after he returned from the war.

Montcalm County Sheriff’s officials had no record of any recent police responses to his home.

E-mail John Tunison: jtunison@grpress.com