Staff Writer

The Daily Telegram

The July 20 fatal shooting of a Manitou Beach man during a knife assault on a Lenawee County sheriff’s deputy has been ruled legally justified by Lenawee County Prosecutor Jonathan Poer.

An opinion on the shooting investigation was sent Thursday afternoon to a Michigan State Police detective and to Sheriff Jack Welsh. It stated Deputy Jeff Johnson acted lawfully during the incident that ended with the death of 30-year-old Brian Keith Arnett outside his apartment on Mills Road.

“He’s ruled the death of Brian Arnett is legally justified and no action will be taken by the prosecutor’s office,” Under­sheriff James Anderson said Friday.

“It’s a tragic incident and we certainly extend our condolences to the family of Mr. Arnett,” said Anderson. “The incident has also been extremely traumatic for Deputy Johnson,” he said, and for others at the scene.

Johnson and another deputy were sent that afternoon to aid two Lenawee County Circuit Court probation officers attempting to make contact with Arnett at his apartment.

Anderson said Poer’s written opinion was based on reports from Michigan State Police, the sheriff’s department and probation officers of their investigation of what happened after the deputies arrived. Poer stated it was clear from witness statements in the reports that Arnett was refusing to comply with the officers.

Arnett was standing inside the door of the apartment when witnesses said he shouted, “Let’s do it,” or “Bring it on,” Anderson said. Witnesses reported he then reached into the front pocket or waist band of his shorts, pulled out a steak knife and burst through the door at the officers a few feet away, Poer stated in his opinion.

State police said a day after the shooting that Arnett was armed with a paring knife.

Michigan State Police reported two shots were fired at Arnett, striking him in the upper portion of his body. Johnson and Addison Fire Department paramedics treated Arnett before he was transferred to ProMedica Bixby Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to Michigan State Police.

After the shooting, Johnson was placed on administrative leave, following sheriff’s department policy. Anderson said he returned to duty about 10 days later, following an internal review of the incident and medical clearance for Johnson.

Anderson said it is still not clear what caused Arnett’s reaction to officers on that day.

Answers to that question are still being sought in an ongoing Michigan State Police investigation, said Jackson post commander 1st Lt. Jim Shaw. Reports submitted to the prosecutor by Detective Sgt. Lisa Gee-Cramm of the Jackson post dealt with the use of deadly force, said Shaw. Autopsy and toxicology reports have not yet been submitted, he said. The investigation will also seek to fill in details of what was happening with Arnett before probation officers and police arrived at his home on July 20, he said.

“That investigation will continue,” Shaw said.

Arnett was placed on three years’ probation on March 31 after he pleaded guilty to a felony resisting police charge. Adrian police reported Arnett ran from them on Dec. 12 after leaving Pizza Hut without paying for a meal. He was reported to be homeless at the time and Dec. 12 was his birthday.