The man who killed himself after a three-hour standoff with police Sunday afternoon had recently returned from drug rehab, his sister said.



Caleb Cannons, 26, shot himself around 12:45 p.m. inside 1103 Webster St. He had been staying at the house, owned by his father, since coming home from rehab, neighbors and family said.



"I will always love him regardless," said his sister, Amber Parker. "He was a good person, and he will be missed."



Jackson Police officers and Jackson County Sheriff's deputies surrounded the house and closed off the block after receiving a call that a man barricaded himself inside with a gun, said Sgt. Jeff Mazur. Police negotiated with him for three hours before hearing a single gunshot. Officers went inside the house and found Cannons in an upstairs bedroom.



Parker went to the house later on Sunday and went inside briefly. She talked with a neighbor, telling how hard her father was taking his son's death. She said her brother's addiction to drugs consumed him. In and out of rehab several times, he was never able to beat it.



"He really did wear his heart on his sleeve," Parker said. "It just didn't work out."



Neighbors said scenes from the standoff haunt them. Some knew Cannons and had watched him struggle over the years. Bill and Debbie Courter live across the street and remember Cannons coming over offering to do yard work for money. On Sunday, a police officer was on their side porch with a rifle trained at the house, Bill Courter said.



Bill Courter heard Cannons yelling from a window of the house, earlier on Sunday. Cannons told the officer he could not handle his life's problems and had already relapsed after leaving rehab, Bill Courter said. The officer told Cannons they could work out his problems and get him into a better rehab program. At one point, an officer bought Cannons a pack of cigarettes and tossed them up to him through an open window, Bill Courter said.



No one else was home during the standoff. Cannons father will be staying with family in the area, neighbors said.

