DETROIT (WXYZ) - Police misconduct lawsuits have cost the City of Detroit tens of millions of dollars since 2008.

As 7 Action News first reported Thursday, more than 300 people have been awarded judgments or settlements after alleging police misconduct, with payouts varying in size from $500 to more than $3 million.

At the corner of Woodward and Peterboro in 2011, an arrest gone wrong cost taxpayers a small fortune. According to a civil suit, officers used excessive force when they tried to arrest Stanley Sparks outside his home, allegedly choking him to death. The officer involved was never charged criminally, but taxpayers paid out $600,000 to settle the civil suit filed against the city.

In 2007, police shot and killed an unarmed man near this intersection on the city’s west side. While investigating an armed robbery, they came upon 30-year-old Jevon Royall. During a pat-down, police shot and killed Royall, saying he tried to grab for an officer’s gun. But witnesses disputed that version of events, and forensic evidence suggested Royall wasn’t shot at close range. His family sued the city, receiving a $500,000 settlement.

Ron Scott is the founder of the Coalition Against Police Brutality, he says officer misconduct doesn’t just hurt the city’s bottom line. It makes it harder for police to keep the city safe.

"If I’m a citizen and I’m asking for the police to come out when I need assistance and they say we don’t have enough money, we don’t have enough officers at this point," Scott said, "You’re draining the pot by spending this money."

The city spent $300,000 to settle a lawsuit filed by William Horton in 2011. Detroit police accused him of two separate cases of kidnapping, armed robbery and rape. It led to charges by the Wayne County Prosecutor’s office, and Horton’s arrest. He was locked up for months until DNA evidence proved cops arrested the wrong man. Horton sued and the city settled for $300,000.

In fact, wrongful arrests have led to some of the biggest payments to come from the city, when men like Walter Swift took legal action. He sat behind bars for 26 years for a crime he didn’t commit. Swift and three other wrongly-convicted men have received settlements since 2008, totaling more than $9 million.

Contact 7 Investigator Ross Jones at rjones@wxyz.com or at (248) 827-9466.