WYANDOTTE – Billy Miller, associate pastor for Little Ida Baptist Church in Ecorse, has 45 years of friendship to reflect on when he speaks about Johnny L. Bentley , 74, of Wyandotte.

Bentley was killed Thursday when his 2004 Saturn crashed into a semitruck on southbound I-75 after a police pursuit.

Brownstown Township police were pursuing the vehicle, which was seen being driven erratically on Fort Street, and followed it onto southbound I-75 in Monroe County.

The crash occurred at about 9:30 a.m., and Bentley was pronounced dead at the scene.

Miller received a telephone call from a member of Bentley’s church and was told Bentley had died in a car accident.

According to Miller, those who knew Bentley were well aware that he had medical problems.

“He had sugar diabetes really bad,” Miller said. “He also had Alzheimer’s disease. When he didn’t take his medicine, he would get confused or forget where he was going.”

Miller said no one has told him that either of the medical conditions contributed to the chase and the crash, but Miller is confident they did.

“I know him well enough to know,” he said.

When asked what he liked about Bentley, Miller responded quickly saying, “Everything.”

Miller said Bentley helped people in his community, in South Rockwood and in Ecorse, as well.

He said Bentley was a member of Rose of Sharon Baptist Church in South Rockwood and also attended Little Ida Baptist Church on occasion.

Little Ida is within the same organization of A Rose of Sharon.

Miller said Bentley was married and has several children and grandchildren.

Trenton police first spotted Bentley’s vehicle swerving between lanes and contacted township police about a possible intoxicated driver.

Brownstown officers attempted to pull Bentley over, but were unsuccessful.

According to township police reports, Bentley increased his speed to 100 mph prior to hitting the semitruck north of Swan Creek Road in Berlin Township.

The semitruck driver was not injured in the crash.

Bentley was alone in the vehicle.

Anyone with information on the crash is asked to contact the Monroe County Sheriff’s Office at 1-734-243-7070 or 1-734-240-7493.