NILES, MI --

Funeral services are pending at Brown Funeral Home in Niles for Jazmyne Rodriguez, 15, the Niles High School

morning when the truck she was driving, with police in pursuit, struck a tree and over-turned, pinning her beneath it, police said.

Jim Millin, chief of the Niles Police Department, said a homeowner in the 1800 block of Sycamore Street called the Berrien County Sheriff's Office at 8:15 a.m. Sunday to report that he had heard his 1989 Chevrolet pick-up truck start, and looked out the window to see it driving down the street.

Just a few minutes later, Niles police officers spotted the stolen truck, and attempted to pull it over.

The driver, who was unknown to officers, ignored the flashing lights and instead sped through two stop signs, and turned east onto the street that becomes Yankee Street, accelerating, Millin said.

The speed limit there is 50 mph; the officer in pursuit 65-70 yards behind reported reached speeds of 85 mph, Millin said.

Officers from other police agencies joined in, and a Michigan State Police trooper about half a mile farther down the road was preparing to set out "stop sticks," designed to halt vehicles by puncturing their tires. But before they could be placed, the driver veered to the left, struck a tree, and the truck caught fire and came to rest on its side, cracking a uitility pole and pinning the teen driver underneath it.

Officers were able to quickly extinguish the fire.

Rodriguez was declared dead at the scene, Millin said.

It wasn't until the truck crashed that police discovered the driver was a young girl, Millin said.

He said that when a unknown driver flees a routine traffic stop, it is usual that police pursue the vehicle because "you tend to believe something's going on" that would prompt the driver to attempt to elude police. When such pursuits end well, he said, "everyone says 'good job.' When they end poorly, everyone second-guesses" the officers involved.

Millin said the truck remained in its lane before veering off the road, and that the officer behind it saw no brake lights.

The crash investigation has been turned over to Michigan State Police, who have called in an accident reconstructionist.