Katie Park

@kathspark

HOWELL - A 25-year-old man was killed Sunday morning when police said he pushed triple digits on the speedometer to evade capture but crashed into a pole, tree and fence.

Brian Fani, of Marlboro, ran off the road around the Howell Park Golf Course after he sped 3.3 miles through the township in less than three minutes, with Sgt. Rich Conte straggling behind and struggling to close the distance, Detective Sgt. Christian Antunez said in a statement.

Conte first spotted Fani driving 56 mph in an area with a posted 25 mph speed limit around 1 a.m. Sunday, Antunez said. Conte turned his patrol car around to stop Fani's car, a 2009 Subaru Legacy, but Antunez said Fani accelerated onto Asbury Avenue, then began passing other cars in no-passing zones and around curves on the road.

ALSO: Car stop leads to Howell, FBI fraud investigation

"Unable to close the gap on the vehicle, Sergeant Conte activated his emergency lights and sirens to make the driver aware of the police presence and get him to stop," Antunez said.

Antunez said Fani ignored the police car behind him and kept driving "recklessly" onto Southard Avenue, speeding up to 100 mph and running two red lights.

During the chase, Conte could not make out the characters on the license plate or get closer to the Subaru, Antunez said.

As the Subaru approached Howell Park Golf Course, Antunez said the car rolled off the road, sideswiped a utility pole and hit a wooden fence and tree.

Conte was not immediately behind the Subaru during the crash, but Antunez said he pulled up to the scene of the crash "shortly thereafter" and performed CPR on Fani.

"It was apparent he (Fani) was deceased," Antunez said.

An autopsy showed Fani died of blunt force trauma. Antunez said toxicology report results will take several weeks.

The chase and crash remains under investigation, Antunez said, and the Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office is investigating the crash for an "impartial review and determination of the facts."

Following the prosecutor's office investigation, Antunez said Howell's police chief and its internal affairs unit will investigate whether all officers followed department policies.

Conte will remain on full duty without any restrictions.

ALSO: Sidetracked motorist hit cop promoting safe driving campaign

“Regardless of the circumstances, a young man lost his life," Andrew Kudrick, Howell police chief, said in the statement. "We remind everyone the consequences of actions. Legal problems can be resolved. A life cannot be replaced."

People with more information about the chase and crash are asked to contact the prosecutor's office at 732-618-7369, or Howell police at 732-938-4575, ext. 2237.

Katie Park: 908-801-4853; kpark@gannettnj.com