Green Bay Police say dash cam video shows the danger that people in a west side neighborhood faced last month after a man, reportedly drunk, stole a car and took off.

An officer chased him, and the 26-year old man, later identified as Shyan Wheelock, eventually crashed and died.

Appleton Police investigated the crash since there was an officer-involved death. Their investigation is now complete, and the district attorney is now reviewing the case.

Friday, police released the dash cam video of the pursuit and walked us through it, showing the moments leading up to the pursuit and crash.

The dash cam starts rolling as a Green Bay officer searches for an unidentified man, reported to be stumbling around and trying to break into cars.

The officer spots him, flips on his sirens and follows.

The man appears to pull over, but then speeds away, running a red light.

"He's taking off! He's driving very erratically, swerving back and forth," the officer says into his radio.

The man is seen weaving, first in his lane and then into the path of oncoming traffic.

"He's swerving back and forth very wildly, from curb to curb," the officer radios into dispatch again, a few seconds later.

The video shows the suspect speed around another vehicle and through another red light.

The officer slows at that red light to check for oncoming traffic, then pursues again.

Before the officer gets close, less than one minute after the chase began, Wheelock crashes into a tree. The impact of the crash split the stolen car in two.

"We have to look at what they're doing, and we have to make the decision, do we initiate a pursuit or do we not? Based on what that officer saw at the time, he clearly had no choice but to attempt to stop him," says Officer Jon Nejedlo.

Nejedlo helps train officers when and how to pursue a suspect and says the department's policy allows officers to pursue for violent felonies, if a person has a warrant for a violent felony or if the person's driving behavior demonstrates a great risk to the public.

Based on time and location, Nejedlo says there was that risk in this case.

"That type of driving, at that time of day, on a Sunday morning, on Easter Sunday, with people coming and going from church and the weather being as nice as it was and people being out, he posed an extreme danger to the public," says Nejedlo.

Approaching the red lights shows part of a threat to officers, who have to be alert for other drivers or pedestrians, plus think about their own safety.

Nationwide, three officers have already been killed this year in pursuits.

"It's a continuous cycle of thought and decision making under a large amount of pressure," adds Nejedlo.