NEWARK -- Authorities identified a Newark carjacker killed in a crash Saturday night as an 18-year-old city man.

The man, Quadir K. Jackson, was pronounced dead at University Hospital at 7:15 p.m Saturday, about 15 minutes after the crash, Acting Essex County Prosecutor Carolyn Murray said Sunday afternoon.

Murray also identified two other men arrested in the carjacking: Mutah Brown, 20; and Kevin Anderson, 21, both of Newark.

Both were in custody Sunday, charged with receiving stolen property. Murray said Brown was also charged with eluding, and Anderson was charged with resisting arrest.

Murray said Jackson was killed after being thrown from a Mercedes Benz that the three had carjacked, when the car struck a utility pole on Holland Street while being chased by Newark Police.

The Newark police union president, James Stewart Jr., said a gun was found at the scene, and an officer was injured chasing down one of the men after the crash.

A Newark police spokesman said Brown had been arrested twice before, once in 2016, and more recently on Jan. 25. In the more recent incident, in the city's South Ward, police seized a loaded AK-47 and arrested Brown and three other men after a police lieutenant heard gunfire and spotted the group allegedly fleeing the scene.

The spokesman, Capt. Derek Glenn, said Brown had been released following his January arrest under a state bail reform law signed by Gov. Chris Cristie that went into effect this year, and Glenn seized on the Saturday night's fatal incident to criticize the new state law.

"Brown shouldn't have been out of jail, and he's now participating in an incident where you now have two additional victims: a grieving family; and the victim of a carjacking," Glenn said.

The bail reform law conditions a defendant's release on the seriousness of the charge and the risk to public safety and of flight, not whether the accused has the money to post bail. But Newark Public Safety Director Anthony Ambrose challenged reform advocates including Chief Justice Stuart Rabner of the New Jersey Supreme Court to balance judicial fairness and public safety.

"Chief Justice Rabner need to make revamping of bail reform a priority with the safety of our citizens paramount in the equation," Ambrose said in a statement. "Results of bail reform are more victims, more recidivism and more crime."

Steve Strunsky may be reached at sstrunsky@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @SteveStrunsky. Find NJ.com on Facebook.