Two officers used proper force when they fatally shot a South Side man this weekend after he allegedly fired at them, grazing an officer in the head, officials said Sunday.

But several people who said they saw the incident at the Raymond M. Hilliard housing complex Saturday night disagree. They say Donnell Strickland was shot as he was kneeling and after he had put up his hands to surrender.

Advertisement

The shooting has sparked anger among the complex's residents, but police spokesman Pat Camden said Sunday that Strickland, 24, refused to give up his weapon and opened fire at three officers.

"We have five witnesses who saw what he did. We recovered his .38-caliber handgun with six expended rounds," Camden said. "They fired their weapons while fearing for their lives. The facts speak for themselves."

Advertisement

Police were conducting drug surveillance at about 10:15 p.m. when they saw a crowd of people near several parked cars in a lot on the 2000 block of South State Street, authorities said. When the officers approached, Strickland ran from the group to a nearby playground, Camden said.

Officer Thomas Forst, an 11-year veteran, tried to grab him, but Strickland broke free and fired twice, grazing the officer on the left side of the head, Camden said.

When Forst's partner ordered Strickland to drop his weapon, he fired two more shots, according to Camden, who said the officer returned fire.

Staggering several feet, Strickland fired twice at a third officer, who shot Strickland, knocking him down, Camden said.

In the exchange of shots with police, Strickland was hit twice in the buttocks.

"From the facts as I know them, he wasn't kneeling, he wasn't raising his hands," Camden said. "He was firing at police officers, and they had to fire back."

Forst was treated and released Sunday from Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

A group of police officials met with witnesses and representatives of the Cook County state's attorney's office Sunday morning and determined that the two officers, who were not identified, did not use excessive force.

Advertisement

The officers have served with the Police Department for six and four years respectively, officials said.

"While under fire from an armed offender, the officers' use of deadly force was well within the guidelines of department directives," Camden said.

Camden said an investigation by the Office of Professional Standards is ongoing. The state's attorney's office is also reviewing the incident, said spokeswoman Marcy O'Boyle.

Several residents at Hilliard Homes said Sunday they saw the shooting and insisted that Strickland was not acting aggressively. They said he was killed without justification.

"I saw him and he had his hands up. He was kneeling. But they shot him anyway," said Whitney Hudson, 17, a family friend who said she watched from her fifth-floor apartment.

Strickland's sister-in-law, Timberly Minnis, 19, said Strickland had spent the evening in her apartment, attending a birthday party for Minnis' 4-year-old daughter. Strickland was playing with his own 2-month-old girl when he left to get something from his car, she said. "He didn't carry any gun. All he had was a cell phone," said Minnis, who said she saw the incident from a 10th-story window. "He didn't deal any drugs. He didn't mess with anybody. He was just kneeling with his arms up, nothing else."

Advertisement

Relatives said Strickland was a cashier in a fast food restaurant and was planning to get married. He also had a 4-year-old son, they said.

Minnis and her friend Katrina Mitchell said police kicked Strickland after he was shot.

Camden denied that officers kicked Strickland, who had no drugs in his possession.