LAS CRUCES - The 3rd Judicial District Attorney's Office has determined last month's fatal shooting of an armed suspect by a Las Cruces police officer was justified under New Mexico law.

The district attorney's decision was announced Tuesday by the Las Cruces Police Department, which also released the name of the officer who fatally 52-year-old Ernesto Sedillo on July 17.

“After an extensive review of this case," District Attorney Mark D’Antonio wrote Monday in a letter to LCPD, "we have concluded that the shooting by Officer Kenneth Davis was justified under New Mexico law."

Police said video of the incident captured by Davis' lapel camera played a "key" role in "exonerating" the officer.

The incident began to unfold around 11 :30 a.m. July 17 when police had been dispatched to the report of suspicious person, possibly armed with a knife, in the 800 block of Delta Drive.

More:Las Cruces police: Suspect pointed gun at officer before fatal shooting

The investigation revealed that Sedillo had entered the backyard of a home in the 800 block of Delta Drive, according to police.

The resident of the home confronted Sedillo, who was reportedly armed with a knife. The resident subsequently called 911 to report the incident and prompting the initial response from LCPD.

Davis was the first officer to arrive on the scene and located Sedillo, who matched the description of the suspect, near a black Honda Accord that was parked along the 1800 block of Arizona Avenue, police said.

By the time Davis had approached the vehicle, police said, Sedillo was in the backseat.

More:Family reels in death of man killed in police encounter

As the officer walked up to the rear of the vehicle, Sedillo partially emerged from the backseat and pointed a handgun at the officer, who responded by firing multiple rounds at the suspect.

The investigation revealed that Davis fired eight rounds, four of which struck Sedillo.

After Davis fired his weapon, police said, he retreated to his patrol unit and called for backup, apparently not knowing if the suspect had been struck or was still a threat.

Police revealed Tuesday that Sedillo's 9-mm handgun had a loaded magazine but no round in the chamber. It’s not known if Sedillo pulled the trigger or attempted to fire at the officer.

The handgun was later recovered from Sedillo’s vehicle. The knife also was located in a sheath that Sedillo was wearing.

Following the shooting, LCPD dispatched its SWAT team to the scene, believing Sedillo still posed a threat and was possibly barricaded in the Honda.

After about an hour, the SWAT team located Sedillo deceased in the back seat of the Honda. No shots were fired by any members of the SWAT team.

Sedillo, who had a history of arrests since 2005, was pronounced dead at 12:57 p.m.

More:Man dead after SWAT standoff with police in Las Cruces

After the shooting, Davis was placed on administrative leave which is standard protocol for the Las Cruces Police Department. He returned to duty on July 24.

Davis is a four-year veteran of LCPD and also previously served as a deputy with the Doña Ana County Sheriff’s Office, police said.

Carlos Andres López can be reached 575-541-5453, carlopez@lcsun-news.com or @carlopez_los on Twitter,