NORFOLK

A Norfolk police officer was justified in shooting a naval nuclear technician after she pulled a gun and shot her husband as the officer was questioning them, the city’s top prosecutor said Friday.

Early in the evening on July 17, Officer David Dreyer was questioning 25-year-old India Nelson about a car crash she’d been in with her husband, Andrew Fraser, Commonwealth’s Attorney Greg Underwood wrote in a letter to Norfolk Police Chief Larry Boone made public Friday.

During the interview, Nelson suddenly pulled a semi-automatic handgun she’d hidden in her clothes and shot her husband, Underwood said.

Dreyer pulled his gun and shot Nelson, he added.

Dreyer, who joined the department in 2013, wasn’t just justified, but “had a sworn duty to safeguard a defenseless Fraser … and nearby citizens,” Underwood said.

Because Dreyer was questioning Nelson as she pulled her gun and opened fire, his body camera captured the shooting.

Norfolk police declined to release the body cam footage. State law allows police chiefs to keep records of a criminal investigation secret, even after it’s closed. Before going back to regular duty, Dreyer must answer NPD brass to see if he followed the department’s policies and procedures when he shot Nelson.

Investigators with the state police discovered the marriage of Nelson and Fraser, both of whom were in the Navy, was falling apart and they’d talked about getting a divorce, Underwood said.

When state police searched their apartment in the hours after the shooting, they found divorce papers and post-nuptial agreements, Special Agent Brian Kennedy said in an affidavit to search the home.

Around 5 p.m. on July 17, Nelson left work for dinner and was due to return at 6:30, Underwood wrote in his letter. She went home and ran into her husband. The two got into an argument about Fraser cheating on her.

During the argument, Fraser told investigators, Nelson threw and broke his cellphone, Underwood said. Fraser, who’s now 28, responded by breaking her laptop.

At 6:06 p.m., Nelson called 911 to report a domestic disturbance at their apartment in the 8600 block of Glen Myrtle Ave., Underwood said. She told dispatchers her husband was destroying the apartment.

Fraser got into his black BMW sedan to leave the home, but Nelson blocked the exit, and he drove on the sidewalk in order to get out.

As Fraser was driving down Admiral Taussig Boulevard, he realized Nelson had sidled up next to him in a Chevy Cavalier and was yelling at him. She made a U-turn at the next intersection and drove back the wrong way to where Fraser was.

Then she crashed into the front of his car.

Both of them got out, which is when Fraser noticed a gun in his wife’s hand. He bolted toward a nearby dentist’s office.

Nelson got in Fraser’s BMW and drove off.

At 6:56, Fraser used a Good Samaritan’s cellphone to call his wife and tell her she needed to return because police had been called.

At 6:59, Dreyer and another officer, Patrick Wilkerson, arrived. Fraser told Wilkerson his wife was mad because he’d cheated on her.

Before Fraser could tell the officer about the gun, Nelson rolled up in the BMW. Using footage from Wilkerson’s body cam, investigators determined 24 seconds passed between Wilkerson meeting with Fraser and Nelson’s arrival.

Still images from Norfolk Police Officer David Dreyer’s body camera show India Nelson putting her keys and cell phone on her husband’s BMW sedan as ordered before pulling a gun from her back waistband area and charging at her husband on July 17, 2017. After Nelson shot her husband, Dreyer shot and killed her.

Dreyer asked her to put her keys and cellphone on the BMW before asking her what led up to the crash.

“Typical man stuff,” she said, wearing a Navy sweatpants and sneakers.

Then she reached behind to pull a handgun and sprinted toward her husband. Twenty-three seconds passed between putting her keys on the car and pulling the gun.

She fired four times, hitting Fraser once in the right buttocks. He fell to the ground just a few feet away from his wife, who was still pointing a gun at him.

Dreyer drew his weapon and fired six shots, hitting Nelson three times. Bullets hit her in the back of the head, the back and in the torso, going through her chest.

She died at the scene.

Three witnesses told investigators Dreyer did not fire until Nelson started shooting.

Nelson’s death was one of two deadly police shootings in Norfolk last year. Underwood has ruled both of them justified.

Jonathan Edwards, 757-446-2536, jonathan.edwards@pilotonline.com Follow @VPjedwards on Twitter.