SEAL BEACH >> A Los Alamitos police captain and Westminster’s city clerk were found dead early Monday morning when the SWAT team entered an apartment with the help of a robot, hours after getting a distress call and gunshots rang out, authorities said.

The bodies of Rick Moore, 49, of Seal Beach and Amanda Jensen, 37, of Garden Grove were discovered at about 2 a.m. in the 100 block of 7th Street, police said. According to the Orange County Coroner’s office, they died at 7:20 p.m. Sunday.

At about that time, Jensen called 911, asking for help but then the line went dead, Seal Beach police Sgt. Michael Henderson said.

When officers arrived, multiple witnesses told them they had heard several gunshots from the apartment.

Witnesses said Moore’s girlfriend was visiting.

Police and SWAT personnel surrounded the area for hours but never heard any other sounds from inside the apartment. It was considered a barricade situation, and neighbors were told to stay inside their homes with the doors locked.

Dozens of police units assisted Seal Beach police, including Orange County sheriff’s deputies and officers from Huntington Beach, Long Beach, Westminster, Cerritos and Fountain Valley.

Greg Meier, who lives in the 21-unit apartment complex and works as a maintenance man, said the man, later identified as Moore, had lived there for about four months.

“He kind of stayed to himself,” Meier said Monday.

Meier said the man’s girlfriend visited him and there had been some type of conflicts between them in the past: “It’s been a volatile relationship.”

The two bodies were taken away by the coroner Monday morning as neighbors looked on from the nearby streets while walking their dogs or taking jogs.

As a tow truck took a dark-gray Dodge Charger Monday morning, police sirens went off several times in the car. Another car was also seized from the site as part of the investigation.

Craig and Sandra Woods, who live two doors away from the three-story, cream-colored apartment complex, took in several of the evacuating residents late Sunday night.

“People were coming and going, and one couple spent the night,” Craig Woods, 67, said Monday.

After 1 a.m., some residents thought they heard more gunshots.

But Woods, watching from his rooftop, said they were some type of non-lethal flashbang grenades, which make a loud bang and are used to disorient people. Woods said he saw a police robot first break out a window in the apartment before throwing in two of the grenade-type devices through the window.

“The robot looked inside the apartment,” Woods said. “It appeared to have some kind of camera to look around. Then they sent a police dog in.”

A dozen SWAT officers, weapons drawn, then went into the apartment, he said.

Meanwhile, Ed and Annie Nelson, whose home is directly next to the apartment complex, invited SWAT officers to use their rooftop patio, which had a direct view of the apartment.

In 2011, a gunman shot nine people, killing eight at the nearby Salon Meritage.

“When something like this happens, it has nothing to do with the neighborhood,” Annie Nelson said. “And when something bad happens, it brings everybody together. We’ll all help each other heal, too.”