TRENTON - A man accused of killing a 22-year-old woman in a car crash as he fled from police while high has been indicted on aggravated manslaughter and other charges.

Chandler Heaviside, 23, of Jackson, faces a 15-count indictment in the death of Deja Farrior-Quinones. Heaviside he rammed into her car during an intoxicated bid to flee from police in September, authorities said.

Deja Farrior

The indictment includes charges of aggravated manslaughter, eluding, death by auto, leaving the scene, being an unlicensed driver, assault by auto, aggravated assault on a police officer, resisting arrest and drug offenses.

Farrior-Quinones, of Trenton, was driving to Hamilton to visit her nieces when she was killed in the wreck, according to her family members.

Heaviside was speeding on Route 195 - first east and then west - while fleeing State Police who believed he was involved in a drug transaction and tried to pull over his car, according to Mercer County prosecutors.

The chase lasted from Trenton's West Ward down a stretch of the highway before Heaviside got off at Exit 2 - which leads to South Broad Street in Hamilton, according to prosecutors. Police have said that's where they ended their pursuit.

Heaviside continued driving, only stopping when he crashed into Farrior-Quinones' car on South Broad Street, prosecutors said.

The Jackson man continued fleeing on foot until police captured and arrested him a short distance away from the crash. The other two men in his car, Lawrence Sears, 28, and Harry Remington III, 25, were also arrested on drug possession charges.

Heaviside had heroin on him when he was arrested and prosecutors believe that he was high during the chase, according to authorities.

Farrior-Quinones' car was pinned against a pole in the crash and she was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital a short time later.

Robin Lord, an attorney representing Farrior-Quinones' family has questioned why troopers pursued Heaviside for such a distance over an alleged drug offense. The family has indicted they have plans to sue police, the county and Trenton and Hamilton.

Lord filed an internal complaint with State Police shortly after the incident.

Anna Merriman may be reached at amerriman@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @anna_merriman