ORANGE COUNTY, Fla. – Newly released Orange County deputy body camera video shows the chase that led to a crash killing a UCF student last year.

The 22-year-old young woman was killed the night of June 11, 2016 just hours before the Pulse nightclub attack.

Nearly a year later, the video showing the chase was released for the first time.

News 6 also obtained a personnel counseling form that reveals a mistake the deputy made moments before the deadly crash. The video and form will likely be used as evidence in the case against the driver who deputies said caused the crash.

[Watch the body camera video below]

The video shows Orange County Deputy Kyle Gabrus as he tried to catch up with a black BMW, which eventually drives between two cars down the middle of the road.

Moments later, the BMW crashed into Kailyn Jones's car, killing her.

"The process of losing a child is the single worst thing anyone can ever go through," Leah Betancourt, Jones's mother told New 6.

The crash happened hours before the shootings at Pulse nightclub. Jones' parents went to Orlando Regional Medical Center and where it was complete chaos.

At first they couldn't even get into ORMC because it was on lockdown after Orlando police thought there was a second shooter at the hospital, which turned out to be false.

"When we got to the hospital things were completely chaotic," Betancourt said. She found herself shoulder to shoulder with family members of the Pulse victims.

"We were very focused at that point on our own grief," she said. "But other families had started coming in and were quite distraught. We could feel their pain and they could feel ours."

Like the 49 other victims at Pulse that night, Jones did not survive. In a sad connection, Jones had a pulse tattoo, which many people now have as a reminder of the shooting, but Jones' was because she planned to enter the medical field after graduating college.

"Your heart hurts more than it has ever hurt or more than it could ever possibly hurt again." Betancourt said. "To a large extent, I feel that her death could have been avoided."

Authorities said the man who tried to elude the deputy was 26-year-old Andre Lee Davis-Johnson.

The deputy was trying to stop him because he committed "a hazardous traffic violation" by "pulling out in front of other vehicles," according to the arrest report.

The deputy was later given a written reprimand for "activating his emergency lights" "prior to calling in the traffic stop" to dispatch, according to the report

Protocol requires call first, lights second.

Maurice Jones, Kailyn's father explained to News 6 why that is important.

"If he followed those procedures that were established by his department, that could have been 10 seconds, 30 seconds another minute," Jones said. “Which could have totally altered the path of the events that happened that night."

Kailyn's parents said they believe Davis-Johnson is ultimately to blame, not the deputy.

Davis-Johnson is facing a number of charges including leaving the scene of a deadly crash, aggravated fleeing and drug possession.

His trial is set for next month.