A Laurel police officer shot and killed a 23-year-old man outside an apartment late yesterday after the man shot a woman and then fired in the direction of the officer, authorities said. It was the first fatal officer-involved shooting in the city in seven years, officials said.

The officer, responding to a report of a threat, arrived at the Laurelton Court apartment complex after the man, who was standing on the steps of his apartment building, shot the woman in the right arm just before 6 p.m., said Jim Collins, a Laurel police spokesman.

The woman had been sitting in a maroon Cadillac with two other people, and several other people were in the complex's lot. Several bullet holes pocked the Cadillac, Collins said.

Officer John Sims ordered the suspect to drop the gun, but the man responded by firing two shots, piercing the windshield of Sims's patrol car and striking a nearby parked Jeep Cherokee, Collins said. Sims had left his vehicle and was crouched behind it when the shots were fired.

Sims fired his service weapon twice, apparently hitting the man once in the face, Collins said. The suspect, whom police identified as Michael Wills, was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. The woman's injuries did not appear to be life-threatening, Collins said, and she was treated at a hospital. She was not identified.

"We think it's probably domestic-violence-related," Police Chief David Moore said last night, adding that he did not think the man and woman were married. Police had responded to a similar call at the address earlier in the day, officials said.

Sims, who has been with the city police department for several years, was placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation, as is routine after a shooting.

Neighbors in the 800 block of Karen Court said crime is not usually a major concern in the area, which is sandwiched between Prince George's and Howard counties.

"We've got a lot of good people in our building," said Phil Baldwin, 52. "This ain't normal around here."

Geraldine Nelson, 34, who has lived in the complex for about five years, wondered aloud about the safety of her 12-year-old daughter.

"It's scary," Nelson said. "Now you worry when kids are outside. . . . Now it's, like, in your face."

Investigators examine the vehicle of the Laurel police officer involved in yesterday's shooting at the Laurelton Court apartment complex.