The night he was shot to death by Culpeper County sheriff’s deputies, Eric Wesley Clark had rammed his girlfriend’s head into a minivan door, leaving her bloodied and with a concussion.

The mother of his 3-month-old son blacked out temporarily and then ran for help.

Clark, 43, left the Reva home where they were renting a basement room, knowing the police would be looking for him.

He ran into two friends at the 7–Eleven at the intersection of state routes 211 and 229 and told them what had happened. He said he had been thinking about killing himself, but didn’t have the strength to do it.

If the police found him, he said, he would make them kill him.

And that’s what happened on the night of July 17, according to the findings of independent investigations by the Virginia State Police and Culpeper Commonwealth’s Attorney Paul Walther. Walther’s written report was released Friday afternoon.

Walther said his investigation found that the deputies were acting in self-defense and were justified in killing Clark.

The witnesses who saw Clark at the 7–Eleven said they saw a shotgun in his vehicle, the report said. They tried to talk him into coming to one of their houses to calm down and he initially agreed. Later, he pulled over and told the friends to go on without him.

According to the report, Culpeper Deputy Kerry Grigsby first saw Clark heading south on Route 229. He followed him for eight minutes and had his lights and siren activated. The pursuit continued onto U.S. 522, and Clark eventually increased his speed to 80 mph.

At one point, Grigsby said he saw Clark raise his left hand out the window and shake it up and down several times. Clark’s index finger was pointed forward and his thumb was up, with the other three fingers pointed down. The gesture was captured on a camera mounted in Grigsby’s cruiser. The deputy interpreted that Clark was pretending to fire a gun.

Sgt. Rick McKinley had caught up to Grigsby and Clark at this point, the report said.

As the vehicles approached the intersection of Griffinsburg Road and U.S. 522, Clark slowed down to turn onto Griffinsburg, toward his home. Grigsby performed a “pitting maneuver” and steered his vehicle into the left rear quarter panel of Clark’s van, forcing the vehicle into a spin.

Clark’s van came to rest in a ditch.

McKinley, having turned sharply left behind Grigsby, steered his vehicle into the ditch toward Clark’s van, touching the driver’s side door to prevent Clark from driving away or opening his door to flee.

With the emergency lights and headlights from the vehicles shining, the officers saw Clark retrieve a shotgun from between the front seats, the report said. They said he brought the gun across his body and out the driver’s side

Grigsby loudly issued commands, captured on the cruiser video, for Clark to lower his weapon. The end of the third command was either cut short or possibly drowned out by the sound of shots being fired.

As Grigsby issued the commands, he saw Clark rotate the gun and point it in his direction. Staring down the barrel of Clark’s shotgun, Grigsby fired multiple shots at Clark, the report said. McKinley took cover behind his driver’s door and fired four shots through his vehicle’s windshield at Clark.

Once it was determined that Clark no longer posed a threat, the deputies pulled him from the van and performed CPR. They attempted to revive him using a defibrillator, but medics who arrived on scene determined that Clark was dead.

Walther’s report said it was not clear which bullet caused Clark’s death or who fired it. “Because we conclude that both officers were justified in their actions, we do not need to resolve this issue,” the report said.