Authorities this morning released the name of a man shot to death during a confrontation with Jefferson County sheriff's deputies

The Jefferson County Coroner's Office identified the man as Daniel Thomas Reid. He was a 32-year-old white male who lived at the home where the shooting took place.

Chief Deputy Randy Christian on Wednesday provided this account of what happened:

At about 6:15 p.m. Tuesday, deputies were dispatched to a home in the 6300 block of Clay-Palmerdale Road to conduct a welfare check on an elderly female who lives on the property.

The landlord of the property reported that her son, who lives in a separate residence on the same property, had been harassing the elderly tenant and threatening them with a gun. It was reported that the suspect had access to a loaded handgun.

Deputies arrived and spoke to the tenant. They were told that the landlord's son, later identified as Reid, had been tampering with their phone and cable lines as well as yelling at them and threatening them.

After speaking with the tenant, deputies went to Reid's home to speak with him. He immediately began yelling at them and attempted to go back inside the home.

When deputies prevented him from going inside, he began to fight with them. One deputy deployed a Taser, but it had no effect. The second deputy deployed a taser and again Reid, who was 6-feet, 4-inches tall and weighed just under 300 pounds, wiped the taser contacts away and was not effected.

Reid then wrestled the Taser away from the second deputy and Tased the first deputy. He advanced toward the second deputy who then fired two shots at him.

Reid initially went down, but got up and advanced on the deputy again. The deputy fired a third shot.Reid succumbed to the gunshot wounds.

Deputies rendered first aid and called for paramedics. Reid was pronounced dead on the scene at 7L08 p.m.

It was reported Reid struggled with mental illness, Christian said, but that has yet to be confirmed. According to recent call records, sheriff's deputies have responded to that address two other times, but neither call involved Reid.

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is conducting an investigation at the request of the sheriffs office, which is standard in officer-involved shootings.

"It is sad and tragic anytime there is a loss of life. Our hearts and prayers are with the Reid family,'' Christian said. "This will be a difficult time for them."

"We also ask for prayers and support for our involved deputies as they navigate the emotions of having gone through this,'' he said. "We grieve with this man's family and our community and we are thankful our deputies survived."