Investigators have named the man and officer involved in a deadly shooting last weekend.

Late Wednesday morning, Eau Claire police identified the man who was killed as Michael Caponigro, 59. The officer who shot and killed him was Sgt. Jesse Henning. He has served with the department for eight years. He was promoted to his current position in January 2016.

Investigators said an acquaintance of Caponigro made the call to law enforcement Saturday, suggesting that Caponigro made "homicidal and suicidal statements." Officers found him standing outside with a handgun when they arrived at his home on Woodford Court in Eau Claire. Police say Caponigro threatened them, and that when they tried to speak with him, he refused and went inside his home. During crisis negotiation, police said Caponigro refused to cooperate and threatened to shoot officers on scene multiple times. He was also seen holding different guns while standing near the windows of his home as officers tried to negotiate with him.

At one point, police said Caponigro fired a shotgun through a window at officers. Then Sgt. Henning shot him. Caponigro was pronounced dead at the scene. La Crosse police are investigating, as state law calls for an outside law enforcement agency to investigate cases like this. The department is also reviewing the case internally. Sgt. Henning is on administrative assignment pending a complete review of the investigation.

EAU CLAIRE, Wis. (EAU CLAIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT NEWS RELEASE) -- On July 22, 2017 the Eau Claire Police Department was involved in the fatal shooting of a man who shot at police officers on

the Northwest side of Eau Claire.

The subject, who was pronounced deceased at the scene, has been identified as Eau Claire resident Michael Caponigro DOB

6/19/1958.

The officer involved in the shooting is Sergeant Jesse Henning. Sgt. Henning has served as an officer with the Eau Claire

Police Department for 8 years and was promoted to Sergeant in January of 2016. He is assigned to the South Patrol District

and is a member of the Tactical Response Team.

The initial investigation has shown that an acquaintance of Caponigro contacted law enforcement regarding Caponigro

making homicidal and suicidal statements. Eau Claire Police Officers went to Caponigro's residence at 4527 Woodford Court,

in the City of Eau Claire, in an attempt to speak with him.

Two ECPD Officers arrived at Caponigro's residence at approximately 8:45 p.m. Upon arrival at the residence, the officers

located Caponigro standing outside. He was armed with a handgun and threatened officers. Officers tried to speak with the

subject but he refused to cooperate and retreated back into his residence.

Due to Caponigro's actions, the Eau Claire Police Department assembled their Crisis Negotiation Team and their Tactical

Response Team. The Crisis Negotiation Team was able to make contact with the subject on the phone and spoke with him for

over two hours. The subject continually refused to cooperate and made numerous threats to shoot officers. Throughout the

negotiation process, the male was seen several times holding different guns while standing at the windows of his residence.

As the incident progressed, the subject fired a shotgun through a window of the residence at the officers. Sergeant Henning,

who responded to the scene as a member of the ECPD Tactical Response Team, then shot the subject. Caponigro was

pronounced deceased at the scene.

Per Wisconsin State Statutes and Eau Claire Police Department policy, investigations of this nature are investigated by an

outside law enforcement agency. The La Crosse Police Department is conducting this investigation, and this investigation is

ongoing. An internal administrative review of the incident is also being conducted. Sgt. Henning is on administrative

assignment pending a complete review of the investigation. The results of the investigation will include full disclosure and

citizen review.

Numerous agencies assisted the Eau Claire Police Department during this incident. These agencies include the La

Crosse Police Department, the Eau Claire County Sheriff's Office, the Eau Claire Fire Department, and the Wisconsin State

Patrol.

Jerry Staniszewski

Chief of Police

Eau Claire Police Department