Chico >> A Chico police officer fatally shot a man during a burglary investigation Sunday night in downtown Chico, police said.

The man had not yet been identified by Monday afternoon, Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey said.

Ramsey said multiple body cameras were used by officers during the encounter, and investigators will be going through the footage “frame by frame” as the investigation unfolds.

Some information released by police in the hours after the shooting happened required clarification and correction, Ramsey said, including the approximate time the incident began and the number of security guards who initially responded.

The incident began about 10:45 p.m. Sunday, when a private armed security guard responded to an alarm at Mid Valley Title and Escrow Company, 601 Main St., Ramsey said.

The guard arrived at the business and noticed a fence that is covered in heavy vegetation and surrounds a patio area at the rear of the business had been pulled back, the district attorney said. The guard entered the rear area to investigate and was stabbed in the arm by the unidentified man.

The guard shot the man once with his firearm, striking him, Ramsey said. The wounded man then ran inside the business through a doorway, and the guard waited for Chico police to arrive.

Chico police about 11 p.m. responded to a call reporting a shot had been fired at the business, Ramsey said. Multiple officers and a Butte County sheriff’s deputy with a K-9 swept the business and discovered a man was in a restroom inside the building, refusing to come out.

Officers, he said, asked the man to come out of the restroom multiple times. The district attorney estimated officers tried asking the man to exit the restroom for about 20-30 minutes, adding that a more specific timeline must still be pieced together.

The officers, working on information that the man had been shot, prepared to enter the restroom with the police dog, Ramsey said. Acting on the plan, officers entered the restroom and a struggle ensued.

During the struggle, the district attorney said, the man first stabbed one police officer in the forehead with an unspecified item. The confrontation continued, and another officer was stabbed in the neck, “barely missing that officer’s carotid artery.”

At that point the officer fired two shots at the man, striking him with both shots, Ramsey said. The man was then pulled out of the restroom and taken to medics waiting outside.

The man suffered three bullet wounds — two from the officer and one from the guard — and died at the scene, the district attorney said.

The two hurt officers were taken to Enloe Medical Center and treated and released, police said earlier Monday. A police lieutenant described their injuries as “minor to moderate.”

The guard also was treated at Enloe.

In line with what the police said earlier Monday, officers did find a window that had been broken out at the rear of the business, Ramsey said, adding that it appeared the man had broken into the business through the window and then was able to use a sliding glass door to come back out into the patio area.

The names of the hurt officers were not released Monday. Ramsey said the shooting officer has been in law enforcement for about 30 years, about 20 of which is with the Chico Police Department.

The officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is routine for such incidents.

The guard also was not identified Monday.

Ramsey said stun guns were available at the scene, but because of the positions of the officers and the man, and the way the restroom door was pushed in with the man behind it, there was “no opportunity” to use them.

The man, Ramsey said, was able to reach past officers with an item, stabbing two of them.

The police dog did reach the man before the police officer fired at the man, but the dog’s bites, Ramsey said, were “ineffective.”

Ramsey said the officers entered the restroom knowing that the man had been shot and believing that the man, perhaps, was “going to die.” He added that officers saw “quite a bit of blood” in the area.

The shooting officer, Ramsey said, fired at the man during a situation that appeared to be “spinning dangerously out of control.” He said the officer was concerned that more officers would be stabbed, or that he would be stabbed again.

“It’s a complex scene,” the district attorney said, adding that an investigation by the Butte County Officer Involved Shooting/Critical Incident Protocol Team remained ongoing.

Ramsey said there is footage showing the incident from multiple body cameras, including cameras belonging to an officer who was hurt and the security guard. There is no footage, however, from the shooting officer.

More information may be released Tuesday.

The shooting is the second deadly police shooting in Chico this year. On March 17, two Chico police officers shot and killed Desmond Phillips, a 25-year-old man who suffered from mental illness.

Ramsey subsequently cleared the officers in that shooting of any criminal liability.

Contact reporter Andre Byik at 896-7760.