JEFFERSON COUNTY • A standoff between police and a man they say was on a suicide mission as he shot at officers Monday after carjacking a vehicle ended with the suspect dead.

Jerrod Kershaw, 30, of the 1500 block of Bertha Lane in Pacific, died after a gunbattle with police. When his body was found, he was wearing a bulletproof vest.

The incident began around 9 a.m. when St. Louis County police officers responded to a call about a one-car crash near the interchange of Interstates 270 and 55. It appeared a car ran off the road and others were trying to help the driver, police said.

When one good Samaritan approached the car, Kershaw held him at gunpoint with a shotgun and handgun and demanded his car. Kershaw then carjacked a different car before heading south on I-55, police said.

At a news conference Monday afternoon, St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said Kershaw stole the second vehicle after he saw the first car had a stick shift — and he couldn’t drive it.

St. Louis County officers spotted Kershaw in the second stolen car and tried to stop the vehicle. Shots may have been exchanged during the pursuit, but details were not available.

During the chase, Festus police, Missouri Highway Patrol and the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Department used stop sticks to pop the car’s tires. The car eventually became disabled near Highway 61, south of Festus.

Officers tried to contact Kershaw from a distance and exchanged gunfire with him at 9:23 a.m., police said. Bullets hit police vehicles, but no officers were injured.

Jefferson County deputies rerouted traffic around the scene as SWAT and crisis negotiators tried to approach Kershaw, said Sheriff David Marshak. Officers eventually approached the bullet-riddled car and found Kershaw dead.

The northbound lanes of I-55 reopened Monday afternoon. Southbound lanes reopened about midnight.

Before Monday morning’s carjackings, Kershaw had made threats to family members in the De Soto area and employees at his workplace in Pacific, Marshak said. Police did not say where the man worked.

Kershaw’s mother called police at 9:08 a.m., saying he was en route to kill a family member and himself.

“This individual forced police officers to make a decision in which they had no other choice and no other alternative but to return fire ... I think it was his intent to finish off his day this way,” Marshak said.

The sheriff said he had some concerns Kershaw may have committed other violent acts before the carjackings began.

The sheriff’s department said it had “multiple dealings” with Kershaw in the past, but Marshak did not elaborate on those incidents.

The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Department is handling the investigation.

Kershaw’s grandmother, Dorothy Vilmer, said Monday that she was heartbroken by her grandson’s death.

“He’s always been a good boy. I have nothing but good to say about him,” she said.

Vilmer said Kershaw had “been through hell for quite a while now,” noting health challenges over the years.

She said Kershaw “had not been the same” since he returned from serving overseas in the military.

“They don’t take care of their veterans right,” Vilmer said.

People who identified themselves as friends of Kershaw’s on social media said he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder.

Vilmer, who lives in north St. Louis County, said she last saw Kershaw when he visited her for Mother’s Day.

Connie Brasier said she met Kershaw when they worked at an eye care center and had kept in touch with him despite leaving that job.

“Jerrod was respected and loved by his co-workers,” she said via Facebook. “He loved to joke around and have fun with everyone. He was always there if you needed him.”

She said he was a father and a proud veteran.

In recent months, she said he had been battling some health issues and had been in and out of the hospital.

“Everyone has demons they battle ... just so happens that Jerrod’s demons won this battle,” she added. “My heart goes out to his family and friends that have to mourn this tragedy.”

Ashley Lisenby, Jeremy Kohler and Allison Colburn of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.