A 19-year-old driver arrested in the death of a pedestrian was smoking marijuana with friends in a park shortly before they were involved in a purse-snatching, which triggered a fatal series of events, according to a court record.

A woman who was standing on a raised median on McDowell Road on Thursday morning was struck and killed, as a result.

Brian Israel Morales-Diaz, 19, has been booked into a Maricopa County jail on suspicion of first-degree murder, unlawful flight, endangerment and prohibited possession of a weapon.

RELATED:

Pedestrian killed, 4 others hurt after suspects in purse theft crash while fleeing police

How it all started

About 7:25 a.m. Thursday, a police officer responded to a radio call about a woman who had been robbed of her purse at gunpoint at Pierce Park, at 2150 N. 46th St., according to the court document.

The officer spotted a tan Honda Accord that matched the vehicle described by the victim and positioned the patrol car in front of the vehicle to try to stop the driver from fleeing, the court document said.

But Morales-Diaz, the driver, maneuvered around the officer and sped south along 46th Street, then west on McDowell Road. He failed to stop at a red light and struck the front of a Chevrolet Tahoe headed north on 44th Street, causing the Honda to spin into the back of an empty city bus parked at a bus stop near the intersection, the court document said.

The Tahoe was pushed off course and hit a woman who was standing on the raised median on 44th Street, documents said. The pedestrian died of her injuries.

Soon after, the initial responding officer caught up to Morales-Diaz's vehicle and took Morales-Diaz into custody along with two others in the car, records state. Two additional people who had been in the car fled and have not been found, the court document said.

According to Phoenix police, the others detained were 12-year-old and 14-year-old girls. Police said of the suspects who fled, one was male and one was female.

The explanation

Morales-Diaz told investigators that he had stolen the Honda from his girlfriend's apartment complex earlier that night using a pair of scissors, the court document said.

Morales-Diaz said that he was smoking marijuana with the other passengers in the Honda at the park when they saw a woman walking by with a purse, the record states. The girls with Morales-Diaz said they would steal her purse, but Morales-Diaz told them he didn't think they would do it, records say.

The two girls approached the woman, and one of them punched her in the face while the other activated a stun gun and snatched the purse, records show. Morales-Diaz heard the victim screaming, saw she was making a phone call and told the girls they needed to leave, the court document said.

It was unclear whether the two 12- and 14-year-old girls who were detained were the ones who snatched the purse.

Morales-Diaz said he spotted the police cruiser and feared the officer would stop them because of the robbery and the stolen vehicle and sped away, the court document said. He said his passengers told him to run the red light as they approached the intersection, the document said.

Police said the Tahoe's driver sustained injuries to her left arm and back, but the bus driver was not injured.

Police drew some of Morales-Diaz's blood for analysis. The arresting officer also discovered a stolen Glock 27 semi-automatic handgun in Morales-Diaz's waistband, according to the court document. Morales-Diaz said he had bought the handgun from his uncle, records state.

Morales-Diaz told investigators one of the reasons he ran from police was that he was born in Mexico and was in the country illegally, according to the court document.

He was being held on $1 million bond and was scheduled to appear in court on July 7, 2017.

MORE:

Police ID man found dead of gunshot wound as a home-invasion suspect

Tempe police officer, 2nd driver collide at intersection

2 suspected arrested in Scottsdale 'bank jugging' case