Dash Coleman

Many tears were shed in Pulaski Square on Friday.

But laughter and applause also erupted, as more than 100 people gathered to pay tribute to Scott Waldrup, a 30-year-old restaurant manager who was killed early Wednesday when he was struck by a teenage driver fleeing police as Fourth of July festivities ended in downtown Savannah.

Waldrup was a "pretty amazing" man who had an ability to make friends and bring people together at the drop of a hat, said his partner, Tart Johnson.

"If he decided like two days ago that he wanted to throw a party in Pulaski Square, he could do it," Johnson said. "And no one can compare to him, but we have all just done that… He's that special kind of person, but we are all taking that from what he left behind. He gave that to us."

Waldrup moved to Savannah in 2011 and quickly became well known downtown, working at Ruth's Chris Steakhouse before joining the staff at The Grey, where he worked his way up to general manager. He had recently taken a leadership role at Savannah Pride.

"I could not be prouder of my son," said Waldrup's mother, Terry. "He loved Savannah. Savannah loved him back."

In the square, friends and family members strung up balloons, played music, drank beer and looked at photo montages showing Waldrup's life. They shared stories of his vibrant personality, affinity for Speedo swimming briefs and his love of the Fourth of July - his favorite holiday.

"Scott lived to splash the world with color," said his younger sister, Stacey. "… He hated anything that be considered boring. He loved big cities and the great outdoors, trees and leaves that were extra crunchy. His spirit animal was a black bear, and he was definitely a Gryffindor."

Waldrup's older sister, Jennifer Jones, said her brother was always looking for a challenge, remembering how he loved to debate politics and how he once went on a solo backpacking trip into Glacier National Park.

"He lived each day as a new adventure and took life on with gusto," Jones said. "… He led a magical life."

Mashama Bailey, the chef at The Grey, called Waldrup "a pulse and a heartbeat" in the restaurant.

Bailey, who was walking just steps behind Waldrup when he died, said it happened so suddenly that "he did not suffer."

The violent nature of his death has prompted outcry this week, including a march on City Hall.

Waldrup was crossing West Bay Street just after midnight when an SUV barreled toward him. According to witnesses, he tried to push people out of the way before being hit and instantly killed in a wreck that also claimed the lives of two of the vehicle's occupants, 20-year-old Gabriel Magulias and 17-year-old Spencer Stuckey.

The SUV's driver, 17-year-old Jerry Chambers Jr., has been charged with three counts of murder. Minutes before the crash, Chambers, Magulias and Stuckey were involved in a gang-fueled drive-by shooting that injured two people just outside of City Market, police said.

John Morisano, founding partner of The Grey, used his time at Friday's memorial to demand change in the way the city deals with violence.

"We need to look at it," Morisano said. "We need to confront it. We can no longer stick our heads in the ground or accept the paralysis because of social, racial and class divides. It has to end."

There have been 25 homicides in Savannah so this year, and the last two years have seen homicide totals top 50.

"What is going on here, it's not a black or white issue," Morisano said. "It's not a gay or straight issue. It's a Savannah issue. Political and cultural loyalties don't matter when people are dying. And all of us, all of our civic city, county and state leadership, need to cast those loyalties and encumbrances aside and work together."

He said Wednesday's violence showed the worst of Savannah, but that the support of the community showed the city's best.

"The bones of the Savannah area are really good, and we can make the narrative of this city right again, but it's going to require real, substantive change at every level," Morisano said.

Waldrup's mother, Terry, said she hopes her son's death galvanizes that change.

"I am praying and hoping that this incident will help Savannah to get to the next plane to learn to love one another and come together as all people, which is what Scott really wanted everyone to do always anyway," she said. "He loved everyone."