Relatives said a 2-year-old girl who was killed Wednesday after a police chase and crash in New Orleans East was a "happy and jolly little girl."Ivory Washington was one two people who were ejected from a vehicle when the crash happened Wednesday afternoon on Chef Menteur Highway near Lonely Oak.Louisiana State Police said the crash happened after a chase began earlier in the day Wednesday at Canal and Rampart streets. State troopers assigned in New Orleans said they found a vehicle with a stolen license plate, and they attempted to box in that vehicle to prevent a chase from beginning.Officials said the driver, Kenneth Davis, backed up, went around state troopers and evaded traffic stops. Davis went down Canal Street to Claiborne Avenue and onto the interstate before exiting on Chef Menteur Highway, officials said.Davis, 21, is the boyfriend of Washington's mother, relatives said Thursday.It was when Davis was exiting Chef Menteur that the vehicle he was driving struck a box truck in the right lane, officials said. He struck the back of the truck, causing the vehicle to lose control and veer off the road and into a fence, officials said.Ivory Washington and another passenger, a man who has not been identified, were ejected from the car. Neither the child nor the man were restrained or wearing a seat belt.Officials said Davis shot and killed himself after the crash.Washington's great-grandmother contacted WDSU on Thursday to describe how loved the girl was and that she will be missed.State police said the investigation will continue. Additional details were not released.Editor's Note: State police said Davis was Washington's father, but that information was corrected after relatives confirmed he was her mother's boyfriend.Keep up with local news, weather and current events with the WDSU app here. Sign up for our email newsletters to get breaking news right in your inbox. Click here to sign up!

Relatives said a 2-year-old girl who was killed Wednesday after a police chase and crash in New Orleans East was a "happy and jolly little girl."

Ivory Washington was one two people who were ejected from a vehicle when the crash happened Wednesday afternoon on Chef Menteur Highway near Lonely Oak.

Advertisement

Louisiana State Police said the crash happened after a chase began earlier in the day Wednesday at Canal and Rampart streets. State troopers assigned in New Orleans said they found a vehicle with a stolen license plate, and they attempted to box in that vehicle to prevent a chase from beginning.

Officials said the driver, Kenneth Davis, backed up, went around state troopers and evaded traffic stops. Davis went down Canal Street to Claiborne Avenue and onto the interstate before exiting on Chef Menteur Highway, officials said.

Davis, 21, is the boyfriend of Washington's mother, relatives said Thursday.

It was when Davis was exiting Chef Menteur that the vehicle he was driving struck a box truck in the right lane, officials said. He struck the back of the truck, causing the vehicle to lose control and veer off the road and into a fence, officials said.

Ivory Washington and another passenger, a man who has not been identified, were ejected from the car. Neither the child nor the man were restrained or wearing a seat belt.

Officials said Davis shot and killed himself after the crash.

Washington's great-grandmother contacted WDSU on Thursday to describe how loved the girl was and that she will be missed.

State police said the investigation will continue. Additional details were not released.



Editor's Note: State police said Davis was Washington's father, but that information was corrected after relatives confirmed he was her mother's boyfriend.

Keep up with local news, weather and current events with the WDSU app here. Sign up for our email newsletters to get breaking news right in your inbox. Click here to sign up!

