FILE PHOTO

The Weber County Attorney’s Office is investigating the death of 49 year-old Logan resident Bruce Neil Thompson after he was tasered twice in one night last week. The death occurred at Logan Regional Hospital late Thursday night, Jan. 17. Logan City Police confirmed Thompson’s identity Wednesday evening. Weber County Attorney Dee Smith confirms there were multiple law enforcement agencies involved in the incident.

Smith says as is typical in such circumstances, an outside agency is assigned to investigate, that’s why it’s been turned over to Weber County officials. Smith says an investigator is interviewing individuals concerning the death and its surrounding circumstances and an autopsy is being performed on the man to determine the exact cause of death. Smith expects a full report by the end of the week.

According to a Logan City Police press release, Logan City Police responded to a report of disorderly conduct at approximately 7:30 p.m. Thursday evening. When officers arrived they found Thompson screaming at Satan and acting strange. He would not calm down or respond to officers.

Thompson reportedly reached inside a doorway and told officers he was reaching for a gun and refused to show them his hands. Officers used a Taser on him to subdue him and take him into custody.

Paramedics were summoned to the scene and Thompson was transported to Logan Regional Hospital via ambulance. Thompson reportedly calmed down and officers were able to interview him and formally cite him with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest. He was then released to hospital staff.

Approximately three hours later Logan Police were called back to the hospital on reports of a combative patient fighting with hospital security. It was the same man. Logan Regional Hospital security used a Taser on Thompson again, after which his heart stopped.

Police arrived on scene after the second Taser had been used on Thompson and officers found him in full cardiac arrest and being attended to by hospital staff. They were unable to revive Thompson.