Tida Garcia lives with a ghost.

Moises Balladares has been dead for almost two years. Avondale police shot him just feet outside the front door of his house — the house where Garcia still lives.

The blood is gone, and so is the small memorial of miniature American flags and patriotic-colored roses that marked the spot where he died on the night of July 25, 2017.

But he's still there.

Balladares is present in nearly every part of the house, from the enlarged photos that guard the front door to his Purple Heart medal safely stored in a new shadowbox (after he destroyed the last one on that volatile night). It's in the paint colors and the furniture he chose during his last few good days.

In a sense, it's still his home — his home he tenderly prepared for Garcia and her children before he left them.

"He just always had these little signs he was going to leave us," Garcia said. "But he's always going to be here with me."

Pictures of Moises Balladares, a veteran, in his fiancee's home in Avondale on April 4, 2019. Patrick Breen/The Republic

A last night together with no pain or suffering

Garcia remembers their last night together as being eerily perfect. Balladares should have been stressed and anxious — he almost always was. In just a few days, he’d be meeting with a bankruptcy court lawyer. He’d been having issues at work and an earlier veterans support meeting left him stewing with uncomfortable thoughts.

He immediately headed upstairs to lie down for a bit after coming home. The music from downstairs drew Balladares back down as Garcia danced with the kids.

“Moises could never be away from us,” Garcia said.

And he rarely was. He accompanied Garcia to her hair appointments or to the grocery store. They couldn’t be apart, and he embraced Garcia’s six children like they were his own. Balladares had his own kids, but he missed years of their lives during his four deployments to Afghanistan. He came home to children who were growing quickly and hardly knew who he was.

It was different with Garcia’s children. He was always there, and in them, he found a family that needed him in the same way he needed them.

To Garcia, Balladares will always be the man from that last night: Her gorgeous man with his brilliant blue eyes dancing around the kitchen with her and the children. It was the same Balladares who was always trying to make her smile or who would lie on the tile floor to be level with his vet dog, Duke.

There was no pain or suffering that night — he was just joy.

For more stories that matter, subscribe to azcentral.com.

Garcia would never see the man who pointed a rifle at police in a last-ditch attempt to end the life that caused him so much pain. That wasn’t the man she knew.

The Arizona Republic compiled the details of what happened that night from Garcia's recounting, as well as police reports and police interviews with some of the officers present.

Struggling to adapt to civilian life after war

Balladares enrolled in the Army when he was only 19, in the years following 9/11. He served as special forces and was trained as a sniper. He spent the next decade going back and forth between two separate worlds of the Army and home. Coming back home was almost as hard as leaving.

Tida Garcia holds a picture of her fiancé, Moises Balladares, a veteran who was shot by police responding to his suicide call, in her home in Avondale on April 4, 2019. Patrick Breen/The Republic

War nearly destroyed his body. He was shot in the stomach once and was injured in an IED explosion. His hip and knee were completely shattered.

He was medically discharged in 2013 as an American hero with a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star.

Balladares never fully came home, though. Civilian life was too much for him, as were his first two marriages.

There were many days where he couldn’t get out of bed. He often woke up to helicopter sounds that weren’t there, his heart racing as his brain thought they were back at war. Red blotches would form on the skin of his arms when he talked about his ex-wife or how he was going to manage the child-support payments.

Years later, his organs would start to shut down as his creatine levels dropped. The pain and the overwhelming thoughts pushed him to doctors. Narcotics helped combat the PTSD and depression some. He’d self-medicate with alcohol when the pills weren’t enough to deal with what was happening inside his head and body.

'It was beautiful. Then he passed away'

They met by chance. Garcia was a single mother with six kids working in the health care industry. Balladares’ sister asked Garcia to help him find a job in 2015, a few years after he was discharged from the Army.

It was clear he was struggling and Garcia wanted to help. Their friendship quickly turned into a relationship.

She pushed him to try harder to get better. Acupuncture replaced some of the pills and all but one of his guns were moved out of the house after a string of suicide attempts. He never stopped talking about death. It was always there like an invisible third member of their relationship.

He asked her to marry him at the end of a rose-covered path in the sand in Laguna Beach three months before he died. Balladares dropped to one knee and held the ring box out to Garcia. As he started to speak, a wave crashed toward them, sending them running back to higher land bent over with laughter.

He tried again, and she said yes.

“It was beautiful,” Garcia recounted. “Then he passed away.”

Tida Garcia talks about the shooting of her fiancé, Moises Balladares, a veteran, in her home in Avondale on April 4, 2019. Patrick Breen/The Republic

'Please don't hurt him. He just needs help'

Garcia knew it was one of Balladares’ bad days as soon as he woke up that morning. He kept snapping at her for being on her phone and his head was all anger and nerves at the thought of the impending bankruptcy case.

He was distant when she came home from lunch to try and talk with him. She reassured him he’d be fine — they were partners, after all. It only got worse when she didn’t give him a kiss goodbye before she headed back to work.

He was already drinking when she came home that evening. Garcia didn’t argue when Balladares announced he was going out. It was best to not engage and let him calm down on his own.

It’s not clear where Balladares went during that time, but Garcia speculated he may have done some kind of drug. He likely continued drinking, too, she said.

He had been gone for two hours when he called Garcia. His words ran together as he slurred that he loved her and the kids with all his heart. She begged him to come home.

Balladares headed directly upstairs when he returned home. Garcia could hear him going through drawers and fiddling with things as she sat on the couch watching TV with the kids. It’s what he did when he was anxious. It was best to let him be.

Her phone rang. It was Balladares calling from upstairs.

“Take the kids and leave,” he said.

He didn’t want them here when this happened. He hung up before she could respond.

She instead went upstairs and pushed at their bedroom door, trying to get to him behind the locked door. In the past, she had pulled guns out of his hands. She wasn’t afraid to do it again. She just wanted to get him the help he needed.

Inside, Balladares had moved the furniture to block the door. Two open bottles of booze and strewn pill containers sat on the nightstand next to the unmade bed. His camouflage combat uniform was crumpled on the floor.

Garcia didn’t recognize the man who exited the bedroom. His shirt was gone, replaced with his camo tactical vest from the Army. His eyes told her the man she knew wasn’t there anymore.

“I felt a fear,” Garcia said. “I’ve been through this with Moises, but this was different. He had those bright blue eyes and this day his eyes were dark. It wasn’t Moises. It wasn’t him.”

He screamed at her to get out. She pleaded with him to go with her to the hospital.

Then, she called the police.

“Who else do you call? You think the police. The police are going to help.”

Avondale police arrived shortly after 8 p.m. as Garcia packed the kids into the car. Balladares only had a handgun, she told police. He would never hurt anyone else.

“He’s going to hurt himself,” she said. “Please don’t hurt him. He just needs help.”

Hours of talking, then nothing but gunshots

Officer Chad Drexler could see Balladares making his way down the stairs through the large window on the front of the house. Balladares was still wearing his tactical vest and a beige pair of shorts. He had an AR-15 in his hands.

The presence of the AR-15 escalated the situation. Garcia, who at this point was being kept behind police tape down the street, hadn't known Balladares had retrieved the second gun when they moved into the new house months before.

Drexler watched Balladares move through the house, switching off the lights as he passed from room to room. For one brief moment, before Balladares switched off the last light in the foyer and stepped out the front door, they locked eyes.

Tida Garcia talks about shooting death of her fiancé, U.S. Army veteran Moises Balladares Tida Garcia talks about the July 2017 shooting death of her fiancé, U.S. Army veteran Moises Balladares. Arizona Republic

Seconds passed as Balladares stood silently in front of the door, eyes wide and still clutching the AR-15. He'd tucked a black semi-automatic handgun into the front of his tactical vest. His skin was damp with sweat in the uncomfortable heat of the July night.

Balladares’ mouth opened and he began to spew out a slurry of grievances — the VA couldn’t help him, all his friends were dead, no one cared about him, his country abandoned him.

The police were there to help, Sgt. Nicholas Nocella assured him. He just needed to put the gun down first. Officer Beau Wagner jumped in, telling Balladares that he had also served in the military. The officers kept their weapons trained on Balladares as he quickly jumped from calm to upset and back again before returning to the house.

He came back out to the front yard minutes later clutching a wooden shadow box containing a folded American flag, his Purple Heart award, Army regalia and other memorabilia.

“F(---) this flag!” he yelled as he threw the box to the ground, the contents spilling onto the grass.

Pictures of Moises Balladares, a veteran, in his fiancee's home in Avondale on April 4, 2019. Patrick Breen/The Republic

Wagner spoke with Balladares for more than two hours in front of the house. He had been special forces, too.

During that time, the Avondale Tactical Operations Unit arrived, parking a massive military-grade armored vehicle in front of the house. The roar of the vehicle hummed through the night air.

Balladares went in and out of the house and backyard. He brought his dog Duke into the front yard before taking him back into the house. He dropped the AR-15 and picked it up again, loading a new magazine into the rifle. Discarded full magazines sat in the gravel and lawn where they were dropped as though Balladares strategically placed them in case he might need them later.

Each movement forced the police to reassess their location and set up a new containment line. The armored vehicle sat roaring at the curb and police cars blocked the entrances to the street. A law enforcement helicopter circled overhead as the last hour passed by, spotlight on Balladares as he moved unpredictably.

Was he questioning whether the beat of the helicopter blades was real or in his head?

Officer Stephen Alt had also been special forces. Some Avondale officers have gone through negotiations training, but Alt wasn't one of them. There wasn’t one immediately available that night. He relied on the training he did have to try and find a hook — some way to relate to Balladares.

“He just appeared to be in a state of crisis,” Alt later told an investigator. “The guy was very upset and it was — it was like there was nothin’ you could say or even try (to) level or reason with this guy. …”

Most Valley law enforcement agencies, including Avondale police, undergo some form of crisis intervention training. An Avondale police spokesperson said all new recruits participate in classes on the subject in the police academy. About half of Avondale's officers have gone through crisis intervention training to understand how to handle many of the mental health crises, including suicidal subjects.

More cases: Others killed by law enforcement in similar cases Explore

Balladares held the handgun up to his head and breathed in deep gulps of air as he prepared to pull the trigger. He considered death. He couldn’t do it, though. He lowered his gun back down, taking a few puffs from an electronic cigarette.

He didn’t blame them for what they were doing, Balladares told the officers, their guns still pointed at him. He questioned whether his fiancé could see him and what rifles the officers were using.

“I want to know what’s going to go through me.”

A tactical negotiator arrived 90 minutes into the standoff, but Nocella couldn’t turn things over then. The situation was too unstable.

Balladares' rifle stayed pointed at the ground through most of the encounter. Alt and Nocella urged him to put the gun down so they could talk. They would take him to the hospital or wherever he wanted to go. They promised to get him the help he needed.

Then Balladares walked across the street toward the armored car where six officers were positioned. He brought the vape to his lips again, a long inhale followed by an exhale of thick smoke. His breathing quickened as he raised the AR-15 to his shoulder and checked the chamber for a round.

“It looks like he just took the safe(ty) off,” Alt said.

Nocella later told investigators he flinched as Ballardes placed the butt of the rifle against his shoulder and his finger on the trigger.

Then there was nothing but gunshots.

'I shouldn't have called the cops'

Three officers fired at Balladares a total of 10 times. He never fired his rifle.

He was handcuffed as soon as his body slumped to the ground. An officer kicked away the long black rifle that lay near his feet.

Tida Garcia talks about the shooting of her fiancé, Moises Balladares, a veteran, in her home in Avondale on April 4, 2019. Patrick Breen/The Republic

He was taken to the hospital and pronounced dead there. His autopsy report indicated his blood-alcohol level was more than two times the legal limit and he used cocaine earlier in the day.

Garcia heard the string of gunshots from where she'd been forced to wait outside the police perimeter. Officers held her back as she tried to run toward Balladares. She just needed to talk to him. If she could talk to him maybe she could fix the situation, she thought.

She didn’t know he was dying in the street.

Department of Public Safety troopers, who took over the investigation, told Garcia that Balladares was dead once she arrived at the hospital.

The sound of gunshots kept resonating through her head as they asked her questions about the day leading up to the shooting.

“He was a good person,” Garcia told the troopers. “He took care of his country. I shouldn’t have called the cops. I probably shouldn’t have called them. I should have tried to help him myself. I just didn’t know what to do anymore.”

In May 2018, the Maricopa County Attorney’s Office determined the shooting of Balladares was justified.

'I'll love you forever. Til the day I die'

People talk about death like it’s a far-off plan, something intangible.

Balladares talked about death like it was an old friend he couldn’t wait to visit.

A few days before the shooting, Balladares asked Garcia how long she would wait to be with somebody else after he died. She told him he was crazy. Why was he talking like that? They were going to spend the rest of their lives together.

But he kept pushing her to answer.

One of the last texts Moises Balladares sent his fiancee, Tida Garcia, before he was shot and killed by Avondale police in 2017. Courtesy of Tida Garcia

She promised him five years. He swore he would never be with anyone else as he chased her up the stairs.

Five years may not be enough for Garcia, though.

Garcia’s whole life is about Balladares now. She’s dedicated herself to understanding what was happening inside his head that night and to telling his story. She won’t let it die.

She said there’s some comfort in knowing Balladares finally found the peace he so desperately needed.

And now she's trying to find her own peace.

At first, Garcia couldn’t bear the thought of staying in the house. The spot where her fiancé died was there every time she left their house or looked out the front window. Everything smelled of him. He was everywhere.

The house sat on the market for months. It didn’t sell.

It was a sign, Garcia thought.

Now, she's decided she could never leave the home Balladares prepared for her and her children.

Reach public safety reporter Bree Burkitt at bburkitt@republicmedia.com or at 602-444-8515. Follow her on Twitter at @breeburkitt.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.

THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC TEAM Research and reporting: Uriel J. Garcia, Bree Burkitt

Data: Uriel J. Garcia

Data visualization: Will Flannigan, Chris Amico, Stan Wilson and Annette Meade

Digital production and copy editing: Joshua Ling

Videography: Thomas Hawthorne, Patrick Breen

Editing: Alia Beard Rau

Social media: Danielle Woodward

Additional contributors: Jessica Boehm, Pamela Ren Larson, Jack Lechich, Grace Oldham, Agnel Philip, Jason Pohl, Justin Price, Perry Vandell

Uriel J. Garcia, Bree BurkittUriel J. GarciaWill Flannigan, Chris Amico, Stan Wilson and Annette MeadeJoshua LingThomas Hawthorne, Patrick BreenAlia Beard RauDanielle WoodwardJessica Boehm, Pamela Ren Larson, Jack Lechich, Grace Oldham, Agnel Philip, Jason Pohl, Justin Price, Perry Vandell