SAN ANTONIO – A San Antonio police officer was injured and a home invasion suspect was killed early Wednesday during a shootout in the parking lot of an apartment complex on the city's Northwest Side.

According to a news release from the San Antonio Police Department, an officer responded to a call around 12:05 a.m. at 6130 Ingram Road, where a woman said three men forced their way into her apartment and took some property before fleeing towards the back of the complex.

Related: Man shot, killed by police no stranger to SAPD

Two other officers arrived and went to look for the suspects, and found them inside a parked vehicle behind one of the apartment buildings, police said.

When one of the officers tried to take the driver into custody, a physical struggle ensued, police said.

The second officer tried to take the front seat passenger into custody, and that suspect also resisted, police said.

While both officers struggled with the two suspects, a third suspect emerged from the back seat of the vehicle and pulled out a handgun and opened fire on one of the officers, police said.

Chief McManus briefing officer involved shooting at 6130 Ingram Rd. Officer down Posted by San Antonio Police Department on Tuesday, July 25, 2017

Officer Nathan Becerra was struck once in the abdomen and once in the leg. Despite being wounded, Becerra managed to retreat for cover, and he and the other officer returned fire on the gunman, hitting him several times and killing him, police said.

One of the suspects who had been fighting with the officer immediately surrendered and was taken into custody. The other suspect, Dennis Moran, 27, fled on foot and was apprehended without incident a few blocks away.

Becerra, a 4-year veteran of the force, was taken to University Hospital, where he is listed in serious but stable condition. His injuries weren't believed to be life-threatening, police said.

The two suspects, several witnesses and the woman were taken to Police Headquarters to be interviewed by the Officer-Involved Shooting team, police said.

Moran is charged with evading arrest, felon in possession of a firearm and wanted person.

This is a developing story. Stay with KSAT 12 on-air and online for the latest developments.

--------------------------------------------------------

Don't miss a thing. Get email alerts from KSAT12 today.

Get alerted to news events as they happen or sign up for a scheduled news headline email that is delivered right to your inbox. Breaking news, severe weather, daily forecasts, entertainment news, all of the day’s important events to keep you up to date wherever you are.



Sign up today. It's Free.