A Brooklyn man with a history of mental illness charged at cops with a 10-inch bread knife and was killed Monday — by a cop who recently shot another man under similar circumstances, sources told The Post.

Dwayne Jeune, 32, was shot five times during a brief confrontation inside the East Flatbush apartment he shared with his elderly parents, law-enforcement sources said.

Officer Miguel Gonzalez opened fire after another cop tried to subdue Jeune with a Taser, “which proved to be ineffective,” NYPD Chief of Patrol Terence Monahan said.

Jeune’s mom called 911 for help at around 12:20 p.m. amid an argument that a neighbor heard erupt inside their fifth-floor apartment inside 1370 New York Ave., sources said.

“They [were] fighting, and it came out into the hall. I don’t know who he was screaming at,” the neighbor said.

Four uniformed cops from the 67th Precinct went to the apartment, Monahan said, and the “incident unraveled within seconds of the officers entering.”

Jeune was declared dead at the scene, and sources identified Gonzalez as the same cop who shot and wounded another mentally ill man in East Flatbush on Oct. 26.

In that incident, Davonte Pressley, 23, called 911 and reported a man with a gun outside the Super Clean Laundromat, then gave a description of himself in a bid to commit “suicide by cop,” sources have said.

When cops arrived at the scene, Pressley allegedly lunged at them with a knife and was shot three times in the torso.

Pressley — who suffered from bipolar disorder, according to his mom — survived and is awaiting trial on charges of attempted assault on a police officer.

Jeune’s mom previously called 911 in 2014 to report her son wasn’t taking his medication, and he had a record of five arrests, sources said.

Chief Monahan said investigators hadn’t determined how many shots were fired Monday, but Jeune’s neighbor, Charmaine Goodin, said one round whizzed through her apartment and pierced a bottle of seltzer on the dining-room table while her 14-year-old daughter slept.

“Just to think about it, I burst into tears,” Goodin said. “That’s where she sat and ate this morning, she was right there. If she’d been there . . . she would have been hit.”

Additional reporting by Kevin Sheehan, Sarah Trefethen and Tina Moore