A lawsuit filed against state troopers by the family of a Denver man who died while under restraint by Wyoming Highway Patrol officers in 2002 has been settled, according to an online database.

﻿A formal order dismissing the lawsuit, signed by U.S. District Judge Alan Johnson, was filed this week in federal court.

The settlement brings to an end a case that begin in 2004, when the estate and relatives of Bruce James Weigel sued Wyoming claiming troopers used excessive force in subduing him after a traffic accident near Cheyenne. Court records state Weigel died after a trooper put weight on his back while Weigel was handcuffed.

Court documents show the court was first made aware of the settlement on April 18, one week before the matter was slated to go before a jury. Johnson signed an order dismissing the lawsuit Wednesday. Court documents do not outline the settlement’s terms.

"The settlement reflects a compromise of a disputed claim," Senior Assistant Attorney General Theodore Racines said in a statement. "The defendants expressly deny any wrongdoing and no person or entity should regard the settlement as an admission of liability or wrongdoing. All too often, peace officers must deal with people who act unpredictably. Unfortunately, these encounters can rapidly evolve into life or death situations through no fault of the officer involved."

Attorneys for the plaintiffs did not respond to a message seeking comment Thursday.

Court records state Weigel drove his car into a Wyoming Highway Patrol cruiser on the morning of Dec. 20, 2002, on Interstate 25 south of Cheyenne. Weigel then got out of his car and was ultimately hit in the chest by a mirror on a passing van.

Two troopers tackled Weigel when he continued to try to cross the highway, according to court records.

A passing motorist helped the troopers subdue Weigel by pinning his legs down, and his legs were eventually tied together, according to court documents. As Weigel continued to struggle, a trooper used his knees and hands to apply pressure to Weigel’s upper body for a few minutes.

Court documents state Weigel then went into cardiac arrest and died.

An autopsy found Weigel died of “mechanical asphyxiation,” meaning he wasn’t able to breathe because of the weight on his back.

The subsequent lawsuit named troopers John K. Broad and Devan Henderson as defendants, along with the state.