The suspect involved in a kidnapping and carjacking was shot by Bernalillo County deputies after pinning an officer to a light pole with a stolen car. Around 6 a.m. Bernalillo County deputies were called to assist Isleta police regarding man trying to steal golf carts from the golf course. When deputies arrived the suspect took off on foot. A short time later a retired deputy in the area called 911 to report a man trying to break into his car. That retired deputy was able to scare the man off but then heard his neighbor’s door being kicked in.Deputies responded to that scene and set up a perimeter around that home on Las Garzas Lane – at which time the garage door opened and the suspect they were looking for took off in the homeowner’s car with two other people inside. Those people could be heard screaming and banging on the windows of the car as the suspect drove off. A car chase ensued and deputies were able to stop the suspect using a pit maneuver. As deputies were working to block the suspect and get him out of the car he accelerated and pinned a officer between the car and a light-pole. At which time officials say other deputies on scene opened fire on the suspect, fatally shooting him. The deputy pinned was taken to the hospital with a broken arm and leg and the hostages are said to be OK.This is the fourth shooting involving BCSO in the last month. Related coverage: Three deputy-involved shootings in a week signal rise in violent crime:Live from the field: Sasha Lenninger reports:

The suspect involved in a kidnapping and carjacking was shot by Bernalillo County deputies after pinning an officer to a light pole with a stolen car.

Around 6 a.m. Bernalillo County deputies were called to assist Isleta police regarding man trying to steal golf carts from the golf course. When deputies arrived the suspect took off on foot.

Advertisement

A short time later a retired deputy in the area called 911 to report a man trying to break into his car. That retired deputy was able to scare the man off but then heard his neighbor’s door being kicked in.

Deputies responded to that scene and set up a perimeter around that home on Las Garzas Lane – at which time the garage door opened and the suspect they were looking for took off in the homeowner’s car with two other people inside.

Those people could be heard screaming and banging on the windows of the car as the suspect drove off.

A car chase ensued and deputies were able to stop the suspect using a pit maneuver.

As deputies were working to block the suspect and get him out of the car he accelerated and pinned a officer between the car and a light-pole.

At which time officials say other deputies on scene opened fire on the suspect, fatally shooting him.

The deputy pinned was taken to the hospital with a broken arm and leg and the hostages are said to be OK.

This is the fourth shooting involving BCSO in the last month.

Related coverage:

Three deputy-involved shootings in a week signal rise in violent crime:



This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.