(Bel Air, MD – June 13, 2009) – Harford County Sheriff’s deputies are investigating the death of Dwight Jerome Madison, 48, who has no fixed address.

On June 11, 2009 at 8:50 p.m. deputies responded to the 900 block of Hillswood Road, Bel Air for a reported suspicious person who was later identified as Dwight Madison. Madison did not live in the vicinity and claimed that he was looking for a friend who he only knew by a first name. He was advised to leave the area, which is private property, by the responding deputy. At 10:54 p.m. deputies were again called to the 900 block of Hillswood Road, Bel Air for a reported suspicious person banging on doors. The suspicious person was again identified as Dwight Madison who again advised he was homeless and searching for his friend who he only knew by a first name. Madison was subsequently arrested for trespassing and transported to the Processing Center at the Detention Center. Madison arrived at the Processing Center at approximately 11:35 p.m.

At 1:24 a.m. on June 12, 2009, deputies assigned to the Processing Center attempted to fingerprint Madison as part of the processing procedures. Madison became uncooperative and refused to comply with deputies’ instructions. As a result, Madison was placed back into the holding cell until he became cooperative.

At approximately 9:10 a.m. Madison was approached regarding being fingerprinted and advised he would cooperate with the deputies. After being fingerprinted deputies began to escort Madison to the commissioner’s office for his initial hearing when he suddenly became combative and a struggle ensued. During the confrontation Madison fought with two correctional deputies and one civilian employee. Madison was able to grab and choke one of the deputies during the struggle. A third correctional deputy arrived to assist who also was equipped with a TASER Electronic Control Device. Madison was warned at least two times and physically shown the TASER device. He continued to be combative and the TASER device was deployed striking Madison in the upper leg. Madison then fell, striking his head on the floor. Deputies observed Madison to be in medical distress and rendered aid while also requesting facility medical personnel and an ambulance to assist.

The Bel Air Volunteer Fire Department treated Madison on the scene and transported him to Upper Chesapeake Medical Center. Madison was later transported to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma where he later died today, June 13, 2009.

One of the involved correctional deputies was treated by Detention Center medical personnel for minor injuries.