A Palos Park couple killed when a police car on an emergency call collided with their vehicle were among four people who died Sunday in separate crashes, authorities said.

Edward Siepak, 74, and his wife, Vivian, 69, were returning from a relative's house early Sunday when a Palos Hills police car struck their vehicle at 103rd Street and Roberts Road, said Battalion Chief Dan Russell of the North Palos Fire Protection District.

Advertisement

Also Sunday morning, a collision on Chicago's South Side killed two drivers after one ran a stoplight, police said.

In the Palos Hills crash the tactical officer's car struck the passenger side of the Siepaks' vehicle, authorities said.

Advertisement

Officials released few details about the crash and declined to say what kind of emergency call the police officer was answering.

Russell said he didn't know who was responsible for the accident, how fast the drivers were traveling or who was driving the Siepaks' car.

Firefighters had to remove the couple from their car, Russell said. They were taken to Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, where they died of their injuries, officials said.

The officer, who has been on the force for three years, was treated at Christ and released.

Palos Hills Deputy Police Chief Steve Good said Sunday that he had turned over the investigation to the Cook County Sheriff's Department, which sent a team to the scene to reconstruct what happened.

"As we do with any accident that involves one of our vehicles, we've asked an outside agency to investigate," Good said.

He said he couldn't remember another time when a Palos Hills police car had been involved in a fatal crash.

"Our officers do get into accidents from time to time. It's part of the job because we drive so much and in emergency conditions," Good said.

Advertisement

Sheriff's spokeswoman Penny Mateck would not comment on the investigation.

The Siepaks, who lived in the 11500 block of Autobahn Drive, were active at their Catholic church and were just starting to enjoy retirement, said their son Randy.

Edward Siepak, a retired phone company worker, was a Korean War vet who helped at the local VFW hall. Vivian Siepak, a former secretary, volunteered at Palos Community Hospital, family said.

Their three children and six grandchildren were struggling to piece together what happened.

"They were just loving parents, always full of life," their son said. "We are handling it as best we can, but it's still a guessing game what happened."

Killed in the other crash were Andrew Hardney, 45, of the 1600 block of West Garfield Boulevard in Chicago and Monte Johnson, 36, of the 500 block of Calhoun Avenue in Calumet City, a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office said.

Advertisement

Both men were pronounced dead within an hour of the 8:13 a.m. collision, the spokesman said. Hardney was heading west on 51st Street at Halsted Street in a mini-van when he drove through a red light, according to police, who said the van veered into oncoming traffic and hit a sport-utility vehicle driven by Johnson.

The SUV jumped the sidewalk and hit a residential building, police said.