Woman in stolen truck causes deadly crash, hits and injures Metro officer

An erratic driver in a stolen pickup truck caused two crashes in the west valley on Wednesday, killing one person and injuring two others, including an officer whose vehicle she purposely rammed, according to Metro Police.

The suspect, Oriana Leausa, 26, was taken to University Medical Center with minor injuries, which were initially described as life threatening, police said. She was later released and booked without bail at the Clark County Detention Center on a count of DUI.

Leausa is half of a duo of thieves who stole at least two vehicles on Wednesday, including the Dodge Ram 3500 pickup she totaled in the crashes and a second car her partner stole, Metro Capt. Roxanne Burke said.

The male suspect, who fled, was described as a heavy-set Hispanic man who stands a couple of inches above 6 feet, Burke said. He wore a white T-shirt and had on dirty work boots. He was in a stolen 2004 gray, four-door BMW with no license plates.

The series of events unfolded about 4:45 p.m. when the suspects met with people selling the BMW, Burke said.

Pretending he could not open the door after entering the car with the excuse of inspecting it, the male suspect took off, Burke said. He was followed by Leausa in the truck, which was stolen Wednesday morning, and the victims, who gave chase in a third vehicle, Burke said.

During the chase, the victims called 911, Burke said. Thirteen minutes later, a police helicopter located them and Leausa, she said.

As officers rushed to the truck, Leausa pulled into a parking lot on Sahara Avenue and Fort Apache Road, Burke said. It wasn’t immediately clear when the victims lost the BMW.

Officers in two police vehicles “posted up” at the parking lot to try to prevent the incident from escalating, Burke said. But Leausa went back on the run, accelerating and intentionally ramming one of the cruisers as she left the lot, injuring an officer, Burke said.

The injured officer was taken to UMC with injuries not deemed life threatening, while the officer in the second cruiser chased the truck, Burke said. Police chases in Las Vegas are only allowed when supervisors deem the incident could rise to the endangerment of life.

Leausa’s erratic driving throughout the ordeal and the fact that she purposely hit a police vehicle justified it, Burke said.

The officer chased the truck north on Fort Apache with lights flashing and sirens blaring, Burke said. But he lost the truck when the road shifted, and the next time he saw it, there was “dust and debris, and the accident had already happened” near Charleston Boulevard, Burke said.

Police said Thursday that the Ram left the north lanes and entered opposing traffic lanes.

Leausa slammed into a gold 2007 Saturn Aura, and when she lost control, she smashed into a red 2011 Toyota Camry, killing a Las Vegas woman, police said.

The woman in the Saturn was also treated at UMC with survivable injuries, Burke said. The woman in the Camry died at the scene, she said.

Traffic at Forth Apache was restricted in both directions into late Wednesday, police said.

Anyone with information on the whereabouts of the male suspect is asked to call police at 311 or 911. To remain anonymous, contact Crime Stoppers at 702-385-5555 or crimestoppersofnv.com.