Emmett McClendon never thought he would end up being lauded as a hero when he stopped at a Kmart earlier this week to buy Christmas gifts for needy children.

But when a woman at the Lansing store told him a man had a gun, instinct and nine years as a Chicago police officer kicked in, he said Tuesday.

Advertisement

McClendon, who was off duty and without a bulletproof vest Monday when the incident occurred, chased the gunman, who also was being pursued by a Kmart employee. He yelled, "Stop, Chicago police." The man turned and fired a shot, and the Kmart worker hit the floor. McClendon fired five rounds back.

"I thought for sure the Kmart employee was dead," McClendon said Tuesday. "When the guy fired his gun, the employee went down."

Advertisement

But the gunmanmissed, and the employee was unscathed. Randall David Wright, 40, whose last known address was in Flossmoor, died after one of McClendon's bullets hit his right side, according to the Lake County, Ind., coroner's office.

Wright was pronounced dead at St. Margaret Mercy Healthcare Center in Hammond at 2:40 p.m. Monday, less than a half-hour after he robbed an armored car guard at Kmart and stole his money and gun, police said. No one else in the Kmart, 17355 Torrence Ave., which was packed with holiday shoppers, was injured.

"I had a clean shot," McClendon said. "There was no one around when he was there."

On Tuesday, police colleagues at Chicago's Calumet District and Lansing detectives congratulated him for his quick response.

"It takes guts," said Chicago Officer Regine Perpignan. "Especially since he didn't have on a vest and he was off-duty."

Because there were no unclaimed cars in the parking lot, police said they assume Wright had an accomplice.

"He didn't take the bus to get there," Lansing Police Chief Daniel McDevitt said. "He probably had someone drive him."

McDevitt said police had no suspects but the investigation was continuing.

Advertisement

Police described Wright as a small-time criminal with a long history of retail theft and one felony conviction for possession of drugs with intent to sell.

But until Monday's robbery, none of his crimes had been violent, police said.

On Monday, Wright allegedly was waiting in the Kmart when a guard from United Armored Services made a pickup at the back of the store.

He pointed a gun at the guard, grabbed his moneybag and the gun from his holster and headed for the front door, police said. McClendon shot him before he could escape, and Wright collapsed in the parking lot. Police identified him through fingerprint records.

On Tuesday, McClendon shrugged off the praise of his colleagues with a sheepish smile. "I was just acting upon what I was trained to do," he said.