Tasheena Brooks discusses the Aug. 1, 2017, police-involved shooting that ended in the death of her 15-year-old son Ke-Monte Cobbs. (Suzanne Tennant / Post-Tribune )

A Gary police officer was justified this summer when he fatally shot a teen involved in an armed robbery of a Munster cellphone store and an attempted getaway that sparked a lengthy police chase involving multiple police forces, Lake County prosecutors have determined.

Fifteen-year-old Ke-Monte Cobbs died Aug. 2, the day after he suffered a single shot to the top of his head, according to an autopsy report from the Cook County medical examiner's office. Cobbs, according to a police report, had a semi-automatic handgun with an extended magazine in his hand and was running from police when the Gary officer shot him Aug. 1 outside an abandoned residence.

Advertisement

The Lake County prosecutor's office has determined that the Gary officer acted "in self-defense" of himself and fellow officers, records show. Cobbs' mother Tasheena Brooks, however, said she's still left with more questions than answers about her son's death.

Brooks said she wonders: How was he shot in the top of his head? Why did her son die when the people he was with were arrested? And what happened immediately before he was shot? She's gone to court seeking documents she hopes can provide additional answers.

Advertisement

"They recovered their assets from the robbery. I didn't recover my son," Brooks said. "That's not right."

Cobbs and three others were involved in robbing the Cellular Connection cellphone store on Ridge Road in Munster, police and federal prosecutors said. Police were called just after 5:45 p.m. Aug. 1 about the armed robbery at the wireless retailer.

A federal complaint filed against two adults in the case —21-year-olds Vondell Henry and Deshalone Davis — said two suspects came in the store with guns drawn and stole cellphones and cash. It was unclear whether Cobbs entered the store or stayed in the car.

Police pursued the group who fled in a gray Nissan Versa, reported stolen out of Ohio, to a parking lot off Hanley Street in Gary, police reports show. Henry, who was driving, surrendered as his passengers ran from the car, police said. Police caught Davis and a juvenile suspect "without incident," the reports show.

Cobbs, however, was shot during a subseqent foot chase, authorities said.

A Gary police report, which did not include an account from the officer who fired the fatal shot, as well as Griffith police reports and federal court records, offered the police account of what happened that evening.

After Cobbs fled on foot, the Gary K-9 officer who would later fire the fatal shot had his police dog with him and asked another officer "where he should deploy," according to a police report. Police spotted Cobbs and an officer "yelled for (the Gary officer) to let his canine partner chase him," according to the report.

A Griffith officer and the Gary K-9 officer tried to cut Cobbs off on either side of an abandoned residence on West 19th Place, the report said.

Advertisement

"Cobbs emerged ... with handgun in hand, observed (the Griffith officer) and immediately turned to continue his flight back towards (the Gary officer)," according to a Griffith report. "Moments later, shots had been fired."

An officer arrived after the shots and saw the Gary officer "pulling his canine off of the subject," police said.

"(The Gary officer) looked over at me and stated, 'He pulled a gun on me,'" a Griffith officer said in the report.

Police said Cobbs "was laying on his stomach" and officers said they saw "a black semi-automatic handgun with an extended magazine laying on the ground" under him, according to the reports.

Cobbs was taken to Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Ill., where he died Aug. 2. The Cook County medical examiner's office ruled his death a homicide.

A bullet entered an inch below the the top of Cobbs' head and lodged in his brain, according to his autopsy report. The bullet did not appear to be fired at close range, the report states.

Advertisement

He also had abrasions on his right arm, according to the report.

Brooks said she wonders why her son couldn't also have been arrested and not killed. She would have made sure he complied with any court orders, she said.

"I know what I raised. And I taught him to have respect for law enforcement," Brooks said.

The Lake County Sheriff's Department investigated the shooting, but has not released its findings.

The officer, a 12-year veteran with the Gary police department, was placed on administrative leave after the incident, but has since returned to full duty with the department following the prosecutor's office decision that it was in self-defense, Lt. Thomas Pawlak said.

Gary police did not respond to additional requests for comment on the shooting.

Advertisement

Henry and Davis were charged with Hobbs Act Robbery and brandishing a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence, according to federal court records. Davis pleaded guilty to both counts earlier this month and is scheduled to be sentenced in May, court records show, while Henry is expected to change his plea to guilty Thursday.

Charges are pending against a juvenile involved in the crime, according to the FBI.

Lake County court records show Brooks was appointed as the administrator of her son's estate to be able to file any wrong death claims. Her attorney, Robert Montgomery, said they're waiting to make a decision on any potential lawsuit until they're able to gather more information.

Brooks and Montgomery filed a petition in November for the agencies they believe were involved in the pursuit or shooting — Gary, Merrillville, Munster, Griffith and Hobart police and the Lake County Sheriff's Department — to preserve and produce any evidence they have from the incident, Lake County court records show.

"Everything should come to light," Montgomery said.

Montgomery's petition states that Cobbs "was shot and killed by a Gary police officer" and that these agencies "have materials and knowledge" of this.

Advertisement

In a reply submitted to the court in January, the City of Gary said it "is without sufficient knowledge to form a belief as to the truth of the allegations," such as whether their officer shot Cobbs and that they have relevant information about the case.

The agencies have until Monday to turn over their documents or provide reasons why they cannot be released, Judge Stephen Scheele said at a January hearing.

"Anytime a 15-year-old child is shot, our community screams for answers," Montgomery said.

As Brooks waits for more information, she's knocked on doors around where her son was shot in an effort to piece together the "last moments of his life," she said.

"How am I supposed to know what happened to my child?" Brooks said.

Brooks pointed to Gary Housing Authority cameras outside the apartments at Concord Village and wonders if they may have captured the shooting. The Post-Tribune requested the video in October, but the agency so far has not released it.

Advertisement

"If you feel you had a good shoot, show the world," Brooks said.

Brooks thinks her son must have been scared in his finals moments, she said.

Cobbs, a student at 21st Century Charter School, could be quiet, Brooks said, but he was "real talented" in boxing, baseball and basketball and had played sports since age 4.

Brooks said she doesn't know how her son ended up with the group he was with the night he was shot. She said she doesn't condone him being with them or what occurred.

"These guys, I know nothing about them," she said.

rejacobs@post-trib.com

Advertisement

Twitter @ruthyjacobs