ZANESVILLE - The investigation into an officer-involved shooting that killed a man on Saturday evening in New Straitsville could take several months, according to a spokesperson with the Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

The man shot by the auxiliary officer was identified as 24-year-old Timmy Wilson, according to Perry County Coroner Bradley Wilson. He had allegedly attempted to take the officer's weapon multiple times after physically assaulting the officer.

Wilson died from a single gunshot wound to the chest, the coroner stated.

He did not have a weapon, said Jill Del Greco, with BCI. A number of customers were in the store at the time and witness statements are consistent in describing that the officer was attacked.

At about 6 p.m. on Saturday, an employee of Ed's Carryout at 123 Main St., New Straitsville, made an emergency call to report that someone was acting erratically in the store, Del Greco said, whose agency is heading up the investigation.

Officer involved in shooting in New Straitsville

A New Straitsville officer responded and at least one shot was fired, which killed Wilson, Del Greco said. The officer was taken to an area hospital with injuries that were not considered life-threatening.

New Straitsville Police Chief Andrew Love expects the officer will be exonerated and be able to return to work.

"I have no doubt as a professional that my officer's actions were necessary," he said.

During the altercation between the officer and Wilson, the citizens in the store intervened to assist the officer, Love said.

"(The officer is) torn up about what he was forced to do," he said.

Before Saturday, the last time an officer-involved shooting occurred in New Straitsville was in the late 1800s, Love said. Back then, the officer was killed and the New Straitsville citizens tracked down the suspect and jailed him.

Auxiliary officers are trained just like an other officer in the state, Love said, and they often serve rural, outlying communities that might not have any police presence otherwise.

"Without the auxiliary, Perry County Sheriff's Office is pretty thin," he said.

The final autopsy report and toxicology could take months, Del Greco said.

It's typical for BCI to do investigations into officer-involved shootings, she said, as an independent agency. But BCI only investigates at the request of a law enforcement agency. In this case, both New Straitsville Police Department and Perry County Sheriff's Office requested that BCI do the investigation.

Love said it's standard for police departments in Ohio to ask BCI to conduct investigations involving officers to ensure that there is no bias.

ksnyder2@zanesvilletimesrecorder.com

740-450-6752

Twitter: @KL_Snyder