7:10 p.m. (SOUTH FORSYTH)

The situation is over. The 11-month-old girl has been transported to the hospital in an ambulance, and her father has taken his own life with a gun. Neither the extent of the baby's injuries nor how she was injured have been released by officials.

6:39 p.m.



Someone is being transported to Northside Hospital-Forsyth. It is unclear who it is or to what extent the person is injured.

Drop-off locations for seven students from Otwell Middle School were disrupted due to the neighborhood being blocked to any traffic, according to Jennifer Caracciolo, spokeswoman for Forsyth County Schools. The bus driver returned to Otwell, and a school resource officer helped coordinate with parents to get them picked up.

6:15 p.m.



A second SWAT unit from the Forsyth County Sheriff's Office has arrived to the scene, and deputies are attempting to make contact via phone to negotiate.

5:30 p.m.

Two neighbors said they saw law enforcement "lining the streets" and calling toward the house with a microphone to "come out with your hands up."

"We heard a loud bang, and then 20 minutes after that we saw the garage door open up," said Alex Lee, a resident a couple houses down from where the standoff is taking place.

4:32 p.m., Aug. 7

A man has barricaded himself and his 11-month-old daughter in his south Forsyth home after reportedly threatening his wife with a gun, authorities said.

- photo by Isabel Hughes The Forsyth County Sheriff's Office SWAT team was called to a residence on Carleen Court in the Vistas at Castleberry subdivision at 3:39 p.m. on Monday, Aug. 7 after the wife ran outside to a neighbor to call 911, according to Deputy Doug Rainwater, a spokesman for the sheriff's office.

There has been no contact yet with the man and no visual or audible confirmation the infant is inside the home, though she is not with the mother and authorities on scene "highly suspect" both are inside.

"We're just waiting on a search warrant and then we will make a tactical decision," Sheriff Ron Freeman said.

The woman told authorities she had to run outside to call 911 because her husband took her cell phone.

Deputies and the SWAT unit are trying to make contact with the man to negotiate a safe ending.

Neighbors are being asked to remain indoors, and at least one neighboring home has been evacuated.

Rainwater said there is no immediate danger to the public.



Forsyth County Schools buses are not dropping off students in the neighborhood, Rainwater said. More information about altered drop-off locations will be available soon.

Information gathered by staff reporter Isabel Hughes, who was reporting on the scene.

This story will be updated.