Officers were attempting to serve arrest warrant

GREAT FALLS (AP) - Two police officers shot and killed a Great Falls man Friday after he fired at them as they tried to serve an arrest warrant, Police Chief Bob Jones said.

Neither of the officers, Eric Baumann and Jesse Slaughter, was wounded. They were placed on administrative leave with pay.

"They were allowed to return home with their families," the chief said. "They are not going to work."

Authorities identified the man as Judd Edward Daniels, 31.

In accordance with state law, the shooting will be investigated by the Cascade County sheriff's office, and an autopsy will be conducted by the Lewis and Clark County coroner, Jones said.

Baumann and Slaughter had been investigating a telephoned report of a suspicious vehicle Friday morning. A short time later, a second call about the vehicle directed them to a house in another part of town, Jones said.

When the officers got there, they learned a man believed to be in the home had a warrant for his arrest.

"There was a physical confrontation" when the officers attempted to arrest Daniels in the house, Jones said. Daniels then slipped out of the officers' grasp by wiggling out of his jacket.

"The suspect got away and ran into the yard. There was another physical confrontation, and the suspect again fled. He ran across Fifth Avenue, and about mid-block pulled a weapon from his waistband and fired at our officers. The officers returned fire, and the suspect went down."

Sheriff John Strandell said Friday afternoon that Daniels had fired one shot from a small-caliber semiautomatic pistol. Strandell said the arrest warrant cited Daniels for three misdemeanor counts of contempt of court.

Court records show Daniels has been sentenced in the last four years for crimes that included partner assault and obstructing a peace officer.

"We have a great deal of compassion for our officers and what they are going through," the chief said. "It's unfortunate that our officers were put in the position of having to use deadly force. We also feel a great deal of compassion for the suspect-victim's family. We are very sorry this happened. Unfortunately, it did, and we are going to have to deal with it."

Baumann is a six-year veteran of the force and Slaughter has been with the department for 2 1/2 years.