A wrongful death lawsuit has been filed by the wife of a retired Kearny firefighter who died of a heart attack while handcuffed in the back seat of a Florham Park police car last year.

"This was an unprovoked act of road rage by defendant Diane Murphy and an unlawful reaction by defendant Police Officer Brian Ford," said attorney Gerald Krovatin, who is representing Eleanor G. Mulligan, the wife of former Kearny Fire Capt. Edwin Mulligan, 63, of Florham Park.The 27-year-veteran of the fire department died of a heart attack in the back seat of a Florham Park police car at a Florham Park mall on Sept. 18, 2006, exactly one year to the day before the complaint was filed in federal court, Krovatin said.

Edwin Mulligan was driving out of the lot when his car came close to Murphy's car, the complaint says. Murphy, described only as a Morris County resident in the complaint, became enraged and walked over to his car and the pair "engaged in a verbal exchange" before Murphy threw a cup of cola at him, the complaint says.

Murphy's attorney, A. John Blake, said Mulligan's autopsy revealed he died of natural causes and was suffering from hardening of the arteries, high blood pressure and diabetes.

"The idea that this man, from out of the blue, from a healthy state, dropped dead because a cup of cola was thrown at him, is totally absurd," Blake said. "It's an attempt to get money from a township. It's an unfortunate occurrence which unfortunately coincided with chronic health problems."

The complaint says Mulligan got out of his car and the pair continued exchanging words. When Ford arrived, he handcuffed Mulligan and put him in the police car unmonitored, the complaint says, adding that he suffered a heart attack and died. The complaint notes that Murphy has since pleaded guilty to assaulting Mulligan.

Blake said two witnesses say Mulligan pushed Murphy to the ground and that's why police were called. Murphy's attorney said the guilty plea is not relevant, is not admissible as evidence in any court, and "there is nothing that was done by her, that in any stretch of the imagination, was foreseeable that the man would die or receive any injury."

Blake said the officer "was smart enough" to turn on his video and audio recorder when he got to the scene and it shows the air condition in the car was on and "when a cop went back to speak to him, he was perfectly all right and did not utter one word of discomfort.

"I don't think that either one did anything wrong," Blake said of Murphy and Ford.

Acting Kearny Fire Chief Steven Dyl said he was shocked to hear of the circumstances of Mulligan's death.

"It was totally out of character," Dyle said yesterday. "He was a really nice guy, a real gentleman and a pleasure to work with."

Mulligan joined the Kearny Fire Department in April 1973 and retired in February 2000, Dyl said. He was last assigned to Engine 4 in South Kearny at Hackensack and Central avenues.

Florham Park Borough Attorney Joseph Bell did not return calls for comment.