— A Washington County detective Monday shot and killed a man who was to be questioned in connection with a reported sexual assault of a child.

The dead man, Joshua Adam Thomas, 38, of 12571 Leam Blvd. in Farmington, swung a crowbar at Detective Scott McAfee, who had gone to the home to arrest Thomas, according to the Washington County Sheriff’s Office.

Joshua Adam Thomas

Thomas’ single-family home is just west of U.S. 62 at Leam Boulevard’s intersection with Jim Devault Road.

The sheriff’s office placed McAfee on paid administrative leave Monday until a determination of whether he followed departmental procedures and state law.

Kelly Cantrell, a spokeswoman for the sheriff’s office, said Thomas was a suspect in a sexual assault case.

A sheriff’s office statement issued Monday afternoon said McAfee was at the home’s door and asked Thomas to come outside. Thomas said he needed to go back in to get something and slammed the door, even as McAfee told him to wait, the statement said. When McAfee knocked on the door again, Thomas reportedly opened the door and McAfee told him he was under arrest. Thomas raised a crowbar and swung it toward McAfee, the release said, and McAfee fired his handgun once. Central Emergency Medical Service pronounced Thomas dead inside his home.

AT A GLANCE Killed By Police Fatal shootings since 1999 involving Northwest Arkansas law enforcement include: Feb. 17, 1999 — Several Fayetteville police officers shot and killed Vernon Don Whiteside Jr., a 39-year-old homeless man, in a wooded area of south Fayetteville. Whiteside was in a fight at the Salvation Army and pointed a .38-caliber handgun at officers during a chase. The prosecutor ruled the officers were justified in the shooting.

Aug. 24, 1999 — An Arkansas State Police trooper and Madison County Sheriff's deputy shot and killed Charles G. Nevels, 37, at his residence in southern Madison County. Nevels, who was wanted in an earlier shooting, fired at the officers, striking the trooper in the arm. The officers were later recognized for their valor.

Sept. 16, 2000 — Rogers police officers shot and killed Terry Moon, 31, at Best Motors on 2410 S. Eighth St. in Rogers. The officers were cleared and returned to work.

Dec. 28, 2002 — Rogers police officers shot and killed Ray H. Crow, 77, at his home at 1317 W. Forrest Drive in Rogers. The officers were cleared and returned to work.

July 12, 2003 — A Fayetteville police officer shot and killed Ralph "Steven" Burke, 55, during a standoff in the Mount Olive community in eastern Washington County. Burke emerged from his house pointing a rifle at officers, according to the prosecutor, who cleared the officer.

Feb. 19, 2004 — Washington County Sheriff's Deputy Scott McAfee shot and killed Victor Barron, 59, near the Wheeler community west of Fayetteville after responding to a call of a suicidal woman. A prosecutor determined the shooting, which occurred when Barron attempted to shoot the deputy, was justified.

Jan. 19, 2005 — Three Fayetteville police officers shot and killed Benny Spears, 47, at his house in Fayetteville after the Fayetteville restaurant owner emerged with a shotgun. The prosecutor determined the officers’ actions were justified.

March 7, 2006 — Arkansas State Police Trooper Larry Norman shot and killed Joseph Erin Hamley, 21, along U.S. 412 near Tontitown as authorities searched for a Michigan fugitive. Norman pleaded guilty to misdemeanor negligent homicide and spent 54 days in jail after acknowledging he made a mistake in shooting Hamley.

Oct. 30, 2007 — A Fayetteville police officer shot and killed Taylor “Trent” Breeden, 25, inside a Fayetteville apartment where officers were executing a search warrant. Breeden pulled a gun and shot himself at nearly the same instant the officer fired. The prosecutor cleared the officer.

Dec. 3, 2008 — A Pea Ridge police officer shot and killed Ty H. Smith, 29, at his 511 McCulloch St. home. The officer was cleared and returned to work.

June 26, 2009 — A Fayetteville police officer fires at Ricky Ray Anderson, 41, who was stabbing Jill Lynn Ulmer, 26, inside her apartment. Anderson was not hit, but one shot struck Ulmer. Ulmer would have died from either the stabbing or the gunshot, the state medical examiner rules. Anderson received a life sentence for capital murder.

Oct. 1, 2009 — A Rogers police officer shot and killed Matthew Dague, 28, during a road stop at an apartment complex. Dague was the subject of a police search after firing a gun at another police officer. The officer stopped a vehicle Dague was in and Dague begin shooting at him. The officer returned fire. He was cleared and returned to work.

Dec. 2, 2009 — A Fayetteville Police detective, responding to a bank robbery, killed 29-year-old Matthew Anderson of Elkins in the drive-through of an Arvest Bank branch at Wedington Drive and Garland Avenue as Anderson smashed his car into another occupied car in an attempt to get away. A prosecutor cleared the detective.

Jan. 20, 2010 — A Bella Vista officer shot and killed James Patrick Ahern, 41, following a vehicle pursuit. Coleman “Duke” Brackney was fired and pleaded guilty to a manslaughter charge, a misdemeanor, in Benton County Circuit Court. He was sentenced to 30 days in jail and fined $1,000.

Oct. 4, 2010 — A Rogers police officer shot and killed Tony Chambers, 54, at his home, 1007 S. 26th St. Officers responded to a report Chambers was threatening suicide. He raised a firearm at an officer who fired multiple shots at Chambers who died at Mercy Medical Center. The officer was cleared to return to duty.

Aug. 1, 2011 — A Rogers police officer shot and killed 30-year-old Fallon Frederick at the Shell Superstop, 1845 S. Eighth St. The woman moved toward officers with a knife before the shooting, police said. The Benton County prosecutor, Van Stone, cleared three officers involved. Source: Staff Report

Deputies marked the shooting scene with yellow crime tape that stretched across the street, ending at a neighbor’s front yard. The property is in some disarray. A red truck and a black sedan were parked in Thomas’ driveway, just outside a tarp-covered garage that appeared to be falling apart. Next to the garage was a pile that included old tires, paint buckets, a fish aquarium and a child’s riding toy.

Fayetteville resident Hasani Moss said he was outside his mom’s house when he heard a single gunshot.

“I was on the phone and heard what I thought sounded like a gunshot,” he said. “Then I saw a dog running from Josh’s house. At first, I thought someone shot a firework at the dog. I really didn’t think anyone had been shot.”

Next-door neighbor James Shelley described Thomas as a “nice guy who kept to himself.”

Shelley said Thomas had acknowledged he had previously been “in trouble with the law,” but that he didn’t know the details of his past.

He said he believed Thomas lived there with another person and that he owned two adopted pit bulls.

“When I saw his driveway taped off, I thought maybe someone had been bitten by a dog,” he said. “I didn’t think it was that serious. When I found out that Josh was dead, it was a big shock.”

Shelley said he and his wife, Lauren Shelley, were both surprised to learn that Thomas was being investigated.

“That chills me down to the bones,” he said. “We never saw any kids over there.”

Cantrell said the sexual assault investigation is still open and no other information is being released about it.

Lauren Shelley said Thomas introduced himself to her last spring while they were both doing yard work.

“He seemed real nice and he kept his yard mowed,” she said. “He told me he rescues pit bulls. I guess that was his hobby.”

Cantrell said Thomas was arrested by the sheriff’s office in 2001. His previous arrest record includes criminal charges of aggravated assault and third-degree assault, along with other charges, but no other information about those charges was available after 5 p.m. Monday.

McAfee will remain on paid leave while Arkansas State Police investigate his actions to determine if he broke the law.

The Washington County Sheriff’s Office will conduct its own internal investigation to determine if McAfee violated department policy.

Cantrell said McAfee was hired by the sheriff’s department on March 16, 1995.

McAfee also shot and killed a man in 2004.

As McAfee and another deputy visited the home of Victor Barron of Wheeler on a welfare check, Barron reportedly pointed a gun at McAfee. A prosecutor found that McAfee fired to defend himself and there was no wrongdoing.