A bulletproof vest saved the life of a city cop Thursday after a gunman fired several shots at the officer, then killed himself after making a stand in his Brooklyn home, police said.

The Cypress Hills standoff unfolded on Ridgewood Ave. near Essex St. around 4:35 p.m., as officers responded to a call of an emotionally disturbed person barricaded inside a nearby building, sources said.

Advertisement

Cops and EMTs headed to the 29-year-old suspect's apartment after his mother called police, reporting him as emotionally disturbed — but unarmed and nonviolent, NYPD Commissioner James O'Neill said.

Heavily armed units arrive at the scene of the Cypress Hills shooting. (ROBERT STRIDIRON/ RHS NEWS)

An officer and medics entered the apartment and headed toward the rear bedroom, while a second cop circled around to a back door because the mom had warned police her son might try to slip out, O'Neill said.

Advertisement

"As the first officer approached the rear bedroom, the subject fired several shots, striking the officer several times," O'Neill said.

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 4 Screengrab from a video showing NYPD Officer Hart Nguyen exiting 149 Ridgewood Ave in Brooklyn NY after being shot by Andy Sookdeo on August 10, 2017. (Obtained by Daily News)

Officer Hart Nguyen, 30, a father of two who joined the NYPD in July 2015, was hit twice in his vest and once in his arm, and is expected to survive, sources said. Medics took the cop to Jamaica Hospital, where he was awake and talking, police said.

"He had a great attitude. He was even trying to make light of the situation," Mayor de Blasio said, speaking to reporters at the hospital Thursday night. "This young man was definitely saved by his vest."

Commissioner O'Neill holds the officers bullet proof vest as Mayor de Blasio looks on. (Sam Costanza/for New York Daily News)

Police, none of whom fired a shot, were able to get the suspect's mother out of the house and surrounded the building as state troopers and K9 units joined the stalemate.

When Emergency Services Unit officers entered the apartment later in the evening, they found the shooter, identified by sources as 29-year-old Andy Sookedo, had shot himself to death.

Personnel respond to the scene in Cypress Hills. (Ken Murray/New York Daily News)

Cops found two firearms in the home's rear bedroom, O'Neill said. A source said officers recovered a revolver and a semiautomatic pistol, and enough ammo to make a days-long stand.

Sookedo's relatives were beside themselves late Thursday as his body was taken from the house by the Medical Examiner.

Body of cop shooter Andy Sookdeo, 25, removed by the ME #Brooklyn

Sookdeo killed himself in a standoff

Cop is awake and alert pic.twitter.com/kG2k2AgTLX — Andy Mai (@MaiAndy) August 11, 2017

"I don't think he had any problems," said cousin David Bridgemohan, 36. "He has a nice BMW car, he has everything he needs, I don't know why he would do this."

Advertisement

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

The massive police response to the shooting took some neighbors by surprise.

Medical Examiner officials cart the shooter from the apartment after his suicide. (Ken Murray/New York Daily News)

"It was normal, then police just started arriving like crazy in less than a minute," said Mayborlin Barrios, 29, who lives a block away. "People started to run around to leave the park because they got scared."

Officials credited a new style of bulletproof vest with saving Nguyen's life.

The commissioner held up the officer's vest and showed it to reporters Thursday night.

"It's a small-caliber round, so you're not going to be able to see where the impact was, but I did see the blunt force trauma injuries on the officer's chest," O'Neill said. "This vest definitely saved his life."

The NYPD ordered new ballistic vests — which are lighter and have a ceramic chest plate designed to withstand knife thrusts and rifle shots — shortly after Officers Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos were shot and killed in their patrol car in December 2014.

Advertisement

With Catherina Gioino, ANDY MAI, THOMAS TRACY