BRIDGETON -- A gunshot to a man's shoulder that led to his death while in prison 10 years later has prompted the prosecutor's office to take another look at the more-than-a-decade-old police shooting.

And the results were the same, the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office announced Friday.

First Assistant Cumberland County Prosecutor Harold B. Shapiro said in a statement that the Bridgeton police officer who shot Hector Rodriguez in the shoulder during the early morning hours of May 8, 2005 was justified.

On the day of the shooting, Rodriguez, who was a suspect in a stabbing murder, was accused of striking an officer with a ceramic vase. The police officer then fired one shot which hit Rodriguez in his right shoulder.

Rodriguez survived the gunshot but was paralyzed from the waist down and said that he did not remember what happened to him. The officer who fired the shot suffered a black eye that was still visible four days later. Rodriguez later pleaded guilty to aggravated manslaughter and was sentenced in 2008 to serve 12 years in jail without the possibility of parole.

Rodriguez died Aug. 26, 2015 while serving his sentence in Southwoods State Prison. The prosecutor's office said the medical examiner determined the cause of death was the gunshot wound he sustained in 2005 in combination with other medical conditions and his death was changed to a homicide.

At the time of the shooting, a formal review was not conducted because there was no officer-involved shooting review process. Once Rodriguez's death was ruled a homicide, the Prosecutor's Office was called in to investigate. Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae had to recuse herself from the investigation because of a possible conflict of interest. Her spouse was working for a prison in which Rodriguez was being held, leaving Shapiro to lead the investigation.

The Prosecutor's Office said that "the facts are undisputed and that the officer acted in a manner consistent with the New Jersey Attorney General's 'Use of Force' Police and with legal justification. As such, the Prosecutor's Office has decided not to present this matter to the grand jury."

Chris Franklin can be reached at cfranklin@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @cfranklinnews. Find NJ.com on Facebook