This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

CHICAGO – One person was shot and killed and another person was arrested after a carjacking that led to a pursuit and police-involved shooting on the Bishop Ford.

Police said the incident started Tuesday afternoon around 2:20 p.m. with a carjacking in Hazel Crest, leading to a chase by Dolton police. The suspects jumped out of the car while on the Bishop Ford, near 130th.

“It was an elderly person who the vehicle was taken from at gunpoint. It’s my understanding both of the offenders had weapons. We did find a second weapon at our crime scene,” Robert M. Collins Jr., Dolton Police Chief, said.

Dolton police chased the stolen vehicle onto the Bishop Ford. That’s when semi-truck driver, Oscar Rubalcaba, said he was side swiped by the stolen vehicle.

“I saw the car next to the road, and that truck was driving very fast. He crashed the car first and then crashed into me,” he said.

Rubalcaba, who was hauling steel coils to a business near 122nd and Honore, pulled over and saw the men start running.

Police said a 17-year-old was shot and taken to the hospital. He was pronounced dead around 5:59 p.m., police said.

“The offender collapsed and dropped his gun at the scene. We rendered first aid to him, kept him comfortable until the ambulance got there. He was transported to Christ. Later on we learned that in surgery, he was pronounced dead at 5:59 p.m.,” the police chief said.

Police were searching for the second suspect, also 17, for about two hours before he has taken into custody. Police searched a wooded area next to the expressway near a set of train tracks.

Meanwhile, it was a miserable evening commute as the northbound lanes of the Bishop Ford remained closed for hours. Southbound traffic was horrible as drivers slowed down to check out the scene.



The South Shore line eastbound trains were also impacted Tuesday night. Two trains were held at the Millennium and Hegewisch stations for a few hours as this was all sorted out.

The northbound lanes of the Bishop Ford were shut down at 130th for six hours Tuesday evening.