USA TODAY NETWORK - Tennessee

A man fatally shot in a confrontation with a Cocke County sheriff's lieutenant Sunday night threatened the officer with a "large, machete-style knife" before the officer opened fire, authorities said.

Carmen Beau Rongione, 41, of Cosby, Tenn., died before he could be transported by LifeStar helicopter to a hospital, according to a news release Monday from Sheriff Armando Fontes.

Lt. Chris Gregg was following up on a tip about the possible whereabouts of Rongione - who was wanted on active warrants for criminal trespassing and failure to appear in court - when he spotted the man walking along the Middle Creek Road about 7:19 p.m., the release states.

Rongione ran across a creek and into a heavily wooded area as Gregg and his police dog gave chase.

"The suspect ran into thick foliage with briers and turned around facing the pursuing officer and his K-9 partner," Fontes states in the release. "The wanted suspect pulled a large, machete-style knife from a sheath on his right side, (and) threatened to kill the officer and K-9 officer.

"The suspect began to swing the large blade with the officer in very close proximity to the suspect. The officer pulled his service weapon, firing one shot, striking the suspect in the abdominal area."

Gregg suffered several scratches and minor injuries from the briers, but otherwise was not hurt.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is assisting local authorities' investigation of the circumstances surrounding the shooting, according to Fontes.

Rongione was convicted of sexual assault in 1993, and was classified as 'violent' on the state's sex offender registry. The registry identifies him as Carmen William Rongione.

He had a series of arrests in Cocke County within the past year on charges that included arson, aggravated burglary and reckless endangerment with a deadly weapon, according to Fontes. Rongione most recently was arrested July 2 by Newport police on a charge of theft of property under $500.

"This is a prime example of the dangers our officers face while protecting the residents of Cocke County," Fontes states in the release. "Our officers are forced at times to use deadly force against dangerous individuals who pose a threat of death or serious bodily injury to the officer or the general public.

"This is a bad situation and our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Rongione. We ask the general public to remember everyone involved in this situation in their thoughts and prayers. I am very thankful the officer and K-9 officer in this situation (were) not seriously injured or killed."