Watch the report from Dann Cuellar on Action News at 11 p.m. on Aug. 11, 2017.

NORTH PHILADELPHIA (WPVI) -- Police are investigating an officer-involved shooting in North Philadelphia that left one person dead.

It happened around 5 p.m. Friday along the 3100 block of Darien Street.

Police say they received a call from the suspect's own mother who reported that her son was trying to steal her car.

When officers arrived and approached the man, identified by family as 31-year-old Tyrease Carlyle, he allegedly tried to grab the officer's weapon while it was holstered.

A struggle ensued, and the officer managed to call for backup.

More police officers arrived on the scene, and commanded Carlyle to let go of the officer's gun.

"The male did comply initially. He let go of officer one's gun, but then he grabs officer two's gun and a struggle for that firearms ensued," said Police Spokesman Capt Sekou Kinebrew.

The gun discharged during the struggle, prompting other officers to fire at the suspect.

"It appears right now that all three officers discharged, striking the male multiple times about the left side of the body," said Capt. Kinebrew.

Carlyle was rushed to Temple University Hospital where he was pronounced dead.

His sister, Monica Carlyle, says her brother had mental issues and wonders why police could not have handled the matter another way.

"If he got mental issues, why would they just shoot him down like a dog like that? I mean, they trained to shoot, they should have disarmed him. He was already disabled, they could have shot him in his leg or anything," she said.

The matter is under investigation by the police shooting investigation team.

Sources say Carlyle had a long rap sheet, which includes domestic violence, guns and drugs.

This is the second police-involved shooting this week in North Philadelphia.

The other incident happened Monday afternoon on the 2200 block of North Fairhill Street when police say a suspect opened fire first on officers. That man, Jose Gonzales, is facing charges of assault, weapons offenses, and attempting to murder police officers.

----------

Send a breaking news alert

Report a correction or typo

Learn more about the 6abc apps