Complications have claimed the life of the woman left in a nearly vegetative state the vehicle she rode in was struck by a drunk, off-duty Jersey City police officer in a Pulaski Skyway crash that claimed the life of her 2-year-old son, officials confirmed today.

Ruth Zelaya

, 40, of Jersey City and San Pedro Sula, Honduras, died on March 24 as a result of "complications from the motor vehicle collision," said Hudson County Assistant Prosecutor Michael D'Andrea this morning.

Zelaya's death is not expected to result in additional charges against former Jersey City Police Officer

Kevin Freibott

, 42, of Red Bank, who is serving an 11-year sentence for the Jan. 23, 2007 crash that killed young Jose Carlos Zelaya.

Freibott pleaded guilty to vehicular homicide,

assault by auto and drunk driving in a plea deal which included language saying the "state agrees that the plea resolves all charges from the incident and will not pursue any additional charges in the event Ruth Zelaya succumbs to her injuries..."

"Certainly my thoughts and prayers are with the Zelaya family and I think Mr. Freibott is very fortunate that we had the foresight when we negotiated this plea on his behalf to make sure the agreement protected him in the event that Mrs. Zelaya was to succumb to her injuries," said Freibott's attorney, John Young, of the Jersey City firm of Willis and Young.

In January 2008 Freibott was sentenced to seven years for vehicular homicide, 4 years for assault by auto, and 30 days for drunk driving. If the former officer serves his entire sentence he will be released on May 11, 2016, but he becomes eligible for parole on May 13, 2014, according to state corrections records.

On the day of the crash Ruth Zelaya and her son were in the back seat of a Pontiac Grand Prix; her husband, Carlos Zelaya, was the front seat passenger, and her brother, Raul Posas-Penada of Jersey City, was driving.

Freibott's speeding Jeep Cherokee slammed into the back of the Grand Prix - hitting it with so much force that his SUV went over the car, flipped onto it's roof and came to rest some distance ahead of the car. Freibott's blood-alcohol level was more than three times the legal limit.

Little Jose Carlo suffered severe head trauma and died a few days later. Ruth Zelaya had been semi-comatose spent the time since the crash in various hospitals and rehabilitation centers contending with numerous complications of her injuries.

Freibott was hired by Jersey City in December 2005 as a transfer from another police department, despite a record including a previous DWI, seven car accidents, seven moving violations and three license suspensions. He is a cousin of Jersey City Mayor Jerramiah Healy.

The Zelaya family is being represented in a civil suit by attorney Sam Davis who also sued Madison Square Garden for $18 million, alleging Freibott was served alcohol at the arena prior to the crash even though the former officer was already intoxicated.

"You are not to make a sale to a intoxicated individual" under New York state law, said Davis at the time. The lawyer, who could not be reached today, accused the Garden of giving Freibott enough beers to "stop a Clydesdale." It's not clear how Ruth Zelaya's death will affect the suits.

Ruth Zelaya and her son had come from Honduras to the United States with her husband who is an airline worker and was receiving training at Newark Liberty International Airport at the time of the fatal crash.

Carlos Zelaya could not be reached for comment today. It's not clear if he is in the United States or if he has returned to Honduras.