TRENTON -- Authorities have revealed that the accident which killed one man and injured two others on Prospect Street Tuesday evening was preceded by a police chase involving one of the autos that crashed. (See earlier report)

Killed was a 20-year-old Trenton man whose name is being withheld by authorities at this time because his family has not yet been notified of his death.

Authorities said the dead man was riding as a passenger in a stolen car being driven by Marvin D. Merriel, 20, of Trenton.

Merriel, whose injuries were described as minor, was arrested and charged with more than a dozen criminal and motor vehicle offenses, including aggravated manslaughter, eluding police, resisting arrest and unlawful possession of a handgun, authorities said.

Authorities said Merriel was found carrying a .22-caliber handgun after the crash.

Sgt. Pedro Medina, a city police spokesman, said the accident occurred shortly before 4:30 p.m. in the 800 block of Prospect Street, near Pennington Avenue, when the four-door car being driven westbound by Merriel crossed into the eastbound lane and collided with the oncoming sport utility vehicle being driven by James Bainbridge, 44, of Princeton.

Minutes earlier, Officers Matthew Bledsoe and Jonathan Woodhead spotted the car near Oakland Street and Parkside Avenue and noticed that the driver -- Merriel -- was not wearing a seat belt and "became noticeably nervous and began to slouch down in his seat" when he saw the officers' marked patrol car, Medina said.

He said a computer check by the officers revealed the car had been reported stolen from Hamilton on Jan. 25.

When the officers turned on their warning lights and siren in an attempt to pull over the car, Merriel allegedly accelerated and led officers on a chase, Medina said.

During the chase, Merriel allegedly drove in a "very reckless manner by going through several red lights," Medina said. The chase made its way onto Prospect Street and, after crossing over Pennington Avenue, ended with the collision with Bainbridge's SUV, Medina said.

The stolen car, its entire passenger's side caved in, came to rest against a pickup truck parked at the curb, while the SUV, its front end smashed, came to a halt at an angle atop the road's yellow center line.

Emergency medical personnel, finding the car's 20-year-old passenger "heavily entrapped" inside the mangled wreckage, called for help from city firefighters to free him.

While firefighters worked to free the passenger, medical crews worked to save his life.

"I heard a large crash, like cars hitting or something," said one nearby resident, who declined to give her name. Going to her front door, she saw the wreckage in the street. "One person was stuck in the car that they had to pry out. They were saying to him, 'Stay with us! Stay with us!'"

After being freed, the 20-year-old passenger was rushed to nearby Capital Health System at Mercer hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

Merriel and Bainbridge -- who suffered minor injuries as well -- were transported to Capital Health System at Fuld hospital by ambulance crews. As he was wheeled away on a stretcher, Merriel was wearing handcuffs and had a police escort.



Staff Writers Paul Szaniawski and Kevin Shea contributed to this report.

Click here to download, in PDF format, the news release about the accident issued by Trenton police

Contact Michael Ratcliffe