But seconds before a pair of veteran Portage police officers tried to handcuff Michael E. Duncan II, he bolted from them, reached for his waistband and began firing at the officers and a police canine, police said.

None of the shots connected, but both officers apparently returned fire, police said. One round struck Duncan in the head, killing him.

"Mr. Duncan made his choice and put us in the position we were in," said Portage Police Cpl. John Ryan.

"Our officers did what they were trained to do, to protect themselves. The last thing a police officer wants to do is shoot someone. It was Mr. Duncan's actions that led to what happened."

The shooting, which occurred at 2 a.m. Thursday at the duplex home construction site just south of U.S. 20 and Clem Road, is being investigated by Indiana State Police, an agency independent of the Portage police.

Police said they recovered a handgun from the 20-year-old Duncan, who had addresses in Portage and South Haven. The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms is following a lead about how Duncan, who had been convicted of a felony drug charge, got the gun.

Police also are trying to determine whether the recovered gun is the weapon used Sunday to murder a man at the Economy Inn of America in Merrillville. A warrant was issued earlier this week charging Duncan with that murder.

Police also were collecting bullet casings at the scene to determine how many shots were fired in the shootout. Porter County Coroner Roger Kleist said it appears Duncan and the officers were about 40 feet apart during the shootout.

It wasn't immediately clear which officer's bullet struck Duncan, but both officers have been offered counseling and as much paid time off as they need.

Duncan's downward spiral

The entire confrontation with Duncan lasted only three minutes, but trouble had been brewing in his life for awhile.

Duncan, convicted of possession of cocaine, was placed on home detention on Feb. 23. He was supposed to be confined to his father's Portage home for six months.

But on April 6, he skipped out of home detention and a felony escape warrant was issued for his arrest. A family member told The Times that Duncan fled because he was informed he failed a drug test and the authorities wanted him.

Steve Meyer of Adult Probation confirmed Duncan was violating his home detention. Meyer said he believes his office got word to Duncan that he needed to meet with his probation officer and offer an explanation. Most people confronted with such a request don't flee, but rather try to work something out, Meyer said.

Porter County Crime Stoppers named him Warrant of the Week a week after his escape, offering a reward of up to $1,000 for his capture.

Duncan wound up at Economy Inn on Sunday. There, he got into a dispute with his girlfriend, 19-year-old Christina Pierce of Griffith, police said.

Another person in their motel room, Nicholas C. Benthal, 23, of Ripley, Tenn., intervened and was shot to death by Duncan, according to Merrillville police. Duncan, who police said fled the scene, was charged with murder Tuesday and the manhunt heated up.

Police in the small community of Burns Harbor, located east of Portage, heard from a "reliable reportee" that Duncan was in the area of U.S. 20 and Ind. 149. Twice -- at 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. Tuesday -- Burns Harbor responded to those tips. And twice Duncan couldn't be found, although during the earlier check they found some of his personal effects.

Burns Harbor Police Sgt. Jerry Price said his department passed along to other agencies' information that Duncan was driving a smaller red mid-1980s Chrysler with a left front fender and driver's door that had been painted with primer.

More than 24 hours passed. Then, minutes before 2 a.m. Thursday, a Portage officer checked on a suspicious vehicle in the construction area off of U.S. 20 and Clem Road. The officer, who was familiar with the Duncan case, believed he was dealing with Duncan.

The officer, with his canine partner by his side, ordered Duncan out at gunpoint, police said. A backup officer arrived and one of the officers began a pat-down search to check Duncan for weapons. That, police said, is when Duncan fled and the shootout began.

The site of the shooting is a former trailer park, but duplex/townhome dwellings are being built there. The location is near Gina Street, one of the places Duncan recently called home.

Kleist said Duncan appears to have died of a single gunshot wound to the head. An autopsy was being arranged in South Bend, and toxicology tests were ordered to determine if Duncan was on drugs or alcohol. Toxicology tests take 10 business days to complete.

Portage police, Indiana State Police and Porter County Sheriff's Department evidence technicians spent several hours at the scene investigating and gathering evidence. Ryan said there was no timetable for when the investigation would be completed.

An unfortunate end

"We're sad it came to that type of result," Price said of the shooting. "We'd much rather he gave himself up."

But, Ryan said, once Duncan fired the first shot, he sealed his own fate. Ryan said the fact the officers survived and hit their mark is a result of the night training and high-pressure training officers undergo.

"Our officers shoot four mandated shoots a year, including two combat shoots -- shooting on the move," Ryan said. "We do train for situations like this."

Despite this shootout and the one a few months ago in Valparaiso that ended with the suspect being badly injured, Ryan doesn't see the public as lawless.

"I think most citizens still have respect for the police," he said. "There's that small percentage that have no regard for us and will do what they can to get away. There's that small percentage out there that doesn't care."

Meyer, a 20-year veteran of the Adult Probation Department, said the recent shootings are indicative of a disturbing trend he's noticed.

"Some of the kids are fearless, simply fearless," Meyer said. "I don't know where it comes from."

Meyer said the use of hard drugs at an earlier age, combined with an attitude that life is not precious, is fueling this volatile situation.

"He (Duncan) is like a lot of the offenders we have -- not much education a drug problem," Meyer said.

Ryan said indications point to the police shooting being justified.

"Mr. Duncan initiated the action by fleeing ... and the officers didn't fire until fired upon," Ryan said.

"They knew (of the allegation that) Mr. Duncan had already murdered somebody. The officers not only had to protect themselves, but also the public."

Because a life was taken, the shooting counts as the first homicide of the year in Porter County. Two other deaths, however, are awaiting a ruling. In March, a Hammond woman who was assaulted several months earlier in Hammond died of her injuries at a hospice center in Valparaiso. That may count against Porter County's homicide statistics.

In April, a 14-month-old baby from Gary stopped breathing in the back seat of the parents' car in Portage. It is not necessarily expected to be ruled a homicide, but the case remains pending.

Ken Kosky can be reached at kkosky@howpubs.com or (219) 462-5151, Ext. 354.