A naked stabbing suspect was killed and a female police officer wounded in South Camden this morning in a hail of 18 bullets fired from police-issued guns.

The shootout began shortly before 8 a.m., when police were called to the home of Tracy Morton for a report of a stabbing. According to police, Tracy Morton's 19-year-old nephew, Lamont Morton, had stabbed the father of one of her children, William Custis, in the shoulder with a steak knife during a fight.

When police arrived, they found Lamont Morton naked, holding a knife and wandering the neighborhood, said Camden County Prosecutor's Office spokesman Jason Laughlin.

Authorities said the female officer confronted Morton and fired her weapon at him when he charged toward her.

Morton and the female officer -- a 15-year department veteran -- then got into a physical altercation and he was somehow able to get control of her weapon, though it was unclear whether he fired it. A second officer on the scene then shot Morton several times, killing him, and possibly wounding the female officer.

In all, 18 bullets were fired -- nine from each police weapon, authorities said. Police found all the bullets, including one that ended up on the street a half-block away.

Authorities are looking into whether the patrolwoman was wounded by a fellow officer, the stabbing suspect, or both. She was listed in serious but stable condition at Cooper Unniversity Hospital this afternoon.

Seven bullets struck Morton.

The officer who fired the final shots at him was placed on administrative leave with pay, a standard procedure whenever an officer is involved in a shooting. Four bullets struck the female officer, a 45-year-old mother of three. One grazed her forehead, two hit her right shoulder and one her left forearm. Custis, the man who was stabbed, was treated at the same hospital and released.

The patrolwoman was the first police officer shot in the line of duty in more than a year in Camden, a city that consistently ranks as one of the most dangerous in the nation.

Ottenberg said it could take his office weeks or months to sort out exactly what happened and whether police followed the proper protocol, although he said it appears "the officer acted appropriately under the circumstances."