newark-police-car.JPG

A state appeals court today upheld previous court rulings dismissing claims made by the widow of a mentally ill man who was shot and killed by Newark police in July 2008.

(Frances Micklow/The Star-Ledger)

NEWARK — It only took 20 seconds.

After responding to a call about a mentally ill person in a basement and possibly armed with a knife in July 2008, two Newark police officers stood at the top of the basement stairs and heard Francisco Taveras yelling in Spanish, “I’m going to kill the police,” court papers say.

Suddenly, Taveras – more than six feet tall and weighing 275 pounds – was at the bottom of the stairwell with a machete in his hand, court papers say.

Taveras began climbing the steps, ignoring the officers’ commands to drop the weapon, court papers say. When Taveras was within five feet of the officers, one of them shot him several times, court papers say.

Taveras fell to the bottom of the stairs and ultimately died from his injuries.

His widow said police used excessive force, but a state appeals court today ruled the officers acted reasonably in what unfolded over a matter of seconds.

“The critical events occurred within a matter of seconds, and the officers were required to make split-second decisions to protect themselves, the owner of the building, and others against the decedent,” the decision states.

The appellate judges upheld previous court rulings that dismissed the claims made by Olga Cabrera, Taveras' widow and the administrator of his estate, in her lawsuit against Newark and Officer James Stewart and Sgt. Fernando Ramirez.

But Michael Orozco, an attorney representing Cabrera, argued that Taveras’ death could have been easily avoided.

Orozco questioned whether it was necessary for the officers to open the basement door in the first place, and said they could have waited for the arrival of a special unit trained in dealing with mentally ill individuals.

“There’s a lot of things that they could have done,” Orozco said today in a phone interview. “Could that entire situation have been avoided had they been properly trained and had they better evaluated the situation?”

The series of events began around 2 p.m. on July 9, 2008, when Newark police received a call about a mentally ill individual who was “acting out” in the basement of a building and might be armed with a knife, the decision states.

When Stewart arrived at the scene, the owner of the building told him Taveras had cut him with a knife, the decision states. After Ramirez arrived, the owner led the officers to a locked basement door, the decision states.

The officers heard Taveras repeatedly yelling in Spanish, “I’m going to kill the police,” the decision states.

Stewart requested the assistance of the “Emergency Service Unit” – which responds to situations involving emotionally disturbed individuals – but the unit was on another assignment and not available at the time, the decision states.

Even if the unit had been available, Ramirez said it would not have responded until after the officers had assessed the situation, the decision states.

The officers decided to assess the situation, and the owner unlocked the door to the stairwell leading to the dark basement, the decision states.

Ramirez shined his flashlight over Stewart’s shoulder to illuminate the stairwell as the officers stood at the top of the stairs, the decision states. The officers heard Taveras yelling, but could not see him, the decision states.

Taveras then appeared at the bottom of the stairs with the machete tied to his hand with a cloth, and began advancing up the stairwell, the decision states.

Stewart yelled in English and Ramirez yelled in Spanish, ordering Taveras to drop the weapon, but he did not comply, the decision states. Ramirez later said Taveras was raising the machete as he ascended the stairwell and he was taking “monster steps,” the decision states.

When Taveras was within five feet of the officers, Stewart shot him several times, the decision states.

“Beginning when the officers opened the door to the basement and ending with the shooting, the entire incident lasted only twenty seconds,” the decision states.

In her lawsuit, Cabrera argued that the officers used excessive force and that, when Taveras refused to drop the machete, the officers should have closed and locked the door to the basement, according to the decision.

To explain why the officers did not close and lock the basement door when Taveras began to climb the stairs, Ramirez “stated that, due to his size, the decedent ‘would have pushed that door and God forbid if something wouldhave happened to us because he was not only a big individual, but he was armed and he was violent and it was already proven before we got there when he cut the owner on the arm,’” the decision states.

The appellate panel agreed with Superior Court Judge Carolyn Wright’s previous findings that the officers’ actions were “objectively reasonable” and they were entitled to “qualified immunity.”

“We discern no basis on this record to second-guess their actions,” the decision states.

Bill Wichert may be reached at bwichert@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @BillWichertNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.