WILLINGBORO -- The Trenton man who fatally shot himself Friday kidnapped and threatened a former girlfriend beforehand, Burlington County authorities revealed on Wednesday.

Prior to fatally shooting himself in the head, James Isaac Rittenburg, 36, of the 300 block of Walnut Avenue, Trenton, drove to the Ruby Tuesday at Route 130 and Levitt Parkway in Willlingboro about 10:30 p.m. Friday to meet the ex-girlfriend, who was a restaurant patron at the time, according to the county prosecutor's office.

The woman, whose name was withheld by authorities, agreed to leave the restaurant with Rittenburg and got into his car, but then Rittenburg allegedly pulled out a gun and drove away with the woman in the car against her will.

Rittenburg drove north on Route 130 toward Florence. During the drive, Rittenburg "continued to point the weapon at the victim and expressed suicidal thoughts and appeared despondent and emotionally distraught," according to a news release from the prosecutor's office.The woman eventually convinced Rittenburg to return to the restaurant. When they arrived back there, the woman ran from the car and into the restaurant, where she called 911 and told police that Rittenburg had driven around to the back of the restaurant.



At about 11:10 p.m., Willingboro police arrived and spotted Rittenburg near a trash bin.



As officers approached, Rittenburg "discharged his weapon one time, which was later determined to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head. Willingboro officers returned fire, striking the suspect. However, the Burlington County Medical Examiner's Office determined that the shots fired by the Willingboro police were not fatal," the prosecutor's office said.



A 1989 graduate of Trenton Central High School, Rittenburg served in the U.S. Army and was honorably discharged in 1993 after serving in Operation Desert Storm, according to his obituary. His survivors include two sons and three daughters.



The prosecutor's office said their investigation was continuing.

Contact Michael Ratcliffe