MAYS LANDING – An Egg Harbor City man’s death while in police custody in October was determined by an Atlantic County grand jury to be a result of “excited delirium” and not police misconduct.

Charles Arroyo, 31, of Buffalo Avenue in Egg Harbor City, suffered a fatal seizure on Oct. 18 after fighting with police officers and resisting arrest.

Police received a late-night call from Arroyo’s sister, Betsy, who was concerned for her brother and mother, Isabel, at a resident on the 400 block of Havana Avenue in Egg Harbor City.

When police responded, they found Arroyo pinning his mother to her bed by holding her wrists and wrapping his legs around her legs, according to First Assistant Prosecutor Murray Talasnik, who presented the case to the grand jury.

Police attempted to pull Arroyo off his mother when he began choking her, but Arroyo resisted and was pepper-sprayed. During the struggle, Arroyo kicked Police Officer David Aldridge in the head, according to the Prosecutor’s office, causing the officer to be hospitalized for several days.

Arroyo then attempted to take Patrolman Dylan Hutton’s gun, the prosecutor’s office said, but Hutton struck Arroyo in the face to prevent it.

After police were eventually able to handcuff Arroyo and put him in an ambulance to be taken for psychiatric care. While in the ambulance, Arroyo suffered a seizure and stopped breathing. Emergency workers were unsuccessful resuscitating him.

Atlantic County Medical Examiner Dr. Hydow Park said Arroyo suffered minor abrasions on his face and wrist but those injuries were not life threatening. The autopsy determined Arroyo died from sudden cardiac arrest associated with an acute excited state.

Talasnik said this cause of death, also known as “excited delirium,” resulted from Arroyo’s underlying schizophrenia and his “continued violent resistance” to being arrested.

The Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office Major Crimes Unit, under the supervision of Lt. Michael Corrado, investigated the incident.

The grand jury panel, which met on May 28 and June 4, determined that the police officers made a lawful arrest and that none of the officers used excessive force.