The Hudson County Prosecutor's Office released information today about two eyewitness accounts of Sunday's fatal shooting of an armed man by police during a traffic stop.

"The statements corroborate the version given by the officers at the scene, but the investigation is ongoing," Hudson County Prosecutor Edward DeFazio said.

The statements do not answer the question of whether Markieth Singleton, 25, was holding or pointing the gun when Officer Joseph Cossolini opened fire.

The officers reported that Singleton refused to obey their orders to stop moving, "and if the person who has a gun continues to move, they do so at substantial risk," DeFazio said.

Singleton was one of four men in a Mercedez SUV that was pulled over at Kennedy Boulevard and Greenville Avenue at 1:41 a.m. because it matched the description of a vehicle used in a robbery, officials said. It turned out not to be the car used in the robbery.

The officers said Singleton brandished the gun and was shot when he refused orders to stop moving, DeFazio said.

On Monday one of the passengers told The Jersey Journal that Singleton was reaching for drugs to hand them over the officers when the gun he was carrying came into view. Singleton never held or pointed the gun, said the witness, who asked not to be named.

No one in the car was charged.

Today, DeFazio said a woman living near the site of the shooting heard shouts of "Gun! Gun!" and from her window saw an officer pointing an object and heard gunshots.

She said at that point she stepped away from the window to tell others what was happening and when she returned she saw Singleton getting medical attention.

Another witness, Edith Collazo, told The Jersey Journal she saw an officer kicking one of the men from the SUV but DeFazio said she told homicide detectives that she saw no such thing.

Police found two spent shells in the SUV but they think there were three rounds fired by the officer, DeFazio said, adding that Singleton was hit in the side.

Collazo said she was in her home when she heard three gunshots and went to a window, where she could see the police car parked behind the SUV, DeFazio said. She said she heard loud voices and saw a man on the ground with a police officer on top of him trying to handcuff him, DeFazio said.

She said the man was saying "I didn't do anything."

In 2001 and again in 2005 Singleton, was arrested in Jersey City for weapons offenses involving a handgun, and he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to three years in prison in each instance, DeFazio said. In May 2002, he pleaded guilty to drug possession and got three years, DeFazio said. Singleton had a tattoo on his chest that read "100 Gangsta."

At the Jersey City Police Department's valor awards ceremony in June, Cossolini was named Police Director's Officer of the Year and he was also awarded the Combat Cross. He transferred to the Jersey City Police Department from the Scotch Plains Police Department in October 2005 in a process known as a "lateral transfer."

Anyone with information on the shooting is asked to call the Hudson County Prosecutor's Office's Homicide Squad at (201) 915-1345.