The mother of a 10-year-old boy who died last week when the car they were riding in was struck by a stolen vehicle has also succumbed to her injuries.

Joselin Breton, 34, of Newark, was taken off of life support by her family Friday at University Hospital and was pronounced dead at 3:45 p.m., according to Paul Loriquet, a spokesman for the Essex County Prosecutor's Office.

Breton's son Anevdy Breton was taken off of life support Wednesday.

Neighbors and friends believe the mother and son were heading to their home a few blocks away after visiting Breton's mother on Roseville Avenue in Newark when their 2001 Toyota Corolla was struck by an Acura at 11 p.m. last Tuesday at Orange and Myrtle streets. Breton and her son were thrown from the vehicle, according to authorities.

The 2006 Acura, which was sto len out of Clifton, was being chased by East Orange police just 15 minutes before it struck Breton's vehicle. East Orange Police Chief Ronald Borgo said his officers observed the Acura and a black BMW, which was stolen from Edison, speeding and driving recklessly through East Orange.

Borgo said the officers cut off the chase at the Newark border. Newark police say they did not chase either vehicle involved in the incident.

"Even though police called off the chase, they continued to speed," Loriquet said of the Acu ra's driver.

At about 11 p.m., the Acura collided with the car carrying Breton and her son. Of the three people in the Acura, one escaped, another was captured after a brief chase and a third was trapped in the vehicle.

Chad Pamplin, 19, and Eugene Reaves, 24, both of East Orange, were charged with receiving stolen property and are still in custody. Loriquet said authorities are considering upgrading charges. A third suspect remains at-large as do the unknown people in the BMW.

A wake will be held for Breton and her son on Friday from 3 to 9 p.m. at Alvarez Funeral Home at 240 Mt. Prospect Ave. in Newark. The funeral will be held at 9 a.m. Saturday at St. Rosa of Lima Church, 11 Gray St., Newark.

Police are asking anyone with information to call the Essex County Prosecutor's Office at 1 (877) TIPS-4-EC.