Neighbors and friends of Mr. Nixon placed votive candles in his memory inside the lobby of the 17-story building where he lived. One of the friends, Lisa King, 30, questioned whether Mr. Nixon was only shooting in the air. ''They should know what's going on in the streets,'' she said of the police.

Mr. Nixon had been charged in 1999 with shooting at an officer, according to the police. In that case, he was shot in the shoulder by the officer and was convicted of criminal possession of a weapon, for which he served three years in prison.

Several minutes after the Seth Low shooting, police officers patrolling inside a nearby brick apartment building on Thatford Avenue spotted four men outside shooting guns in the air, the police said. The officers traded fire with the men, who fled, leaving behind five weapons. The police said it was unclear whether any of the men had been hit.

The third shooting occurred at 3:22 a.m. outside Lyn-Pete's Sports Club at 92 Livonia Avenue, where people were lined up to join a New Year's party. Police officials said that Anthony Reid, 21, got in a dispute with other patrons of the bar and chased them into the street, shooting at them as they fled in a white car. Three officers responded after hearing the shots and traded fire with Mr. Reid, who was hit four times in his chest and legs and was pronounced dead at the scene, according to the police and the medical examiner's office.

During the shooting, two men who were waiting to get into the club were struck in the legs, according to the police. The victims were taken to Brookdale, where they were listed in stable condition. Investigators have not determined who fired those shots or whether anyone in the white car had been hit.

Overall crime fell by 5 percent last year in the 73rd Precinct, and the number of homicides dropped to 16, from 26. Nevertheless, the precinct, which is one of Brooklyn's smallest in geographic size, remained one of the more violent in the city. Shootings, for example, rose by 17 percent, to 108, according to police statistics.