LIVERMORE — Authorities have identified the armed man police officers fatally shot Wednesday night following a standoff as James Terry Midkiff, 54.

Livermore police also identified the four officers involved in the shooting as Matthew Williams and Daniel Masingale, both five-year veterans with the department; Matthew Ishmael, who has been on the force for seven years; and Alejandro Gutierrez, who has worked for the department for three years. The officers are on paid administrative leave.

Around 8:50 p.m., Wednesday, residents at the Sun Valley Mobile Home Park reported that Midkiff was outside behaving strangely and threatening to fight people, according to Livermore police. Midkiff was holding a rifle when he confronted the first officer to arrive at the scene in the 1300 block of Via Deste, police said.

A member of the department’s crisis negotiation team tried for more than two hours to reach a peaceful resolution with Midkiff, who had retreated inside a mobile home. During negotiatons with Midkiff, officers heard several gunshots come from inside the residence, police said.

Neighbor Tom Browning said Thursday he first heard a gunshot around 8:30 p.m. and not too long after, police and SWAT armed with shields and rifles arrived.

Browning said negotiators repeatedly told Midkiff they wanted to help him and encouraged him to come out of the mobile home. At one point, they even had one of Midkiff’s relatives on the phone.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the East Bay and beyond.

At around 10:50 p.m., officers saw smoke and fire inside the home and called firefighters to the scene. Midkiff emerged from the mobile home holding a shotgun. Officers tried unsuccessfully to disarm him using a non-lethal weapon, police said. When Midkiff pointed the shotgun at police, the four officers fired at him, police said. Midkiff was pronounced dead at the scene.

Livermore police and the Alameda County District Attorney’s Office are investigating the shooting, along with the Alameda County Arson Task Force.

Staff writers Rick Hurd and Angela Ruggiero contributed to this report.