A cop blew away a 17-year- old who was holding a realistic-looking toy gun to the head of an officer posing as a fast-food deliveryman in a Harlem robbery sting yesterday, cops said.

Barely four hours later, police shot and killed a 35-year-old man driving a stolen van in Brooklyn.

The dead man – a serial auto thief on parole for running down a cop and breaking his neck – became the fourth person fatally shot by cops in two days.

In the Harlem violence, Allen Newsome, was killed after he put his toy 9mm gun to a detective’s head in an apartment building at 601 W. 148th St., police said.

The detective and another officer had been sent to the building in an investigation of a series of muggings of deliverymen from the nearby Wimpy’s Restaurant.

A cook told The Post that callers had been ordering burgers and asking the restaurant to send change for $50. Each time, armed men took off with the cash.

“They hit us three times,” said the cook, Luis Verdejo. “This time, they wanted six hamburgers with soda.”

But instead of the usual deliveryman, a cop wearing an apron and hat served up the order in a paper bag – that also contained his service weapon.

On a third floor landing, Newsome allegedly shoved his “gun” into the “deliveryman’s” face, cops said.

“He told the officer, ‘Give me the money or I’ll kill you!’ ” a law-enforcement source said, adding that the cop began losing his balance as he backed away.

His partner heard the cop pleading, “Don’t shoot me! Don’t shoot me!” He fired and hit Newsome three times in the chest, said Assistant Chief Raymond Diaz.

Backup cops arrested three other men running out of the building.

A source said Newsome was a suspect in two of the heists.

“White on white, black on black. I’m tired of killing all together,” said Jeff Copeland, who identified himself as Newsome’s uncle. “The police killed a 16-year old kid, and I don’t understand that . . . My mother’s upset, she’s hurt; my sister’s upset. That’s her only son.”

Several hours after the shooting, about 25 angry residents descended on Wimpy’s, some of them accusing the owners of setting up the teenager.

“You got him killed,” shouted Kevin McPherson, 21, banging a counter. “You set him up to get killed by the police.”

Another protester screamed: “They killed children. Don’t buy from these people.”

In the Brooklyn shooting, housing cops spotted the Mazda van – bearing plates belonging to another vehicle – near the Marlboro Houses in Bensonhurst.

When officers signaled the driver, identified as John Lagattuta, 35, to pull over, he allegedly led them on a high-speed chase under the elevated tracks along 86th Street.

Cops abandoned the chase. At Bay Parkway, two officers spotted the unarmed suspect and ordered him out of the van. He began shuffling with his hands as if reaching for a weapon and one of the cops smashed the driver’s window with his gun, police said.

A single shot went off, hitting Lagattuta in the back of the left shoulder.

The wounded – boxed in by cruisers – began ramming the police vehicles in a desperate attempt to escape, cops said.

He was pronounced dead at Victory Memorial Hospital.

Cops said Lagattuta has a lengthy arrest record in New York and Pennsylvania, mainly for auto theft.

In 1997, he was accused of trying to run down cops with a car.

In 1998 he used a car to run down a cop, breaking the officer’s neck. The officer is now retired. Lagattuta had been out on parole since November.

Witness Steven Kirschbrum said, “People were running for their lives. I saw at least six cops coming at the van.”

He said after the man was shot, a terrified dog leaped out of the van and into the arms of officers.

The fatal cop shootings yesterday followed two others on New Year’s Day.

Jamal Nixon, 19, who was on parole after doing time for weapons possession, was shot dead in Brownsville after he allegedly fired at cops.

Three hours later and only a few blocks away, Anthony Reid, 21, was killed after he refused to drop his 9mm handgun and fired at cops as he fled, police said.

Following the two new shootings, Mayor Bloomberg said he stood behind a statement backing cops that he made after the first two incidents:

“It would appear in both cases that police officers were acting according to regulations and using the training that they’ve received to protect the public.”

Additional reporting by Larry Celona, Erika Martinez, Marianne Garvey, Aly Sujo and Brad Hunter

——–

NYPD BLUES

Since the first of the year, police have been involved in four fatal shootings, three of them in Brooklyn.

1. 12:13 A.M. Jan. 1 365 Sackman St., Brownsville, Brooklyn – Jamal Nixon, 19

2. 3:22 a.m. Jan. 1 90 Livonia Ave., Brownsville, Brooklyn – Anthony Reid, 21

3. 1:35 p.m. Jan. 2 601 West 148 Street, Manhattan – Alan Newsome, 17

4. 5:15 p.m. Jan. 2 86th and Bay Parkway, Brooklyn