Angie Warren ran down Chickasaw Avenue holding her granddaughter’s hand, her husband Mike Warren ahead of them.

As they reached the crime scene tape, Angie Warren sat down on the hot pavement and crossed her legs. She cried into her hands. She shouted to God for help.

Her daughter — the young girl’s mother — was fatally shot by her boyfriend before he killed himself in front of police.

Veronica Marie Warren, 30, and Terry Lynn Moyers, 41, were pronounced dead at the scene, Metro police said.

Moyers called 911 at 12:28 p.m., telling dispatchers he had killed Veronica Warren and was going to kill himself.

As East precinct officers arrived at the house in the 700 block of Chickasaw Avenue, Moyers stood in the driveway with a pistol to his head.

Police tried to get Moyers to drop the gun. But Moyers shot himself in front of officers at 12:34 p.m., said department spokesman Don Aaron.

Officers found Veronica Warren dead in a bedroom.

The couple’s 3-year-old daughter was inside the house at the time of the shooting.

A history of domestic disturbances

Police had been called to the couple’s residence a number of times, Aaron said, although officers never found any signs of violence.

Neighbor Sarah Bennett, who lived several houses away, said she heard the couple screaming at each other days earlier.

Lajuan Ransom, another neighbor, said Moyers had come out of his house “in a rage” earlier this year while Ransom and his teenage son were walking down the street. Moyers allegedly pointed a gun at them and held up a badge, saying, “I’m the law,” Ransom said, and ordering the father and son to go back to their house.

Veronica Warren's relatives at the scene said Moyers frequently displayed a badge and pretended to be a law enforcement officer.

A life of drug addiction

Veronica Warren’s parents lamented their daughter’s life of addiction, which started when she was a young teenager.

“My daughter was a wonderful person,” Angie Warren said. “The only problem she had was pills. She had five kids she loved with all her heart, but the addiction wouldn’t let her keep them.”

Veronica Warren had custody of her and Moyers’ 3-year-old daughter.

Mike Warren said his daughter had become addicted to oxycodone, an opiate, and had dwindled to around 90 pounds.

Aaron said the Department of Children’s Services had been contacted about the 3-year-old girl.

Mike Warren said he and Angie Warren were attempting to gain custody of the toddler to avoid her being placed into foster care with another family.

Reach Natalie Allison at nallison@tennessean.com and follow her on Twitter @natalie_allison.