A Hoboken man fleeing police died today, authorities said, after he was

shot in the head

by a Belleville officer he had just hit with his car.

Edwin Munoz, 22, died this afternoon following a car chase that began in Belleville and ended in Newark, said Paul Loriquet, a spokesman for the Essex County Prosecutor's Office. A passenger in the car, Japhet Lopez, 25, of Newark, was uninjured and later was charged with attempted burglary, eluding police and resisting arrest.A second passenger in the 1992 Toyota Camry Munoz was driving ran away and remains at large, Essex County Prosecutor Paula Dow said at a press conference held around 2 p.m. at Superior Court in Newark.

Officer Robert Kane, 42, was hospitalized, but the 14-year Belleville police veteran was released several hours later, township Police Chief Joseph Rotonda said.

Kane's partner, eight-year veteran Glenn Zadroga, 38, injured his hand during the chase but was treated at the scene, Rotonda said.

Dow said the chase started at 2:10 a.m. when the patrolling Belleville officers saw a man trying to break into a car on Franklin Street. She said when the suspect realized he had been spotted, he got into the Camry, which then sped off.

Kane and Zadroga turned on their lights and siren and chased the Camry, Dow said. During the chase, a person bailed out of the Camry and got away.

The officers pursued the Camry to Lincoln Avenue and Herbert Place in Newark, Detective Todd McClendon of the Newark police said. The car then made a U-turn on Herbert Place, a dead end street, and drove toward the officers, who by then had gotten out of their cruiser, Rotonda said.

The Camry hit Kane as he was firing upon it, Dow said, and Munoz was shot in the head.

After Munoz was struck, front seat passenger Lopez took over driving the vehicle but struck a tree at Broad and Clay streets, Dow said. She said officers chased down Lopez and arrested him.

Munoz was taken to University Hospital in Newark, where he died late this afternoon, Loriquet said.

Kane was taken to Clara Maass Medical Center in Belleville, where he was treated for injuries to his shoulder, arm and lower leg, Rotonda said. He was later released.

Dow said her office's professional standards unit is conducting an investigation, as is standard procedure in police-involved shootings.

"The matter will be presented to a grand jury," Dow said.

Kane's attorney, Anthony J. Iacullo of Nutley, said Kane and Zadroga acted properly.

"Officer Kane responded in order to save his life," Iacullo said.