Title: US GA: Macon Officers Shoot Man To Death

Published On: 2000-05-13

Source: Macon Telegraph (GA)

Fetched On: 2008-09-04 18:51:13

MACON OFFICERS SHOOT MAN TO DEATH



Police Say They Returned Fire During Drug Stakeout



Two Macon police officers shot and killed one of two gunmen who walked

up from behind and fired on them during a drug stakeout late Thursday

night. The suspects approached the prone officers, asked "What are you

doing here?" and opened fire when the officers identified themselves

late Thursday, authorities said.



The officers, members of the department's fatigues-clad Crime

Suppression Unit, were lying along a wooded trail near a row of

east-side duplexes around 11:25 p.m. when the suspects apparently

happened upon them.



Officers Heath Holcomb and Sandra Aldridge, both 26 and three-year

veterans of the force, were not wounded. The two are part of a

five-person unit monitoring alleged drug dealing in a pocket of the

Fort Hill community notorious for street-level crack cocaine sales.



Police identified the dead man as 25-year-old Patrick

Long.



"Both men challenged the officers, at which time the officers

identified themselves as police and directed the individuals to move

on," deputy police chief Willie J. May said, reading from a prepared

statement. "At this same moment, one of the officers noticed that one

of the men was armed with a handgun. Instinctively, the officer

commanded the individuals to 'get down,' but instead they began to

retreat away from the officers, backing away.



"Both men fired several shots at officers, who returned fire upon

being engaged."



The suspects ran in different directions, firing at the officers while

fleeing, the deputy chief said.



May added that although investigators did not find any guns, they

found 9 mm bullet casings. May said that is "substantial evidence"

that the suspects shot at the officers. The officers were armed with

10 mm Glocks.



The second gunman, wearing a Hawaiian-style shirt, got away. As of

late Friday, he had not been identified.



Shot twice, Long died at The Medical Center of Central Georgia shortly

after the 11:25 p.m. shootout, police said.



Authorities did not say which officer fired the fatal shot, but said

that, during the exchange, one officer fired three times and the other

shot twice. Results of an autopsy performed Friday afternoon at the

state crime lab in Atlanta were not immediately available, authorities

said.



Long, who according to sources close to the case was shot once in his

side and possibly once in the head, collapsed beside a vacant duplex

at the northeast corner of Mitchell and Bowman streets. The duplex

sits across from Fort Hill Cemetery.



The area, east of Gray Highway, about midway between Emery Highway and

Shurling Drive, has for years been an all-hours haven for crack users

and dealers.



May described the terrain where the gun battle broke out as "a very

dense area."



"The suspects," May said, "came up through the woods and the officers,

in prone position, turned and said to them, 'We're police officers,

move on.'"



The deputy chief said the suspects "confronted" and "challenged" the

officers after the officers identified themselves. He did not explain

exactly how the suspects "challenged" the officers.



When asked what became of the handgun that Long is said to have used,

May said that was not known. He did, however, say that "it's a

possibility that some of the gathering crowd," which formed shortly

after the shootout, did something with it.



"The investigation is ongoing, and there are some things we cannot

give you," May said.



The officers, meanwhile, are on administrative leave with pay, which

is routine in police-involved shootings. The department's Shooting

Review Board will convene later this month to go over the shootout's

specifics and rule whether use-of-deadly-force policies were followed.

The last Macon police shooting that resulted in a death was in July

1998.



One of the people questioned by police Friday identified herself as

Long's girlfriend and said he is the father of her two sons, a

5-year-old and a 2-year-old.



"I wish I knew what happened. ... He never had a gun," said

24-year-old Vanessa Good. "My son just asked was his daddy coming

over. I told him his daddy was dead."



Good said she and Long, natives of Rock Hill, S.C., came to Macon a

year ago and that she has been living with her mother. Good hadn't

seen Long for a couple of weeks.



She said he recently quit his job at a fast-food restaurant on Spring

Street. A manager at the eatery said Friday that Long "just didn't

show up" for work about a week ago.



Long and Good had plans to move back to South Carolina and get

married, said Good, adding that she is six months pregnant with Long's

child.



"We were gonna buy a trailer and raise our kids," she said. "He was a

good guy and a good father, too."



To contact Joe Kovac Jr., call 744-4397 or e-mail jkovac@macontel.com.



Posted by: Allan Wilkinson