Here are the names and some information about the five police officers shot this morning in a Jersey City shooting on Reed Street off Bergen Avenue that left two suspects dead:

FRANK MOLINA JR., 35 : A 15-year veteran of the Jersey City police force, Molina is assigned to the Emergency Services Unit. He was shot in the back, saved by his bulletproof vest and remains in the Jersey City Medical Center for observation. He has 11 Excellent Police Service awards, three commendations and a World Trade Center award.

MICHAEL CAMACHO, 25: A five-year veteran of the Jersey City police force assigned to the Emergency Services Unit, he was shot in neck and remains in critical condition at the JCMC. He has two Excellent Police Service awards and one commendation. Jack Quigley, who was the leader of Camacho's Eagle Scout troop from the time Camacho was 11 until he was 16, said Camacho was "a wonderful boy." "He was just a great kid. Always bubbling over, cute, eager -- he helped all the other boys. He was a leader of the troop," Quigley said.

MARC DiNARDO, 37: A 10-year veteran of the Jersey City police force assigned to the Emergency Services Unit, he was shot in the face and is in critical condition at the JCMC. He has seven Excellent Police Service awards, two commendations and the World Trade Center award. "He's a cop's cop," said Steven Cuniff, who grew up with DiNardo on Kensington Avenue in Jersey City. "He always said, 'When you're a Jersey City police officer you're a Jersey City police officer 24/7' ... He's always been a good guy, a lovely person," Cuniff added.

MARC "SPIKE" LAVELLE, 43: A 20-year veteran of the Jersey City police force assigned to the Major Cases Unit, he was shot in the leg, treated and released. He has 20 Excellent Police Service awards, six commendation, two POBA valor awards, a Distinguished Service Award, a unit citation and a World Trade Center award.

DENNIS MITCHELL: A seven-year veteran of the Port Authority police force, he was appointed to the force in July 2002 and transferred to the Special Operations Division in 2006 where he was trained in special weapons tactics. He was shot in the arm, treated and released. He is married with two children.

The suspects are tentatively identified as Hussan A. Shakur, aka Hassan Hosendove, who was born on April 30, 1977, and Amanda Anderson, born on Aug. 30, 1986.

Police are waiting for fingerprint results before making a positive identification. The describe them as "persons of interest'' in the June shooting caught on surveillance tape.

Police had posted a wanted poster in advance of a news conference at the JCMC showing the two and saying they were charged in the shooting of the Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., man on Broadway and were in possession of a car stolen in Charleston, S.C.



Today's coverage, so far:

Video: Jersey City Mayor Healy talks about cop shootings



Emergency medical workers describe 'horror movie' at scene of Jersey City police shooting



President Obama said his prayers are for the families of the wounded police officers

Jersey City mayor manages to see President Obama on tragic day



5 police officers shot in Jersey City, two suspects identified

Investigators trying to positively ID man, woman killed in Jersey City shootout with cops

Five cops shot, 2 suspects killed in Jersey City shootout linked to investigation of June shooting caught on video

10 to 20 shots heard in shootout with cops; that block is trouble, neighbor says

1 Jersey City cop critical, 3 others hurt in police shooting that leaves 2 suspects dead

Jersey City shootout leaves four cops wounded