NEWARK -- More than 50 people blocked a Newark intersection this afternoon as they protested the death of a city man shot and killed Thursday by an Essex County sheriff’s officer during a drug bust.

At Springfield Avenue and South 15th Street, where Amar McLean was shot, family, friends and supporters linked hands and stood in a circle as they cried out his name in grief and paid tribute to the 23-year-old man who was shot, authorities said, while struggling with the officer.

"The man had no reason to lose his life," said Bryant Ali, a pastor at the New Psalmist Worship Center in Newark, echoing what many people at the vigil were saying.

Motorists who came upon the midday protest made U-turns or used side streets to continue their travel.

Authorities said an officer, dressed in civilian clothes, approached McLean Thursday before noon on information that a drug dealer was operating at the site. The officer, a member of the narcotics bureau from the sheriff’s office, was being assisted by the drugs and gang unit from the prosecutor’s office.

Upon approaching the man, they began to struggle, said Paul Loriquet, spokesman for the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office. The officer fired his service weapon into the man’s side, but the struggle continued.

McLean was eventually handcuffed and taken to University Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 12:30 p.m., said Loriquet. The officer, a 17-year veteran of the department, was also taken to the hospital for treatment of injuries.

Two people who were near the shooting site said they heard a single gunshot. When they came upon the shooting, they saw McLean face down on the ground, his wrists in handcuffs behind his back.

Police confiscated 20 bricks of heroin worth about $4,000 from McLean, Loriquet said. The professional standards bureau of the prosecutor’s office and the internal affairs department of the Sheriff’s Office will investigate the shooting.

Essex County Sheriff Armando B. Fontoura said he could not comment on the case, but added it was the first time during his almost 20 years as sheriff that an officer under his command had to use deadly force.

"It’s horrible. This is a horrible tragedy. My heart and condolences go out to young man’s mother and family," he said.

The man’s mother, Lorraine McLean, said she was angry at the police department and wanted answers as to what happened.

"I want justice for my son. Whatever he had done, they never should have shot him," McLean said as she stood with her sister Teresa Mitchell, Amar McLean’s aunt, and the rest of the family at the protest.

Zayid Muhammad, national minister of culture for the New Black Panther Party, led the rally and sprinkled water from a bowl onto the street in Amar McLean’s memory.

"Justice for Amar McLean," Muhammad said as people repeated the chant. "Stop police brutality on the black community."

Besides his mother and aunt, McLean is survived by his father, Crawford Dean, and his siblings, Amiesta McLean, Lakenya McLean, Muhammad McLean, Tamecca McLean, and Tyquaisah McLean. He also had a three-year-old son, Kenaz McLean, whose mother is Shaunte Pickett. He also leaves behind his grandparents, Mary and Howard McLean.