A career felon carrying 169 vials of suspected cocaine

when he died

in a

motorcycle crash

after a

Jersey City police chase

Saturday had survived only 36 days after being released from a 120-month federal prison sentence, officials said today.

Joseph Taylor, 34, of Belmont Avenue in Jersey City, served his prison term in the U.S. Penitentiary in Beaumont, Texas, from May 12, 2003, to July 16 after being convicted on the federal charge of possession of a firearm by a felon, Federal Bureau of Prisons Spokeswoman Felicia Ponce said this morning.

Taylor, who also has an extensive criminal record in New Jersey, was pronounced dead at the Jersey City Medical Center at 10:53 p.m. after crashing on Fulton Avenue between Ocean Avenue and

Vreeland Place at 10:15 p.m., police said.

In the middle of the road, between the crash and where Taylor's body came to rest, police found a bag containing 169 vials of suspected cocaine, reports said.

Taylor was in state prison from Jan. 4 to Nov. 27, 2000, for three counts of drug possession with intent to distribute within 1,000 feet of a school, as well as a parole violation and unlawful possession of a firearm, state corrections records say.

Hudson County Prosecutor Edward DeFazio said that on Sept. 5, 2003, Taylor was also sentenced in New Jersey state court for escape and resisting arrest but those sentences were ordered served concurrent to his federal prison term.

Cops began to follow Taylor after he sped through a stop sign at Dwight and Van Cleef streets Saturday, reports stated. Continuing on Dwight Street, Taylor blew a red light at Ocean Avenue, reports showed.

The officers turned on their lights and sirens but soon broke off the chase because the speeding bike had opened too great a gap, police said.

As the cruiser followed, the officers saw the motorcyclist turn right at Garfield Avenue and make another right onto Fulton Avenue. As they turned onto Fulton Avenue, the police officers heard a loud crash, reports indicated.

When they reached the crash scene, cops saw Taylor on the ground next to a black Honda about 25 feet from where his 2003 Suzuki motorcycle lay next to a dented white Ford Windstar, police said. A group of people gathered around Taylor, and police needed additional units to control the agitated crowd, reports said.

Taylor was not breathing, and although police officers administered CPR until EMTs arrived, they could not save him, reports said.