FRANKLIN TWP. (Somerset) — A Somerset County man was shot and killed by a Franklin Township police officer Tuesday night after he pulled a gun on officers attempting to arrest him at his home on a domestic violence charge, authorities said today.

Arthur McDougald, 60, was pronounced dead at the scene of the shooting outside his Franklin Boulevard home, said acting Somerset County Prosecutor A. Peter DeMarco Jr.

DeMarco said police received a 911 call at 8:45 p.m. from a woman saying her father was assaulting her mother. Officers found McDougald, outside the house near the backyard, DeMarco said. McDougald was upset at having been locked out by his wife and daughter, DeMarco said.

“The officers spoke to Mr. McDougald’s wife and after doing so advised Mr. McDougald that he was being placed under arrest for domestic violence,” DeMarco said. “At that time he became angry and fled from the police."

McDougald ran toward the front of the house and officers chased him, DeMarco said.

"While the Officers attempted to stop Mr. McDougald at the front of the residence, Mr. McDougald drew a small caliber handgun in his hand," DeMarco said. "Upon producing this handgun and pointing it at the officers, a 25-year veteran Franklin Township Police Officer fired one round from his service weapon at Mr. McDougald striking him.”

The officer's name was not released. After the shooting, the three Franklin officers were taken to a local hospital for evaluation and released.

“According to protocol, the officers involved in this incident have been placed on paid administrative leave, pending the completion of this investigation by the Somerset County Prosecutor's Office,” said Franklin police Lt. Robert Vornlocker.

The fatality follows two unrelated weekend shootings that left three men injured. Witnesses in those cases have proven uncooperative, the prosecutor has said.

Tuesday night’s shooting occurred as police union officials were asking the township council to reinstate some of the officers who have been cut due to budget concerns. Within the past 15 months, the department has lost 19 officers, including eight recent layoffs, said Franklin Detective Patrick Colligan, state delegate for Policemen’s Benevolent Association Local 154.

"We’ve been having overtime on almost every shift since the layoffs occurred,” Colligan said. “We have a real concern that things aren’t going to get better any time soon.”

While at the meeting, Colligan said he received several calls on his cell phone, and the union officials left for the hospital where the responding officers were taken for observation.

Three Franklin officers responded to the call, including a sergeant. “You have over 60 years of experience with the three officers,” Colligan said.

The officer who shot McDougald is a decorated, 25-year veteran, Colligan said. He is “an outstanding street cop,” Colligan said, and a calm, level-headed patrol officer who is well known in the community.

“For those people in the community that know him, I think they’re going to understand,” Colligan said. “I want them to see the results of the prosecutor’s investigation before anybody rushes to judgment.”

More Franklin Township news: