PENNSAUKEN

— A 54-year-old father who fatally shot two of his sons, one of whom was a Rowan University student, and left a third in critical condition was killed by police when he charged at officers wielding the handgun used to kill his kin, the Camden County Prosecutor's Office said.

Alfred Moton is responsible for murdering his son Alfred Moton Jr., 18, whose body was discovered outside on Henwood Avenue, and Steven Moton, 12, who was found inside the home on Royal Avenue, authorities said.

Charles Moton, 16, was found on Beacon Avenue. He was admitted to Cooper University Hospital in critical but stable condition.

Alfred Moton Jr. was a first year biology student at Rowan University. He’d only been attending classes for three weeks before his life was taken from him.

“Unfortunately, there isn’t a whole lot of information on who he was as a person,” said Rowan University spokesperson Joe Cardona. “He was a commuter and we’ve only been here for three weeks, so we don’t know much about the individual. It’s a tragedy whenever there is a life lost - but especially when it’s a young adult with so much ahead of him.”

The university will be offering counseling to anyone who may have difficulty with the news of Moton’s passing.

Authorities heading to the scene were initially responding to reports of an unconscious man in the street before receiving clarification that the person was a gunshot victim, and that there was a second gunshot victim nearby.

Then reporters started coming in of a home on fire in the vicinity.

Three officers approached the home from the rear and discovered in the rear sun room a man with a handgun, a container of gasoline and a lighter. When Moton spotted the officers he charged them, authorities said. He was shot several times.

Pennsauken Police reported that their had never been calls for service at the address or any other experiences with the family that would explain why the situation occurred. Investigators continue to try to piece together a motive.

Per standard procedure following the use of lethal force by officers on duty, the shooting of Alfred Moton Sr. will be reviewed by the prosecutor's office.