PENNS GROVE

— The investigation continues into the death of MoShowon D. Leach, the man who died here in late March during a scuffle with police who were trying to arrest him.

His death has been ruled a homicide by the county medical examiner.

Community leaders are asking the public to be patient while authorities work toward producing a resolution in the case.

“I want every person that lives in Penns Grove to know that the investigation is ongoing,” said Mayor John Washington. “I have not received all of the reports as of this date, but I can assure you that, as mayor of this town, I am on top of this situation.”

Salem County Branch of the NAACP First Vice President Ken Braxton Sr. said the NAACP is aware of the investigation and is following it both locally and nationally.

“We have not dropped the ball on this; the investigation is ongoing,” said Braxton. “I know they have a big decision, so I understand (the process).”

Authorities from the Salem County Prosecutor’s Office are now in the process of investigating whether or not deadly force was used and justified in the case. The report submitted by the prosecutor’s office will be reviewed by the state Attorney General’s Office.

The full details into the incident that unfolded in March have not been released, but authorities have been forthcoming with updates.

At approximately 10:07 p.m. on March 20, Penns Grove Police officers responded to an anonymous call of an unruly male wearing a white T-shirt in the area of Penn Village Apartments.

As officers arrived and located Leach, a New Castle, Del., resident formerly of Penns Grove, he allegedly refused to comply with police requests, which resulted in his being placed under arrest, authorities said.

A confrontation then took place between Leach and several officers as they attempted to take him into custody, according to the prosecutor’s office.

Authorities said that one Penns Grove officer initially responded to the scene and was followed shortly by a second Penns Grove police officer.

The two officers were then assisted by two Carneys Point officers after calling for back-up when attempts to arrest Leach were unsuccessful.

The struggle was said to last no more than four minutes. During the struggle, Leach became unresponsive and attempts to revive him at the scene were unsuccessful, said authorities.

He was taken to The Memorial Hospital of Salem County where he was pronounced dead.

The findings of the Salem County Medical Examiner’s report show Leach, 31, also known as Moshawn, suffered from blunt neck trauma after resisting attempts by police to arrest him, according to the prosecutor’s office.

Authorities said police officers attempted to revive Leach by performing CPR on the scene. No weapons of any kind were used, said authorities, but Cap-Stun mace was utilized to subdue Leach.

“I can assure you that whatever the reports say, you will know it,” said Washington. “I can assure you that you will know what direction is going to be taken when the reports are released.

“I thank everybody so far for your cooperation in this matter,” said Washington. “My prayers continue to go out to the family, friends and loved ones.”