An Evans man who died after a scuffle with police officers in July suffocated on a baggie full of cocaine he had tried to swallow.

An autopsy report released Friday said Rodney L. Sisneros, 26, tried to swallow the baggie when officers confronted him, but he inhaled it into his windpipe and suffocated. He also was extremely high on cocaine, the report stated.

Evans officers used a Taser on Sisneros when he fought with them July 3 as he was being arrested. The report, from the Weld County Coroner/Medical Examiner’s Office, said the Taser did not kill Sisneros.

“Minor blunt force injuries, including superficial Taser wounds, were nonlethal,” the report said.

Evans police spokesman George Roosevelt said officers did not expect anything different in the report.

“There really was no concern that anything like that would happen from the use of the Taser,” Roosevelt said.

Police were called to Sisneros’ Evans home, where his parents asked them to remove their son from the residence, Roosevelt said. The parents said he had been using methamphetamine and wanted him out of the house that night.

Sisneros barricaded himself in his basement bedroom.

“He was on the cell phone with his mom basically just pleading, saying, ‘Please let me stay here,'” Roosevelt said.

Family members were unavailable for comment Friday evening.

An Evans officer told him he was not under arrest and that they would even help him find lodging for the night if he would just give up and leave.

After officers talked with Sisneros for about 25 minutes, they used a key — provided by Sisneros’ mother — to open the door, Roosevelt said.

Sisneros fought with the officers, who stunned him twice. After the second stun, officers were able to handcuff him.

He fought for a few seconds longer before collapsing. Officers saw he wasn’t breathing, then removed the handcuffs and started CPR. Sisneros was taken to North Colorado Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

The autopsy report said there was no evidence to suggest anyone other than Sisneros put the baggie in his mouth, and the coroner ruled his death an accident.