Knoxville Police Department Officer Brian Evans holds a Taser X-26 model used by the department. KPD Chief Sterling Owen IV, who ordered that Tasers be issued to all patrol officers two years ago, said he remains comfortable with his decision to authorize their widespread deployment and use.

SHARE

Use has skyrocketed since being issued to patrol officers in 2005

By J.J. Stambaugh

Related studies

"Use of Force" investigates recent public and internal complaints, particularly in use-of-force instances, against the Knoxville Police Department and the Knox County Sheriff's Office and the way in which the agencies respond to those complaints. The News Sentinel reviewed about 200 Internal Affairs cases maintained by the agencies spanning 2004 to early this year. The newspaper also interviewed KPD and KCSO leaders, prosecutors, community leaders and citizens involved in complaints as well as current and former law personnel. In addition, the newspaper met with officials with the Police Advisory and Review Committee, set up in the aftermath of the 1998 deaths of four men who died during encounters with KPD officers. It reviewed PARC's own records that are generated independently when a member of the public complains about action involving KPD.

USE OF FORCE

1998: 2

1999: 0

2000: 3

2001: 1

2002: 3

2003: 2

2004: 2

2005: 39

2006: 79

Jan. 1-April 29, 2007: 30

Source: Knoxville Police Department

Despite numerous deaths across the country that critics have suggested might be related to the use of police Tasers - and the death of a man this year in Knoxville who was shocked moments before dying - local law enforcement officials maintain that the devices have proven their worth in the field.

They also plan to increase the number of officers armed with them.

While local authorities don't claim that Tasers pose absolutely no health risks, they stress that they give officers a less dangerous alternative to guns and nightsticks.

Knoxville Police Department Chief Sterling Owen IV, who ordered that Tasers be issued to all patrol officers two years ago, said he remains comfortable with his decision to authorize their widespread deployment and use.

"This year alone, we've seen a decrease in officers having to draw their weapons in very serious events, and perhaps they were able to use their Taser instead," Owen said. "Anytime we can reduce the chance of having to shoot someone, I'm in favor of it."

Tasers were only one of several "less lethal" weapons that KPD began adopting in 1998 after community uproar over the deaths of four men, three of them black, in confrontations with police over a seven-month period. At first, the devices were used only by the department's Special Operations Squad, but they started being carried by supervisors in 2000 and finally were distributed to patrol officers in 2005.

According to KPD statistics, Taser use has skyrocketed since they were issued to patrol officers. Tasers were only used 13 times between 1998 and 2004, but in 2005, they were used 39 times and in 2006, 79 times.

KPD spokesman Darrell DeBusk said the statistics shouldn't be interpreted as meaning that officers have gone "Taser crazy." Before all patrol officers were issued Tasers, he said, there were only "five or six" on the streets at any one time, but there are now close to 200, which accounts for the increase in Taser use.

The Knox County Sheriff's Office also is planning to issue Tasers to all of its officers but hasn't yet been able to get its patrol division armed because of budgetary reasons.

As of last month, 88 Tasers were deployed to various Sheriff's Office employees assigned to the jail, courthouse and other divisions, as well as to at least two officers on each patrol shift, according to Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Martha Dooley. The agency has 185 more of the devices on order, however, and training classes are set to begin in January.

The Sheriff's Office doesn't keep track of how many times Tasers are used by its officers, Dooley said.

Tasers can be used to subdue armed or violent suspects who can't be safely brought under control by other means, but KPD's use-of-force policy doesn't require that they only be used to subdue someone who is posing an imminent danger. Tasers, for instance, may be used anytime when pepper spray might be used or whenever a suspect is actively resisting officers.

On at least one occasion, officials say, they've clearly saved a life.

Suicidal confrontations

On Sept. 28, 2005, KPD officer Shane Watson pulled over a Jeep on Magnolia Avenue driven by a woman who appeared to be intoxicated. She had a male passenger in the vehicle whom she'd just picked up at a bar, and while Officer Shawn Neal and a trainee conducted a field sobriety test, Watson went to the passenger's side door to keep an eye on the man.

Watson noticed the man had a knife in his hand, and when Watson ordered him to drop the weapon, the man began sawing at his own throat.

"It kind of startled me," Watson said while recalling the incident.

As the man kept cutting into his neck, Neal broke out the window and Watson shocked the man repeatedly with his Taser. Multiple shocks were used because the man kept refusing to put down the knife or stop slicing at his throat.

"The whole time, he was cutting," Watson said.

Even after the knife was taken out of his hand, the man kept reaching up to his throat and trying to pull out his esophagus, Neal said.

The man eventually was loaded into an ambulance and hospitalized. A few days later, as he was being taken to a mental health facility, he ripped out the stitches from his throat and had to be operated on again, Neal said.

Although the officers never found out what was going through the man's mind, they feel confident that they saved his life that night and quite possibly the woman's, as well.

"This individual was very intent on hurting himself," Neal said. "That wasn't attention-getting."

The incident also demonstrated how useful a Taser can be, he said, because the two officers would have otherwise been forced to struggle with a knife-wielding suspect and might even have used their firearms, which would have defeated the purpose of trying to save a suicidal person's life.

"I can't imagine what it would be like to be a police officer with only a firearm and a nightstick," Neal said. "The more tools you have in the box, the better prepared you are."

The use of a Taser in disarming the suicidal man happened in 2005. In 1997, police killed Juan L. Daniels, who threatened suicide with a hunting knife for an estimated 80 minutes before KPD officers shot him.

The officers were cleared of wrongdoing, but Daniels' death was one of the incidents that led to heated criticisms of KPD and the introduction of Tasers a decade ago.

When asked if Tasers might have made a difference in the Daniels case, Owen pointed out that he wasn't police chief at the time and said he wasn't intimately familiar with the facts of the case.

"I'm really not even comfortable answering that question because we're talking about a hypothetical," Owen said. "I don't think it's really appropriate to venture a guess on that."

Daniels' relatives couldn't be reached for comment.

How lethal are Tasers?

About six months ago, a 39-year-old man died at the intersection of Magnolia Avenue and Cherry Street after he was shocked by a Taser during a violent confrontation with two KPD officers. Although authorities have concluded that Kevin DeWayne Hill died from "cocaine-induced excited delirium" rather than from his contact with the Taser, his family has indicated that they might file a wrongful death lawsuit against the city.

It's not clear how many people have died in the United States after police shocked them, but several groups have been alarmed by what seems to be a growing number of deaths. Amnesty International USA, for instance, counted 250 cases in which people died after being stunned with a Taser, and the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California says that at least 148 died between 1999 and 2005.

Claims that Tasers might have contributed to some deaths have been hotly contested by their manufacturer, Taser International Inc., and have sparked round after round of studies that don't seem to have brought the debate any nearer to closure. Tasers have been officially listed as a contributing factor in about 12 deaths nationwide, said Steve Tuttle, a spokesman for the Scottsdale, Ariz.-based company, and the company has won all 45 lawsuits in which it has been a defendant, according to The Associated Press.

Critics don't necessarily argue that Tasers should never be used. Instead, they believe the policies in place at many departments are too lax by treating them as nonlethal weapons that may be used even when a suspect isn't posing an immediate threat to anyone's life.

Pierce Murphy, president of the National Association for Civilian Oversight of Law Enforcement, said the number of people who have died after being shocked should cause officials to think twice before treating them as they do pepper spray.

"While Tasers are not designed to kill people or inflict great bodily harm, it appears from usages around the country that in certain instances, in certain circumstances with certain populations, they can result in great bodily harm or death, and I personally think they should be treated as such," Murphy said.

"Tasers have been justified to the public and to the elected officials who agree to pay for them as an alternative to deadly force. That's pretty much what people assume, what mayors and city councils have understood. ... But Tasers are not being used as an alternative to deadly force, they're being used as a substitute for hands-on contact by officers or using a baton or pepper spray."

The Rev. Ezra Maize, president of the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, echoed some of Murphy's concerns but stressed that he doesn't want to discourage KPD officers from doing their jobs, referring to the men and women who patrol Knoxville's streets as "kind."

"My personal belief is they'll use a Taser when they're not always under extreme circumstances," he said.

To Maize, however, Tasers should be viewed as potentially dangerous devices similar to firearms. Even if they don't kill, he said, the pain they inflict can be traumatic.

"If someone uses one on me, it's not something I'm going to ... forget about tomorrow," he said.

KPD Sgt. Keith DeBow, who supervises the agency's Taser training, said many people misunderstand how much electricity a Taser shock actually delivers. The Taser X-26 model used by KPD - which costs $799 a unit - often is described as delivering a 50,000-volt jolt, but that description is somewhat deceptive, he said.

"It's a 50,000-volt Taser, but that's what it takes to move the current two inches," he said. "Humans are actually hit with about 1,200 volts, according to the manufacturer."

Tasers work by using pulses of electricity that are similar to the brain's electrical signals and can be deployed in two ways, DeBow explained.

When Taser darts are fired at a suspect and the weapon is activated, the surge of electrical current causes "neuromuscular incapacitation," which means the person will likely lose control of his or her own movements and collapse.

"One of the biggest concerns with safety isn't the Taser itself, it's the suspect falling down," he said.

A second way Tasers may be used is for the officer to not fire the darts, but instead touch a suspect with the device, causing intense pain that ideally will make them comply with officers' orders, he said.

KPD's policy is to always call an ambulance whenever a Taser is used, he said, a requirement that not all departments have. Some agencies, for instance, only require medical assistance when a suspect is hit with a dart, but KPD mandates that anyone shocked receive prompt medical treatment.

"Any time an officer has to use force to overcome resistance, there is always a risk of injury to a suspect," DeBow said. "We attempt through training and the use of less-lethal weapons to keep that to a minimum."

Carol Scott, longtime executive director of the Police Advisory and Review Committee, said she appreciates the controversies over Taser use but has come to believe that they are a good thing for police officers to have.

"I'm okay with Tasers," she said. "I know there are a lot of pros and cons, but at this point, I'd rather you pull your Taser than a gun."

The Associated Press contributed to this report. J.J. Stambaugh may be reached at 865-342-6307.