The family of a motorcyclist fatally struck an NYPD squad car speeding to a 911 call claim the cop didn’t use his siren or pay attention to his surroundings when he blew through the Brooklyn intersection.

Delroy Morris’ family is now suing the city for $20 million, and want Officer Angelo Martino to be fired and criminally charged for the July 25 crash in Williamsburg, their attorney said.

Advertisement

Martino’s marked NYPD SUV was heading west on Metropolitan Ave. when it slammed into the 37-year-old biker going south on Driggs Ave., police said.

Fatally struck motorcyclist, Delroy Morris (Obtained by Daily News)

Morris, a father of two, was knocked from his motorcycle and suffered severe head trauma. He was taken to Bellevue Hospital but could not be saved.

Advertisement

The officer was responding to a 911 call of a shooting, which later turned out to be false, the NYPD said.

While Martino had his emergency lights on, he didn’t hit his siren and “failed to look where he was going” when he struck Morris, according to a notice of claim filed with the city’s Comptroller’s Office. The notice of claim is the first step before filing a lawsuit.

Morris' older sister Shavonn Tatum said cops expressed their condolences to the family shortly after the crash, but told them that Martino wouldn’t face any charges.

“They came with some sort of apology, but they could have kept it as far as I’m concerned,” Tatum said Friday. “At first we didn’t know (the police) were involved at all. All they said was that he was in an accident.”

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

More than two months later, the family is still struggling to accept Morris' death, including his two sons, ages 5 and 15.

No charges have been filed against Martino, but the state Attorney General’s Office is looking into the case, family attorney Sanford Rubenstein said.

“The family wants justice,” he said. “They want this cop to be held criminally accountable and be an example to other officers of what not to do when responding to an emergency call."

Cops initially claimed that Martino had his lights and sirens on, though witnesses told the Daily News only the SUV’s lights were on.

Advertisement

Cops racing to respond to a 911 call for a Brooklyn shooting — that turned out to be unfounded — blasted through a red light and fatally struck a motorcyclist. A marked NYPD SUV was heading west on Metropolitan Ave. in Williamsburg blaring its emergency lights when its driver slammed into Delroy Morris, 37, on a motorcycle heading south on Driggs Ave. about 9:25 p.m. Saturday, July 25, 2020. (Obtained by Daily News)

“You could hear the cop car revving into a higher gear as he went through the intersection,” witness Dex Sexton, 46, said at the time of the crash. “If he squawked his siren once down the block, that’s one thing, but the sirens were not blaring.”

Morris was launched 50 feet from his bike after the SUV slammed into him, Sexton said.

Both the city Law Department and NYPD said they would review the allegations once the lawsuit was filed.