It may be a long time before friends and neighbors of the 17-year-old who died Thursday night after a Taser incident get the image out of their mind.

"I knew he was dead before they ever told me," said Linda Handy, who lives near the two-story duplex apartment at 307 Rives Road where the incident took place.

Handy and her 15-year-old daughter, Heather Thompson, watched the scene unfold Thursday evening.

Thompson said she saw the teen, wearing basketball shorts and socks, on a stretcher as he was brought out of the apartment by medical personnel. That was after he became unresponsive when a Taser, a non-lethal electro-shock weapon, was deployed by a police officer to subdue him.

Martinsville Police Chief Mike Rogers said Officer R.L. Wray used his stun gun on the teen when he "moved rapidly" toward him. Wray had responded to calls of disorderly young men in the street and thought there was a crime in progress, Rogers said.

Handy said that EMS crews worked on the teen for about 20 minutes before leaving for the hospital.

The teen was pronounced dead Thursday night at Memorial Hospital in Martinsville, Rogers said.

He would not identify the teen because of his age. However, Thompson, Handy and others identified the teen as Derrick Jones.

According to Handy and Thompson, Jones and his mother had lived in the Rives Road duplex for about a week, after moving from the Villa Heights area. They had not finished moving in, according to Handy and Thompson.

Jones originally was from Maryland, and he "was a good person. He was fun to be around and a good kid," Thompson said.

Thompson said she visited the duplex "for a while" Thursday, but left because she had to be home by 8 p.m.

"She's my daughter. I'm not going to let her go far," Handy said.

Thompson said Jones had been drinking a mix of energy drinks and alcohol.

As Thompson left the duplex, she said Jones and another friend "left and went somewhere," but she did not know where.

Jones' friend told Thompson they had returned and "had been there about two minutes" when the police arrived, Thompson said.

The circumstances surrounding Jones' death are "disturbing," Handy said. "As a mother, it concerns me. It could just as easily have been my daughter."

Thompson said the two boys were not doing anything outside other than "making a little noise."

"Then, that's the end of him. He's dead," Handy said.