Shulena Weldon loved ballet, and at age 36 was teaching herself Rollerblading, friends said.

About six weeks ago, Weldon got a job through Goodwill working in the kitchen at Spring Creek Rehabilitation and Health Care Center. She put together trays of food co-workers delivered to center residents.

Weldon had been involved in a ballet in Harrisburg. She was so proud that she carried a pair of ballet slippers with her everywhere. She liked to show them to her co-workers at Spring Creek.

On Thursday, her co-workers were dealing with the news that Weldon was struck and killed by a Harrisburg police SUV in the intersection of 20th and Market streets shortly after 8:15 a.m.

“She was a wonderful woman who always had a smile on her face,” said Tim Shannon, director of food service at Spring Creek with Health Care Services Group, the company Weldon worked for. “She was just a very energetic and happy employee.”

Dauphin County Coroner Graham Hetrick said Weldon, who lived about two blocks away in the 1900 block of Bellevue Street, was walking north on 20th Street toward the intersection when for unknown reasons she ran in front of the police vehicle. Eyewitness accounts suggest Weldon was “preoccupied” in some way and might have been sending a text message, Hetrick said, but he added that he didn’t know for sure.

Trooper Adam Reed, spokesman for state police Troop H, said the city asked state police to investigate the accident because a city police officer is involved. Reed said initial indications Thursday were that the officer, driving a vehicle marked “Patrol Supervisor,” was not responding to an incident. He said he didn’t have further details and had no information regarding the status of the officer who was driving.

City spokesman Robert Philbin directed all questions to the state police.

Sharna Flood, who lives in a nearby apartment building, was an eyewitness to the accident.

“I heard a big boom sound. I stopped initially and looked both ways, and when I looked to my left I saw papers and belongings flying in the air and I saw an officer’s truck coming to a stop with no lights on, no flashing lights. It didn’t seem as though he was in a rush,” Flood said.

At first, Flood thought the noise was something falling out of a utility truck that was in front of the police vehicle.

She drove up the street, did a U-turn to come back down and saw the officer who had gotten out. He was outside his vehicle, pacing back and forth and looking “amazed” at what had happened, Flood said.

Flood said Weldon must have been dragged by the vehicle for a short distance, judging from where she was struck in the intersection and where the SUV stopped.

Market Street from 20th to 21st street was closed until just after noon Thursday while Hetrick and state police investigated. Yellow police tape kept dozens of residents back from the accident scene and from the vehicle, which was surrounded by orange fencing in the middle of the road.

Thursday’s fatal accident is a few blocks away from where a boy was hit and killed on St. Patrick’s Day in 2011.

Eight-year-old Owen Cole Brezitski of Lower Paxton Township died after being hit by a car driven by an allegedly distracted teenage driver in front of Bishop McDevitt High School.

Joyce Brown, who lives in the same apartment building as Flood, recalled watching Weldon teach herself how to Rollerblade in recent weeks.

She recalled how Weldon went down Market Street because the street is smoother than the sidewalk, at times using parked vehicles to brace herself so she didn’t fall. Brown said neighbors tried to get Weldon to use the sidewalk after she set car alarms off.