officers after standoff.

BY KEN KOSKY

Times Staff Writer

ROLLING PRAIRIE -- LaPorte County police said they persuaded a suicidal man to end a standoff and exit his family's home Friday morning, but had to shoot him when he suddenly pulled a sawed-off rifle from his waistband and pointed it at officers.

Keith W. Stratton, 40, was taken to LaPorte Hospital and Health Services for treatment of a single gunshot wound to the head, police Capt. Gary Broling said.

He never regained consciousness, and, with no brain activity, his family chose to remove him from life support about 2 p.m. Friday. Stratton died at 7:24 p.m. in the hospital's intensive care unit, Chief Deputy Coroner John Sullivan said. His body will be taken to Memorial Hospital in South Bend so a forensic pathologist can perform an autopsy. Use of a forensic pathologist is standard practice in any police shooting, Sullivan said.

Stratton's grandfather said his grandson had "talked previously of committing suicide by police officer," according to Broling.

The shooting occurred at 4:20 a.m. Friday on the driveway of the grandfather's home at 0500 East U.S. 20 in Rolling Prairie. Authorities said Stratton, a LaPorte resident, had been living there.

Stratton's grandfather first reported a problem at 6:30 p.m. Thursday, Broling said. The grandfather said Stratton was suicidal, displayed a sawed-off weapon and went outside and fired a couple shots. The grandfather said Stratton then left the home.

"We had a description of his vehicle and attempted to locate him, unsuccessfully," Broling said.

Broling said Stratton called police to the home on U.S. 20 at 2:38 a.m. Friday.

"He wanted to have a police officer come to that location. His exact words were he 'wanted to do this,'" Broling said. Stratton told police he was armed, he added.

Sgt. Mike Kellems, the shift supervisor and a hostage negotiator, called out the emergency response team at 3:05 a.m.

Kellems negotiated with Stratton on the telephone from 3:50 to 4:05 a.m., finally convincing him to exit his home, police said. About 4:15 a.m., with emergency response units and other officers surrounding the home and with the highway closed, Stratton exited his residence.

"The individual was not responding to officers' commands for him to show his hands and lay down on the ground and be taken into custody," Broling said.

He said Stratton started walking back toward the house, then turned around and pulled a sawed-off .22-caliber rifle from his waistband. Broling said Stratton pointed the gun at police and cocked it. Police fired an unknown number of rounds, striking and wounding Stratton with a single shot to the head.

Broling said police had arrested Stratton in 2003 on a child molestation charge, and he had other criminal charges prior to that. Stratton's grandfather said his grandson had been suicidal since being charged, but the reason for Friday's events wasn't clear, Broling said. He also said Stratton had previous suicide attempts.

U.S. 20 remained closed for about five hours after the shooting while police investigated and gathered evidence.

Ken Kosky can be reached at kkosky@nwitimes.com or (219) 462-5151, ext. 354.