Tony Holt

tony.holt@news-jrnl.com

DAYTONA BEACH — The suicidal Daytona Beach man whose actions caused a police officer to open fire in a backyard died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his neck, the medical examiner has determined.

Daytona Beach police Chief Craig Capri, in a news conference on Wednesday, said 23-year-old Shakyri Willis shot himself Tuesday afternoon not long after he came home from being treated for mental illness at Halifax Health Medical Center.

"Our officer's rounds did not strike Mr. Willis," Capri told reporters, adding that the fatal injury was "one single gunshot contact wound to the left side of his neck."

Capri said Officer Chris Maher fired on Willis when the suicidal man would not drop his gun. None of Maher's shots struck Willis. Maher has been a Daytona Beach police officer for about three years.

The body camera videos on Maher and other officers on the scene released Wednesday showed Maher fire five rounds toward Willis, who was standing about 40 yards from Maher holding a .40-caliber handgun. Before he fired, Maher ordered Willis to drop his gun three times, according to the video.

After all the rounds were fired, Maher ordered a distraught woman, later identified as Willis' sister, to move away from him.

After another police officer pulled Willis' lifeless body out of the tall weeds and onto the grass, Maher turned away and yelled a profanity. He continued to pace the backyard for more than a minute.

One of Maher's fellow officers tried calming him, telling him, "You're good bro, you're good. ... You had to (shoot), bro. You had to, bro. You had to."

Capri said Maher "did an excellent job" during a very stressful situation. He has been placed on indefinite paid leave, which is the policy following officer-related shootings.

Mental health treatment

Police responded after a neighbor called 9-1-1 to report a man holding a gun threatening to kill himself.

The caller said a woman was crying and screaming saying she was going to call the police if the man did not give her the gun. Police later identified her as Willis' sister, but her name has not been released.

“I’m calling you guys to get out here and handle this before somebody dies,” the caller told the 9-1-1 dispatcher.

Capri said Willis had been suffering from a mental illness. Willis was at Halifax Health Medical Center trying to get help earlier that morning and was discharged, Capri said. He had gone home with his sister to get his belongings and that's when the gun surfaced, according to police.

Capri aimed his criticism at the local mental health system, adding that Willis was a "victim" of a structure that doesn't treat patients with the proper care they need.

Capri's comments were followed by Cynthia Slater, president of the Daytona Beach chapter of the NAACP.

Slater said the mentally ill who are poor, uninsured or have no one to advocate for them too often are met with indifference.

"(Their) demise is met tragically and this has got to stop," Slater said.

John Guthrie, a spokesman with Halifax Health Medical Center, would not discuss Willis' treatment at the hospital, citing federal privacy laws.

"It is our policy to not comment on any patient information," he said.

Tragic ending

Police released 15 videos Wednesday, recorded from various police officers' body cameras. In those videos, police are heard consoling people.

"Is he gone? Is he gone?" one distressed man could be heard asking.

The same man later could be heard telling someone on the phone, "They shot my son."

Before his fatal encounter with police, Willis pulled into the driveway, got out of a sport utility vehicle and ran around the east side of the house to the backyard while his sister chased after him, pleading with him.

That's what Gilbert Sellers said he saw as he sat in his wheelchair looking through the screen door of his front porch across the street Tuesday afternoon.

Moments later, after police showed up, Sellers heard a series of gunshots. Willis was pronounced dead at the scene.

"It was pop, pop, pop," Sellers said. "I don't think (police) had a choice. They were doing their jobs. What happened was just a tragedy."

"(The sister) was trying to calm him down," Sellers said, recalling what he had watched and heard in the minutes and seconds before the shooting. "They ran around the house, and I heard nothing from the (backyard) except the girl screaming. Then came the gunshots."

Friends and loved ones of Willis have said his behavior changed only recently. His family attributed it to the drugs he took a week or two before his death. Capri said the toxicology report would take several weeks to complete, but he told reporters that Willis' family believes he was given LSD and had a severe reaction to it.

"He was a good dude," said Willis' friend Jamie Graves. "(He was) always respectful and very smart. ... Something happened in the last week to get him this way."