Ana Lucia Rodriguez could not celebrate the Feast of the Epiphany in Brooklyn yesterday, but her grieving daughters had faith she was with God. Rodriguez, a 63-year-old widow who attended church nearly every day, was struck and killed by an unmarked police car Saturday night as she walked to a prayer service. Her sudden death brought anguish yesterday not only to her family but also to several close-knit parishes in and around her Bushwick neighborhood. "I always knew she would go with God, but not this way," cried Rodriguez's 37-year-old daughter Maria. "Lord, why?

" Maria's three sisters sat around her in the family's living room on Palmetto St. Staring at the ceiling, Elizabeth Rodriguez, 33, spoke to her mother: "I know you are at peace, but we still want to be with you. I will never talk to you again, never see you again, never receive your blessings again. You gave everything for us.

Advertisement

" Cops from the Brooklyn North Task Force were racing to the scene of a shooting with sirens and lights on when they hit Rodriguez on Wilson Ave. near Grove St., police said. Rodriguez, described by friends as no more than 5 feet tall, was not in the crosswalk when she was struck around 6 p.

m., cops said. "She told us to accept God's will and that we shouldn't blame others for what happens in life," said Sonia Tejada, 40, the oldest of Rodriguez's daughters. She quietly added: "It doesn't matter if they had an emergency. They have to watch for who's in the street. They have to be more cautious. My mother didn't deserve to die this way.

Advertisement

" Still, Rodriguez's family and friends said they hoped no one would rush to judgment and blame the police. The Rev. Patrick Burns, a confidant of Rodriguez at St. Martin of Tours Catholic Church on Hancock St., said the NYPD task force was "devastated" by the accident. "They are feeling the pain of it," he said. Chose church, not party On Saturday, Rodriguez's family had asked her to go with them to a party instead of church. But she declined, choosing to prepare for yesterday's celebration of the Epiphany, the adoration of the infant Jesus by the three kings. She was on her way to a charismatic prayer service at St. Barbara's Catholic Church when she was struck. Rodriguez, who moved to Brooklyn from the Dominican Republic in 1985, worked at a cosmetics packing factory in Greenpoint. Her husband died of cancer last year. Rodriguez's daughters said her body would be buried in the Dominican Republic after a funeral in Brooklyn. "Lucia was loved by all of us," said her friend Maria Hernandez, 68. "Let's pray she is basking in the glory of God right now and always use her as an example for living.

"