A man facing sexual assault charges in Hall County committed suicide this morning in a barn before a State Patorl SWAT team threw tear gas to force him out and caused a fire, the State Patrol said Friday.

Members of the Nebraska State Patrol's SWAT Team and the Buffalo County Sheriff's Department attempted to contact Lyle E. Rachow, 36, at a residence southwest of Gibbon, State Patrol Capt. Fred Ruiz said. The officers were attempting to serve a warrant after Rachow allegedly violated a provision of his bond.

Rachow was charged in Hall County Court with first-degree sexual assault, making terroristic threats and first-degree false imprisonment for an April 9 incident involving a 36-year-old Albion woman. He was released on bond.

He had visited a victim, whom he was charged with sexually assaulting, and was armed and demanded sex, the State Patrol said.

Ruiz said officers attempted to contact Rachow by phone on Thursday and at 6 p.m. the SWAT Team was called to the residence where Rachow was believed to be in the barn.

At approximately 2 a.m. Friday, after attempts to contact Rachow failed, the SWAT Team used tear gas to force Rachow out of the barn, Ruiz said. Several minutes after the tear gas was deployed, officers saw flames coming from the barn.

They entered the barn and found a body hanging out of their reach, Ruiz said. Attempts were made to extinguish the fire and retrieve the body but the fire spread too quickly, he said.

The barn was destroyed and the body was burned.

A suicide note was found on the property but Ruiz said he had not read it. A weapon was also found inside the barn, he said.

Rachow was a Level III sex offender whose name and picture were posted on the Sex Offender Registry website and in The Independent on Friday.

Ruiz said he believed the timing of Rachow's death with the release of the Sex Offender Registry information was a coincidence.

Rachow was also wanted for an alleged sexual assault in Boone County.

— The Associated Press contributed to this report.

For more on this story, see tomorrow's Grand Island Independent or theIndependent.com.