NEWARK — An ex-convict who authorities say was romantically involved with a married corrections officer shot and killed the woman early Tuesday during an argument at a holiday barbecue in Newark before fleeing to Virginia where he killed himself as federal marshals closed in.

The shooting of the officer, Katrina Owens, was one of four that occurred during a 40-minute spate of gunfire that began just after midnight. When it was over, three people were dead and two others were hospitalized with non-life threatening injuries. None of the attacks was related, Newark authorities said.

Owens, who lived with her husband and three children in the Monmouth Junction section of South Brunswick, was having an affair with 21-year-old Allen Barron, said Samuel DeMaio, Newark’s acting police director.

The two were attending a Fourth of July barbecue at 35 Columbia Ave. when they began to argue inside the house, DeMaio said. The argument spilled into street when, at around 12:30 a.m., Barron pulled out a gun and shot Owens, DeMaio said. Owens was pronounced dead at the scene.

Barron, whose last known address was in Pemberton, Burlington County, fled in Owens’ truck and drove 325 miles to Richmond, Va., said Anthony Ambrose, chief of detectives for the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office. Owens’ vehicle was recovered last night, Ambrose said.

Authorities did not say how or when Owens met Barron or when the affair began. However, as a juvenile, Barron was incarcerated at the New Jersey Training School in Jamesburg at the same time Owens’ worked there as a guard, said two law enforcement officials with knowledge of the investigation. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case publicly.

Owens' husband, Marquis, is a sergeant at Northern State Prison in Newark, said Matt Schuman, a Department of Corrections spokesman. He could not be reached for comment.

Once he arrived in Richmond, Barron ended up at the Greyhound bus terminal at around 10:30 a.m., authorities said. The U.S. Marshal’s Service was already looking for him and tracked him to the station, said Kevin Connolly, a Marshal’s Office supervisor in Richmond. Officers in plain clothes approached Barron at 10:41 a.m., but he pulled out a gun before they could identify themselves, Connolly said.

After briefly aiming the weapon at a marshal, Barron turned it on himself, Connolly said.

Owens worked as a state probation officer from 1998 until 2006, when she took a "break in service," Schuman said, offering no details. She then began working at the New Jersey Training School in September 2007, where she remained until transferring to New Jersey State Prison in Trenton in 2010, according to a spokesman for the Attorney General’s office.

According to court records, Barron pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property in September 2007.

Law enforcement sources said he was sentenced to a year in prison and served his time at the Jamesburg facility while Owens was a guard there.

At the Royal Oaks Apartments complex in South Brunswick, neighbors described the Owenses as a close-knit family and said they were shocked to learn of Katrina Owens’ affair.

"They seemed to be very happy. I saw the little girl Saturday riding her bicycle out here with the other little kids and the father standing there, watching," said one neighbor, Joan King.

PREVIOUS COVERAGE:



• Man wanted in fatal Newark shooting of corrections officer commits suicide in Virginia

• Four Newark shootings in 45-minute span leave 3 people dead, 2 hospitalized

• Corrections officer from South Brunswick is identified as one Newark shooting victim

Owens’ death was one of three that occurred in Newark between 12:18 a.m. and 12:55 a.m. Tuesday.

The first incident occurred at 697 S. 19th St., when an unidentified male was shot. His injuries are not considered life threatening.

Thirty minutes after Owens was gunned down, 20-year-old Shawn Miller was shot and killed on Elizabeth Avenue, Murray said. At almost the same moment, 24-year-old Marquis Robinson was slain in the 300 block of Osborne Terrace, Murray said. An unidentified female was shot in the same incident and is hospitalized in stable condition.

Robinson’s death was drug-related, DeMaio said, adding that police recovered drugs at the scene of Miller’s death.

Despite the blitz of gunfire, DeMaio noted shootings and homicides have decreased since he implemented his Safe City initiative, a summer anti-violence program, on June 1. There have been more homicides to date in 2011 than there were last year, but the number of killings since June 1 has dipped, he said.

"Although this is a very tragic incident … this is something that is not going to deter us," he said. "Obviously we’re very disappointed at the events of last night, but we’re going to continue to move forward."

By James Queally and Alexi Friedman/The Star-Ledger

Staff writers Tom Haydon and Eunice Lee contributed to this report.