— A Camden man has been indicted on charges of aggravated manslaughter and death by an automobile for allegedly causing the death of his passenger while driving in a stolen vehicle and attempting to elude police, according to court records.

Caleb D. Harris, 20, of Camden, was recently indicted by a Salem County Grand Jury on first-degree aggravated manslaughter and second-degree death by automobile in connection with a fiery car crash on Route 49 which resulted in the death of Cedric Upshur, 27, of Camden.

Harris was additionally charged with second-degree eluding a police officer, third-degree driving with a suspended license and involved in a motor vehicle accident resulting in the death of another, and third-degree theft.

The charges stem from an incident which occurred on Dec. 15, at around 2:50 a.m., when New Jersey State Police attempted to stop Harris for a motor vehicle moving violation on Interstate 295.

Upshur was a passenger in Harris’ vehicle at the time, according to authorities.

Harris allegedly disregarded a trooper’s attempt to stop him, and exited on Route 49 eastbound at Exit 2 toward Hook Road, authorities said.

While driving on Route 49, Harris allegedly lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a tree. The vehicle sustained extensive damage on the passenger side and burst into flames after the impact, authorities said.

Troopers immediately pulled Harris from the vehicle to safety, but were unable to remove Upshur because of the fire and heavy damage to the vehicle.

Troopers and responding EMS personnel attempted to douse the flames with fire extinguishers, but were unable due to the intensity of the fire, said authorities.

The fire was eventually extinguished by the Pennsville Fire Department. Upshur was then pulled from the vehicle, but pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said.

Harris was allegedly driving a stolen 1995 GMC Jimmy with a Pennsylvania registration at the time of the crash, according to court records.

Harris remains lodged in the Salem County Correctional Facility in Mannington Township on $300,000 bail.

He is scheduled for a pre-arraignment conference in Superior Court on Sept. 24.

Contact Michael Williams at 856-935-1500 ext. 433 or michaelwilliams@southjerseymedia.com