NEWARK -- A Newark man has been indicted on charges of striking and killing a 3-year-old boy last year during a chase with city police.

Troy Ruff, 22, was indicted on Friday on charges of aggravated manslaughter, vehicular homicide and related offenses in connection with the Sept. 11 crash that killed Rahmere Tullis.

Ruff is scheduled to be arraigned on the charges on May 2 before Superior Court Judge Ronald Wigler. He remains in custody at the Essex County Correctional Facility in lieu of posting $500,000 bail.

Authorities have said the incident occurred at about 7:40 a.m. when officers from the Newark Police Department's Fugitive Apprehension Team were attempting to apprehend Ruff on aggravated assault and weapons charges stemming from an incident in May.

When officers spotted Ruff driving a 2002 Hyundai Sonata, they attempted to pull him over, but Ruff continued driving, authorities said.

After striking a car that was driving on 15th Avenue, Ruff mounted a curb near the intersection with 7th Street and struck Rahmere as he was standing on the sidewalk with his mother, authorities said. Ruff was immediately arrested, authorities said.

Rahmere was pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said.

The incident sent shock waves throughout the Newark community as residents remembered the boy one family friend described as "a gift."

Dozens gathered to mourn the death of Rahmere Tullis, 3, who was killed Friday, Sept. 11, 2015 in Newark (Paul Milo | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

"He was an adorable child, he touched everyone's heart," said the friend, Latayna Wright, during a Sept. 13 vigil at the intersection where Rahmere was killed.

Attendees at the vigil called for traffic-calming measures, such as a stop sign at the intersection or speed bumps on 15th Avenue, as well as greater caution on the part of the police during high-speed pursuits.

Newark Mayor Ras Baraka called the crash "a crime against humanity."

"This tragedy touches us on so many levels and the loss of young Rahmere is felt in our homes, our neighborhoods, our communities and throughout Newark," Baraka said in a statement at the time. "The way in which his life was taken is not just a crime against the laws of the land but a crime against humanity.

"The fact that this young child will never have the chance to sit in a high school assembly touches me as a father, an educator, and a member of this community. This child belonged to all of us and the City mourns with his family. All of Newark joins in grieving with and caring for the Tullis family in their hour of pain, now and in the future."

Bill Wichert may be reached at bwichert@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @BillWichertNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.