SOUTH ORANGE -- A Newark man has been indicted in the hit-and -run death of a South Plainfield father who was walking his daughter back to Seton Hall University in February.

Frank Bradley Jr., 30, was charged Friday in the 13-count indictment, which includes first-degree aggravated manslaughter, second-degree vehicular homicide and second-degree eluding police, the Essex County Prosecutor's Office announced today.On Feb. 9, James Walsh was killed by a hit-and-run driver in South Orange while walking with his daughter, after the two had just finished dinner at a local restaurant. Walsh, 49, had been visiting the teen, who is a student at Seton Hall University.

The motorist never stopped, but was arrested the same evening, authorities said.

Bradley, who was driving with a suspended license that February night, is also charged with endangering the welfare of three children in his vehicle, who were 2, 3, and 4 years old at the time.

Minutes before the crash, Orange police were pursuing Bradley in his car for having run a red light. But officers ended that chase as Bradley entered South Orange in his 1995 black Honda Civic.

At 8:15 p.m., his Honda hit Walsh at South Orange and Vose avenues, police said. Walsh was taken to University Hospital suffering massive injuries. He died a short time later.

A police officer standing nearby when Walsh was hit wrote down the license plate number of the Honda. Less than an hour later, South Orange police found the damaged vehicle in front of Bradley's Columbia Avenue home in Newark. He was taken in for questioning and later charged with the crime.

Bradley, who is being represented by a public defender, John Johnson, faces 10 to 30 years in prison if convicted on the top charge of aggravated manslaughter. He is being held in Essex County Jail on $150,000 bail, said Essex County Assistant Prosecutor Shelton McCall Jr., who is handling the case.

His next court appearance is scheduled for Sept. 23, in front of Superior Court Judge Peter Vasquez.

Previous coverage:

• Newark man charged in fatal South Orange hit-and-run had a suspended license

• Authorities ID man arrested in South Orange fatal hit-and-run