Windows that appear to have been broken by a projectile as seen early Tuesday morning following a standoff in West Deptford where a 24-year-old township resident is said to have died due to a self-inflicted gunshot wound. (Staff Photo | Greg Adomaitis)

WEST DEPTFORD TWP. — A 24-year-old suspect who was sought Monday after barricading himself inside a Buckingham Drive residence was found dead early Tuesday morning, according to police.

Around 1:20 p.m. on Monday, the Gloucester County Prosecutor's Office and the U.S. Marshals Service attempted to serve a warrant on William Schickel, a West Deptford resident who at the time was visiting a friend at 1083 Buckingham Dr., for a parole violation.

"While the officers were inside the residence, they heard a gunshot from the basement level of the home. The task force retreated to a position of safety and the Gloucester County SWAT Team was called while maintaining the perimeter," according to West Deptford police.

The SWAT team entered the residence shortly before 1 a.m. Tuesday and found a man who appeared to have died due to a self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said, though his identity has yet to be officially released.

A man sitting in a vehicle parked in the driveway where Monday's standoff took place declined comment Tuesday morning. A large white van parked across the street advertised itself as handling infectious waste clean-up.

Attempts to reach the victim's parents at their home in West Deptford were unsuccessful. Neighbors said they had last seen Schickel in the area at least a week ago.

In a Facebook announcement, police said at around 2 a.m. that it was safe for residents to return to their homes.

"At this point we don't know (if he is alive)," West Deptford police Chief Sam DiSimone said Monday afternoon. "We haven't heard from him since this started."

Schickel was indicted on burglary charges in September 2012 in connection with a pair of mobile home burglaries in West Deptford. Court records indicate he failed to appear in court in June of this year regarding violation of probation.

As the sun rose over the scene early Tuesday, all was quiet except for a few residents headed to work or school. There were no patrol cars or armored vehicles to be found.

Bruce Ciallella, who lives across the street from the residence where the standoff took place, said he was allowed back into his home around midnight after coming home earlier in the afternoon and being turned away be police.

Mike Dunner, who has lived in his Buckingham Drive residence for about a year, said he couldn't even approach his house around 3:40 p.m. after being dropped off from work.

Police officers were staked out in his back yard so he sat on the corner, where a last bit of caution tape remained standing. Dunner said law enforcement escorts were offered around 7:30 p.m. that would take residents back to their homes.

"We sat out and watched the whole thing," he said of seeing the events unfold with other neighbors from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. on Monday.

Police officers from Harrison Township, Deptford Township, Rowan University and a mobile Tactical Command Center from the Deptford police department responded to the incident. The American Red Cross South Jersey Chapter was also called to the scene and assisted 12 evacuees who were displaced due to the incident.

West Deptford police could not immediately be reached for comment on Tuesday.

---

Greg Adomaitis may be reached at gadomaitis@southjerseymedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @GregAdomaitis. Find the South Jersey Times on Facebook.