Tracy Schlomer, courtesy ISP.

Stephen Liddle, courtesy ISP.

New Media Producer: Kerry Corum

UPDATE: The three lawmen, involved in Tuesday's shoot-out in Vincennes, are on paid leave while the investigation into the fatal shooting continues.

There's a bullet hole in the patrol car of Knox County Police Major Mike Morris. He was one of the officers who returned fire, killing convicted felon Tracy Schlomer. Police say Schlomer started shooting after his car crashed on a Vincennes street. State Trooper Jason Allen was hit in the chest, but was wearing his bullet proof vest.

Schlomer has a long history of drug arrests, and Sheriff Steve Luce blames the meth epidemic for much of the crime in Knox County. "I'd say upwards of 70% of the folks in our jail are re-offenders because of drugs - mainly methamphetamine." Knox County authorities met with the governor last week, and now plan to start a "Citizens Against Meth" group.

UPDATE: A shoot-out in a quiet Vincennes neighborhood leaves an ex-convict dead and two others, including an Indiana State Trooper, injured. Police say 36-year-old Tracy Schlomer opened fire with an automatic weapon after crashing his car during a high-speed chase. Two state troopers and a Knox County Sheriff's Major returned fire, killing Schlomer and wounding a passenger in his car.

Shooting witness Mary Ellen Like says, "It was a real shock because I hadn't seen or heard any gunshots before, so I really didn't know what an actual gunshot sounded like. It was real close and this neighborhood is supposed to be a real quiet neighborhood."

State Trooper Jason Allen was wounded when a bullet passed through the front window of his cruiser. ISP Sergeant Todd Ringle recounts the events, "Trooper Jason Allen was pulling up to the scene as this was occurring, and - before he even got out of his car, there was one shot that went through his windshield and he was struck in the upper chest. He is being treated at Good Samaritan Hospital as well." Allen was wearing a bulletproof vest and suffered only minor injuries.

The passenger in Schlomer's car, 29-year-old Stephen Liddle, is being held in the Knox County jail on a charge of resisting law enforcement. He was taken to jail after being treated for a gunshot wound at a hospital.

Reporter: Shannon Samson

UPDATE, 7PM TUE: The gunman has been identified as 36-year old, Tracy Schlomer.

UPDATE, 6PM TUE: The chase began around 12:30 PM when Indiana State Trooper Brent Clark attempted to pull over a man that authorities believed was a convicted felon carrying a weapon, which is against the law.

Trooper Clark spotted him near Highway 41 and State Road 50. Clark activated his emergency lights but the suspect did not attempt to pull over. He went to a gas station and officers say he was waving a gun around.

That started a high-speed chase on many city roads, which ended on Sievers Road in Vincennes.

The gunman hit a utility pole, and according to police, he then got out of the car and started firing at officers.

By this time, three officers were in pursuit and they returned fire. They fatally shot the gunman.

During the exchange of gunfire, a fourth officer was wounded.

Sgt. Todd Ringle, Indiana State Police, said, "Trooper Jason Allen was pulling up to the scene, as this was occurring. And before he even got out of his car, there was one shot that went through his windshield and he was struck in the upper chest. He is being treated at Good Samaritan Hospital as well."

Trooper Allen has been treated and released. Police say his bullet proof vest saved his life.

There was a second person in the gunman's vehicle. Police have identified him as 29-year old Steven Matthew Liddle. He was treated Good Samaritan Hospital and taken to the Knox County Jail charged with resisting law enforcement.

UPDATE, 2PM TUE: One person is dead, two others wounded in a chase and shootout in Vincennes Tuesday afternoon.

Indiana State Police tell Newswatch that the incident began when a trooper was trying to pull over a vehicle at U.S. Highway 41 and Hart Street just before noon.

They say the driver didn't stop. After a short chase, he crashed his vehicle into a pole and began shooting at officers. One trooper was hit in his bulletproof vest and was slightly injured. The driver of the vehicle was killed, and a passenger in the vehicle wounded. There's no word yet on the condition of the passenger.

Tune to Newswatch at 5,6 and 10 for complete coverage, and come back to this site for updates as they become available.

EARLIER: Indiana State Police are enroute to investigate a shooting in Vincennes that happened just after noon central standard time Tuesday.

Information is very sketchy on this incident which just happened a few minutes ago. However, the shooting is being termed by authorities as being the result of a "police action.".

Tune to Newswatch at 5,6 and 10 for complete coverage, and come back to this site for any updates as they become available.