A Porter County man with a history of violence was shot and killed by police Saturday outside his Jackson Township home after a two-and-a-half hour standoff.

James Francis Szotek, angry because he'd been served with divorce papers and a restraining order Friday, got drunk, shot his dogs and cats to death, then barricaded himself inside his rural Valparaiso home, according to police.

Police said he then fired 30 rounds toward a propane tank and police officers.

When Szotek finally came outside about 9 a.m. Saturday, he pointed a rifle at officers, prompting Porter County SWAT Team members to shoot and kill him near the back door of his home at 225 E. County Road 600 North, police said.

Porter County police spokesman Timothy Emmons said two SWAT officers fired shots, hitting Szotek at least twice. He suffered injuries to the arm, chest and head, according to police. Ambulance personnel responded immediately, but Szotek died instantly, Emmons said.

Police describe the 60-year-old Szotek as a troubled man with a history of alcohol abuse, violence and arrests.

Police said the trouble began after they served divorce papers and a restraining order at Szotek's home Friday. Two officers went on the assignment because the attorney for Szotek's wife told police Szotek threatened to shoot any officer who served the papers.

Szotek wasn't home, but the papers were left at his door.

On Friday night or early Saturday morning, Szotek got drunk and shot his two dogs and two cats to death, police said. A friend checked on him about 3 a.m. but left after being threatened. The friend called Szotek's son.

Police were notified at 5:46 a.m., and the SWAT Team was called out at 6:36 a.m.

Szotek barricaded himself inside the home by nailing boards onto doorways. Police said they tried to call Szotek on the telephone and communicate with a loudspeaker, but he did not respond.

At 8:45 a.m., police said Szotek began shooting out the rear sliding glass door, firing in the direction of police and at a propane grill, an attempt to get his grill's propane tank to explode, police said.

Police used tear gas to get him outside, then use a non-lethal rubber projectile to subdue him. Instead, Szotek pointed his .22-caliber rifle at officers and was killed.

Szotek's home is one mile north of Valparaiso and is just east of Ind. 49 in Jackson Township.