Advertisement Police: Man killed 2 before committing suicide Share Copy Link Copy

Police link one man to two local murders and now the cases are considered closed.Investigators say George Tingler Jr. killed Howard Couch on Bank Street and Bernard Abell on Southland Terrace before killing himself.Abell, 75, was laid to rest Thursday morning; police now believe he is Tingler Jr.'s second victim."Mr. Tingler's sister or family member had called dispatch in Clarksville and had provided information that her brother had called and said that he had done some bad things, that he had killed two people," said Lt. Todd Kessinger of Louisville Metro Police.Police found 56-year-old Howard Couch's body inside his a home on Bank Street Saturday.“Just an outgoing super nice person, guy ... I feel sorry for his family," said Gary Lindsey, Couch’s neighbor.“We began looking for George Tingler that evening, we were unable to find him,” said Lt. Todd KessingerClarksville Police later found Tingler at the Crest Motel.After a standoff with the murder suspect they entered the room, and found Tingler dead.Detectives say he hung himself. “It's just unbelievable that somebody would do that,” Lindsey.The next day police discovered Tingler's second victim, Abell, dead from blunt force trauma on Southland Terrace."He was a real big people person," said Zach Beckmann, Abell’s neighbor. "The injuries of Mr. Abell received, they were consistent with what the injuries from Mr. Couch on Bank Street,” said Todd Kessinger,Detectives said a place of employment is what tied the three people together.Couch and Tingler lived together for a short period and worked together as construction workers.Police believe they met Abell through a construction project that he wanted done at his house.Neighbors say Tingler's suicide does not provide closure.“When I hear that, I don't think justice was served,” said Beckmann. Surveillance footage from Southland Terrace also helped police to close these cases.Officers say Tingler stole Couch's truck and drove it to Abell's home.Detectives believe that Tingler used a hammer to kill the two victims. They do not believe that anyone else is connected to the slayings. With Tingler dead, police said they do not know his motive.