Bayonne

police Wednesday night shot and killed a man armed with a knife at a trailer park on West 24th Street off Avenue A, according to

Hudson County Prosecutor Edward DeFazio.



"There was a barricade situation and Bayonne police gained entry," DeFazio said of the shooting that took place around 8 p.m. "The victim was armed with a knife and police opened fire."

DeFazio said he was unable to give the man's name or any further details.

Neighbor MaryAnn Gibson described the dead man as 62 years old and married. She would wave hello to him every day as he passed by her home on 24th Street on his motorcycle, she said.

"There's one thing he loved more than that motorcycle," she said, "and that was his El Camino."

The man passed her today as usual, but he didn't "look right," she said.

"He looked like he was in a bad mood or that something was wrong," she said.

Even though she described him as "not all there," indicating she heard him talking about a hostage plan once, she said she never expected it to escalate to a standoff with police.

She said he lives with his wife, but the closest family he has otherwise lives at the Jersey Shore, with a majority of his family in Florida.

"I have no idea what triggered him. I would have never expected this," she said. She said she knew his name but didn't want to give it to a reporter.

Fox News identified him as a former Bayonne Public Works employee.

The mobile home park, blocked off to any unauthorized people by Bayonne police, holds 100 homes in four rows with one main road anchoring it at the far end.

Neighbors called police after hearing noise coming from his home on the far left side of the park, Gibson said.

One teenager said she was playing in a nearby park when she heard three gunshots.

"It was out of nowhere," the girl, 16, said. "I jumped onto the slide to hide. I was shaking. Oh my God, I was shaking.''

The girl, who has lived on 24th Street her whole life, said she never heard of any violence in the area, including the trailer park, where many of her friends live.

Gibson agreed, saying any violence in Bayonne happens elsewhere.

"I never thought this would happen on 24th Street," she said.