By Ben Horowitz and Steve Strunsky/Star-Ledger Staff

FRANKLIN BOROUGH — More than 70 law enforcement officers, including a SWAT unit and a hostage negotiator, responded to a standoff that ended after eight hours Sunday morning with one man dead by his own hand and his mother wounded, according to the Sussex County Prosecutor's Office.

Officials said Franklin Borough police responded to a 911 call around 8:15 p.m. Saturday, from a woman who said her 53-year-old son was threatening her with a shotgun in their house on Auche Drive.

When police arrived at the ranch-style home, the caller, Anne Elekes, ran outside and was shot by her son, Michael, as she tried to flee, said Sussex County First Assistant Prosecutor Gregory Mueller.

"The mother came running out of the house, and she was then shot in the leg, right in front of the police," Mueller said.

Mueller said the woman was flown Morristown Medical Center, where she was listed in stable condition today.

A hostage negotiator from the Byram Police Department, Sgt. Guy Mariani, responded to the scene, and during a telephone conversation was able to talk Michael Elekes into releasing his father, James Elekes Sr., Mueller said. The father, who was also in his late 70s, appeared to be unhurt, Mueller said.

At about 4 a.m., Mueller said, a State Police SWAT team rushed into the house, only to find Michael Elekes dead of what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound. An autopsy later confirmed that Elekes had killed himself, Mueller said.

Neighbors of the Elekes said they were evacuated and told to go to the firehouse at about 9:30 p.m. as armed policemen lined the street.

Neighbors said Michael had always lived with his parents and worked a string of jobs but had been out of work recently.

The Elekes’ family has two other sons, James J. of Murrells Inlet, S.C., and David, of Fort Wayne, Ind. Neither could be reached today.

One neighbor, Les Caparotta of Auche Drive, said Michael Elekes may have been upset by his parents’ plan to move to South Carolina to live in the warmer climate with his brother, James J.

Caparotta and other neighbors said the family had long owned a now-closed gas station that sits just 20 feet from the family’s home and faces Route 23. The family was said to be planning to sell the gas station property for use as a Walgreens store, a plan that upset neighbors.

Public records indicate that Michael Elekes was sentenced to five years probation in exchange for a guilty plea in 1997 to a criminal charge of eluding/failure to stop, after he initially had been charged with eluding and weapons possession involving a shotgun.

Neighbors said Elekes family members were avid hunters and fishermen.

Several neighbors who had recent contact with the Elekes family said things seemed normal and there were no signs of tension. They said the family tended to be "quiet" and kept to themselves but there were no indications of any problems.

Star-Ledger staff writers Seth Augenstein and Eunice Lee contributed to this report.

Follow @starledger