A man who allegedly came to the federal courthouse Downtown Monday to express "concerns about the government" returned Tuesday with a baseball bat. He was fatally shot by law enforcement after threatening people with a baseball bat and injuring at least one person, police said.

The man was identified by the county coroner as 55-year-old Ricky Ard.

A security officer inside the courthouse called 911 at 11:18 a.m. Tuesday to report a man armed with a baseball bat was refusing to leave the grounds of the Winfield K. Denton Federal Building at 101 N.W. Martin Luther King Blvd.

A witness, Scotty Williams, told the Courier & Press that Ard had a bat that he was "slinging everywhere."

Anthony Wolfe, another witness, heard Ard yelling and saw a police officer try to use a Taser on him.

"But the Taser must have missed," Wolfe said, and Ard allegedly chased the officer with a bat while the officer moved backward and fired his gun at Ard.

Williams and Wolfe both said they heard four to five shots.

Police said the Taser was "ineffective" and that officers also tried to de-escalate the situation before any shots were fired by asking the man to put the bat down.

A city police officer and a security officer who had been trying to keep Ard out of the courthouse both fired their weapons, said Evansville Police spokesman Sgt. Jason Cullum. Officials have not yet released the names of the officers involved.

2018 Evansville budget: What you need to know

Harvey's remnants will bring rain to Tri-State this week

'Mr. G' gives $5,000 for flood relief, asks community to pitch in

Ard was "escorted off the property" Monday when he came to the federal building, Cullum said. The Winfield K. Denton Federal Building includes the Southern District of Indiana federal court offices and other federal agencies.

"The specific details of what transpired yesterday, what his concerns were, we'll get into that as the investigation goes forward," Cullum said.

Ard returned Tuesday, this time armed with a bat, according to police. He reportedly used the bat to break windows on the front doors of the federal courthouse.

A federal security officer employed by the U.S. Marshals was hit by glass when the windows broke, Cullum said. He was inside the door trying to prevent Ard from entering the federal building, Cullum said. The officer was treated at a local hospital and released.

"This wasn’t vandalism," Cullum said. "This was an individual who was attempting to make entry into the federal courthouse by violent means.”

A security officer inside the building called 911 and an Evansville Police officer arrived soon after.

Ard lay dead on the concrete for about an hour outside the federal building until staff from the Coroner's Office removed him from the scene and returned to the office about 12:30 p.m. A bat and a Taser were on the ground near the body.

His body was left uncovered for about 30 minutes. Cullum said that was out of "duty to preserve the scene."

Ard's autopsy is scheduled for 1 p.m. Wednesday, according to Vanderburgh County Coroner Steve Lockyear.

City police will lead the shooting investigation.

Evansville police officers are equipped with body cameras. It's not clear yet if the officer involved in the shooting had his camera on or not. If he did, that footage will be public record eventually, Cullum said, though the police department will consult with the Vanderburgh County Prosecutor's Office to decide when to release it.

Both the city police officer and the security officer gave initial interviews to investigators Tuesday about the shooting and will be asked to give a second statement later on, Cullum said. The city police officer will be put on paid administrative leave for three days, per department policy. That officer's name will be released in a few days, Cullum said, whether or not the department decides to take disciplinary action.

Investigators will put together a file of evidence and give it to the Prosecutor's Office so the prosecutor can consider charges.

The Courier & Press has reached out to the U.S. Marshals' Office for comment.

“We encounter people on a daily basis that have objects in their possession that could be used to hurt somebody, but they’re not using them in that capacity," Cullum said. "A baseball bat is a kid’s toy when you go to a Little League game. When you show up at a federal courthouse and you start breaking out windows of the door ... you are using that as an impact weapon."

Ard had no court records that might indicate possible motives for his alleged actions at the federal building this week.

In July he was cited for failing to use a safety belt and driving without insurance, both traffic infractions. In 2002 he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of marijuana possession and was fined $1 plus a $200 fee and had his license suspended.

Evansville Police Department has asked anyone who saw what happened to call Evansville Police Department with information at 812-436-7979 or call the WeTip line at 1-800-78-CRIME.

Courier & Press reporter Mark Wilson contributed to this story.

Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the name of a witness. Anthony Wolfe was one of the witnesses who told the Courier & Press he saw the shooting happen.