A Jacksonville woman was shot to death by her ex-husband Tuesday morning, and the gun-wielding ex-husband was then shot and killed by police after repeatedly threatening to kill officers.

Jacksonville Police Chief Tommy Thompson said police received a 911 call about 8:30 a.m. from 71-year-old Judy Shipman Miller at her Cross Street home. Judy Miller told dispatchers her husband was outside, and that he was shooting into the home.

As officers rushed to the scene, the dispatcher could no longer get Judy Miller to respond but the phone line remained open. While police were en route, Thompson said, the dispatcher could hear a man - later identified as 68-year-old Larry Moore Miller - talking to someone else on another phone.

"He was calling someone and telling them that he already killed her and was going to kill police,'' the chief said.

Once officers arrived at the scene, Thompson said Larry Miller came out of the house several times, each time threatening to kill himself or the officers. "After about three or four times, he pressed upon the officers that they were fixing to die,'' Thompson said. "He had a gun in each hand was fixing to start blazing."

Officers fired on Larry Miller. He was taken to Regional Medical Center in Jacksonville where he was pronounced dead about 45 minutes later. Judy Miller was pronounced dead inside her home.

Thompson said the entire ordeal lasted only about 20 minutes, but said investigators remained on the scene Tuesday afternoon.

Larry Miller, he said, did not live at the home but had driven there and parked his truck before he started firing into the home.

Court records show the couple divorced last year, but had a long history of marital strife. In a protection from abuse request made 20 years ago, Judy Miller said then that he had put a gun to her head, unplugged their phone and threatened to kill her. "In front of my neighbor, he told me to come back home now or be prepared to die,'' she wrote in that 1997 report.

Thompson said they have responded at least four times to Judy Miller's home because of trouble between the couple, including once last year on a report that Larry Miller was violating the protection from abuse order.

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency has been called in to investigate the officer-involved shooting, which is standard procedure. Thompson said the Jacksonville State University Institute for Applied Forensics, the Oxford Police Department and the Calhoun County Sheriff's Office also are assisting in the ongoing investigations.

"It could have been a better day for everybody involved,'' he said.