Authorities on Thursday released the name of a man who was shocked with a stun gun and died in Torrance police custody after officers responded to a report of a knife-wielding suspect throwing items outside a Crate & Barrel housewares store.

Officers were sent to the store at 21710 Hawthorne Blvd. about 2:30 p.m. Monday. The man, identified by coroner’s officials as 34-year-old Deautry Charles Ross, refused police officers’ commands and ran, but they tackled him, said Torrance police Sgt. Ronald Harris.

During a scuffle with the officers, Ross tried to remove one of their handguns. He was shot with a stun gun and had his arms and legs restrained, Harris said.

“A check of the area revealed narcotic paraphernalia and a knife,” the sergeant said.

Harris said Ross, whose place of residence was unknown, had trouble breathing once he was detained. Paramedics were summoned and transported Ross to a local hospital. About 45 minutes later, the Police Department was advised that he had died, Harris said.

The Torrance Police Department is testing the use of body cameras, but the officers were not wearing any during the encounter, Harris said.

An autopsy was pending, the coroner’s office reported.

Ross had a long record of being charged with petty crimes, though most of the cases were dismissed, according to Los Angeles Superior Court records.

He was most recently charged with possessing methamphetamine and drug paraphernalia in January 2017. The case was pending and assigned to the Van Nuys courthouse.

The drug charges came after an 11-year gap on his record.

From 2001 to 2006, Ross was cited numerous times for lying on public walkways in Santa Monica, possessing stolen shopping carts and loitering in public parking structures.

He pleaded no contest to public fighting in 2003 and was convicted of theft in Santa Monica later that year.

Torrance police detectives asked anyone with any information on the case to call them at 310-618-5570.

Staff Writer Megan Barnes and City News Service contributed to this article.