The District Attorney released details regarding an officer-involved shooting on August 30, 2017 on Pacheco Road.

The report said the two officers, Officer Deutinger and Officer Johnson, responded to a call from a woman who said her 17-year-old son and 22-year-old nephew were fighting and there was a gun present. When officers arrived, she "changed her story and said there was no gun."

Officers wanted to speak to Issac Cervantes, the 22-year-old, and confirm he didn't have a gun. The release said Cervantes refused to let officers pat him down. The officers then attempted to take control of Cervantes' arms by force.

Cervantes then pulled a gun from his waistband and shot at both officers with a .45 caliber handgun. Officer Deutinger suffered gunshot wounds to his arm and neck, along with an injury from a bullet that grazed his face. Officer Johnson, who was wearing a vest, was shot in the arm and chest.

The officers were able to push away and return fire. Officer Johnson fired a total of 23 times. Cervantes fired seven times. The report said "Johnson was able to end the confrontation by shooting Cervantes in the head." Cervantes was declared dead at the scene.

Officer Deutinger's jaw was fractured and the inside of his throat injured by the gunshot wound to his neck. While waiting for the ambulance to arrive, the bullet moved within his throat and he could not breathe. He then coughed and spit out the bullet onto the street.

During the shooting, the woman who initially made the call, Elizabeth Lopez, and her 17-year-old son, hid behind a couch. They claim they never saw Cervantes with a gun at all. However, a .45 caliber handgun registered in Cervantes' name was found near him and an investigation revealed he had been showing it off to Lopez's nine-year-old daughter earlier that day. The 17-year-old son also admitted Cervantes had brandished a gun before police arrived. In addition, Lopez's cell phone records revealed she sent a text saying "Gosh my nephew is going nuts here he is high and has a gun SMH." Cervantes also had another .45 caliber magazine in his pocket.

The DA report stated because Cervantes attempted to kill both officers, the officer's shooting is justified.

Cervantes had enlisted in the Marines but had back problems so he came home to Bakersfield.