State police are investigating a Franklin Park police officer's fatal shooting of a hit-and-run suspect from Elmhurst.

The officer, whom authorities would not identify, fatally shot John Depoy, 53, of the 300 block of North Avenue after Depoy led police on a car chase Wednesday that ended in Stone Park, said Franklin Park Police Chief Randy Petersen.

Advertisement

Petersen would not comment on why the officer shot Depoy. A police source has said Depoy tried to run over an officer who had gotten out of his car.

"Anytime a police agency's officer uses deadly force, [the state police] are required to investigate to limit any bias in the case," Petersen said.

Advertisement

He added that the officer who shot Depoy had a lawyer present when investigators questioned him Wednesday night.

In addition to his home in Elmhurst, Depoy maintained addresses in Northlake and River Grove. He had been convicted twice of possession of controlled substance and once for theft, according to court records in Cook and DuPage Counties.

The chase began around 3:30 p.m., after Depoy, driving an older-model Cadillac, rear-ended another car at Rose Street and Nevada Avenue in Franklin Park, Petersen said.

A Franklin Park police officer witnessed the crash and saw Depoy push the car 60 feet north of the intersection. The woman driving the other car later complained of neck and back pain but refused medical treatment, Petersen said.

The Cadillac sustained major front-end damage, and the woman's car was totaled, he added.

Depoy backed up his car and fled, according to police. When he got to the 3100 block of North Avenue in Stone Park, he tried to head west in the eastbound lanes, but boxed himself into heavy traffic, Petersen said. When Depoy stopped his car, there were two Franklin Park officers and two Stone Park officers on the scene, he said.

One of the Franklin Park officers shot twice, hitting Depoy in the left arm and shoulder, with the bullets entering his chest, Petersen said.

Depoy was taken to Gottlieb Memorial Hospital in Melrose Park, where he was pronounced dead.

Advertisement

Petersen said he is awaiting the results of toxicology tests on Depoy.

The investigation was turned over to the state police's Public Integrity Task Force, said Petersen, adding that his department also will investigate.

State police spokesman Lincoln Hampton confirmed the task force is investigating, but declined to comment further. A Cook County state's attorney's spokeswoman also declined to comment.

Depoy was convicted in 1990 of possession of a controlled substance and sentenced to a day in Cook County Jail. In 1991, he was sentenced to 15 months' probation by a Cook County judge for theft. In 1999, he was sentenced to 2 years in prison by a DuPage County judge for possession of a controlled substance.