Raquel Rutledge and Annysa Johnson

Journal Sentinel

Relatives of the man shot and killed by Milwaukee police Sunday night say he fired warning shots in the air to break up a large fight that had broken out in front of his house.

Antwon Springer, whose nickname was “Blind Mack,” was the 37-year-old who was shot, according to his godmother, Darrion Clayton, who lives in the 4400 block of N. 39th St. where the shooting happened around 10 p.m.

“He shot the gun up in the air to break it (the large fight) up. He didn’t mean no harm,” she said.

Springer was legally blind after having lost sight in one eye from diabetes, Clayton said.

Clayton said Springer hadn’t been in trouble in many, many years and that he was a “good kid.” He lived across the street from her with his grandfather, she said.

Clayton had just come home from work and had gotten out of the shower when she heard a large commotion outside and went to her window.

“I just started praying,” she said. “That’s what I do. I sat down and started praying and I heard 10-12 bullets. … I just started crying.”

Two Milwaukee police officers were placed on administrative duty late Sunday after the shooting.

According to police, officers were sent to the block just north of W. Congress St. around 10 p.m. on a report of a large fight in the street with armed suspects. When they arrived, the department said in a news release, the officers saw a man armed with a handgun outside the home. It said the man fired the gun before officers approached him. "During the ensuing confrontation, the officers fired shots striking the suspect," it said.

Officers recovered the suspect's gun at the scene, it said.

The officers performed life-saving measures until paramedics arrived to treat the suspect. But the man died at the scene, according to the statement.

Police did not identify the man but said he was a felon.

Further details about his reported criminal background were not available Monday.

The officers involved are a 24-year-old man with 2½ years of experience and a 26-year-old man with five years of experience. The Milwaukee County Investigative team is investigating and is being led by the Wauwatosa Police Department. State law requires police shootings to be investigated by an outside agency.

Byron Henderson, a distant cousin of Springer's, said Springer had been on disability for several years due to his diabetes and worsening health. Springer was a good father and was involved in the lives of his two teenage children, Henderson said.

“He was not a troublemaker,” Henderson said.

Springer was armed to protect himself from all the trouble that’s been going on in the neighborhood, he said.

“He was not a threat,” he said.

Sunday's shooting was the second involving Milwaukee police officers in less than a week and at least the third this year.

A man suffered serious injuries after being shot by an officer during a confrontation near N. 29th St. and W. Wisconsin Ave. around 12:45 p.m. Thursday. Officers were called to the scene on a report of a subject with a gun, but the department has yet to say whether the man was armed or whether a weapon was recovered at the scene.

RELATED:Police: Man hospitalized after officer-involved shooting in Milwaukee

A Facebook Live video appearing to show that shooting quickly circulated on social media. The video, which was shot by a woman inside a nearby apartment, shows a man on the roof of a one-story garage attached to another apartment building. Two officers climb up after him and can be heard shouting.

The officers step closer to the man and then two gunshots can be heard. The woman filming narrated what she saw and claimed the man was holding a cellphone when he was shot. The department has not confirmed what, if anything, the man was holding during the confrontation.

The two officers involved in that shooting are a 33-year-old man with 3½ years on the department and a 28-year-old man with 1½ years. Both have been placed on administrative duty while the investigation is pending.

In addition, a Milwaukee County sheriff's deputy was involved in a fatal shooting in June at the lakefront. Terry Williams, 19, was shot after fleeing a traffic stop near Bradford Beach and driving his SUV across a median into a crowded intersection.

In 2016, Milwaukee police officers were involved in seven incidents in which they fired at suspects, according to an April 2017 report of the Fire and Police Commission. Three resulted in deaths.