The weekend death of a motorcyclist who was hit by a car allegedly fleeing Merrillville police should prompt law enforcement officials to revisit their chase policies, the mother of a 2003 crash victim said Monday.

Preliminary Lake County accident reports released Monday indicate the driver suspected of fleeing had a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.22, more than twice the legal limit, and that officers had slowed down when it became apparent the suspect would not.

For Merrillville mother Alice Jagiela, the Sunday death of motorcyclist Kirk John Mitchell was a reminder of her loss three years ago. Mitchell, 42, of Valparaiso, died of blunt force trauma at the intersection of 73rd Avenue and Broadway in Merrillville after his motorcycle was struck from behind.

Alice Jagiela's son, Anthony Jagiela, then 28, died in June 2003 when a Merrillville police car -- responding at a high speed to a complaint of shots fired -- hit her son's motorcycle near the intersection of Taft and Broadway.

The crash that killed Mitchell was preceded by a police pursuit that began when Merrillville officers reportedly witnessed Joseph Scott, 22, of Crown Point, driving 62 mph in a 30-mph zone in the 6700 block of Hendricks Street.

A Merrillville officer, noted on the report as Sgt. Mike Gurgevich, said he caught up with Scott, whose vehicle had come to a stop at the intersection of 73rd Avenue and Independence Street. The officer ordered Scott to pull over, which he seemed to do until another squad car arrived, police reports state.

Scott fled east on 73rd Avenue, again accelerating to a high rate of speed, reports said. Officers involved in the pursuit reported having reduced their speeds "considerably" when it became apparent Scott would not, the reports state.

However, police were close enough to the Saturn Scott was driving to see it collide with Mitchell's motorcycle.

Scott's car then struck a utility pole and came to rest in a drainage ditch. Scott suffered abrasions to his body, reports state. His condition was unknown Monday.

Merrillville Police Chief Nicholas Bravos said Scott has not yet been charged.

"I'm reluctant to give a statement until the county investigation is completed. It's only fair to let them complete their investigation," Bravos said, adding his department also is investigating the situation.

Sgt. Tim Finnerty, who witnessed the incident, said in reports: "It is my opinion that all officers involved acted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Merrillville Police Department. It was clearly the haphazard actions of the fleeing suspect that caused all of the unfortunate results that occurred."

Mitchell is survived by his wife and 6-year-old son. Alice Jagiela said she understands their loss.

Merrillville police have said the officer involved in the Jagiela accident three years ago was disciplined, and Alice Jagiela said her family settled out of court with the town.

"The police just aren't taking into consideration what can happen when they start driving at high speeds," Alice Jagiela said. "They think they have the right of way, but it's very dangerous."

Alice Jagiela's criticism of high-speed police chases have been echoed throughout the country in recent years, and some police departments have adopted bans on such pursuits -- particularly in response to minor offenses.

Bravos said in July 2005 his department recommended, and the Police Commission approved, a more clearly defined police pursuit policy. High-speed pursuits are addressed under the changes, he said.

Bravos said many factors are taken into consideration including the time of day, weather and traffic.