Prosecutors charged a 19-year-old Gary man Tuesday with reckless homicide for his alleged role in a high-speed police pursuit that ended in the death of 44-year-old Cornell Yancey.

Dorian Demar Dawson, of 2247 Filmore St., also was charged with four counts of resisting law enforcement, Lake County Sheriff Rogelio "Roy" Dominguez said.

Possible charges also are pending against a second Gary man, Elcie Washington, 22, of 1016 W. 22nd Ave., who was a passenger in the car with Dawson, Dominguez said. Both men are being held in the Lake County Jail.

The fatal crash that occurred Monday afternoon at 25th Avenue and Harrison Street in Gary is being investigated by Lake County police, Dominguez said. He said county police are not investigating whether Hobart police acted properly in the pursuit.

"The appropriateness of pursuit will be addressed by Hobart," Dominguez said.

Neither Hobart Assistant Police Chief Robert Laco nor Lt. Leo Finnerty anticipate an internal investigation into the officer who pursued Dawson, who police say was driving a Chrysler PT Cruiser that had been reported missing by a Valparaiso couple. The chase reached speeds of up to 90 mph in a 35 mph zone.

"The pursuit followed all the guidelines from the beginning to the end," Laco said.

The officer in the pursuit, Nick Wardrip, has been on the Hobart department for about three years, Finnerty said.

"He's a very good, very competent officer. The incident is so unfortunate," Finnerty said.

Lake County police Deputy Cmdr. Shaw Spurlock said the pursuit was called off by Wardrip about three blocks from where the crash occurred.

"He had backed off at that point," Spurlock said.

Lake County police were called shortly before 3:30 p.m. Monday by Hobart police regarding an accident involving a 2001 PT Cruiser and a Cadillac at 25th and Harrison in Gary, police said.

The PT Cruiser, driven by Dawson, had been pursued after Wardrip observed the vehicle driving erratically at Ridge Road and Martin Luther King Drive, just outside the Hobart city limits, police said.

Wardrip was in the vicinity of 25th and Rhode Island in an unmarked Mustang when he saw the PT Cruiser driving at a high rate of speed and driving erratically, police said.

At 35th Avenue and Martin Luther King Drive, Wardrip activated his lights in an attempt to stop the vehicle, and it sped off, police said.

Wardrip also learned, from Hobart dispatch, that the car he was pursuing was reported to be a vehicle driven without the permission of the owners, police said. Wardrip said he lost site of the vehicle as the car traveled northbound on Harrison Street, south of Interstate 80/94, police reported.

The Cadillac, driven by Yancey, was going eastbound on 25th Avenue when it was struck broadside by the PT Cruiser. The Cadillac then struck a traffic light and continued into a tree, ejecting Yancey, police said.

Dawson was apprehended by Wardrip at the scene and transported to the Methodist Hospitals Northlake Campus. He initially told police he was a passenger, investigators said. But police said they later learned Dawson was the driver. Washington surrendered to Gary police at 11 p.m. Monday.

Times staff writers Carrie Rodovich and Joe Carlson contributed to this report.