LISA LAMB

A man fatally shot by Amarillo Police Department officers on Friday was allegedly involved in a murder-for-hire plot exposed during an undercover operation the day before.

Billy Joe Elmore, 45, was shot and killed by officers during a SWAT standoff in northwest Amarillo in which an APD K-9 officer was injured, according to a department news release.

Police had wanted to question Elmore about his connection with Billy Glenn Ivy Jr., who was arrested Thursday on his second round of attempted murder for remuneration charges.

APD’s Special Crimes Unit started investigating new allegations against Ivy last week.

During the latest investigation, police learned that Elmore met with Ivy several times, including on Thursday afternoon shortly before Ivy was arrested after officers said he tried to hire an undercover officer to kill multiple people.

After his last meeting with Ivy, police said Elmore contacted one of the intended targets.

On Friday morning, Elmore’s felony bonds for previous charges of burglary of a habitation and arson were revoked and warrants were issued for his arrest.

APD Special Crimes, SWAT and Narcotics officers tracked Elmore to a home in the 800 block of North Forest Street that evening.

Police said Elmore ran toward a back door when officers approached the residence. He refused to exit and was found to be under the house in a crawlspace.

SWAT sent in a robot and K-9 Officer Koss, who was in the crawlspace when officers heard a muffled gunshot.

Officers then retrieved Koss and launched a chemical irritant into the crawlspace.

Elmore had a pistol in his hand when he emerged and was shot by officers, police said.

Police said he received immediate medical attention and was taken to a local hospital, where he died.

Koss was also shot in the incident.

The K-9 officer, who was not in the area when police shot Elmore, was treated at a local veterinary hospital and has been released.

Police said Elmore and Ivy met while both were in the Randall County jail.

County records show Elmore was booked into the jail on May 13 on charges that included burglary of a habitation and arson.

He was released July 19 after posting a $75,000 bond.

Ivy was in and out of Randall County jail several times between May 18 and July 15, when he was last released after posting $1.5 million in bonds.

Ivy, 49, is suspected in two murder-for-hire plots and pleaded guilty to a federal gun charge in July.

He is also the primary suspect in another murder investigation involving a missing Amarillo woman.

The United States attorney for the Northern District of Texas has filed a motion to revoke the pretrial release of Ivy after his arrest Thursday.

The document, filed Friday morning by U.S. Attorney John R. Parker, requests that Ivy be turned over to the custody of the U.S. Marshals Service until the conclusion of his cases.