A suspect was killed in a sheriff's deputy-involved shooting in West Valinda Monday following a domestic disturbance, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

WEST VALINDA (KABC) -- A suspect was killed in a sheriff's deputy-involved shooting in West Valinda Monday following a domestic disturbance, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

Friends at the scene identified the suspect as Junior Hernandez. They said he lived with his grandmother, but was being evicted when the trouble started.

Deputies were called to the 1200 block of Stichman Avenue in the unincorporated community just before 5 p.m. for a call about a family disturbance.

Family members had called authorities and said Hernandez may have been under the influence of drugs.

Investigators said the 40-year-old man had locked himself in the back bedroom of the home. He then climbed out of the window.

"As the deputies arrived in the backyard, they observed the suspect who was armed with what appeared to be a handgun in one hand and a rifle in the other," Lt. Rodney Moore said. "The disturbing party fired two rounds from the handgun at the deputies. Fearing for their lives and safety, the deputies fired multiple rounds at the suspect."

Hernandez was shot multiple times in the upper body. He was pronounced dead at the scene. Authorities said the weapons turned out to be airsoft guns.

The two deputies involved in the shooting were not injured.

Witnesses said there were several shots fired during the incident and questioned why so many were necessary.

"There were five additional shots. Four after. So five is good enough to kill a person. By the time, I got from the garage to the curb - four more shots went out. Why? Why did these shots come afterward," William Archulta said.

Many residents said they were surprised by the deadly confrontation.

Investigators said many family members were home at the time of the shooting and were being interviewed.

The investigation was ongoing.

Per standard policy for deputy-involved shootings, multiple agencies are involved in the investigation of the incident, including the coroner's office, the sheriff's homicide bureau, the internal affairs bureau, the department's office of inspector general and the district attorney's office.