An Arlington teenager who crashed a stolen car while speeding from police, killing three of his high school friends, was sentenced to 11 1/2 years in prison yesterday as a judge noted the "enormous sadness" surrounding the case.

The sentencing of Ray L. Bynum, 18, in Arlington County Circuit Court highlighted the intense emotions that have enveloped a community still mourning the loss of three Washington-Lee High School students and the imprisonment of a fourth. Hundreds attended candlelight vigils and forums to discuss what went wrong.

Bynum, who said he never wanted to harm his friends, apologized yesterday while pleading with a judge to be lenient.

"I wish I could change what happened, but I can't," Bynum said, turning to the families of those who died in the Feb. 3 crash. "I ain't no bad kid."

Circuit Court Judge Paul Sheridan decided to sentence Bynum as an adult yesterday, telling the teenager that he needs to take responsibility for his bad choices. Bynum, who was 17 at the time of the crash, had been out partying with friends that night, and witnesses said he had been smoking marijuana and drinking.

"He did not intend to kill his friends, but he did intend to drive a stolen car, without a license, smoke marijuana, elude police officers and ignore pleas for him to stop," Sheridan said. "The sentence is not in anger, but in enormous sadness."

Assistant Commonwealth's Attorney Frank Frio said yesterday that Bynum sped from police, putting several lives in danger, as his friends loudly begged him to stop.

"They were his captives, and sadly, Judge, it turns out they were screaming for their lives," Frio said. "There is nothing accidental about this case. It was a crash caused by intentional acts."

Bynum, who pleaded guilty, was sentenced to 34 1/2 years on three counts of involuntary manslaughter, underage drinking and driving, driving without a license, felony hit and run and eluding police. The judge suspended 23 years.

The sentence shocked Bynum's family and friends, who sobbed in court and later claimed that Bynum was a scapegoat because he is a young black man. Bynum's mother, Ramona, said police should bear some responsibility for chasing him and failing to come to the aid of his friends before the car exploded.

"They gave my son all that time to cover up all of the police negligence," Ramona Bynum said. "Yes, my son drove that car. . . . But he's not a bad person."

According to prosecutors, officers tried to box in the stolen car at a gas station, but Bynum fled, leading police on a brief chase along Kirkwood Avenue topping speeds of about 70 mph. When Bynum lost control on a curve, the car flipped into the air and slammed into the back of a drugstore.

Bynum ran and hid in the trees along Interstate 66. The car exploded, killing Theoaros "Teddy" Ejigu, 18, Tony Santander, 15, and Ashley Burlison, 15. Kyle Burlison, 14, was seriously injured in the crash.

Several people in the courtroom sobbed loudly when Ashley's sister, Kimberly Cook, read statements that she and her mother had written. Her mother was too emotional to read it herself.

"Not only did I lose my little sister, I lost my best friend," Cook said. "I lost a part of me."

Her mother wrote that Kyle was devastated by his sister's death and has started an "Ashley wall" in his bedroom. Sometimes his mother finds him in there alone, tears streaming down his face. He limps because of his injuries.

"If you have never lost a child . . . " Cook said, choking back tears, as she read her mother's words. "You aren't you anymore. What I would give for one hug."

Four of Bynum's teachers testified that they enjoyed having him in their classes and would welcome him back. They described Bynum, who is learning-disabled, as playful and good-natured and easily swayed by his peers.

Matthew Foley, one of Bynum's attorneys, said Bynum's mistake should be a lesson to others and asked the judge to spare him jail time and instead let him speak to young people about the hazards of bad choices.

"It could be any school, any kids, rich or poor, any kind of background," he said. "They go out, they engage in the high-risk activities that can lead to something like this."