SHARE

Vanderburgh County Clerk Susan Kirk has taken responsibility for a procedural mistake in her office that helped put a valid Indiana driver's license in the hands of a habitual traffic offender who had been banned for life from driving.

The driver, Daniel Joe English, 34, of Evansville, had the license with him on Christmas night when, while driving in an allegedly drunken state, caused an accident that killed Onterrio T. "Terry" Sharp, an Ivy Tech Community College student.

English, whose blood-alcohol level tested more than twice the legal limit for driving in Indiana, was fleeing police in a high-speed chase when his car jumped a median on Green River Road and collided with Sharp's car.

We commend Susan Kirk for stepping up in the aftermath of this tragedy and admitting that her office never sent the paperwork to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles stating that English had been suspended from driving for life.

The truth is, Daniel English must take total responsibility for the loss of Terry Sharp's life and for the injuries to others in Sharp's car. With a history of alcohol abuse such as English's, it is highly unlikely he would have stopped himself from drinking and driving, regardless of whether he had a piece of plastic in his pocket.

As Evansville Police Chief Brad Hill said, "You can suspend a guy's license, but you cannot keep him from getting in a car."

That is the truth regarding problem drinkers and alcoholics who have not taken responsibility for their actions.

Once the alcohol kicks in, there is little that can stop them from acting in an irresponsible way, especially if they have access to a motor vehicle.

Hill said English had been arrested previously for driving on a suspended license. Overall, he had been arrested six times in the past on charges of driving under the influence. Three years ago, his license was suspended for life in Vanderburgh Superior Court. The latter information is what did not make it to the BMV.

Regardless, when someone has a record of drunken driving on the level of English's, there is little that can stop them from driving while intoxicated, other than a prison or jail cell.

And that is what has happened. On Tuesday, English was sentenced to three years in jail, all but six months suspended for violation of his probation from a previous drunken driving conviction. His case involving the death of Sharp is pending, and it could be that down the road a good attorney may use the procedural error as a factor in defending English. But the bottom line is that the allegations as we know them place the responsibility for this terrible accident clearly on English and no one else. We suspect he will have a lot of time to think about that from the inside a cell.