SHARE

Staff report

A man shot by an Evansville Police Department officer at a North Side Evansville apartment complex has died, officials confirmed this morning.

Christopher Joel Banister, 20, was pronounced dead in the emergency room of Deaconess Hospital 30 minutes after he was shot. Vanderburgh County Coroner Don Erk said Banister is a Butler, Pa. native who was living on Heidelbach Avenue. No further information on his background was available, Erk said.

Banister, who was shot once in the chest, was a suspect in the slaying of 50-year-old River City Yellow Cab driver Garry Eugene Gilmore. Gilmore's body was discovered Tuesday afternoon inside his cab, which was found in a field off the main road leading into Moutoux Park.

Gilmore had been shot in the head, although officials are still unsure exactly when he died, Erk said. Autopsies for both men are scheduled this morning.

An Evansville Police Department incident report sheds some additional light on what happened leading up to police shooting Banister.

According to the report, officers located Banister near First Avenue and Mill Road while investigating a report that he had kidnapped someone. Police were reportedly aware he was armed and was a suspect in Gilmore's death.

Authorities set up a perimeter and tracked Banister north of Mill Road on foot. During that pursuit, police allege that Banister fired a shot toward Vanderburgh County Sheriff's Deputy Steve Lockyear in the 900 block of West Heerdink Avenue.

He was not hit and the pursuit continued toward the North Park Apartments, the report said. Banister was eventually surrounded near the pool.

"At this time, the offender turned towards the pursuing EPD Officers, raised his arm in their direction as if appearing to fire again, thereby forcing an EPD Officer to shoot the offender, thus ending the gun fight," officers wrote in the report.

Banister was shot at 9:10 p.m. and was pronounced dead at 9:41 p.m.

The name of the EPD officer who fired the shot that hit Banister has not been released.

Further information on the initial homicide at Moutoux Park has also not been divulged.