NORTHWEST SIDE — A former Chicago police officer found guilty in the death of a 19-year-old woman he ran down while allegedly driving drunk on the Northwest Side two years ago was sentenced Tuesday to 4 years in prison.

Alonzo Caudillo was sentenced after apologizing to the family of Jadzia Bobek, struck by Caudillo's sport-utility vehicle as she crossed the 3000 block of North Milwaukee Avenue to help open her family's bakery in the Avondale neighborhood on a Sunday morning.

Advertisement

"I swerved to avoid her mother, and I didn't see her," Caudillo, 35, told the court. "I'm not an evil person. I made a terrible mistake."

Caudillo's actions, and the seemingly soft treatment he received from responding Chicago police officers, led Judge Stanley Sacks to give the former officer a scolding peppered with expletives in October.

Advertisement

Sacks was removed from the Criminal Courts Building for the tirade, so it was Judge Preston Bowie who handed down the sentence.

Before doing so, he denied a defense motion for a new trial based on the allegation Sacks was prejudiced against Caudillo. Bowie noted the judge lost his composure during an emotional trial, but he said he believed Sack's ruling in the case was correct.

"Certainly profanity should not have been used," Bowie said of Sacks and the outburst. "But he's human like everyone else."

Assistant State's Atty. Maria Burnett alleged that after Bobek was struck, Caudillo told responding officers he was a police officer.

Although Bobek lay nearby with serious injuries and officers said they smelled alcohol on Caudillo, he was not handcuffed, his blood was not forcibly drawn, and he was allowed to sit for more than four hours before he refused to take a breath exam.

Police have defended their actions in the case, saying the fact Caudillo was charged and convicted shows they did their job.

But Sacks said last fall he did not have enough evidence to convict Caudillo of reckless homicide based on drunken driving--a more serious felony--and instead found him guilty of reckless driving. He was eligible to receive up to 5 years in prison for the conviction.

Probation would have been a slap on the wrist, the judge said, despite his lawyer, Fred Acosta's argument that he was "redeemable." With credit for good time, Caudillo is expected to serve 2 years.