After about a day of testimony from police, witnesses and forensic experts, a seven-member jury took less than 30 minutes to determine that the officer-involved shooting that killed Thomas Jordan Addison was justified in September.

The coroner's inquest, which began Monday afternoon, wrapped up around 11 a.m. Tuesday when the jury reached the verdict.

Robert Kurtzman, chief medical examiner at the Department of Justice's State Crime Lab in Billings, testified Tuesday morning. He said Addison had died as the result of a single gunshot wound to the trunk of the neck.

He said it would not have been immediately fatal, but Addison would have been internally bleeding so badly that life-saving measures in the field would not have been enough to keep him alive.

Addison was shot and killed by police after a suspected break-in on Sept. 11, 2017. Officers Adam Stergionis and Tad Kimmet testified on Monday that Addison had concealed a knife and turned and threatened police, claiming it was a gun and that he was going to shoot them with it. Even after Kimmet fired one round and missed, Addison still threatened officers.

"This is an officer's worst-case scenario," said GFPD Sgt. Jim Wells, who conducts use-of-force training within the department.

He said suspects often challenge police before any shots are fired. But when Addison reportedly continued to be aggressive toward officers after the first shot, "That's astounding to me. I can only imagine what's going through Officer Kimmet's mind. I would have been scared to death that I was going to be killed at that point or shot."

Wells said a Taser would have likely been insufficient in the incident because Addison was facing the officers, and the device is less effective when deployed at a person's front side. Regardless, the threat of a gun combined with brandishing a metallic object had given the officers reason for a more lethal threat, he said, even if that object ends up being a knife instead.

"We don't want to have to take a human life," he said. "I'll see officers using the less lethal form of force when they should have gone to lethal force faster."

In closing statements, Cascade County Attorney Josh Racki said the threat against the officers was unlawful. While all evidence about Addison's arrest that night pointed toward the officers doing things correctly, according to reports, in the event there was a mistake, and the police sought to arrest him unlawfully, Addison should have come peacefully into custody.

"If the cops are arresting you unreasonably, you just have to go with them. That's the law," he said.

The Civic Center chambers were cleared as jurors took to deliberations. Families and law enforcement embraced each other when the verdict was read shortly before 11 a.m.