UPDATE 9/14/17 @ 6:10 p.m.

BRAXTON COUNTY, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- The name of a man who was shot and killed Thursday after coming at officers with a knife after a barricade situation has been released.

According to West Virginia State Police, he was 50-year-old Gary Joe McCourt Jr.

WVSP says a call came in early Thursday morning about someone barricaded inside a home near Frametown.

Troopers say McCourt didn't live at the house, but they believe he's from the Braxton County area.

UPDATE 9/14/17 @ 2:45 p.m.

BRAXTON COUNTY, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- West Virginia State Police say a man is dead after he came at officers with a knife after a barricade situation.

WVSP says a call came in early Thursday morning about someone barricaded inside a home near Frametown.

Troopers say the man didn't live at the house, but they believe he's from the Braxton County area.

Other people were inside the home with man, but when investigators arrived everyone was out of the house except for the man.

Troopers say the man was in the bedroom of the home and negotiators were in the living room.

The man came out of the bedroom around 7:30 a.m. with a knife and came at officers. That's when he was shot and killed.

According to WVSP, the man's name has not been released and troopers aren't releasing why they man barricaded himself in the first place.

No members of law enforcement were injured in the incident.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

ORIGINAL STORY 9/14/17

BRAXTON COUNTY, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- West Virginia State Police say a person is dead after an officer-involved shooting.

Troopers say the shooting happened Thursday morning in the Upper Sleith area of Braxton County.

According to WVSP, the troopers involved in the shooting are not hurt.

The Braxton County Sheriff's Department and Gassaway Police Department assisted in the incident.

Investigators are on scene.

We have a crew heading to the scene.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.