SAN JOSE — A San Jose police officer was justified in fatally shooting an unarmed man suspected of participating in a gas-station robbery who reportedly ignored officers’ repeated commands to keep his hands up, according to the Santa Clara County District Attorney’s Office.

In a 19-page report released Monday, the district attorney’s office outlined its findings of the fatal shooting death of 33-year-old Jacob Dominguez, a “fugitive gang member who refused to surrender during a 2017 car stop and made a sudden movement as to retrieve a weapon.”

CLICK HERE if you are having a problem viewing the video on a mobile device

“Based on the evidence reviewed in this case, Officer (Michael) Pina actually and reasonably believed that he needed to use deadly force to protect himself and others when Dominguez, a known violent gang member, ignored explicit and repeated commands at gunpoint to keep his hands up, and decided to drop his hands out of view,” prosecutor Rob Baker wrote in his conclusion.

Following the shooting on Sept. 15, 2017, it was determined that Dominguez was not armed with a gun, according to the DA report. A knife and a bag of methamphetamine was found near Dominguez.

Dominguez’s family filed a lawsuit in August against the San Jose Police Department, its officers and the city for alleged civil rights violations.The family claims Dominguez was “never a lethal threat to the police officers or anyone else” and “never threatened the use of force on himself or another.”

John Kevin Crowley, the attorney representing Dominguez’s family, could not be immediately be reached for comment Monday.

At a press conference days after the shooting, San Jose police said Dominguez was partially identified as being a suspect in a gang-motivated shooting that occurred on Sept. 6 and a gas-station armed robbery that occurred on Sept. 9. Police said a stolen white Mercedes-Benz C300 was connected to both crimes.

However, in the district attorney’s report, Dominguez was listed as a suspect only in the armed robbery of an Arco gas station on Quimby Road. The district attorney made no mention of Dominguez being suspected in the shooting.

The district attorney wrote that another man suspected of joining Dominguez in the gas station armed robbery, Andrew Anchondo, was suspected in the shooting.

In the district attorney’s report, prosecutors wrote that San Jose police spent more than one week pursuing Dominguez, who was reportedly an “active gang member and believed to be armed with a revolver.”

On Sept. 15, police located Dominguez driving a black Kia rental car near Brokaw Road and Junction Avenue and began to follow him, according to the DA’s report. During the police surveillance, Dominguez “engaged in counter-surveillance tactics such as driving on the shoulder, passing vehicles, stopping in the middle of the street, and making illegal U-turns,” according to the report.

When Dominguez reached North White Road, he came to a complete stop at the red light on

eastbound Penitencia Creek, according to the report. The officers who were following Dominguez boxed in the Kia, got out of their unmarked cars, took cover and pointed AR-15 rifles at him.

The district attorney wrote that the unmarked car directly behind the Kia had the red/blue emergency lights flashing through the entire encounter, and the officers were wearing tactical vests with SJPD patches.

The district attorney’s office wrote that it was “clear this was a law enforcement operation.”

Officer Michael Pina, a 12-year veteran of the force, told Dominguez – who was in the

front seat – “let me see your hands, (expletive),” according to the report.

“During the next 15 seconds, the officers gave Dominguez repeated warnings that if he didn’t put his hands up, ‘you’re gonna get shot,’ ” prosecutors wrote in the report. “Then, Dominguez suddenly lowered his hands and leaned forward.

“At that point, two of the officers began frantically yelling, ‘hands up’ with distinctly more urgency for an additional three seconds, after which time Officer Pina fired two shots at Dominguez, striking him once and killing him.”

Prosecutors wrote that the officers ordered Dominguez to keep his hands up for a total of

18 seconds before the two shots were fired.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Suit filed in San Jose police shooting of unarmed man

Suit filed in San Jose police shooting of unarmed man Crime and Public Safety | San Jose: Deadly police shooting followed cat-and-mouse pursuit

San Jose: Deadly police shooting followed cat-and-mouse pursuit Crime and Public Safety | Man shot by cop in San Jose was ‘known to be armed,’ police say In Pina’s witness statement, the officer told prosecutors that at that moment Dominguez dropped his hands and leaned forward, he “believed Dominguez was retrieving a gun to shoot him” or one of the other officers.

Pina’s body-worn camera was not activated during the shooting, according to the report.

An autopsy showed that Dominguez was high on both methamphetamines and PCP, according to the district attorney report. Prosecutors also released video of the shooting captured on one officer’s body-worn camera.

Following Dominguez’s death, family members said he was fighting a drug addiction and trying to put his criminal past behind him. They said Dominguez was living in a Christian men’s home in San Jose called The Homes of a Loving Father.