Joyce Crawford Hawthorne's family claims that Roanoke County police officer Timothy VanMarter was recklessly disregarding his training when his cruiser crashed into the SUV she was driving.

"This case is about no emergency lights, no emergency sirens and no warning," said Paul Thomson, attorney for Hawthorne's estate. If VanMarter had had his lights and siren on, he said, Hawthorne would be alive.

VanMarter maintains he didn't see Hawthorne pull out of her boyfriend's driveway because he was reaching down to turn on his lights and siren as he pursued a speeder.

"This is a case about second-guessing a police officer," said VanMarter's attorney, Jim Guynn.

The two sides outlined their points of view for a seven-member jury Tuesday as the trial began in a $10 million lawsuit filed over Hawthorne's death on June 10, 2005, and a $1 million lawsuit filed by her boyfriend, who owned the SUV and was injured in the crash. The trial is scheduled to end Friday.

Hawthorne, 48, was driving Kevin Guthrie's Ford Expedition the night of the crash, with Guthrie in the passenger seat.

Hawthorne's daughter, Hannah Hawthorne, 16, now lives with her father, Paxton Hawthorne, executor of his ex-wife's estate.

As the trial started, Joyce Hawthorne's boyfriend and ex-husband sat side by side.

Both men face an uphill battle to collect any damages. Because VanMarter is a government employee, under Virginia law the plaintiffs have to prove that he committed gross negligence, meaning he failed to use even the slightest care during the crash or the events that led to it.

The plaintiffs played a video of an interview with VanMarter, who then took the stand.

VanMarter said he started his shift that night at Cave High Spring High School by gassing up the cruiser he had been assigned, which wasn't his usual vehicle. He was headed north on Chaparral Drive when a speeder passed him going south at 63 mph. The speed limit was 25 mph.

VanMarter made a U-turn at Poff Lane and sped up to chase the speeder, whom he'd lost sight of. He said he planned to turn on his lights and siren as he came around the curve just north of the high school.

He said he reached for the switches, missed, looked down to find them, looked up and saw Guthrie's SUV as it crossed the road to turn north. He had no time to stop but hit the brakes and tried to swerve, he said.

In his opening statement, Thomson spoke skeptically about VanMarter's version of events, specifically whether he ever tried to turn on his lights and siren. "Probably that's been the story he's come up with," Thomson said.

VanMarter said under cross examination that he did not know how fast he was going at the time of the crash. Guynn said in his opening statements a skid mark at the scene proved VanMarter did hit his brakes.

The lawsuits had named Roanoke County Police Chief Ray Lavinder as a defendant, but he has since been dropped.

A similar Roanoke County case ended in February 2005 with jurors deciding in favor of the officer.

On Feb. 23, 2002, Vinton police officer John Randolph Munsey was accelerating without his cruiser's emergency lights on in pursuit of a speeder when Audrey Bryant St. Clair turned across his path to get to her driveway. The 72-year-old woman and her sister, Mary Onita Bryant, 67, died from the wreck.

Bryant's estate took Munsey to court but lost the jury trial. Guynn defended Munsey in that case.