HENDERSON, N.C. — A fatal shooting in Henderson on Monday began when a state trooper pulled over a motorist for what he thought was a simple violation.

Before long, the stop turned into a struggle between the two men, then a shooting.

The car the motorist was driving had been stolen, and the motorist was killed afer being shot by the trooper.

The incident happened on Vicksboro road just outside Henderson, in Vance County.

The trooper involved, identified as H.B. Stevens, is based out of the Henderson office of the State Highway Patrol. The man he shot and killed was identified as 23-year-old Norman Randolph Dove, Jr., of Newport News, Va.

Dove was paroled last July from the North Carolina Department of Correction for armed robbery in Camden County.

According to the State Highway Patrol, Monday's incident began when Stevens, a rookie with only a year on the patrol, pulled over Dove, who was driving a Mazda, for not wearing his seatbelt.

Stevens brought Dove back to his patrol car and did a records check. He quickly found out that Dove had a suspended license in Virginia and that the Mazda was stolen from Hampton, Va.

The two men then reportedly got into a confrontation of some sort.

"The trooper was attempting to place the suspect under arrest," said trooper Sgt. Wade Bulloch. "It concluded with that trooper shooting that suspect."

Dove was taken to Maria Parham Hospital in Henderson. He was declared dead at the hospital after being shot multiple times.

Stevens injured his thumb in the confrontation.

According to the SHP spokesman, "there were several different struggles."

The men reportedly scuffled at the patrol car, at the suspect's vehicle, in the street and back at the patrol car again.

The State Bureau of Investigation, which investigates all shootings by law enforcement officers, was at the scene collecting evidence most of Monday night. Stevens will be placed on administrative leave.

Dove had been convicted of robbery with a dangerous weapon in December 1997 and wassentenced to nearly six years in prison. He was released July 19, according to the N.C. Department of Correction.