Authorities on Sunday identified the two people who died in an apparent murder-suicide at a South Side house and who were found after a standoff with Richmond police in which two officers were hit by gunfire.

Clarence Friend Taylor II, 38, and Christine Mae Squire, 33, both of Richmond, were found dead by tactical officers after they entered the couple’s beige-and-brown ranch-style house in the 3900 block of Rusk Avenue about 7 p.m. Saturday.

Police said evidence suggests Taylor shot Squire, exchanged fire with police and then shot himself.

Investigators were looking into the possibility that Squire was killed before Saturday. They were also investigating a report that Taylor showed up Friday evening at the Satellite Restaurant on Jefferson Davis Highway and tried to get in.

J. Lee, a manager at the Satellite, said a man arrived at the restaurant Friday night and tried to enter, but the off-duty Richmond sheriff’s deputies who were working security there would not let him in. Lee said they mentioned the man had a red substance on him.

“He wasn’t presentable, so they just turned him away,” Lee said.

Lee added that a police detective called him Saturday and asked about the incident.

The officers injured Saturday were treated for non-life-threatening gunshot wounds and released from VCU Medical Center.

Police spokesman Gene Lepley said the officers’ names would not immediately be made public because they are part of the continuing investigation of the incident.

Lepley said police believe the last time a Richmond officer was wounded by gunfire was nearly 10 years ago, on July 30, 2003.

“Detectives are treating the case as a probable murder-suicide,” police, in a written statement, said of the shootings Saturday.

“Although it is early in their investigation, the evidence indicates Taylor shot Squire; then, after exchanging gunfire with officers who entered the building to check on her welfare, turned the gun on himself.”

Charlie Moore, who lives next door, said he had no idea anything was wrong until police cars swarmed through the neighborhood, a short distance from Walmsley Boulevard and Thomas C. Boushall Middle School, about 1:30 p.m. Saturday.

Neighbors were ordered from their homes, and officers, some of them heavily armed, crouched behind automobiles and the exterior walls of surrounding houses.

Moore, a supervisor for a door manufacturer, said he counted about 13 gunshots.

Moore and another resident, Doc White, said three children lived with Taylor and Squire — two teenage girls and a young boy. Moore said he believed that the children were Squire’s.

Lepley could not comment on the children or their whereabouts.

White, an Australian expatriate who builds neon and electric signs, moved a week ago to a red brick house across the street. He said there had been no indications of trouble ahead of the shootings.

“Everything seemed to be perfectly normal the night before,” White said.

Until about noon Sunday, the lot on which the house stands was cordoned off with yellow-and-black tape emblazoned, “Police Line Do Not Cross.” Parked outside the house were two police cruisers and an unmarked sedan.

Three forensics officers in gray polo shirts, black cargo trousers and black rubber gloves were seen leaving the house, where a child’s shiny, red bicycle was propped against the façade.

“It’s a laid-back, quiet neighborhood,” said Moore, who moved to Rusk Avenue with his fiancée about a year ago. “Everybody gets along. Everybody looks out for each other.”

(804) 649-6814

Staff writer Reed Williams contributed

to this report.