The troubled son of former state Sen. R. Edward Houck, D-Spotsylvania, took his own life Tuesday after police said he fatally shot the boyfriend of his estranged wife during a confrontation at a Caroline County motel.

Authorities said Todd T. Houck, 36, of Spotsylvania confronted the woman and her boyfriend at a motel in Bowling Green about 8 a.m.

Officials said Houck fatally shot the boyfriend, Jeremy Gift, 36, of Stafford County, then abducted his 34-year-old estranged wife and fled north on Interstate 95

Responding to a 911 call at the Relax Inn at 18000 A.P. Hill Blvd., Caroline police saw an SUV pull out of the parking lot and gave chase. Virginia State Police picked up the pursuit on I-95 north.

After 30 miles, Houck’s vehicle came to a stop and struck a state police cruiser near mile marker 124 about 8:38 a.m. Authorities said they heard a shot fired inside the vehicle and found Houck dead of an apparently self-inflicted wound.

The woman was not harmed. Caroline County Sheriff Tony Lippa said her name was being withheld because she was a victim of an abduction.

“It’s a tragedy to all the families and we’ve got more victims — the family members,” Lippa said.

The elder Houck served in the Virginia Senate from 1984 to 2012, ending his public service after he was defeated in 2011 by Republican Bryce E. Reeves.

“I just can’t imagine the agony that the Houcks are going through,” said Senate Minority Leader Richard L. Saslaw, D-Fairfax, a friend of Edd Houck’s who served with him in the Senate.

“My heart goes out to those two.”

The younger Houck had a lengthy criminal record, and the senator previously noted that his son had a history of mental illness.

Todd Houck’s record in Fredericksburg Circuit Court includes an Aug. 3 guilty plea to a charge of grand larceny and a 2007 guilty plea to a charge of attempting to possess morphine.

In Spotsylvania Circuit Court, his record includes guilty pleas in 2000 to charges of marijuana possession and grand larceny, and in 2008 and 2010 to charges of possession of a controlled substance.

In May 1999, Todd Houck was held in the Henrico County jail after surrendering following a nearly 12-hour standoff with Richmond police.

The elder Houck, in a 1999 statement after his son was taken into custody, said, “We thank God that no one was hurt or injured. ... In view of our son’s long history of mental illness, it is our hope and wish that appropriate treatment can now begin.”

Richmond Jail authorities said at the time that the younger Houck was wanted in Spotsylvania County on charges of breaking and entering, grand larceny, stalking and making a threatening call.

The 1999 standoff began when city police went to Houck’s Kingly Ones apartment at 3325 Cofer Road in South Richmond to arrest him on the Spotsylvania charges.

Houck barricaded himself in the apartment. Early in the standoff, he called the Spotsylvania Sheriff’s Office and threatened to harm himself, according to police broadcasts.

But he emerged from the apartment unharmed at 4:50 a.m. after a Richmond police SWAT team discharged tear gas into the apartment.

In March 1998, Todd Houck, then 18, pleaded guilty to five misdemeanors in Spotsylvania, including marijuana possession.

The special prosecutor dropped an abduction charge and reduced a sodomy charge to contributing to the delinquency of a minor. They stemmed from an incident involving a 14-year-old girl.