Police said a love triangle turned deadly Thursday when a man held his estranged wife hostage after fatally shooting another man she was with.

After leading troopers on a chase,they say the suspect, 58-year-old Mack Brinkley, was later shot and killed in Atoka County while holding a loaded gun to his wife's head.

It all began when police responded to reports of shots fired at Brinkley’s home Thursday. Police said they then found 51-year-old Jackie Lewis Allen dead in the grass from a gunshot wound to the head in front of the house.

Police said Brinkley shot and killed Allen after an ongoing fight over Brinkley's wife.

Moments after the shooting in Choctaw County, Durant troopers were called to be on the lookout for Brinkely in his truck, with a female hostage.

"Troopers spotted the vehicle and the pursuit ensued at that point,"

Oklahoma Highway Patrol captain Paul Timmons said.

Choctaw County Sheriff Terry Park said that female hostage turned out to be Brinkley's estranged wife.

Oklahoma troopers said around 2 p.m., they spotted Brinkley's truck on Highway 3 in Atoka County and chased him down a dirt road, about six miles south of Lane.

Oklahoma Highway Patrol Captain Paul Timmons said that chase came to an end when they saw Brinkley holding a loaded gun.

"It's my understanding that he had it pointed at the victim's head, and the trooper felt like he was about to fire at the victim or the hostage," Timmons said.

Timmons said troopers took action.

"They fired rounds as they were at the end of this road and the suspect is deceased at this time," Timmons said.

Brinkley was killed on the scene. His wife was not hurt and no troopers were injured.

"I'm sure it was a scary situation for all those involved, but our hostage was rescued is going to be fine," Timmons said.

Court records show that Brinkley's wife requested and was granted a protective order in December and it was dismissed in June.

Neighbors said both Brinkley's wife and Allen were on Brinkley's property Thursday.

Court records show Brinkley had just filed for divorce and has been arrested for kidnapping and domestic abuse in the past.

A friend of Brinkley's said things could have played out differently.

"He was forced into this, they just keep coming and taking stuff when he was gone, they think he wasn't in bad shape about it, but he was, it just tore him apart," neighbor James Ronald Marshall said.

Both investigations are still ongoing.