A possible hostage was injured. No deputies were injured, according to the Hernando County Sheriff’s Office.

HERNANDO COUNTY – A bank robbery suspect is dead after Hernando sheriff’s deputies chased him and shot him.

Scott Michael Chamberlain, 44, died at a hospital of injuries suffered in the shooting. Shamere Baugh, a possible hostage, was treated by Hernando Fire and Rescue. No deputies were injured.

Deputies were called to Capital City Bank, 14001 Cortez Blvd. in Brooksville, about 10:49 a.m. Friday (Sept. 22) for a report of a bank robbery. There were also reports of a possible hostage.

About 11:16 a.m., deputies spotted the suspect’s truck in an area behind Bayfront Health Brooksville hospital.

The driver, later identified as Chamberlain, fled and led deputies on a chase east on Cortez Boulevard, north on Cobb Road and then east onto Fort Dade Avenue. During the chase Chamberlain

rammed several patrol vehicles.

Shortly before 11:30 a.m., Chamberlain turned south on to U.S. 98, which shortly thereafter merged into Broad Street.

Chamberlain’s truck became inoperable just north of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard where deputies found Chamberlain. During this encounter, several deputies fired their weapons.

Chamberlain was taken to a local hospital where he was later pronounced dead as a result of his injuries.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is handling the investigation, which is standard protocol. In deputy-involved shooting investigations, the FDLE works with the State Attorney’s Office to determine whether the use of force is justified. The Hernando County Sheriff’s Office will also investigate the incident internally to make sure agency policy and law enforcement best practices were followed.

The names of the officers involved in Friday’s deputy-involved shooting are identified as:

Detective Willard Stephens, 43, fired a less lethal bean bag round, which was ineffective. Stephens has been employed by the Hernando sheriff since April 26, 2004.

Lt. Phil Lakin, 51, has been with the sheriff’s office since Dec. 2, 2012.

Sgt. Scott Lamia, 41, has been employed by the sheriff’s office since Jan. 20, 1998.

Detective Richard Purchase, 36, has been with the Hernando sheriff since July 12, 2004.

Detective Kim Burger, 45, who has worked with the Hernando sheriff since Sept. 24, 2000.

Deputy Roy McLaughlin, 40, who has been at the Hernando Sheriff’s Office since Aug. 11, 2014.

Deputy Richard Killingsworth, 27, has been employed by the Hernando sheriff since Oct. 20, 2013.

For information about the Hernando sheriff, go to hernandosheriff.org.

Hernando Sheriff | Deputy-Involved Shooting | Crime | Bank Robbery | Tampabay News | TB Reporter

#HernandoSheriff #DeputyInvolvedShooting #Crime #BankRobbery #TampabayNews #TBReporter