Three Mesa police officers were cleared of any criminal charges in the fatal shooting of a 28-year-old U.S. Army veteran in September, according to the Maricopa County Attorney's Office.

Officers Robert Ravago, Shawn Kurian and Katrina Teer, who fired their firearms, killing Scott Farnsworth, will not be charged in the shooting, said Amanda Jacinto, a County Attorney spokeswoman.

The office reviews police shootings in Maricopa County to determine if an officer's use of deadly force was permissible under state law. The information on the Farnsworth shooting was released Friday.

REPORT:Mesa police fired bean bags, used dog after officers fatally shot man

On the night of Sept. 22, Mesa police responded to a report of a man waving or pointing a gun at people near Skyline High School, on Crismon Road near Southern Avenue. A football game had just ended at the school.

According to a police report, which Farnsworth's mother let The Arizona Republic review, Farnsworth pointed a handgun at officers after they had told him to drop the weapon.

The three officers in total fired at least 11 times, based on the casings investigators collected from Kurian's AR-15 rifle and the Glocks used by Teer and Ravago, the report says.

After the shooting, Teer and a fourth officer fired bean bags at Farnsworth, the report says. Then, a K9 officer released his dog, named Cash, to bite Farnsworth as he lay unresponsive on the ground, the police report says.

MORE:Man killed by Mesa police identified

Officers, who later arrived and witnessed the bean bag shooting and the dog said the measures were necessary because he could have been a threat since it appeared he was still holding the handgun and it was not clear that he was dead, according to the report.

"He had been waving a gun prior to officers arriving on scene, he did something with the gun to provoke an officer-involved shooting, and he was still holding the gun," Officer Scott Callender wrote in his report. "I considered the subject was down and incapacitated, but I also had to consider the male was just being non-compliant and waiting to ambush officers who approached him."

Victim sought help for PTSD

Even though the County Attorney's office has cleared the officers, Pat Farnsworth, the mother of Scott Farnsworth, said she has consulted with a lawyer to determine if she has grounds to sue the Mesa Police Department for excessive force.

"That's not going to stop me," she recently said.

She has said she doesn't understand why police officers had to continue to use force after they had already shot her son 11 times.

Detective Nik Rasheta, a spokesman for Mesa police, has said the shooting was captured on the officers on-body cameras. But as of Monday, the footage and other documents related to the shooting were not publicly released.

On Monday, Rasheta said the department was waiting for confirmation of the County Attorney's decision before he could release the footage and other related material to the shooting.

Scott Farnsworth's ex-wife, Stephanie Hamilton, told The Republic after the shooting that Farnsworth had sought help to treat his PTSD.

Farnsworth, who served one tour in Iraq with the Army, had a service dog named Roper that helped him cope with his symptoms, according to a letter attached to the divorce case and written by a Veteran Affairs nurse practitioner in February 2014.

His PTSD was aggravated by an injury he suffered in Iraq, according to the divorce records.

Farnsworth grew up with his sister and mother in New Hampshire before moving to Arizona in 2002, the mother said. After graduating from Higley High School in Gilbert he joined the Army in 2008. He was discharged in 2014, Pat Farnsworth said.

"I cry every day since the shooting because he makes it through war and he's killed by a brother in blue," she said.

READ MORE:

Nail-salon murder suspect killed by police in Mesa

Glendale officer seriously wounded in shooting; suspect dead

Phoenix police ID trespassing suspect fatally shot by officer

Phoenix-area officers kill 3 within 2 hours Friday morning