Popular college freshman, 18, falls to his death from fifth-floor balcony 'after trying to hide from police during drunken party'

Xavier Somerville graduated from Lawrence Central high School, where he was homecoming king

Received a bid to pledge for Sigma Chi fraternity at Purdue University shortly before his death

Was on probation for drunken-driving incident that happened in April



Tragic: Xavier Somerville, right, a freshman at Purdue University, has died after falling from a fifth-floor balcony during a rowdy party

The life of an 18-year-old Indianapolis college freshman came to a tragic end on Monday when he plummeted to his death from a fifth-floor balcony trying to evade police during a rowdy party, according to police.

The Marion County Coroner's Office confirmed the death of Xavier Somerville, who graduated from Lawrence Central High School just a few months ago and was enrolled at Purdue University.



Police officers investigating a noise complaint in an apartment building near the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis campus discovered a party where minors were drinking alcohol.



Witnesses told police that Somerville was scared and tried to escape so as not to get in trouble with the law, but ended up falling off the balcony, according to Fox59 .

Officers were dispatched at 3am to The Avenue Apartments near West 10th Street and University Boulevard. Upon arrival, they heard loud music and noise coming from a fifth-story unit.



According to a police report, a frantic guest at the party met police at the door, saying that Somerville had just fallen from the balcony.



The responding officer went to the first floor and found Somerville sprawled on the sidewalk unconscious and bleeding.

Popular: Somerville, fourth from left, graduated from Lawrence Central High School, where he played soccer and was homecoming king

Witnesses told police the 18-year-old got alarmed when he heard officers at the door and tried to swing from the fifth floor down to the floor below, but lost his grip on the bannister and fell.

The freshman was rushed to Wishard Hospital, where he died from his injuries a short time later.



Six people at the party were cited for alcohol-related violations, including 22-year-old Benjamin Trester, who was ticketed for contributing to the delinquency of a minor.



Five other people under the age of 21 were cited for possession of alcohol by a minor.

However, Somerville’s mother, Vicke, does not believe that her son was among the people consuming alcohol at the party because he had gotten in trouble for underage drinking in the past and was aware what would happen if he were to get caught again, according to the Indianapolis Star.

Party scene: Officers were dispatched to The Avenue Apartments in Indianapolis after receiving a complaint about loud music and noise

Deadly fall: Witnesses say Somerville tried to swing from the fifth-story balcony to the fourth in an effort to escape police, but lost his grip and plummeted to his death

Somerville had pleaded guilty to a DWI charge in July in connection to his arrest in April. A Marion Superior Court clerk said that his 365-day sentence was suspended and Somerville was placed on probation.

Under the conditions of his probation, Somerville was required to submit to random testing.



‘He knew he had to call in every evening and submit to random urine samples,’ his mother told the paper. ‘He knew that — I know he didn't fall because he was intoxicated.’



According to Vicke Somerville, her son tried to escape not because he violated his probation by consuming alcohol, but rather because he was afraid to be spotted at a party where other minors were imbibing.



Vigil: About 60 of Somerville's friends gathered outside the building where he died to remember the 18-year-old

On Monday night, about 60 of Somerville’s friends and classmates came together for an emotional candlelight vigil in his honor.

Devastated: Mourners described Somerville as a selfless and outgoing teen who was always smiling

Mourners remembered the popular teen, who was a homecoming king in high school and an avid soccer payer, as an outgoing and selfless person who always had a smile on his face.



‘He was a genuine person,’ Sahar Habibi, a longtime friend, told RTV6 . ‘Everyone loved him and he loved everyone.’

‘[He was] the most energetic and alive person I've ever met. It would rub off on anyone he was with,’ said Clayton LaBarr, who had known the victim since they were children.



Just before his death, Somerville received a bid to pledge Sigma Chi fraternity.



‘We lost a great person and a great future brother,’ said Sigma Chi President Mark Back. ‘He was one of the most impressive freshmen we met this year during the process and he was well respected and liked by our chapter.’



Purdue University spokeswoman Jeanne Norberg released a statement to RTV6 following Somerville’s death which read: ‘Our hearts go out to Xavier's family and friends. A promising future has been cut short, (and this is) a tragedy for all of us.’