A 32-year-old man suspected of drunken driving was killed in a high-speed police chase early Monday morning in Henry County.

Jeffrey Dean Deskins of Martinsville died after his van rammed the back of a sheriff's deputy's cruiser and plummeted off a bridge along the U.S. 58 bypass east of the Martinsville Speedway, authorities said.

Lt. Lane Perry of the Henry County Sheriff's Office said his deputies handled the chase in a "textbook" fashion. But Deskins' uncle, Earl Deskins, said that authorities unnecessarily risked lives by chasing at high speeds a man they believed was driving drunk.

"They could have got his tag number and found out who did it," said Earl Deskins. "Chasing people like that ... you endanger not only them, but other people on the road."

Jeffrey Deskins' wife, Anna, said her husband had consumed about eight beers at their home, then decided to go for a drive about 12:30 a.m.

"I tried to stop him," she said.

Authorities responded about 1 a.m. to a Kroger store off U.S. 220 for a report of a drunken driver, Perry said.

Deputy David Arrington arrived and left his vehicle to approach a 1987 Toyota van, but the van sped away.

The van led deputies and Virginia State Police on a roughly 10-mile chase along Greensboro Road and ultimately onto the U.S. 58 bypass, Perry said.

In an attempt to stop the van in the eastbound lanes of the bypass, Deputy Walter Hairston pulled his cruiser in front of the fleeing van and started slowing down, using a tactic Perry called a "running roadblock."

Perry said that the van twice rammed the back of the cruiser, causing it to spin out. The van then hopped a retaining wall near Virginia 650 and fell a "pretty extensive distance" off the bridge, the lieutenant said.

Deskins was pronounced dead later at Memorial Hospital of Martinsville-Henry County. No deputies were injured. Perry said speeds exceeded 65 mph during the chase, but he would not provide the maximum speed because of an ongoing investigation by state police.

"My personal judgment, I don't think they got as high as some pursuits get, and it was late at night, no traffic whatsoever," Perry said.

None of the deputies has been placed on leave while the incident is under investigation.

"It comes a point in a pursuit like that where we have to make efforts to get the vehicle to stop," Perry said.

Deskins' family members described him as a good man and a good father who drank too much and was coping with the death of his mother in December.

"He was a great father," his wife said. "He had some drinking problems, and that's what wound up taking his life."