Chase suspect charged in deaths By Karen Rouse

Denver Post Staff Writer May 30 - LAKEWOOD - A 19-year-old Arvada man who led a sheriff's deputy on an early morning high-speed chase along West Colfax Avenue was charged with vehicular homicide Monday after he struck and killed two people on a motorcycle, police said. The victims, Daniel Fields Jr., 24, and Amanda Jo Phelps, 21, died at the scene. Both were from Pueblo, Lakewood police spokeswoman Ramonna R. Robinson said. Kenneth Roybal, who police said was traveling faster than 100 mph when he struck the rear of the motorcycle, also was charged with felony eluding. He was booked at the Lakewood Police Department and was being held in the Jefferson County Jail on $11,000 bond, Robinson said. Roybal didn't have permission to drive the gold Saturn involved in the chase and accident, which is owned by an acquaintance of his, Robinson said. The crash occurred shortly after 1 a.m. Monday at Colfax and Wadsworth Boulevard. Authorities said Jefferson County Deputy Gordon Roe had witnessed Roybal traveling 76 mph in a 30-mph zone in the gold Saturn. When Roe tried to stop the vehicle, Roybal fled west on Eighth Avenue, north on Indiana Street and east on Colfax at speeds greater than 100 mph, Robinson said. At Wadsworth and Colfax, Robinson said, the Saturn struck the motorcycle while trying to squeeze between it and another vehicle. A minor who was in the car with Roybal was released and is being treated as a witness, Robinson said. His name was not disclosed. Police do not suspect drug or alcohol use, she said. Another motorcyclist, an acquaintance of the victims, was hit with flying debris and taken to Centura St. Anthony Central Hospital, Robinson said. His name also was not released. A misdemeanor warrant for failure to appear on a harassment charge had been out for Roybal, according to a Jefferson County Jail official. Fields' mother said Monday she was numb from the news. "I didn't think this could happen," Darlene Fields, 46, said. She also questioned the deputy's pursuit of Roybal. "I don't think they needed to be chasing the guy," she said. "If they weren't chasing him, the guy might not have hit the kids." Fields said she always worried about her son riding a motorcycle, but "he was a safe driver." Information on Roe was not available Monday. Steve Davis, spokesman for the Jefferson County Sheriff's Office, said the "sheriff's office will conduct its own internal investigation for the purpose of reviewing policies and procedures to see if things went the way they should have." Such an investigation normally takes 10 to 14 days, he said. Roe was not injured in the wreck. Copyright 2000 The Denver Post. All rights reserved.

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Return to top

Area departments have policies on pursuing a fleeing suspect It's a problem metro-area police face every day: Should they engage in high-speed pursuits? Last year, when a 9-year-old Arvada girl was killed during a police pursuit of a stolen vehicle, the criticism and questions began early. In most departments, patrol officers decide when to pursue a fleeing suspect based on guidelines that include: What crime may the suspect have committed? Is the criminal armed, dangerous or violent? Are the roadways crowded? Is weather a factor? How reckless is the fleeing driver? Besides relying on guidelines and policy, officers should use common sense, the agencies say. If a felony suspect is involved, especially those considered to be a public threat, it's more likely a pursuit will start and continue. Nationally, fatalities from police pursuits increased from 307 in 1991 to 388 in 1995, according to the most recent statistics from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Police pursuits have been banned in Baltimore, Minneapolis and Columbus, Ohio.



