SANTA ANA – A 43-year-old man was killed and his 9-year-old daughter critically injured when their car crashed into a utility pole and wall during a police pursuit late Sunday, July 23.

Police found $13,000 in cash, half a pound of drugs and a gun in the vehicle, they said.

Santa Ana Police investigate after a male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

A damaged wall and power pole after a male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

Orange County Fire Authority work to free a 9-year-old girl after a male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

Orange County Fire Authority investigate after a male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

A male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

A 9-year-old girl is transported to the hospital after a male was killed and a 9-year-old girl was injured following a crash at the end of a high speed pursuit around 10:15 p.m. in Santa Ana on Sunday, July 23, 2017. (Photo by Kevin Warn, Contributing Photographer)

Officers keep traffic away from the scene where a 43-year-old man was killed and his 9-year-old daughter was critically injured when their car crashed into a utility pole during a police pursuit in Santa Ana on Sunday night. Police found $13,000 in cash, half a pound of drugs and a gun in the vehicle. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)

A block wall and a power pole are broken where a 43-year-old man was killed and his 9-year-old daughter was critically injured when their car crashed into a utility pole during a police pursuit in Santa Ana on Sunday night. Police found $13,000 in cash, half a pound of drugs and a gun in the vehicle. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)

A broken block wall and a power pole lay where a 43-year-old man was killed and his 9-year-old daughter was critically injured when their car crashed into a utility pole during a police pursuit in Santa Ana on Sunday night. Police found $13,000 in cash, half a pound of drugs and a gun in the vehicle. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)

The chase began after officers got a call of a man pointing a gun at a security guard during a fight at Hector’s Mariscos on McFadden and Standard avenues, said Cpl. Anthony Bertagna of the Santa Ana Police Department. The caller gave police a description of the suspect’s vehicle that fled at about 10:20 p.m.

Officers saw the car traveling south on Grand Avenue from Edinger Avenue, police said. They tried to stop the driver, but he turned off the car’s lights and kept going.

The suspect ended up going upward of 85 mph, said police, who lost sight of the car near Warner Avenue and Bristol Street but then discovered that it had crashed into a power pole and a wall in the 1800 block of West Warner.

Officers found the driver dead and his 9-year-old daughter trapped in the back seat. He was identified as Juan Rodriguez of Costa Mesa.

“It took (the Orange County Fire Authority) 30 minutes to cut the girl from the car while there were live wires from the power pole,” Bertagna said.

She was taken to Children’s Hospital of Orange County, where she was in critical condition.