SHARE

By Don Jacobs of the Knoxville News Sentinel

A 52-year-old Florida man killed himself in his car after an 80-minute standoff with Sevierville officers.

Kyle Loy Morrow was found dead about 1:40 p.m. Sunday in a burgundy Toyota Camry by officers who approached the car after evacuating nearby homes, according to Bob Stahlke, spokesman for Sevierville.

Sevierville authorities first learned of Morrow when contacted about noon Sunday by the Yancey County, N.C., Sheriff’s Office, Stahlke said.

North Carolina authorities told Sevierville police Morrow had informed a female acquaintance he had “a handgun, was going to commit suicide and if law enforcement officers became involved he would shoot them,” Stahlke wrote in a news release.

Morrow had been listed in Florida as missing and endangered. As a felon, Morrow was not supposed to have a firearm, Stahlke said.

North Carolina authorities informed Sevierville that Morrow was near a Motel 6, 3385 Winfield Dunn Parkway.

At 12:18 p.m., Stahlke said, officers encountered the Camry driven by Morrow on Winfield Dunn Parkway near an Advance Auto Parts store and tried to stop it. Morrow, however, turned onto Huffaker Road and stopped shortly after just outside the city limits at the intersection with Grandview Drive.

Morrow did not respond to officers and the Emergency Response Team for the Sevierville Police Department was activated, Stahlke said.

“The area was secured and officers evacuated several nearby homes as a safety precaution,” Stahlke said.

Officers continued to try to communicate with Morrow using a cellphone and loudspeaker, Stahlke said, but got no response.

“Due to the window tinting on his vehicle, officers were only able to see that Mr. Morrow was sitting in the driver’s seat,” Stahlke said.

When officers entered the Camry at 1:40 p.m., they found Morrow dead from a gunshot.

“It appeared that Mr. Morrow had shot himself at some point early in the incident, prior to ERT members approaching the vehicle to make entry,” Stahlke said.

The Sevierville Police Department and Sevier County Sheriff’s Office are investigating the death.

More details as they develop online and in Tuesday’s News Sentinel.