BROOKSVILLE — State officials have cleared the Hernando County Sheriff's Office in the death of Anthony Wallace, a Spring Hill man deputies shot dead in September while trying to arrest him on charges of sexual battery of a child.

The State Attorney's Office this month concurred with the findings of a Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigation of the incident, saying "each of the deputies acted reasonably under the circumstances and therefore their actions were justified."

According to an autopsy report by the District 5 Medical Examiner's Office, Wallace, 44, was shot seven times, but only six bullets came from law enforcement. The seventh shot was fired by Wallace himself, into his chest near his heart, using a powerful gun he also fired at deputies, the report said.

Hernando deputies involved were Sgt. Will Power, Detective Brian Stephens and Sgt. Tom Brooks. Detective Roscoe Dobson of the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office and Officer Mike DiStefano of the Tampa Police Department — both members of the U.S. Marshals Service Florida Caribbean Regional Fugitive Task Force — also went to the scene at the request of Hernando Sheriff Al Nienhuis, who said it is typical for agencies to ask for backup when dealing with a violent subject.

On September 27, the day of Wallace's death, his teenage daughter told school officials that her father had been sexually abusing her for several months, according to the FLDE report. School officials notified the Sheriff's Office.

As detectives investigated, the daughter told them her father owned several firearms and had threatened to kill himself if she told of the abuse, the report said. Wallace's wife, who used a phone tracking device to locate Wallace for deputies, warned that he had a semi-automatic gun in the truck he was driving.

Deputies planned to arrest Wallace as he arrived home from work, so they sat outside in unmarked vehicles to wait for him, the report said. Instead of turning into his driveway at 651 Sea Holly Drive, in the Trillium subdivision north of County Line Road, Wallace kept driving.

"Law enforcement learned later that Wallace likely suspected that his daughter had disclosed the abuse because he knew his daughter had not arrived home from school, and school officials would not give him information about where she was," said a memorandum by the State Attorney's Office. "Additionally, Wallace probably noticed the unmarked police vehicles as he arrived home."

Wallace continued driving toward the neighborhood exit, ignoring police lights and sirens as law enforcement followed, the report said. Eventually, he stopped on the shoulder of Trillium Boulevard and began rummaging through his truck as deputies surrounded it with their vehicles.

That's when DiStefano said he saw Wallace holding a gun, later identified as a Spikes Tactical 300 Blackout pistol. Investigators described it as a long gun with a rifled barrel that shoots rifle rounds.

As DiStefano yelled "gun" and told Wallace to put the weapon down, the report said, Wallace fired a shot through his driver's side window toward the deputies.

"Detective Dobson felt glass pieces hit him. Detective Stephens felt something hit his hand. Another officer saw the butt of a firearm," the State Attorney's Office memorandum said. "Perceiving that they were being shot at, the officers returned fire."

Keep up with Tampa Bay’s top headlines Subscribe to our free DayStarter newsletter We’ll deliver the latest news and information you need to know every morning. Loading... You’re all signed up! Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Explore all your options

Combined, deputies fired 47 rounds, six of which struck Wallace. Wallace fired two rounds. The trajectory of the shot Wallace fired into his own chest was "from front to back, upward and slightly right to left, causing extensive damage to his heart," the State Attorney's Office said.

Nienhuis told the Tampa Bay Times Monday that despite Wallace's death, the Sheriff's Office continued investigating and confirmed the daughter's allegations through DNA testing. FDLE records show that Wallace had no prior arrests in Florida.

"The last thing we want to have to do is use deadly force, but some suspects put us in a position where we have no other option," the sheriff said. "We had a pretty good hunch, based off the scene, that our actions were justified, but it's always good for the deputies involved to have independent agencies saying so."

Contact Megan Reeves at mreeves@tampabay.com. Follow @mareevs.

><b><i>PREVIOUS COVERAGE:>Hernando sheriff names fugitive shot, killed during gunfire exchange with deputies>>

><b><i>RELATED COVERAGE:>State says Hernando deputies were 'justified' in September shooting death>>