One man is dead following a deputy-involved shooting in west Ouachita Parish on Monday afternoon and a second man is facing multiple charges.

An arrest affidavit filed in Fourth Judicial District Court on Tuesday indicates that the sheriff’s office Special Crimes Apprehension Team initiated a traffic stop on a Chrysler van around 5:36 p.m. at Louisiana 3033 and Guyton Road.

The warrant states deputies approached the vehicle --one on the driver’s side and one on the passenger's side. The driver reportedly would not comply with commands and attempted to drive away.

More:Duo left trail of stolen goods for officers to follow

When the deputy on the driver’s side attempted to reach inside and stop the vehicle, the warrant states the driver drove away until the deputy was able to stop the van.

Per the report, the deputy on the passenger side ran around the van to help and the passenger, later identified as William F. Underwood, 35, left the van and ran. The driver has been identified as Marquinton T. Brooks, 22, of Monroe.

Deputies attempted to use a stun gun on the driver with negative results. Per the warrant, the driver then pulled a gun from his waistband, and one of the deputies fired his duty weapon, hitting the driver who died from his injuries.

The Criminal Investigation Division of Louisiana State Police Troop F filed the warrant, which features a statement from a witness in the van that supports the account provided by deputies of the incident.

Per the report, the witness saw Underwood put a gun in his backpack before the traffic stop. The witness also said the driver refused to comply with commands and fought with deputies. They said the driver did grab a gun from his waistband before being shot.

According to the report, Underwood returned to the scene after the shooting, and he was taken into custody. A search of the suspect yielded a small amount of marijuana, methamphetamine and approximately one dozen bars of Alprazolam.

Underwood was booked into Ouachita Correctional Center early Tuesday on charges of illegal carrying of a weapon in the presence of narcotics, possession of a schedule II controlled dangerous substance, possession of a schedule I controlled dangerous substance and possession of a schedule IV narcotic with intent to produce, manufacture or distribute. Bond was set at $25,750.

An investigation into the shooting by Louisiana State Police remains ongoing, and the name of the driver of the vehicle is expected to be released Tuesday.

Follow Ashley Mott Reporter on Facebook for the latest news.