Jefferson City police shot and killed a man who reportedly confronted officers early Tuesday as they investigated a domestic disturbance.

The Jefferson City Police Department said its officers responded at 12:07 a.m. to the 300 block of East Dunklin Street to investigate a domestic disturbance in progress. A caller reported an unknown woman was asking police to be summoned due to threats of violence.

On arrival, officers were confronted by a male suspect believed to be involved in the disturbance. During that confrontation, officers shot the suspect, identified as John Loaiza Jr., 40, of Jefferson City.

When officers attempted to make contact with Loaiza, he threatened the officers, asking them "if they wanted to die," police officials said. Officers were forced to retreat, and Loaiza began to barricade a stairwell to prohibit officers from returning.

He also broke out a number of windows with a metal pipe, telling officers to shoot him. Shortly after, Loaiza emerged and charged at the officers, causing them to retreat into the street. He continued to advance on the officers, armed with the pipe, and the two officers shot Loaiza.

Loaiza was transferred to an area hospital by EMS, but was later pronounced dead at the hospital.

According to police reports and court records as recent as June, officers responded to a similar domestic dispute involving Loaiza wielding a knife and baseball bat and charging officers, threatening to shoot them if they returned his property in the 1100 block of Monroe Street. In that case, the victim had visible injuries and had been assaulted by Loaiza "at least 45 times" in the past. That instance ended with the Loaiza's arrest for felony charges of domestic violence, resisting arrest and unlawful use of a weapon.

He also was wanted on contempt of court charges, with a caution on the warrant for violent tendencies.

Police Chief Roger Schroeder requested the Missouri Highway Patrol investigate the shooting. Additionally, the department has an internal investigation into the incident underway, per department policy.

"While we are deeply saddened at the loss of life in this instance, our officers have had numerous calls involving the suspect, many of which revolve around serious threats toward police," a JCPD news release said.

The department said the officers involved, both white men, have served JCPD for eight years and three years respectively. Both are currently on paid administrative leave, pending the outcome of the investigation. Officials would not comment on whether the officers involved had ever had disciplinary action taken against them in the past.

When the administrative investigation is completed and reviewed by the police chief, it is forwarded to the city's Law Department for review, where the city attorney will document whether the shooting adheres to department regulations regarding use of lethal force.

The officers' division commander will review the completed administrative investigation to determine whether any violation of department regulations occurred, making a recommendation to the police chief for discipline or commendation.

The completed criminal investigation will be forwarded to the applicable Cole County Prosecuting Attorney's office for review. The prosecuting attorney will determine if any criminal action or further investigative action should be taken.

If an officer is found to have acted legally, justifiably and properly in the shooting incident, the officer will return to regular duty or special duty.

If an officer is found to have acted improperly and without legal justification in the shooting incident, the officer will either be suspended without pay pending the final outcome of any criminal proceedings, or may be terminated.