For the second time this year, a Roanoke police officer has shot and killed someone wielding a samurai-style sword.

John Harvey Bridges, 43, died shortly before 1 a.m. Thursday after he was shot in the torso in his apartment on Old Spanish Trail off Shenandoah Avenue in Northwest Roanoke, said Police Chief Joe Gaskins.

The chief's account of what happened in Wednesday evening's incident differs from that of Bridges' roommate, Ronald Ragland Jr., who said he witnessed the shooting.

Gaskins said that Bridges was shot while brandishing a sword and advancing on officers.

"That's a lie," said Ragland, who insists that Bridges had been standing still and had not fully unsheathed the 21-inch blade.

Bridges is the third person shot by Roanoke police this year, and the second to have died. City officers shot four people, one fatally, in 2006.

On Feb. 16, police fatally shot Geoffrey Stephenson, 30, as he approached officers with a sword and at least one gun, authorities said.

"I think any incident that results in a shooting is tremendously horrific -- something we absolutely don't want to do," Gaskins said Thursday, adding, "We sometimes don't have any choice."

Ragland, 46, who collects knives and samurai swords, said he has lived with Bridges for about four years in the two-bedroom unit at Ashton Hill Apartments.

Ragland said he fell asleep Wednesday on a faded blue couch in their living room and awoke when Bridges emerged noisily from a back hallway.

"He yelled something and he had blood on his hands and his face and his chest," Ragland recalled.

Bridges sat down on a brown reclining chair clutching two kitchen knives, Ragland said.

"He said, 'Aw, this isn't enough,' and then pointed two knives at his stomach ... but he didn't cut or anything," Ragland recalled.

Ragland summoned police about 6:20 p.m. and reported an attempted suicide.

According to the police account, Officers A.S. Puckett and K.L. Simcox arrived and a man with blood on his chest answered the door.

Police say the man was standing 5 or 6 feet from the officers when he brandished a sword, ignored commands to drop the weapon and advanced on officers while yelling, "Just kill me then." Puckett felled Bridges with one shot.

Ragland gave a different account. Stepping on a bloodstain on the beige carpet in his living room, he demonstrated how Bridges had grabbed Ragland's samurai sword from a wooden gun rack.

According to Ragland, an officer was standing in front of a bird cage containing the roommates' two pet parakeets when Bridges started to pull the sword from its scabbard. The officer told him to drop the sword, then fired an immediate shot, Ragland said.

"He didn't even have time to drop it," he said.

Bridges collapsed in a fetal position, his roommate said.

Ragland added that he never heard Bridges tell the officers to kill him.

Bridges was taken to Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospital, where he died.

Asked to respond to Ragland's version of events, Gaskins said that the result of the investigation was "absolutely preliminary."

But he added: "Even the photographs that we have show that the weapon was unsheathed."

Roanoke police are conducting a criminal investigation and an internal affairs inquiry into the incident.

Ragland said that he drank five or six stiff scotch and soda drinks between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m., but that the alcohol did not affect his recollection of the shooting.

"I know what I seen," Ragland said.

Ragland said Bridges had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and apparently had not been taking his medication.

Ragland said Bridges told him a few months ago that he had "taken a bunch of pills" a couple of days earlier.

"He was always saying that he thought he was ruining everybody else's life," Ragland said.

Bridges grew up in Callaway and attended Franklin County High School, Ragland said. At the time of his death he was unemployed and collecting disability payments.

Ragland said Bridges was fond of angels and enjoyed traveling. Angels adorn Bridges' bedroom as do pictures with the words "Faith," "Love," "Hope" and "Charity."

Puckett, who joined the Roanoke Police Department in 2004, and Simcox, who did so in 2005, both have been placed on administrative leave, as is routine.