A game warden has been charged in the death of a 16-year-old Greene County boy killed in January.

Robert Orrin Ham III, 25, was indicted Monday on a charge of voluntary manslaughter, a felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison.

Ham fatally shot Allen Michael Cochran on Jan. 24 during a traffic stop on U.S. 33 between Stanardsville and Ruckersville.

A Virginia State Police team spent four months investigating the case before passing its findings to Greene County Commonwealth's Attorney Ronald Morris.

The prosecutor brought that evidence before a grand jury Monday and offered several possible charges, including second-degree murder, he said.

The grand jury decided on a charge of voluntary manslaughter, alleging in an indictment that Ham did "unlawfully and feloniously, intentionally kill Allen Cochran while in the sudden heat of passion upon reasonable provocation or in mutual combat."

The indictment means Ham will be tried in Circuit Court; it's not a finding of guilt.

Just before 6 p.m. on the day of the shooting, Ham accompanied a deputy with the Greene County Sheriff's Office after receiving a report that Cochran had abducted his girlfriend.

In Virginia, game wardens are sworn law enforcement officers able to make arrests.

Authorities pulled Cochran over on U.S. 33 near the Woodridge subdivision, and Ham approached the vehicle to try and remove the girl, a game department spokeswoman said at the time.

Cochran accelerated the car, striking Ham and throwing him into the air, and the game warden got up and fired into the vehicle, killing Cochran, state authorities said in January.

Afterward, Cochran's family disputed the claim that he'd abducted his 15-year-old girlfriend, saying the two were running away together and that the shooting was unwarranted.

His mother said in January that Cochran took his aunt's car that day and picked up his girlfriend, and that the girl left a note for her parents saying she was willingly leaving with him.

"My opinion was that he was going to drop [her] off at a friend's house and go home," Danielle Ramirez said in January.

She declined to comment on the charge Tuesday afternoon.

State police have not discussed the findings of their investigation, and Morris declined to comment on the specifics of the incident Tuesday.

Cochran's family said in January that he was not armed at the time.

Col. Michael Bise, the chief of law enforcement for the game department, said Tuesday that he was "deeply disturbed" by the indictment.

"While we are not privy to the full state police investigation, our administrative review indicates officer Ham reacted appropriately to a real threat and in fact was injured by the actions of another in the carrying out of that threat," Bise said in a written statement.

Ham was placed on administrative duties after the shooting, and will remain assigned to those duties for the foreseeable future, Bise said.

"He's still employed. We have moved him completely to a non-law enforcement role," Bise said. "He won't be doing any law enforcement activity until this thing is fully resolved."

Ham's first court appearance will be Tuesday in Greene Circuit Court. He'll remain free until then and a judge will decide whether he'll be eligible to remain free on bond.

He could not be reached for comment.

This is the first time a Virginia game warden has been charged in a line-of-duty shooting, Bise said.

An outside prosecutor likely will be brought in to try the case, Morris said.