STUARTS DRAFT - There wasn't a hint of anger in John A. Lee's voice when he ordered neighbor Judy Cosgrove to lie on his bed.

His voice was steady and adamant.

She had been looking for her 6-year-old daughter Wednesday afternoon when Lee lured Cosgrove into his 169 Sherwood Drive home, claiming he knew where the girl was.

By the time she realized Lee had lied, she was already in the back bedroom.

A pornographic movie played on the television, and Lee clicked the lock on the bedroom door.

Lee did not force the issue when she refused to lie on the bed.

He even stepped aside as she unlocked the bedroom door and left.

Nearly seven hours later, Lee, a 45-year-old convicted violent sex offender, lay dead on his bathroom floor as a SWAT team swarmed his house. He shot himself with a high-powered rifle, reports the Augusta County Sheriff's Office.

John Cosgrove, Judy's husband and spokesman, attributes her escape to "the hand of God." She was too "distressed" to relive the event Thursday when approached at home for an interview, but her husband stepped in to supply her description of events.

"He never got a chance to get right with God," John Cosgrove sighed, making sure to do the interview out of earshot of his wife.

It's not clear whether Lee's suicide came as authorities first arrived at his Countryside subdivision, behind Stuarts Draft High School, or if it happened during the standoff with authorities.

He lived in his girlfriend's house - a single-story ranch with a "Welcome" sign by the front porch, a swing set in the back, and a white sports car and a dark pickup in the gravel driveway.

By Thursday morning, plywood covered the windows smashed when SWAT teams threw in tear gas and flash grenades.

Authorities evacuated the homes surrounding Lee's house and blared through a bullhorn into the night with pleas for him to surrender.

"Turn on your lights if you can hear us," went the static monotone. "Leave your gun inside. … Pick up your phone."

There was no reply.

Marie Cooper and her husband, who live two doors from Lee, had to watch much of the ordeal while parked down the street.

A sheriff's deputy warned that their house was "too close for a 'bad situation,' " Cooper said.

Most neighbors watching from behind the police cars blocking the streets knew bits of the story by the time darkness fell and SWAT teams had the spotlight aimed at Lee's house.

Lee once spent 5½ years in prison for attempted rape in Orange County. A judge in 1992 sentenced him to 10 years, but he earned an early release through parole, according to the Virginia Department of Corrections.

He would return to prison for a year and three months on a cocaine conviction in Orange County.

Lee happened to be in his front yard when Judy Cosgrove stopped watering her plants to look for 6-year-old daughter Jenna. The sandy-blond haired girl, with Down's syndrome, is quick to offer a stick of bubblegum, and moves out of sight like the wind.

Jenna had left the family's yard, but she then headed in the opposite direction from Lee's yard. Jenna's 9-year-old brother Jacob soon found her safe and sound. But when Judy yelled for the Jenna, it was Lee who responded.

Jenna was safe in his house, Lee said. The mother was too far inside the house by the time she realized it was a trap.

Once in the bedroom, Lee threatened her, according to John Cosgrove: " 'You're not leaving, you're going to get on the bed,' " Lee ordered.

" 'No, I'm not either. You're going to let me out of here,' " the terrified woman responded.

She fought the urge to run, and instead walked slowly home so that Lee wouldn't think she was going to call police. Otherwise, he might panic and attack, she thought.

Arriving deputies and police banged on Lee's front door at least twice, only to receive silence or false promises to come out as long as they didn't bust the door down.

One of the police on the scene was Mrs. Congrove's son.

Lee's girlfriend returned home shortly after authorities arrived.

She went inside, but he had locked himself in a bathroom, authorities report.

He told her that "he was a bad person," and threatened suicide with a rifle that he said was under his chin, according to a sheriff's office release. That was the last thing he said to anyone.

He then ordered her out of the house.

Contact Michael L. Owens at mowens@newsvirginian.com.