Justin Ryan Smith would have started his new job this week, and he was looking forward to the work at an auto body shop, his relatives said.

The 20-year-old car enthusiast and Forest resident was killed after he was hurled from his sport utility vehicle early Saturday morning -- making him the second person in three weeks to die from injuries suffered in a police chase in Bedford County.

Smith's family members were left to make funeral arrangements, and to ask themselves questions for which there would be few easy answers.

"I know they have a job to do, but I think at some point that they're endangering more people by chasing them than they are if they would just let them go," said Smith's mother, Ronda Smith. "I feel like they get an adrenaline rush off it."

Smith, who was convicted recently of driving under the influence and had a restricted license, his mother said, was not supposed to have been driving. Shortly before 1 a.m., authorities say they clocked him doing 64 mph in a 40 mph zone.

Ronda Smith said she believed her son, who loved hunting, fishing and four-wheeling, had been on his way home after four-wheeling at a friend's house.

The roughly eight-minute chase ended a quarter-mile from his home when his northbound 1997 Chevrolet Blazer ran off Great Oak Road and rolled three or four times, ejecting him, authorities said.

One of two deputies involved in the pursuit had lost sight of the car and had stopped speeding after it, Bedford County Sheriff Mike Brown said.

Brown, whose 17-year-old son was killed in a car wreck in 1997, said he understands Smith's family's sorrow and knows there is nothing he could say that could satisfy them.

"I know exactly what they're going through," the sheriff said.

Brown said his deputies don't enjoy car chases, adding that the deputies involved in Saturday's incident acted appropriately and followed department policy. The two recent fatal chases, he added, have prompted no policy changes.

"It's just luck of the draw, which is very bad luck," the sheriff said, referring to the timing of the two incidents. "We could go another 20 years without one."

The earlier crash took place June 8 after Stacy Adam Panter, 34, wrecked a motorcycle that had been traveling more than 100 mph, authorities said.

Panter died June 25 from related injuries.

Justin Smith, described by relatives as a happy-go-lucky guy who enjoyed the outdoors, graduated in 2005 from Jefferson Forest High School, said his aunt, Robin Johnson.

"I can't say he was a perfect person with his driving record," Johnson said, "but he didn't deserve to die the way he did."