Less than an hour after calling a crisis center yesterday, saying he wanted to kill himself, a 71-year-old Fairfax County man was shot to death by a police officer outside a Catholic church rectory when he pointed a handgun at the officer and refused to put it down, police said.

The incident was the second in recent weeks in which an apparently disturbed person encountered police and a fatality ensued. On Oct. 18, a Fairfax City woman was taken to a mental health clinic after an argument with her boyfriend. Less than an hour after an officer left her in the care of a mental health provider, the woman returned to her residence and allegedly stabbed her boyfriend to death.

In yesterday's case, officials at an unidentified crisis center contacted Fairfax County police at 4:35 a.m., telling them that Edward G. Connor had just called them, saying he was suicidal, police said. Officers went to check on Connor at his home in the 9800 block of Natick Road in Burke, but as they arrived, he climbed into his car and drove away.

The officers followed Connor as he drove to the rectory door of Holy Spirit Catholic Church in Annandale, where officers spoke with him for about 15 minutes, Officer Camille Neville said.

"During the negotiation process, Connor pointed a gun at them," Neville said. A neighbor told WJLA-TV (Channel 7) that he heard police repeatedly instruct Connor to drop the weapon.

"That officer then fired one round, striking the armed man," Neville said. After the 5:15 a.m. shooting, Connor was taken to Inova Fairfax Hospital, where he died.

Neville said that "anytime an immediate danger or threat becomes clear to the officer, immediate action needs to be taken. Our main priority is protection of life, and the officer's life when in danger."

Connor's family declined to comment.

Because of confidentiality restrictions, Neville could not discuss Connor's mental state or history. Over the years, Fairfax police have developed approaches to resolve situations with mentally ill people without using force or arrest.

For decades, the official policy of the department has stated that "non-arrest resolutions of mental cases will be attempted whenever possible. Ideally, contacts with mentally disturbed persons will result in a referral to appropriate facilities on a voluntary basis."

Two years ago, police established a formal jail diversion program, stationing an officer at the Woodburn Center for Community Mental Health in Annandale for 16 hours a day to help process people picked up by officers on the street. And this year, Fairfax has begun training officers in crisis intervention, with the officers hearing from mental patients and mental health professionals on how best to resolve sensitive situations without force, Maj. Tom Ryan said in a recent interview.

Neville said she did not know whether the officer who was dispatched to check on Connor yesterday was trained in crisis intervention, and, as is Fairfax policy, she did not release his name. She said that he was a 13-year member of the force assigned to Operations Support, which includes the traffic division, and that he had been placed on routine administrative leave with pay pending the criminal and internal investigations.

Meanwhile, Fairfax City police are still trying to determine what happened after their officer picked up Fawn C. Scott, 31, after a domestic dispute and took her to the Woodburn center.

Sgt. Pam Nevlud said the officer stayed with Scott until a mental health provider came for her. Less than an hour later, Scott had returned to her apartment and allegedly stabbed Dexter O. Richardson Sr., 50. Scott has been charged with murder. Woodburn officials said confidentiality restrictions prevented them from commenting.