Virginia State Police say a man was drinking and speeding before he crashed and died in a brief pursuit yesterday in Richmond.

Jamaal R. Tolliver, 25, of Richmond was killed in a crash that occurred at Second and Hull streets after a pursuit that began about 12:15 a.m. and lasted less than two minutes, Sgt. Tom Cunningham said.

Tolliver had ignored a state trooper's repeated attempts to stop and get Tolliver out of his 1997 Nissan Altima before he crashed into a utility pole, Cunningham said.

No other vehicles were involved in the pursuit or the collision, and there were no other injuries, Cunningham said.

"Although the accident is still under investigation, we feel that excessive speed and alcohol were likely factors," he said.

Tolliver was not wearing a seat belt, Cunningham said.

As part of the state police investigation, the department's accident reconstruction team was called to the crash site, where it was assisted by Richmond police and firefighters, he said.

According to Cunningham, the following chain of events occurred:

A trooper, whose name was not released, was southbound on Interstate 95 just north of the Franklin Street exit when he saw the Altima swerving in and out of the right lane, at one point going into the center lane and almost hitting another vehicle.

The Altima got off the interstate at Franklin Street with the trooper behind.

The trooper activated his cruiser's lights and sirens, but the Altima did not stop, running through at least one red light and driving down into Shockoe Bottom, where it got stuck in traffic.

The trooper approached Tolliver, who ignored repeated attempts to get out of the vehicle.

At that point, traffic cleared and the Altima sped south across the James River on the Mayo Bridge and immediately encountered more traffic. This time, Tolliver swerved around the vehicles into the northbound lanes of Hull Street, where he overcorrected, went up on a sidewalk and struck a utility pole.

Tolliver was pronounced dead at the scene.