BY CARLOS SANTOS

AND REX BOWMAN

Times-Dispatch Staff Writers

MILLBORO -- The sometimes sad, sometimes angry life of Donald R. Rice ended just as he often had predicted -- by killing himself after burning down the family's farmhouse.

Authorities said Rice, 50, shot himself after a six-hour standoff that began when the farmhouse in Bath County near Millboro was set ablaze Tuesday about noon.

Rice had prepared for the standoff by using sandbags and logs to barricade a gazebo on a high knoll about 300 yards from the house. He also possessed an arsenal of weapons, including automatic rifles.

The gazebo was a favorite haunt for Rice. He went there many times over the years to shoot guns randomly into the woods in this isolated section of the county.

"It would sound like a mini-war," said neighbor Carol Sutherland, who lives closest to the Rice farmhouse

Rice had been at the gazebo, camped out, since Sunday, authorities said. The gazebo was strategically located for a battle.

"He was on the highest piece of terrain in the area," said Pete Minetree, a member of the Millboro Area Rescue Squad who was at the scene. "His line of sight extended over 1,000 yards. He knew exactly what he was doing."

Rice was well-known in this small community as sometimes acting unstable, said neighbor Phillip Booth, who watched the standoff from his house through binoculars. Other neighbors echoed that sentiment.

But Rice's manner could seem normal. "He was always very pleasant to me," said Angel Negron, a friend of the family who had spoken to Rice a few weeks ago. She said he was "very congenial, though maybe a little hyper, a little nervous. I was just stunned."

Rice ended up in the gazebo, ready to die, after years of disputes with family members, including his late father, neighbors said. His father, James, a retired lieutenant commander Lt. Commanderin the Navy, had bought the farm decades ago. He raised cattle and horses. He died about two years ago, neighbors said.

The farmhouse was renovated into a vacation home and rented out to urban dwellers seeking the peace of the bucolic countryside. The Rice family leased the farmhouse for $250 a night, according to its Web site, which was taken down yesterday.

"Donald was supposed to stay away from the place,'' Booth said. "But he didn't. They rented out the place weeks at a time. That didn't set good with Donald. That was his place. He threatened to burn the place down."

Neighbors said Rice had often threatened suicide.

Booth said the house, a classic two-story Virginia farmhouse built in the 1800s, was renovated recently at a cost of about $350,000. Only one chimney was left standing after yesterday's fire.

Bath County authorities knew Donald Rice well, said Sutherland. They had been to the farmhouse to settle family disputes many times, she said.

Rice, who had no job, was married and lived in the Churchville area of Augusta County, acquaintances said.

On Tuesday, Minetree said, Essie Heffler, a fellow rescue squad volunteer, drove up to the farm in her car after hearing of the fire on her squad radio. Minetree arrived in his pickup truck soon after. "By the time I got there, the house was totally engulfed," he said.

Bath Sheriff Larry Norfleet and Maj. Richard Chestnut arrived in a patrol car, according to a statement from the Bath Sheriff's Department in Warm Springs. That's when the shoot-out erupted.

"The actual shooting itself was very brief," Minetree said. "The sheriff and the deputy started moving in the vehicle up the farm road to the gazebo where this fellow was.

"He fired a couple of shots at them and hit their vehicle. They got out and tried to suppress him [with gunfire] for about one-and-a-half minutes, I guess.''

The sheriff and the major had M-16 automatic rifles. "I don't think anyone could count how many shots were fired," Minetree said.

Andy Seabolt, emergency-services coordinator for Bath, said deputies, state police and agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms surrounded the gazebo.

The law-enforcement teams included tactical teams from Augusta and Alleghany counties and an armored vehicle from the state police. A helicopter stood ready to airlift any injured. No officer was injured.

Sutherland said she is convinced Rice didn't want to hurt anybody except himself.

"He was a good shot," Sutherland said. "I really don't think it was his intention to kill anybody. He sprayed bullets to keep the firefighters back. . . . He wanted that house to burn."

"It's very, very sad he didn't get the help he needed," Sutherland said. "I'm sorry it turned out the way it did. I hoped it would end peacefully."

Contact Carlos Santos at csantos@timesdispatch.com