BY KEITH EPPS

Everyone agrees that it was tragic that 48-year-old David C. Gandy was shot and killed at his Stafford County home late Sunday.

That's one of the few things in common between the police version of the incident and the story told by Gandy's family and close friends.

An unnamed Stafford deputy shot Gandy during a confrontation in Gandy's back yard on Myrtle Lane in Hickory Ridge subdivision in southern Stafford.

The deputy was one of four officers who initially responded to a call for assistance at the residence, according to a news release issued yesterday by the Stafford Sheriff's Office.

Police say Gandy, who had been drinking, "was in the process of raising his handgun" when he was shot and killed.

People close to Gandy, including a neighbor who was talking with him just before he died, insist that Gandy never threatened deputies with the gun and claim he was shot with a rifle from behind for no good reason.

Jordan von Schwanitz, a next-door neighbor who said he witnessed the entire incident, said deputies said nothing before firing the first shot.

"[Gandy] was just upset, a momentary thing," von Schwanitz said. "They made it permanent."

Gandy's son, 24-year-old Matthew Gandy, was more succinct--"the police totally screwed this up," he said.

Stafford Sheriff's Maj. David Decatur said he could not respond immediately to allegations of police wrongdoing, citing an ongoing investigation.

But in the news release, Decatur said, "This is a tragic incident on so many levels for everyone involved. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of David Gandy as well as the deputies involving in this very sad event."

According to the release, the Sheriff's Office got a call at 10:54 p.m. regarding a man who was threatening to shoot himself.

The caller, a family member, said the man was in the backyard with a gun and had told others he would shoot himself if he saw or heard the police.

The release states that deputies arrived about 11 p.m. and encountered Gandy in the backyard. They identified themselves and ordered Gandy to show his hands, the release states.

The man ignored the deputies and was hiding the handgun behind his back. Deputies then fire two hand-held Tasers, which are designed to temporarily incapacitate the target.

The release states that the man was not affected by the Tasers and tried to get away from the deputies. He turned his head in their direction, police said, and began raising his gun when he was shot.

Only one deputy fired in response to Gandy's movement, the release states.

Matt Gandy said he was the family member who called police. He said he did so at the recommendation of a neighbor who is in law en-forcement.

Family members said David Gandy got extremely upset during a family argument and said he was going to shoot himself.

Family members at the home yesterday said that alarmed them because Gan-dy had never talked like that before.

Matt Gandy said he hoped the deputies would be a calming influence, "but instead they just went in with guns and started firing."

Von Schwanitz said he and Gandy's wife, Terry, were talking with Gandy when po-lice surprised them with a flashlight and a Taser.

Von Schwanitz said Gan-dy had calmed down by then and posed no threat to anyone. When he was hit by the Taser, von Schwanitz said, Gandy headed toward his backdoor, which was only a few yards away.

Von Schwanitz said Gandy had his body into the door and was heading inside when he was shot. He fell face down inside the home, witnesses said.

"At no time did he face [the deputies] or even look at them," von Schwanitz said. "He never had a chance."

Von Schwanitz said the only thing he heard police say prior to Gandy's death was "drop the gun." That was af-ter he had already been Tasered, von Schwanitz said.

Gandy, who worked at Fredericksburg Auto Parts/Bumper to Bumper on Amaret Street in Fredericksburg, had been married to his wife Terry for 27 years.

They had two sons, Matthew and David, 26. His parents are David and Judy Gandy of Strasburg.

Gandy's father was at the house yesterday. He said his son grew up in Woodbridge and moved to Stafford about seven years ago. He said he'd never been in trouble with the law. He was an avid Kan-sas City Chiefs fan, the fam-ily said.

The Stafford Sheriff's and Commonwealth's Attorney offices are investigating the shooting, along with the state medical examiner's office, according to the news release.

The four deputies have been placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

Keith Epps: 540/374-5404