UPDATE (2/26/18): The proseuctor in charge of investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting last October has determined that the use of deadly force was justified.

Cristino Umana Garcia was shot and killed on October 5 in rural Finney County.

The Haskell County Attorney says, after reviewing all reports from the KBI as well as all available video footage from the case, he has decided not to file charges against the two officers involved in the shooting.

According to the attorney's report, officers were attempting to arrest Cristino Umana Garcia on a felony warrant. They were informed that he was possibly armed with a handgun. They saw that he had a knife, which he had used to cut his own neck and wrist.

Umana challenged officers numerous times to shoot him while he was in his vehicle. Officers attempted to de-escalate the situation and resolve the matter peacefully.

At one point, Umana exited his vehicle with a jacket on backwards and his hands were not visible to the officers. He then yelled to officers and asked if they were "ready for this." According to the report, officers yelled verbal commands for him to stop and show his hands. At that point, he ran at one of the officers with his arms still covered, then extended one arm in a manner which officers described as a shooting motion.

At that point, both officers - one from the Finney County Sheriff's Department and one from Garden City PD, fired shots at Umana, killing him.

The county attorney said all available evidence suggests that both officers reasonably believed, based upon the circumstances, that Corporal Rojas was in a position of “imminent death or great bodily harm.”

Both reasonably believed that Umana’s verbal statements, and his charging motion with an upraised arm, showed his intent to cause Corporal Rojas’s death or great bodily harm. Both officers had been given prior information that Umana possessed a handgun.

After the shots were fired, officers found a knife in Umana’s hand which had been hidden from law enforcement’s view by the jacket.

-----

The KBI has identified a man who was killed in an officer involved shooting in Finney County as 29-year-old Cristino Umana-Garcia of Garden City.

Officers say they got a call about a man behaving erratically near Garden City.

When they arrived on scene they found Umana-Garcia with a knife to his throat.

He went back to his vehicle and officers tried to talk him down until he emerged again and charged at the officers. That's when they say two officers shot and killed the man.

The KBI and the Garden City Police Department along with the Finney County Sheriff's office are conducting separate investigations.