Federal civil rights suit filed on 1st anniversary of Guardiola's death

Suit alleges 10-minute gap between shooting and summoning EMTs

Forensic analysis disputes timeline of first shot

Guardiola had transferred to Binghamton office alleging harassment at Rochester office

In May 2017, Sandy Guardiola packed up her belongings and moved north from New York City, in search of a quieter life a little closer to nature.

She took a job as a parole officer with the state Department of Corrections and Community Supervision in Rochester and settled in Canandaigua, in a brand-new apartment building on the shores of sparkling Canandaigua Lake.

But just five months after Guardiola unpacked her belongings in the Pinnacle North luxury apartments, she was shot to death in her bed by a Canandaigua police sergeant in what law enforcement officials say was a justified shooting.

Her family is left wondering why.

In a sweeping federal civil rights lawsuit filed today — the one-year anniversary of Guardiola's death — Guardiola's family is raising questions about the law enforcement narrative of the circumstances that sparked the ultimately deadly police response inside the 48-year-old's apartment last Oct. 4 and the actions of officers at the scene.

Among the suit's allegations:

The suit questions why there was a 10-minute gap between the shooting and when emergency medical technicians were summoned to provide aid to Guardiola, who was still alive and breathing at the time.

to provide aid to Guardiola, who was still alive and breathing at the time. Parole officers in Rochester who called 911 to request police check Guardiola's welfare after she failed to show up to work should have known that she was on an approved medical leave and that she had transferred to the Binghamton office;

and that she had transferred to the Binghamton office; That forensic analysis shows Guardiola couldn't have pointed her service weapon at Sgt. Scott Kadien as police allege, but rather that she was first shot while retrieving her Glock 9mm handgun from under her pillow, causing her gun to discharge in the opposite direction from where the Kadien was standing.

"The issue we're concerned about is accountability," said attorney Jonathan Moore, who represents Guardiola's children Andrew and Alysa Ocasio, both residents of Westchester County. Moore filed the suit on their behalf Thursday morning in U.S. District Court, Western District of New York. "Who should be accountable for what happened to Sandy Guardiola? She didn't cause her own death. This wasn't a suicide; a doctor who saw her just 24 hours before said she was in good spirits. There was no reason to explain why she would have acted the way they said she acted."

'The toughest person I've known'

Loving. Giving. Smart. Funny. And strong, so strong.

That's how Andrew and Alysa Ocasio describe their mother.

In the kitchen of an AirBnB house in Batavia on Wednesday night, Guardiola's two children could barely speak of their mom without their eyes filling with tears.

"I don't think I can ever live up to her name," said Alysa, a restaurant manager and 2017 graduate of the state University College at Cortland. "I mean, she worked so hard. She went from Nassau Community College to Queens College to Columbia University, straight A's all the way through."

Andrew broke in. "All while having to raise two kids on her own."

"Yeah," said Alysa. "Just in that, she's an inspiration. If I can be half the woman she is..." She trailed off. "That she was."

Guardiola grew up in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Williamsburg back when it was gritty, industrial and working class, long before it gentrified and turned hipster-chic.

"She grew up with a family that really didn't have a dime to their name, but she didn't let the odds defeat her," said Andrew.

Her path out was education, and work. In her early 20s, Guardiola took a job working as a corrections officer in New York City's rugged Riker's Island jail complex.

As a mom, she was tough but warm. She worked hard and she and her then husband saved up enough money to buy a house for her family on Long Island when she was just 25. She took Andrew to Mets games, encouraged Alysa in her studies, and all the while knew how to kick back and relax.

"We used to clean every Saturday and she knew how to make it fun," said Alysa. "She'd blast music from the speakers and we'd each have their own section to do. She'd dance with a broom. We'd have disco nights, too. She got this little disco ball she'd put on the table and we'd dance...she loved to dance.

"She always used to tell me if she could go back and change just one thing she'd be a dancer."

Just 5-foot-4 with a slender frame, Guardiola may not have looked the part of a warrior, but she never let the male inmates at Riker's get to her, her daughter said.

"She didn't bat an eye," Alysa said. "She is the toughest person I've known."

That toughness was tested in 2008, when Guardiola faced her first bout with breast cancer. Despite treatments and a double mastectomy, Guardiola pressed on with her education, earning a master's degree in social work from Columbia University in 2009.

She left the jail soon after and worked in that field for the next six years, battling cancer again in 2012. In 2015 she decided to change careers again, and enrolled in a training academy to become a parole officer for the state Department of Corrections and Community Supervision.

That job is what brought her to Canandaigua, where Guardiola specialized in working with parolees with a history of mental health issues.

"She always cared for everybody," said Andrew. "She always put others first, always wanted to be there to help, no matter who, how old, what color they were, it didn't matter to her if she could help someone, she wanted to do it."

Alleged harassment, bullying

Central to the police narrative of what happened in Guardiola's apartment last Oct. 4 is a 911 call made that afternoon by a worker at the Rochester parole office, who requested a welfare check saying that Guardiola hadn't showed up for work that day.

That call is what led Sgt. Kadien to obtain an electronic key fob from a Pinnacle North employee shortly before 4:30 p.m. and gain access to Guardiola's apartment. Police have said Guardiola fired first and Kadien returned fire, striking the woman three times — in the chest, arm and head. Guardiola died of her injuries at UR Thompson Hospital.

An Ontario County grand jury in March determined the shooting was justified.

But the lawsuit claims the 911 call that sparked the welfare check was suspect from the start, and alleges a pattern of bullying and abuse at the Rochester parole office, where Guardiola worked from June 2017 until September 2017. That harassment led Guardiola to request a transfer to the Binghamton office, where she had been scheduled to begin working as of Sept. 7.

But, just days before she was to report to her new work location, Guardiola was in a car accident, diagnosed with post-concussion syndrome and officially placed on a weeks-long medical leave, according to the suit.

"In our mind, that raises the question of whether this (the 911 call) was part of that harassment she was subject to," said Moore. Since Guardiola didn't work at the Rochester office any longer, "there was no reason for them to be calling for a welfare check."

The day before she died, Guardiola visited her doctor for a check-up and to be cleared to return to work the next day. That paperwork was completed too late in the day for her to turn it in to Binghamton, so she spoke with officials there early in the morning of Oct. 4.

The specifics of that communication are not known to attorneys for the family, said Moore.

Who shot first?

The lawsuit says Guardiola went to bed sometime around 4 p.m. on Oct. 4 — likely so early in preparation for getting up with enough time the next day to make a three-hour commute to Binghamton. She took her prescribed medication for insomnia, and likely put in earplugs, as was her sleeping custom.

Police have said that Kadien, dressed in his uniform, entered the apartment around 4:30 p.m., identified himself as a police officer, and went room-to-room before finding Guardiola in her bed.

He did not have a warrant for entry, and police or workers at the parole office never tried to call her listed emergency contacts prior to ringing 911, said Moore.

Ontario County District Attorney Jim Ritts said in an April press conference that Kadien expected to find Guardiola deceased, but instead discovered that she appeared to be in distress. He said she was "not verbal" and that "her mouth was moving but words weren't coming out."

The police narrative says Kadien left the room and called an ambulance to assist. Then, he returned to her room, where he saw Guardiola with a gun in her hand.

Ritts said it appeared that the weapon, Guardiola's service Glock 9mm, fired as she pulled it out from under her pillow, sending a round through her bedroom wall before she pointed the weapon at Kadien.

Ritts said Guardiola didn't comply with Kadien's demand that she drop the gun, so the police officer fired three times, striking her in the chest, arm and head.

The lawsuit presents a different story, instead alleging instead that autopsy reports show Guardiola was laying on her stomach in bed when she reached for her service weapon — which she kept nearby under a pillow as a result of threats made against her by parolees — and that Kadien fired first with a shot that penetrated her right arm, then struck her right ear and head.

Guardiola's hand tightened reflexively in response to the bullet wound in her arm, causing her gun to go off, the lawsuit alleges.

Moore said the family has enlisted consulting services from well-known forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Baden, former chief medical examiner in New York City and host of the long-running HBO series Autopsy.

"She was shot in a position that would have posed no threat to (Kadien)," Moore said. "He makes it sound like he just walks into the bedroom and she starts shooting. It's a he said, she said and unfortunately she's dead and we have to reconstruct what happened with ballistics and forensics."

Moore also accused the Monroe County Medical Examiner's office of "dragging its feet" and not providing Guardiola's family with all of her autopsy records.

Still, the lawsuit says the path of Guardiola's bullet makes it clear "that she never shot or pointed a gun in Kadien's direction."

Gap in aid

Also at issue in the suit is an alleged 10-minute gap between the time Kadien fired his last shots and when emergency medical workers were allowed into the apartment to treat Guardiola's wounds.

The suit alleges that rather than immediately contacting EMTs — which had already staged across the street for the wellness check — Kadien instead called for police backup. When members of the Canandaigua Fire Department responded sometime around 4:40 p.m, they were told Guardiola had 'been down about 10 minutes, and they found her apartment was already "filled with law enforcement officers."

Emergency workers found Guardiola, still breathing, handcuffed in her bed, surrounded by "copious blood."

She was taken to the hospital, and pronounced dead at 5:30 p.m.

The lawsuit claims officers who responded to the scene "knew Kadien unlawfully entered Ms. Guardiola's apartment and bedroom and unjustly shot and killed her without cause, and immediately conspired together to cover it up by falsely claiming Ms. Guardiola pointed a gun at Kadien, threatened him, or was at all engaged in conversation with him prior to him shooting her."

The lawsuit, which seeks compensatory damages of at least $50 million, plus unspecified punitive damages and attorney's fees, alleges violations of Guardiola's Fourth and Fourteenth Amendment rights, including the right to privacy, the right to be secure in one's home, the right to be free of unreasonable search and seizure and the right to be free from deprivation of life and liberty without due process of law.

It also alleges violations of the state Constitution related to the practice of gaining entry to people's homes to perform welfare checks.

Named in the suit are the city of Canandaigua, Canandaigua Police, staff members with the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision, the company that manages the Pinnacle North apartments and two of that company's employees.

John Goodwin, city of Canandaigua's city manager released a written statement on Thursday morning.

"Like many today, we watched the press conference and continue to express our condolences to the Guardiola family for their loss," he said, "We look forward to a judicial resolution."

He also said it is the city's general policy to not comment on pending litigation.

But, he said, "we find it important to remind the community that this matter was independently and fully investigated by the New York State Police and they concluded our officer's conduct was justified. The results of that investigation were also presented by the Ontario County District Attorney's Office to a grand jury. The grand jury determined that there were not grounds to support an indictment."

Moore said Guardiola's family remains undaunted in their quest for answers.

"It's outrageous that this woman who had served her city and her state for so many years was treated in this fashion," said Moore. "They have a lot to answer for, and the half-baked investigation they did with the DA will not stand."

MCDERMOT@Gannett.com

Includes reporting by staff writer Sean Lahman.

More:SUPPORT LOCAL JOURNALISM: Become a subscriber

More:Sandy Guardiola ID'd as parole officer who died in Canandaigua shooting

More:Parole officer Sandy Guardiola, police officer exchanged gunfire in apartment, police say