ORANGE COUNTY, Fla. — A man was shot and killed by an Orlando police officer Friday afternoon after he refused to drop a knife and threatened officers, Orlando police Chief John Mina said during a news conference.

The shooting was reported just after 2 p.m. at apartments near Conway Road and Michigan Street.

Police received a call from the Roberto Callejas family at 10:45 a.m. to check on the well-being of Callejas, investigators said. The family told police Callejas knew there was a warrant for his arrest and was waiting for police with explosives.

Callejas had a warrant for his arrest for a failure to appear in an armed trespassing case to the suspect's residence on Michigan Street.

At 10:45 am OPD received a call from suspect’s family saying suspect knew he had warrant for arrest & was waiting for police w/explosives pic.twitter.com/FcLQaY6VjD — Orlando Police (@OrlandoPolice) October 6, 2017

Police said when they arrived, Callejas had a knife to his throat and refused to drop the weapon. Police used a Taser on him, Callejas fell down, got back up with what officers thought was a laser connected to a firearm, so officers said they felt threatened and shot him. Callejas got back up and threatened officers with a knife and Callejas was shot a second time and died, investigators said.

"In this instance, he did threaten the lives of my officers, so they had to take actions to protect their own lives and I'm very proud of their actions," Mina said.

No explosives were found in the home, police said.

An Orlando police officer has been placed on leave, which is routine during officer-involved shootings.

The officer, whose name has not been released, has been with OPD for more than 20 years and has been involved in an officer-involved shooting before, Mina said. Those details have not been released.

Police said they had a similar encounter with Callejas Sept. 20 after he went inside a neighbor's porch with a knife and was talking about killing people. The neighbor said Callejas has severe schizophrenia.

During a standoff with police in Sept., Callejas said he was upset that his cat was dying and that he could not care for the cat. He said he was also angry with police that he was Baker Acted and held for a month at a mental health facility.

The standoff ended more than three hours later, investigators said.

Callejas' former neighbor and friend, Carlos Ramon, told Channel 9 that what happened was tragic, but he knew the man had made threats previously to hurt himself or others.

"I feel like it's inevitable," Ramon said. "I've seen this day coming.

"Rob's a loving, caring person. It's just his mind isn't there."

Watch below: News conference from Orlando police Chief John Mina:

Police tape up and multiple police vehicles and officers on scene @WFTV pic.twitter.com/vTvcOhTlq3 — Samantha Manning (@SamManningNews) October 6, 2017

An @OrlandoFireDept engine just arrived at the apartment complex. It’s unclear why @UCFPolice are here. #WFTV pic.twitter.com/nBSRAbklDd — Mike Manzoni NBC10 Boston (@MikeNBCBoston) October 6, 2017

Cox Media Group