ST. LOUIS • A man police say forced his way into a Dogtown bar and grill and threatened employees with a butcher knife Saturday morning was shocked with a Taser by an officer and died.

The St. Louis Police Department said the dead man, in his 60s, threatened employees in the kitchen of Tamm Avenue Grill at 1227 Tamm Avenue.

Police responding to a call for help about 10:20 a.m. ordered the man multiple times to put the knife down, according to St. Louis police spokeswoman Schron Jackson.

“After failing to obey numerous commands from officers, the suspect was tased,” a police press release states. “As the suspect was being taken into custody he stopped breathing. EMS transported the suspect to the hospital where he was pronounced deceased.”

Pat Rutherford-Pettine, who owns the bakery, Sugaree, across the street, said one of the owners of the bar told her that the man who broke in had been “tearing the place up and he was throwing stuff around.”

The man tried to attack a cook with the knife, and the cook defended himself with a bar stool, she said the owner told her. None of the employees was hurt.

The son of the man who was shocked with the Taser came to the scene and learned there that his father was dead, Rutherford-Pettine said.

“I feel bad for them all,” she said. “Nobody asked for it to happen.”

Bob Brazell, one of the owners of the Tamm Avenue Grill, said about four employees were inside the bar at the time of the attack. None of them knew the man or had ever seen him before, Brazell said.

“It was as scary as you can imagine,” said Brazell, who arrived mid-attack. “Luckily no one was injured. They were all shaken up ... but everyone was OK.”

The police department’s Force Investigative Unit is handling the investigation.

The Tamm Avenue Grill remained closed all day Saturday. Brazell said the business would try to re-open by noon Sunday, and he hoped that Dogtown residents would come out to support the business.

“We will resume with normal hours tomorrow,” the company’s Facebook page said. “Sorry for the inconvenience. To anyone that heard what happened, all employees are safe. Thank you all for the help this morning.”

Rutherford-Pettine said she has lived in the neighborhood since 1999. It is a “very safe neighborhood” where “people wave as you pass” even if they don’t know you, she said.

“It’s the friendliest neighborhood. People talk to each other. It’s safe,” she said.

Crime in the Clayton-Tamm neighborhood was unchanged in the last six months, compared with the same period during the previous year.

Joel Currier of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.