The warnings signs were many.

There was the time he ransacked her apartment with bleach and detergent and stole her most sentimental possession, a box that contained a birth certificate from a failed pregnancy. There were the threatening, expletive-filled instant messages in which he called her a “slut’’ after she broke up with him. There was a court order that he stay away from her.

But despite police involvement since March and Alexander Skowran’s guilty plea this summer to destroying most of his former girlfriend’s possessions, no one was able to save Giselle Rodriguez.

On Monday, police found the 23-year-old dead in her one-bedroom apartment in Clinton, strangled to death by Skowran, police said. That night authorities tracked Skowran, a 22-year-old Fitchburg State College senior, to a motel in Virginia, where he shot himself to death after officers surrounded his room.

Rodriguez is the state’s 21st victim of a domestic homicide this year, four fewer than at the same time last year.

“The death of Giselle Rodriguez and the other acts of domestic violence we’ve seen over the past three years show that we are nowhere near where we need to be in stopping domestic violence,’’ Worcester District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr. said in a statement. “We have to be vigilant in looking for signs of domestic violence.’’

Advocates who seek to reduce domestic violence said the court erred in requiring Skowran to take anger management classes, rather than another program.

“The batterer’s intervention program focuses on having the perpetrator recognize their own behavior and take responsibility for it,’’ said Toni Troop, a spokeswoman for Jane Doe Inc., a Boston-based group that works to reduce domestic violence. “They also have contact with victims, in case there’s still a threat. Anger management classes don’t do either of those, and that could have made a big difference in this case.’’

Officials at Fitchburg State College, where Skowran studied exercise and sport science and was due to graduate in January, acknowledged they had not known about Skowran’s guilty plea. If they had known, they said, he may have been expelled.

“This simply had not made it onto our radar screen,’’ said Michael Shanley, a college spokesman.

Police alerted college officials about the hunt for Skowran on Monday, but no campuswide alerts were issued. The college’s president, Robert V. Antonucci, defended the school’s decision to keep the investigation quiet.

“While state and campus police were vigilant throughout the day here . . . there was never any serious belief on the part of the authorities that the suspect would return to Fitchburg,’’ Antonucci wrote in a letter to students and staff yesterday.