Two suspects in an armed convenience-store robbery were killed late Friday during a police chase that began in Richmond and ended with a crash in Henrico County.

Driver Lawrence E. Murchison, 32, of Richmond was found dead at the scene of the crash on New Market Road, between Hickory Road and Laburnum Avenue.

The identity of the passenger was not released last night because police were trying to locate his relatives, Henrico police Lt. Rick Schurz said.

Police said the Fas Mart convenience store and gas station at 2600 E. Main St. was robbed just after 11 p.m. Friday. The robbers made off with an undisclosed amount of cash, Richmond police Capt. Linda Samuel said.

Police attempted to stop the suspects after they left the store, but they fled in a Dodge pickup truck and headed east on Main Street toward state Route 5, which turns into New Market Road.

At least two cars from each department joined the pursuit. Speeds at times were in excess of 80 mph, Schurz said.

The truck hit a utility pole, shattering it, and continued hitting other things in its path. The impact with a large oak tree split the truck in half.

"The cab was in one yard and the bed liner was laying in another yard," Schurz said.

One of the men was thrown 100 feet from the wreckage and onto New Market Road.

The pursuit began at 11:08 p.m. and was over within two minutes.

Richmond police will investigate the robbery, while the Henrico crash team will investigate the wreck, Schurz said.

This is the third time since September that a pursuit involving Henrico or Richmond police has ended in death. Other fatalities include:





Nicole Bellio, 25, was killed Nov. 21 after losing control of her car while trying to evade police in Short Pump. Henrico police had attempted to pull her over for speeding on West Broad Street and followed her until the crash on Springfield Road.

Robert S. White, 32, died after losing control of his car and hitting a utility pole near the Fifth Street Bridge on Sept. 17. Richmond police had been trying to stop White for an unspecified traffic infraction. White had outstanding warrants for abduction and grand larceny.