A Chesterfield County man died yesterday after he was wounded Monday in an exchange of gunfire with a county SWAT team, marking the second fatal shooting by Chesterfield police in recent months.

Police shot Brett M. Rivers after he emerged from his residence at The Park at Salisbury apartments and opened fire on SWAT team members Monday night, ending a 2½-hour standoff, police said.

Rivers, 36, died yesterday shortly before 2:30 a.m. at VCU Medical Center.

Microsoft Corp. said yesterday that Rivers had worked in various technical jobs at the company for eight years.

"He was engaging, well-liked and committed to his customers," the company said in a statement. "We are shocked and saddened by Brett's death, and our thoughts go out to his family, friends and colleagues."

Monday's drama began shortly after 6 p.m. when Rivers brandished a firearm at an employee of the apartment complex, located off North Otterdale Road near the intersection of Midlothian Turnpike and state Route 288, police said in a news release.

Police said Rivers returned to his second-floor apartment and fired shots from inside. Officers "immediately evacuated apartment residents" and negotiated with Rivers about 2½ hours before he emerged and "fired several shots at SWAT team members who then shot and wounded Rivers," the news release said.

The episode seemed surreal to neighbor Hilton F. Glynn, who has lived at the well-groomed complex for more than five years, where apartments rent for $985 to $1,300 per month, according to the Web site.

"The big thing is, you just don't expect it here," he said. "This is a really quiet community."

Glynn was watching "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" with his son, Paul, when they heard a loud bang Monday night. "It was really loud -- it was something that shook the house," he said.

About 15 minutes later, they heard another one.

That's when Glynn, a construction company project manager, looked out the patio door of his first-floor apartment. He said he saw Virginia State Police positioning themselves across from the building, armed with rifles.

"Every time I would peek out, there was more and more cops with rifles," he said.

Glynn said he spoke to an apartment complex employee by phone after Rivers returned to his apartment at 503 Kerri Cove Court and fired shots from inside. Glynn said the employee works at the complex clubhouse directly across Lancaster Gate Drive from Rivers' apartment.

"She said, 'We have a situation. A tenant above you is trying to commit suicide,'" Glynn said.

The Parks at Salisbury office was closed yesterday. Workers were boarding Rivers' apartment and cleaning blood spatter on the concrete stairs and first-floor landing yesterday afternoon.

Chesterfield police declined to comment beyond their news release. Chesterfield Chief Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney Kenneth E. Nickels said he also could not provide additional details, including how many officers opened fire, how many shots were fired or how many times Rivers was shot.

Nickels said prosecutors will wait until after they receive a final investigative report from Chesterfield police before a conclusion is reached as to whether the shooting was justified. Typically in such cases, prosecutors also wait for autopsy results and the completion of ballistics testing, he added.

A SWAT team officer has been placed on routine administrative duty pending investigation of the incident.

Messages left for Chesterfield police officials requesting a copy of the department's use-of-force policy were not returned yesterday. A training director for the department said in 2004 that officers were authorized to shoot when they reasonably perceived "imminent threat or death or serious bodily injury" to themselves or someone else.

Defense attorney David P. Baugh, who has represented four police officers charged with murder for shooting someone while on duty, said many factors must be considered when determining whether such a shooting was legal. People should reserve judgment until they have all the facts, he said.

"If someone shoots at a cop, that does not mean a police officer has need to shoot back," Baugh said.

A multijurisdictional grand jury ruled as justifiable a shooting April 25 by Chesterfield police that killed Robert Allen "Bo" Hansen Jr., a mentally ill man. An officer shot him from close range after Hansen tackled another officer, according to Hansen's family.

Contact Michael Martz at (804) 649-6964 or mmartz@timesdispatch.com.