Previous coverage Police ID man shot by sheriff's deputy

Police kill suspect in Christiansburg standoff Timeline 8:40 p.m.: Christiansburg police are called about a domestic situation on Ellett Road, where a man reportedly left in a pickup truck with his 2-year-old daughter

Christiansburg police are called about a domestic situation on Ellett Road, where a man reportedly left in a pickup truck with his 2-year-old daughter 8:50 p.m.: Montgomery County Sheriff's Office is notified that Christiansburg police are in pursuit of a vehicle on Ellett Road

Montgomery County Sheriff's Office is notified that Christiansburg police are in pursuit of a vehicle on Ellett Road 8:52 p.m.: Vehicle crashes into an off-duty law enforcement officer on Ellett Road

Vehicle crashes into an off-duty law enforcement officer on Ellett Road 8:56 p.m.: Incident is reported as a hostage situation

Incident is reported as a hostage situation 9:24 p.m.: Suspect is reported down Map

View this map in a larger window

Note: Map shows approximate location

CHRISTIANSBURG -- Officers pleaded for half an hour Wednesday night with a man who was threatening to harm his young daughter before finally shooting him, they said Thursday.

But a family member said Michael Eugene Potts, 35, was devoted to his children.

"He loved his kids," Barbara Potts, Michael Potts' stepmother, said by telephone Thursday from her home in Maryland.

Potts was killed after a short police pursuit led to a standoff just outside the town limits.

It started at 8:40 p.m. Wednesday, when Christiansburg police got a call about a domestic situation on Ellett Road. It was reported that a man had left a home with his 2-year-old daughter and driven off with her in his pickup truck.

A Christiansburg police officer tried to stop the truck, but the driver kept going down Ellett Road, Christiansburg police Maj. Dalton Reid said.

At 8:52 p.m., the truck crashed nearly head-on into an off-duty deputy with the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office. That deputy, who hasn't been named, was driving his personal vehicle with his teenage daughter as a passenger.

Sheriff's deputies, who had been notified that the pursuit was heading from the town limits into the county, showed up almost immediately, said Lt. Brian Wright of the sheriff's office.

When officers approached the truck, the driver warned them to stay away and threatened to harm his daughter, Wright said. He said the driver had a weapon, but wouldn't say what type.

Officers blocked the roadway and tried to negotiate with the driver to give up or to let them take the girl to safety, Wright said.

After a standoff that lasted nearly half an hour, the driver put the truck in reverse and began to back it toward officers, Wright said.

That is when a deputy who was on-duty shot him one time, Wright said.

Potts was reported down at 9:24 p.m., Wright said.

Both Potts and the toddler were in the truck when Potts was shot, Wright said.

However, Montgomery County Sheriff Tommy Whitt said, the deputies would not have fired if they felt they were presenting a danger to the girl.

"The child's safety was the number one concern," he said.

The sheriff's office asked Virginia State Police to investigate the shooting, state police Sgt. Rob Carpentieri said. It is standard procedure for an outside agency to investigate an officer-involved shooting.

The deputy, whose name has not been released, has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome, Whitt said.

No law enforcement officers were injured in the incident.

"I don't know what transpired there," Barbara Potts said, but she said she didn't understand how "it went from a speed chase to a murder" in a short amount of time. She questioned why family members were not contacted during the standoff.

She said Michael Potts graduated from Christiansburg High School in 1992, where he was a standout football player.

She described him as a hard worker who "was trying to make ends meet" and had jobs that included laying tile.

"What time he did have available, he spent it with his children," she said.

She said Michael Potts' father, Richard Potts, was too upset to talk about what had happened.

Michael Potts' mother and other family members who live in Christiansburg couldn't be reached Thursday.

According to online court records, a Michael Eugene Potts of Christiansburg was convicted of two counts of assault and battery in 1995 and a third count in 2000. He was convicted in 2008 of carrying a concealed weapon.

Potts' body was taken to the medical examiner's office in Roanoke for an autopsy, Carpentieri said. Toxicology reports will determine whether Potts had drugs or alcohol in his system.

Officers with the state police Bureau of Criminal Investigation were interviewing witnesses Thursday, Carpentieri said.

They will turn their findings over to Montgomery County Commonwealth's Attorney Brad Finch, he said, to determine whether the shooting was justified.

It is likely that Finch will recuse himself from the case and a special prosecutor will be appointed because Finch works regularly with officers from the sheriff's office.

It generally takes several weeks to complete investigations into officer-involved shootings.

News researcher Belinda Harris contributed to this report.