Crossville man killed by Cookeville police officerPublished Sept. 10, 2003By Michael R. MoserChronicle editorA knife-wielding Crossville man is dead and a Cookeville policeofficer suspended with pay following a nearly four-hour standoff thatended with a single gunshot from a police marksman.Killed instantly was Marvin Shane England, 30, who had a First St.,Crossville, address. The woman whom police said was threatened with aknife by England, Lacey Leona Bryant, 21, escaped serious injury.Police Officer Sgt. Ken Sircy, a member of the CPD SWAT team, wasidentified as the man who pulled the trigger and has been placed onadministrative leave with pay pending the outcome of a TBIinvestigation into the shooting.Efforts to contact Police Chief Bob Terry were unsuccessful yesterdayafternoon, but Terry was quoted in the Cookeville Herald-Citizen asstating, "It had gone on for hours by that time, and what happened atthe last happened in the blink of an eye."Police were called to Bryant's father's Denton Ave. home around 2 p.m.Monday when a neighbor reported Bryant's father had brought to them ayoung child, requesting that police be called about a disturbancebetween England and Bryant.Officers Joe Greenwood and Luke Ward arrived on the scene with oneofficer spotting England sitting on a sofa, holding a large huntingknife to the throat of Lacey Bryant, the Herald-Citizen reported.The SWAT team and a negotiating team were called to the scene and forover three hours attempted to persuade England to release Bryant.Police were finally able to convince England to allow Bryant to usethe bathroom at which time police had planned to rescue the woman.England saw police moving in and leaped toward the woman, putting theknife to the woman's throat, leading police to believe Englandintended to kill the woman. Sircy fired one shot, striking England inthe head and ending the standoff at 5:40 p.m.Cookeville Police said England had a record in Putnam County whichincluded burglary, probation violation, vandalism and drivingoffenses. Crossville Police said they did not have a record forEngland.England was listed as the victim on a domestic violence report inJanuary of this year when, it was alleged, Bryant entered England'sFirst St., Crossville home, vandalized the home, struck England with afrying pan and cut him on the hand with a knife.What led up to yesterday's standoff remains uncertain and underinvestigation.Sircy has been with the Cookeville department for 13 years. The chiefsaid that it was standard procedure to place Sircy on administrativeleave. "This is standard procedure in situations like this. We, ofcourse, regret that a life was lost, but we realize it can happen inthis job and we are happy that this woman was rescued and no one elsewas injured."