Alvin Lester Pleasants, blamed for killing two people on Friday, after which he committed suicide, lost a younger brother two years ago in an event that bears violent similarities.

Jonathan Eric Pleasants, 34, shot a woman in March 2008 in South Richmond, police confirmed yesterday. Then he stepped outside and killed himself with a shotgun blast to the head. The woman survived.

On Friday, Alvin Pleasants attacked Tarchelle Daniel, 36, outside her apartment in the city's Randolph area in broad daylight, shooting her multiple times. She died at a hospital soon afterward.

Shortly after that shooting, the 45-year-old Pleasants stopped by his grandmother's house and asked her for money to get a haircut, said the grandmother, Ollie M. James.

Hours later, about 5:30 p.m., as police were closing in on Pleasants, he tried to cut through Charles Jackson's yard in the city's East End. When Pleasants encountered Jackson, a 56-year-old retiree of two days, Pleasants shot him once in the head and killed him.

Pleasants ran about 50 yards and fatally shot himself in the head.

"He's not the monster that everybody's portraying him as," Alvin's mother, Rose Pleasants, said of her son. She also expressed her condolences to the families of both Jackson and Daniel.

Referring to the violent deaths of her two grandsons, James said: "It's not all that bad a family, but what happened to them, nobody knows."

Daniel's mother, Shirley, said her daughter knew Alvin Pleasants about 1½ or two years ago, and that after Pleasants' brother committed suicide, he grew depressed and said he might kill himself, too. Tarchelle Daniel had tried to sever ties with Pleasants.

However, Pleasants' mother and grandmother both said they never heard him say he wanted to hurt himself. They said he was distraught and missed his dead brother, but so did the rest of the family. Pleasants' grandmother said he grew quieter after Jonathan's death.

They offered no explanation for the shootings.

"He was a good person," James said. "He was a sweet person. I had no idea he had anything like that in his mind."

Rose Pleasants added: "When I last saw him, Tuesday or Wednesday, we were just laughing and joking. It didn't seem like anything was bothering him."

But around the same time last week, Daniel told a male friend she was worried that Alvin Pleasants might try to hurt him, Daniel's mother said.

On Friday about 9 a.m.. a neighbor saw someone matching Pleasants' description standing near Daniel's home in the Randolph Village Apartments on Lakeview Avenue. When Daniel went outside shortly before 11 a.m., she was shot inside her mother's car. She died of multiple gunshots to the chest, according to the state medical examiner's office.

James said that between 11 a.m. and noon that day, Pleasants stopped by her home, only a few blocks from the scene of his suicide, which occurred that afternoon near the intersection of North 29th and S streets.

Pleasants was quieter than usual, his grandmother said, but she noticed nothing else out of the ordinary. He sat on her couch and asked for the haircut money, and she gave him $25. He stayed about 10 minutes.

"He said, 'I'd like to go before it gets too crowded,'" James recalled. She said it wasn't unusual for one of her grandchildren to borrow money.

Police have not given a timeline for Pleasants' movements from the time Daniel was slain until the murder-suicide later that day.

Pleasants' record includes convictions on charges including forgery, grand larceny and stalking, according to the Virginia Department of Corrections. He was sentenced in 1995 to serve five years in prison for malicious wounding and use of a firearm in a felony.

He was released from the Richmond City Jail on March 22, 2004. He faced a misdemeanor assault charge against a man last year, but the case was withdrawn.