A suspect was killed and a Homewood police officer wounded during an exchange of gunfire early Thursday in the parking lot of a business off of Lakeshore Parkway.

Family identified the slain man as 35-year-old John Payne. He had a cleaning service and had a client in the area where he was killed.

The shooting happened about 1:30 a.m. outside of Allsouth Appliance, the old Babies R Us location, at 345 State Farm Parkway, said Sgt. John Carr. It began when two officers on patrol spotted two vehicles in the lot, one of which had the trunk open. There were three people - two men and a woman - in or near the vehicles.

The officers put a description of the vehicle out over the police radio to see if it was suspected in a recent rash of break-ins in the city. While they were trying to identify one of the primary suspects, he took off running and officers gave chase on foot. Both officers deployed their Taser stun guns, but they had no effect on the suspect.

While running, the suspect - now identified as Payne - fired at officers and both officers returned fire, Carr said. One of the officers was struck in the thigh and rushed to Grandview Medical Center with what was initially thought to be serious injuries. Carr said he is going to be OK. The officer is in his 20s and has been on the force about two years.

He was treated and released from the hospital midday Thursday.

Payne was pronounced dead on the scene. The other two persons of interest were questioned and released.

Two of Payne's sisters returned to the site of the shooting Thursday afternoon, and from there went to meet with officials at the Jefferson County coroner's office.

Carr said the two officers were not part of an ongoing undercover operation targeting the spate of break-ins in the city over the past two weeks, but were on their routine patrol. Homewood Police Chief Tim Ross was at the hospital with the wounded officer. The officer is expected to make a full recovery.

Investigators have not determined why the vehicles were in the parking lot. They are waiting on search warrants to search the vehicles. Both officers will be placed on administrative leave during the investigation, which is standard policy for officer-involved shootings .

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency will conduct the investigation, which also is standard procedure.

Two months ago, a man was killed by Homewood police after authorities say he he shocked an officer with a Taser. Thomas Justin Walton, 32, lived in Calera and was a convicted felon. The shooting happened at 12:56 a.m. that Saturday at the Extended Stay America Hotel on State Farm Parkway in Homewood.

In that case, the incident also began when the officer stopped to speak with a man he saw while patrolling the parking lot of the hotel. Walton got into a struggle with the officer, and was able to grab the officer's Taser and use it on the officer. The officer then shot the suspect.

In August of 2016, a female robbery suspect was shot and killed by Homewood police. outside the Marathon station near the intersection of West Valley Avenue and Vulcan Road. Homewood police say Amanda Bivens, 40, was inside the Marco Xpress package store when officers received an anonymous tip that the robbery suspect was there.

When Homewood police arrived on the scene, Bivens was outside the store. Police approached her, and the woman brandished her gun and three officers opened fire. Roughly a dozen bullets were fired by officers.