Updated at 7:32 p.m.

A report released Friday evening by the Albemarle County Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office found that Charlottesville police used reasonable force when officers shot and killed an armed home invasion suspect in October.

J.C. Hawkins Jr., 32, pointed a handgun at city officers twice over the course of a short foot chase, the report states.

Just before 1 p.m. on Oct. 13, Charlottesville police responded to a reported home invasion, armed robbery and sexual assault in the 300 block of Riverside Avenue.

The 72-year-old victim told police she answered a knock at her front door and a man holding a firearm pushed his way into her home. He told her he was going to “have sex one more time before being killed by police,” according to the report. The man forced the victim into her bedroom and demanded money and jewelry before sexually assaulting her.

The man had bound, gagged and blindfolded the victim. She was able to free herself to call 911.

She described her attacker as a light-skinned black male in his 20s of thin build and standing about 5 feet 9 inches.

Just after 1:15 p.m., a city officer spotted someone — whom police later identified as Hawkins — matching the suspect’s description in the area of Riverside Park. When officers, both in uniform and plain clothes, approached him, Hawkins took off running through the woods and into the middle of the Rivanna River.

When officers caught up, they saw a gun in Hawkins’ hand and when police repeatedly told him to drop the weapon, Hawkins refused and reportedly shouted, “Kill me! Just f***ing kill me!”

As he was waving his gun around and pointing it under his own chin, according to the report, at least one officer fired multiple rounds, but none appeared to hit Hawkins. At that point, Hawkins took off running again.

As he reached the east bank of the river, Hawkins again turned around and told police to kill him before pointing his weapon at officers. Two additional officers opened fire and killed Hawkins instantly, according to the report.

Officers immediately called for emergency medical assistance and attempted to render aid to Hawkins. A fully loaded .32-caliber pistol with its hammer cocked was recovered from underneath his body, the report states.

The cause of death was a single gunshot wound to the head, according to the report and based on an examination by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

Then-Charlottesville Police Chief Al Thomas initially requested the Virginia State Police lead the investigation of the incident. Because the lethal use-of-force occurred in Albemarle County, the commonwealth’s attorney’s office was notified, according to the report. The office assumed responsibility for decisions on any charges.

VSP special agents led the joint investigation of the home invasion, sexual assault and police-involved shooting. The VSP report states that the “decedent fled across the Rivanna River when confronted by law enforcement, failed to obey multiple verbal commands to stop and drop his firearm, repeatedly challenged officers, demanded that officers kill him on multiple occasions, and presented a handgun in a threatening manner.”

The report also found that Hawkins was hit with six bullets in his arms, shoulder and head.

State police and the prosecutor’s office also reviewed radio traffic, recordings from dashboard-mounted cameras on the responding cruisers and body-worn camera footage from responding officers. One of the body-cams captured three of the officers who had discharged their firearms giving aid to Hawkins.

State police also interviewed six of the officers who were at the scene. According to the report, the “lack of defensive cover in the river only heightened the physical threat presented to officers by the armed and fleeing suspect.”

Based on the VSP report and its own inquiries, the county commonwealth’s attorney’s office found that the use of force by city police was “objectively reasonable and no criminal charges are justified.”

The city’s acting police chief, Gary Pleasants, said he received a copy of the report late Friday afternoon. He said he will determine when the officers will return from administrative leave after the Christmas holiday.

“While this incident was a tragic one, we are pleased with the result of the thorough investigation conducted by the Virginia State Police and Mr. Tracci,” a city police department spokesman said in a news release.