NEWPORT NEWS

Jan. 27 — Kelly Parsley Jackson (39, Newport News) shot to death in her home on Harrington Road in front of her 9-year-old daughter. Police arrested her husband, Rodney Bolivia Jackson (44, Newport News) and charged him with murder.

March 13 – Terrance Lawayne Williamson (37, Newport News) shot to death at the Pine Court Apartments on Dresden Drive. Victim was visiting someone and was shot as he left the apartment. Police believe he had been in a verbal altercation with someone earlier in the evening. On May 19, police arrested Kwame Shahee Drayton, 18; his brother Stephen Earl Drayton, 20; De’Andre James Sample, 22; and Philip Michael Turner, 23, all of Newport News, and charged them with murder, conspiracy and the use of a firearm in commission of a felony.

March 25 — Joshua Brooks (1 month, Newport News) taken unconscious from home in the 500 block of Logan Place. Pronounced dead at local hospital. No charges have been filed, but the case remains under investigation.

April 12 – Curtis Leroy Neal (27, Newport News) found shot to death in the 800 block of 21st Street. A relative heard a knock at the door and found the man lying on the porch. No suspect information.

May 16 – Jeffrey Alan Summers (51, Newport News) shot during home invasion on South Menchville Road. He died the next morning in a local hospital. Home invasion involved three armed suspects. Police found large amounts of drugs and cash in the residence.

July 3 – Khylief Thorpe (22, Newport News) was found shot to death inside a residence in the 300 block of 72nd Street. Police responded to the residence after receiving information from Norfolk police regarding the location of a homicide victim. His roommate, Ian Altman (21, Newport News), was arrested after being found unconscious in a Norfolk hotel room and transported to a hospital.

July 5 – Tony Dewayne Broadway (34, Newport News) found dead in rear courtyard of apartment complex on Antrim Drive. No cause of death announced. No suspect information.

Aug. 19 – Crystal Ragin (32, Newport News), Sierra Ragin (15, Newport News), Rasheed Ragin (10, Newport News) and Lakwan Ragin (6, Newport News) found stabbed to death and partially burned in an apartment on Old Courthouse Way. The four bodies were found by an apartment maintenance worker. Warrants were filed charging the father, John Moses Ragin (36, Newport News) with four homicides. Ragin was located on Aug. 20 in Manning, S.C., along with his 5-year-old son. He contacted police and was taken into custody but denied any involvement with the homicides. Extradited to Newport News.

Sept. 3 – Melvin Burkett (52, Newport News) stabbed in back, arm and chest during an altercation outside his mobile home. He died after being transported to a local hospital. Matthew Pearson (43, Newport News) was charged with murder.

Oct. 2 – Troy Duvall Johnson (23, Hampton) shot to death in Roadside Cafe, in the 4400 block of Jefferson Avenue, around 8:30 p.m. One or two gunmen entered the restaurant, opened fire, and fled. No suspect information.

Dec. 2 – Christopher Ravon Southerland (16, Newport News) found shot to death in the backyard of a house in the 3300 block of Roanoke Avenue. Police believe he may have been shot at a nearby street corner. Residents said they heard gunshots on the night of Dec. 1 but did not call police until the body was spotted the next morning. No suspect information.

Dec. 10 – Crystal Bryant (21, Newport News) shot to death in the 600 block of 34th Street. Witnesses told police that a man called out to her and then shot her in the abdomen. No suspect information.

HAMPTON

Jan. 29 – Natalynn Hamrick (11 months, Hampton) injured and unconscious in a parking lot on Cunningham Drive. The child died on Feb. 3 at a local hospital. Investigation revealed that the child had been shaken in the parking lot. The child’s mother, Carliece Hamrick (23, Hampton) was charged with murder and child abuse

Feb. 19 –Harold Houston Hayslett Jr. (58, Hampton) stabbed to death in a trailer park on Shell Road. Police determined he was stabbed to death during an argument with another man. Kenneth Howard Newkirk (43, Hampton) was arrested later that day and charged with murder.

April 20 – Tyler Reid Jones (19, Hampton) found in the 1800 block of Newton Road suffering from multiple gunshot wounds. Transported to local hospital and died the next morning. No suspect information.

July 2 — Ricky Keon Calloway (21, Hampton) shot to death in an exchange of gunfire with the occupants of a blue sedan. On Sept. 17, Kwaume Laray Edwards (22, Newport News) was arrested in Wake County, N.C. and charged with homicide. Two other men, Marcus Troy Moody and Prince Jhamier Bell, had already been charged with murder.

July 2 – Debra Goodson (56, Hampton) stabbed multiple times at a residence in the 500 block of Greenbriar Avenue. She died of her injuries on Aug. 9. Her son, Vernon Lavalle Goodson (28, Hampton) was charged with murder.

July 11 – Vinnesha Michelle Hunter (19, Hampton) shot to death in her home on Carolina Street when she is struck with a stray bullet. Police report that the occupants of a dark-colored vehicle were shooting at the occupants of a red vehicle as they drove through the neighborhood.

July 19 – Chavez Tyson Williams (36, Hampton) was shot in the 400 block of Chapel Street by someone in a passing vehicle. Transported to local hospital and pronounced dead early on the morning of July 20. Robert Glennard Gary Jr. (36, Newport News) was charged with murder.

Aug. 31 – Richard Glenn Redick Jr. (22, airman stationed in South Dakota) shot to death during an argument on Doolittle Road. The police identified the suspect as Marcus Devall Wingate (23, Hampton). Wingate was arrested on Oct. 18 and charged with murder.

YORK

June 9 – Felice Hickey (39, York) stabbed to death in her apartment on Arcadia Loop. McCoy S. Johnson (43, Newport News) is charged with murder. Police say he had “a brief past relationship” with Hickey.

July 10 – Kuan-Yu Trevillian (48, Williamsburg) is found dead in the high grass alongside Cliftons Bluff Road. She had been reported missing the night before. No cause of death was strangulation. On Nov. 15, her husband, Barton Dale Trevillian (60, Williamsburg) was arrested and charged with murder.

Nov. 18 – Unidentified child (9 months, York) removed unresponsive from home in 200 block of Burts Road, pronounced dead at hospital. Investigation revealed child died of injuries sustained from being shaken. The child’s mother, Sabrina Battad (20, York) charged with murder.

WILLIAMSBURG

Dec. 18 – Dontae Jamar Howard (23, Yorktown) shot in the 300 block of York Street. Two other shooting victims sustained minor injuries. Howard died at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital on Dec. 20. Investigators identified Tyshaun Lenard Thomas (31, Newport News) as the suspect. He remains at large,

JAMES CITY

Aug. 26 – Tabbitha Russell (27, James City County) stabbed to death in an altercation with another woman at the Windy Hill Trailer Park on Judy Drive. Pronounced dead at the scene. On Sept. 9, police charged Stephanie Nicole Bozarth (27, James City) with murder.

Nov. 4 – Elston “Deon” Brown (25, James City County) shot in the side in the 90 block of Theodore Allen Road. Glenn Holland (19, Williamsburg) fled the scene on foot but later turned himself in and was charged with first-degree murder.

GLOUCESTER

June 5 – Jonathon McKinsey (28, Gloucester) shot to death at his girlfriend’s home on Gloucester Road. Keith P. Ketch (38, Gloucester), the woman’s estranged husband, then threatened his wife and children before shooting himself. Murder-suicide.

July 27 – Karen Kelly (48, Gloucester) shot in the head and pronounced dead at the scene at a residence on Hickory Fork Road. Police charged Richard Earl Witcher (30, Gloucester) with first-degree murder.

SUFFOLK

June 29 – Brandon Alexander Alston (20, Suffolk) found dead in home on Blackstone Way. Police responded after receiving reports of gunshots.

Nov. 8 – Deborah Marlow Wigg (39, Suffolk) shot to death in her home on Grove Avenue. She had told police that her estranged husband, in violation of a restraining order, had forced his way into the home. Robert Lyndon Wigg (43, of Virginia Beach) was found shot to death at the home of Deborah Wigg’s parents. Police believe it is a murder-suicide.

Dec. 13 – Kathryn Laine (47, Suffolk) stabbed to death in her home on Lookout Circle. Police say her husband, Steven Laine (50, Suffolk) killed her and then committed suicide by carbon-monoxide poisoning.

NORFOLK

Feb. 9 – Michael K. Patillo (37, Virginia Beach) found dead on Norview Avenue. Cause of death was gunshot wound. No suspect information.

Feb. 13 – Antonio Knight (27, Norfolk) found shot to death in his white 2007 Nissan Altima in the 2400 block of Myrtle Avenue. No suspect information. On Oct. 17, Katrina Yvette Williams (44, Norfolk) was arrested and charged with murder.

Feb. 27 – Henrico Lamonte White (19, Norfolk) shot at a location near the intersection of Berkley Avenue and Appomattox Street. He died hours later at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital. No suspect information.

March 4 – Karen Rene Hoffman (41, Norfolk) found dead in her home on Chesapeake Boulevard. No cause of death has been reported. Her boyfriend, Frederick Thomas Hoskins (Norfolk) was arrested in Florida where he was found with her missing car. He was returned to Virginia and charged with murder.

March 26 – Anthony Troy McKinney (43, Virginia Beach) shot in the 900 block of Mapole Avenue. He was pronounced dead at a local hospital. No suspect information.

May 6 – Jacques Cowell (20, Chesapeake) stabbed to death in the 5500 block of Raby Road. Pronounced dead at the scene. Deandre Moore (18, Norfolk) charged with murder.

June 10 – Christopher Cummings (20, ODU student from Northern Virginia) shot to death on West 42nd Street. A second shooting victim survived. No suspect information.

June 15 – Louis A. Daniel Jr. (77, Norfolk) found dead on Cromwell Parkway. On June 22, Eugene Williams (Norfolk) was arrested and charged with burglary. Police later added the murder charge against Williams.

June 16 – Richard Benjamin Harris (30, Norfolk) shot in the 800 block of Church Street. Dies after being driven to the hospital. Police identify Wesley B. Walker III (30, Norfolk) as the suspect.

June 18 – Dekar Jones (32, Norfolk) shot to death in the 1700 block of Selden Avenue after an altercation. A woman also sustained non-fatal injuries. Police have identified the suspects as Rashad Amard Deering (28, Norfolk), Marcus Jerome Deering (20, Norfolk), and Jayquon Terrell Norman (23, Norfolk).

June 20 – Prince Albert Heart (Virginia Beach) shot at a location near 19th Street and Omohundro Avenue. He died the next day at the hospital. No suspect information.

July 9 – Andre Javan Elliot (35, Norfolk) shot in residence on Pelam Road. Pronounced dead at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital. His roommate, Rashan Edward Burke (34, Norfolk) was charged with murder.

July 11 – Reginald Lamont Davis (41, Norfolk) found shot to death at location on Pendleton Street. His neighbor, Mark Williams (20, Norfolk) was charged with second-degree murder.

Aug. 6 — Timothy Jenkins (33, Norfolk) shot in the head as he rode in the back seat of an SUV on eastbound Interstate 264 just west of Military Highway around 2 a.m. The gunshots may have been fired from a dark, four-door sedan. State police believe the shooting may have stemmed from an altercation on Plume Street in Norfolk. No suspect information.

Aug. 12 — Sherrod D. Brown (29, Portsmouth) shot to death at location on Bagnall Road around 4:30 a.m. Pronounced dead at the scene. Police are looking for Kai Renard Johnson (30, Norfolk) has been called a “person of interest,” but he has not been formally identified as a suspect.

Aug. 21 – Michelle Buey (27, Norfolk) found dead in her apartment in the 8100 block of LaMesa Avenue. No cause of death reported. No suspect information. Charlene Mitchell (38, Norfolk) is charged with murder.

Aug. 25 – Kameron Collier (19, Norfolk) shot after an argument on Aspin Street. He died of his injuries on Aug. 31. On 10/11, police identified Montrell Davis (22, Virginia Beach) as the suspect. He remains at large.

Aug. 26 – Ricardo L. Lamb Sr. (56, Norfolk) found stabbed to death in his apartment in the 100 block of Indian River Road. His brother, Eric Dean Lamb (49, Norfolk) was arrested and charged with murder.

Oct. 4 – Rogerick Joell Elliott (29, Norfolk) found dead in the back seat of a car on Norcova Avenue. No word on cause of death, or on how long the body had been there.

Oct,. 18 – Damani Wiggins (19, Norfolk) shot to death at a location in the 500 block of Ruffner Street. No suspect information.

Nov. 6 – Phillip Doxey (21, Norfolk) shot to death in a parking lot on the 500 block of Ashlawn Drive. Marcus Shan Young (21, Norfolk) turned himself in and is charged with murder.

Nov. 12 – Anderson Britt (42, Norfolk) shot to death in the 5900 block of Virginia Beach Boulevard. No suspect information.

Nov. 15 – Darelle J. Williams (21, Norfolk) shot to death. Found with gunshot wounds in the 800 block of A Avenue and pronounced dead at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital. Police determined the shooting occurred in the 800 block of Fremont Street. The suspect has been identified as Javontay D. Jones (19, Norfolk). He remains at large.

PORTSMOUTH

Feb. 25 – Linda Gay Carroll (64, Portsmouth) stabbed to death in her apartment at Effingham Plaza on Madison Street. Stabbed multiple times in the upper body. On April 8, police arrested Bruce Williams (51, Portsmouth) and charged him with murder.

March 6 – Gloria M. Johnson (47, Portsmouth) found stabbed to death in the roadway in the 1100 block of Wilcox Avenue. No suspect information, but police believe it may be related to the Feb. 25 stabbing death of Linda Carroll, but no arrest has been made yet.

April 16 – James Kenneth Britt (49, Portsmouth) is reported missing from his home on Moonlit Avenue. Evidence at the scene suggested the possibility of foul play. He has not been located, and on Sept. 7 a judge declared him deceased. Police are investigating it as a homicide.

April 22 – Larry Donell Washington (33, Suffolk) shot to death in the 1600 block of Atlanta Avenue. No suspect information.

May 14 – Jalisa Knight (21, Virginia Beach) shot to death in a car in the 1100 block of Mount Vernon Avenue just after midnight. She was pronounced dead at the scene. No suspect information.

June 6 – Mary Cadreau (95, Portsmouth) found shot to death along with her husband, Alfred Cadreau (86) in their home on Sarazen Drive. Police believe Alfred Cadreau shot his wife and then himself in a murder-suicide.

Aug. 31 – Leon Golliday Jr. (32, Portsmouth) was found shot to death in the 3700 block of Columbia Street. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Sept. 21 – Raheim Hason Stokes (28, Portsmouth) found dead behind George’s Market on Des Moines Avenue. Apparent gunshot, but no determination of when he died. No suspect information.

Oct. 25 – Barry Donald Timberlake (31, Portsmouth) found shot to death in the back yard of a home in the 1200 block of Portsmouth Boulevard. No suspect information.

Nov. 7 – Michelle Renee McClendon (42, Portsmouth) shot to death in the 400 block of Chautauqua Avenue. No suspect information.

Nov. 14 – Samuel L. Martin (44, Portsmouth) found dead in a back yard of an unoccupied home on Cushing Street. Cause of death determined to be trauma to the head. No suspect information.

Dec. 15 – Anthony Jarvis Ferguson (53, Portsmouth) found dead on his front porch in the 1600 block of Prentis Avenue. Initially thought to have died of medical conditions, but autopsy revealed a gunshot wound. No suspect information.

VIRGINIA BEACH

Feb. 17 – James Winston Blanke (83, Virginia Beach) stabbed to death in his home in the 1800 block of Castleton Court. His son, Winston James Blanke (52, Virginia Beach) is charged with murder.

March 20 — Andrew Cornelius Willie Jr. (29, Virginia Beach) shot outside the After Midnight club in the 700 block of South Military Highway around 4:18 a.m. Pronounced dead at hospital. Witnesses described two suspects in hooded sweatshirts.

March 27 — Chiquita Long (36, Norfolk) was shot to death in a vehicle on a parking lot in the 800 block of Baker Road. Another shooting victim, Rahkim Goodwin (20, Norfolk), died later that night at a local hospital. Police determined Goodwin killed Long and then shot himself. Murder-suicide.

April 4 – Christian Lamour (5, Virginia Beach) died after being transported by his mother to the Portsmouth Naval Hospital with stomach pain. The cause of death remains under investigation. Che Ernest Hazell (29, Virginia Beach) was arrested in April. In October, Hazell and the boy’s mother, Christy Ronsha Lamour (30, Virginia Beach) were both indicted for second-degree murder, involuntary manslaughter and other charges.

April 4 – Donna L. Butcher (40, Virginia Beach) and Stephen P. Butcher (43, Virginia Beach) are both shot in what police are calling a domestic incident in their home on Maplehurst Drive. Stephen Butcher was dead at the scene. Donna Butcher died at a local hospital. The medical examiner determined that Stephen Butcher killed his wife and then took his own life. Murder-suicide.

April 7 – Judith K. Osborne (66, Virginia Beach) found shot to death in her home on Barkleaf Drive. Her husband, David S. Osborne (78, Virginia Beach) was also found shot to death. Police and the medical examiner determined that David Osborne shot his wife and then killed himself. Murder-suicide.

May 11 – Shawn Thomas Ross (23, Virginia Beach) transported to a local hospital with gunshot wounds and pronounced dead. Police determined that he was attempting an armed home invasion robbery on Rose Marie Avenue when one of the residents shot him. Police interviewed the shooter. No charges have been filed.

May 27 – Tyler Lynn-Gainous (21, Virginia Beach) shot to death at a location on Weaver Drive. Police arrested Michael Jemar McLean (32, Virginia Beach) and charged him with murder.

May 21 – Darrel Spencer (20, Norfolk) shot to death in 7-Eleven parking lot in 300 block of Lynnhaven Parkway. Pronounced dead in a vehicle. Two others survived gunshot wounds. Police say a dispute broke out in the store’s parking lot among people who had left the club Hangar 09. Lester Belmar (28, Portsmouth), a security guard at the club, was interviewed at the scene and was charged with murder on June 21.

June 4 – Kody Michael Scrunton (17, Norfolk) found shot to death near Diamond Springs Park, behind civic league building, in 5600 block of Haden Road. On June 14, police arrested a 16-year-old male and charged him with second-degree murder.

July 5 – Eugene McNeely (80, Virginia Beach) and Mary McNeely (84, Virginia Beach) found dead in their home on West Colonial Parkway when officers are dispatched to check on their welfare. The cause of death was blunt force trauma. Their grandson, Donta Jarma Brown (36, Virginia Beach) was arrested on drug charges, and on 11/29 he was charged with their murders.

July 23 – Cordero Daniel Simpkins (22, Virginia Beach) shot to death just after midnight at a location on 18th Street near the Oceanfront. Police report that Simpkins and some friends got into an altercation with several males that led to gunshots. On 8/2, police arrested Eric Levon Davis Jr. (22, Hampton) and charged him with murder.

Sept. 2 – Antone D. Brehon (27, Norfolk) shot to death during an altercation involving several people at the Bridle Creek Apartment complex on Halter Drive. In November, police arrested George Shashawn Tyree Gay (18, Virginia Beach) and charged him with murder. Police later arrested a second suspect, Jordan Austin (21, Virginia Beach) and charged him with murder.

Nov. 28 – Kimauri Williams (19 months, Virginia Beach) dies at Virginia Beach General Hospital after being brought unresponsive to the emergency room with bruises. His mother, Shaniqua Jones (21, Virginia Beach) and her boyfriend Alvin Gatewood (29, Virginia Beach) are charged with felony child abuse and neglect.

Dec. 12 – Milton Sweat (60, Norfolk) shot near the intersection of Crow’s Nest Court and Summit Arch. Transported to hospital by friends. Died at Leigh Memorial Hospital. On Dec. 21, police arrested Tarion Dequay Williams (18, Norfolk) and charged him with murder.

CHESAPEAKE

Jan. 18 — Joel Pittman (23, Portsmouth) was shot to death at a location on Hoover Avenue and found lying in the suspect’s front yard. Tashaun Sherrod (18, Chesapeake) was arrested and charged with homicide.

March 21 – Patricia Mackenzie (55, Chesapeake) shot to death in her home on Holston River Court. Her husband, Norfolk police lieutenant William Mackenzie (52, Chesapeake) was also found dead of a gunshot wound. Preliminary investigation indicates that William Mackenzie shot his wife and then killed himself.

April 2 – Susan Griffin (45, Chesapeake) reported missing. Her body was found on April 5 in a shed behind her home on Blue Bill Court. Warrants were filed charging her roommate Pritchard Hoggard (62, Chesapeake) with murder. Hoggard died on April 5 of self-inflicted poisoning. Murder-suicide.

April 5 – Jared C. Geiger (42, Chesapeake) found dead in his residence on Edna Street. No cause of death has been disclosed. Vantino Robinson (37, Chesapeake) is arrested and charged with murder.

Aug. 13 — Terrance Moore (31, Norfolk) shot to death in an apartment in the 2000 block of Chesapeake Drive shortly before 6 a.m. Died later that day at hospital. Suspect Antoine Lorenzo Bowden (27, Chesapeake) remains at large.

Aug. 20 – Daevon Shaquille Miller (18, Norfolk) shot to death in parking lot of El Patron Cantina at Sam’s Drive off Battlefield Boulevard. Pronounced dead at the scene. No suspect information.

Sept. 21 – Marquise Williams (21, Norfolk) found shot to death near the intersection of Bethel Road and Algona Road. No suspect information.

Oct. 11 – Jesse P. Tharrington (23, Norfolk) shot to death during a burglary at a home on Nottaway Drive. Police believe Tharrington was one of three suspects who broke into the home. A second shooting victim sustained injuries.

Oct. 19 – Owen Ottinger (31, Chesapeake) shot to death through the storm door of his home in the 4400 block of Bainbridge Boulevard. He died two days later. Two suspects fled the scene. No suspect information.

Nov. 10 – Dequane Hallums (20, Chesapeake) found shot to death in the 2500 block of Campostella Road. Police have descriptions of three possible suspects, all black males in their late teens or early 20s.

EASTERN SHORE

Dec. 15 – Zayday Reyes (20, Accomack), Evelyn Colon-Matias (27, Accomack), Jesus Angel Quintero-Colon (10, Accomack), Ana Estefani Quintero-Colon (9, Accomack) and Esteban Quintero-Gonzales (37, Accomack) all found shot to death in a trailer on 6th Street. Investigators determined that Esteban Quintero-Gonzales forced his way into the trailer and killed all four people inside, including his two children and his estranged wife. He then committed suicide.

POLICE SHOOTINGS

Jan. 13 in Newport News – Dave Henry Bailey (35, Williamsburg) shot to death by Newport News police after he raised a gun at them during a traffic stop.

Feb. 20 in Virginia Beach — Charleston Detron Newby (26, Virginia Beach) shot to death by Virginia Beach police officers following a vehicle pursuit that ended when he crashed his SUV into a police car on West Hastings Arch. Commonwealth’s attorney Harvey Bryant determined that the shooting was justified, and no charges were pursued against the officers.

April 23 in Portsmouth – Kirill Ivanovich Denyakin (26, Kazakh native living in Portsmouth) shot to death by Portsmouth police when he lunged at officers during a suspected burglary at an apartment building on Green Street.

June 18 in Hampton – William A. Cooper (69, Hampton) shot to death by Hampton police after he fired at detectives during a narcotics raid at his home on Clifton Street.

Sept. 6 in Norfolk – Kenneth Lorenzo Smallwood (20, Norfolk) shot to death by Norfolk police officer after a confrontation at the Southland Apartment Complex on Fort Worth Avenue in which the suspect put his car in reverse and ran into the police car behind which the officer was positioned. Prosecutors determined the shooting was justified, and no charges were filed.

Nov. 6 in Newport News – Robert Christopher Burchfield (40, Hampton) shot to death in a standoff with police after an incident that began with an abduction in York County. Police cornered the man at Spring Trace Lane, a cul de sac in Newport News. The man was shot to death.