Deputy Eric Rasnake walked into the Buchanan County Sheriff’s Office on Thursday afternoon for the first time since he was shot nearly two weeks ago.

The crowd waiting for him cheered and cried and shouted “welcome home.” They had buttons pinned to their shirts picturing four faces: the two deputies killed and the two others wounded in a March 13 firefight on a mountain road just a few miles south.

Rasnake’s return was a much-anticipated silver lining for the department that just last week buried two of their own.

“This is what the guys have been looking forward to,” Buchanan County Chief Deputy Alan Honaker said. “It’s emotional for all of us – to be here celebrating Eric, but in the back of our minds we all know we lost two comrades.”

On that Sunday afternoon, Randy Gilbert Newberry, a 52-year-old local man with no criminal history and no apparent motive, rained bullets on Rasnake and his partner and best friend, Deputy Shane Charles.

One bullet went into Rasnake’s shoulder, through his lung and came out through his back. Another pierced his chest and a third shot into the back of his head.

His wife, Angel Rasnake, said Thursday that she cannot believe that 11 days later, he is already up and walking.

Charles was hit in the arm and the lower part of his back. At first doctors thought he would be paralyzed from the waist down. But in less than a week, he started feeling his legs again. Sheriff Ray Foster said Charles was moved from Holston Valley Medical Center to a hospital in Atlanta, where they are hopeful he will make a full recovery.

“I can’t wait ’til Shane drags in here, too,” a deputy said to Rasnake at Thursday’s party. Rasnake replied that he plans to personally escort him.

“He’ll probably try to one-up you,” the deputy said. “He may repel in. You came in a vehicle, he’ll probably come by helicopter.”

More than half of Foster’s department was on that street that Sunday, all pinned down behind cars and houses, while their friends and co-workers were shot.

“We’re trying to heal,” Foster said. “Last week, this was an open wound. Now, it’s scabbed over. Later on, it’ll be a scar. We will heal, and we’re all gonna have to heal in our own way.”

Deputies Billy Stiltner, 46, of Maxie, Va., and Neil Justus, 41, of Hurley, Va., died at the scene.

Angel Rasnake said her husband hasn’t talked much about that day. He lost two of his best friends and a third is still in the hospital.

On Thursday, he cut into a “Welcome Back” cake with his 3-year-old son, Tyler, on his lap.

“I’m tickled to death to see him back,” Foster said. “It helps lift the spirit of this department, just seeing him here.”

Honaker said they hope Rasnake will be fully improved and back to work in a few months. In the meantime, other deputies are volunteering to cover shifts.

Virginia State Police Sgt. Steve Lowe said the investigation into the incident is ongoing. No search warrants related to the shooting have been filed in Buchanan County Circuit Court, the clerk said.

Foster said he’s heard many rumors about what might have prompted Newberry to open fire on his deputies, but he’s not convinced any are the truth. He doesn’t suspect he’ll ever know the truth.

“I have to look at it and say, there was a reason for this. I don’t know what it was, but there has to be a reason in God’s plan.”

(276) 645-2531