Henrico County police said this afternoon that its officers and a James City County jewelry store robbery suspect exchanged fire at "several locations" before he was critcally wounded Tuesday after crashing near Charles City and Williamsburg roads.

Three officers have been given administrative assignments while an investigation into the shootings and chase continues, a spokesman said.

In Henrico's first detailed account of the pursuit, a news release said the unidentified suspect was taken to VCU Medical Center with life-threatening injuries. Police earlier today said the man was on life support.

Henrico police said they are still looking for Eric D. Roach, 40, of Philadelphia, who is described in federal court documents as a felon with a history of convictions for interstate transportation of stolen goods. He was sentenced to 44 months in prison and in June 2009 began three years’ supervised probation.

Roach also was ordered to make restitution of $484,031, according to federal documents filed in Philadelphia on Wednesday.

Roach pleaded guilty to conspiring with others to steal more than $880,000 worth of Cartier and Rolex watches and diamond jewelry in California, Las Vegas and Miami in 2001 and 2002, according to court records.

Henrico gave this account of the chase after the jewelry store was robbed about 11 a.m.

After being spotted about 11:25 a.m. on state Route 5 in Charles City County by an officer there, the suspect vehicle crossed into Henrico where it was soon additionally followed by Virginia State Police and Henrico officers.

The suspect SUV then took Interstate 295 north to U.S. 60 (Williamsburg Road), turning right onto Technology Boulevard near the U.S. Postal Service mail processing facility, Henrico said.

As the chase approached Elko Tract Road, the suspect vehicle stopped and Roach "bailed out" and ran into the woods, Henrico said. The remaining suspect exchanged gunfire with Henrico officers and took off again.

The chase ended when the vehicle crashed on Charles City Road behind a Food Lion that fronts on Williamsburg Road.

The news release said a state trooper suffered minor injuries on his right arm from glass shards after a bullet fired by the suspect ricoheted off the hood of his cruiser and struck the window. That happened near Technology and Elko Tract, Henrico said, but the news release did not specify the time of that incident.