The speeding motorcyclist who crashed and died as Bloomington police tried to catch up to him Wednesday night had left jail the evening before, just the latest in a long line of run-ins with the law.

The State Patrol said the motorcyclist was speeding north on Xerxes Avenue S. shortly before 7:30 p.m. when he hit a curb and then a road sign while turning left onto W. 98th Street.

The man's girlfriend and Hennepin County medical examiner identified him as Andrew J. Fischer, 27, of Prior Lake.

"He was supposed to be moving back up here [Thursday] morning," said Ashley Hanson, of Fargo. "He had just gotten out of jail not even 24 hours before this happened.

"He was going to call me ... and I didn't hear from him. I called his cellphone, and somebody at the hospital answered and told me he was in a wreck."

Fischer had been living with Hanson and her two children in Fargo until about five months ago, she said. "Andrew was obviously in their lives the last couple years," she said.

However, Hanson continued, Fischer felt the need to return to Prior Lake to live with his mother in an effort to put his drug use and other problems behind him.

Fischer was booked into the Hennepin County jail on Saturday by police in Rogers and charged with receiving stolen property, according to jail records. He posted bond and was released Tuesday night.

Less than 24 hours later, he was dead.

Bloomington police said they were responding to a report of a motorcycle speeding on W. Old Shakopee Road. "Prior to the crash, we were never close enough to obtain a license plate or registration number," said Deputy Police Chief Mike Hartley.

Fischer's driver's license was suspended at the time of the crash, said a spokeswoman for the state Department of Public Safety.

Court records in Minnesota show that Fischer has been convicted many times for a wide range of offenses dating to early 2009: five times for theft, four times for burglary, twice for financial transaction card fraud and once for assault.

He's also been convicted twice for driving after having his license suspended and twice for speeding, with one of those times being clocked at 97 miles per hour in a 60-mph zone.