NEW BRUNSWICK -- An off-duty Long Branch police officer who fatally struck a woman in Long Branch last month has been issued reckless and careless driving summonses, authorities said Friday.

Jake Pascucci, 28, was driving a 2016 Jeep Cherokee southbound on Ocean Boulevard when the vehicle hit Karen Borkowski at the Broadway intersection as she crossed the road around 8:15 p.m. on Sept. 22, authorities said.

Middlesex County Prosecutor Andrew Carey said criminal charges are being considered. The investigation into the incident is continuing.

Officer Jake Pascucci was named "Cop of the Month" in February 2015. (Long Branch Police Department Facebook page)

Pascucci told officers at the scene he had a green light and that Borkowski was jaywalking, according to dashboard camera video from police at the scene.

"She walked right in front of me, jaywalking," he can be heard saying in the video. "I have a green light, going this way, southbound. She walked right out in front of me."

Borkowski, 66, of Stanhope, was pronounced dead at the scene.

A police report filed by the Long Branch Police Department did not include the speed Pascucci was traveling.

The crash was initially under investigation by the Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office. However, the case was transferred to Middlesex County to avoid a conflict of interest because Pascucci was part of an investigation led by the prosecutor's office in Monmouth County.

Pascucci's status as an officer is unclear. Long Branch acting police Chief Jason Roebuck said Thursday that he needed to check if he could release that information. He said on Friday that he didn't have a chance to check on the officer's status, and declined to comment on the summonses.

A message left for Pascucci was not immediately returned.

Pascucci has been a member of the Long Branch police force since August 2014. Before that, he was a full-time officer in Oceanport for a couple years and a part-time special officer in Long Branch.

He was recognized by the Long Branch Police Department as the "Cop of the Month" in February 2015.

Anyone with information may call (732) 745-8842.

Alex Napoliello may be reached at anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @alexnapoNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips