Tallahassee Police waited a week after notifying City Hall to divulge to the public a use of force case in which a man was tased by officers and would later die.

Aaron M. Parker, 20, died Friday but stopped breathing briefly after an altercation last week with police outside of a Burger King on Tennessee Street.

TPD Chief Michael DeLeo said the call originated as a medical call which then escalated into a public safety issue. Parker’s death changed the nature of the case, prompting the release of information.

More:Our opinion: Troubling timeline for TPD in tasing

At about 10:40 p.m. on Feb. 10, Parker was reportedly naked and “acting erratically” – described in a TPD recount of the incident as “excited delirium" – outside of the restaurant.

He was bleeding, sweating profusely and lying in the median of West Tennessee Street. Traffic was shut down in an attempt to limit his interaction with passing vehicles. Saturday, crime scene tape remained along a fence in the median.

Officers attempted to subdue him and he began to punch violently, according to TPD, and hit an officer. Sgt. David Northway used his Taser and handcuffed him.

Northway has not been put on administrative leave.

Parker was given sedatives by emergency medical service officials to keep him from overheating, was loaded into an ambulance and stopped breathing. He was revived by CPR and hospitalized. The cause of his death is still being investigated.

Emails from Assistant City Manager Cynthia Barber obtained by the Tallahassee Democrat, show that city commissioners and the mayor were notified of the incident shortly after it happened. Parker was in stable condition until Friday when his condition worsened to critical.

The email went out at 6:56 p.m. Feb. 10 and indicates the incident may have happened the night before, different from the day noted in a TPD press release.

Police and city officials monitored Parker's condition up until Friday. In another email from Barber, who oversees the police department and public safety, she said his condition was "tenuous at best.

“Please let me know if you have questions or concerns regarding this matter,” Barber wrote.

TPD announced the first details of the case and his death to the public at about 9:45 p.m. Friday.

DeLeo said the circumstances surrounding medical calls aren't normally released to the public and neither are instances when police are involved in minor altercations like using a Taser.

“As you know the incident is under investigation and we don’t provide details of a pre-conceived notion of a situation until its completed,” DeLeo said. “We don’t normally notify the media of medical calls. They’re not criminal in nature and we don’t notify the media every time a taser is deployed or someone is pushed or hit.

“Right away we were very transparent about notifying everybody of what occurred because (Parker’s death) changed the nature of the call and the investigation.”

City Commissioner Gil Ziffer said information regarding the incident should have been more forthcoming and timely.

“I wasn’t aware that we hadn’t put a press release out," Ziffer said. "I think that’s typically something we do when an incident like this occurs and I intend to find out why that wasn’t done. I need to find out what happened.”

City Manager Reese Goad, who was out of town leaving Barber as acting city manager at the time of the incident, said the decision to alert the public to the altercation with Parker rested on TPD. But he said, it was unfair to look through the lens of a week's time.

"We’re made aware of information – we share it with commissioners via email and text to make sure they’re knowledgeable of circumstances. That doesn’t trigger any other responses. Any public communication is provided by TPD,” Goad said. "TPD has demonstrated that it routinely and aggressively notifies the public and the media regarding serious public matters. To take it only to this incident is unfair because I think you know TPD works very diligently to inform the public about situations. You’re asking me in hindsight to talk about this one and I don’t think that’s fair.”

In November, Parker had a run-in with the Leon County Sheriff’s Office in which he was suicidal and perched atop a tower off Blountstown Street, according to court records.

LCSO deputies were called after Parker posted a video on social media to “tell my parents I’m sorry.”

They found him 50 feet up in the air on a tower left from an old concrete plant. He was talked down by deputies and charged with possession of Xanax.

TPD has a history of charged use-of-force incidents that have resulted in millions of dollars in legal settlements and heightened scrutiny.

MORE

From 2014: 'You can't just go around tasing grandmas'

Police use of force probed in Frenchtown tasing

City approves $475,000 settlement in Christina West case

In 2014, it came under fire following the use of a Taser on 61-year-old Viola Davis in the back as she walked away from officers on Dunn Street.

The year before, the city of Tallahassee paid out almost half-a-million dollars to settle a federal lawsuit brought by Christina West, who was left bloodied and injured in 2013 during an arrest captured on police dash-cam video. That incident led to the ouster of former TPD Chief Dennis Jones and hiring of DeLeo.

Anyone with information about the Parker case is asked to call TPD's Violent Crimes Unit at (850) 891-4200 or CrimeStoppers anonymously at (850) 574-TIPS.

Contact Karl Etters at ketters@tallahassee.com or @KarlEtters on Twitter.