The man shot by Moraine police early Friday wrote he “DID NOT think like a productive member of society” and asked for mental health assistance, according to a motion for judicial release he filed Nov. 24, 2015, while he was a prisoner at Lebanon Correctional Institution.

Jamarco D. McShann, 23, was shot and killed by Moraine police Friday morning while two officers responded to a suspicious vehicle report. Moraine police Chief Craig Richardson said McShann pointed a handgun at the officers.

LATEST: Moraine police shooting

DATABASE: Officer-involved shootings

QUESTIONS: What we’re working to find out

Jamarco McShann filed two separate motions for judicial release during his three-year sentence for three cases, the most recent one for having weapons under disability.

Jamarco McShann is the younger brother of Curtis McShann, who was sentenced earlier this month to 60 years to life in prison for the shooting death of Brandon Lanier in 2016.

RELATED: Dayton man guilty of murder in 2016 slaying

Jamarco McShann also had a younger brother, Jamal McShann, who was shot to death in October 2013 in Dayton.

RELATED: Alleged robbers shot; 1 dies at hospital

Credit: DaytonDailyNews

“I might have a chemical imbalance that causes me to have irrational thoughts,” Jamarco McShann wrote while requesting a release to join the MonDay treatment program. “The prison that I am in does not offer a class or counseling which will give me an in-depth look into my mind and why I think this way.”

Jamarco McShann was released from prison Aug. 2, 2016. Neither of his two motions for judicial release were granted by Montgomery County Common Pleas Court Judge Dennis Adkins.

In the November 2015 motion, McShann wrote that his institutional record “is not without imperfections” and that his fiance and young son were struggling financially.

Credit: DaytonDailyNews

He also wrote that two out of three children in the United States with at least one parent incarcerated go on to become incarcerated themselves.

PHOTOS: Scene of the shooting

“Although going to the MonDay program won’t allow me to help them financially,” he wrote, “it would help me figure out why I think this way and then I can help my son think in a more productive way.”

In a May 2015 motion for judicial release, McShann wrote that he and eight siblings were raised by his mother and he was working toward his GED despite learning disabilities.

“Mr. McShann is adamant on obtaining legal employment, and working his way up the ladder legally” said that motion, written in third person, later adding that he “has evolved into a new man who is ready to live a productive and positive life in society, not prison.”