HOUSTON, Texas (KTRK) -- A robbery suspect is dead after being hit with a taser then shot by a Houston police officer in the middle of Bellaire Boulevard Tuesday morning.

Crime scene technicians took photos of evidence that sat next to yellow markers. A pair of scissors and screwdriver were next to a taser.

Police say hours earlier, the robbery suspect used the scissors and screwdriver to threaten and rob workers at a CVS and McDonald's.

"It makes you aware that anything could happen, anytime, anyplace," said a man who didn't want to give his name, but came to watch officers investigate the scene.

Around 6:30 a.m. police say the suspect robbed a Southside Place CVS then rode a METRO bus to a McDonald's on Bellaire Boulevard near the Chimney Rock Road intersection. Executive Assistant Chief Matt Slinkard said the man waited for customers to leave the restaurant, then assaulted the manager.

"As the suspect exits the McDonald's, still with the screwdriver and a pair of scissors, one Bellaire officer and two HPD homicide officers encountered that suspect," Slinkard said.

Investigators say the suspect stood in the middle of a busy Bellaire Boulevard, refusing to drop the screwdriver or scissors.

Slinkard said the Bellaire officer and Houston officer both deployed their taser. The man was hit by one taser. Police say it had no effect on him and he continued to threaten the officers. At that point, the Houston officer shot him. Slinkard said he wasn't sure how many times the suspect was hit.

The man died at Ben Taub Hospital.

"I do know he's a Hispanic male suspect, that's all I know. No other citizens aside from the manager at the McDonald's have been injured and no officers have been injured in this incident," Slinkard said.

As is protocol, the Houston officer who shot the man will be placed on leave while the investigation continues.

ABC13 Courtney Fischer is on the scene and will have live updates on Eyewitness News at 11 a.m.

Report a typo to the ABC13 staff