Justice in Memphis, TN. ? Where the hell is it ? http://www.commercialappeal.com/mca/...783456,00.html





14 arrests, says father of car-jack suspect



Question follows chase by police





System continues to let him 'back on the street'





The suspected car-jacker who was arrested after a police chase that ended with a collision killing his passenger has a lengthy criminal record that includes endangering other drivers while in another stolen vehicle last year.

Tommy Johnson, 29, was charged Friday with vehicular homicide and three counts of aggravated assault for driving a 1997 Honda Accord into oncoming traffic while fleeing police and crashing into a Lincoln Town Car on Thursday, seriously injuring its three occupants. Johnson's passenger, Alicia Caldwell, 36, died in the wreck.

Johnson also was charged with resisting a stop, evading arrest with vehicle pursuit, three counts aggravated assault against the injured Lincoln's passengers, aggravated robbery and car-jacking the Accord on June 5.

Police are investigating whether the fleeing couple could be responsible for a chain of robberies, including one that precipitated the chase.

Johnson's father, Bobby Johnson of Southaven, said his son's apprehension Thursday was his son's 14th arrest in the past 18 months in DeSoto County and Memphis. The father also said he believed his son eventually would be involved in something like Thursday's crash.

But as far back as 2001, Tommy Johnson has been arrested for or charged with evading police, drug possession, burglary and carjacking. He was convicted of burglary in 2001 and 2003. He spent 45 days in jail until May 19 for violating probation, his father said.

In April 2005, Johnson was fleeing in a pickup he had just car-jacked when he drove over small trees from a parking lot onto Elvis Presley, according to court documents. The drivers of two other vehicles wrecked trying to get out of his way. The car-jack victim, who had jumped into the bed of the truck, was screaming for Johnson to stop.

"I saw it coming," said Bobby Johnson, who hasn't seen his son in a month. "He's been chased five or six times by Memphis police and has been arrested. The court system, whoever it is, continues to let him get back on the street. ... If they're letting him out they're letting other people out too."

He said police should have called off their pursuit of his son to avoid endangering other drivers. "They knew they'd catch him sooner or later anyway," the father added.

Police director Larry Godwin said Friday that the pursuit is under investigation.

-- Pamela Perkins: 529-6514 14 arrests, says father of car-jack suspectQuestion follows chase by policeSystem continues to let him 'back on the street'The suspected car-jacker who was arrested after a police chase that ended with a collision killing his passenger has a lengthy criminal record that includes endangering other drivers while in another stolen vehicle last year.Tommy Johnson, 29, was charged Friday with vehicular homicide and three counts of aggravated assault for driving a 1997 Honda Accord into oncoming traffic while fleeing police and crashing into a Lincoln Town Car on Thursday, seriously injuring its three occupants. Johnson's passenger, Alicia Caldwell, 36, died in the wreck.Johnson also was charged with resisting a stop, evading arrest with vehicle pursuit, three counts aggravated assault against the injured Lincoln's passengers, aggravated robbery and car-jacking the Accord on June 5.Police are investigating whether the fleeing couple could be responsible for a chain of robberies, including one that precipitated the chase.Johnson's father, Bobby Johnson of Southaven, said his son's apprehension Thursday was his son's 14th arrest in the past 18 months in DeSoto County and Memphis. The father also said he believed his son eventually would be involved in something like Thursday's crash.But as far back as 2001, Tommy Johnson has been arrested for or charged with evading police, drug possession, burglary and carjacking. He was convicted of burglary in 2001 and 2003. He spent 45 days in jail until May 19 for violating probation, his father said.In April 2005, Johnson was fleeing in a pickup he had just car-jacked when he drove over small trees from a parking lot onto Elvis Presley, according to court documents. The drivers of two other vehicles wrecked trying to get out of his way. The car-jack victim, who had jumped into the bed of the truck, was screaming for Johnson to stop."I saw it coming," said Bobby Johnson, who hasn't seen his son in a month. "He's been chased five or six times by Memphis police and has been arrested. The court system, whoever it is, continues to let him get back on the street. ... If they're letting him out they're letting other people out too."He said police should have called off their pursuit of his son to avoid endangering other drivers. "They knew they'd catch him sooner or later anyway," the father added.Police director Larry Godwin said Friday that the pursuit is under investigation.-- Pamela Perkins: 529-6514

__________________