Deputy's autopsy shows 33 woundsRoane sheriff: Bill Jones' body riddled by bullets in attackBy DON JACOBS, [email protected] May 14, 2006KINGSTON - The body of a slain Roane County sheriff's deputy bore 33 wounds from an alleged ambush by two brothers at a rural farmhouse, Sheriff David Haggard said Saturday.Autopsies were performed Saturday at the University of Tennessee forensic center on the bodies of deputy Bill Jones and his close friend, Mike Brown. Haggard said he had no information about the findings of Brown's autopsy."It would seem there were 33 bullet wounds in his body," Haggard said of Jones. "I don't know how many were entry or exit wounds."Asked which part of Jones' body was shot, Haggard said, "He was pretty much shot all over."The men were killed about 6 p.m. Thursday while still sitting in Jones' cruiser on Barnard Narrows Road in Roane County.Jones had been with the Roane County Sheriff's Office about nine months, but had served more than 25 years in law enforcement with various agencies, Haggard said. Brown and Jones were close friends and Brown was just accompanying Jones on patrol on the day of the shooting.Brown was unemployed at the time, Haggard said, but he had been an officer with the Crossville Police Department when Jones was with that agency.With the surrender Friday night of Clifford Leon Houston, 47, a manhunt that involved hundreds of officers from a score of area law enforcement agencies ended without further violence. Houston's brother, Rocky Joe Houston, 46, was arrested soon after the slayings when he sought medical treatment for his own bullet wounds at Oak Ridge Methodist Hospital."I'm more at ease now that Leon Houston is in custody," the sheriff said Saturday. "To know that no one else got hurt is a relief."Haggard said there is a chance Rocky Houston was shot by his brother during the alleged assault on the 53-year-old Jones and Brown. Rocky Houston suffer wounds to his hand and his abdomen.Haggard initially said Rocky Houston's wounds were superficial."It was more serious than I was told at first," the sheriff said Saturday. "I understand he had some reconstructive surgery on his abdomen."Rocky Houston is under armed guard at the University of Tennessee Medical Center, where he was transferred after first appearing at the Oak Ridge hospital. Haggard said the suspect is expected to be released from the hospital in 3-5 days.Until a forensics examination by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is finished, Haggard said authorities can't be sure that Rocky Houston wasn't shot by his brother.Jones was on routine patrol in the area when he drove by Leon Houston's residence on Barnard Narrows Road, the sheriff said. But Jones also knew there were outstanding felony warrants alleging aggravated assault for both brothers.When Jones passed by the house, an unidentified man and woman visiting the brothers told the Houstons of the cruiser's presence, Haggard said."There was a discussion about the deputy going by and when they came by the second time, that's when they decided to launch their attack," Haggard said.On Jones' return trip to the residence, he radioed to dispatchers that he was getting out of the cruiser on Barnard Narrows Road, but he didn't mention the Houstons, the sheriff said. The cruiser was found with two wheels still on the road and two on the pull-off area at the house."When Bill came by again, that's when Rocky came off the porch shooting," Haggard said. "Leon came off the porch and he was firing, also."The sheriff said Rocky Houston, armed with an assault weapon with double banana ammunition clips taped together, fired continuously at the cruiser as he circled around behind it and then to the passenger side. Banana clips can hold about 30 rounds each, affording more firepower to a semiautomatic weapon.If Rocky Houston was shooting from the passenger side and Leon Houston was firing at the cruiser's driver's side facing the house, Rocky Houston may have been shot by his brother, the sheriff said.Haggard said Jones was armed with a .357-caliber semiautomatic pistol, but he's unsure if it was fired.The sheriff said the two Roane County residents visiting the Houston brothers fled when the shooting began. Authorities have questioned the pair.Haggard said "there's a strong possibility they'll be indicted" in connection with the alleged ambush.Immediately after the shooting, the brothers drove to a nearby uncle's house on Dogtown Road with a four-wheeler and asked for help. The uncle, 65-year-old Ray Johnson, took several weapons from the brothers and started to drive to the hospital in Oak Ridge.Along the way, Leon Houston asked to be let out of Johnson's 2003 Buick LeSabre at Midway Cemetery, about 1 miles from the shooting scene.Leon Houston surrendered to the Tennessee Highway Patrol about 11 p.m. Friday after eluding a manhunt that involved hundreds of officers combing the heavily wooded mountainous terrain.Houston was covered with ticks from his time in the woods, the sheriff said."It seemed like he had no conscience at all about what he had done," Haggard said. "He was kind of cocky and arrogant."Haggard said Houston appeared about 8-8:30 p.m. Friday at his cousin's house in Paint Rock about five miles from the shooting scene. The cousin, Larry West, was at work at the time, Haggard said, but West's wife was home.West's wife called her husband about Houston's appearance at their home and the man came home. After giving the fugitive fresh clothing, West drove to the searchers' command center at Midway High School to find a state trooper to take custody of Leon HoustonWhen Houston showed up at West's house, he was armed with a .45-caliber semiautomatic handgun, Haggard said."We had found .45-caliber spent cartridges at the shooting site and hadn't located the gun, so we knew he was probably armed," the sheriff said.The Houston brothers for years have claimed harassment by law enforcement. The harassment, they allege, resulted from their attempts to expose local corruption. Haggard said his officers knew the brothers were volatile, but he suspected they would get worse with the death last month of their mother."I figured when their mother passes, thing will escalate and that's exactly what did happen," the sheriff said. "She was more of the authority figure in the family."For now the brothers are held on charges of aggravated assault stemming from an unspecified event prior to the shootings, Haggard said. The sheriff said the district attorney general's office recommended going to a grand jury June 19 for possible charges involving the slayings of Jones and Brown.The Houstons are slated to be arraigned June 26 in Roane County Criminal Court on the aggravated assault charges."Hopefully by that time they'll be indicted on the murder charges," Haggard said.The sheriff declined to say where Leon Houston is being held without bond pending court dates. When Rocky Houston is released from the hospital, he'll be held in a different facility, Haggard said.Haggard didn't hesitate when asked if he considered the double slayings a capital punishment case."You better believe it," he said. "If there's ever been a death penalty case, this is it."Don Jacobs may be reached at 865-342-6345