Officer Teresita Watson

Officer Jeremy Kyle

A Memphis police officer was shot to death Sunday and another officer was wounded in a domestic dispute, police said.

Off-duty police officer Jeremy Kyle, 27, kicked in the door of his ex-girlfriend's house east of Memphis near Cordova, said Steve Shular, spokesman for the Shelby County Sheriff's Department.

Teresita Watson, also 27, told detectives that Kyle walked into her bedroom and pointed a gun at her and another man that was with her.

Detectives said the other man, Justin Davis, 22, shot Kyle in the chest. He died at the scene.

Watson was also injured when one of the three shots fired by Davis grazed her stomach. She was treated and released from the hospital Sunday.

Investigators say Kyle did not fire his weapon.

Watson's three children, ages 3, 5 and 9, were upstairs at the time of the shooting and were not harmed.

Relatives say the female officer and the officer who was killed shared two children together.

Until recently the two officers lived together in the home and it wasn't the first time that police were called to the home, according to authorities.

In April, deputies responded after the couple got into an argument, Shular said.

No one was arrested or cited in that incident. In December, the male police officer requested deputies be present as he was removing personal belongings from the home, Shular said.

Watson had not filed a restraining order against Kyle, authorities said.

Both were patrol officers at the same precinct, but worked under different commands, said Sgt. Vince Higgins, spokesman for the Memphis Police Department.

Watson had been a police officer for four years and Kyle had been an officer for three years.

Neighbors say they are shocked and can't believe that this has happened in their neighborhood.

Neighbor Ken Sanders says, "well, we were just sitting out behind the house drinking coffee and heard the gunshots and thought it was fireworks."

Neighbors knew it was more than that when vehicles with flashing lights surrounded the house on Breezy Gate Drive.

"One day of the week I get to sleep in, come out and everybody was already out here," says neighbor Mike Burnwatt.

Mitchell Redick was among the onlookers. He was shocked to learn that his cousin, Officer Jeremy Kyle, had been shot to death inside the house.

"I don't know, its just shocking to me I can't believe that," says Redick.

Redick says Kyle and Teresita Watson had a rocky relationship.

Redick adds, "could have been avoided from the looks of it but I had just talked to him this morning, he was upset when I talked to him this morning."

No charges have been filed against Davis for the shooting.