The incident happened just before 8:30 p.m. Monday.

An investigation is underway after a Whitehaven man died Monday night while in Memphis Police custody.

According to MPD spokesperson Sgt. Vince Higgins, officers were called to a home in the 1200 block of Laudeen just before 8:30 p.m. Monday, where a man was being combative and had possibly overdosed on cocaine. The man, 27-year old William "Bill" Wright died a short time later while in police custody.

Tuesday afternoon, William "Bill" Wright's mother and father looked longingly at old pictures of their son, and recounted the terrible circumstances of the previous night.

"It's as if this is a dream you're going to wake out of and say, 'Hey now, that was a terrible night mare,'" said Rev. William Wright, Bill's father. "You know he was the only son I had."

Rev. Wright and his wife both got a phone call from Bill around 8:00 p.m. Monday. He had been using cocaine, and said his chest was hurting. Bill had called for an ambulance, but became disruptive as he waited for it to arrive. Police were called, and they arrived first.

"At the time, the individual was in the back of the house, yelling, being disruptive," said Memphis Police spokesperson Sgt. Vince Higgins.

Deborah Wright, Bill's mother, arrived at the family house just before police. "He was a little hyper and disruptive, and he pushed the door, and they opened it," she said.

Wright briefly resisted arrest before officers were able to convince him to calm down. Debra Wright said when officers put handcuffs on Bill, he fell to the floor. "The police didn't use any excessive force," Deborah Wright said. "They did their job correctly."

"He was handcuffed and put into the ambulance," Higgins said. "The ambulance, at that point, indicated he had gone into full arrest, and transported him immediately to Methodist South."

Wright was pronounced dead at the hospital a short time later.

Looking at pictures, the Wrights explained how Bill sang in the church choir as a young boy, and operated a car washing business. Then, nearly five years ago, he started using cocaine. His parents said they tried everything to get him off the drug.

"I know it's strange for a pastor's son to be addicted to drugs," William Wright said.

The Wright's described Bill as a wonderful person, and said they hoped his death would send a powerful message to others about the dangers of drugs.

Officers involved in taking Wright into custody were taken to the MPD's Inspectional Services, where they gave statements. They are still on the job, pending the medical examiner's report on Wright's exact cause of death.

Click here to contact Janice Broach by email.