SHARE Alexis Shrader Cantrell.

Knoxville woman killed, sons hurt in crash

COOKEVILLE - A Knoxville mother of two died Friday when her sport utility vehicle flipped, authorities said.

The SUV flipped repeatedly and came to rest facing the wrong way in the right lane, the THP said. She was wearing a seat belt.

The wreck injured Cantrell's two sons, 4-year-old Mason Cantrell, and 2-year-old Evan Cantrell.

Both boys were strapped into car seats. They were treated at Cookeville Regional Medical Center for injuries that didn't appear to be serious, according to the THP.

Woman's body pulled from lake; suicide suspected

Authorities pulled the body of a 50-year-old woman from Fort Loudoun Lake on Saturday.

Yuhjen Sheen of West Knox County appears to have committed suicide, Knox County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Martha Dooley said. Her family reported her missing early Saturday.

A fisherman spotted the body floating in the water near Admiral Farragut Park around 8 a.m., Dooley said. Officers found Sheen's car nearby.

Investigators haven't found any signs of foul play, Dooley said.

ID released on man found dead in NW Knoxville

Knoxville police have identified the man found dead from a gunshot wound on Woodland Avenue last week.

Rogelio Nunez, 21, died in the shooting reported at 9:49 a.m. Dec. 16, said Knoxville Police Department spokesman Darrell DeBusk.

Nunez was found in the street outside 933 W. Woodland Ave., just west of Interstate 275, DeBusk said. Nunez had identification on him, but DeBusk said the document was bogus.

DeBusk said no one has been arrested in connection with the slaying.

Two victims critical, one stable day after stabbing

Two people remained in critical condition Saturday, a day after being stabbed by a man who was later shot to death by Monroe County officers.

Josh Sisk and Archie Palmer, no ages given, were taken to the University of Tennessee Medical Center in Knoxville on Friday after suffering stab wounds at a home on Old Highway 68 near Madisonville.

John K. Adams, 47, of Sweetwater had broken into the home, where he stabbed Sisk, Palmer, and his ex-wife, Bonnie Adams, according to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation. Officers from the Monroe County Sheriff's Office and the Madisonville Police Department tried to subdue Adams with an electric stun gun.

It didn't work, and he charged the officers, according to the TBI. They fired, killing Adams.

Bonnie Adams remained in stable condition Saturday night at UT Medical Center.

Bedford authorities seize, pour out 70 gallons of wine

SHELBYVILLE, Tenn. - Authorities say they've seized about 70 gallons of homemade wine from a man in Bedford County.

Investigators are trying to determine if Alvin Brown sold any of the homemade wine, after Sheriff Randall Boyce received a tip that Brown allegedly sold it to minors.

Making homemade wine is allowed under state law, but it must not be sold or given away.

Sheriff's deputies poured out the seized wine.

- From staff and wire reports