SHARE

Body of Knoxville man found in Fort Loudoun Lake

A man whose body was recovered Tuesday from Fort Loudoun Lake near the Henley Bridge has been identified as Shannon Glenn, 37, who had a Knoxville address.

"There were no obvious signs of foul play," but an autopsy will be performed, Knoxville Police Department spokesman Darrell DeBusk said.

DeBusk said it is not known how long the body had been in the water.

The body was discovered shortly before noon by a boater who was in the water to clean debris from the lake.

Greene man charged with vehicular homicide

A Greene County man has been charged with vehicular homicide in a December 2007 wreck.

Todd Mathes, 36, was arrested Monday by Tennessee Highway Patrol troopers.

According to the THP, Mathes was drunk, speeding and eluding troopers in a stolen Nissan Pathfinder on Dec. 23 when he hit a vehicle driven by John Franklin Robinette, 65, of Mosheim, Tenn.

Robinette was helping his wife, Vonda Robinette, deliver News Sentinel newspapers at the time of the wreck.

Mathes' bond was set at $80,000, authorities said.

Sweetwater raid nets 10 pounds of pot, 2 arrests

MADISONVILLE - A Monday night raid on a Sweetwater residence by Monroe County sheriffs deputies and Vonore Police Department officers netted more than 10 pounds of marijuana and the arrests of the couple who lived there, according to law enforcement authorities.

Charged with possession of marijuana for the purpose of sale were Joe Timothy Whitmire, 43, and Kathy Whitmire, 53.

Several pounds of marijuana were found in an outbuilding located by a drug dog, and a separate supply of marijuana, along with scales, plastic baggies and several packs of rolling papers were found at a different location.

Lawrenceburg teenager charged in death of father

LAWRENCEBURG, Tenn. - A 17-year-old Lawrenceburg boy has been charged with first-degree murder in the death of his father.

The teenager was charged Monday after authorities say he fatally shot Thomas Schank-Weiler Jr., 37, during an argument.

Police say Schank-Weiler Jr. was physically abusive to his wife, his son and also to a younger son and daughter.

Authorities say Schank-Weiler Jr. had been drinking heavily Friday, and during an argument his teenage son shot him in the head with a .22-caliber rifle.

Officer investigated for alleged steroid use

MURFREESBORO, Tenn. - A Murfreesboro police officer is being limited to administrative duties pending the outcome of a federal investigation into his alleged steroid use.

Police officials say officer Philip Hatcher, 24, had his police powers removed late Friday pending an investigation by internal affairs.

The department has declined to release additional information surrounding the alleged steroid use.

Hatcher worked for the department as a dispatcher from May 2005 to October 2007, when he became a police officer.

The suspension comes a week after the Tennessee Highway Patrol announced it was investigating allegations of troopers using or selling steroids.

That investigation is still pending.

- From staff and wire reports