A federal court jury's exoneration of three sheriff's deputies Thursday in a civil wrongful death case highlighted the emotional aspects of using deadly force.

"There's no way to describe the feeling of having to shoot someone," said Hamilton County Sheriff's Deputy Eston Pyle. "It's always a last resort."

Deputy Pyle and deputies Nathan Sampley and Denise Short were defendants in the week-long case in federal court, sitting through hours of testimony in which they relived their actions on May 7, 2007, that led to the death of car-theft suspect Thomas Earl Jones.

Such cases rarely go to trial, their defense attorney Jerry Tidwell said. This case came in the wake of five instances of deadly force used by law enforcement agencies across the region in 2009.

The deputies in Mr. Jones' case said they had no choice except to shoot him. They simultaneously shot at Mr. Jones on a driveway in rural Hamilton County, piercing him with seven bullets as he tried to lunge at Deputy Short with a knife.

Deputy Short had testified that she was scared for her life, which authorities list as a legitimate reason to fire at a suspect.

Even though all three deputies previously were cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, Deputy Sampley said the process of the civil trial still was a "stressful one."

"We were mentally just drained," he said, adding that they all had sympathy for Mr. Jones' family and never had wanted him to die.

Attorney Robin Flores, who represented Mr. Jones' family in the lawsuit, said the family likely will not appeal.

"This wasn't a frivolous case," Mr. Flores said. "The family was just happy to have their day in court."

Tensions still simmered among the defendants after the jury read its verdict, particularly with regard to self-proclaimed eyewitness Kenneth Hafley, on whose family property Mr. Jones died.

Mr. Hafley testified that he saw the deputies shoot Mr. Jones as he was running away, an account the defense called a "total lie" and one that Mr. Hafley's own sisters discounted on the witness stand.

Mr. Hafley's sister Charlotte Slaughter testified that her brother was not even on the property at the time of the shooting. Cell phone records seemed to back the story up, showing that Mr. Hafley called Ms. Slaughter several times.

She said he was trying to find out what was going on when he saw all the "blue lights" swirling as he was arriving home from an errand.

Mr. Hafley's other sister, Judy Cobb, said after the trial that she was "disgusted" by her brother's actions.

The defense had claimed in court that Mr. Hafley fabricated his story on the promise that he would receive a financial windfall.

"He put (the officers) through unnecessary anguish," Ms. Cobb said. "They were only doing their job."