1:32pm Update:

The man killed by Sullivan County Sheriff's officers overnight was not a stranger to the law enforcement agency.

The department released documents Friday detailing an incident involving Parsons in 2004, as well as a copy of a warrant issued for him just days before the overnight deadly shooting.

To read the original affidavit from 2004 and the Capias bench warrant issued from Criminal Court February 26, 2008, click here.

(*Editors note: we have concealed identifying information about the others involved in the 2004 incident)

--

12:02pm Update:

Sullivan County Sheriff Wayne Anderson is releasing more information today about a deadly shooting involving one of his officers overnight, less than 24 hours after the deputy shot and killed a suspect the Sheriff says pulled a gun.

Sheriff Anderson identified the suspect who was killed as James Claude Parsons, Jr. A search is ongoing for a second man who was said to be with Parsons, but his name has not been confirmed at this time.

Anderson told News Channel 11 that Parsons had a long list of warrants for his arrests, including two for attempted murder, and had a history of other offenses dating back to the 1990’s.

The Sheriff says when deputies arrived on the scene of a traffic crash on Highway 93 last night, they had no indication the situation would turn violent. He says Parsons fired at the officers, who then returned fire and killed Parsons.

“I think he was going to ambush my officers, and there’s no doubt they did everything by the book. Very brave of them in what they did,” said Anderson. The Sheriff had said in the hours following the shooting that he felt the actions of his officers were justified.

--

Sullivan County Sheriff's Deputies shot and killed a man last night in the Horse Creek Community. This morning, they're searching for another person connected to the case.

Officers responded to a traffic accident call around 10:30 p.m.. Police told us a car hit a guardrail.

When they arrived on the scene, they saw two men in a creek by the road.

A spokesperson for the Sullivan County Sheriff's Department told us officers shined a light on the men and when officers asked them to show their hands, one man shot at officers.

Deputies returned fire, hitting one of the men. He is dead.

The other man is on the run at this hour.

The TBI and THP are investigating.

Stay with News Channel 11 for more on this developing story throughout the day.

Read Saturday's Bristol Herald Courier for more on the ongoing search for a second man that left the scene.