SHARE

Wal-Mart in Lenoir City evacuated; 12 hospitalized

LENOIR CITY - A dozen people were hospitalized Monday after developing shortness of breath and runny eyes at a Wal-Mart store in Lenoir City, authorities said.

Wal-Mart spokesman Dennis Alpert says that Wal-Mart Store 741 on U.S. Highway 321 was evacuated at 3:50 p.m. after several people reported irritated eyes and throats.

Officials said nine customers and three employees were sent to the hospital.

Authorities believe a routine changing of chemicals by employees in the store's photo lab was the cause of the irritations.

The store was closed for about two hours and reopened shortly before 6 p.m.

Taxi driver reported missing turns up safe

A taxi driver who disappeared Saturday has been found safe.

Kyle Romine, 32, a driver for Paradise Taxi was reported missing after he was last seen at the Pilot gas station on Cumberland Avenue.

He spoke with co-workers Sunday night, according to Knoxville Police Department Lt. Sammy Rivera. No foul play was suspected in his disappearance, Rivera said.

On Monday he told WBIR-TV $200 was missing and he had a bump on his head, but he doesn't know what happened.

Police are not actively searching for a robbery suspect.

Kingston police probing fatal crash during chase

KINGSTON - The circumstances leading to a Saturday night police chase that ended in the death of a suspect and injury to another driver remained under investigation Monday, according to the Kingston Police Department.

Johnnie B. Ambrose, 37, was fatally injured when a 1995 Cadillac he was driving hit a guard rail, skidded into the oncoming lane and collided with a 2007 Saturn van, according to a Tennessee Highway Patrol report.

The driver of the van, Patricia Terry, 40, of Harriman, remains in the University of Tennessee Medical Center, where she was listed in good condition Monday.

Kingston Police officers had been attempting to stop Ambrose on U.S. Highway 70 when the wreck occurred at about 6:30 p.m. The THP accident report indicates that Ambrose had been drinking but contains no reference to the fact that police were attempting to stop Ambrose.

Tunnel work to tie up Spur traffic beginning Monday

SEVIERVILLE - A highway construction project set to begin Jan. 7 will affect U.S. 441 traffic headed from Gatlinburg to Pigeon Forge in the Smoky Mountains.

National Park Service spokesman Bob Miller says one lane will be closed in the tunnel on the northbound side of the Spur - a 4 1/2-mile section that runs between the two mountain gateway cities.

Work to be done includes drainage improvements, installation of energy-efficient lighting, and stabilizing an area where rock slides have been common since the road was built in the 1950s.

2 accused of taking money from Cheatham mailboxes

ASHLAND CITY, Tenn. - Cheatham County authorities are holding two men after a series of Christmas Day thefts from rural mailboxes.

Deputies arrested 19-year-old Brian Hunter of Ashland City and 23-year-old Robert Sutton of Chapmansboro.

The suspects are charged with 50 counts each of theft and mail tampering. Authorities say the men filched $240 from mailboxes in the Chapmansboro and Pleasant View areas of the county.

- From staff and wire reports