Lenoir City Police Chief Don White said today that a Lenoir City Police officer responded to a residence on Gayle Avenue in Lenoir City around 1:15 p.m. today to question a man regarding an incident that occurred Saturday.

SHARE Lenoir City Police Chief Don White said today that a Lenoir City Police officer responded to a residence on Gayle Avenue in Lenoir City around 1:15 p.m. today to question a man regarding an incident that occurred Saturday. An unidentified Blount County Sheriff's SWAT team member was injured while throwing a percussion-grenade into a residence Monday afternoon in Lenoir City.

Authorities investigating death by shotgun blast

By Robert L. Wilson

LENOIR CITY - Authorities are investigating circumstances surrounding a man who apparently took his own life during a siege that began when an officer came to talk to him at his home about a previous incident.

Lenoir City Mayor Matt Brookshire, who was at the scene on Gayle Avenue on Monday afternoon, said the man had apparently shot himself in the chest as officers from several law enforcement agencies surrounded his house.

Police Chief Don White said that one of his officers, Jamie Whitt, was dispatched to the unidentified man's house shortly after 1 p.m. to ask the man some questions, and when she confronted him in the front yard he ran into the house.

Whitt then reported hearing a gunshot.

White said other officers converging on the scene attempted without success to make contact with the man via landline and cell phone and a public address system.

He said they made an attempt every five minutes for two hours, at which point they initiated a mutual aid agreement that brought the Blount County Sheriff's Office SWAT team and mobile command center, as well as officers from the Loudon County Sheriff's Department and the Tennessee Highway Patrol.

The brick house is at the dead end of Gayle Street in a modest neighborhood.

SWAT officers set up a perimeter around the house, and police radios crackled with reports of movement at the home's windows.

White said Blount County's hostage phone was tossed through a window to try to make contact with the man, and a SWAT officer was cut on the arm by broken glass. The officer was taken to Blount Memorial Hospital for treatment. His injury was not believed serious.

At about 4:20 p.m., officers tossed a concussion grenade into the house and entered shortly after.

White said the hostage phone was equipped with a camera that allowed officers to determine that the man was on the couch and had shot himself.

Whitt had gone to the house to talk with the man about an incident that had happened during the weekend. White said it is unclear exactly when it was during the four-hour siege that the man took his own life but that he was already dead when the concussion grenade was tossed into the house.