(COLUMBUS, Ohio, August 11th, 2003, 10 a.m.) -- An 18-year-old woman police said was fatally shot by her fugitive father during a police chase in West Virginia was tormented by the man, whom a friend says tried to control her life.

Chris Young said Christina McKibben also feared for the safety of family members, but never thought John Richard Mayhew Jr. would harm her.

"She never was afraid for herself," Young said.

Mayhew was captured by West Virginia State Police on Saturday night following a chase that started when he shot a Greenbrier County deputy during a routine traffic stop, state police Sgt. Jay Powers said.

Mayhew, 35, of Columbus, had been on the run since late Thursday, when police in his hometown said he shot and killed a former wife and her fiance, then took his daughter hostage.

Deputy Nathan Hershman, shot in the left arm with a .25 caliber handgun, managed to return fire as Mayhew sped away and chased the gunman while relaying information to police.

Mayhew unsuccessfully tried to carjack another vehicle, hit a state police cruiser and sped past a barricade before police disabled his vehicle in Lewisburg, W.Va.

Police said they believe Mayhew shot his daughter and himself as officers, with guns drawn, yelled for him to exit the car.

"We couldn't hear the gunshots because a lot of stuff was going on," Powers said. "We believe the time he shot his daughter was the time we had him stopped."

McKibben died about 11:30 p.m. Saturday at a West Virginia hospital. Powers said Mayhew was in serious condition at a hospital in Roanoke, Va., and expected to survive his self-inflicted chest wound.

Hershman had pulled Mayhew over about 8 p.m. Saturday for not displaying a motor vehicle inspection sticker, police said. He was hospitalized in fair condition, suffering from a collapsed lung after a bullet lodged in his chest.

On Thursday, Tammy McKibben Aspell, 34, and Frank Rigsby, 39, were shot to death in the home they shared with the woman's four children. The other children are with their biological father, police said.

Mayhew was charged in Ohio with two counts of aggravated murder and kidnapping, police said.

"As long as he comes through, he'll come back to Columbus and face these charges," homicide detective Kathie Justice said.

Charges in West Virginia were pending.

Mayhew served an eight-year prison term for kidnapping and aggravated burglary in a 1992 incident involving another former wife, court records show. Prosecutors said he broke into the woman's home and forced her into a car at gunpoint, freeing her four hours later when she promised to rekindle the romance.

Young, 20, said he regrets he did not marry McKibben to save her from her father.

Her grandmother, Barbara Hanson, 54, said McKibben, who wanted to be a pediatrician, was excited about earning an A in a summer school course, completing her requirements at Westland High School.

"She was dancing around. ... That's all she had to do to get her diploma," Hanson said. "I want it to be buried with her."