BOONE FIREFIGHTER DIES AFTER BEEN RUN OVER - A Boone County firefighter is dead and another injured after a Racine VFD fire truck accidentally backed over them yesterday. 45-year-old Barry D. Lutsy of Ashford died at Charleston Area Medical Center today following the accident. The firefighters were just returning from a call about 2 p.m. and were cleaning up the truck when it backed into the station, running over Lutsy and 17-year-old Nicholas D. Cornell of Seth. Cornell's leg injuries are not believed to be life-threatening. The sheriff's department examined the truck and found no malfunctions in the vehicle's system for backing up. Officials said a fellow firefighter was driving the truck. An investigation is under way. STATE POLICE TROOPERS INVESTIGATED OVER HIGHWAY DEATHS - State Police have initiated an internal investigation regarding a second fatality related to chases by troopers in the past several weeks. Both victims were innocent parties traveling in the opposite lanes. Two troopers were following a Lewisburg police car which was responding to a reported fight, when one trooper's cruiser slammed head-on into a car driven by Neil Parker, 34, of White Sulphur Springs, Parker died after the crash. State Police policy is not to release troopers' names while they are under investigation. An accident reconstruction team is analyzing what occurred, said Trooper Jay Powers. Information collected from the investigation will be forwarded to the Greenbrier County prosecutor, who will decide if charges against the trooper are merited. Powers said the State Policemen were unaware of the nature of the call and followed "out of courtesy." A Canadian girl was killed during a chase on the West Virginia turnpike. STUDENT TRIES TO POISON TEACHER - A seventeen-year-old Boone County girl has admitted to trying to poison her teacher. The Scott High School student pleaded guilty Friday in Boone County Circuit Court, to attempt to injure by poisoning. Police said the student put Windex, hand sanitizer and orange cleaner in the teacher's drinks five times from February through June following a student-teacher dispute. Science teacher Kathy Adkins, who has been diagnosed with Chron's disease, was treated at a Charleston hospital in June for a kidney infection and internal bleeding. WVU REPORTING RECORD ENROLLMENT - West Virginia University is reporting record enrollment. About 24,500 students are registered for the fall semester, which starts next week. That beats last year's fall enrollment. President David Hardesty says WVU has its largest freshman class ever this fall, with more than 4,300 first-time students. JACKSON RUNNING FOR GOVERNOR - Former Lincoln County Senator Lloyd Jackson says he is about ready to hit the campaign trail. He already has his platform prepared. Jackson says he plans to focus on education, the economy and medical care for the elderly. Jackson, a favorite of the senate and house leadership, plans to resign his seat on the State Board of Education after today's meeting.