UPDATE 7/8/16 @ 7:45

SUMMERSVILLE, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- West Virginia State Police say a 25-year-old man has died after running over a deputy sheriff, attempting to break into a home and then suffering a medical emergency in the back of a police cruiser.

State Police spokesman Lt. Michael Baylous tells The Charleston Gazette-Mail that Kniles Akers of Summersville died Sunday of unknown causes.

Police said the situation unfolded June 30 in Nicholas County with a report of a stolen car.

Police say a deputy made a traffic stop after a vehicle was reported stolen and that Akers, who was driving, became combative, took the deputy's cruiser and ran over the officer. Less than an hour later, state troopers say they were called to a reported home invasion and took Akers into custody.

UPDATE 7/1/16 @ 11:51 a.m.

SUMMERSVILLE, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- The name of the suspect who hit a Nicholas County Deputy has been released.

West Virginia State Police say Kniles Akers, 25, Summersville, stole a Deputy's cruiser and used it as a weapon to run over a Nicholas County Deputy Thursday.

Troopers say Nicholas County 911 received a complaint at 5:30 p.m. about a stolen vehicle from a convenience store near Calvin. Nicholas County Deputies responded.

Deputies caught Akers with the stolen vehicle in a traffic stop. Troopers say Akers became combative with the Deputy, stole his cruiser and then ran over the Deputy. Akers took off.

It is believed Akers was under the influence of drugs according to WVSP.

Around 6:40 p.m., dispatchers learned about a home invasion near Persinger. Troopers found Akers fighting with the homeowner. He was taken into custody.

While Akers was in the back of the cruiser, he experienced a medical emergency and was taken to the hospital. He is in critical condition.

The Deputy is in stable condition. He suffered internal injuries and several broken bones. His name has not been released.

More charges are pending for Akers.

Keep clicking on WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for updates.

UPDATE 6/30/16 @ 9:26 p.m.

SUMMERSVILLE, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- A Nicholas County Sheriff's Deputy is in the hospital in stable condition after he was hit by a car.

Sheriff David Hopkins tells WSAZ he suffered a broken shoulder blade. His name has not been released.

According to a news release, the Deputy was responding to a call of a vehicle that was stolen from the Little General Sunoco on West Virginia Rt. 55 in Calvin.

The deputy made contact with the vehicle and a short pursuit began. When the deputy tried to use a taser to apprehend the suspect, on Nile Road near Persinger, he was able to get behind the wheel of his cruiser. The deputy tried to stop him and he was dragged into a ditch.

The suspect took off to a home on Armstrong Road.

Sheriff Hopkins says the suspect parked in the back of the home and went inside.

That's where the homeowner held him until police arrived.

The suspect was taken into custody and put in a cruiser but the Sheriff says he then became unresponsive.

The suspect was also taken to Summersville Regional Medical Center.

His name and condition have not been released at this time.

The incident is now being investigated by the West Virginia State Police.

Keep clicking on the WSAZ App and WSAZ Mobile for updates.

ORIGINAL STORY 6/30/16 @ 7:34 p.m.

SUMMERSVILLE, W.Va. (WSAZ) -- A Nicholas County Sheriff's Deputy is in the hospital after he was hit by a car.

Sheriff David Hopkins has not released the deputy's name yet and tells WSAZ that he is unaware of his condition at this

time. He talked to WSAZ as he was heading into Summersville Regional Medical Center to check on the officer.

Sheriff Hopkins says that the deputy was responding to a domestic dispute Thursday evening. The deputy and the male subject at the home got into an argument.

The suspect, whose name has not been released, got into the deputy's cruiser as as he tried to leave he hit the deputy with the vehicle.

The suspect then took off to a home on Armstrong Road.

Sheriff Hopkins says the suspect parked in the back of the home and went inside.

That's where the homeowner held him until police arrived.

The suspect was taken into custody and put in a cruiser but the sheriff says he then became unresponsive.

The suspect was also taken to Summersville Regional Medical Center.

His name and condition have not been released at this time.

Keep clicking on the WSAZ App and WSAZ Mobile for updates.