The suspect in an armed Elmira home invasion early Thursday was shot and killed by officers after opening fire himself at law enforcement during a low-speed pursuit that ended on a Horseheads road.

James M. Davis, 34, an Elmira parolee, became the suspect in a robbery that happened around 5:19 a.m. at a Johnson Street residence, Elmira Police Chief Joseph Kane said in a late Thursday news conference streamed by Star-Gazette media partner WENY-TV. During that robbery, Kane said, three gunshots were fired and money was stolen from the residence — the victim and Davis were known to each other.

After preliminary efforts to locate Davis proved unsuccessful, and believing him to still be armed and dangerous, Elmira police put out an alert to other law enforcement agencies to be on the lookout.

Kane said police obtained a lead to Davis’ whereabouts around 9:18 a.m., that he was operating an SUV in Elmira, and officers caught up with him.

“Our officers engaged that vehicle and attempted to pull that person over, however he refused, and continued to evade police,” Kane said. “As a result, the pursuit ended up going outside the City of Elmira.”

Other local police agencies, including Chemung County Sheriff's deputies and state troopers, were called to help. The pursuit continued onto Lattabrook Road in Horseheads.

According to Southern Tier-area law enforcement officials, police officers are permitted to pursue a vehicle when they attempt a lawful stop and the vehicle refuses to comply.

Police say factors are taken under consideration, such as speed, weather conditions and traffic patterns in these incidents.

Police did not say Thursday what speeds the pursuit reached, but Kane described it as a “low speed pursuit” when two tires on the suspect's SUV went flat during the chase. Davis was the only occupant of the SUV.

Near the end of the chase, Kane said, an officer managed to pull a patrol vehicle near the side of the SUV and that is when Davis opened fire.

No police officers were wounded, nor was there any reported damage to uninvolved vehicles, and the SUV came to a stop.

“The suspect exited his vehicle armed with a handgun and at that time, police discharged their firearms at the suspect, wounding him at the scene,” Kane said at Thursday’s news conference.

Police did not say where Davis was shot or how many shots were fired during the incident.

At first, Davis was critically injured. After being hospitalized, he was declared dead.

WATCHDOG REPORT: Across NYS, police chases kill every year

The police officers involved in the pursuit and shooting were not identified. Kane said “they’re fine.”

Davis had been wanted by state parole officials at the time of Thursday’s robbery and pursuit, according to Kane, and he had an extensive criminal history.

Davis also did not hold a pistol permit. As a convicted felon, Davis would have been prohibited by law to possess a firearm, according to Chemung County District Attorney Weeden Wetmore.

The motive in Thursday’s early morning robbery was not disclosed by police. As to whether Davis bore any thoughts of committing “suicide by cop,” Kane said, authorities have no firm answer as to his mindset.

Kane told reporters, “We’re still conducting the investigation.”

On Twitter: @PSBABorrelli