CLEVELAND, Ohio -- A man has died after being shot by a Cleveland police officer Wednesday afternoon in the city's East Side, authorities said.

The man was shot on East 93rd Street and St. Clair Avenue in the city's Glenville neighborhood at 4:50 p.m., Cleveland police chief Calvin Williams said during a brief press conference.

The man, who was identified early Thursday morning by the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner's Office as Antonio Levison, 33, of Cleveland, was armed, Williams said.

Details about the incident were vague. Williams declined to answer questions from reporters.

Williams said officers were called to the area of East 90th Street and St. Clair Avenue for a report of shots fired. A short investigation did not reveal anything. Officers later encountered two "suspicious men" who they tried to stop, Williams said.

One of the men showed a handgun, Williams said. Both of the men ran away, and a gun fell from one of the men who fell down as police gave chase, Williams said.

Officers continued to chase the second man and gave commands for him to stop and put his hands up before they ran in the backyard of a home, Williams said.

The man showed his gun and the officer opened fire, Williams said. He later died at a local hospital.

Wednesday's

shooting is the second deadly police-involved killing since the city entered into a May 2015 agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice to enact sweeping reforms in the way police officers are trained to use deadly force and deadly shootings are investigated.

The agreement, known as a consent decree, was reached after the Justice Department conducted a 20-month investigation that found officers too often used excessive force on suspects.

Though federal officials maintained that no single incident sparked the probe, the findings came on the heels of the 2014 killing of 12-year-old Tamir Rice , who was shot and killed by rookie officer Timothy Loehmann outside of a city recreation center in the Cudell neighborhood. The boy was armed with a replica airsoft pistol and was shot within seconds of Loehmann and his partner, Frank Garmback, arriving at the park in response to a call for a male, possibly a juvenile, threatening people with a gun.

Tamir's death sparked a national outcry, as did the 2012 shooting of Timothy Russell and Malissa Williams. The couple, who were unarmed, were shot dead when 13 Cleveland police officers surrounded their car and unloaded 137 bullets into their car after a 20-plus minute, high-speed chase into East Cleveland.

One of the officers, Michael Brelo, was charged with involuntary manslaughter. Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court Judge John P. O'Donnell found Brelo not guilty.

The city fired six of the 13 officers, including Brelo, but an arbitrator ordered five of them to be reinstated. The five were back on the city's payroll last week.

Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Michael O'Malley has asked Ohio Attorney General

Mike DeWine's office to handle the prosecution of every officer-involved death in the county since O'Malley took office in January.

cleveland.com reporter Cory Shaffer contributed to this report.

If you'd like to comment on this story, visit Wednesday's crime and courts comments section.