Memphis police held a press conference Wednesday morning to update the media on a number of homicide investigations the department is currently conducting.

After the press conference, spokesperson Karen Rudolf issued the following press release about the following investigations:

There have been 6 Homicides since Saturday, 6-20-09.

We have had 62 criminal homicides this year. At this time last year we were at 68.

1. At approximately 0107 on Saturday, June 20th, officers responded to 3596 Commerce. Victim: Terry Wilkins, M/B, 18yoa was shot by an unknown suspect. We still do not have any suspect information regarding the shooter, but through this investigation, we have developed 2 suspects that have been arrested for Aggravated Robbery.

2. At approximately 0245 Saturday, June 20th, officers responded to Life west of Thomas. Victim: James G. Wilson, M/B, 39yoa was shot by an unknown suspect. The victim was able to tell witnesses on the scene, that he had been robbed. We are looking for possibly 2 M/B suspects, but do not have any names at this time.

3. At approximately 0033, June 21st, officers responded to 546 Brockwood. Suspect: Thomas Burton, M/B, 38yoa was shot by police officers. The officers were immediately faced with deadly force, at which time three officers opened fired. The suspect was transported to the MED in critical condition and later expired. Officers were routinely relieved of duty pending investigation. Preliminary findings are that the officers performed their duties within the policies of the Memphis Police Department and the laws of the state of Tennessee. However the investigation is ongoing and no finale determination has been made. Photos of all officers will be forwarded today.

4. At approximately 0138, June 21st, officers responded to a DOA unknown at 496 Western Park. Officer located a female victim that had been beaten to death. Homicide Investigators later identified the victim as Laverne Humphries, 48yoa. Investigators believe that Thomas Burton is responsible for the murder of the victim. We do not have an exact time of death. The victim was last seen on Friday.



5. At approximately 0148, June 21st, officers responded to 4890 Brentdale. Victim: Stephen Faulkner, M/B 29yoa was shot while attempting to deliver a pizza for Pizza Hut. The victim was called to a vacant house for a delivery in the amount of approximately 90.00. When he arrived at this location, he was robbed and shot. The victim was found deceased shortly after. Memphis Police homicide investigators have officially charged 23-year old JEREMY WILLIAMS, 18-year old LAVETTE COLEMAN, and 17-year old DEAN HEATH III of Memphis. Information gathered as part of the investigation indicates that Heath fired the fatal shots and the others were part of the planning and execution of the robbery plan. It is reported that Heath is a member of the Vice Lords. Investigators continue to investigate the possibility that these individuals may have committed other robberies of pizza delivery personnel.

6. At approximately 2012 officers responded to 3282 Millington. Victim: Brandon Harris, M/B, 16yoa was found to be stabbed multiple times and later died at the hospital. Investigators found that the victim was involved in an argument within a large group when the stabbed took place. Investigators have determined that Markeith Miller, 16yoa is responsible for this murder and he has been charged with voluntary manslaughter.

HOMICIDE STATS YEAR TO DATE:

62 CRIMINAL HOMICIDES THIS YEAR

68 CRIMINAL HOMICIDES LAST YEAR

9% REDUCTION

ALL HOMICIDE INCLUDING JUSTIFIED:

65 THIS YEAR

80 LAST YEAR

47% REDUCTION

Source: Memphis Police Department