April Keck (22) died when she was ejected from her vehicle following a police pursuit



April Keck (22) Date: Mar 13, 2010

Cause of Death: Alcohol Related Auto Accident

Location: Knoxville, TN

URL: view their profile Mar 13, 2010Alcohol Related Auto AccidentKnoxville, TN

The Knoxville Police Department is expecting today to get a video from the Tennessee Highway Patrol of its pursuit of a 2003 black Mitsubishi Eclipse that was found wrecked with its driver dead down an embankment in South Knoxville.



The Mitsubishi was traveling southbound in a northbound lane of Chapman Highway around 1:30 Saturday morning when it was stopped by a THP trooper before speeding away.



The driver of the Mitsubishi, April Lawanna Keck, 1737 Cape Brittany Way, was later found dead Sunday in the 6000 block of Chapman Highway where it crashed.



KPD spokesman Darrell DeBusk said police hope the video will provide a history of what happened between the time when the 22-year-old woman was last seen leaving Barley's Taproom & Pizzeria in the Old City, and when she was later found dead.



"We know they (THP) had contact with her already that night and we want to see how she was reacting," said DeBusk.



He said the request for the video is not implying that THP played any role in the crash.



According to THP spokesman Mike Browning, Trooper Charles Van Morgan observed the Mitsubishi traveling in the wrong lane.



Browning said the Mitsubishi then stopped at a Family Dollar store before speeding off at more than 100 mph. Because of the speed, Van Morgan decided to stop pursuing Keck's car, he said.



Her Mitsubishi was reported at 9:43 a.m. Sunday by a passing motorist, who noticed the badly mangled wreck overturned at the foot of a steep, overgrown embankment off the northbound lanes of the highway, said KPD Sgt. Tom Fox, who identified Keck as the driver.



According to Fox, the car had been traveling southbound when Keck lost control, crossing both northbound lanes and striking the support beams of a billboard along a sharp curve between Deva and Longvale drives. Keck had been ejected from the vehicle, he said.



"It's very hard to see the car from the road," Fox said.

Related Article(s): http://www.knoxnews.com/news/2010/mar/15/thp-missing-woman-found-dead-eluded-trooper-100-mp/

« go back to article archive list