Mike DeDoncker

Sara Haag said she used to think the idea of a lifestyle change was corny.

Then, with more than 300 pounds on her 5-foot-5 frame and facing medical test results that scared her into thinking she might not see her two daughters grow up, she decided that a lifestyle change was exactly what she needed.

She opted in August 2008 for laparoscopic gastric band (Lap-Band) surgery, in which a silicone ring placed around the stomach helps restrict food intake, but she didn’t stop there. Chips and fast-food dietary habits went by the boards, and two to four hours of almost daily exercise became part of her makeover.

Ten months later, Haag is 137 pounds lighter and still losing weight.

“It was the best thing I ever did for myself and for my family,” Haag said. “I saw the steady weight loss with the Lap-Band as anticipated, but I lost weight a lot faster than they say you will and I attribute a lot of that to being at the YMCA four or five days a week.”

Haag said she and her family, husband James and daughters Alexis and Taylor, joined the YMCA of Rock River Valley a month before the surgery because “I needed to change a lot of things and relying on the band is not what they want you to do. They want you to start a healthy life.”

Haag had to start small.

“Obviously, I couldn’t do nearly as much as I can do now,” she said. “I wasn’t even comfortable on a treadmill when I started, so I started with a little bit on the recumbent bike. As things got going, I moved to the treadmill and did some walking on the track.”

When her doctor cleared her for exercise after the surgery, she began adding land and water-based cardiovascular exercise classes.

“I’ve gotten myself into a routine now,” Haag said. “I have my days set. I know where I’m going and I know what I’m doing.

“I hit a plateau in February, so I started to change some things and add some different classes, and that has been working well for me. When your body gets used to doing certain things, you have to throw something new at it.”

Her routine includes low-impact aerobics classes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.

“Those include a lot of dancing, which is fun for me because I like to dance,” she said. “Then I go upstairs on those same days and do my weight circuit on the Nautilus machines and then back downstairs for more weights. And there, I like to use a bar and do twisting for my obliques.

“Wednesday turns out to be my big day, because I also come in and do a Pilates class and an EZ Swimmer class. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, I do two different water-exercise classes. Being able to finish those aerobics classes was a big thing for me because, for a while, I would have to stop. And now I add weights with the exercises to help keep up the intensity and raise my heart rate.”

Haag said her big dietary downfall used to be chips because “I liked the sound of the crunch.”

She said she has changed to a lower-fat version when she eats chips and made other dietary changes for her family.

“We used to be a family that would go and get fast food two or three times a week. Not anymore,” Haag said. “Everything has been changed to whole grains and a lot more protein, which is a big part of my dietary need with the Lap-Band surgery. That means a lot less carbs, which is hard because I’m Italian, but we also eat a lot of vegetables. I’m blessed with two girls who love vegetables, so that helps out a lot.”

The key, she said, was paying attention to portion control. “I think that’s where a lot of people, myself included, get tricked,” Haag said. “People need to get to know and learn how to read those labels and learn what a portion is. That way, you put those 15 chips that are a portion on your plate and you put the rest away.”

Haag said she also cut out fried foods and set out to be extremely strict on the new diet. “Then I learned that you need to have an indulgence every once in awhile. Otherwise, you might have one of those days when you just go crazy,” she said. “Every once in awhile I will get a sweet tooth, although I’m not a big sweets person. And when I do, I go for a no-sugar-added Italian ice cup.”

She said deciding to do the Lap-Band surgery “was a very personal choice. And sometimes, you hear some negative things like, ‘Oh, you’re cheating because you’re not doing it the real way.’ ”

“I think that is just so wrong to promote. Obviously, you have to change your eating habits and you have to exercise. But for those who are, and I was considered morbidly obese, you may need an extra push in the right direction. That’s what it gave me.”

Although she is still working toward her ideal weight, Haag said she already is seeing social benefits from her weight loss.

“I’m back to doing things that I’m passionate about,” Haag said. “My youngest daughter and I are in the ‘King and I’ production with Rock Valley College this summer.

“I was a vocal music major and theater minor in college, and you know, when I got so heavy I didn’t want to be up on stage in front of people. Now, it feels good to be back to doing something that I really love.”

Mike DeDoncker can be reached at (815) 987-1382 ormdedoncker@rrstar.com.