DeAngelo Jelks was driving on Ringgold Road, returning from a trip to pick up books for a school paper, when he heard a familiar sound.

"I heard gunshots - pop, pop, pop, pop, pop," said the 29-year-old, who recently returned from a tour of duty in Iraq with the Army's 278th Armored Cavalry Regiment.

There was no doubt in his mind what he'd heard.

"I know gunfire," the East Ridge resident said Monday evening.

The shots came as he was passing the East Ridge Fire and Police Services Center. He turned his head instantly, he said, and saw an East Ridge police officer with his gun pointed a man lying on the ground.

Police in East Ridge say a man was shot by city officers outside the center shortly after 6 p.m. The man's name "will be released at a later time," Erik Hopkins, an East Ridge police spokesman, said late Monday.

Jelks said it was about 6:20 p.m. when he was passing the center and heard the shots. He immediately turned into a nearby parking lot, he said, and started taking photos with the camera that was still in his car after a child's birthday party the day before.

He saw paramedics giving CPR to the wounded man, he said, then saw him loaded up in an ambulance and driven away.

Hopkins said the wounded man was transported to Erlanger hospital in critical condition.

Two officers were involved in the shooting and their names were not available for release, he said. Any officer involved in a shooting is placed on administrative leave for "at least five days," he said.

According to Hopkins, the incident started when the man called police and told them he was in the center's parking lot with a "serious problem."

"A uniformed officer who was already here inside doing paperwork stepped out to speak to the individual," Hopkins said. "The man got out of his car, was acting strangely ... and had a weapon in his waistband.

"(The) officers challenged him verbally (and) said, 'Don't go for the weapon, don't go for the weapon.' Ultimately, the individual did go for the weapon, at which point he was shot."

Hopkins said he didn't have an exact identification on the victim's weapon.

"He had some sort of handgun in his waistband. What it ultimately ended up being I don't know, if it ended up being a pellet gun or what," he said.

Witnesses reported hearing between four and eight shots.

Cheryl Hooks, of Rossville, was indoors at a nearby auction when she and others heard "about four or five gunshots."

"The guy across the street heard about eight," she said. "A few of (the people at the auction) came out to see because they thought it was firecrackers."

Hopkins acknowledged that it was "unusual" for a shooting to happen outside a police station.

"I guess it is unusual for it to occur here on the police property, at the police department," he said.

Hopkins said he didn't know how many bullets were fired or how many hit the man.

The incident is being investigated by East Ridge police and the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, Hopkins said. He added that the "preliminary investigation" showed the officers "acted within East Ridge police policy and Tennessee state law."