(WMC-TV) - What started as a domestic violence called then turned into a shootout and standoff between a man and police Sunday.



Action News 5 crews arrived at the scene moments after police shot a man during a standoff. Family members identified him as 36-year-old Larry Redick. He later died at the MED.



When police went inside the house in the 3600 block of Rhea Avenue, they found a woman dead inside. Family members said she was Redick's wife, LaTarsha Moore Redick.



Her mother, Cathy Moore, said LaTarsha Redick just turned 32 Saturday.



"She was a loving and caring person," said Moore. "She would do anything for you."



Memphis Police said the ordeal unfolded when officers responded to a domestic violence call just before 10:00 a.m. Sunday. When they arrived, the man fired shots at the officers. Officers fired back and the man went back inside the home.



Police established a perimeter and called for backup. Forty minutes later, officers heard shots from inside the home.



The man then came back out and pointed his gun at an officer. Officers fired and hit him.



Moore said Larry Redick used to serve in the military. She said she thinks he may have just snapped.



"That's the only thing I can see, because he was a good guy," said Moore.



The Redicks four-year-old son is now without both of his parents. Moore said she is now caring for her grandson.



LaTarsha Redick's family said her son was her life.



"She was crazy about him," said her cousin, Jennifer Powell. "Wherever she was at, he was at."



LaTarsha Redick was a security guard for St. Jude. Eric Coleman worked with her for 10 years.



"I talked to her Friday. Laughing, joking like we always do. And then this," said Coleman. I really hate this. LaTarsha was a very, very sweet person, and she will be missed."



LaTarsha Redick's family and co-workers said they never saw any signs of domestic violence and did not know of any problems in their marriage.



Police said it is too early in the investigation to determine if the man shot his wife or if she was accidentally hit by police fire.

Copyright 2011 WMC-TV. All rights reserved.