SHARE

By News Sentinel Staff

THORN HILL, Tenn. — Authorities this morning identified a Maryville man who recently got out of prison as the man who died in a crash while fleeing from deputies in Grainger County.

Kyle E. Brooks, 51, of Old Laws Chapel Road died in the 9:55 a.m. Thursday crash, according to the Tennessee Highway Patrol.

"He has a very lengthy criminal history with us and other counties," Claiborne County Sheriff David Ray said this morning. Ray said Brooks, who has a history of thievery charges, was released from prison in April.

"The guy with him just got out of the penitentiary 30 days ago," Ray said.

Authorities have not officially released the identity of the man riding in the truck Brooks was driving during the chase.

Brooks was driving a 1999 Chevrolet S-10 pickup truck and pulling a trailer containing an allegedly stolen ATV, authorities said. The alleged theft occurred in Claiborne County at a residence in the Lower Caney Valley Community, Ray said.

The residence targeted in Thursday's theft had been robbed Monday, Ray said.

"They got guns and stuff out of there; just cleaned them out," the sheriff said.

Because of that theft, Claiborne County deputies had increased patrols in the area, Ray said. One of those patrolling deputies encountered the white pickup truck where the ATV had been loaded onto a trailer.

Ray said the pickup truck also had been reported stolen, but he was unsure this morning of where that theft occurred.

The sheriff said Brooks aimed the truck right at the approaching deputy's cruiser as the truck left the driveway of the robbed home. The deputy drove into a ditch to avoid a collision, Ray said.

After getting out of the ditch, the deputy pursued the truck, with speeds reaching up to 80 mph, Ray said. The chase covered about 10 to 12 miles, he said.

During the chase, Ray said his "officer said he thought the guy had a gun in his hand." While no shots were fired, authorities discovered a loaded .32-caliber semi-automatic pistol on Brooks after the crash, the sheriff said.

That gun, Ray said, had been reported stolen from a Grainger County home.

Officers from Grainger County and the Tennessee Highway Patrol joined the chase. Ray said officers involved in the pursuit were concerned about the winding nature of the two-lane State Route 131, so they backed off a little.

"I monitored everything on the radio," Ray said. "We had backed away."

As the fleeing truck came to the intersection with Delmar Welch Road, Brooks lost control. Ray said the weight of the ATV on the trailer caused problems for the truck driver.

The truck left the right side of the road and Brooks over-corrected, sending the vehicle off the left side of the pavement and into a tree, according to a report filed by THP Trooper James Knipper.

Brooks was dead at the scene and his passenger was flown to the University of Tennessee Medical Center. The passenger's condition was not available this morning.

No officers were injured during the episode.

"The officers did great," Ray said. "They did exactly what they're trained to do. They did it by the book."

Ray said the incident has launched a multi-county theft investigation that is ongoing. The probe includes Claiborne, Grainger and Blount counties.

"We've already recovered some stolen items in Blount County," Ray said. "They've loaded up one truck and are going back for another trip."

Ray said Brooks' girlfriend resides in Blount County.

More details as they develop online and in Friday's News Sentinel.