UPDATE, Monday, May 14, 5:35 pm

Before Ernest France threatened Kingsport officers and later died at their hands, Mt. Carmel police say he threatened to kill his wife and son too.

"The threats that he made to his wife, he had pointed the shotgun at her and told her that he would kill her and he had made mention to his son that he would be next," Mt. Carmel Police Chief Jeff Jackson said.

According to Chief Jackson, France later fired four shots at a car parked at neighbor Herman Blevins' house before heading to Kingsport where police there later pulled him over. Blevins, a friend of France, says the man was misunderstood and had been dealing with depression and the deaths of people close to him.

"Sometimes when he wasn't on his medication he thinks everybody's out to get him," Blevins said. "He's bipolar, but other than that he's just a real good kind person. Ernest France, he was a good guy. He loved his grandbabies. He was real good, kind-hearted and never meant no harm."

Kingsport Police Chief Gale Osborne says France forced his officers' hand Saturday morning. He says they tried to negotiate a safe surrender with the man for more than a half hour before he aimed a gun at them.

According to Chief Osborne, "some" of his offers are now on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol. However, he says if they feel up to it they can return to work as early as Wednesday.

"We will have a critical incident response debriefing Wednesday," Chief Osborne said. "We want to protect our officers too."

Osborne praised his officers and Tennessee Highway Patrol for their roles Saturday in what he calls a "justified" shooting.

Still, as is normal with all officer-involved shootings, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is taking a closer look at France's death.

"TBI is investigating the shooting and will turn the case file over to the District Attorney General for review upon completion," TBI Public Information Officer Kristin Helm said. "Agents investigate and gather evidence and the DA will determine if anything in the case file rises to a criminal level."

------------

The first few seconds of video is from an eye witness during the shooting. You can hear the gun fire.

Kingsport Police Chief Gale Osborne says around 12:29 this morning Kingsport Police Officers received a call to be on the look out for a suspect after shots were fired during a domestic dispute in Hawkins County.

Chief Osborne says shortly after that Kingsport officers located the suspect driving near Oak and Dale Street and pulled him over. Osborne says when officers approached the car the suspect drew his gun. He says officers then attempted to negotiate with the suspect, but had to engage in gun fire.

“Right at 1:14am shots were fired. We had Kingsport officers on the scene and we had THP on the scene as well,” says Chief Osborne.

The victim was pronounced dead at the scene. At this time the name of the suspect is not being released. Chief Osborne says the police department is currently trying to notify the suspect’s next of kin.

11 Connects will bring you an update on this story in our 6pm newscast.