Port Orange Police have released the names of the suspect and the officers involved in a shooting incident Friday Night. POPD Chief Thomas Grimaldi said the deceased suspect is Robert A. Powell, 53, of Daytona Beach. Chief Grimaldi said Powell approached officers around 9 p.m. Friday in the City Center area. As officers began to speak to him, he abruptly left the scene, and his Jeep struck officer Wayne Jean. Officers pursued Powell for a short distance, and he pulled into the Coral Bay Villas, near Dunlawton Ave. and Clyde Morris Blvd. Grimaldi said Powell got out of his vehicle, firing multiple shots with a handgun at the officers on scene. Police returned fire, killing Powell in the parking lot of the apartments. Officer Jean was taken to a hospital for the injuries he suffered from Powell's vehicle. He had minor injuries, and was treated and released. None of the officers was hit by Powell's gunfire. The POPD said officers Wayne Jean, Jacob Bissonnette, and Sgt. Warren Carmen shot at Powell. All three have been placed on administrative leave, pending the investigation by the State Attorney, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. Additional information on the incident is expected as the investigation proceeds.

Port Orange Police have released the names of the suspect and the officers involved in a shooting incident Friday Night. POPD Chief Thomas Grimaldi said the deceased suspect is Robert A. Powell, 53, of Daytona Beach. Chief Grimaldi said Powell approached officers around 9 p.m. Friday in the City Center area. As officers began to speak to him, he abruptly left the scene, and his Jeep struck officer Wayne Jean.

Officers pursued Powell for a short distance, and he pulled into the Coral Bay Villas, near Dunlawton Ave. and Clyde Morris Blvd. Grimaldi said Powell got out of his vehicle, firing multiple shots with a handgun at the officers on scene. Police returned fire, killing Powell in the parking lot of the apartments.

Advertisement

Officer Jean was taken to a hospital for the injuries he suffered from Powell's vehicle. He had minor injuries, and was treated and released. None of the officers was hit by Powell's gunfire. The POPD said officers Wayne Jean, Jacob Bissonnette, and Sgt. Warren Carmen shot at Powell. All three have been placed on administrative leave, pending the investigation by the State Attorney, and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

Additional information on the incident is expected as the investigation proceeds.