A coroner’s jury Thursday found police were justified in the shooting death of Frank Joey Half Jr. during a 10-hour standoff with law enforcement at a Billings sporting goods store in November.

The six-member jury deliberated for roughly 30 minutes before returning the verdict for the Nov. 4 standoff at Big Bear Sports Center. The jury was tasked with determining by majority vote whether Half’s death was a deliberate homicide or a justifiable homicide under state law.

Montana law requires a coroner’s inquest anytime someone dies at the hands of law enforcement or in custody. The county attorney makes the ultimate decision on whether to file criminal charges.

The three-day inquest was punctuated by emotional moments in the courtroom, as roughly a dozen members of Half’s family reacted to seeing him on video footage played for jurors.

Each of the eight officers who testified said Half had multiple opportunities to surrender peacefully but declined, leaving them no other option than to shoot.

Officers testified Half behaved erratically throughout the standoff, staging loaded guns in different sections of the store.

The standoff began shortly after 2 a.m., after Half crashed his SUV into the front doors of Big Bear. He’d come from Walmart across the street, where employees on the overnight shift said he forced his way through a set of closed doors, brandished a knife and took ammunition.

The first officers on scene at Big Bear said alarms in the gun section of the store were going off. More officers were called and during the next 10 hours, members of Billings Police Department’s SWAT, patrol, and detective units responded, barricading shut emergency exits with patrol vehicles and parking city dump trucks outside the main doors to contain stray bullets.

At times Half would stand for minutes on end with his hands in the air, video footage showed. But in every instance, he kept a barrier between himself and officers, said Officer Timothy Doll, the lead negotiator, and Half never fully complied with officer commands to drop his weapons and exit the store.

At one point, Half was sitting on the cashier’s counter near the front of the store, beckoning for officers to enter the building, Detective Ryan Kramer testified Thursday.

Half had meth in his system and no alcohol, according to Dr. Robert Kurtzman, the chief medical examiner for Montana. Kurtzman, who performed Half’s autopsy, said Half died from the seven gunshot wounds he sustained.

During the first hour of the standoff, before the full SWAT team or the armored vehicle had arrived, police tried to communicate with Half.

Sgt. Nathan West told Half he didn't want to get hurt and he didn't want to hurt Half, and to put down the gun he was holding. West said Half responded by swearing at him and telling him to "'come out here where I can get you.'"

After the second time officers fired at Half, police in the command center gained access to the store’s video cameras, which showed Half with a rifle by his side, putting on a bulletproof vest.

Half’s actions showed that he wanted to kill a police officer, Lt. Brandon Wooley said.

“That’s absurd,” one of Half’s family members sitting in the gallery said in response.

Wooley continued testifying that if Half had merely wanted to commit “suicide by cop” he would not have concealed himself in the store over the course of hours, as he did.

After Half ducked behind a tent and officers fired at him a third time, video showed him not moving. But officers waited roughly 20 minutes to enter the building, Lt. Shawn Mayo said, because Half had previously tried to trick them and they did not trust he would not fire again.

It also took time for the city SWAT team to coordinate with the Yellowstone County SWAT team, multiple officers testified.

Big Bear owners announced in December they would not reopen the Billings store for the holiday shopping season. In February they announced the sale of their Great Falls store but declined to comment on the future of the Billings store until its insurance claims had been worked out. They've since sold off store furniture and retail displays at the Billings store.

The owners could not be reached for questions Thursday.

DCI review

Yellowstone County Attorney Scott Twito, who presented evidence in the inquest, said he would complete a final review of the case before deciding whether to file charges in Half’s death.

He’ll put that decision in a memo he’ll send to BPD and to the Montana Department of Justice’s Division of Criminal Investigation. DCI reviewed BPD’s internal investigation of the standoff, which Twito said was new for coroner’s inquests in Yellowstone County.

“We had DCI review the investigation to make sure they wouldn’t do anything differently,” Twito said.

Twito stressed that his office is not “beholden” to either the police department or the sheriff’s office and that he wanted coroner's juries to have all the information they needed to make a decision.

Twito said he, Sheriff Mike Linder and Police Chief Rich St. John had recently “put our heads together” to try to find ways to improve the inquest process.

Twito acknowledged that having law enforcement agencies conduct internal investigations on their own officer-involved shootings was not the “gold standard for ensuring public confidence,” but that doing so locally was necessary due to limited resources.

DCI does not have the capacity to handle all investigations for officer-involved shootings in the state’s largest city, Twito said.

“It’s just really a resource allocation thing,” he said. “That’s the reality.”

Lewis and Clark County Coroner Bryan Backeberg presided over the inquest.