Dianne L Stallings

Ruidoso News

Officer also sustained injuries, but in stable condition

One woman died and a man was wounded early Sunday when they were confronted by Ruidoso police officers as they apparently were attempting to steal a vehicle.

A statement from the New Mexico State Police said that about 7 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 5, the agency's Police Investigations Bureau was requested to investigate an officer-involved shooting in Ruidoso.

The release stated that investigators responded and learned that around 6:20 a.m., Ruidoso Police Department units were dispatched to a residence on Timberline Drive about a burglary in progress. Shortly after the first officer arrived on scene he called out "shots fired" over the radio.

The responding officer was outside his police vehicle when he was struck by both suspects who were driving two separate vehicles. The vehicles were attempting to flee the scene, according to the statement.

The first vehicle, a Ford Mustang, driven by Johnathon Brownell, 28, drove into and struck the officer. The officer fired, striking Brownell, the state police report stated.

The second vehicle, a Ford pickup, driven by Marlysa Sanchez, 31, of Los Lunas, drove into the officer, striking him a second time and knocking him to the ground. The officer fired his weapon, striking Sanchez, who sustained fatal gunshot wounds and was pronounced deceased at the scene.

Brownell attempted to flee the scene, striking an additional police vehicle, the report stated. Brownell subsequently was taken into custody and was transported for his injuries to University Medical Center in El Paso by air ambulance. Currently he is listed in stable condition.

The officer sustained injuries during this incident, but is in stable condition.

A warrant was signed for Brownell for the following charges: Aggravated battery upon a peace officer (three counts); assault with intent to commit a violent felony on a peace officer; receiving or transferring a stolen vehicle; aggravated fleeing a law enforcement officer; and driving while license suspended, according to the state police.

When Brownell is released from medical care, he will be booked on these charges, the release stated.