Updated at 12:28 p.m.

GREENSBORO — Those who filed into the chapel at First Presbyterian Church at noon today sought consolation and hope after a weekend of especially horrific tragedies here and across the country.

"To mourn... and to lean into God and God's hope for us," said the Rev. Dolly Jacobs, one of the church's pastors.

Some lit candles for others. Others bowed their heads.

Many absorbed the silence surrounding them.

The church offered space for people to come together over a litany of tragedies, from the overnight Saturday crash that resulted in the deaths of five people on Battleground Avenue, to Sunday night's shooting massacre in Las Vegas, with at least 58 people dead and more than 500 injured.

There there's the human devastation tied to Hurricanes Maria, Irma and Harvey that's keeping people awake at night, said church member Ann Alexander.

"Oh Lord, hear our prayer," they sang.

Others then said aloud prayer requests.

"Prayer for victims and bystanders and all who were responding," said one woman, not mentioning a specific event, as her voice rose from the pews.

GREENSBORO — A high-speed two-vehicle crash that killed five people — including two so badly disfigured that police struggled to identify them — had one survivor:

A dog.

The mixed-breed black dog, spared in the mangle of metal, is now in the care of relatives of his owner.

Everyone else — three people in a 2003 silver Acura, which authorities believe was stolen, and two people in a Kia Optima — was killed on impact, police said.

Stephanie Louise Warshauer, 32, was in her Optima, and was accompanied by 29-year-old Alyssa Mackenzie Bolick. Both women lived in Greensboro. One of them owned the dog.

Inside the Acura were: Deshon Lee Manuel, 42; Theresa Monique Kingcade, 34; and Bruce Wayne Hunt, 40. All were from Greensboro.

Police say Manuel was the driver of the Acura.

“The crash was very forceful in its impact, making identification challenging,” said Susan Danielsen, a spokeswoman for the Greensboro Police Department, which has taken over the investigation for the sheriff’s office.

It happened just before midnight Saturday. At 11:27 p.m., a Guilford County Sheriff’s deputy spotted the Acura headed south on Battleground Avenue. The driver was operating in a manner a police department spokeswoman called “suspicious.”

The deputy, who authorities haven’t identified, ran the license plate number through the National Crime Information Center database, which revealed it had been stolen from an apartment complex on East Meadowview Road on Sept. 13, according to Greensboro police.

When the deputy turned on his blue lights and siren, the driver sped through the New Garden Road intersection, hitting the Optima.

The vehicle came to a rest in front of the First National Bank.

Greensboro Fire Assistant Chief Dwayne Church said firefighters had to cut the women out of the Optima.

One vehicle was twisted in every direction. Only the backseat remained.

Flying debris damaged other vehicles nearby, but no one else was injured. Police and deputies temporarily closed the street to investigate and to keep cars away from the metal and glass strewn across the roadway.

Most motorists driving to work or church or running errands Sunday morning couldn’t see the horror of what happened.

A deputy dug through the bushes in front of the bank. Police tape remained around a telephone pole at the corner of the intersection. Shards of glass glistened in the sun.

Shoes lay near a pile of glass at the bank’s driveway.

It was unclear Sunday night whether the sheriff’s deputy was pursuing the Acura. Greensboro police said the deputy was a quarter-mile behind the Acura when it hit Warshauer’s Optima.

The Guilford County Sheriff’s office said Sunday it couldn’t provide information on its chase policy or its policy on pursuing stolen vehicles.

In 2014, the Greensboro Police Department updated its policy involving chases after several high- profile cases and the criticism that followed.

According to the policy, when deciding whether to pursue a suspect, officers must evaluate the seriousness of the suspected crime; weather and road conditions; traffic and pedestrian volume; and public safety.