CHESAPEAKE

George Harris was 9 when his father drowned.

He stayed strong , his mother said, and did jobs around his family’s home in Norfolk, like cooking and mowing the lawn. He started helping financially at 16, working at a department store.

He maintained that work ethic and willingness to help as an adult, Annie Harris said.

George Harris, 51, was killed Tuesday when a car smashed into the Chesapeake garbage truck he was driving, police said. He was married and had a daughter.

The other driver, 27-year-old Courtney Horan of Norfolk, was charged with second-degree murder. He also is wanted in Pennsylvania on a larceny charge, police said.

“Why my son?” Annie Harris thought when she learned the news Tuesday night. “The only child I had was gone.”

The crash happened after a police pursuit that lasted less than one minute. About 12:35 p.m. Tuesday, police tried to pull over the driver of a Nissan Sentra headed west on Johnstown Road because the car didn’t have an inspection sticker, police said.

The driver took off, and police followed him to the intersection of Johnstown Road and Arthur’s Court. As the driver tried to pass another vehicle, he hit its back end and lost control, running into George Harris’ truck, which was headed east on Johnstown.

The Nissan and truck both landed in a deep ditch. Harris was taken to a hospital, where he later died. Horan and a passenger remain in a hospital recovering from serious injuries, Officer Kelly Elliott, a police spokeswoman, said Wednesday.

The driver and passenger of the rear-ended vehicle were not injured.

Elliott said officers consider numerous risk factors – including traffic and weather conditions – when deciding whether to pursue . Officers would have terminated the chase had it gone on longer, she said.

Records show Horan previously faced charges in connection with a 2014 New Jersey bank robbery.

His brother robbed a TD Bank in Woodbury, N.J., in July that year, and police accused Horan of driving the getaway car.

Horan was charged with conspiracy to commit robbery, hindering prosecution and possession of oxymorphone, according to court records from Gloucester County, N.J.

Horan was admitted to the New Jersey drug court program in January 2015. Drug court participants plead guilty when they enter the program, but a spokesman for the Gloucester County prosecutor’s office said those records are excluded from public access.

At the time of Horan’s arrest, police said he had a criminal record in Pennsylvania, according to an NJ Advanced Media news article.

Earl Sorey, assistant director for Chesapeake’s Public Works Department, said Harris was driving one of the city’s automated-side-loader garbage trucks. Harris had just finished his route and was heading back to headquarters in Greenbrier with a fully loaded truck.

Harris started working for Chesapeake in January 2016, city officials said.

“George had done everything as he was supposed to do,” Sorey said.

Annie Harris said her son graduated from Norview High School and spent most of his life around Hampton Roads. He was a good cook and liked singing, including at church services.

The two spoke on the phone daily and would take time to pray. “The grace of God” was holding Annie Harris up through this tough time, she said.

Mother and son prayed Tuesday morning, shortly before the crash.

“He was a good son,” she said.

Pilot writer Victoria Bourne contributed to this report.

Mike Connors, 757-222-5217, michael.connors@pilotonline.com Follow @Mikeconnors14 on Twitter.