The fatal shooting by police of a northeast Roanoke man has been ruled a justifiable homicide, Commonwealth’s Attorney Donald Caldwell said Tuesday.

The incident occurred late on Nov. 8, after a Roanoke police officer responded to an incident at a home in the 2600 block of Fairfield Drive.

Because the case involved the use of lethal force, Virginia State Police were brought in and, on Tuesday, Caldwell issued a report of his findings from that investigation.

He said Officer R.A. Howell approached the residence on foot a little after 10 p.m. and found an argument between two people — Victor Demetrius Bray, who was on the porch with a handgun, and Adrienne Hardin, who was in the yard.

Howell drew his service weapon and told Bray, “Get your hands down,” but Bray instead fired in the woman’s direction. Howell then fired 13 shots at the man, hitting him four times, Caldwell said.

Bray, 31, died at the scene. Neither Howell nor Hardin was injured.

Caldwell’s report said that earlier that evening, Bray had been arguing with his fiancee, Casey Dawn King, because King had recently filed for full custody of their 2-year-old daughter.

During their dispute, Caldwell said Bray fired a handgun into an unoccupied room. He also smashed King’s phone when she tried to call 911, then followed her outside when she attempted to leave with their child, the report said.

Caldwell said a male neighbor tried unsuccessfully to calm Bray down, and Bray was arguing with Hardin, who also lived at that address.

King had started walking away from the house with her child by the time police arrived, Caldwell said.

Howell wore a body camera during the incident. According to the video’s time coding, 62 seconds elapsed from the time Howell told dispatch he was approaching the house until the point he said shots had been fired.

The medical examiner’s office has listed the cause of Bray’s death as gunshot wounds to the head and chest. The investigation also determined his blood-alcohol content was 0.13 percent at the time of the incident.

According to the report, a 9mm handgun was found in Bray’s possession and evidence showed it was fired once inside the house that night and once from the porch.

Howell’s .40-caliber service weapon had a 16-round capacity, Caldwell said.

“Based upon the facts available to me at this time, I am of the opinion that Mr. Bray’s actions placed Officer Howell in a position where he reasonably believed that he, Ms. Hardin, and others were in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury,” Caldwell wrote in his report. He said the evidence indicated that neither malice nor gross, reckless disregard were factors in the shooting.

Bray and King lived together at the Fairfield Drive house for a little over three years. Police were called there on April 5, 2017, for a domestic incident, but no charges were placed, according to Caldwell’s report.

Howell has been with the Roanoke Police Department since August 2011. He was placed on administrative duty during the investigation and was returned to active duty on Tuesday, according to Deputy Chief Monti Lee.