PORT ST. LUCIE — A nightmare.

That’s how Mara Briand, 37, Thursday described an incident that began unfolding the evening before next to her home in a neighborhood near Southwest Becker Road and Southwest Savona Boulevard.

“It was very scary. I heard two gunshots,” Briand said. “I thought it was actually a car accident right out here.”

Port St. Lucie police said about 5:30 p.m. Wednesday, they went to a home in the 1000 block of Southwest Calmar Avenue.

More:Man found dead after domestic disturbance led to standoff in Port St. Lucie

According to an initial investigation, a woman who lives there had an argument with an ex-boyfriend. The ex-boyfriend got a shotgun, and as he was handling it, a shot was fired. The woman got out of the house, and went to a neighbor’s home.

Master Sgt. Frank Sabol, police spokesman, said Thursday a second shot at some point was fired, and the man appeared to have died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. SWAT officers entered the home after 11:30 p.m.

Police identified the man as 57-year-old Paul Andrew Panella. Investigators recovered a 16-gauge shotgun.

Yellow tape blocked off the home Thursday morning, and a four-door Chevrolet was in the driveway.

According to a police report, the woman told police she was at her home waiting for her ex-boyfriend, Panella, to come over and complete some tile work. She said Panella used to live with her, but they broke up seven months ago.

She said Panella was intoxicated and pulled his vehicle in the garage. She went in the garage and he opened the trunk and got a shotgun.

She said Panella told her to go in her bedroom and call her current boyfriend. They both went in her bedroom.

She said she’d call him, but said her phone was in the kitchen. When she got her phone, she called 911. She said Panella was “fooling with the gun” in the kitchen and it discharged, hitting the ceiling.

She ran to her neighbor’s home.

More:Protesters demand indictment in Gifford woman's shooting death during SWAT drug raid

Briand said the woman came out of her home and ran across the street.

“She was screaming,” Briand said. “She was screaming that … you’re going to kill me.”

Briand said the woman waved at her to get back inside. Briand said she called 911.

“She came running across the yard trying to get in,” Briand said. “She was very, very shaken, distraught, kind of mumbling out sentences, really couldn’t say too much, and then the police showed up and they were here for quite a few hours.”

Briand said the woman came in her home.

“That’s when it got scary, because I’ve got two kids,” Briand said. “My first instinct is, you see someone in trouble let them in, but I could have gotten myself in a bad situation, too.”

Briand said her children, ages 7 and 14, were “a little messed up by it,” but she said they will be OK.

“All of it was pretty scary,” she said. “It was a nightmare.”

More:Murder suspect's car found in Fort Pierce; U.S. Marshals searching for Larry Peavy

Just down the street, Carrie Cazares, 37, described the scene as somewhat chaotic.

“We had the cops, we had the SWAT, we had the tank, we had it all right here in our front yard,” she said.

Cazares recalled hearing what she thought was a firecracker about 5:15 p.m. She came out of her home to feed a stray cat, and saw law-enforcement officers

Bob Viggiano, 70, was walking a poodle named Penny and a shih tzu named Buddy Thursday morning by the home.

He said he’s lived in the neighborhood for about 10 years.

“It’s a quiet neighborhood,” he said. Its “kind of disconcerting.”