The Providence Journal

PROVIDENCE — A man shot dead by police officers after a pursuit in downtown Providence is not the same person who stole a state police cruiser earlier in the day, Providence Public Safety Commissioner Steven Paré said.

The man was killed and a woman who riding in the same white pickup truck is in Miriam Hospital; her condition is not known, Paré said.

Paré said police are still looking for Donald Morgan, 35, in connection with the theft of the cruiser.

No police officers were injured. Paré said several of the police officers involved in the shooting were wearing body cameras.

The incident closed Interstate 95 in both directions for a time after the police chased a white pickup truck onto a highway ramp near Providence Place mall.

The incident started with the theft of a Rhode Island State Police cruiser earlier Thursday. Col. Ann Assumpico said a trooper was transporting a suspect to court in a cruiser, and stopped at the scene of a crash on Route 146. The suspect, who was cuffed, was able to get into the driver's seat and drive away.

The cruiser was later located at 45 Vineyard St. in Providence.

Police closed the ramp to access Interstate 95 near the Providence Place mall. Many police cars are on the ramp to the interstate.

The police investigation appears focused on a white pickup truck on Interstate 95 near the on ramp. The passenger-side windows of the truck is shattered and what appear to be bullet holes can be seen on and under the back window of the truck.

It appears that the truck was hit from behind by several other vehicles. Several police cruisers are parked immediately behind it.

Investigators wearing white gloves are putting what appear to be shell-casing markers on the road near the truck. At least 12 are on the highway near the truck. Crime scene tape has been pulled across the on ramp.

Paré and Providence Police Maj. David Lapatin were on the highway ramp as the investigation proceeded.

At least eight police cruisers, marked and unmarked, from Providence and the state police are parked near the truck.

Traffic was again flowing on the highway before noon.

Providence public school officials locked down four West End schools in the area of Bucklin Street Thursday morning as word of a dangerous incident emerged.

The schools, Lima, Fortes and Leviton elementary schools, and Gilbert Stuart Middle School, were closed to outside access, but classes continued as scheduled, school district spokeswoman Laura Hart said.

The lockdown ended sometime after 11 a.m., Hart said.

Providence Place mall is open for business.

With reports from Alex Kuffner, Tom Mooney, Patrick Anderson and Katie Mulvaney, Journal staff writers