Autopsy report: Paul Jones III shot six times; alcohol found in his system Published 2:27 pm Monday, February 5, 2018

SALISBURY — An autopsy showed that Paul Jones III was shot six times, once in the head, after the robbery of a Wells Fargo bank on Nov. 9.

Jones shot at police officers, who returned fire.

The autopsy report, released Monday by the North Carolina Medical Examiner’s Office, also said that Jones, 25, had alcohol in his system.

The Salisbury Police Department responded to the area near the Wells Fargo Bank, 866 W. Jake Alexander Blvd., about 5 p.m. Nov. 9 on a report of an armed robbery in progress. Police said while inside the bank, Jones shot Jose Santiago, 61, in the face. Later, he stole a car belonging to Larry Darnell Dalton, 45, and shot him in the head and arm.

A short vehicle pursuit ensued. Officers say Jones fired at them and they returned fire.

The autopsy says Jones was shot in the right hip and the upper and lower back and had a superficial gunshot wound to the head.

The autopsy does not note whether any of the wounds were fatal.

A bullet that struck Jones’ hip also fractured a rib and was recovered from his body. The autopsy report says a bullet that struck him in the back did not cause injury to his spinal cord.

A fragment from a bullet that struck his head was taken from a ski mask worn by Jones.

A toxicology report says Jones had marijuana in his system and that his blood alcohol content was 0.02, which is less than the 0.08 legal limit for intoxication.

The toxicology report also details the presence of caffeine in Jones’ system.



Police said no motive for the robbery was ever determined.

Family members who spoke with a Post reporter said they do not know why Jones would have robbed a bank. The family also apologized to all of those involved in the bank robbery and subsequent shootings.

The family described Jones, who was known by the nickname “Third,” as a well-mannered, soft-spoken young man who was not known for violent behavior.

Contact reporter Shavonne Walker at 704-797-4253.