UPDATE 11/11/17 @ 5:55 p.m.

Family and friends of the two killed after a police chase and shootout in Flatwoods, Kentucky Thursday night say the fatal outcome did not need to happen.

Kentucky State Police identify the victims as Kiser Sturgell, 27, of Jackson, Ohio, and Ashley Jenkins, 23, of Lucasville, Ohio.

Sturgell was described as a fugitive from central Ohio. The Ross County Sheriff's Office says he fled Wednesday after U.S. Marshals attempted to serve a warrant on him.

KSP says Ohio authorities notified Greenup County 911 that the suspects could be headed that way in a stolen maroon Buick automobile. That car had been stolen in Ohio.

The pursuit continued over multiple roadways before coming to an end in the area of state routes 693 and 207 in Flatwoods.

KSP says police perceived a threat and fired shots into the vehicle. A rifle was later removed from Sturgell's possession.

"I can't believe it," said Earl Jenkins, Ashley's uncle. "I can't believe it happened."

Jenkins says he does not even think his niece had a chance to even respond to commands before shots were fired.

"I don't even think she had a chance to get out of the car," he said.

Jenkins says the two were a couple. Tributes for the pair on social media from friends and family say they are saddened by what happened and wish the outcome had not been so violent.

Several agencies responded to the scene and it is unlcear who fired the fatal shots.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

UPDATE 11/10/17 @ 5:45 p.m.

Both names have been released in a massive police chase and shooting that ended with two people killed.

Kentucky State Police identify the victims as Kiser Sturgell, 27, of Jackson, Ohio, and Ashley Jenkins, 23, of Lucasville, Ohio.

The chase ended about 10:25 p.m. Thursday in Flatwoods, Kentucky.

Sturgell was described as a fugitive from central Ohio. The Ross County Sheriff's Office says he fled Wednesday after U.S. Marshals attempted to serve a warrant on him.

KSP says Ohio authorities notified Greenup County 911 that the suspects could be headed that way in a stolen maroon Buick automobile. That car had been stolen in Ohio.

The pursuit continued over multiple roadways before coming to an end in the area of state routes 693 and 207 in Flatwoods.

"The cops was already standing out there and had their guns drawn, all that gunfire ... I pushed my son in the door and told him to go on, get in there," neighbor Stephen May said. "You never know when you get a stray bullet."

KSP says police perceived a threat and fired shots into the vehicle. A rifle was later removed from Sturgell's possession.

"I'm not believing that it's happening of course for one thing," Melanie Kersey said. "It was just crazy, I thought 'wow, this is happening right here in Flatwoods.' It seemed like a movie unfolding in front of your eyes. I mean it was crazy, it was just crazy."

Both victims were pronounced dead at the scene by the Greenup County coroner.

"They may have done wrong things but they were still someone's children," Kersey said. "I mean, they're still somebody's family and that's heartbreaking."

KSP, along with the Kentucky State Police Critical Incident Response Team, are investigating.

Officers from Flatwoods, Bellefonte and Russell police departments were on scene when the shots were fired. It has not been disclosed who fired the fatal shots.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

UPDATE 11/10/17 @ 3:55 p.m.

One of two people killed Thursday night in a police chase and shooting was a fugitive from central Ohio, the Ross County Sheriff's Office reports.

The department says Kiser Sturgell had been considered armed and dangerous and was on the run since U.S. Marshals attempted to serve a warrant on him Wednesday in Ross County, Ohio.

Sturgell was one of two people who died after a massive police chase involving multiple agencies and reports of up to 20 shots fired.

It happened in the vicinity of Bellefonte Road in Flatwoods.

The Ross County Sheriff's Office reports that Sturgell ran out of a home Wednesday night, threatening to shoot anyone who came after him. Deputies lost him in the woods, but Sturgell later stole a car at gunpoint about a half hour later, the sheriff's office reports.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

UPDATE 11/10/17 @ 12:50 p.m.

We're still awaiting the identities of two people shot and killed Thursday night in a massive police shooting after a chase.

Meanwhile, neighbors are trying to wind down after a night some described as "something out of a movie."

They say several officers rushed down state Route 693. Before and after the entrance to state Route 207, they say the suspect vehicle came up Route 207 followed by police, cut through yards, and then crashed.

Neighbors then heard around 20 or so shots being fired. One man said he rushed his son inside as it all was happening.

Police have not confirmed who was first to shoot -- from the suspect vehicle or police. Neighbors say they're just thankful no one else was injured.

Kentucky State Police are expected to release more information Friday afternoon.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

UPDATE 11/10/17 @ 3:30 a.m.

Two people were shot and killed by police after a chase.

Trooper Michael Murriell with Kentucky State Police says several law enforcement agencies in Greenup County were chasing a vehicle late Thursday night.

The chase ended near the intersection of Route 693 and Route 207 in Flatwoods. That’s where neighbors reported hearing as many as 20 gunshots.

Murriell says the two people in the vehicle died after they were shot by police. He could not confirm who opened fire first.

KSP is also not commenting yet on what led to the chase.

"I looked out the side window, and there was a car coming from 207," neighbor Melanie Kersey said, "and police cars were behind it, and the other police cars had already set up a road block, and the car coming from 207 cut through the neighbor's yard. They were trying to get around the road block. Right after that, I heard a bunch of gunshots."

A Critical Incident Response Team from Frankfort is on its way to assist with processing the scene and investigating.

Investigators are expected to remain at the scene overnight, and morning commuters are asked to avoid the area.

"If there is anything good that occurred, it is the that that there weren't other injuries due to the neighborhood that it occurred in," Murriell said. "It's a very residential neighborhood, several houses, and the time also played a factor into that where there weren't people outside that could've been injured."

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.

ORIGINAL STORY 11/9/17

There is a large law enforcement presence late Thursday night after an incident in Flatwoods in the area of Bellefonte Road, our crew at the scene reports.

Kentucky State Police are among the agencies there.

Witnesses tell WSAZ they heard as many as 20 shots fired during a massive police chase.

Details about the incident aren’t being released at this time. It was reported just before 10:30 p.m. Thursday.

Keep checking WSAZ Mobile and WSAZ.com for the latest information.