Dan Copp Staff Writer

Authorities have identified the man who was shot and killed by deputies during a standoff in Gibson Friday night and said he was suicidal.

The man has been identified as 55-year-old Terry A. Dubois Jr.

Deputies were dispatched to a mobile home at 214 Fandal St. at 4:29 p.m. to investigate reports of a fight between Dubois and his girlfriend, the Terrebonne Parish Sheriff's Office said. After deputies arrived, the girlfriend left the home, leaving Dubois alone inside.

Armed with an AR-15 assault rifle and a pistol, Dubois barricaded himself inside the trailer and refused to cooperate, authorities said. After a SWAT team arrived on the scene, officers cordoned off the area and negotiated with him for about four hours.

Neighbors say officers fired tear gas into the mobile home in an effort to drive Dubois out.

Dubois then tossed out a suicide note and barged out of the trailer armed with the handgun and the assault rifle strapped to his side, Sheriff Jerry Larpenter said.

Deputies first shot Dubois with beanbags from a shotgun, but he pointed his assault rifle at the officers and got at least one shot off before he was shot and killed, Larpenter said. No deputies were injured during the incident.

In days leading up to the shooting, Dubois had been suffering from depression and became addicted to drugs, Larpenter said.

“It’s a shame it had to end that way,” the sheriff said. “We don’t ever want to see it end that way, but it only ends that way in the hands of the suspects. There are times when you have to stop the threat. What we gathered from his family, suicide was his intention. Apparently he lost his job, was depressed and started using drugs. It’s a sad situation for the suspect and his family and also for the officers that had to shoot. They have to live with it, but it’s part of our job.”

Morgan City resident David Devillier, who owns the mobile home and property that Dubois and his girlfriend lived in, said he never had any problems with Dubois during his limited interactions with him.

“He hadn’t been here that long, just maybe two months,” Devillier said. “I never had any issues with him. He paid his rent on time.”

Fandal Street resident Gregory Johnson painted a different picture of Dubois.

“During the two months I saw him I thought there was something not right about him,” Johnson said Saturday. “He used to come outside carrying an AK-47 in the middle of the night. When I first met him he had a bad attitude. He was never very friendly. He definitely had some kind of problem. The police gave him umpteenth opportunities to come out, but I guess he had death on him.”

Neighbor Edward Smithson said he knew Dubois for about 30 years and has his contact information saved on his flip phone.

“Terry was a good boy, just a little hot-headed,” Smithson said. “But he was a good friend.”

Dubois had worked as a welder and pipe fitter and also dabbled in the motorcycle business, Smithson said.

Smithson said his friend seemed strange when he last spoke to him around noon Friday.

“He came to my house to talk to me, and I noticed his head was tilted down,” Smithson said. “I asked him if he was sick and he said, 'no.' I told him he didn’t look right, and he said everything would be OK later that night. It didn’t dawn on me at that point.”

Later that night, Smithson said he heard the fatal gunshots that took the life of his friend.

“I never saw something like this this coming,” Smithson said, shaking his head.

State Police are investigating the incident.

--Staff Writer Dan Copp can be reached at 857-2202 or at dan.copp@houmatoday.com. Follow him on Twitter@DanVCopp.