By West Kentucky Star Staff Nov. 12, 2017 | 08:31 PM | CALLOWAY COUNTY, KY

One man is dead following a two-county pursuit and police standoff Sunday afternoon.

According to the Calloway County Sheriff's Office, at approximately 2 pm, deputies stopped a vehicle on Buffalo Road in New Concord, for a traffic violation. During the stop, the passenger, 33-year-old Trever R. Trull, of Deer Lodge, Montana, became very uncooperative and refused to provide his identity.

Trull then gained control of the vehicle and eluded deputies until he wrecked on Tea Rose Road. Trull then fled on foot and assaulted a man on Clayshire Drive and stole his vehicle. Police spotted the vehicle a short time later on Tennessee 140 in Henry County, TN at the Shady Grove Market.

Police said Trull was in the process of robbing the establishment, where he took two guns and a vehicle. He then led deputies on a pursuit back into Calloway County. Deputies were able to use stop spikes to disable the stolen vehicle in the area of Justice Road on Murray Paris Road, south of Murray.

The vehicle wrecked a short time later in the area of 1900 Murray Paris Road. A standoff ensued where Trull allegedly produced a gun and threatened to harm himself. The standoff ended when Trull discharged the gun, causing a self-inflicted wound. Trull was treated at the scene and transported to the Murray-Calloway County Hospital where he was pronounced dead.

The investigation continued to the home where Trull was staying on Saddle Lane, in New Concord. At the home, deputies found a stolen vehicle out of Henry County, TN. Deputies say the investigation is ongoing in an attempt to locate other stolen property and pending charges on others involved.

During the initial incident, a responding deputy was involved in a non-injury accident. According to Kentucky State Police, 37-year-old Brandon Winebarger, of Hazel, was driving his police cruiser south on Tea Rose Road, near the intersection of Wedgewood Drive. Upon approaching a sharp right curve, Winebarger steered his cruiser off the roadway to avoid another vehicle stopped in the road, striking a tree.