The 44-year-old Rancho Tehama gunman who went on a shooting rampage last month died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, the Tehama County Sheriff's Office said Friday.

Assistant Sheriff Phil Johnston said in a news release that Kevin Jason Neal, who shot and killed five Rancho Tehama residents, including his wife, died during the Nov. 14 shootout with law enforcement officers.

There were two law enforcement officers, a Corning police officer and a sheriff's deputy, who exchanged gunfire with Neal. The law enforcement officers, who were not identified by name, were not hurt.

The news release said Neal was seen in a pickup on Rancho Tehama Road firing multiple rounds from a rifle out the driver’s window at a vehicle driven by 34-year-old Francisco Cardenas.

Cardenas’ vehicle had 15 bullet holes and he suffered a gunshot wound in the leg with additional shrapnel injuries from bullets ripping through his vehicle. He survived his injuries and is recovering from his wounds.

According to the news release, the Corning police officer chased the vehicle westbound on Rancho Tehama Road as shots were being fired.

The officer rammed the vehicle, forcing it off the road.

Neal immediately started firing rounds at the officer, whose vehicle was hit five times.

Meanwhile, the sheriff’s deputy arrived almost simultaneously and Neal fired multiple rounds at him.

The deputy’s vehicle was struck three times and both officers returned fire.

The Corning officer fired four rounds at the shooter and the deputy fired eight, according to the news release.

After this exchange of gunfire, the news release said, Neal stopped and was found dead in the driver’s seat with an obvious gunshot wound to the head.

More: Sheriff's documents show growing feud between Rancho Tehama shooter and his neighbors

An autopsy was performed on Nov. 15 and the evidence and examination conducted by a forensic pathologist concluded Neal died as a result of a self-inflicted gunshot to the head.

The Sheriff s Office has concluded the officers involved in the shoot-out acted in the defense of Cardenas, the community and themselves.

"Both officers were within the law and have returned to work at their perspective agencies," the news release said.

The Sheriff's Office concluded that Neal acted alone.

Neal shot and killed five people and wounded 12, including six children, during his rampage, but it's believed he killed, his wife, Barbara Ann Gilsan, 38, the day before.

Her body was found hidden under the floorboards of their home.

The Tehama County Sheriff's Office has identified those killed as: Michelle Iris McFadyen, 55, Danny Lee Elliot, 38, Diana Lee Steele, 68, Joseph Edward McHugh II, 56, and Gilsan, all of Rancho Tehama.

More: Rancho Tehama shooting victims: 'We threw a dart in the middle of nowhere, and it happened here'

The adults injured were: Tiffany Nai Phommathep, 31, James A. Wood Sr., 43, James A. Wood Jr., 20, Troy Lee McFadyen, 47, Jessie Allen Sanders, 39, and Francisco Gudino Cardenas, 34, all also Rancho Tehama residents.

The Sheriff's Office is not naming the children wounded.

During his shooting spree, Neal opened fire at the Rancho Tehama Elementary School, which was on lockdown.

Sheriff's officials have praised school officials for their quick action, adding the carnage could have been much worse if they had not done so.

More:

Rancho Tehama still seeing an outpouring of help

Would bail reform have prevented the Rancho Tehama rampage?

At GoFundMe, Rancho Tehama victims' families share stories of terror

Custodian, staff praised for courage at school shooting

Gunman's mother says son was frustrated by feud