10 a.m. Update:

Chief of APD Justin Doll took to the podium Thursday morning following the shooting overnight where police officers killed an armed suspect.

The deceased has been identified as Thomas Barclay, who had multiple outstanding warrants for his arrest, including felony assault, obstruction, and a felony DUI.

Officers allegedly located Barclay in the Fred Meyer parking lot and he attempted to drive away. According to Doll, officers with APD broke one of his car's windows after barricading his vehicle. They ordered him to exit through the now-broken window.

That's when, Doll said in a press conference, Barclay turned a handgun on officers, and was subsequently shot dead.

Doll said that three officers were involved in the shooting, but will not release their names for a mandatory 72 hour period.

Police said that, at first, APD believed Barclay shot two rounds at officers, however as of Thursday morning, investigators were " not yet been able to confirm how many shots Barclay fired," if any.

Doll also mentioned that Barclay's significant other was in the passenger seat, but left the vehicle before any shooting occurred.

Original Story:

One man was killed by police late Wednesday night after allegedly opening fire on police. Thursday morning, APD is investigating the officer-involved shooting, and is expected to issue a press release addressing those events.

According to police, they were attempting to serve a felony warrant at around 11:20 p.m. on Nov. 15, when the man they had located attempted to drive away from the scene.

Police say officers pinned the man's car with police vehicles, preventing him from fleeing. That's when, according to a police alert, the suspect drew a gun and started shooting at officers.

According to police, after the suspect started shooting, officers responded by opening fire as well, eventually shooting and killing the man. APD said in the alert that no officers were injured in the incident.

The officers involved have been placed on administrative leave. When "officer-involved shootings" occur, police mandate that 48 hours pass before they identify the officer or officers who discharged their issued firearms.

The identity of the man killed has not yet been released yet. Police say the Office of Special Prosecution will be handling the case.

Crime scene investigators were still on the scene early Thursday morning.

A press conference is scheduled for 10 a.m. Thursday with APD Chief Justin Doll. KTUU will be attending that press conference and streaming it live on our website. Please check back here for updates.