A man died after he was shot Sunday night after a chase involving Greenville County Sheriff's Office deputies.

Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis said the man was brandishing a firearm after his vehicle crashed into a building at 408 Cedar Lane Road.

Lewis said his deputies first attempted to use "less-than-lethal options."

"It escalated from there," Lewis said while talking to reporters in the parking lot of Mount Calvary Baptist Church. "Our deputies were threatened in such a way where they had to fire on the suspect.

"They fired at least one time, striking him," Lewis said. "Just a few minutes ago I found that he was pronounced deceased at the hospital."

Lewis said the chase that led to the shooting began about 7 p.m. when Traveler's Rest police began pursuing a suspected drunken driver. The chase proceeded into an unincorporated area of Greenvlle County, which is where deputies and the South Carolina Highway Patrol become involved in the pursuit.

Lewis said the vehicles involved in the chase were going 35 to 40 mph and that traffic was light.

During the chase, Lewis said, the suspected DUI driver struck a deputy's vehicle "for all accounts intentionally the best we can figure.”

In effort to prevent the chase from reaching downtown Greenville, Lewis said a deputy "initiated a maneuver that would disable the suspect’s vehicle."

Moments later, Lewis said "the suspect spun out" and the back of his vehicle rammed into the appliance repair business at 408 Cedar Lane Road. That is where the shooting happened.

While still in the car, the suspect armed himself with a pistol, said Sgt. Ryan Flood, Sheriff's Office spokesman. Deputies attempted to negotiate with the suspect, before the suspect ultimately turned the firearm at deputies and presented it in a threatening manner, Flood said.

The suspect was taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead.

The State Law Enforcement Division has been called to investigate, Flood said.

The identity of the man who was fatally shot had not been released late Sunday night.

Follow Kirk Brown on Twitter @KirkBrown_AIM and contact him via email @kirkbrown@independentmail.com