Police shot and killed a knife-wielding man and rescued his 7-month-old daughter after he held her hostage inside a car at a Covina park for six hours on Sunday, authorities said.

The baby appeared unharmed and no officers were injured as police used flash-bang grenades, then fired shots, as they snatched the baby from the car and seized her father about 10:30 p.m., Covina police Sgt. Ray Marquez said.

The suspect, whose identity was not available, died at the scene, Deputy Kelvin Moody of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Information Bureau said in a written statement.

The incident began about 2:45 p.m. in front of Kahler Russel Park, 735 N. Glendora Ave, Covina police Sgt. Ray Marquez said.

An officer on patrol noticed a man and woman arguing in a white Toyota Scion that was parked oddly in the driveway, officials said.

The woman obeyed a request from an officer to get out of the car, Marquez said. But the man refused to exit and brandished a pocket knife at police, as the couple’s infant daughter remained in the car with him.

Officers shocked the suspect with a Taser, but it failed to subdue him and he managed to pull the device’s conductive darts from his body, according to the sergeant.

The situation then turned into a standoff as police summoned to the scene a SWAT team, crisis negotiators and mental health specialists, Marquez said. The man, a 22-year-old Covina resident and parolee, had made threats to harm his girlfriend and himself.

Officials continued talking with the man and trying to persuade him to release the baby and surrender peacefully, Marquez said. Police used an extra degree of caution due to the baby inside the car.

SWAT officers made their move shortly after 10 p.m., using flash-bang grenades to distract and disorient the suspect as they rushed the car, Marquez said.

At least one officer fired a weapon during the rescue, fatally wounding the suspect, according to police and sheriff’s officials. No further details were available regarding the circumstances of the confrontation or what prompted police to shoot.

The baby and her mother appeared to be unharmed, officials said. No officers were injured.

The investigation is being handled by detectives from the Sheriff’s Homicide Bureau.

Anyone with information can reach investigators at 323-890-5500. Tips may also be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.