ABOVE: Reno-area TV news coverage from the night of the shooting

On Tuesday night a lone gunman barricaded himself and a female hostage into an eighth-floor condominium in downtown Reno and proceeded to fire between 20 and 50 rounds from a rifle onto the street below over a roughly 30-minute period. He was eventually shot by SWAT team members who were able to breach the room and was later pronounced dead at an area hospital. Except for a woman who suffered a minor hand abrasion that did not require medical attention there were no reported injuries.

Luke Stone | LinkedIn

Yesterday, Reno law enforcement identified the shooter as 30-year-old Lucas Stone, a Humboldt County native and graduate of Arcata High School and College of the Redwoods. The Reno Gazette-Journal reports that Stone had recently moved to the area from Sacramento, had no prior criminal history and had recently divorced.

According to law enforcement, numerous calls reporting an active shooter firing from a The Montage condominium complex on North Sierra Street — in the heart of Reno’s downtown casino district — were received just before 7 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 28. Officers from several law enforcement agencies closed down the street, evacuated the area and were able to make contact with the unnamed hostage and Stone, who continued to fire his weapon.

“Members with the Reno Police and Washoe County Sheriff’s SWAT team converged on the suspect’s room and an officer-involved shooting occurred,” said a release providing details on the incident. “Medical personnel already on scene rendered aid to the suspect who was transported to an area hospital where he was declared deceased.”



Police continue to investigate but have yet to uncover Stone’s motive. They have suggested he may have been hallucinating during the incident.

“The preliminary findings appear that the suspect was shooting at subjects that did not exist from the interior of his residence.”

As a side note, numerous media outlets that have covered this shooting also mentioned that Stephen Paddock, the shooter who killed 58 people in Las Vegas earlier this year, owned a condo at The Montage until December 2016.

ELSEWHERE: Downtown Reno active shooting suspect ID’d as 30-year-old Lucas Stone

# # #

Press release from the Sparks Police Department below: