The New York State Attorney General's Office has concluded that no charges are warranted against Greenburgh police officers in the 2017 death of a Yonkers politician's relative, who was struck by a stun gun and restrained by law enforcement.

The report, released Monday, found that criminal charges against the officers were not warranted in the death of Jonathan Maldonado, the 21-year-old nephew of Yonkers City Council President Mike Khader. Immediate calls to Khader's communications staff were not immediately returned.

Even though the officers were not charged, Attorney General Letitia James’ Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit provided several policy recommendations to the department that include better usage of body cameras and notification of the family.

“Jonathan Maldonado’s death was a tragedy and we convey our deepest sympathies to his family and loved ones," James said in a statement. "The Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit is committed to executing a thorough investigation and providing the public with a clear and complete accounting of any death."

In November 2017, Maldonado entered a Best Buy store at 299 North Central Park Avenue in Hartsdale around 5:40 p.m.

Moments later, the report says, store employees heard an alarm activated for a displayed iPhone X. Maldonado, 21, then left the store, and several employees chased after him.

A Best Buy employee called out to Maldonado, saying, “Sir, can you come over here?”

Several Best Buy employees chased Maldonado around three blocks, where they surrounded him to prevent him from leaving.

Around 5:48 p.m., one of the store employees called 911 to report the alleged larceny and to request police assistance.

Maldonado tried to leave, but he was pushed to the ground. Maldonado eventually said he couldn't breathe and he was allowed to lift himself up while still on his knees, according to the reports.

As Greenburgh police vehicles approached, the report says, Maldonado told the Best Buy employees: “I don’t care about the cops. I just don’t want to get caught with this stuff.”

Maldonado then removed a small pouch from his pants pocket, took out several small white glassine envelopes, and put them in his mouth. Several envelopes that were discovered in his mouth were later found to contain heroin and fentanyl.

A Best Buy employee told the officer that Maldonado put the drugs in his mouth, according to the report. The officer then took Maldonado to the ground from behind, bringing his face to the ground.

The officer laid on Maldonado’s back, trying to remove the items from Maldonado’s mouth and yelling for Maldonado to “spit it out.”

Maldonado didn't comply, twisted his body and wouldn't move his hands from underneath his body when the officer tried to handcuff him.

A second Greenburgh police officer arrived and attempted to help place handcuffs on Maldonado, but he kept his hands underneath his body.

A third officer arrived at the scene and activated his Taser twice, once in the back for around five seconds and another time in Maldonado's leg for a similar amount of time. After the second Taser activated, Maldonado became limp.

Maldonado was handcuffed and placed in a sitting position on the ground with his legs extended in front of him. Doses of overdose-reversing drug Narcan were given to him, but Maldonado was later pronounced dead.

Conflicting findings

An autopsy report by Dr. Aleksander Milovanovic, with the Westchester County Department of Laboratories and Research, found Maldonado’s cause of death to be “acute mixed drug intoxication” (fentanyl, acetyl fentanyl, methoxy acetyl fentanyl and heroin), and the manner of death to be “accidental.”

Thus, the Westchester County Medical Examiner’s autopsy report concluded that the actions of the officers when they arrested Maldonado weren't the cause of his death.

However, the medical examiner couldn’t rule out the presence of the glassine envelopes in the back of Maldonado’s mouth, his struggle with the police, and/or the use of the Taser contributed to his death.

At the request of Maldonado’s family, private forensic pathologist Dr. Michael Baden reviewed the medical examiner's autopsy report and findings.

Unlike Milovanovic, Baden concluded that Maldonado died because of his interaction with the officers, according to the report.

Having rejected an overdose as Maldonado’s cause of death, Baden found that Maldonado’s death was caused exclusively by police conduct.

In particular, he suggested that pressure on Maldonado’s back as he lay face down prevented the decedent's diaphragm from moving, resulting in respiratory arrest. He suggests that the use of the Taser on Maldonado caused cardiac arrest.

However, aside from the initial interaction with the first patrol officer to respond to the vicinity, there's no evidence that any significant or steady pressure was placed on Maldonado’s back as the officers attempted to restrain him.

Recommendations for police

After the inquiry, the Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit provided recommendations to ensure that appropriate policies, procedures, and training are implemented, according to a statement.

Four of the policy recommendations for the police department:

Amend its taser use policy and training to account for the heightened risk when a targeted individual is reasonably believed to be under the influence of drugs.

Amend its use of force policy and procedure to develop a mandatory investigation protocol whenever a death in custody occurs in connection with, or immediately after, an officer’s use of force.

Take steps to ensure that Greenburgh police officers follow the department’s existing policy with regard to the use of body-worn cameras.

Clarify its protocols for timely and respectfully notifying family members of the death of someone in police custody.

On the usage of the Taser, the report points out that the officer who employed the device did so only moments after arriving on the scene.

The report goes on to say that he employed the electronic control weapon without first determining whether Maldonado could be subdued through the three officers’ use of physical force alone, and without using the Taser.

Greenburgh Police Chief Brian Ryan said in a statement that the department will review the findings of the New York State Attorney General's Office.

"Any recommendations put forth by the office of the attorney general shall be reviewed by command staff for future implementation as necessary, " Ryan said.

Want to see more Yonkers content? Join our lohud Yonkers Facebook page.

Twitter: @T_Cusaac

More News

Nita Lowey retirement: Primary challenge was 'absolutely irrelevant'; why she's not seeking reelection

Hudson Valley Restaurant Week fall 2019 restaurants announced

Swastikas found at Pleasantville High School