POLICE Department

Investigation into Man's Death at 3300 Omega

December 5, 2017 - Houston police are investigating the death of a man that occurred at 3300 Omega about 3:30 a.m. today.



The man's identity is pending notification to family members by the Harris County Institute of Forensic Sciences.



HPD Homicide Division Sergeant H. Chavez, Senior Police Officer R. Delarosa and Officer O. Garcia-Chavez reported:



On Monday (Dec. 4), the male was involved in a vehicle pursuit in a stolen U-Haul van with Harris County Precinct 1 Deputy Constables. HPD units joined the pursuit when the vehicle came into HPD's jurisdiction. A female acquaintance was with the male in the vehicle when the pursuit was initiated.



The pursuit ultimately ended in the 3200 block of Omega St. and HPD officers conducted a felony traffic stop. While on the felony stop, the male opened the driver's door of the van and threatened to kill the female who was with him. The male then forced the female out of the van and led her through a vacant lot to Hinton St., (one block east of Omega St.). At that time, he was holding a handgun to the female.



As the officers pursued him onto Hinton St., the male fired a gunshot to prevent officers from following him. The male and the female ultimately ended up in a residential vacant lot in the northeast corner of E. 33rd and Omega St. where they entered a red Honda CRX parked there. The male then barricaded himself inside the vehicle with the female, and the Special Weapons and Tactics Team (SWAT) and the Hostage Negotiation Team (HNT) were called to the scene.



After several hours of negotiations, the male released the female hostage and SWAT officers were able to deploy a canister of gas into the vehicle. Shortly after that, a gunshot was heard from inside the vehicle. After the gunshot, SWAT officers approached the vehicle and found the male had fatally shot himself.



As is customary when an individual dies in the presence of an HPD officer, this incident is being investigated by the HPD Special Investigations Unit and the Internal Affairs Division.

