An Adams County sheriff’s deputy who fatally shot a 19-year-old man after a brief struggle at an apartment complex in December has been cleared of criminal charges in the case.

On the early morning of Dec. 7, Deputy Wilfred Europe, in uniform and on patrol assignment, fatally shot Kyler Grabbingbear at 8770 Gaylen Court, according to a review of the shooting by district attorney’s investigators.

Europe was at the apartment at 3:30 a.m. to notify a resident, a domestic violence victim, that the suspect in her case had been released from jail. While at the complex, Europe heard “yelling, screaming and banging” coming from an adjacent apartment.

Inside the apartment, Grabbingbear, who was despondent about a breakup with a former girlfriend, was arguing with her and her family members, according to witness statements in the review. The girlfriend and family were telling Grabbingbear to leave the apartment, and he was resisting and was argumentative.

Europe suspected domestic violence was unfolding inside. Europe got on his radio and called for backup. A moment later, Grabbingbear left the apartment carrying an end table.

Europe, standing in front of Grabbingbear, ordered him to stop. Grabbingbear bent down, as if to set down the table, and suddenly “shoved” the table into Europe’s legs, according to the review. Grabbingbear ran down a flight of stairs, and Europe ran after him.

At an exterior door, Europe caught up to Grabbingbear, and they briefly tangled. Grabbingbear got through the door, and Europe chased him outside, tackling Grabbingbear in an area between two buildings. They wrestled, and Grabbingbear got Europe in a headlock, chocking him, according to the review.

Europe told investigators that he became “dizzy and light-headed” and he felt “indefensible” as Grabbingbear was “trying to kill” him. Europe broke the “stranglehold,” pushed away and drew his gun, firing one shot from about 2 feet away, he told investigators.

Grabbingbear “stumbled to his knees,” Europe backed off and “held the male at gunpoint.” Deputy Corey Engle arrived, and Europe told him to handcuff Grabbingbear for safety. A Thornton police officer also arrived and began “resuscitative efforts” on Grabbingbear.

An autopsy found that Grabbingbear was shot once, in the front, and the bullet penetrated front to back, left to right and downward, puncturing both lungs. A toxicology report found that Grabbingbear had amphetamines, methamphetamine and THC in his system at the time of his death.

“At the time of the shooting, Deputy Europe was engaged in the course of his duties as a law enforcement officer seeking to apprehend a fleeing suspect who just assaulted him with an end table and who Deputy Europe believed to be involved in a domestic disturbance,” the review, signed by District Attorney Dave Young, said. “Our Colorado Supreme Court has made clear that an officer may use an amount of force that is reasonable and necessary to ensure their safety during the period of lawful detention.

“Further, there is no evidence to dispute that Deputy Europe fired his weapon at Mr. Grabbingbear because he reasonably believed it was necessary to defend himself from what he perceived to be the imminent use of deadly force by Mr. Grabbingbear.”