TAMARAC, Fla. – A family from Connecticut is raising money through a GoFundMe page to bring a woman's body back home after she was fatally shot in Tamarac.

Broward Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Joy Oglesby said deputies responded to a call just before 1 p.m. Thursday about a man barricaded inside a home at 5850 NW 57th Ave.

Oglesby said SWAT was called out and eventually team members forced their way into the home, where they found two people dead.

The couple were identified as Paige Spencer, 27, and Pierre, Lacroze, 36. They were both pronounced dead at the scene.

Authorities have not released further details about the shooting, but Spencer's sister told Local10.com that Spencer was dating Lacroze, who had fatally shot the woman before taking his own life.

Spencer's mother has since created a GoFundMe page to help pay to bring her daughter's body back to her hometown in Connecticut, where Spencer's mother still lives.

"It is a parents worse nightmare to have to bury their child this young and unexpectedly, especially right around the holidays," Lisa Spencer wrote on the page. "I have no way of getting to her and I am now struggling with this tragedy of how I've lost my daughter. I am also struggling with the financial burden of the funeral costs, including shipping her body back to Connecticut, where I want her to be."

Lisa Spencer described her daughter as "beautiful, selfless, outspoken, with a big heart and a culinary genius."

"I had always told her she should use her talents to open up a restaurant or work as a celebrity chef," she said. "If you needed anything, Paige would be the kind of person to give you the shirt off her back. Without thinking twice, she was always there for you when you needed her.

My daughter always told me she would take care of me when I got older. Therefore, I can only make the same promise of doing the same for her."

Lisa Spencer said any donated money that is left over after the funeral will be donated to a domestic violence charity in honor of her daughter and others who have been a victim of physical or mental abuse.

Deputies said the death investigation remains ongoing. Anyone with information is asked to call Homicide Detective Kevin Nitsch at 954-321-4876 or Broward Crime Stoppers at 954-493-TIPS.