Update:

The following is a press release from the Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office:

The Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office located Kason Crutchfield deceased this afternoon near the 100 block of Mountain View Lane in Willow Creek.

The 27-year-old fled a residence in that area on Dec. 7, 2017 following a domestic dispute.

From Thursday 5:36 p.m.:

Press release from the Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office:

The Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office is currently searching for a Willow Creek man believed to be armed.

Sheriff’s deputies were dispatched to the 100 block of Mountain View Ln. in Willow Creek around 2:54 p.m. Thursday for a welfare check following a 911 open line call. When deputies arrived on scene, they found a domestic dispute developing between the female victim and 27-year-old Kason Crutchfield. The victim was able to safely leave the residence. A gunshot was then reportedly heard coming from inside. Crutchfield fled the residence out of a back door.

The Arcata Police Department K9 unit and a CHP helicopter are on scene assisting deputies.

Crutchfield is described as an American Indian male, approximately 5’7” tall, 230 pounds, with brown/black hair and hazel eyes. He was last seen wearing shorts and no shirt.

Willow Creek residents are advised to stay inside while deputies search for Crutchfield.

Anyone with information on Crutchfield’s location is asked to call the Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office at (707) 445-7251.

From Thursday 5:08 p.m.:

Willow Creek residents are being advised to stay in their homes as Humboldt County Sheriff’s Office investigators search for a man who is believed to be armed, according to sheriff’s office Public Information Officer Samantha Karges this afternoon.

Karges said they are not releasing the identity of the man at this time, but said the incident began after they received a 911 call from an open line at about 3 p.m. Thursday.

Sheriff’s office investigators arrived at a residence on the 100 block of Mountain View Lane in Willow Creek where a domestic dispute between a man and woman was taking place, Karges said.

“The female came out of the house safely,” Karges said. “She’s unharmed. The male, we have reason to believe he’s armed and so we are responding. He fled out of the back door of the residence so we are actively searching for him.”

Karges said the man fled from the residents at about 4:10 p.m.

Karges said a K-9 unit from the Arcata Police Department and a California Highway Patrol helicopter are assisting in the search.

“We’re glad they we’re able to go and do welfare checks on 911 open lines and double check just in case something is happening,” Karges said.

Will Houston can be reached at 707-441-0504.