Gunfire rousted neighbors from their beds early Friday as police shot and killed a man they said shot first on Redding’s east side.

Redding police officers said they encountered the man while investigating a domestic disturbance call reported just after 2 a.m. on Wilson Avenue, just off Shasta View Drive and south of Highway 44.

The man, police said, fired a handgun at an officer before the officer returned fire, killing him.

MORE: Driver in post-Christmas parade crash no stranger to police

No one else was injured by gunfire, police said. Bullets, though, may have hit the tires of a Toyota pickup parked at the apartment complex where the dead man's body remained well into Friday morning surrounded by an orange-colored barrier.

Three Redding police officers are on paid administrative leave after the shooting, which is being investigated by the Shasta County Sheriff's Office, police said.

The Shasta County Sheriff's Office identified the dead man as 22-year-old Vernchoy Saechao.

Sheriff's investigators said police officers went to the single-story apartment building after a woman reported she was slapped by Saechao.

When officers arrived, investigators said, they met her in the parking area near the four-plex apartments. She said Saechao was believed to be inside the residence, had been drinking throughout the evening and was stabbing the walls with a knife. She said there were other family members in the house, including three children ages 3, 5 and 8.

Two officers entered the apartment as one officer remained outside the front door, investigators said. As the two officers were inside trying to find Saechao, investigators said, they heard noises behind them coming from the area of a sliding door that leads to an enclosed porch near the front door.

The officer outside alerted the two officers inside that a person believed to be Saechao was running away. As he ran away, investigators said, he fired "multiple" rounds at the officer near the front of the unit.

The officer who had remained outside returned fire, striking Saechao as he was in the parking lot of the complex.

Officers began CPR on Saechao as emergency medical personnel were called to the scene, investigators said. The medical personnel also performed life-saving efforts on Saechao when they arrived, but he was pronounced dead.

During the initial crime scene investigation, a Glock 22, .40-caliber handgun was found next to Saechao. The magazine inside the Glock 22 was a high-capacity magazine capable of holding 22 rounds, investigators said, adding two additional high-capacity magazines capable of holding 15 rounds each were found with Saechao.

Police found expended shell casings near Saechao similar to the live rounds found in the Glock 22 handgun.

An autopsy is scheduled for Dec. 19,

The gunfire woke Abrea Durant, 41, who lives nearby. She said she heard "a bunch of shots" in the early morning hours. The shooting was the first incident of violence in Durant’s eight years in the neighborhood, she said.

Twinkling and lighted Christmas trees could be seen through the front windows of homes as neighbors, some dressed in bathrobes and slippers, looked out from their front porches and living room windows.

MORE: Suspected DUI driver intentionally drove off road, police say

Robert Dugger, 56, also lives nearby. He said his adult son was outside charging a car battery when the shooting happened and heard what sounded like a series of fireworks exploding.

"He said he heard a succession of pops and then a pa-pow, which were the final shot, you might say, " he said.

Dugger said his son told him he saw a body in the parking lot of an apartment complex across the street swarmed by police in the hours after the shooting Friday morning.

MORE:UPDATE: Police locate missing 83-year-old man

"There were cop cars clear up to the end of the street," he said.

Dugger said he's lived in the neighborhood for about three decades, during which time there have been three shootings, the explosion of a methamphetamine lab and a SWAT team raid of a suspected drug house.

Aside from those incidents, the neighborhood is a fairly peaceful place, Dugger said.

Angela Jones, executive director of One SAFE Place, said Friday that long-held beliefs that domestic violence spikes over the holidays due to the stress surrounding them are a myth.

"They try to hold it together until after the holidays are over," she said about at-risk families.

But, she said, the danger is always there.

"Domestic violence abusers can very dangerous," she said.

Those with any information about the incident are asked to contact the Shasta County Sheriff’s Office, Major Crimes Unit at 245-6135 or mcu@co.shasta.ca.us