TUCSON, AZ (Tucson News Now) - Authorities have identified the man who died in an officer-involved shooting on Tucson's east side Thursday night.

Arizona DPS said Frederick Douglas Wilburn Jr., 34, was shot after he tried to run over two detectives.

The detectives were driving in the area of Beverly Avenue and Speedway Boulevard when they saw the man driving recklessly in the area around 7:41 p.m. Thursday, according to Raul Garcia, a public information officer with the Arizona Department of Public Safety (DPS).

When the DPS detectives tried to pull Wilburn over, Garcia said he "failed to obey" their order and kept driving, eventually traveling toward the back of the business in the 5200 block East Speedway Boulevard. The detectives, who were both in the same vehicle, followed Wilburn's car.

Garcia said Wilburn turned the car around, facing head on with the detectives' car and stopped. The detectives got out of their vehicle and approached the suspect.

When the detectives got closer, Wilburn stepped on the gas and accelerated toward the detectives. One of the detectives fired his gun "more than once" because he "feared for his safety," according to Garcia.

The car quickly veered away, hit a fence, and the tires continued to rotate and started a small fire, Garcia said. Tucson firefighters responded to the scene to help put out the small flames.

Wilburn was reportedly killed by the gunshots, and not during the crash or small fire that occurred.

The detectives involved have not been named and they were uninjured. Garcia explained that they were on assignment for another criminal investigation in the area when they spotted the vehicle driving recklessly.

WATCH: We're getting updates after an officer-involved shooting on Tucson's east side. Arizona Department of Public Safety talks about the latest details of the investigation >> bit.ly/2BfqtF0 Posted by KOLD News 13 on Thursday, December 7, 2017

MOBILE USERS: Download our Tucson News Now app for Apple and Android devices.

Copyright 2017 Tucson News Now. All rights reserved.