After less than 10 minutes of deliberation, a jury at a coroner's inquest determined that the fatal, officer-involved shooting of Stacy Micheletti was justified.

Great Falls police shot and killed Micheletti on Dec. 11, 2017. after a confrontation near 52nd Street and 10th Avenue North. Authorities had sought Micheletti after reports of a suspicious man hiding in the bushes and pointing a gun at people near several schools .

His ex-wife had also called police earlier that day to report he was acting delusional and showing signs of drug use.

SHOOTING:Coroner releases name of suspect fatally shot by Great Falls police

MULTIPLE OFFICERS INVOLVED:Great Falls police fatally shoot male suspect Monday

A video of the shooting taken from the dashcam of one of the responding officers' police cars shows Micheletti back away from the police in front of him, then pull what appeared to be a pistol from his waistband and raise it toward officers before he was shot.

The officers shot 15 times, striking him in the head, chest and knee. He appeared to have died on scene, one officer testified. He was pronounced dead at Benefis Health System.

Division of Criminal Investigation Agent Mark Hilyard testified at the inquiry that he believed the incident was "suicide by cop," considering an officer responded to a call months earlier in which Micheletti had taken a large number of Oxycodone pills and written a suicide note to police. Additionally, he had driven a vehicle off the road about a year earlier, Hilyard said, which could have been another suicide attempt.

"I'd say this is like deja vu," Hilyard said. "I've had a lot of cases that were suicide by cop. I think this was one of them."

Hilyard also testified that a small paper "bindle" of methamphetamine was found on Micheletti's body after he was shot, and four baggies were found in possession of the woman who drove him to his car where police were waiting for him.

Four Great Falls police officers were waiting at Micheletti's car near the corner of 52nd Street and 10th Avenue North trying to form a plan of arrest when a black vehicle pulled up to drop Micheletti off, Sgt. Rob Beall said.

"In this particular incident, I was worried because over the past few hours his behavior had escalated," Beall said.

The first call from Micheletti's ex-wife came around 4:30 a.m. on Dec. 11, when she called 9-1-1 to report he was not making sense. Police spoke with Micheletti about an hour later and he denied suffering from delusions and declined any medical help.

About five fours later, Micheletti was spotted by a homeowner and some construction workers near Morningside Elementary school, and he reportedly pointed a handgun, later discovered by police to be a pellet gun, at people before dropping a backpack and fleeing the area.

Police located Micheletti's white Ford Mustang with a blue racing stripe around 10 a.m. The four who responded were watching the vehicle, waiting for a detective to arrive and take over surveillance when a black Chrysler pulled up and dropped Micheletti off.

As police rushed to the car and yelled commands to get on the ground, Micheletti reached in his waistband and removed the pellet gun, which resembles a real gun, and looked back and forth to officers in front of him and to his right side.

"It was a very, very short amount of time after that, a second or two probably, that he raised that gun in our direction," Beall said. "Just before this he was glancing back and forth. What it looked to me like what he was doing was picking his target."

Robert Kurtzman, the state's chief medical examiner, testified that two of the shots that hit Micheletti were fatal, and methamphetamine was found in his system.

Some officers didn't come to know it was a pellet gun until later that day or the next day, while others didn't find out until much later.

One juror asked if police had any access to information regarding whether or not Micheletti suffered from any mental health issues. Although they had access to his probation and parole records, they were unaware of any mental health issues and did not immediately connect him to a suicide attempt months earlier.

Officer Zaine O'Meara, who was involved in the December shooting, also responded to that suicide attempt and helped pull a large Zip Tie from his neck while they waited for medical responders to arrive.

O'Meara said he responds to between 10 and 15 calls a day and didn't immediately recognize Micheleti from the earlier call.

Hilyard said the dashcam video helped him determine there was nothing out of place between the officers' reports and the evidence he found at the scene.

"You don't get the video every time," he said. "But in this one the video and the evidence matched up."

The jury's conclusion was unanimous.