Police have identified a man who died after an officer-involved shooting in southeast Oklahoma City Sunday evening.Capt. Bo Matthews, with the Oklahoma City Police Department, said the incident began with an officer responding to a call about a man lying in the grass on the side of Southeast 59th Street and Mackleman Drive. Matthews said the man, later identified as 28-year-old Kyle Anthony Mihecoby, was not cooperating with the officer, Bethany Sears, so the officer used pepper spray on him, who then punched her in the face. An altercation ensued, Matthews said, and the officer used a Taser on the man. According to Matthews, the man was able to take the Taser away from the officer ;and attempted to use it on her. At that point, the officer fired her weapon, Matthews said. Mihecoby died at the scene, according to Matthews. The officer was taken to the hospital and is being treated for injuries to her face and hands.On Sunday night, Matthews said the scene of the incident could be blocked off into the morning hours. Sears has been with the police department for two years.

Police have identified a man who died after an officer-involved shooting in southeast Oklahoma City Sunday evening .

Capt. Bo Matthews, with the Oklahoma City Police Department, said the incident began with an officer responding to a call about a man lying in the grass on the side of Southeast 59th Street and Mackleman Drive.

Advertisement Related Content Officer undergoes surgery after struggle leading up to fatal metro officer-involved shooting

Matthews said the man, later identified as 28-year-old Kyle Anthony Mihecoby, was not cooperating with the officer, Bethany Sears, so the officer used pepper spray on him, who then punched her in the face.

An altercation ensued, Matthews said, and the officer used a Taser on the man. According to Matthews, the man was able to take the Taser away from the officer ;and attempted to use it on her. At that point, the officer fired her weapon, Matthews said.

Mihecoby died at the scene, according to Matthews. The officer was taken to the hospital and is being treated for injuries to her face and hands.

On Sunday night, Matthews said the scene of the incident could be blocked off into the morning hours.



Sears has been with the police department for two years.

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.