Two area women and an Aurora man were killed in three separate single-vehicle accidents over the weekend in Kane County.

The man died Sunday night on Aurora's southeast side soon after police cars broke off a chase involving his vehicle, authorities said.

Advertisement

The 1994 Ford Probe driven by Jose A. Contreras-Mijares, 21, of the 500 block of Palace Street struck a utility pole, two trees and a metal fence about 7:09 p.m., police said. He was pronounced dead on arrival in Mercy Center hospital in Aurora.

Police said they first spotted Contreras-Mijares' car near Claim and Ohio Streets a few minutes before the accident when it went through a stop sign. He then began speeding, ignored two other stop signs and turned off his headlights while driving, they said.

Advertisement

Officers stopped chasing him after about 26 seconds when they lost sight of the vehicle, police said.

Another officer then spotted Contreras-Mijares speeding with his lights off near Coolidge and Farnsworth Avenues. The officer began pursuit but terminated the chase after 28 seconds when the car ignored a stop sign at Liberty and Ohio Streets, police said.

Six seconds later, the officer saw flames and sparks ahead of him and found Contreras-Mijares' car in a front yard in the 700 block of Liberty. The engine had fallen out and struck another car, setting it on fire.

Police said Contreras-Mijares was wanted on an Aurora police arrest warrant for disobeying a stop sign in 2001.

All officers complied with Aurora police general orders governing pursuits, police said. But the incident will be turned over to the Office of Professional Standards for routine review.

The separate accidents Saturday morning in which the two women died occurred within a few miles of each other in Pingree Grove, in north-central Kane, according to Coroner Charles West, whose office is investigating the causes of both deaths.

In the first accident, Cynthia Griffin, 37, of Kirkland apparently died of blunt chest trauma after the PT Cruiser she was driving skidded out of control and struck a tree on the north side of U.S. Highway 20, about a half-mile east of Illinois Highway 47, authorities said. Sheriff's investigators said Griffin was pronounced dead at the scene at about 4 a.m. Saturday.

Kelly Brockner, 32, of South Elgin apparently died of multiple head injuries about 10 a.m. Saturday after she was thrown from the Pontiac Sunbird she was driving on Coombs Road, according to investigators.

Advertisement

They said Brockner's vehicle left the roadway and rolled over.