SEATTLE — The Seattle Police Department has released body camera video that shows the moments leading up to the fatal shooting of a robbery suspect by officers in a popular park.

A woman was taken into custody. The shooting stemmed from a string of incidents that happened after a reported robbery at Forever 21 in the Northgate Mall about 10 p.m. Monday.

Scroll down to read more

Trending headlines

DOWNLOAD OUR FREE NEWS APP

Shoplifting suspects flee to apartment complex

Police said the two were shoplifting, and when a store manager confronted the couple, the man displayed a handgun, causing the manager to back away.

The man and woman then fled to an apartment complex near the mall. When the apartment manager saw what he thought was a suspicious car in the parking lot, he went to investigate.

Smartphone video shows the exchange between the apartment manager and the suspects. The suspects shouted profanities at the manager, who asked them to move their cars.

As the suspects finally walked away, the man fired his gun into the ground toward the manager. The manager reported the incident to police as the couple drove away in an Audi.

Police chase ensues, ends at Magnuson Park

The gunman then drove off and the woman contacted police sometime after leaving the apartment complex. They found her at Holman Road and took her into custody.

%

INLINE

%

When officers noticed the man watching her at Holman Road, a car chase began with Seattle police.

During the pursuit, the man fired multiple gunshots at officers in the 100 block of Northeast 80th Street. No officers were hurt.

The pursuit continued as the driver entered Magnuson Park and came to a stop near the boat ramp. Body camera video [graphic warning at 3:55] shows the suspect ran from his car and into tall grass in the park.

Police yell “put your hands up … You’re going to get shot … Don’t reach.” But the man started reaching toward his pocket, apparently brandishing a handgun.

Officers opened fire.

The man was taken to Harborview Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.

Cox Media Group