A man who shot and killed a business associate and wounded the victim’s wife in their home on Staten Island on Tuesday was fatally shot by the police after he pointed a gun at responding officers and refused orders to drop his weapon, the police said.

The shooting took place inside 115 Collyer Avenue in Annadale, the police said.

Investigators on Tuesday evening were still piecing together what happened, but they identified the assailant whom the police killed as Ilya Iglanov, 48.

About 12:30 p.m., Mr. Iglanov knocked on the door of the two-story house belonging to Semyom Levin, 52, and his wife, Marina Tartakouskaya, 45, and was allowed inside, said Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman. In the kitchen area, Mr. Iglanov, wielding a .25-caliber semiautomatic handgun, shot Ms. Tartakouskaya in her stomach and then shot Mr. Levin in his head, Mr. Browne said.

Ms. Tartakouskaya and a maid ran out a side door and asked a couple who were outside walking their dog to call the police. Mr. Iglanov followed and put his gun to the man’s head and pulled the trigger, but “his gun jammed,” Mr. Browne said. The gunman then ran back inside.

Mr. Browne said that Mr. Iglanov and Mr. Levin were associates in a manufacturing business to develop military-grade flashlights, and that family members said Mr. Iglanov had been distraught and depressed because he believed Mr. Levin had cheated him out of money invested in a patented design for the flashlights.

Officers who responded to the call for help saw Mr. Iglanov in a bedroom closet in the basement with the gun pointed to his head, “pulling the trigger several times to no effect,” Mr. Browne said. The officers retreated and radioed for backup from the Emergency Service Unit when they heard a shot fired from within the closet, Mr. Browne said.

Meanwhile, Mr. Levin was taken to Staten Island University Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. His wife was in stable condition there Tuesday night, Mr. Browne said.

Mr. Browne said that when the Emergency Service Unit officers entered the home, moments later, they found Mr. Iglanov conscious, squatting inside the closet. They ordered him to raise his hands, but he raised his left hand with the gun in it and pointed it at the first officer he saw, Mr. Browne said.

“He refused repeated commands to drop the gun,” he said.

A 37-year-old officer, who has 14 years on the force and whose name the police would not release, fired seven shots, hitting Mr. Iglanov an unknown number of times, Mr. Browne said.