This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (Aug. 17, 2015)– One person is dead following a police-action shooting Monday night that stemmed from an armed robbery on the north side of Indianapolis.

The Marion County Coroner’s Office identified the man as 21-year-old Michael Henderson. An IMPD source told FOX59 Henderson died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department’s Commercial Robbery Task Force and the FBI Safe Streets Task Force were conducting a joint investigation into a series of armed robberies involving a pair of armed suspects. In several of those robberies the suspects used guns and shots were reportedly fired. Around 9:15 p.m. Monday, officers arrived at a Hardee’s located in the 4900 block of East 56th Street in response to an armed robbery in progress.

The suspects left the scene and ended up at Marcy Village Apartments in the 4500 block of Marcy Lane, near 46th Street. Officers located the suspects’ car. Police reported hearing gunshots coming from the car as they approached. Investigators said one of the suspects got out of the car when ordered while Henderson, the driver, stayed inside, prompting the shooting.

“Let me just say this to you, this is hard for us because we didn’t anticipate dealing with individuals who refused to surrender,” said IMPD Chief Rick Hite. “But this is in fact our reality here. These areas we talk about are violent, these offenders are very violent and are resistant to law enforcement communication.”

Since both law enforcement officers and the suspect fired shots, investigators said they won’t know which bullets killed Henderson until an autopsy is performed. However, a source said it was likely he died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The second suspect is in police custody. IMPD said no officers were hurt during the incident.

FOX59 spoke with Henderson’s mother Tuesday morning, who said she is desperate for answers. She said her son had a troubled past but he was working to get his life together.

39.838695 -86.135258