The Effingham County Sheriff's Office has identified the woman killed in Tuesday night's deputy-involved shooting in Rincon.Deputies say they responded to the call of a woman threatening suicide. They say when they arrived at the home on Paddleford Drive, they found 50-year-old Marcia Aiken with a gun.Aiken was shot and killed by an Effingham County deputy. The deputy has been identified as Corporal Matt Peatra. He is on administrative leave, per department policy."Deputies are going to react like they train, so if they’re trained to handle a situation a certain way, that’s when their muscle memory is going to kick in and they’re going to react the way they’re trained. That’s why we train so often," said Gena Bilbo of the Effingham County Sheriff’s Office.A neighbor who knew Aiken said he was shocked to hear the news. He arrived home from work Tuesday night to see investigators up and down his block.He said Aiken leaves behind three kids.The GBI has taken over the investigation.

The Effingham County Sheriff's Office has identified the woman killed in Tuesday night's deputy-involved shooting in Rincon.

Deputies say they responded to the call of a woman threatening suicide. They say when they arrived at the home on Paddleford Drive, they found 50-year-old Marcia Aiken with a gun.

Advertisement

Aiken was shot and killed by an Effingham County deputy. The deputy has been identified as Corporal Matt Peatra. He is on administrative leave, per department policy.

"Deputies are going to react like they train, so if they’re trained to handle a situation a certain way, that’s when their muscle memory is going to kick in and they’re going to react the way they’re trained. That’s why we train so often," said Gena Bilbo of the Effingham County Sheriff’s Office.

A neighbor who knew Aiken said he was shocked to hear the news. He arrived home from work Tuesday night to see investigators up and down his block.

He said Aiken leaves behind three kids.

The GBI has taken over the investigation.