The fatal shooting of a bank robbery suspect occurred after the man rammed police vehicles with his car and displayed a gun, a Yonkers police spokesman said Thursday.

The total number of shooters has been in question, but the spokesman said two Yonkers police officers fired at the suspect and the FBI has said that one of its agents was also involved in the shooting.

SLAIN SUSPECT: Heists were just weeks after suspect paroled

Erick Campbell was killed Dec. 15 near Van Cortlandt Park after getting into a car that authorities had been watching because it was believed to have been used in a Greenburgh bank robbery earlier this month.

When police approached the car, Campbell began to drive off and hit multiple cars as they tried to box him in.

"Preliminary investigation indicates that while ramming the law enforcement vehicles Campbell also displayed a weapon, at which point multiple law enforcement officers discharged their duty weapons," Yonkers police Sgt. Dean Politopoulos wrote in an email.

Politopoulos would not identify the two Yonkers officers who fired. They had been working with the FBI Westchester Safe Streets Task Force on the surveillance. He would also not say whether a gun was recovered from the car.

He referred all questions to the FBI, which is investigating the shooting.

The only previous public statement about the shooting came Friday night when the FBI said in a Twitter post that one of its agents and a Yonkers police officer were involved in a shooting incident while conducting law enforcement activity.

An FBI spokeswoman did not immediately respond to questions but in recent days has declined to comment on the case.

The New York Attorney General's Office has the authority to prosecute police-involved fatal shootings under an executive order signed by Gov. Andrew Cuomo two years ago. But the order does not cover cases in which the victim is armed or if a federal officer is the shooter. A spokeswoman said the Attorney General's Office would not be taking the case.

Authorities believe Campbell was the masked, armed robber who made off with cash in a pair of heists at Chase Bank branches in Tarrytown on Nov. 13 and in Greenburgh on Dec. 7.

The car used in the Tarrytown robbery was discovered near McLean Avenue in Yonkers. Then a red Oldsmobile suspected as the getaway car in the Greenburgh heist was found parked at Aqueduct and Delano avenues.

Campbell had been living at a White Plains homeless shelter near where the Oldsmobile was stolen. It was unknown what his connection was to the Yonkers neighborhood where the cars were found.

The first robbery came less than six weeks after Campbell, 48, was released from state prison on parole. He had spent nearly all of the previous 30 years in prison for felony convictions in and around New York City.

After serving five years for a 1988 Brooklyn manslaughter conviction, Campbell was arrested for armed robbery in Nassau County in 1993. He was convicted and sentenced to 10 to 20 years and was paroled in February 2010

In May that year, Campbell was speeding on the Brooklyn Queens Expressway in Queens when police tried to pull him over. Instead of stopping, Campbell rammed the police car. He was charged with aggravated assault on a police officer and pleaded guilty to second-degree attempted assault the following year.

His sentence was one to three years but because it violated his parole he owed additional time from the robbery case and he was not released again until just two months ago.

Twitter: @jonbandler