GEDDES, N.Y. -- A man who was trying to elude police died Thursday morning after he was hit by a tractor-trailer on Interstate 690 in Geddes, deputies said.

The 22-year-old East Syracuse man was hit and fatally injured by the tractor-trailer on I-690 east near the Route 695 interchange, said Sgt. Jon Seeber, an Onondaga County Sheriff's Office spokesman. The name of the man killed was not immediately released.

The crash happened after a police chase of a car that started in Skaneateles and ended about 17 miles away in Geddes.

At 12:21 a.m. Thursday, a Skaneateles police officer tried to stop a car on East Genesee Street in the village, Seeber said. The car -- a dark-colored Honda sedan occupied by two males -- had "several" equipment violations, he said.

The driver initially pulled over, Seeber said. But when the police officer approached the car, the driver sped away, he said.

The Skaneateles officer gave chase with his vehicle, following the car as it drove north on Route 321 toward Camillus, Seeber said.

When the car reached the Route 5 intersection after a more than 8-mile pursuit, the passenger jumped out of the car and ran into the woods, Seeber said. The car drove away, heading north on Bennetts Corners Road, he said.

The officer stopped pursuing the car and started looking for the fleeing passenger, Seeber said. Deputies, a K-9 and the department's Air 1 helicopter joined the search.

Using night vision goggles and an infrared camera, Seeber said the Air 1 flight crew found the suspect hiding behind Motel Thomas, 2100 W. Genesee Turnpike. Air 1 put a spotlight on the suspect, and deputies responded to the motel and took the passenger -- a 16-year-old Elbridge boy -- into custody, he said.

Shortly after, a deputy spotted the car the police had been pursuing.

The deputy was driving west on Route 5 near Newport Road when the eastbound Honda sped by, Seeber said. While trying to catch up to the driver, the deputy found the car broken down and abandoned on Route 695 north near the I-690 east on-ramp, he said.

Deputies were searching the area for the driver when they noticed a tractor-trailer on the side of the highway.

After dumping his car, the man was hit by a tractor-trailer, Seeber said.

The Lakeside Fire Department and the Greater Baldwinsville Ambulance Corps were dispatched to the crash at 12:53 a.m. Paramedics pronounced the man dead at the scene of the crash.

The tractor-trailer driver, who is from Orange County, was not injured.

I-690 east was closed for hours while the sheriff's Accident Investigation Team reconstructed the crash. The highway reopened about 5:30 a.m.

Deputies are continuing to investigate.

The Elbridge teenager who was riding in the car is cooperating with Skaneateles police, Seeber said.