The SBI has released the name of the man shot by an off-duty police officer in Greenville. He is identified as David Melton, 35, of Goldsboro.

The Greenville Police Department says Officer Timothy Greene was shopping at Academy Sports in Greenville when a person told him a man was allegedly shoplifting.

GPD says Greene confronted Melton outside the store, identified himself and showed his credentials. At that point, investigators say a struggle ensued and the man tried to attack the off-duty officer with a knife.

The department says Greene drew his firearm to defend himself and shot Melton in close proximity, and he died at the scene.

Greene is assigned to GPD's Neighborhood Patrol Unit and has been with the police department for 10 years.

Per protocol for an officer-involved shooting, Greene has been placed on administrative leave with pay pending the outcome of the investigation.

The SBI has been brought in to conduct an independent investigation the shooting, which GPD says is also protocol when a shooting involves an officer.

Previous Story

The Greenville Police Department is releasing the name of the off-duty police officer who they say shot and killed a suspected shoplifter Tuesday following a struggle.

The department says Officer Timothy Greene was shopping at Academy Sports in Greenville when a person told him a man was allegedly shoplifting.

GPD says Greene confronted the 35-year-old man outside the store, identified himself and showed his credentials. At that point, investigators say a struggle ensued and the man tried to attack the off-duty officer with a knife.

The department says Greene drew his firearm to defend himself and shot the 35-year-old suspect in close proximity, who died at the scene.

Greene is assigned to GPD's Neighborhood Patrol Unit and has been with the police department for 10 years.

Per protocol for an officer-involved shooting, Greene has been placed on administrative leave with pay pending the outcome of the investigation.

The SBI has been brought in to conduct an independent investigation the shooting, which GPD says is also protocol when a shooting involves an officer.

The name of the dead man has yet to be released by the SBI.

Previous Story

Greenville police say an off-duty police officer shot and killed a suspected shoplifter outside a sporting goods store.

It happened around 3:30 p.m. in front of Academy Sports on Memorial Drive.

Police say their officer was shopping at the store when a person told him a man was allegedly shoplifting.

The officer confronted the 35-year-old man, identified himself and displayed his credentials. Police say at this point a struggle began and the man tried to attack the officer with a knife.

The officer was able to draw his weapon and shot the suspect who died at the scene, according to police.

The SBI has been called in to investigate the shooting.

“We are still gathering information about what happened and are cooperating with authorities as they investigate,” said an Academy Sports spokeswoman in a statement to WITN.

Names of the officer and the suspect have not yet been released.

The city issued the following statement late Tuesday afternoon:

"The incident that occurred today at Academy Sports is a tragedy for all involved. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the many people affected. The City of Greenville and the Greenville Police Department will fully cooperate with the State Bureau of Investigation as they conduct their investigation.”

Previous Story

Greenville police have closed off part of the parking lot of a Greenville sporting goods store after reports of a shooting.

Greenville police have put up a crime scene tent near the main entrance to Academy Sports on Memorial Drive along with crime scene tape. Witnesses tell WITN that there appears to be a body at the scene.

A few minutes ago a police department crime scene truck arrived along with a command post vehicle.

Pitt County 911 says the original call came in around 3:45 p.m. as a shooting.

Stay with WITN-TV and WITN.com for more on this developing story.