A Farmington police officer shot and killed Frankie Anchondo after he pointed an object at the officer and started to approach the officer, according to state police.

The footage shows the officer approach the pickup truck driven by Anchondo on Riverstone Road.

Farmington Police Chief Steve Hebbe said it was important to release the video quickly for the community to see what happened.

FARMINGTON — The Farmington Police Department released video captured during the officer-involved shooting last month.

The department released the footage today from the dashboard camera of Farmington officer Brandt Warman's patrol vehicle from the night of Dec. 20.

Warman fired five shots at 35-year-old Frankie Anchondo on Riverstone Road after Anchondo exited his pickup truck and started approaching Warman with an unknown object, according to New Mexico State Police.

More:Farmington officer fired five shots in fatal December shooting

The object was later identified as an electronic cigarette.

Anchondo was pronounced dead at the scene by the New Mexico Office of the Medical Investigator.

Farmington Police Chief Steve Hebbe said any time police end up in a use of force situation, that it's important for the public to get the information on the incident as quickly as they can.

"I wanted it to get out there quickly," Hebbe said about the video.

He believes the video from the dashboard camera was the most relevant in terms of the shooting.

Farmington police coordinated with state police, the agency conducting the investigation, on the release of the video.

State police didn't believe the release of the video would hurt the investigation, Hebbe said.

Warman's body camera video and video from all the officers who were at the scene have been turned over to state police.

Two videos were released by Farmington police.

The first video is the unedited footage from the dashboard camera, which runs about two minutes and nine seconds.

A second video lasts about two minutes and 49 seconds and features graphics added by Farmington police to include information on what is taking place during the footage.

More:New Mexico State Police identify man killed by Farmington officer

It also slows down playback of the video during certain scenes including when Warman observes passenger Alicia Jackson hanging out the side of the passenger window screaming for help.

The footage starts when Warman is at the intersection of McCormick School Road and East Broadway Avenue around 6:20 p.m. on Dec. 20, when he sees Jackson hanging out of a black pickup truck traveling on East Broadway Avenue.

The footage shows Warman starting to pursue the pickup truck on East Broadway Avenue as the truck weaves in and out of traffic including driving on the shoulder of the road.

She later told investigators Anchondo had threatened to kill her.

The video's audio track starts when Warman activated emergency lights on the patrol vehicle.

As Warman continues to pursue, the camera captures the pickup truck drive through a red light at the intersection of U.S. Highway 64 and East Broadway Avenue and head eastbound on U.S. Highway 64.

The patrol vehicle follows the pickup truck onto U.S. Highway 64 and heads eastbound.

Warman then turns north onto Riverstone Road, where he advises dispatchers he found the pickup truck.

In the video, Jackson falls to the ground from the passenger side window as the truck comes to a stop.

Anchondo then exits the vehicle and points an object toward the camera as the patrol vehicle comes to a stop.

In the video, Anchondo then starts to run and continues to point an object at Warman.

The officer yells stop twice at Anchondo as Anchondo runs out of view of the dashboard camera.

Off-camera, Anchondo can be heard in the video yelling an expletive at the officer just before Warman fires five shots at him. Warman does not appear on-screen in the video.

After Warman fired his handgun, Jackson can be heard screaming and starts to walk towards Anchondo before the officer orders her to stop.

The footage ends with Warman notifying dispatchers of "shots fired" as Jackson starts to run toward Anchondo a second time.

More:UPDATE: Farmington officer shoots, kills suspect

The second video has a timer on the screen showing it was just over six seconds from the moment Anchondo exited the truck to Warman firing the last of his five rounds.

The case will be turned over to the 11th Judicial District Attorney's Office in San Juan County for review once state police complete its investigation.

Following the shooting, Warman was placed on paid administrative leave.

Farmington police spokeswoman Georgette Allen said Warman is returning to work tomorrow.

Joshua Kellogg covers crime, courts and social issues for The Daily Times. He can be reached at 505-564-4627 or via email at jkellogg@daily-times.com.