CINCINNATI (AP) — A man who tried to storm into an Ohio hospital’s psychiatric emergency room while carrying two handguns shot and wounded a security officer, fired at a police officer, missing him, and then killed himself with a self-inflicted gunshot, police said Thursday.

Cincinnati Police Chief Eliot Isaac identified the gunman in the Wednesday afternoon shooting as Isaiah Currie, 20, of Cincinnati.

Some of the drama that unfolded at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center complex was captured on surveillance video and 911 recordings.

“We have a shooter here. … I’m hiding under a desk. Hurry!” a psychiatric services employee reported during a 911 call.

Isaac said police had not yet determined Currie’s motive but noted he had a record of multiple crimes, including drug charges, resisting arrest, assault on a corrections officer, and an earlier assault on a UC Health security officer. Hamilton County court records show several recent cases, including a felonious assault charge last month for allegedly firing a rifle into a public park, wounding a man. Currie was recently released on bail, Isaac said.

Shortly after entering the building, Currie struggled with the security guard and fired shots. The guard then ran out of the building, Isaac said. Currie followed him. Video shows the man identified as Currie striding outside before apparently spotting the security officer and then running after him, firing more shots. The officer received two gunshot wounds to the torso, Isaac said. He didn’t know the officer’s condition and did not release his name.

Currie returned inside the hospital. Isaac said he had left his car keys and he returned to the emergency room lobby to retrieve them, walking at a steady pace and still holding a gun in each hand.

A Cincinnati police officer on security duty at a nearby medical building rushed into the emergency psychiatric services wing, drawing a gunshot from Currie, the chief said. The shot missed. After ducking and retreating, the officer, Bob Nelson, regrouped with other officers outside and moved in on Currie.

Currie killed himself with a single gunshot, Isaac said.

Nelson’s actions “and the action of the other responding officers was nothing less than heroic, along with the actions of the security officer,” Isaac said.

He also praised the UC Health staff, which locked down the emergency room before Currie returned.

“He was not able penetrate,” Isaac said.

He said he didn’t have details on Currie’s mental health condition. He said Currie was armed with 9mm and .22-caliber handguns, at least one of them stolen.

(Copyright (c) 2022 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.)