(

VIEWER CONTENT WARNING:

The video above was submitted by a Channel 2 news viewer who did not want to be identified. It shows home security camera video of the shooting incident, and may be disturbing to some viewers.)

UPDATE:

Just after midnight Sunday morning, police named Officer Daniel Otte as the officer who fired on Charles McBride. APD says Otte has been with the department for three years.

UPDATE:

Friday morning police identified the man shot and killed by an officer as 56-year-old Charles McBride.

A police officer shot and killed a man Wednesday night who had fired at officers from his garage near downtown Anchorage, the department said.

APD Deputy Chief Ken McCoy said at a news conference Thursday that the man, who has not been publicly identified, had threatened a neighbor and fired shots from his own handgun before he was killed.

APD Press Conference: Officer Involved Shooting - Dec. 20, 2017 At 11 a.m. Thursday, APD addresses Wednesday evening's confrontation with a suspect that left one man dead. Link to Full Story: http://bit.ly/2z9sLzJ Posted by Channel 2 News, KTUU.com on Thursday, December 21, 2017

(App users, to view APD's video press conference,

).

The man lived in public housing in Loussac Place, a 120-unit development of town-home style rentals owned by Cook Inlet Housing Authority near Chester Creek between A and C streets. Neighbors contacted there Thursday said they heard shooting but none said they knew the dead man’s name or the circumstances of his life. One neighbor said it was not unusual to hear gunshots in the area.

McCoy said the man used a handgun to break a window of his neighbor’s house on Salmonberry Place, two doors down from where he lived. The neighbor, a woman who McCoy wouldn’t identify, didn’t see how the window broke and called a maintenance worker. The maintenance worker arrived quickly and surveyed the damage with the woman, McCoy said. About 11:20 p.m., the man with the gun emerged from his garage and fired shots at the neighbor and the maintenance worker, McCoy said.

When police arrived and formed a perimeter around the scene, the man shot at them, too, McCoy said. A lone officer returned fire, hitting the man in the upper torso and killing him. By department policy, the officer has been put on paid leave and won’t be identified for three days.

McCoy said that until identities are released, he couldn’t provide any description of the man, the woman, or the police officer. But the housing project represents the new diversity of Anchorage, with immigrants from Asia and southern Europe living in the units near the scene of the shooting. One woman, in her garage at time that the man was shot by police, said she feared for her life after hearing a loud gunshot, not knowing where it came from, or where bullets were flying.

Police spokesman MJ Thim said no one else was injured.