The standoff that had a Bethlehem Township neighborhood on edge for more than nine hours ended late Friday night with a woman and a man identified as her son dead.

State Police Lt. Joseph Sokolofski of the Bethlehem barracks identified the man who barricaded himself in the home at 1543 Dennis St. as Justin Kephart, 36. Police said it was not clear if Kephart lived in the home where the standoff took place, however his driver’s license listed the address as his home, according to a police complaint.

Police said that Kephart was presumed dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. A woman who is believed to be his mother is also dead.

Bethlehem Township police officers responded to the Dennis Street address after receiving a 911 call at 1:26 p.m. of a report of a woman lying in a yard “bleeding.”

Officers were fired on as they approached the woman, according to Sokolofski.

Bethlehem city police sent an armored vehicle that was also fired on as officers tried to “extract” an officer who was pinned down.

“They were not able to render aid to the female,” said Sokolofski.

During the ensuing standoff, Kephart’s father contacted police and said his son told him that he killed “mom” and a “cop,” according to a criminal complaint prepared Friday to be filed against Kephart.

During the standoff, police obtained a search warrant for the residence and an arrest warrant for Kephart on charges of attempted homicide of a police officer.

There was no one else home at the time of standoff, according to police. The home is believed to be owned by Kephart’s grandmother, Rosemarie Meixell, according to the police complaint.

The weapon that Kephart used “appears to be a semi-automatic rifle,” according to Sokolofski.

Sokolofski said police decided to enter the home after seeing Kephart lying motionless.

The standoff, which kept some residents out of their homes late into the night, started around 1:30 p.m., with officers being fired upon on several different occasions until the standoff ended at 10:33 p.m.

When township police officers arrived they ran into a flurry of gunshots, the township police chief said.

The gunshots continued — some in rapid succession and others single shots — for at least another hour in the 1500 block of Dennis Street.

Officers still were being shot at as of 9:30 p.m., according to a message on the Bethlehem Township police Facebook page.

“Barricaded suspect continues to fire upon officers. Please continue to stay clear of the area or remain sheltered in place,” the message said.

Police closed off almost all roads in that section of the township, with some frightened neighbors gathered in clusters far from the shooting scene. The neighborhood was still in lockdown at 10:45 p.m.

“There is a person in the front yard not moving,” police Chief Dan Pancoast said about 4:30 p.m.

Pancoast said no officers were injured, but a state police armored vehicle had to be brought in to rescue an officer and a civilian who were pinned down by gunfire.

Kephart had a criminal history, including charges of simple assault and harassment which were filed in 2006. He also pleaded guilty in 2009 to several drug charges including possession with intent to manufacture or deliver and was sentenced to more than a year in jail.

In late October this year, he was ticketed by Bethlehem Township Police for having no insurance and a suspended registration. He pleaded guilty to both those offenses and made his most recent payment of $150 to the local magistrate on Wednesday.

His public Facebook profile has not been updated in more than a year, but during the manhunt for convicted cop-killer Eric Frein, he posted “Go Frein. Keep making a [explitive] of all those OINKERS.”

Also on his profile, he posted several photos of himself and others of cars, women and guns, including one that he identified as himself at 12 years old with a semi-automatic weapon slung around his neck.

“Finger on the trigger,” he posted on the photo’s caption.

A union leader confirmed that Kephart was a member of Laborors Local 1174, but would not comment further.

Jennifer Gentry, who lives about a block away from the shooting scene, said when she heard a flurry of gunshots, she came out of her home and saw the armored vehicle riddled with bullets.

She said an elderly man who lives on Dennis Street was inside the vehicle being tended to by paramedics.

“It’s just crazy,” said Gentry. “I’ve lived here about a year and it’s a nice, quiet neighborhood.”

The initial gunfire occurred about 2 p.m. and gunshots erupted several times after that as the standoff continued on the small road near Lehigh Avenue and Second Street.

A group of neighbors gathered at the end of the barricaded street gasped when they heard about 20 shots fired around 2:40 p.m.

“Oh my God,” one shouted.

Residents were told to shelter in place, and those trying to return home were kept blocks away. Todd Weaver, Northampton County’s director of emergency management, said residents east of the intersection of Freemansburg Avenue and Main Street and west of Third Street were advised to shelter in place and stay away from windows.

Multiple road blocks were set up in the area, particularly along Freemansburg Avenue. Motorists were advised to avoid the area.

Pancoast said state police and other neighboring departments were called to the area to assist his officers.

One Dennis Street neighbor was in his kitchen about 2 p.m. when he heard a noise that sounded like a jackhammer outside. Richard Furs said he opened his front door and didn’t see anything, so he went back to what he was doing and heard another flurry.

“By this time, I saw the cops across the street with the guns drawn and I could see the man and he’s behind a car,” Furs told The Morning Call by phone.

As Furs took shelter in his home, he said he could see the woman still face down under a tree outside. He also heard the volley of gunfire about 2:40 p.m.

“He’s shooting at the truck,” he yelled over the phone. “At the police SWAT truck.”

Barry Lorrah, who lives off Third Street in the neighborhood, said he heard a loud crack while he was working in his garage.

“I thought, ‘Wow, that was a gunshot,’” Lorrah said.

The single shot was followed by ambulance and police sirens, he said.

“That’s when all hell broke loose,” Lorrah said.