The Weld District Attorney has cleared the three officers who shot and killed a suspect after he pointed a loaded revolver at them in December.

The officers shot and killed Jose Angel Aguero, 26, on Dec. 21, after first attempting to subdue him with “less than lethal” weapons. Aguero pointed a revolver at officers, who ordered him to drop the weapon, but he didn’t. They opened fire, killing him with nine rounds.

“It is very sad for everyone involved,” Weld District Attorney Michael Rourke said Friday after releasing his report clearing the officers who shot Aguero. “I sympathize with his family, and the officers, too, who had to make that incredible choice. You feel for everyone involved in this situation, which certainly could have been avoided.”

To read the full report, click the full screen icon.

On Dec. 21, police were called to the 3800 block of Two Rivers Parkway south of U.S. 34, to the location of a stolen car. When officers arrived, the car was crashed into a ditch, and a truck driver was on scene trying to pull the car out. The car was taken earlier in downtown Greeley, and police were able to locate the vehicle through OnStar tracking.

The suspect, Aguero, was in the truck and ran from officers into a nearby cornfield and did not listen to their commands, according to Rourke’s report.

According the report, Aguero was under investigation for multiple car thefts in the area; in fact, a Greeley police detective had been in the middle of writing an arrest warrant for him for aggravated motor vehicle theft of another vehicle at the time of the call. When officers confronted him in the field, the report stated that he asked police multiple times not to shoot him, but he refused to obey their commands. All the while, his right hand was in his waistband, the report stated.

Officers first tried to subdue him with what are called “less than lethal” rounds of bean bags. Two shots brought Aguero to his knees, but he pulled a .38 caliber revolver out of his waist band and pointed it at two officers. Three officers then opened fire on him, hitting him with nine rounds. He was declared dead on scene. The investigation into the shooting revealed the gun Aguero had was stolen.

Greeley Police Chief Jerry Garner issued a written statement on Friday in response to the report.

“The officers involved in this incident went above and beyond in attempting to save this man’s life,” he sad in the statement. “Ultimately he would not let them do that. They did everything I would expect them to do and then some, but that doesn’t change the fact that it was a very sad situation.”

Rourke, too, praised officers for first attempting to subdue Aguero with the less lethal weapons.

“We haven’t seen it in other (officer-involved shootings),” Rourke said. “That was an incredible effort on Greeley police officers’ part to avoid the possible loss of life. Unfortunately, he didn’t respond to that.”

In a Facebook message posted before the report was released, Aguero’s mother, Irene Marie, asked for restraint on the part of those who may be upset about the report.

“We ask that you do not hate or condemn our police force,” the message stated. “We ask that you pray for the officers and families involved.”

She said she wanted the focus to be on the memory of her son.

“We want people to know how amazing Jose was. That’s the message we want to be heard. This report does not define who Jose was.”

In his report, Rourke said the officers were in reasonable fear of their lives, which is a legal standard he must weigh when investigating such shootings.

“I find that the officers were justified in using lethal force against Aguero because they reasonably believed that it was necessary to defend themselves and other citizens from Aguero’s threatened use of deadly physical force,” Rourke stated in his report. “Further, Aguero had committed a felony when he menaced officers with what they reasonably believed to be a deadly weapon.”

An autopsy report revealed Aguero had THC, the main hallucinogenic component of marijuana, plus amphetamines and methamphetamines in his system.

The report stated that Aguero had been the suspect in at least 30 police actions and investigations since 2006 in Greeley, Evans, Fort Collins, Windsor and Sydney, Neb. Since 2009, he had been booked into Weld County Jail 22 times, the report stated.

-Tribune reporter Trevor Reid contributed to this report.