One man is dead and a police officer injured after a series of shootings erupted Friday evening across Harrisburg.

The series of incidents began around 4 p.m. Friday afternoon, when there were a number of gunshots fired in the area of Third Street near the Pennsylvania Capitol.

Reports of shots fired near state Capitol in Harrisburg

According to witnesses at the scene, an initial burst of gunfire occurred on State Street. Immediately afterward, a small sedan was seen driving up State Street before turning onto Third. As the vehicle drove down Third Street, a second series of gunshots erupted from the car, at least one of which struck a Capitol Police vehicle in the driver's side window.

"Our officer is OK; he wasn't injured. He's in good shape," said Troy Thompson, a spokesman for the state Department of General Services, which manages the Capitol Police force.

The suspect then drove away from the Capitol complex toward Harrisburg's Allison Hill neighborhood. As the suspect fled the city's downtown, he again opened fire in the area of Fifth and Market Streets, according to law enforcement officials.

According to a woman who witnessed the shooting at Fifth and Market, the suspect may have been targeting a police vehicle he passed while heading north.

The suspect then re-encountered law enforcement officials in the area of 17th and Mulberry Streets around 5 p.m., at which time there was another exchange of gunfire, said Dauphin County District Attorney Edward Marsico.

During that exchange, the suspect -- who remains unidentified -- was killed. After the suspect was killed police discovered a 'device' next to the body, which the bomb squad was called in to clear.

At some point during the series of incidents a state police trooper suffered minor injuries, Marsico said. At a press conference late Friday evening Marsico said that the state trooper was "slightly injured, but by all accounts she was okay."

No bystanders or others have been reported injured, Marsico said. Marsico said law enforcement believes the suspect was acting alone.

The following map shows where the shooting incidents occurred and a probable path of the suspect based up on reports: