Officers were called to the Safeway on W. Northwest Boulevard for an armed robbery around 5:40 a.m. Officials got a description of Spottedhorse and the vehicle he was in through surveillance video.

SPOKANE, Wash. – The Spokane County Prosecutor’s Office has determined the officer who shot and killed a suspect in an armed robbery in December was justified in his use of force.

Officer Chris Lequire shot and killed Joshua Spottedhorse near N. Madison and W. Sharp on December 26, 2017.

Officers were called to the Safeway on W. Northwest Boulevard for an armed robbery around 5:40 a.m. Officials got a description of Spottedhorse and the vehicle he was in through surveillance video.

Authorities said Spottedhorse was traveling in a white Pontiac Grand Prix and it was seen going southbound on N. Ash Street and turned east onto W. Maxwell Ave. Then, it was reacquired near a home at 1420 N. Jefferson.

Several officers positioned themselves nearby to make a plan to contact spotted horse. At 6:20 a.m., officials said Spottedhorse got back in the vehicle and went eastbound in the alley and turned south on N. Madison Street. Officers followed him and they tried to detain him by using their vehicles to prevent his escape. Spottedhorse then got out of his car and ran. During the chase, officers yelled a number of commands for Spottedhorse to stop and show officers his hands.

Authorities said Spottedhorse abruptly stopped, spun around and faced squarely at Officer Lequire while placing his hand inside the front of his pants waistband. Officials said the officer fired his gun four times.

The Spokane County Prosecutor said the officer used deadly force out of fear Spottedhorse intended to retrieve a gun and shoot him and other officers. Spottedhorse was later pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics.

During the investigation, a 9mm shell casing was found in the Safeway parking lot and a 9mm semi-auto handgun was found at the home where Spottedhorse exited and got into a car.

Prosecutors said Lequire had reason to believe Spottedhorse was likely armed. They said he presented a serious and immediate threat to the officers on scene.