Tulare police have released the name of the suspect who police said pulled a gun and made threats toward officers Tuesday night.

The man was 40-year-old Robert Miller of Tulare.

The suspect had no contact with Tulare police prior to Tuesday night's shooting, Sgt. Jon Hamlin said. However, he was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving by California Highway Patrol officers this year.

On Tuesday night, police made a traffic stop in the 800 block of South Spruce Street in Tulare. Officers were responding to a possible domestic violence-related shooting that had been called in by witnesses.

Miller fired a gun then fled the scene in his truck, witnesses said.

More:Police: Tulare man threatened officers with gun

Witnesses were able to provide police with a suspect description as well as a vehicle description. Officers spotted Miller's truck just after 7 p.m. near Spruce and Stockham Avenue.

Police made a traffic stop on Spruce. Miller stopped the truck, got out and went for his gun, police said.

Officers gave orders, but the Miller didn't listen. Witnesses said Miller opened fire first.

"The suspect presented a threat to the officer and ultimately shots were fired," Hamlin said.

The officer immediately called for an ambulance. Miller was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he later died.

"Officers then made sure everyone in the area was safe," Hamlin said.

More:'It was terrifying ... that guy was going to shoot until he couldn't shoot anymore'

Miller's gun, recovered by police, was loaded with a round in the chamber. The .40 caliber Smith and Wesson was registered to Miller.

"We still do not have any confirmation on the number of shots fired or times the suspect was hit," Hamlin said. "The officer is still on administrative leave as it is still early in the investigation."

Each law enforcement agency has its own policy regarding the use of deadly force. Despite various policies, though, all officers are trained to stop the threat — the state trains officers to aim for the chest, not limbs.

This year, 11 people have been killed in domestic violence-related homicides in Tulare County. There have been three murder-suicides since April.

Tulare police made 176 felony domestic violence-related arrests in 2016.

If anyone has information regarding the case, call Tulare Police Department at 684-4290 or 686-3454.