Robo Raikoglo was shot and killed by Desert Hot Springs police Tuesday after allegedly shooting at his girlfriend.

According to court documents, the last altercation Raikoglo had with police was in Murrieta in June 2016. Officers responded to a domestic dispute call between him and an unidentified female companion. According to police, Raikoglo was on parole for weapons related charges and had an extensive criminal history for theft, narcotics and weapons related charges.

Coroner’s office identifies man killed in officer-involved shooting in Desert Hot Springs

Public information officer for Riverside County District Attorney’s Office, John Hall, confirmed that the DA’s office filed charges on him for this incident.

John Hall said that in July 2016, Raikoglo plead guilty to misdemeanor counts of resisting or obstructing arrest and felon in possession of a stun gun. Raikoglo was sentenced to 60 days in custody and three years of summary probation.

Hall also said that in August 2016, Raikoglo plead guilty to a violation of his probation and in September 2016 he was sentenced for violated probation. That sentence was 153 days custody. He had 77 days in custody and was given 76 days of credit for time served for a total of the 153 days so he had no remaining custody time.

According to court records, he has been charged numerous times dating back to 2005.

– In June 2014, he plead guilty to narcotics charges being in possession of a firearm.

– In September 2005, Raikoglo plead guilty to felony charges of taking a vehicle without the owner’s consent. He received three years probation.

– In December 2005, he violated his parole and was charged with possession of live ammunition with priors. He pleaded guilty and a year was added to his probation.

– In May 2006, he pleaded guilty to felony charges of receiving stolen property

Raikoglo was shot and killed by Desert Hot Springs police officers during a domestic dispute at a residence on the 13400 block of Cielo Azul Way.

In a press conference held Wednesday morning, DHS PD Chief Dale Mondary said the woman victim told officers Raikoglo assaulted and shot several rounds at her during an altercation.

Raikoglo, a parolee, fled the scene before police arrived, but returned a short time later. Officers said they attempted to make contact with Raikoglo but he pointed a handgun at them from the driver’s side window. Officers then fired at Raikoglo, killing him.

JOE GALLI IS ON FACEBOOK AND ON TWITTER @JOEGALLINEWS