The community of West Plains is grieving the loss of Kannen Farris, 29, who was killed over the weekend. An investigation is underway into his death. Authorities say the man who killed Farris was running from police at a high rate of speed early Sunday morning.

Grayson Smith, 21, was charged Monday afternoon with 2nd degree murder and felony resisting arrest by fleeing. His bond has been set at $250,000. Smith is still hospitalized following the crash.

Farris was almost home from work at Sonic, he was literally pulling into his driveway when a 21-year-old driver T-boned Farris' car.

Court records claim that while in Springfield, Smith refused a blood test, but admitted to Highway Patrol troopers that he had smoked a synthetic marijuana known as K2. K2 is treated as a controlled substance in Missouri.

Farris' family tells us they could not believe what they saw.

"Came out and yes, T-boned him and the car was ripped in half... he was thrown out of the car to where the flowers are," said Kannen's aunt Sharon Bladwin.

The house is located on a blind hill-- the speed limit 25mph. Police say an officer went to pull over the 21-year-old man for speeding, and he took off even faster. Officers say they later found the drug K2 in his car, and say that is perhaps why he sped off.

The officer pursued the driver for about one minute, police say. Then, they say they stopped the pursuit, but the young man, they say, kept speeding away.

"The suspect continued west on Broadway for a few blocks and went over the hill, and when he went over the hill, that's when the accident occurred," said West Plains police chief Jeff Head.

The officer involved is Brandon Stephens. He is a four-year veteran of the West Plains police department.

"He was a very good man, he had a son and a girlfriend, and he was doing right," Bladwin said.

His little 3-year-old pride and joy doesn't yet understand the loss.

"If you are going to put other people at risk and run away from the police... if you are already doing something criminal, and you do something even more severe by killing somebody, you don't deserve to be out there," said Farris' friend David Pray. He says this is a huge loss for the whole community, noting Farris had many friends.

"I feel like the police should also be prosecuted to some point, because there is no reason to be chasing somebody through a 15 mph zone.. no reason.. there is too much on this road," said Baldwin.

"To say there is a certain way the officer has to perform the pursuit, I cannot do that because different aspects bring in different things to the pursuit.. so that's what we have to look at And then we make a determination whether everything was followed correctly," said Chief Head.

"We lost a good person. He was a really good kid," said Pray.