Two teenagers were in a parked car then sped off when a cop walked up. Minutes later, after police were on their tail, they crashed into another car and one of them died.

Now, police are investigating whether officers did anything wrong.

The events began early Saturday when an officer went to a Coconut Creek apartment complex. He smelled alcohol and marijuana, and inside the teens’ car he saw a liquor bottle, as well as a mason jar with a leafy substance, police said.

The teens took off.

Elsewhere, the officers tried to stop the driver, Fabreece Ductan, 19, and his passenger, Abigail Espinoza, 18, both of Margate, police said.

Police said Fabreece Ductan was driving a car that fled from police, crashing it, killing his 18-year-old passenger. This photo is from a 2016 arrest.

There was a brief police pursuit, but officers lost sight of the car, police said. Less than a minute later, about 12:30 a.m. Saturday, Ductan crashed into another car, police said.

Espinoza was taken to a hospital and died.

Ductan and the driver of the other car were taken to Northwest Regional Hospital. Both were treated and released.

What charges Ductan faces, if any, will hinge on the outcome of Margate police’s traffic-homicide investigation.

The agency also is reviewing whether four officers complied with department procedure, including its policy on police pursuits, said police Sgt. Brandi DelVecchio. The officers are Rocco Favata, Chris Lewis, Cristian Salas and David Morales, the agency said.

The investigation has just begun, but it doesn’t appear the officers violated any policy, said Coconut Creek Detective Rod Skirvin, vice president of the Police Benevolent Association. He said it’s debatable how much of a pursuit there was, if any. “Once a guy in a pursuit is out of your eyesight, you aren’t pursuing anybody,” he said. “You might be attempting to locate someone.”

Ductan, who could not be reached for comment Monday, has had run-ins with the law in Broward County since 2014, state records show.

That includes a case last year in which Coral Springs police said they smelled marijuana coming from his car during a traffic stop. And when he refused to hand over his car keys, an officer yanked them from his hand to prevent him from driving off, police said.

He was charged with cannabis possession and resisting an officer without violence. He agreed to participate in a pretrial program, where if he were to stay out of trouble, the charges would be dismissed. That case is listed as pending, court records show.

In Georgia, he last year was cited for going 80 mph in a 55 mph zone, according to the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.

.ss-blurb-fblike{

padding-left:10px;

}

.ss-blurb-fblike-heading {

font-family: Georgia, Times New Roman, serif;

font-weight: bold;

}