Teresa Villanueva Ortuno died on the way to the hospital

Woman killed after minivan hit by drunk driver during chase, police say

A woman died Monday after her minivan was hit by a car driven by a drunk driver being chased by police, according to Charlotte-Mecklenburg police.Police said 30-year-old Adelbert Kevin Redo was driving northbound on Interstate 85 near Little Rock Road when a trooper pulled him over for speeding. Police said Redo resisted arrest during the traffic stop and dragged the trooper, who was trying to arrest him while he drove away. Police said Redo took the Little Rock Road exit while "driving at a high rate of speed." Redo then lost control of his car and drove off the road, police said. Redo’s car went airborne and hit two other vehicles when it landed, according to police. Police said Redo's car also hit a Chrysler Town & Country minivan driven by 45-year-old Teresa Villanueva Ortuno. Ortuno died on the way to the hospital, police said. Officers said two passengers in Ortuno's minivan were taken to the hospital with serious injuries. Police said Redo then ran away and was captured several blocks away by an off-duty North Carolina Highway Patrol trooper who saw the crash. Police said Redo was reportedly impaired.He is charged with second-degree murder, felony hit-and-run, two counts of felony serious injury by vehicle, driving while impaired and reckless driving. The passengers of the other two vehicles that were hit, including an 8-year-old, were not injured.

A woman died Monday after her minivan was hit by a car driven by a drunk driver being chased by police, according to Charlotte-Mecklenburg police.

Police said 30-year-old Adelbert Kevin Redo was driving northbound on Interstate 85 near Little Rock Road when a trooper pulled him over for speeding.

Advertisement

Police said Redo resisted arrest during the traffic stop and dragged the trooper, who was trying to arrest him while he drove away.

Police said Redo took the Little Rock Road exit while "driving at a high rate of speed."

Redo then lost control of his car and drove off the road, police said.

Redo’s car went airborne and hit two other vehicles when it landed, according to police.

Police said Redo's car also hit a Chrysler Town & Country minivan driven by 45-year-old Teresa Villanueva Ortuno.

Ortuno died on the way to the hospital, police said.

Officers said two passengers in Ortuno's minivan were taken to the hospital with serious injuries.

Police said Redo then ran away and was captured several blocks away by an off-duty North Carolina Highway Patrol trooper who saw the crash.

Police said Redo was reportedly impaired.

He is charged with second-degree murder, felony hit-and-run, two counts of felony serious injury by vehicle, driving while impaired and reckless driving.

The passengers of the other two vehicles that were hit, including an 8-year-old, were not injured.