Police say an officer shot and killed an armed man after a struggle Friday afternoon in Springfield.

Friday evening, police identified that man as William B. Oleson, 46, of Springfield.

Lt. Robert Byrne with the Springfield Police Department said officers were dispatched to North National Avenue near Atlantic Street at about 1:30 p.m. for reports of a burglary in progress.

Byrne said an officer contacted a suspect, now identified as Oleson, at the residence, and a physical struggle ensued.

At some point, Byrne said, Oleson pointed a gun at the officer, and the officer shot him.

Oleson was rushed to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to Byrne.

Police say the officer was not injured.

Later Friday, police tweeted that a man, Walter Tyndal, had been arrested for "resisting and fleeing from police in connection with the officer-involved shooting today."

National Avenue was blocked in both directions from Dale Street to about Commercial Street for several hours Friday.

A large section of the blocked-off area was surrounded by crime scene tape.

Chief Paul Williams posted a message on his Twitter account asking people to avoid the area.

As of Friday afternoon, Byrne said no one had been arrested -- prior to the arrest of Tyndal -- but police were trying to piece together how many people might have been involved in the incident.

He asked neighbors to be especially vigilant and call 911 to report any suspicious activity.

Zach Evans said he saw a man with a gun running across National Avenue at about 1:45 p.m., moments before a swarm of police cars arrived.

"He just looked frantic," Evans said. "He was trying to get into the bar, but there's no door there. And then he took off running behind the bar."

Police were seen taking someone into custody just after 2 p.m., on Prospect Avenue just south of Dale Street.

Byrne said that person ran from officers but it is unclear if that person was involved in the burglary incident.

Just before 3 p.m., police brought an armored vehicle to the scene. Officers could be heard trying to negotiate with someone inside a home on National Avenue near Atlantic Street.

Byrne said officers eventually made contact with that person and were trying to determine if that person had any involvement in the incident.

Neighbors reported hearing what sounded like 15 gunshots during the incident.

Byrne said Friday afternoon he did not know how many shots were fired, and officers were still investigating whether or not the deceased man fired any shots.

Police have not yet released the name of the officer.

Latosha Hahn and her 4-year-old daughter Dayzee were at home about two blocks away from from the scene when they heard more than a dozen shots in quick succession.

"Boom boom boom boom boom boom," Hahn said. "I freaked out for a minute, it's scary."

Hahn said she grabbed her daughter and locked all their doors while listening to the police scanner on her phone.

Hahn said she's lived in the neighborhood for nine years.

"I've heard gunshots from around (here), but seriously never this close to home before."

Stephen Hall, chief communications officer for Springfield Public Schools, said the district would have increased presence Friday afternoon at two schools near the shooting. Weller Elementary is east of the location and Robberson Elementary is west of the spot.

“We have been notified by 911 dispatch about an incident in that area,” Hall said. “Out of an abundance of caution, we have increased school police presence at both Weller and also Robberson.”

At one point during the incident, officers entered a business called Crazy Hats which is at the intersection of National Avenue and Atlantic Street.

The News-Leader reached bar owner Harry Wiley and his girlfriend by phone. They said no one came through the bar except for officers. They were told to stay indoors and keep their doors locked.