A 27-year-old man was killed in a police-involved shooting Saturday morning after striking an officer with his vehicle in a church parking lot, according to state police.

Gregory Stough, of the 200 block of Dicks Dam Road in New Oxford, was pronounced dead at the scene at 4:24 a.m., according to York County Coroner Pam Gay.

An autopsy on Stough's body, to determine the cause and manner of his death, is scheduled for 8 a.m. Monday at Lehigh Valley Hospital, Gay said Sunday.

Pennsylvania State Police Public Information Officer Brent Miller said Northern York County Regional Police officers initially were checking out a suspicious vehicle in the parking lot of Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene on Stillmeadow Lane, near Susquehanna Trail, in Manchester Township.

MORE:Police-involved shooting in York County church parking lot: Here's how it unfolded

MORE:Family of man shot by cop: 'We're still just trying to wrap our heads around this'

An officer made contact with Stough in his Pontiac Bonneville around 3:21 a.m. The officer discovered Stough was wanted on four traffic warrants related to vehicle inspections. Stough also had a suspended driver's license, police said.

A second officer arrived to help take Stough into custody. Stough resisted arrest, and during the struggle, he put his car in reverse with the driver's door still open, police said. He accelerated backwards, trapping the second officer between the door and the car.

READ:2017 homicides in York County 'Never this bad,' coroner's office says

READ:Skeletal remains in Lower Windsor Twp. are those of man who went missing in 2014

According to police, Stough continued driving in reverse and "propelled the officer violently into a parked police vehicle."

The first officer opened fire. Stough put the car in drive and traveled toward the officer who was firing at him, police said, before being fatally wounded.

Watch - police give update on the scene (story continues after video):

One Northern York County Regional Police Officer suffered minor injuries during the incident. The second officer, who fired his pistol at Stough, is on administrative leave.

State police are investigating, which is the protocol for a police-involved shooting. The York County Coroner's Office and District Attorney's Office are also investigating.

An autopsy will be scheduled at Lehigh Valley Hospital.

Family members said Saturday they weren't sure why Stough was at the church parking lot, but his father speculated his son might have been out drinking in the area. Stough might tried to stay with some family who lived near the church, but then tried to "sleep it off" in the parking lot.

Stough had some trouble with the law and with drinking but had recently been trying to turn himself around because he has daughters, according to his sister.

More:Man with AR-15 killed by police was Dover High School football all-star, loved by neighbors

This is the second week in a row that Northern York County Regional Police used deadly force.

An officer responding to a 911 call in Dover Township fatally shot Isaiah Christian Green, 21, on Dec. 28 after Green approached the officer with an AR-15 rifle, police said.

That case remains under investigation.

Church statement

Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene issued the following statement Saturday morning:

"As the media has reported, a life was lost. As a church family, we continue to recognize the brokenness of our world. Today, we are again reminded of that brokenness. Jesus remains the Prince of Peace and gives peace no matter the circumstances. We are calling on all to be in prayer as we process this together."

Also of interest, York County's most wanted (click here for more information):