Authorities say a man wanted in connection with three weekend ATM robberies was shot and killed Monday by Horn Lake police when he attempted to rob an on-duty officer at the same bank machine where the other robberies occurred.

The shooting occurred shortly before 5 a.m. on Windchase and Goodman Road in Horn Lake, said DeSoto County District Attorney John Champion during a 10:30 a.m. press conference at his Hernando office.

Champion said a Horn Lake investigator in plain clothes pulled up to the ATM around 4:50 a.m. on a “hunch” when he was approached by an armed man.

“There were other officers conducting surveillance for him and they immediately radioed to him that his vehicle was being approached by a man with a handgun,” Champion said. “The officer identified himself, at which time the subject ran from the bank to a vehicle."

The man rammed the police vehicles in the parking lot with his car. He then got on Goodman Road driving east before spinning out of control on the rain-slick street, Champion said.

“One of the officer’s vehicles hit the car. At this point the subject pulled out a pistol and fired a shot at officers,” Champion said. “The officers returned fire, killing the subject.”

Three officers fired at the suspect, but Champion said he could not release their names because of the ongoing investigation. He said they have not yet identified the man shot and killed by police.

The investigation is being led by agents with the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation, Champion said.

“He does match the description, and the vehicle that he was in matches the description of the car in the three robberies that occurred Friday, Saturday and Sunday,” Champion said. “We do believe it is the same subject.”

The car the man was driving was a Chevrolet Impala with Georgia tags.

“It is fairly obvious the subject was not from around here," Champion said. “There were multiple suitcases in the vehicle."

Around 9 a.m., the black Impala, which had damage to the driver’s side and the front and rear bumper, was towed from the scene on Goodman Road.

Champion said the car was taken to Batesville where investigators would process the vehicle.

He said the officers involved in the shooting were not injured. It is not known if the officers have been relieved of duty pending the outcome of the investigation.

“This was a classic example of an officer taking a hunch and putting his life on the line because, according to what officers said, he was approaching the vehicle that the officer was in armed and the surveillance officers could in fact see a firearm as he had it pointed toward the officer in the vehicle,” Champion said.

Check back with The Commercial Appeal for updates on this story.