Cherry Hill Courier-Post

GLOUCESTER TWP. – A man who fired several rounds at Gloucester Township police officers during a 13-hour standoff later killed himself, authorities said.

Police identified the man as Michael Glennon, 24, and released several new details about how the tense confrontation unfolded in the Brittany Woods development.

About 20 neighbors were evacuated, others were told to shelter in place overnight and several streets in the Sicklerville neighborhood were shut down during the standoff, which also prompted officials to close all township schools for a day.

More:Pair arrested in deadly Burlco shooting

More:Chesilhurst policeman arrested on drug charges

More:Police: Threat to Timber Creek High School unfounded

Officers responded to the Hampshire Road townhome about 8:05 p.m. Wednesday after Glennon got into an argument with a male family member, grabbed a gun and began shooting outside the residence, police said Saturday.

The family member escaped the home after officers arrived and cooperated with police.

Glennon started shooting again – this time at police – while officers were speaking by phone with his girlfriend, who was still inside the home, police said. He used an assault rifle to fire at least 15 rounds at a police department armored vehicle, authorities said.

Police said the girlfriend did not leave the home because she feared being harmed,

However, the woman, Callie Wolfe of Pitman, later said she had stayed in the house voluntarily in an effort to convince Glennon to surrender.

Law enforcement negotiators tried for nearly 10 hours to end the situation peacefully, but after several telephone conversations Glennon stopped answering their calls, police said.

Authorities then used an armored vehicle to break down the front door Thursday morning and sent in two Camden County Sheriff’s Office “search robots.”

Sheriff’s officers and township SWAT team members entered the home and found Glennon had used furniture to barricade the front door and a stairway, police said.

Around 9:30 a.m., police said, they found Glennon’s body, dead from “an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.”

His girlfriend was in an upstairs bedroom and wasn’t injured, police said.

Detectives found three firearms – an SKS 7.62 x39 rifle with a tripod, a hunting rifle, and a Smith & Wesson .38-caliber handgun – in the home along with ammunition.

Police said they’re still investigating how Glennon got the weapons, noting he did not have a New Jersey Firearms identification card.

More:LETTER: Gloucester Twp. police chief right to invest in safety

More:Man dead in Gloucester Twp. home after standoff

More:WATCH: Crews remove Chevy Avalanche from house

“There are no charges against the family member and girlfriend at this time pending the determination of how the firearms were obtained,” police said.

Police said they never fired their weapons at any point during the standoff. No officers were injured.

“The Gloucester Township Police want the residents to know that this was an isolated incident and that the community is safe,” police said.

The department’s Community Outreach Team is inviting neighbors to visit officers from 1:30 to 4:30 p.m. Monday at the new park on Yorkshire Road. Officers will answer community concerns and children can play games.