The Dauphin County District Attorney’s Office has completed its investigation into the incident that resulted in the death of Deputy United States Marshal Christopher Hill and Kevin Sturgis on January 18, 2018, in the City of Harrisburg. The focus of our investigation was whether the use of deadly force upon Kevin Sturgis by law enforcement officers was legally justified. The Criminal Investigation Division of the District Attorney’s Office had the assistance of numerous law enforcement agencies including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Marshals Service, and the Pennsylvania State Police. We also had the cooperation of the many law enforcement agencies that contribute members to the fugitive task force. We had the benefit of preliminary results of ballistics testing by the FBI Laboratory.

On the morning of January 18, 2018, the Fugitive Task Force of the United States Marshals Service went to 1837 Mulberry Street, Harrisburg, the home of Shayla L. Pierce also known as Shayla Towles, to serve a felony warrant upon Pierce for carrying a firearm without a license, terroristic threats, and simple assault by physical menace. The task force consists of Deputy United States Marshals and state and local law enforcement officers who are sworn as Special Deputy United States Marshals. As required by federal and state law absent special circumstances, the task force officers knocked at the door, announced their identity, authority and purpose, and waited a reasonable period for a response. Task force members entered the house, arrested Towles, and began securing the house.

While the team was securing the first floor, Kevin Sturgis yelled, “are you looking for me?” from the top of the stairs. Then, as he descended the stairs, Sturgis fired on task force members. Sturgis' first shot struck a task force member in the elbow. In response, another task force member returned fire towards Sturgis. One of the bullets fired in self-protection passed through a wall and struck Deputy Marshal Hill.

Task force members who were inside the house retreated through the rear door. Task force members rendered aid to Deputy Marshal Hill. Sturgis exited the house through the front door and continued to fire on deputies, striking one of them in the ballistic vest. Task force members justifiably used deadly force upon Sturgis to end the threat.

Subsequent investigation revealed that Sturgis was wanted in connection with the shooting of a pregnant woman in Philadelphia. Based upon all of these circumstances, Sturgis is responsible for both his own death and the death of Deputy United States Marshal Christopher Hill. Sturgis maliciously and unnecessarily set in motion the exchange of gunfire that led to both deaths.

The investigation revealed that all the task force members performed very well under extremely stressful circumstances. Deputy Marshal Hill died a hero. And the results of this investigation do not in any way diminish the heroism exhibited by the other members of the team on that day. I hope that the media will respect the privacy of the individual members of this team who are still suffering from the loss of their colleague.

–Francis T. Chardo, District Attorney of Dauphin County