Suzie Schottelkotte

suzie.schottelkotte@theledger.com

LAKE WALES — A 46-year-old Lake Wales man died Saturday following a shootout with four Polk County deputies at his home.

Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said the incident began early Saturday morning when Shannon Jason Cables, 46, assaulted his wife and 19-year-old daughter in their home at 4235 Cottage Hill Street, a dirt road west of Lake Wales. He had threatened his wife, spraying her with mace and hitting her in the head with a pool cue, Judd said.

Cables armed himself with a gun, Judd said.

"That's when the 19-year-old actually jumped on the suspect and wrestled and choked him," Judd said, "and somehow, they got to get away from him."

The two women called for help as Cables fled into the woods behind the house.

While the two women sought medical attention for their injuries, the Sheriff’s Department used K-9s and a helicopter to track Cables, but were unable to find him.

About 2:15 p.m., deputies returned to the house with the two women, Judd said. While inside, the daughter told deputies she saw Cables outside the house. Cables was coming toward the house armed with a shotgun and an AR-15, he said. The deputies told him to drop his weapons, and when he didn’t, a gunfight ensued. Judd said the preliminary investigation hasn’t revealed who fired first.

But he said it wouldn’t matter.

“It doesn’t make any difference," Judd said. "He approached them and raised his gun.”

When Cables approached the house, there were two deputies outside, Judd said, and two inside. The deputies who were inside came outside, and at least three of the deputies returned fire. He said it was confirmed that Cables fired his weapon because shells from the AR-15 were found outside.

“It could have been a lot worse,” Judd said, had the daughter not seen Cables approaching the house armed.

First aid was administered on the scene, and Cables was taken to Lake Wales Medical Center, where he was declared dead.

The four deputies will be placed on paid administrative leave with pay while the case is investigated, Judd said. The Sheriff’s Office will conduct a homicide investigation as well as an administrative review of the use of deadly force. The State Attorney’s Office will investigate as well, along with the Medical Examiner’s Office.

Suzie Schottelkotte can be reached at suzie.schottelkotte@theledger.com or 863-533-9070. Follow her on Twitter @southpolkscene.