ONEIDA, N.Y. -- An unarmed man died Monday after being struck twice by officers' Tasers in the city of Oneida, Oneida City Police Chief Paul Thompson said.

John C. Havener Jr., 41, of Vernon Center, died at a local hospital after he was subdued, Thompson said at a news conference Monday afternoon.

The New York Attorney General's Office is investigating the death, he said. The office investigates deaths of unarmed people in police custody, under an executive order by Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

Oneida police arrived around 4:15 a.m. Monday on Route 5 in Oneida in response to a call about a man, later identified as Havener, standing in the street, shouting at drivers, Thompson said.

Oneida police found Havener and described his conduct as "just generally being very disorderly ... flagging down vehicles and obstructing traffic," he said.

Officers also discovered a disabled vehicle in the snow bank, which Havener had driven and possibly crashed, Thompson said. Thompson would not say whether there was anyone else was in the vehicle.

Thompson said officers tried talking him out of the road, but Havener became violent.

This is the approximate site along Route 5 where police said a 41-year-old, unarmed man was killed after being struck by two Tasers fired by police. (Patrick Lohmann | Syracuse.com)

"What our officers did was try to verbally direct this person out of the roadway and see what the problem was," Thompson said. "He remained very violent and attempted to fight with our officers."

Thompson did not describe how Havener was violent.

Thompson said Oneida police called for backup from other local police agencies. First, Canastota police officers arrived, followed by Madison County Sheriff's Office deputies and then New York State Police officers, he said.

"At some point during the encounter a Taser was deployed," Thompson said.

The non-lethal weapon did not have the desired effect, and the "incident transpired" further, Thompson said.

Officers followed Havener a "couple hundred" feet down Route 5, Thompson said. Havener was ultimately secured through the use of a second Taser bolt, he said.

Thompson declined to say which agencies fired their Tasers.

Havener was secured in handcuffs in a parking lot near an Arby's on Route 5.

That's when officers noticed Havener was having trouble breathing, Thompson said.

"As our officers were dealing the subject, it became clear that he was having some difficulty with his breathing," Thompson said.

He was taken to nearby Oneida Health Care, where he was pronounced dead, Thompson said.

Between officers' initial arrival and Havener's death, "several minutes" elapsed, Thompson said.

Because Havener was unarmed, the Attorney General's Office has the authority to investigate his death and will determine whether any officers committed a crime.

Two Attorney General investigators arrived earlier today and will assist New York State Police with its investigation into Havener's death. The office confirmed Monday afternoon it had opened its investigation.

"We're committed to conducting an independent, comprehensive, and fair investigation," AG's Office spokeswoman Amy Spitalnick said in an email to Syracuse.com.

State Police spokesman Jack Keller said police have recovered some surveillance video, and officers are asking any possible witnesses to come forward.

Keller said an autopsy will be conducted today or Tuesday in Onondaga County. A toxicology report could take weeks, he said.

Police have notified Havener's family about his death.

Officers shut down part of Route 5 until just before noon today as they investigated.

Dan Hartner, an employee at Enterprise Rent-a-car across the street from the Arby's, said he arrived to work at 6 a.m. to see numerous police vehicles with lights flashing blocking off a long stretch of Route 5

He said he saw a black sedan off the north side of Route 5 that had clearly been involved in a crash. It was facing east right in front of the State Police Troop D barracks, he said.

Through the business' front window, he saw a cluster of officers and 10 to 12 evidence markers on the road, he said.

Brent Buell, an insurance agent with an office across the street from State Police barracks, said he snapped a photo of several dozen evidence markers -- all of them on the roadway -- when he walked to work around 10 a.m. Police could be seen in the photo standing on Route 5 in front of the barracks.