A man was fatally shot by Tulsa police officers after a low-speed pursuit and standoff Monday afternoon.

The man, identified later as 40-year-old Joseph E. Knight, was shot by two officers and later was pronounced dead at a hospital, police spokeswoman Jeanne MacKenzie said.

The man had led police on a low-speed pursuit after fleeing from a routine traffic stop near 1400 N. Peoria Ave. at 1:22 p.m. The pursuit ended near Pine Street and Tacoma Avenue at 1:30 p.m. when the man got out of the vehicle with a shotgun pointed at his head, MacKenzie said.

The man went behind his house but continued to communicate with police.

Sgt. Dave Walker said that “Knight had his finger on the trigger as he placed the shotgun to his chin (and then) sat down in a cabinet that was outside near the back door of the residence.”

After more than an hour, the man attempted to kick in the back door of the house and shot himself in the shoulder in the process, MacKenzie said.

The man was walking in the side yard with the shotgun in front of him, refusing commands to drop the shotgun, when he was shot by the two officers, police said.

The shooting occurred between 2:45 and 3 p.m. After the shots rang out, police were seen dragging a young man away from the house.

As the man left the scene, tears in his eyes, he said to reporters that his uncle had just had a shootout with police.

Danny Gress, a neighbor, said Knight’s father had come to Gress’ home during the standoff and said he needed help picking up a grandchild from school but that he was blocked in by police who had his house surrounded because his son was in his backyard pointing a shotgun to his head.

Gress said the father owns the house where Knight was living.

Another neighbor, Cheryl Gress, said Knight seemed “a little off” and had been in and out of prison.

The two officers who fired their guns and another who fired a less-lethal weapon have been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation of the shooting, MacKenzie said.

Police said a felony arrest warrant for Knight had been issued in Osage County. That, together with the gun in the vehicle, might have been why he fled from police during the traffic stop.

The shooting Monday was Tulsa’s first officer-involved homicide of 2018. Last year, the city saw six such deaths, including five that were shootings.