Police were justified when they shot and killed a man in Battle Creek on Jan. 22, according to a Calhoun County prosecutor.

Joshuah Prough, 36, was shot to death by members of the Michigan State Police Fifth District Fugitive Team who were attempting to arrest him on several felony warrants.

In a 12-page opinion released to the Enquirer Wednesday, Calhoun County Prosecutor David Gilbert determined the officers "violated no criminal law. They acted in lawful self-defense of themselves and/or others after being put in a potentially deadly situation solely by the actions of Mr. Prough."

Prough was shot about 8:45 a.m. that morning inside a second-floor apartment at Tree Top Apartments at 151 W. Burnham St.

More:Man fatally shot by police at Battle Creek apartment complex

Gilbert said his review concluded that the officers forced open the door of the apartment and were confronted by Prough, who pointed a loaded handgun at them and refused to drop it and was shot multiple times.

An autopsy showed Prough sustained 24 wounds, although some may have been from the same bullet. Fifteen bullets were removed from his body.

Prough's mother could not immediately be reached for comment.

Six officers from the state police fugitive team — Detective Sgt. Kevin Conklin, Detective Trooper James Gillespie, Detective Trooper Tyler Roots, Detective Trooper John Miller, Detective Trooper Craig Theodore and Battle Creek Police Detective Andrew Horn — had been searching for Prough for several days after his family reported a breaking and entering in which two handguns were stolen.

Arrest warrants were issued and the officers had information that Prough was staying with a friend at the apartment complex.

The family also told police he had been diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic and had stopped taking his medications and instead was self-medicating with marijuana.

Gilbert said the officers went to the apartment on the morning of the shooting and first knocked on the door. When Prough opened it and saw the officers he shut the door and refused to come out.

The officers talked to him through the door, explaining they had a warrant for his arrest and said at one point he told them he would come out after smoking a cigarette.

The officers said he was making delusional statements, including that the CIA killed his father, that the police were killers working with the Russians and that Russians were going to kill him.

Fearing he was arming himself with guns, the officers used a battering ram to open the door and the officers entered, the first carrying a ballistic shield, Gilbert said.

Some of the officers reported seeing Prough with one handgun pointed at them and some said he was holding two guns. The officers were between four and nine feet from Prough.

Gilbert concluded that the officers yelled "gun" and then gave several commands for Prough to drop the guns before Conklin, Gillespie, Roots and Horn, began firing. Prough did not fire a weapon and the officers fired a combined 28 times.

The officers found Prough had two loaded handguns which were taken in the burglary reported by family members.

Gilbert said officers are permitted to use deadly force "if the officer reasonably believes that he or she is in immediate danger of serious bodily injury or death.

"Deadly force was used in this case and deadly force was justified under the circumstances," he wrote.

He said the officers did not have a duty to wait before firing although they did give him several commands to put down the guns and get to the floor.

Gilbert also said he didn't find that the number of shots was excessive based on the guns used and the time it takes for an officer to fire and then make the decision to stop.

He said officers were armed with 9 mm handguns and .223 caliber rifles, including one that was fired on full automatic.

"While the number of shots may appear excessive to some, it is not excessive based on the time period involved, the time typically needed to dial down the fear, the type of guns used, the number of people shooting and the time needed to change the decision to shoot," Gilbert said.

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow him on Twitter: @TSChristenson.