Jan Skutch

jskutch@savannahnow.com

A Chatham County grand jury on Wednesday determined that the Jan. 23 police shooting death of Ricky Boyd was justified to prevent his use of deadly fire to law enforcement officers and others.

The nine-page general presentment also found that Boyd was “likely aware that when he pointed the BB pistol at armed law enforcement officers that they would shoot and likely kill him.”

Boyd’s weapon was identified as a CO2 powered BB air gun that appeared to officers as a "real weapon," the grand jury found.

And, they said, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation’s probe into Boyd’s death was “full, fair and impartial.”

“The grand jury found there was no evidence justifying Mr. Boyd’s family to have lost confidence in the district attorney’s office handling of this case,” the presentment said.

Boyd, 20, who was shot and killed Jan. 23 outside his home at 113 Marian Circle where Savannah-Chatham police, U.S. marshals and marshals' task force members were serving arrest warrants for felony murder, party to the crime of armed robbery and party to the crime of aggravated assault about 6:15 a.m.

The arrest warrants stemmed from the Jan. 21 shooting death of Balil Whitfield, 24, on Hudson Street during a drug transaction.

A Savannah police officer – Sgt. Sean Wilson – was shot three times and wounded during the incident.

Eight law enforcement officers fired 23 times during the incident.

District Attorney Meg Heap elected to use the grand jury as a civil panel to allow the 19-member group to decide the next steps in the process.

The finding came at the end of three days of presentation of what Heap said was all available evidence in her possession.

The grand jury also found that:

• Statements from the testimony of the eight law enforcement officers who fired their weapons at Boyd was corroborated by civilian witnesses and Boyd family members who witnessed the shooting.

• Savannah-Chatham police Sgt. Wilson’s gunshot wounds were inflicted accidentally by gunfire from a deputy U.S. Marshal who was shooting in the direction of Boyd and that evidence showed that the bullets that caused those wounds ricocheted off the house.

• Savannah-Chatham police Sgt. Samuel Hunt was able to retrieve and secure Boyd’s BB pistol, “picked up the weapon and retreated with the weapon back to the pine tree located in the front of 111 Marian Circle where he continued to use the tree as cover. Once there, he laid the weapon on the ground. This action was corroborated by multiple civilian and law enforcement testimony.”

• “Furthermore, the grand jury found no evidence to suggest that the BB pistol recovered by Sgt. Hunt was moved in a suspicious manner to any place whatsoever.”

• That while U.S. marshals do not use body cameras “as a matter of national policy", two Savannah Chatham officers did.

• One “captured the shooting from the edge of the yard near the roadway,” and the second “captured the sound of gunfire followed by the voice of a deputy U.S. marshal in the front yard moments after the shooting asking Ricky Boyd to show his hands so that they could render aid and asking other agents if they would see the gun that Ricky Boyd had been holding.”

• An autopsy found that Boyd died from “multiple gunshot wounds.”

• Toxicology reports showed that Boyd had “the presence of marijuana in his blood.”

• The grand jury found no evidence whatsoever that "(interim Savannah-Chatham police) Chief Mark Revenew made false statements to the news media. … Although different, each statement made to the media was truthful and accurate. Such information was provided in good faith to the media based on preliminary reports.”

Boyd family attorney Will Claiborne announced on Monday that Boyd family members would not testify before the panel because they had lost confidence in the process.

He elected to let statements to law enforcement officials on Jan. 23 to be substituted for the live testimony.

But the grand jury found that Heap’s office “made diligent efforts for Ricky Boyd’s family members to discuss their testimony prior to May 21, 2018, but the family, on advice of their attorney, Will Claiborne, refused to meet for that purpose.”

“We are saddened but not surprised by today’s decision," Claiborne said in a statement Wednesday night. "We have said from day one that Ricky never murdered anyone.

"This presentment makes that clear. We are heartbroken to learn that law enforcement knew Ricky was not a murderer when they knocked on the door of the family home on Jan. 23rd, and yet still took his life.

"That we still do not know who is responsible for killing him -- or for shooting their fellow Savannah Police officer – is shocking and appalling. The shooting of unarmed black men is a national disgrace. We will not stop until the system is reformed. We will not stop until we secure justice for this family.”

Heap responds

“The jurors took their duty very seriously,” Heap said Wednesday night. “We put up all information that we had, including law enforcement, civilians and even family members. We also gave the deceased's family a chance to come in and testify and they refused."

Heap said she contacted U.S. Attorney Bobby Christine on April 10 to see if the he wanted to conduct a federal investigation running along with a state investigation because the case involved federal law enforcement officers.

“I receiveD confirmation last Friday that the Department of Justice will begin an investigation once my case is closed. We have state charges and we have federal charges. The grand jury has spoken to the state charges.”

“I welcome a second review by the Department of Justice,” she said.

Included in the information presented to the grand jury was a statement by Boyd’s 15-year-old sister, Ja’Lescia Smiley, to GBI Agent Barry Thompson at the shooting scene.

The juvenile told Thompson she and family members found police outside of their home early Jan. 23 looking for Boyd.

“When he came out, I heard him shoot first,” she said. “I don’t know if that was a real gun or a BB gun. … It looked like a 45 or a 9. It sounded like he had a real gun.

“I know I heard it go off because that’s when they started shooting at him and then he dropped to the ground."

She told the agent officers told Boyd to"hold your hands up like 3, 2 times … Come out with your hands up.”

“They told him to hold his hands up,” she said.

“Did police shoot first?” the agent asked.

“No they didn’t,” she replied.

“I seen his hands go this way like he pointed at them,” she said. “I seen his hands go this way and something went off. … It looked like he did (fire the gun) because they wouldn’t have shot at him.