Carlos R. Munoz

carlos.munoz@heraldtribune.com

MANATEE COUNTY — A Manatee County Sheriff's deputy will not face charges or be disciplined for shooting and killing an unarmed man in January.

The State Attorney's Office informed Sheriff Rick Wells of its findings Thursday, stating in a memo that suspect Corey Mobley created the reasonable appearance of lethal danger after he battered his wife at a gas station, ran from authorities, and refused to comply with K-9 Deputy Patrick Drymon's commands.

The prosecutors' findings came four months after a confrontation between Mobley and two deputies in a residential neighborhood where Mobley, who was distraught over a separation from his wife, abandoned his car and ran between houses.

Drymon released his canine to track Mobley over a six-foot fence and into a dimly lit backyard, where he ordered Mobley to show his hands and get on the ground. But Mobley shouted to the deputy, "I got a gun for you," and began to approach the deputy with the dog tugging at his leg.

Drymon fired four shots at Mobley that struck him five times, according to an autopsy report. Bystanders and law enforcement witnesses provided consistent testimony that Mobley made verbal threats and put his hands on his waistband "implying he had a firearm," according to the State Attorney's Office.

"These multiple verbal threats, simultaneously done while Mobley put his hands on his waistband implying that he had a firearm, created reasonable belief that deadly force was necessary. Accordingly, the State Attorney's Office finds that Deputy Patrick Drymon's use of deadly force was justified under the circumstances and therefore no charges will be filed," the report states.

Bullets pierced Mobley's heart, lungs and liver causing his death, according to Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Russell Vega, who conducted an autopsy. He noted wounds to Mobley's left hip, two to the upper back and one through the left elbow, which he believes caused his hip wounds.

The medical examiner concluded that statements from Drymon and Deputy Charles Wolfinger about the shooting were consistent with his findings.

The Manatee County Sheriff's Office Crime Scene Unit collected photographic evidence and video at the scene, but did not find a firearm. A bottle of vodka was recovered from the floorboard of his car.

Toxicology results determined that Mobley's blood alcohol level was .13 — well over the legal limit to drive in Florida.

Prosecutors said Drymon, who was in fear for his life, had justifiable cause to use deadly force to resist an attempt to commit death or crime.

A Manatee County Sheriff's Office Professional Standards internal investigation determined that Drymon acted reasonably to prevent harm and acted within the agency's policies.