Investigators must now determine if deadly force was justified

Police officials spoke with news crews after the shooting

Officials say video surveillance from this Conoco store led officers to the suspect

A collision on the Northern Boulevard near Congressman Dickinson Drive was the end of the line for a robbery suspect. She was identified Tuesday as 35-year-old Valerie Chapman of Montgomery.

Police say around 5:00 Monday afternoon they spotted her white car in the Chisolm area. The chase started there, moved to Highway 231 and finally ended right in the middle of rush hour traffic.

Five officers boxed in Chapman's car. Police Chief John Wilson says, "No one wanted the chase to end in the suspect's death. One of our officers approached the car and gave the command for the person to come out. The person raised a weapon at that time. And the officer took action to protect himself and fired shots." Chief Wilson says officers fired several shots at Chapman, who was still in the car at the time of her death.

Wilson went on to say, "Whatever the evidence shows we will deal with it. If someone did something wrong we will deal with it. We've proven that in the past. At this point I don't see where any improper action was taken."

Now investigators from the Alabama Bureau of Investigation are in charge and must determine if the Montgomery officers' actions were justified. Wilson says there's no question in his mind. "She clearly knew she was dealing with law enforcement officers. The units were marked. The officers were in uniform. When she raised the gun she put her own life in jeopardy as well as the officers," Wilson says..

It all started when Chapman allegedly robbed a Conoco gas station on Fairground Road. And police say they probably wouldn't have caught up with her if it weren't for the gas station's surveillance video.

Mayor Bobby Bright says, "The business had the video camera going and the quality of the video helped us go ahead and get a preliminary robbery warrant on this suspect."

Once police knew who she was, they spotted her a few hours after the robbery on Midway Street. There, the officers apparently tried to forceably remove her from the car and arrest her. Instead, she led them on the chase that ultimately ended in the shooting.