UPDATE 7/10/18: TV6 has obtained video from an officer-involved shooting in Rock Falls. The video shows the moment 43-year-old Nathaniel Edwards was pulled over and shot at. He died from a gunshot wound.

The video shows the six-and-a-half minute chase, and police approaching from the side towards Edwards as they fire their weapons from the far right side of the video. The video shows that from weapons being fired to Edward's pulse being checked there is a two-minute delay, and medical personnel arrived on scene 9 minutes after no pulse is found.

The video does not confirm the location of Officer Carter nor show him when he fires his weapon.

The recording's audio also captures moments where an Officer Sugars involved saying comments such as "You're gonna get shot," "What's his name?" "No idea." The officer's microphone recording ends 12 minutes and 42 seconds into the 23 minutes and 32-second video clip.

TV 6 has reached out to Rock Falls Police to see if there is another angle available to see the incident, and if the department plans to get body cameras.

UPDATE: 6-29-18: The Whiteside County Attorney reviewed the investigation by Illinois State Police and concluded that the shooting was in self-defense, since the suspect, Nathaniel T. Edwards, was revving his car's engine while going in reverse toward the officer who opened fire, killing Edwards. See the entire document on the investigation below.

-------------------------

UPDATE: Illinois State Police are now investigating an officer-involved shooting that happened in the 1300 block of Franklin Street in Rock Falls, Illinois.

State Police Crime Scene Investigators processed the shooting scene and collected evidence from the involved officer and the person who was killed. They also spoke with witnesses early Saturday morning until 3 a.m.

Investigators also collected dash camera video from one Rock Falls squad car and two Whiteside County squad cars.

Police are not giving any details on regarding the shooting itself, nor are they releasing the name of the person who was killed.

Multiple people who saw the incident take place tell TV-6 that some sort of police chase happened, and shots were fired.

Whiteside County Coroner will perform an autopsy on the person on Monday.

UPDATE: Illinois State Police are investigating an officer-involved shooting in Rock Falls, Illinois.

According to a Facebook post by the Rock Falls Police Department, officers tried to conduct a traffic stop on a vehicle traveling eastbound on Dixon Ave. in Rock Falls.

The vehicle did not stop and officers followed it to the 1300 block of Franklin St. There the officers were involved in an officer-involved shooting.

According to that post, the department says preliminary information indicates the officers acted appropriately. They also wrote an investigation is being done by the Illinois State Police Integrity Task Force.

The Facebook post doesn't give any indication of the condition of the driver or the officers but did say, "Our thoughts are with the Officers involved and their families, and the family of the decedent."

We've reached out to the Rock Falls Police Department for more information, we're hoping to learn more today.