A police officer fatally shot a man who fled from a traffic stop Sunday night in northwest Baltimore, city police said.Baltimore police media relations Chief T.J. Smith said the incident started as a traffic stop on Westgate Avenue and that the driver fled. The Foxtrot helicopter tracked the vehicle as it took off.On video, the suspect, Billy Lewis Rucker, 33, can be heard yelling, "Y'all can't stop me."The vehicle was found abandoned near Roslyn Avenue and Gwynns Falls Parkway, and officers spotted Rucker and a female passenger on Gwynns Falls, police said.Police said Rucker ran, pulled out a gun and pointed it at officers. During a foot chase, Rucker dropped a magazine from a gun, police said.Police said the footage shows a muzzle flash from the gun before the officer fired hisservice weapon, striking Rucker, who died at a hospital.Officers recovered a semiautomatic handgun and a replica firearm, Smith said. Police said Rucker pointed the real gun at police officers before he was shot and that the replica gun was in a bag."There are multiple opportunities in this scenario for him to surrender, for him to give up. And we saw him take off from his vehicle, and then we saw him take off again on foot, and there was a point, I guess, he wasn't going back to jail. We were just fortunate no innocent people were injured in this scenario," Smith said.Police revealed the suspect had three felony drug convictions and two handgun convictions on his record. "Unfortunately, these are the type of encounters that take place. It's certainly not a scenario that anyone wanted to be in this evening, but again, we're dealing with somebody with a real gun who had multiple opportunities to surrender," Smith said.Police said no officers were injured.The woman, who stayed by the car, was taken into custody and was not hurt.Smith said Rucker was known to police.The officer who shot the suspect was a six year veteran of the force assigned to the northwest district and is being placed on routine administrative duties.Refresh wbaltv.com and our app, and watch 11 News for late-breaking updates.

A police officer fatally shot a man who fled from a traffic stop Sunday night in northwest Baltimore, city police said.

Baltimore police media relations Chief T.J. Smith said the incident started as a traffic stop on Westgate Avenue and that the driver fled. The Foxtrot helicopter tracked the vehicle as it took off.



Advertisement

On video, the suspect, Billy Lewis Rucker, 33, can be heard yelling, "Y'all can't stop me."

The vehicle was found abandoned near Roslyn Avenue and Gwynns Falls Parkway, and officers spotted Rucker and a female passenger on Gwynns Falls, police said.

Police said Rucker ran, pulled out a gun and pointed it at officers. During a foot chase, Rucker dropped a magazine from a gun, police said.

Police said the footage shows a muzzle flash from the gun before the officer fired his

service weapon, striking Rucker, who died at a hospital.

Officers recovered a semiautomatic handgun and a replica firearm, Smith said. Police said Rucker pointed the real gun at police officers before he was shot and that the replica gun was in a bag.



Baltimore police Billy Lewis Rucker

"There are multiple opportunities in this scenario for him to surrender, for him to give up. And we saw him take off from his vehicle, and then we saw him take off again on foot, and there was a point, I guess, he wasn't going back to jail. We were just fortunate no innocent people were injured in this scenario," Smith said.



Police revealed the suspect had three felony drug convictions and two handgun convictions on his record.

"Unfortunately, these are the type of encounters that take place. It's certainly not a scenario that anyone wanted to be in this evening, but again, we're dealing with somebody with a real gun who had multiple opportunities to surrender," Smith said.



Police said no officers were injured.

The woman, who stayed by the car, was taken into custody and was not hurt.

Smith said Rucker was known to police.

The officer who shot the suspect was a six year veteran of the force assigned to the northwest district and is being placed on routine administrative duties.

Refresh wbaltv.com and our app, and watch 11 News for late-breaking updates.



This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Body Worn Camera video from officer involved shooting Sunday night in Northwest Baltimore. @wbaltv11 #wbal pic.twitter.com/xig68l0pcX — Kai Reed (@KaiWBAL) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Police say this started as a traffic stop and the driver fled.



Police say the passenger, a woman, was taken into custody and is not hurt #WBAL — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Police say the suspect is a 33 year old man. They say he was armed with a semi automatic gun and a replica gun.



Police say he pointed the real gun at the officer #WBAL — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

#BREAKING police say the suspect shot by officers has died. #WBAL — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

I spotted two evidence markers.l (circled in red)@BaltimorePolice don’t expect to start the media briefing before 10 pm #WBAL pic.twitter.com/3rnz8J8zJI — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

It’s hard to see but there’s a piece of a car bumper laying in the grass. Not sure if it’s related to this incident. #WBAL pic.twitter.com/55oWtxJOHy — IG: @Vanessa__Herring (@VanessaHerring) January 29, 2018

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.