WAVERLY - The mother of the man shot and killed in an officer-involved shooting in Pike County earlier this year wasn't surprised when notified of his death, officials say.

Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation documents obtained by The Gazette through a public records request provide additional details into the shooting death of 35-year-old James M. Burks, of Peebles.

Burks was killed in an officer-involved shooting in February of this year after Pike County sheriff's deputy Erik M. Zirneskie tried to make a traffic stop on Ohio 124.

In a transcribed interview between BCI investigators and Lt. James Burchett, the deputy told investigators Burks' mother, along with two others, who were notified as next of kin the day of the incident, weren't surprised by the news.

"Um, they wasn't surprised by it. They were very upset about it. Um, several times they made the comments wanting to know if our deputies were okay," Burchett told investigators. According to Burchett, the mother said Burks had made threats in the past, refusing to return to jail. In the interview, Burchett mentioned the phrase "death by cop."

Tragic ending

Pike County Court records indicate Burks pleaded guilty to a first-degree misdemeanor domestic violence charge in 2014. He was ordered to complete three years of probation, as well as a batterer's intervention program and mental health counseling.

In Burchett's interview with investigators, he said Burks' mother said he'd struggled with mental health issues and had been using methamphetamine in recent months.

In July 2017, Burks faced another first-degree misdemeanor domestic violence charge, and a warrant was issued for his arrest later that month. Court records indicate a warrant was also issued for Burks out of Pike County Court for failure to appear on a driving under suspension charge the same month.

In a Feb. 1 press release, Pike County Sheriff Charlie Reader announced a Pike County deputy - later identified as Zirneskie - attempted to make a traffic stop in the 13000 block of Ohio 124, when the vehicle turned into a driveway leading to a house, and three people fled from the car into the home.

The release notes the deputy began a foot chase and made contact with one of the individuals, which led to a physical altercation that resulted in Burks' death.

Deputy searches

In an interview with BCI investigators, Zirneskie said when he ran the license plate of the vehicle, it came back mismatched, so he tried to pull the car over. After the individuals went into the house at 13324 Ohio 124, the deputy, who recalled reports taken on Burks in the past, said he was permitted to enter the house. Zirneskie told investigators he looked inside the house, but couldn't find anyone, so he looked outside, then returned inside the home to search again.

In multiple interviews with individuals in the house at the time of the incident, investigators learned one of the women who fled the vehicle reportedly went to take a shower, in an attempt to hide Burks in the bathroom.

When Zirneskie found Burks and the woman in the bathroom, an altercation ensued between Burks and the deputy, Zirneskie said. He described being tackled into the running shower water, the two fighting while he was "curled up like a pretzel" in the bathtub, and when Burks broke free, Zirneskie told investigators they got in another fight in the living room before Burks ran outside.

'The look in his eyes'

According to Zirneskie, Burks was running outside of the residence when he suddenly turned back around, heading toward the deputy. Zirneskie claimed Burks said, "I don't want to do this to you man," as he was running, which was why the deputy tried to use a stun device on the suspect. When that didn't dispel Burks, the deputy told investigators Burks got him into a headlock, and he'd attempted to shock the man against the skin before using his firearm as he began to lose consciousness.

When investigators asked Zirneskie why he fired his weapon, Zirneskie replied, "because I knew he wanted to kill me. I knew that he wasn't going back to jail, the look in his eyes when I had, when I had tased him, he wanted to not go back, and he was going to achieve that by any means necessary."

Five individuals, including two children, were taken from the home to the Pike County Sheriff's Office for questioning. Officials said no charges were filed.

Evidence analyzed

An evidence log for BCI shows officers took several items into evidence on Feb. 1, including Taser wire, a box containing a Taser probe and wires, a Glock-22 .40-caliber pistol, two magazines, and two spent bullets. About a month later, officials collected a third spent bullet from Burks' mother, who said she found it inside the trunk of the car parked near where the incident occurred.

Investigative notes indicate investigators were able to locate a bullet hole in the trunk of the vehicle closest to where the incident happened, and the path of the bullet was consistent to "having come from the area of the shooting."

According to the Montgomery County Coroner's report, Burks was struck twice, one bullet grazed his stomach, and the other fatal wound entered through his back and pierced his heart and both lungs. A toxicology report from the coroner's office indicated Burks had Gabapentin, a nerve pain medication, and marijuana in his system at the time of his death. Marijuana intoxication was listed as a contributing factor to his death on the certificate of death.

In addition to the gunshot wounds, the coroner's report said Burks' body had superficial injuries on his head and limbs, some which may have been from a Taser barb.

Interviews with multiple officers across several law enforcement agencies described Zirneskie as distraught as other officers arrived at the scene. Zirneskie was taken to Adena Pike Medical Center as a precaution and placed on paid administrative leave until the completion of the investigation.

Zirneskie's personnel file, obtained by The Gazette through a public records request, shows a few minor disciplinary issues and one citizen complaint, but no suspensions.

At the beginning of June, the case was presented to a Pike County grand jury, and the prosecutor's office declined to pursue any charges against Zirneskie. In a press release, Prosecutor Rob Junk said he concurred with BCI, who investigated the incident and concluded Zirneskie had discharged his weapon to "protect himself from harm."

How it unfolded

Documented radio traffic from Feb. 1 indicates Deputy Eric Zirneskie reported his attempt to make a traffic stop at 3:59 a.m. Fifteen minutes later, the deputy said a person hiding in the residence reference a possible warrant. At 4:15 a.m., Zirneskie reported shots fired and two minutes after that, he advised someone had attempted to choke him out, then shots were fired.

Nine minutes after Zirneskie initially stated shots were fired, another deputy informed Zirneskie on the radio he was seven minutes from being on scene.

At 4:46 a.m., dispatchers were advised to contact BCI and the Franklin County Sheriff's Office for an officer-involved shooting. About four hours later, the Pike County Coroner arrived on scene.