HARRISBURG--Harrisburg police shot and killed a driver early Thursday after the man allegedly accelerated his vehicle toward a uniformed officer.

The shooting that killed Albert Earl Morton, 31, occurred at 1:35 a.m. in a parking area of Hall Manor across from Row 34.

Albert Earl Morton Jr.

Police would not provide the age or years of police experience for the officer who killed Morton. That officer was placed on paid administrative leave, which is the routine policy after a police-involved shooting.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said county investigators will be reviewing the deadly use of force and whether Morton's use of the vehicle as a weapon justified the gunfire from the officer. He provided the "basic facts" that were known about the early morning shooting at an afternoon news conference.

According to Chardo:

Harrisburg police pulled over a vehicle driven by Morton about 12:45 a.m. in the 1400 block of Vernon Street for driving without headlights on. During that traffic stop, Morton allegedly sped away, hitting an officer in the leg as he fled. The officer was not hurt.

About 45 minutes later, officers again spotted the vehicle that had hit the officer and fled from the previous traffic stop. As patrol cars followed the vehicle, officers reportedly saw occupants throwing out drugs and drug paraphernalia from the windows of the moving car.

The car eventually stopped in the Hall Manor housing development and the passenger, Arthur L. Brothers, Jr., jumped out of the car and tried to climb over a fence.

Morton then accelerated toward the officer, police said, and the officer fired his gun at Morton, killing him.

The officer was alone at the immediate scene, but other officers were in the area, Chardo said. Officers from surrounding agencies also assisted at the scene after the shooting.

Authorities had not yet searched the car, Chardo said, so it was unclear whether there was a gun or any evidence inside the vehicle.

Chardo would not confirm whether they had identified any independent witnesses or whether the incident was recorded on the patrol car's dash camera.

The department tested four body cameras last year for 60 days but officers currently don't have body cameras to wear, Police Chief Thomas Carter said.

Morton had an outstanding arrest warrant for residential burglary, Chardo said. Police charged his passenger, Brothers, 31, with possession of cocaine base, possession of drug paraphernalia and tampering with physical evidence.

Brothers suffered a deep laceration when he was trying to climb the fence before he was arrested, Chardo said, but he was not hurt in the shooting.

The fatal police shooting marked the third in the capital city since December. Chardo said there was no pattern among the recent shootings.

Police fatally shot Ahmed El-Mofty, 51, on Dec. 22 after he fired at a series of different officers and exited his car with a gun in the 1700 block of Mulberry Street. Police believe it may have been a suicide-by-cop.

On Jan. 18, police fatally shot Kevin Sturgis, 31, of Philadelphia after he killed a deputy U.S. marshal, shot and wounded two other officers and fired at police as he tried to escape the block. The shootout occurred as a marshal's task force was at the home to serve an arrest warrant on Sturgis' girlfriend.