Anthony Jacob “AJ” Weber, a 16-year-old black male, was shot and killed by Los Angeles County Sheriff’s deputies Sunday, Feb. 4, in the 1200 block of West 107th Street in Westmont, according to Los Angeles County coroner’s records.

About 8 p.m., two deputies responded to a report of a young man in blue jeans and a black shirt pointing a handgun at a driver in the area. The caller, according to audio of the dispatch call, said he feared for his life.

While on foot, deputies encountered a 16-year-old boy who matched the description. They spotted a handgun tucked into his pants, according to statements by the Sheriff's Department.

When they ordered him not to move, the teen ignored the deputies' commands and took off running into an apartment complex known as a gang hangout, Sheriff's Capt. Chris Bergner has said previously said.

After entering a courtyard, the young man turned toward the deputies, prompting one of them to fire about 10 shots. The teenager was struck "several times" in the upper body, the department said in a statement.

After the shooting, the department said, neighbors immediately flooded the courtyard and the two deputies called for additional help to control the crowd as it swelled to 30 or 40 people.

Deputies believe the gun went missing during the commotion, Bergner has said.

The department is hoping to speak with more witnesses as it continues the investigation.

The shooting highlighted tensions between law enforcement and the community, some of whom accused the department of lying about whether the teenager had a gun.

Days after the shooting, Margarita Ortega stood in the courtyard of the apartment complex and told the teenager's father what she saw that night.

Ortega, 23, said she was in her bedroom when she heard a barrage of gunfire. She walked outside her door — only about 15 feet from the site of the shooting — and saw deputies standing near Weber's body, as his friends shouted "Give him CPR, give him CPR!"

"I don't know why they are saying there was like 40 people out here when there wasn't," she said. "Everybody was so terrified they stayed inside their house."

John Weber, Anthony's father, listened to Ortega with tears in his eyes. He described his son as a father to an infant daughter and said the teen had recently started attending a charter school in the area.

In his hand, he carried his son's ROTC uniform. Additional details about the shooting were not available from the coroner’s office because law enforcement has placed a security hold on the information, preventing it from being publicly released.

Photo: The memorial for Anthony Weber at the site of his shooting on West 107th Street. Credit: Marcus Yam, Los Angeles Times

Contact the Homicide Report. Follow @latimeshomicide on Twitter.