A Lewis and Clark County deputy was justified in shooting and killing a suicidal man in February near East Helena, a Helena jury unanimously concluded.

The six-person jury deliberated for an hour before reaching its decision following a coroner's inquest Monday.

Because the shooting involved a Lewis and Clark County deputy, Anaconda-Deer Lodge County Coroner Jessie Billquist-Jette presided over the inquest to avoid a potential conflict of interest. The Montana Department of Justice's Division of Criminal Investigation took the lead on investigating the Feb. 1 shooting.

According to court testimony, Andrew Scott Blythe, who was 29 at the time, shot 26-year-old Taylor Schnortz eight times with an AR-15 rifle just before midnight at a home on Casper Drive. Schnortz had come around a corner in his home while holding a black-powder .44 caliber pistol at his hip in what Blythe believed to be a firing position.

The person who called 911 said the man was bleeding from self-inflicted injuries and was suicidal. Deputies had negotiated with Schnortz for an hour and a half before Blythe fired the fatal rounds.

Schnortz was suffering a “psychotic break,” according to the woman living with him at the time. Schnortz had been sending the woman photographs of cuts he had made on his arm, causing her to fear for his safety, and he told her that he had a gun in his possession.

Blythe, Sgt. Uriah Wood and two other deputies spoke with Schnortz, trying to get him to relinquish his weapon and come with them to St. Peter’s Health in Helena. Schnortz did set his weapon down at one point, but retrieved it a few minutes later after he told officers that he had more weapons in his possession and refused to explain what they were.

The woman living in the home said Schnortz had been drinking, and that she and Schnortz had been arguing about his employment, according to testimony by Jeff Vittatoe, a Department of Criminal Investigation agent. Schnortz’s blood alcohol concentration was measured at 0.27, and THC was found in his system, according to a toxicology report entered into evidence during the inquest.

Vittatoe said the woman told the 911 operator that Schnortz was loading powder into the gun, but the gun was later found to be unloaded. The gun was operable, however.

Part of law enforcement training teaches officers to understand when to use deadly force, and to use a series of three risk-assessment questions to determine danger. Michael Joseph McCarthy, an instructor for the Montana Law Enforcement Academy, explained that officers have to determine whether someone has the ability or capability to harm them or another, the opportunity to do so, and the intent to harm someone.

For precedent, McCarthy referenced the Supreme Court case Elliott v. Leavitt, in which the Court decided “the Constitution does not require police to gamble with their lives in the face of a serious threat of harm.” McCarthy explained that in his duty as a use-of-force instructor, he sets his standard for the use of force to be what “a reasonable officer would have done under the totality of the circumstances without 20/20 hindsight.”

Because of the way the body responds to split-second stressful decisions, McCarthy said, an officer might continue pulling the trigger several times after the threat is no longer present.

McCarthy said a rifle “could certainly be a better choice” than a handgun in the Feb. 1 shooting. He said the use of deadly force was “proper," and that most other police officers would have reacted the same way as Blythe.

McCarthy also said a Taser would be less useful in a situation involving a person in a life-threatening situation, and that other nonlethal ways of subduing Schnortz would have been less effective than the use of a firearm by the police.

Two weeks prior, on Jan. 19, both Blythe and Cpl. Matthew Boudreau had responded to a domestic disturbance at Schnortz’s residence, removed him peacefully and brought him to another family member’s home. Blythe said he and Boudreau later learned that Schnortz had been in his bathroom with a gun, an unnoticed factor that Blythe referred to as "critically important."

Both deputies said Schnortz had been rational and easy to work with during the Jan. 19 incident, with Schnortz actually catching Budrow from falling on the ice when he was being dropped off at his family member’s home.

On Feb. 1, Boudreau said, Schnortz was acting “irrational” and being difficult to speak to and reason with. According to testimony from Blythe, Schnortz felt hopeless because he had recently lost his job and was a “working man,” which made the job loss devastating.

Schnortz did not want to go in a patrol vehicle and believed deputies were going to handcuff him and take him to jail on criminal charges. Sgt. Wood offered to take Schnortz in his patrol truck to St. Peter’s but, according to testimony from Blythe, Schnortz heard Wood’s offer as “trunk” and became more defensive after the miscommunication.

Sgt. Wood said that by the end of the event he felt that Schnortz had “decided what he wanted the outcome to be.”

Wood said Schnortz was “adamant” that he did not want to go to jail and told the court that he and other deputies reassured Schnortz “numerous times” that they just wanted to get him help. Wood said there was no possibility of leaving the home and disengaging from the negotiation because of the danger to neighbors and the deeply distraught woman on the scene.

Deputies eventually convinced Schnortz to trade the gun for a phone so he could speak with his father, and they called a Broadwater County deputy to go to Schnortz’s father’s house and get him on the phone. However, Schnortz came around the corner holding the gun and Blythe opened fire before the plan could be carried out.

Blythe warned Schnortz before firing his weapon multiple times, according to body camera footage and audio from Blythe’s own equipment.

Cpl. Boudreau said that when they first investigated Schnortz’s body, the gun was in his hand and his finger was on the trigger with the hammer cocked back, a statement that Sgt. Wood agreed with in his testimony. While law enforcement was negotiating with Schnortz, Boudreau said, he could hear a “clicking sound like a hammer on a revolver” coming from Schnortz’s direction, a sound that Sgt. Wood said he also heard while he was speaking with Schnortz.

Blythe was immediately removed from the scene and disarmed by deputy James Ward. Ward said Blythe was “in shock” after he fired on and killed Schnortz. Cpl. Jeff Stoltz said Blythe had been crying and was severely emotionally distressed immediately after the shooting.

Blythe was taken off active duty for several weeks after the shooting, but was reinstated before the coroner’s inquest after a use-of-force review was completed by the Lewis and Clark County Sheriff’s Office.