The 4th Judicial District Attorney's Office announced on Tuesday the use of deadly force by officers in a

of El Paso County Sheriff's Deputy Micah Flick and suspected car thief Manuel Zetina was justified.

District Attorney Dan May said the investigation shows the officers and bystander were all shot by the suspect prior to any officers firing their weapons.

May also clarified the officers involved in the shooting were not wearing clothing or gear that publicly identified them as law enforcement. This contradicts earlier reports from officials that the officers were easily identifiable as law enforcement.

May was visibly emotional as he discussed the shooting that robbed a family of their husband, father, son.

"This is a horrible tragedy that struck our community. ... You try to take all the precautions you can in the world, but in the end, it's a dangerous job."

He also expressed sorrow that an innocent bystander

Thomas Villanueva was rendered wheelchair-bound after the shooting left him paralyzed from the chest down.

"It's just horrible, that tragedy that happened to him. He's an innocent man just standing there. Nobody ever wanted to see this happen," May said.

The events of Feb. 5, 2018 began with an attempt at taking Zetina into custody. An auto theft task force comprised of El Paso County sheriff's deputies and Colorado Springs police officers had been tracking Zetina for a while in connection with a stolen vehicle and were going to make an arrest at the Murray Hill Apartments off Galley Road.

"He walked straight towards the deputies as they walked towards him, and as soon as Scott Stone [deputy injured in shooting] put his arms around him and said 'Police,' [Zetina] immediately shot. So it looks as if he may have known," May said in response to a question on whether Zetina knew he was being confronted by law enforcement.

May revealed Zetina used a scanner app on his phone to pick up police chatter.

"He was not using it at the time of this incident, but we can see that he had been using it in the past. ... He is someone who had been concerned about being followed by police before."

The investigation revealed Zetina likely fired six or more gunshots before officers fired back.

"Mr. Villanueva was shot by Mr. Zetina, and that is based on the fact that the type of ammunition Mr. Zetina was using was 9 mm fully-jacketed, which is meant to go through the body. This particular bullet has gone through his body; it is found very near him and it has his DNA on it.

"Micah Flick was also shot by Mr. Zetina; that particular bullet was never found but we found several circumstances that we felt demonstrated that that bullet did not come from friendly fire -- that bullet did come from Mr. Zetina. ... The coroner has indicated that it is close range, which means the gun was within inches of shooting Micah Flick. None of the officers were in that area at the time he went down so it is not possible for them to be within inches when that shot is fired.

" ... We believe that Mr. Zetina fired, shot everybody before a single officer returned fire, but keep in mind this happens in a matter of seconds -- this is very quick once it starts," May said.

The whole event may have taken no more than 10 seconds.

LIVE: Flick shooting ruled justified LIVE: The DA's office just announced the deadly shooting involving Deputy Micah Flick was justified. More info: http://www.kktv.com/content/news/Deadly-shooting-involving-Deputy-Micah-Flick-491406532.html Posted by KKTV 11 News on Tuesday, August 21, 2018

Flick was fatally wounded in a shootout while the Beat Auto Theft Through Law Enforcement task force was attempting to arrest Zetina on Feb. 5. Three other law enforcement officers and a civilian, Thomas Villanueva, were wounded in the same scuffle.

The 4th Judicial District Attorney's Office sent out the following Monday afternoon: