Updated at 10:30 a.m. with additional information.

BUNKER HILL • A man who had been chased by police crashed into a tree and nativity scene and died Thursday night in Bunker Hill, authorities say.

The Macoupin County coroner identified the man as Christopher E. Johnson, 32. Police say Johnson was from East Alton, although the coroner’s office said he was from Jerseyville.

Coroner Brad Targhetta pronounced Johnson dead at the scene of the crash, at East Warren and North Franklin streets in Bunker Hill. Targhetta said Johnson was alone in the vehicle.

Police said the car caught fire after the crash. An autopsy will be performed.

Before the crash, he outran police and tried to ram an oncoming patrol car driven by a sheriff’s deputy, police say.

Trooper Heath Bryan with the Illinois State Police said the incident began about 8 p.m. when a trooper tried to stop Johnson for a traffic violation. Bryan didn’t say what the violation was or where the trooper tried to stop Johnson.

Bryan said the car took off. The trooper “terminated the stop” and didn’t pursue Johnson, Bryan said.

Minutes later, a Macoupin County sheriff’s deputy was listening to information on his police radio describe the fleeing car. The deputy was driving on Mile Station Road, near the Shipman cutoff, when he noticed an oncoming car speed toward him.

“He tried to ram the deputy head-on,” Sheriff Shawn Kahl said.

The car came into the deputy’s lane, and the deputy had to drive into a ditch to avoid being struck, Kahl said.

The deputy got the car out of the ditch and began following Johnson. He saw Johnson’s car almost struck an oncoming passenger car, too.

“That’s when the deputy decided it was too dangerous” to keep chasing Johnson, Kahl said. “It got very dangerous once he got close to Bunker Hill. The guy was driving erratically, and so the deputy terminated the chase.”

Once in Bunker Hill, Johnson lost control of the 2002 Pontiac sedan and struck a nativity scene and then a tree. The car caught fire.

Pastor Jeremy Wood of First Congregational Church, 105 South Bunker Street, where the nativity scene was set up, said bales of hay had been used to form the stable, and they took the brunt of the damage.

Wood told congregants on Facebook: “There has been a terrible accident. A man fleeing police sped at high speeds through Bunker Hill, crashed through our nativity set, and hit the tree in the corner of our church yard.”

“We care very deeply for all those affected by this,” Wood told the Post-Dispatch.

Kahl said neither the deputy nor anyone else in passing cars or on the street had been injured in the incident.

“Kind of a wild ordeal,” Kahl said.