JERSEY CITY, N.J. (CBSNewYork) -- Jersey City police were looking for two people Tuesday night, after an out-of-control vehicle crashed and killed a man waiting at a bus stop.

As CBS2's Valerie Castro reported, authorities said the stolen sport-utility vehicle killed a man waiting for a bus. A 16-year-old was being questioned late Tuesday.

Confirming that the pedestrian that was fatally struck by a vehicle this morning in Jersey City has been identified as a male in his 30's. The fatality occurred in the immediate area of Communipaw Ave & Kennedy Blvd. Continue to avoid this area as the police investigate. — ProsecutorSuarezHCPO (@HCPOProsecutor) January 23, 2018

The crash happened around 4:50 Tuesday morning. The out-of-control SUV slammed into the intersection of Communipaw Avenue and Kennedy Boulevard in Jersey City.

The victim in the incident died instantly after he was hit. On Tuesday night, CBS2 has learned the victim may never even have realized what was about to happen.

The Hudson County Prosecutor's office said police were trying to pull over the stolen vehicle, which was seen speeding and running traffic lights when it slammed into a light post and crashed into a bus shelter.

Umar King, 33, was standing inside waiting for the bus. He wound up thrown down the street and was killed on impact.

Umar King was struck and killed while standing in a bus stop in Jersey City on Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018. (Credit: Umar King)

A collection of candles paid tribute to King's memory late Tuesday.

King's friend, who is hearing-impaired, said King was also hard of hearing and likely did not even know the car was careening toward him.

"The car -- too fast, boom," King's friend said. "Can't hear; not hearing."

"I just saw a person on the floor and that's it," added Carmen Rodriguez of Jersey City. "It was sad."

After the impact, people inside the car were caught on video as they got out and took off running down Kennedy Boulevard.

Prosecutors said the stolen vehicle was speeding and ignoring traffic signals. Police were dispatched to chase it.

Not all of them got away.

"There were three individuals in the suspect vehicle. They fled," said Hudson County Prosecutor Esther Suarez. "One individual was caught, a male 16-year-old. He was detained for questioning."

The crash destroyed the bus shelter and left debris everywhere.

"Now we don't even have a bus stop. They took it all. I just feel bad for the family," Rodriguez said.

The entire corner was ripped apart, and debris was everywhere. Pieces of the bus shelter were thrown in the street and on the sidewalk, and a traffic light was dismantled and bent.

The Prosecutor's office said it is believed the officers did as they were trained when trying to stop the vehicle.

"It appears at first glance – again, this is all investigation – that officer was following protocol," Suarez said. "That too is under investigation."

Police late Tuesday were still searching for the other two people seen in the video running away.

Another driver was also hit by the speeding car. That victim was taken to Jersey City Medical Center with minor injuries and has since been released.