Flagstaff police on Monday released body-camera footage from a police shooting Friday night that left a 78-year-old man dead.

Police identified Flagstaff resident John Hamilton as the man who allegedly brandished a gun at officers and refused to drop the weapon after several minutes of instruction by officers on scene.

In the footage released Monday, officers Daniel Beckwith and Travis Rowden can be heard telling the man to drop a silver object they described as a handgun.

Hamilton was swinging the weapon around and pointing it at the officers, Flagstaff police said.

Beckwith repeatedly asked Hamilton to drop the gun for nearly three minutes before firing, the footage from his body camera shows. A shadowy figure can be seen in the distance moving.

"That is a gun. Drop it," Beckwith can be heard shouting in the video. "Drop it. Stop swinging it around."

A few seconds later, he warned the man that he would fire if the gun was pointed at an officer again.

"If you bring that up one more time, I will shoot you," he said. "Drop it. Drop the gun."

Beckwith then can be seen and heard firing several shots from a rifle he has trained on the man.

The initial call came in to Flagstaff police just before 9 p.m. Friday from a woman who said a man with a gun confronted her in the 700 block of West Coconino Avenue.

Police responded and encountered an armed man who fit the description, Flagstaff police said in a news release.

Hamilton was pronounced dead at the scene, according to police. No one else was injured.

Beckwith and Rowden have been placed on paid administrative leave pending the results of an investigation, officials said, which is standard procedure.

Several other officers also responded to the call.

Additional footage from the incident, including other body-camera video and the 911 call tape, were posted by Flagstaff police online for public view.

READ MORE:

Snow falls in northern Arizona, more expected into the week

Arizona legislator kills bill that would have given female inmates free feminine products

Grand Canyon helicopter crash: Aircraft will be taken to Phoenix for examination