The Indiana State Police has investigated the events and circumstances surrounding the February 14, 2018, police action shooting involving three Wabash County Sheriff’s Deputies and one Huntington County Sheriff’s Deputy. The Investigation was submitted to the Wabash County Prosecutor’s Office for review.

Wabash County Prosecutor William C. Hartley, Jr. reviewed the ISP investigation regarding the police action shooting which occurred on County Road 400 North between County Roads 400 and 500 East in Wabash County, Indiana. After a thorough examination of the ISP reports, statements of civilian and police witnesses, interviews conducted of the four officers directly involved in the shooting, the autopsy report, toxicology report, photographs (there are no car or body cam videos that depict the shooting), ISP crime lab reports, and the use of force policies for the Wabash and Huntington County Sheriff’s Departments, the totality of the evidence establishes this incident as a legally justifiable shooting by law enforcement.

On February 14, 2018, at approximately 1:44pm, Huntington County dispatch received a call of a residential burglary in progress near Andrews. The homeowner advised he could see someone in his home by using his home security system and cameras. The decedent, Travis D. Tucker (age 29), burglarized this residence and took, among other items, a shotgun and thousands of rounds of ammunition. Andrews Town Marshall Austin Bullock responded to the residence and found Mr. Tucker running out of the garage to a pickup truck (later determined to be stolen) backed up to the garage door. Marshall Bullock drew his firearm and ordered the subject to show him his hands. While Mr. Tucker quietly accelerated nearly striking Marshall Bullock. Mr. Tucker fled that location and was able to elude law enforcement for approximately 2 1/2 hours until he was spotted by civilian witnesses in Wabash County.

At approximately 4:11pm, law enforcement received a tip as to the location of the suspect. Law enforcement officers from Wabash and Huntington counties made initial contact with Mr. Tucker in Wabash County on 400 North. As Wabash County Deputy Corbin Dawes arrived, he observed Mr. Tucker out of the truck and in possession of a long firearm pointed in his general direction. While other officers approached, Mr. Tucker got back into the truck with the firearm and drove in reverse into a field. Officers from Wabash and Huntington counties entered the field on foot and in vehicles and approached the truck after it came to a stop. A couple officers took-up positions directly in front of the truck and others were positioned on the driver’s side. After numerous requests and commands to exit the truck and show his hands, Mr. Tucker put the pickup truck into drive, revved his engine, and began accelerating towards the officers on foot directly in front of him. At that point Chief Deputy Chris Newton from the Huntington County Sheriff’s Department, Deputy Steve Hicks, Deputy Corbin Dawes, and Deputy Karsten Kersey, all of the Wabash County Sheriff’s Department, discharged their firearms at Mr. Tucker. Mr. Tucker was struck and pronounced dead at the scene. An autopsy later found that Mr. Tucker had several drugs in his system including Methamphetamine, Opiates, and marijuana.

Indiana Code 35-41 3-2(c) provides in part: . . . “a person is justified in using deadly force and does not have a duty to retreat if the person reasonably believes the the force is necessary to prevent serious bodily injury to the person or a third person or the commission of a forcible felony. No person in this state shall be placed in legal jeopardy of any kind whatsoever for protecting the person or a third person by reasonable means necessary”.

After a thorough review of this case, it is clear that these officers were justified in using deadly force as it is reasonable to believe that the force was necessary to prevent serious bodily injury to themselves or the other officers in the immediate area. Accordingly, no criminal charges will be filed in this matter.