Sherry Greenfield

sgreenfield@herald-mail.com

INWOOD, W.Va — Two deputies with the Berkeley County (W.Va.) Sheriff's Department have been placed on administrative leave with pay after fatally shooting a man early Saturday morning at the Coco Loco club.

Officers were responding to the nightclub at 602 Pilgrim St. in Inwood after a report came in at 2:35 a.m. of multiple altercations inside and outside the establishment, Berkeley County Prosecutor Catie Wilkes Delligatti said Saturday afternoon at a news conference.

When officers arrived on the scene, they discovered a man shooting a gun in the club parking lot as patrons were exiting the building, Delligatti said. The man was then fatally shot by deputies.

The man's body was taken to the West Virginia Medical Examiner's Office in Charleston, W.Va., where an autopsy will be performed Tuesday, according to a news release. The name of the man is being withheld pending conclusive identification and notification of family members.

The only injury at the scene was a club employee, who received a nonlife-threatening wound after being shot by the male suspect, Berkeley County Sheriff Curtis E. Keller said at the news conference.

He was taken to Winchester (Va.) Medical Center, where he is being treated.

Police didn't release the name of the individual who was shot.

The two deputies placed on administrative leave weren't injured, Delligatti said.

Their names are being withheld, Keller said.

Multiple agencies responded to the scene, including West Virginia State Police, Jefferson County (W.Va.) Sheriff's Department, Martinsburg (W.Va.) Police Department and medics from Frederick County, Va.

The Berkeley County Sheriff's Department and the Eastern Panhandle Drug and Violent Crimes Task Force are investigating the incident.

Keller said the investigation could take months.

"The sheriff and the prosecutor's office take this matter seriously," Delligatti said.

The sheriff's office is asking patrons of the club to email any video footage of the events before and after the shooting to Sgt. T.M. Snyder at tsnyder@berkeleywv.org.

Any additional information also may be emailed to Snyder.