Sun-News Reports

Las Cruces Sun-News

LAS CRUCES - The suspect in a homicide Friday was killed Saturday evening following a pursuit by Las Cruces police. He was shot multiple times by at least one unnamed officer, according to a press release by the Las Cruces Police Department.

Nathaniel Montoya, 23, of Las Cruces was wanted for questioning following a murder Friday night in the 2300 block of Sambrano Avenue.

Saturday, police spotted a van matching the description of Montoya’s, and made a traffic stop, according to the press release. Montoya attempted to flee, and a high-speed chase began.

The purple van progressed west on Lohman Avenue and entered the parking lot of the Valero Corner Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave., at a high rate of speed.

The van, driven by Montoya, struck a parked vehicle in the convenience store parking lot, ending the chase, police said. A 33-year-old pedestrian was struck and taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries. Several vehicles in the parking lot were also damaged, police said.

At least one LCPD officer fired several rounds and struck Montoya, police said. On a brief video posted on a community website, you can hear 12 shots fired in quick succession, followed by a 13th moments later.

Montoya was pronounced dead on the scene.

A black partition seen in the Valero parking lot blocked off the view in the vicinity of the van throughout much of the evening.

A video posted to the Las Cruces Community Watch Facebook page recorded 13 gunshots at the Valero.

The names of the officers involved in the incident are being withheld until an investigation by a multi-agency task force is completed, authorities said. The task force includes representatives from the New Mexico State Police, Doña Ana County Sheriff’s Office, New Mexico State University Police and LCPD.

Las Cruces authorities blocked off traffic on both Lohman Avenue and Amador Avenues adjacent to the Valero store, forcing drivers to detour around the scene for hours.

Police have not yet identified the 29-year-old man who was killed in Friday’s altercation.

More:Shots fired, three hospitalized after police pursuit

Authorities investigate officer-involved shooting in Doña Ana County

Las Cruces police investigate after officer shoots pit bull

Correction: A name has been corrected from an initial publication of this article. It should have stated "Montoya."