UPDATE 2/16/18 @ 10 p.m.

A mother is grieving after her son was shot and killed by U.S. Marshals Friday afternoon on First Creek Road near Sissonville.

The U.S. Marshals Service says they were trying to arrest the suspect, who'd escaped from a halfway house.

They issued a news release Friday night with very few new details, and there's no word yet on whether the suspect was armed at the time of the shooting.

The family tells us the man who was shot was 39-year-old Odrey Paul Reed.

Reed's mother, Connie Burdette, says she was afraid this was going to happen, and Thursday night she tried unsuccessfully to talk her son into turning himself in.

"He had 82 days left in the halfway house, and he would've been free," Burdette told WSAZ.

Burdette says marshals came to her house in Sissonville Thursday night trying to find him.

"The federal marshal looked at me and said, 'You better get ahold of him tonight,' " Burdette said, "and I said 'I will if I can,' and she said 'if you don't, we're going to hunt him down like a dog and kill him.' Those were her very words."

She says she talked with her son on Messenger Thursday night, trying to convince him to give himself up.

When asked if she knew why her son didn't want to turn himself in, Burdette answered, "He said they were mean to him at the halfway house. He said they abused him and were mean to him."

Burdette says her son was shot outside his brother's home.

"My son lost his life for nothing, for 82 days," she said. "That's wrong."

Burdette says her son had been working at a dollar store in Charleston.

ORIGINAL STORY

Multiple law enforcement officers tell WSAZ there has been an officer-involved shooting Friday in Kanawha County.

A law enforcement source tells WSAZ that U.S. Marshals shot a person near Sissonville and the person has died. It happened outside a home along First Creek Road.

Kanawha County Sheriff's deputies at the scene have confirmed the fatality.

Family members tell WSAZ the victim's name is Odrey Paul Reed and he was 39.

A spokesperson with the U.S. Marshals Service tell us no officers were injured in the shooting incident.

Deputies tell us the scene is near the Haines Branch exit.

We are working to confirm more information. Keep clicking WSAZ for the latest.