As Robert Hollie moved the body of his ex-wife out of the house they once shared as a married couple, along a darkened street of modest homes facing Three Mile Creek in North West Mobile, he probably didn't think he would kill again that night.

After placing the lifeless body of Fonda Poellnitz, 58, in the gutter about 100 feet from where police believe he killed her, Hollie, 72, fled the scene in the same car that had taken the couple to church earlier in the evening.

He then drove eight minutes to the run-down home he often used after the couple divorced in summer 2015, and the location that would claim another two lives in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Mobile Police Officer Justin Billa, responding to reports that Poellnitz's body had been discovered, was dispatched to Hollie's home to investigate. As he was establishing a police cordon, he was struck by a bullet fired by Hollie, who had barricaded himself inside the property.

As the Mobile's SWAT team dealt with the situation, attempting to negotiate with Hollie, Billa was rushed to University of South Alabama medical center where it was quickly announced that he had died.

While there is no apparent motive for why Hollie killed his wife, the couple did share a tumultuous and difficult past, one marred by death threats and violence, according to neighbors, the daughter of Poellnitz, and court documents. However, it was the death of Billa, 27, father of a 1-year-old child, that caused an outpouring of grief among leaders in Alabama and Mobile.

"Officer Billa's death affects more than just the Mobile Police Department," said Mayor Sandy Stimpson during a press conference at the Mobile Police Department Headquarters Wednesday afternoon. "The death of a first responder in the line of duty is a loss that affects the entire city. This morning we grieve for the family and friends of Officer Billa who have lost a father, a son, a husband and a trusted colleague. I offer my prayers in addition to the full support of the city as we deal with this tragedy."

Governor Kay Ivey said in a statement that Alabama "was mourning the loss of one of our own Mobile Police Officers" and added "my prayers are with his wife, young child and the city of Mobile."

Around the state, flags are being flown at half-staff to commemorate Billa.

Mobile Police Chief Lawrence Baptiste, who had stood next to Stimpson at the press conference, said that police departments across the state and country had been in touch to offer condolences. He also commented on Billa's excellent record since joining the department in January 2016, and asked that people in the community not forget the Poellnitz family.

At the scene of where Poellitz's body was found, candles, balloons and cuddly bears sat on the road as passersby stopped to give their respects. Back at the home where Poellnitz lived, her daughter Octavia Poellnitz, 38, stood in the street crying, confused about what had just happened to her mother.

"Why is my momma gone?" asked Octavia during an interview with AL.com. She stood next to her daughter Santavia Poellnitz, 21, who lost both her grandfather and grandmother in the incident. "We will never know why he killed her. She took her last breath while in my brother's arms, and now my daughter has lost her grandparents."

Mobile Police department confirmed that law enforcement found Hollie dead in his home after gaining access. officials said that he killed himself.

While Hollie's criminal record appears to be clean, aside from some driving infractions, there is anecdotal evidence of Hollie of having a violent history.

Octavia Poellnitz told AL.com that Hollie had threatened to kill her mother in the past, and was an abusive figure in their lives. A neighbour at Hollie's Avondale Court address confirmed that the couple were abusive to each other, but denied there had been physical violence.



"They were always on and off, but I never saw any violence or nothing with them," said Lacrisia Hawthorne. "But I know that he had problems with one of her grown sons, and he said that he would shoot him if he needed to protect himself."

Despite questions over Hollie's temprement, it was he who had a protective order out against his ex-wife. Court documents show that Hollie filed the order in March 2015, claiming that his then-wife threw a tin can at his head and threatened to "shoot me and drag me out of the house." The claim added that she would not be the one doing the shooting. Nearly three years later it appears Hollie did that to his wife.

The couple's divorce was finalized months later. Despite the seperation, Poellnitz's daughter said that they continued to live together and attend church. "They were at church the same day he killed her," said Octavia Poellnitz. "People at church didn't know they were divorced."

While not living with ex-wife, Hollie slept on a broken and dirty couch in his three-bedroom house. While evidence of refurbishment attempts were clear, the house was in bad shape. With no running water, buckets of urine and dishwater were out in the open. Piles of clothes and furniture were in the middle of each room, and the floorboards were bare. Bottles of medication were also present in various rooms.

And yet it was here, in his barely habitable home, that Hollie fled after murdering his wife, and where he would ultimately kill himself. And where Mobile would lose its 19th officer, its first since 2012.

And while she fought hard to contain the tears as she described the pain that her and her daughter felt after losing their mother and grandmother, Octavia Poellnitz summoned the courage to praise Billa's service and prayed for the wife and child he left behind.