The man suspected of fatally shooting a Prince George's County police officer was set to be rounded up in a 'sweep' about 12 hours after the killing occurred.

The man suspected of fatally shooting a Prince George’s County police officer was set to be rounded up in a “sweep” about 12 hours after the killing occurred. That’s according to Angela Alsobrooks, the Prince George’s County State’s Attorney.

Glenn Tyndell had three outstanding warrants—two for assault and one for theft. All were related to domestic issues at the home, Alsobrooks said.

The Prince George’s County Sheriff’s Office had been actively seeking to get Tyndell in custody since January. Deputies were actively surveying his mother’s house in attempts to find him.

Deputies also spoke with Tyndell on the phone and tried to convince him to turn himself in. He refused.

With all of their attempts not working out, a warrant task force added Tyndell to a “sweep” list. It’s something the sheriff’s office puts together a couple times a month, Alsobrooks explained.

Deputies were going to try to put Tyndell in custody Wednesday night.

However, about 12 hours earlier, Tyndell was accused of shooting PGPD Corporal Mujahid Ramzziddin.

The officer stepped in to protect his neighbor—a woman who came to him for help when she felt threatened by Tyndell with a shotgun.

Cpl. Ramzziddin died at the scene.

PGPD officers found and pursued Tyndell in Fort Washington, Md. Witnesses said he shot at officers. The officers returned fire, killing Tyndell.

WUSA9 dug into Tyndell’s past and found a court history that dates back years.

Court records reveal the 37-year-old was named in multiple domestic violence cases that led to at least four protective orders filed against him, just in Maryland alone. The most recent was from June of last year.

In a news conference the night of the Cpl. Ramzziddin’s murder, police said Tyndell’s ex-wife and estranged wife had both sought protection from the courts. Police also said he was involved with another individual.

The suspected gunman was named in 27 court cases in Maryland, but many of them were never prosecuted.