Investigators remain tight-lipped about a February incident in which a Montgomery police officer shot and killed a 21-year-old man.

Three people in total, including a police officer, were shot during a series of events that stemmed from a "subject shot" call on Feb. 21.

More:3 shot, including officer, in Montgomery; 1 dead

Due to the officer-involved nature of the incident, the State Bureau of Investigation took over the investigation the same day.

The SBI has not returned multiple phone calls and requests for comment on the status of the investigation.

Pastor Ed Nettles of Freewill Baptist Church this week identified the deceased as Lonnie Smith Jr.

MPD last week said the officer-involved shooting victim was 21.

The MPD officer, who has not yet been identified, was placed on administrative leave last week. Authorities said this is normal protocol in any officer-involved shooting situation.

More:Officer involved in fatal Montgomery shooting placed on leave

MPD Capt. Regina Duckett said Tuesday the officer remains on leave and there is currently no information on when the leave will end. The MPD has deferred other questions about the incident, including a question about the circumstances that led to the initial shooting, to the SBI.

The situation began around 1:49 p.m. on a Wednesday afternoon, when MPD responded to a "subject shot" call and found a man suffering from a gunshot wound.

There, officers encountered a "fleeing, armed suspect" near Hill and Jordan streets. MPD says Smith fired at officers, striking one. He was subsequently shot and killed by an MPD officer.

Both the MPD officer and initial shooting victim, who has not been identified, have been released from the hospital.

The suspect's weapon was recovered at the scene.

Smith's father is a member of Nettles' church, and the pastor has spoken to the family every day since the shooting. The family plans to hold services for Smith on Saturday.

Nettles said though it is a difficult time for Smith's family, they have expressed "no issue" with the investigation.

"They’re mourning," Nettles said of the family. "They ask people to pray for them, to pray for their strength on Saturday."

The moments before the shooting were captured on Freewill Baptist's security camera system, Nettles said.

"His father saw the video, saw where his son engaged in the officers and saw the chase between the church up to Jordan Street," Nettles said.

It is typical to bring in an outside agency any time a law enforcement uses lethal force.

"You can't bifurcate those two: It's one investigation with two separate pieces," Mayor Todd Strange said last week. "We'll provide them with any evidence or information we might have relative to the first situation."

Ethel Dillard, 62, told the Montgomery Advertiser she was in her nearby home when she heard the “pow, pow, pow” of gunshots. Dillard estimated she heard 15 to 20 shots fired over a period of 10 to 15 minutes.

Dillard said people in the area are afraid to call police when an incident does occur, because it will be known that they talked to police.

“I can’t call. I’m scared to call,” she said.