EVANSVILLE, Ind. – An imitation handgun led to the fatal police shooting last month in Evansville, according to city police.

Douglas Kemp, 58, was shot multiple times by an Evansville Police officer after he was pulled over for speeding and allegedly pulled out what looked like a Beretta handgun during the traffic stop.

After further investigation, police determined the gun was not a real Beretta but an airsoft pistol that shoots BBs. EPD spokesman Sgt. Jason Cullum showed the weapon and pointed out the orange tip meant to indicate it was an airsoft gun had been removed and other safety indicators were covered with marker.

Evansville Police Department released body camera footage Friday from the night of the shooting on Feb. 23. Cullum identified the two officers involved in the traffic stop as Officer Jesse Montank, hired last year and completing field training, and Officer Samuel SeDoris, a field training officer hired by EPD in 2011.

Kemp was stopped near the intersection of Covert Avenue and Hicks Drive after dark on Feb. 23.

More:Coroner called to 'police action' shooting

More:EPD officer fatally shoots person during traffic stop

The body cam footage shows Montank approaching Kemp’s car and asking him to turn off the vehicle, which Kemp refuses to do. SeDoris’ body cam video shows he approaches on the other side of the car and scans the inside.

Kemp then namedrops two EPD officers, one recently retired, and tells Montank to call them and let him go.

“No, I’m not going to let you go,” Montank says in the video.

“Yes you are,” Kemp says. “Sir, you have no choice.”

SeDoris calls for another squad car and tells Montank to be careful, saying he sees a knife on the floor. SeDoris examines the car for about 15 more seconds and then tells Montank to put Kemp in handcuffs, repeating “cuff him” multiple times. Montank orders Kemp to get out of the car.

At this point, Cullum said, SeDoris saw what he thought was a real handgun on the driver’s seat under Kemp’s leg. Kemp’s hands were free until he was told to get out of the car, which is when he allegedly reached for the weapon.

SeDoris yells “Drop the gun!” at Kemp twice and then fires at Kemp less than five seconds later.

Kemp died of multiple gunshot wounds to the torso, according to the Vanderburgh County Coroner’s Office. He was the only person in the car at the time.

Both officers were put on paid administrative leave for three days, which is standard EPD procedure, and have returned to work. Cullum said the internal investigation was complete, and investigators determined Montank and SeDoris did not violate department policy.

The gunfire during officers’ encounter with Kemp was considered reasonable, Cullum said, partly because of red flags like Kemp being uncooperative with officers and reaching for the weapon while getting out of the car.

“It wasn’t just the fact that it was present, it was that Mr. Kemp went from empty hands and verbally noncompliant to putting this gun in his hand before exiting the car,” Cullum said.

Even though the replica gun Kemp was accused of grabbing during the encounter fires BBs, Cullum said, it could be considered a deadly weapon “when you couple it with the realistic look and the behavior of the person that has it … whether it can fire a regular projectile or not.”

“If you display a firearm, real or replica, in a manner that a reasonable officer in a similar situation views as an imminent threat, they’re going to take action,” he said.

More on replica guns:Teen accused of firing BB gun at Fall Festival

Video:Drone footage of flooding in Henderson County

Construction:Downtown Evansville to get new YMCA