CASPER, Wyo. — The family of a man shot by Casper police says he was carrying a toy sword and didn't pose a threat that required deadly force, contradicting police accounts.

Douglas Oneyear, 36, was shot and killed by two police officers shortly before midnight on Feb. 25 after police encountered him on 15th Street holding a sword. On Thursday, police released gas station surveillance video and 911 calls regarding Oneyear's erratic behavior made in the hour before his death. Police also released dashcam video showing the two officers shooting five rounds, killing Oneyear.

Prosecutors cleared both officers involved in the shooting. But Oneyear's family says police could have resolved the situation without killing him.

"He wasn’t some sword swinging maniac who, as our new police chief put it, left his officers no other option but to kill him," Todd Hambrick, an attorney representing the family, wrote in a statement to the Star-Tribune.

Chief Keith McPheeters on Thursday denied that the sword was a toy and showed images of a sword that appeared to depict a sharpened edge.

In a statement sent Friday to the Star-Tribune, Hambrick wrote that Oneyear was using the sword as a walking stick when he went to the Loaf 'N Jug. The sword was a replica of one used in "The Immortals," a 2011 film. It had a rounded tip and was completely dull, Hambrick wrote.

Hambrick wrote that Oneyear acted erratically and became agitated but remaining fixated on cigarettes during the Loaf 'N Jug encounter.

In video footage released by police, Oneyear leans over a cashier, breaks a machine with the sword and follows the woman around the store. The security camera footage was recorded without sound, so it is unclear what, if anything, Oneyear or the cashier said. The woman called 911 after the incident and told a dispatcher that Oneyear threatened to kill her, according to recording of the call released by police.

According to Hambrick, Oneyear was agitated after apparently becoming tangled in the cables of lottery machines.

"So he poked THEM with his toy sword, had a few more words with the clerk, who handled him perfectly and clearly did not need to kill him, and left," Hambrick wrote.

Oneyear was dragging the sword behind him when officers encountered him on his way home from the gas station, Hambrick wrote. Oneyear kept the sword "at his side" when he was shot and killed, the lawyer says.

Oneyear was the father of three children and was diagnosed with "mental difficulties," according to Hambrick. Hambrick did not specify the nature of the difficulties. Hambrick wrote that Oneyear was not "high on some bad drug" when he died.

After showing the video footage on Thursday, McPheeters emphasized the need for mental illness awareness and treatment during a press conference. He later declined to say whether Oneyear had ever been diagnosed with a mental illness, citing the dead man’s privacy.

The chief said Oneyear was under the influence of both illicit and prescription drugs when he died, but did not name specific drugs.

Police could have pepper sprayed or tackled, rather than shot Oneyear, Hambrick wrote.

The attorney wrote that winds would not have affected the efficacy of pepper spray, citing the close proximity of Oneyear to officers. He dismissed McPheeters' contention that Oneyear's clothing would have rendered a taser ineffective, saying Oneyear was wearing a t-shirt and open hooded sweatshirt.

"There was no need to kill Doug Oneyear," Hambrick wrote. "The City and the Chief-of-Police are rationalizing a shooting that killed the father of 3 little girls and son of two lovingly devoted parents."

The Natrona County District Attorney's Office declined to charge the two officers, Jonathan Schlager and Cody Meyers, who shot Oneyear. They have returned to duty.

A review of Natrona County District Court records indicated Monday morning that Oneyear's family has not taken legal action regarding his death.