The Maricopa County Attorney's Office cleared two Gilbert police officers of criminal wrongdoing in connection with the fatal shooting of a 37-year-old man who pointed a rifle at the officers, according to a statement from town police Monday.

Officers Troy Vernon and Christoph Putton fatally shot Joshua Kinnard in February outside his house after the man grabbed a rifle from his truck and pointed it at the officers, police said in the statement.

Police were called to a home in the 3900 block of East Encinas Avenue Feb. 26 on reports of a man acting erratically, police said. For about 25 minutes, officers spoke with Kinnard, a detention officer with the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office who had been on medical leave.

Sheriff's officials previously confirmed Kinnard was a detention officer assigned to Inmate Medical Services and had worked there for six years.

Body-cam video released by Gilbert police

Body camera footage released by the department on Monday showed officers initially making contact with Kinnard in a backyard pool.

Kinnard was combative with officers and repeatedly told them to leave the home, the footage showed.

His fiancee, identified later as Maggie Jones, pleaded with Kinnard to get help and told officers he had taken some pills earlier that day.

Kinnard repeatedly declined to speak with the officers.

Jones gathered items for her children, the footage showed, and eventually left the home with the two officers, leaving only Kinnard remaining inside.

Jones was speaking with Vernon when Kinnard came out of the home and retrieved the rifle, according to police.

Kinnard ignored orders to drop the gun, and both Vernon and Putton fired several shots, footage showed.

About half a dozen shots were fired, the footage showed.

Footage then shows an unresponsive Kinnard lying on the ground.

Jones is heard yelling for the officers to help him and describing blood coming from Kinnard's head.

Vernon was the first officer to begin administering CPR, with Putton relieving him after a few minutes and continuing life-saving efforts, footage showed.

The investigation began immediately, with officers working to search the area and get Jones, her children and a friend present at the time of the shooting to a secure location.

"I was supposed to marry that man," Jones is heard telling an officer at one point in the footage. "We were supposed to be a family. I don't know how I'm going to survive this."

"I've been through so much. I don't know how I'm going to survive."

Footage showed Jones crying and telling the officer that she was scared of being a single mother to her young children.

She told the officer that she had seen bullets strike his head.

"Why is God doing this to me? Why did God make me see that?" she asked at one point.

Details on the shooting also released

According to a report released by Gilbert police, Jones told officers Kinnard texted her the night before the shooting that he would kill himself if she didn't come home.

When she called police, she said Kinnard had taken some pills and jumped into the pool, the police report said.

Kinnard denied to responding officers that he threatened to kill himself or that taking pills and jumping into the pool was a suicide attempt.

In her interview with police, Jones told officers that Kinnard had been under a lot of stress and had expressed that he was depressed and angry on at least one occasion, according to the police report. Part of the stress, according to Jones, came from the type of work he did as a detention officer, the report said.

She told police they met on a dating site four years ago and they had a two-year-old daughter together. The couple lived together at a home Kinnard had bought four months earlier with benefits he received from the Department of Veterans Affairs, the police report says.

Jones also said Kinnard had been a Marine for four and a half years, but left the military 13 years before, the report said.

READ MORE: