An off-duty U.S. Border Patrol agent was allegedly being attacked when he shot and killed a man in Socorro last month, the El Paso County Sheriff's Office said Tuesday.

Sheriff's officials said that the deadly-shooting case will be referred to the El Paso District Attorney's Office to determine if criminal charges will be filed.

Agent Luis Chavez allegedly shot and killed Juan Daniel Jacques in the early morning of Jan. 14 at a home in the 300 block of Melendez Drive, sheriff's officials said.

Juan Daniel's last name is spelled Jaquez on posts by relatives on social media.

The two men grew up together and had been friends since childhood, family members told Channel 26-KINT.

More:Off-duty Border Patrol agent involved in fatal shooting in Socorro, officials say

Criminal negligent homicide charge dismissed against man who kicked car's taillight

Lawsuit claims El Paso police used excessive force against mentally ill man

An investigation by sheriff's detectives found that Chavez was allegedly "attacked" by Jacques and "struck multiple times by a metal object," sheriff's spokeswoman Chris Acosta said in an email Tuesday.

"Agent Chavez fired his duty weapon at Mr. Jacques who died of gunshot wounds," Acosta said.

Socorro police found Jacques, 33, shot to death when officers responded to a call of an aggravated assault in progress at about 4 a.m. on Jan. 14, sheriff's officials said.

Sheriff's officials had previously said that detectives were looking into the possibility of self-defense in the shooting, which officials said was not linked to Chavez's work as a federal agent.

Chavez has not been charged in the case.

A spokeswoman for the El Paso District Attorney's Office said that the case is being reviewed and it will go before a grand jury to determine if criminal charges will be filed.

More:CBP memo details investigation, suggests Border Patrol Agent Rogelio Martinez died in fall

Home invasion suspect arrested in Border Patrol agent freeway shooting

Details revealed in Border Patrol agent's death

Relatives of Jacques told KINT that they seek justice for a family man nicknamed "Hershey."

"He was a human being. He was not a dog," Jacques' stepfather Allison Gotay told KINT. "He was a family man. A man left five children without a father, who deserve to have peace, to have justice be done."

Daniel Borunda may be reached at 546-6102; dborunda@elpasotimes.com; @BorundaDaniel on Twitter.