Eric Pera

eric.pera@theledger.com

LAKELAND — A Lakeland man who threatened deputies with a knife was shot and killed Monday afternoon in a rural neighborhood in southwest Lakeland, Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said.

Deputies were on the way to the nearby Spring Lane neighborhood to investigate a string of home robberies when they first encountered Ryan L. Smith as he drove a Nissan Altima recklessly, weaving across lanes in the area of Hatcher Road and Ridge Road, Judd said.

He said that when deputies tried to stop Smith, 44, he acted like he was going to stop, then drove through a yard, abandoned the car and began running north. Smith turned with a knife, screaming for the deputies to shoot him, Judd said.

Deputies on foot chased Smith into a backyard shed on Presidential Lane, but Smith "sprang out and hopped over a fence," Judd said, adding that deputies ordered him to drop his knife, but he refused.

Polk Sheriff's Sgt. Eric Daniel shot Smith multiple times, according to a Sheriff's Office news release. Smith was immediately provided first aid and transferred to Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center, where he later died from his wounds, Judd said.

"He had an easy opportunity to throw the knife down and stop," he said. "You threaten my deputies with a gun, or in this case, a knife, we're going to shoot."

Daniel has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of a mandatory psychological evaluation and counseling, after which he'll resume his regular duties, a Sheriff's Office spokesman said.

Judd said Smith was armed with a folding-type pocketknife, 4 to 5 inches long. Marijuana and amphetamines were recovered from the man's vehicle, he said.

Smith has a history of multiple arrests in Polk and Pinellas counties for drug possession, grand theft, DUI and numerous probation violations, jail records show.

Multiple investigations into Monday's shooting are being conducted by the Polk Sheriff's Office and the State Attorney's Office. An autopsy also is being conducted.

Eric Pera can be reached at eric.pera@theledger.com or 863-802-7528.