SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) -- A San Francisco armed robbery that ended with one suspect fatally shot in the getaway car's trunk late Tuesday night was captured on cell phone video.

On the video obtained by KPIX 5, a female officer's voice can clearly be heard saying in Spanish -- "Show me you left hand, show me your left hand, show me your left hand. We are going to shoot. Show me your left hand."

The suspect opens the trunk and appears to fire at police. A flurry of gunfire comes in response.

In videos of the incident, neighbors on the street at the time can be seen raising their hands in the air. Others ducked for cover inside their own homes.

"We got on the floor because we live on the first floor," said neighbor Ricardo Sanchez.

Resident Albert Balcazar said the officers gave the armed suspect plenty of time to surrender.

"They gave him five to ten minutes of instructions before bullets went off," said Balcazar. "They gave him a long time to get out. They wanted him to live. I know they wanted him to live."

San Francisco police Sgt. Michael Andraychak issued a statement early Wednesday saying the incident began with two robbery victims flagging down a patrol car at 10:36 p.m. at 20th and Capp streets.

The victim provided the officers with a description of the getaway car -- a black Honda Civic -- which was spotted nearby on Capp Street between 21st and 22nd streets.

The officers ordered the suspects out of the car, but only the driver complied and was detained. The third suspect -- a female -- then quickly surrendered.

The officers removed the suspect from the trunk, administered medical aid and summoned an ambulance. But the suspect was declared deceased at the scene.

A handgun was located in the trunk of the vehicle, according to police.

Early on Wednesday evening, a crowd gathered at the scene of the shooting to hold a vigil for the man who was shot. Signs and posters being held by mourners identified the suspect as 19-year-old Jesus Delgado.

The shooting remains under investigation by the SFPD Homicide Detail, the San Francisco District Attorney's Office Independent Investigation Bureau, the San Francisco Department of Police Accountability, the SFPD Internal Affairs Division and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to call the SFPD 24-Hour Tip Line at (415) 575-4444 or Text a Tip to TIP411 and begin the text message with "SFPD."

The police department will be holding a public town hall meeting to discuss the incident within ten days.