CLEVELAND, Ohio -- The family of a Newburgh Heights man killed in a 2016 crash has filed a wrongful-death lawsuit claiming the car that struck him was part of an illegal chase prompted by Cleveland police officers who later gave untruthful statements about the incident to department investigators.

The family of 63-year-old Romero Brown says officers Adam Hymes and Shane McNea never turned on their lights or sirens or told their supervisor they were chasing a car as they reached speeds of 70 mph to catch up to a "suspicious" BMW driven by Jonathan Grier along East 116th Street in the Buckeye-Shaker neighborhood.

The speed limit on East 116th Street is 25 mph.

The lawsuit, filed Wednesday in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court, claims an internal investigation recommended that the officers face discipline for violating the city's chase policy and then giving untruthful statements.

Cleveland police spokeswoman Sgt. Jennifer Ciaccia could not immediately answer on Wednesday afternoon whether the officers actually were disciplined.

The suit names both officers as well as Grier, who is currently serving a four-year prison sentence after pleading guilty last year to aggravated vehicular homicide.

Brown's family is seeking damages for pain and suffering that Brown and his surviving family members endured, as well as punitive damages to punish the officers and Grier.

"This pursuit was unnecessary, unjustifiable, and conducted without any safety precautions designed to warn the public of a chase in the vicinity," Sarah Gelsomino, an attorney at the law firm Friedman & Gilbert, said in a news release. "The...officers acted with utter disregard for the safety of the community and as a result Romero Brown, an innocent bystander, was killed."

Police reports said the officers spotted a 2003 BMW 325XI acting "suspiciously" in the parking lot of a closed gas station on East 116th Street and Kinsman Road.

The report says that officers followed the car and, as they were running the car's license plates, the car sped off and ran a red light, the report said. They followed the car north on East 116th Street to Buckeye Road, but did not activate their lights or sirens. The car ran a red light and smashed into Brown's 2006 Ford Five Hundred as Brown drove through the green light on Buckeye Road, the report said.

The impact sent Brown's car spinning out of control. It crashed through a glass RTA bus shelter at the intersection, court records say.

Brown die at the scene.

Officers did not learn that the BMW was stolen until after the crash.

Cleveland police's pursuit policy was changed in 2014 following a review of a chaotic 2012 chase in which more than 100 Cleveland police cars joined a high-speed, cross-town chase that ended with 13 officers firing 137 shots at the car, which was occupied by Timothy Russell and Malissa Williams, who were unarmed.

The new policy allows police only to pursue vehicles driven by suspects in a crime of violence, and specifically states that "the act of fleeing in and of itself is not sufficient cause to engage or continue to engage the fleeing vehicle in a pursuit."

The union that represents the department's rank-and-file officers has decried the policy as too restrictive since it was instituted.

"We still need to do our job to apprehend [suspects] and put them in jail," Cleveland Police Patrolman's Union President Jeff Follmer told cleveland.com the day the new policy was unveiled. "We can't live in a city where there is a no-chase policy. Are we going in that direction? I don't know."

Chief Calvin Williams said at the time that the policy was meant to balance the need for police officers to protect the community, while not needlessly endangering the safety of bystanders.

"If the community can take one thing from this, they should take that the Cleveland Division of Police is committed to making sure we deliver the best possible service to them," Williams said. "And our officers can be assured that we will do that in the safest possible way for them."

The department's inspection unit assigned a detective to review the incident and, as part of the review, he interviewed Hymes and McNea, according to a copy of the report provided by Browns' family's attorney.

Both Hymes and McNea admitted that they drove up to 70 mph to catch up to the car when it sped away, but told the detective that the incident was not a pursuit.

The officers told the investigator that they were trying to get close enough to make out the car's license plate.

McNea, who was driving, said he didn't turn on the car's lights or sirens because "we were only trying to obtain the plate."

They also said they never notified their radio supervisor that the car took off, "because it happened so fast."

But radio traffic showed that the officers did ask dispatchers to run the license plate, and 38 seconds passed from the time they gave the plate number to when they reported the crash.

Based on that, the investigator determined that the officers were either untruthful in the police report or their interviews with the inspection unit, and recommended that they face discipline.

The Director of the state's Department of Public Safety also issued the officers letters of re-instruction because they should have notified the Communications Control Section that the BMW fled from them.

To comment on this story, please visit Wednesday's crime and courts comments page.