CALDWELL -- A woman who was a passenger in a suspect's vehicle during a Nampa car chase died after she jumped from the vehicle and was run over by pursuing police officers, prosecutors say.

Police say the incident happened Tuesday morning after a Nampa Police officer tried to pull over 46-year-old Joe A. Nevarez on 2nd Street South just after midnight. Nevarez pulled over, but then took off, police say, prompting a chase.

Prosecutor Marcus West said during Nevarez' Wednesday arraignment that the suspect was driving at speeds up to 70 mph in a 35 mph zone when Carrera opened the passenger door and jumped from the vehicle. She fell, and was hit and run over by officers driving behind Nevarez, West said.

Nevarez did not stop when Carrera was hit, but continued toward the area of Highway 45 and East Locust Lane. Officers were able to ram his vehicle using a PIT maneuver, bringing the chase to an end.

Nevarez was taken into custody and booked into the Canyon County Jail on felony charges of drug possession and eluding. He has not been charged in Carrera's death.

Carrera's family told KTVB she leaves behind two daughters and a son. Her official cause of death has not been released.

"I'm probably still in shock and I can't figure it out in my mind," said Irene Mercado, Carrera's mother.

The family of the 36-year-old still searching for answers.

"That's pretty much the hardest part. Clearly you daughter is with it, but not knowing what the truth is, what really happened, that's the hardest part," said Mercado.

The Critical Incident Task Force, led by the Idaho State Police, has been called in to investigate Carrera's death. Both Nampa Police and Idaho State Police have declined to comment on the case, and the names of the officers who struck Carrera have not been released.

West asked the judge to set a high bond for Nevarez, arguing that he was "a danger to society" and "shows a lack of respect for the law."

Nevarez, clad in an orange jail uniform, covered his face and audibly sobbed as the prosecutor described Carrera's death.

It's unclear, as of now, if more charges will be filed against Neverez pertaining to the death of Carrera.

"I believe that he should be charged in something with regards to my daughter's death," said Mercado.

The family saying Carrera wasn't perfect; she did have pending drug charges, but still had those who loved her.

"People need to know when there's incidents like this not to just criticize or to remember that's there's people. There's family out there that's hurting and instead of judgemental and condemning people and stuff, wait until you have the evidence," said Mercado. "We want everyone to know that she's not the woman. She is a person and she has people that love her."

His bond was ultimately set at $1 million.