A Chicago police officer shot and killed a man Saturday in a Northwest Side restaurant after the man fired twice at the officer, wounding him in the legs.

The 34-year-old officer was taken to Illinois Masonic Medical Center, where he was upgraded from serious to fair condition Saturday night, a hospital nursing supervisor said.

Advertisement

About 2 p.m. Saturday a cook from the restaurant, D & L Snack Shop in the 3400 block of West Belmont Avenue, flagged two uniformed officers from the Shakespeare District patrolling the neighborhood after a man entered the business with a gun, police spokesman Matthew Jackson said.

One officer entered the business from the rear while the second went into the front, where he saw the man with the gun.

Advertisement

"When the officer announced that he was a member of the Chicago police force, the man fired, striking him once in each thigh," Jackson said.

The officer returned fire, said Jackson, who did not know how many shots were fired or where the man was hit.

Police identified the gunman as Richard Specker, 47, of the 1400 block of West Erie Street.

Customers and waitresses who gathered at the closed restaurant Saturday evening described the gunman as the ex-boyfriend of a waitress who works evenings and nights there. After meeting in a tavern about a half-mile from the restaurant, the couple had dated about 18 months until breaking up this winter.

Karen Termini, a waitress at the restaurant, said the woman had filed at least two restraining orders against the man in the time they knew each other, after he beat her, broke furniture and kicked in the door of her apartment.

Jealousy may have played a role in Saturday's incident, said Paul Bougher, who said he had been a friend of the gunman for 15 years.

"[He] was the kind of guy when he was in love, he wouldn't let go," he said.

Termini described the gunman as a regular at the restaurant for at least the last six years before the owners, Dion and Laura Richards, barred him from entering, she said.

Advertisement

Bougher said Specker worked as an electrician.

A roundtable discussion will be held at Grand Central Area detective headquarters to determine if the officer acted properly in shooting the gunman, Jackson said, adding that it would take place after the officer leaves the hospital.

Police continued to question the restaurant owners and the waitress late Saturday, Jackson said.

Tribune news files show that the officer was the first shot this year. In December, an off-duty Chicago police officer was injured when she was shot in the abdomen during a domestic dispute involving another officer.

It was the sixth shooting involving Chicago police in just over a week.