A Spotsylvania County deputy acted appropriately March 8 when he fatally shot an armed teenager who posed an “imminent threat,” Commonwealth’s Attorney Travis Bird concluded in a report released Wednesday.

Sixteen-year-old Jamil Omar Harvey was shot by the deputy four times in a Salem Fields townhouse after the teenager “grabbed his gun and began to raise it” during an attempt to arrest him, Bird wrote in a report dated July 10. An investigation of the crime scene showed that Harvey fired a single round from a .45-caliber handgun, and the bullet traveled through the floor, the report states.

The report does not say who fired the first shot.

“The use of force … was an appropriate, justified, and legal response to the imminent threat that Mr. Harvey posed to [the deputy who fired his weapon] and other deputies in the room when [Harvey] picked up his firearm during the arrest attempt,” Bird wrote.

Louisa County Commonwealth’s Attorney Russell McGuire conducted an “outside review” of the shooting at Bird’s request and also found that the deputies acted appropriately. McGuire called the shooting “unavoidable” in a separate report dated July 2, writing that Harvey could have seriously injured or killed deputies had he not been shot.

None of the deputies sustained injuries.

The Spotsylvania Sheriff’s Office—which conducted an internal investigation of the shooting—provided copies of the reports by Bird and McGuire to The Free Lance–Star, but redacted the names of the deputies involved. None of the deputies were wearing body cameras, which the Sheriff’s Office was in the process of acquiring at the time.

Court documents state that the deputies went to the townhouse on Tangible Court in search of Harvey after finding a 2006 BMW and a 2008 Volkswagen Passat, both of which the teenager was accused of stealing. A search warrant also identified the teen as a suspect in two drive-by shootings that month at a home on Cedar Post Lane in Holleybrooke.

Bird reviewed incident reports, witness statements collected by the Sheriff’s Office, an autopsy report and forensic evidence. His report summarizes the sequence of events that led to the shooting at the Salem Fields townhouse.

Four residents of the townhouse exited the home at the deputies’ request, but would not confirm or deny Harvey’s presence, the report states.

According to the report, deputies asked Harvey to surrender before entering the townhouse, but the teen did not reply. They searched the first floor and repeated the command to surrender before going to the second floor. Harvey did not reply to that command, either, according to the report.

A deputy found Harvey in a second-floor bedroom, sitting on a box spring and holding a gun in his right hand. The deputy yelled for the teenager to drop the gun and put his hands up.

Harvey “was hesitant to follow commands, slowly putting the gun down and then slowly picking it back up several times,” the report states. He eventually put down the gun and raised his hands.

Deputies entered the room to arrest Harvey. Two of the deputies kept their weapons pointed at Harvey while a third grabbed the suspect’s right hand to handcuff him. Harvey looked at two of the deputies and “then grabbed his gun and began to raise it,” according to the report.

“Gunfire then erupted in the room that lasted less than two seconds,” Bird wrote.

Five shots were fired, four by the deputy and one by Harvey, the report states. The bullet from Harvey’s gun was recovered on the first floor of the townhouse.

Capt. Liz Scott of the Sheriff’s Office said the determination that Harvey fired his gun was based on “ballistic evidence recovered at the scene and analyzed by the Department of Forensic Science.”

An autopsy report obtained by The Free Lance–Star says Harvey suffered five gunshot wounds from a rifle.

That includes one “contact gunshot” wound to the pelvis, meaning the muzzle of the deputy’s firearm was touching the teenager’s body at the time of the shot. He suffered three other gunshot wounds to the chest, shoulder and thigh, in addition to a “superficial gunshot wound” to the left forearm, the autopsy report states.

Scott said two of those wounds came from the same bullet, which is why Bird’s report states that the teen was shot four times rather than five.

She said Bird was out of the office Wednesday and unavailable for comment.