Two people are dead and another was injured after an apparent murder-suicide Saturday evening in Seminole County, Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation officials said.Around 5:30 p.m., a man called the Seminole County Central Dispatch and reported that he had shot a male and a female at a home in the 13100 block of State highway 56 near Wewoka, OSBI officials said. Seminole County deputies found a man lying dead in the from yard next to a 2016 Chevrolet pickup truck.Deputies also found Baylie Goodwin inside the home. She had been shot and was responsive, officials said.Goodwin was taken to OU Medical Center for treatment.She told officers that she and her husband, Jerry Leonard II, had been arguing all day Saturday and called for a male friend to pick her up. Leonard shot the man multiple times when he arrived.Goodwin tried shooting Leonard but missed, according to OSBI officials. Leonard then shot Goodwin once in the thigh before he left the scene.OSBI officials said Hughes County deputies saw Leonard a few hours later driving in the area of the crime scene. Deputies engaged in a short pursuit before Leonard crashed his pickup truck in a field near County Road EW 132 and NS 367 in Hughes County.The deputies heard a single gunshot come from the vehicle immediately after the crash, officials said. Officers found Leonard dead inside of the vehicle due to an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.OSBI officials have not released the name of the man who was found next to the pickup truck.

Two people are dead and another was injured after an apparent murder-suicide Saturday evening in Seminole County, Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation officials said.

Around 5:30 p.m., a man called the Seminole County Central Dispatch and reported that he had shot a male and a female at a home in the 13100 block of State highway 56 near Wewoka, OSBI officials said. Seminole County deputies found a man lying dead in the from yard next to a 2016 Chevrolet pickup truck.

Advertisement

Deputies also found Baylie Goodwin inside the home. She had been shot and was responsive, officials said.

Goodwin was taken to OU Medical Center for treatment.

She told officers that she and her husband, Jerry Leonard II, had been arguing all day Saturday and called for a male friend to pick her up. Leonard shot the man multiple times when he arrived.

Goodwin tried shooting Leonard but missed, according to OSBI officials. Leonard then shot Goodwin once in the thigh before he left the scene.

OSBI officials said Hughes County deputies saw Leonard a few hours later driving in the area of the crime scene. Deputies engaged in a short pursuit before Leonard crashed his pickup truck in a field near County Road EW 132 and NS 367 in Hughes County.

The deputies heard a single gunshot come from the vehicle immediately after the crash, officials said. Officers found Leonard dead inside of the vehicle due to an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

OSBI officials have not released the name of the man who was found next to the pickup truck.