Police: Officer fatally shot bat-wielding suspect in Great Neck

Nassau police say an officer shot and killed a bat-wielding suspect in Great Neck Monday morning following an apparent road rage confrontation in Great Neck.

It happened on Maple Street around 10:30 a.m. Police say the male suspect was stopped in a Volkswagen at a stop sign with two vehicles behind him. Police say the suspect became enraged when one of the cars honked their horn.

According to police, the suspect exited his car and hit the driver's side window of the vehicle behind him. They say that stunned the driver as he got out of his car to confront the suspect.

When the victim exited his car, police say the suspect struck him in the head with a bat. Then, police say the suspect went after the driver of the other vehicle, who was in a gray van. He allegedly smashed the driver’s side window on that vehicle as well.

According to police, when an officer approached the suspect, he came at him with the bat. A good Samaritan who tried to help was also hit in the head with the bat, police say.

Police officials say the officer attempted to use his Taser, but it didn't stop the suspect, who also allegedly ignored repeated commands by the officer to put the bat down.

"He turned on our officer," says Nassau Police Commissioner Patrick Ryder. "The last instruction was to put the bat down. The officer had no option but to fire and stop that subject at that location."

Police say two shots were fired, and one struck the suspect in the chest. He died at the hospital.

There are reports that the suspect could be connected to a deadly hit-and-run that happened earlier Monday in Brooklyn. But the NYPD is not confirming those reports at this time.

The two people who were struck in the head with the bat were both hospitalized with injuries.

The names of the suspect and the officer involved have not been released at this time.

Police say the officer had just graduated from the academy last month. They say he used the correct tactical training under the circumstances.