Deputies say domestic disturbance led to 61-year-old man being fatally wounded in deadly deputy-involved shooting

The Davidson County Sheriff's Office said a domestic assault led to a 61-year-old man being killed in a deputy-involved shooting late Monday.The incident happened just before 11 p.m. at 1257 Sink Farm Road in Lexington, in the Tyro community.The victim told deputies she was assaulted by 61-year-old Brisco Tim Woodell.Deputies responded to conduct an investigation, but Woodell barricaded himself into a barn-like building as the victim fled to her mother's home.Authorities responded to the area and were able to speak to Woodell through the wall. Deputies said Woodell told authorities he wasn't coming outside and threatened to shoot at deputies.As the stand-off ensued, Woodell made threatening social media posts against law enforcement.Woodell ended up firing a gunshot inside the barn while deputies attempted to negotiate with him.The SWAT team arrived and Woodell came to the door with a shotgun and fired another gunshot toward deputies.Deputies responded with gunfire that fatally wounded Woodell.The deputy involved, who has been identified as Sgt. Jesse Sharp, is on administrative leave as authorities investigate the shooting. The deputy has been in law enforcement for 25 years.

The Davidson County Sheriff's Office said a domestic assault led to a 61-year-old man being killed in a deputy-involved shooting late Monday.

The incident happened just before 11 p.m. at 1257 Sink Farm Road in Lexington, in the Tyro community.

Advertisement

The victim told deputies she was assaulted by 61-year-old Brisco Tim Woodell.

Deputies responded to conduct an investigation, but Woodell barricaded himself into a barn-like building as the victim fled to her mother's home.

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Authorities responded to the area and were able to speak to Woodell through the wall.

Deputies said Woodell told authorities he wasn't coming outside and threatened to shoot at deputies.

As the stand-off ensued, Woodell made threatening social media posts against law enforcement.

Woodell ended up firing a gunshot inside the barn while deputies attempted to negotiate with him.

The SWAT team arrived and Woodell came to the door with a shotgun and fired another gunshot toward deputies.

Deputies responded with gunfire that fatally wounded Woodell.

The deputy involved, who has been identified as Sgt. Jesse Sharp, is on administrative leave as authorities investigate the shooting. The deputy has been in law enforcement for 25 years.