In the same Antioch home where police say Matthew McGinnis fatally shot his girlfriend Sunday, the homicide suspect was himself killed by gunfire Thursday after a standoff with officers.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is investigating after Metro Nashville SWAT officers who confronted McGinnis reported that he shot himself in the head nearly simultaneously to an officer firing a shot.

Previous:Police issue murder warrant for boyfriend of slain Nashville woman

Wanted for the killing of Nicole Lee Stephens, 39, police say McGinnis, 35, carried out the homicide early Sunday at his townhouse in the 1300 block of Rural Hill Road before moving her body to a shed behind her home on Sussex Drive in Nashville.

After reporting her missing Monday, Stephens' adult son found her body later that evening.

As of Thursday, Metro police have not released a possible motive in the killing, nor said how long the pair had been in a relationship.

McGinnis has previously been convicted of multiple domestic violence-related charges, including domestic assault, harrassment and violations of orders of protection.

Standoff leads to shots fired by suspect, police

Around 7:30 a.m. Thursday, police received a tip that McGinnis, for whom officers were searching, had been dropped off by a friend at his house.

When officers arrived, they found that a window had been broken but were unsure whether McGinnis was inside. His roommate had changed the locks to the house and wasn't home at the time.

McGinnis didn't respond to officers' announcements of their presence, said police spokesman Don Aaron.

At roughly 7:50 a.m., responding officers called for other SWAT-trained officers to go inside the residence in an attempt to find and apprehend McGinnis. They also called his roommate to the scene, who provided police with a key to enter through the door.

As the four SWAT members — three sergeants and a detective — entered the house around 9:15 a.m., they continued to call out for McGinnis to surrender while searching downstairs and then moving upstairs.

In one of the upstairs bedrooms, police say they found McGinnis standing in an adjoined bathroom holding a semi-automatic pistol to his head.

"The encounter with him there lasted a matter of seconds, with the officers yelling at him, 'Don't do it. Don't do it,'" Aaron said.

As they were commanding McGinnis, the officers reported seeing an abrupt move or twitch from his arm that was holding the gun.

"Officers, not knowing what that intention was, heard a shot from him," Aaron said. "He shot himself in the head and one of the SWAT members almost simultaneously to that also fired."

The department later identified the officer who fired the shot from a rifle as Detective Chris Key, who works undercover in Metro's gang unit. Key has worked eight years for Metro police. He has been placed on "routine administrative assignment" while the investigation is ongoing.

McGinnis didn't communicate with the officers, Aaron said.

First MNPD fatal shooting since Jocques Clemmons

TBI spokesman Josh DeVine said Thursday that it wasn't immediately clear which shot may have killed McGinnis, but confirmed later that day that the officer's shot did strike McGinnis.

An autopsy will be performed that will provide more information, DeVine said.

The state law enforcement agency sent special agents and forensic scientists to the scene after Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk asked them to investigate, according to TBI.

But both Metro police and TBI acknowledged that a memorandum of understanding between the two, which they entered last year just after the fatal shooting of Jocques Clemmons, dictates that TBI would investigate all fatal shootings by Metro officers.

Clemmons was fatally shot in February 2017 by Metro Officer Josh Lippert following a traffic stop, chase and confrontation at the James Cayce Homes public housing complex.

Reach Natalie Allison at nallison@tennessean.com. Follow her on Twitter at @natalie_allison.