An Elgin police officer fatally shot a woman who was armed with a knife early on March 12, 2018, after a fire started in her vehicle and the officer approached to pull her out, authorities said. (Stacey Wescott / Chicago Tribune)

The woman shot by an Elgin police officer early Monday morning is an Elgin native who had several minor run-ins with the law but was described by family as loving and the “life of the party.”

Decynthia Clements, 34, of 61 Aldine Ave. in Elgin, was pulled over by the officer on Interstate 90, near Route 25, about 12:35 a.m. but refused to exit her SUV and pulled out a knife while speaking to police, Elgin police Chief Jeffrey Swoboda said.

Advertisement

Officers were attempting to negotiate with her when they noticed the vehicle was on fire and attempted to pull her from the SUV, Swoboda said. It was then that the shooting occurred; no details have been released on what occurred to prompt the shooting.

The incident is being investigated by the Elgin Police Department, but the use-of-force portion of the case has been turned over to the Illinois State Police, authorities said.

Advertisement

“There’s not much I can say about it at this time,” Orseno said. “The investigation is still ongoing.”

The officer involved in the shooting has been placed on paid leave, Swoboda said.

Clements’ brother, Nehemiah, said his sister had a 16-year-old son but was not married.

“She was a lovable person,” Nehemiah Clements said. “She always tried to be the life of the party.”

He acknowledged his sister had run-ins with the law but said most of the cases, which included arrests for DUI, driving with a suspended license and possession of cannabis, were minor.

Nehemiah Clements said he is just one year younger than his sister, and they were close as children. Both attended Elgin High School, and Decynthia lived most of her life in the Elgin area other than for short times during which she lived in Florida and Las Vegas, he said. He didn’t know if his sister was employed, he said.

Decynthia Clements’ father, Charles Clements, said the family is waiting to learn more details.

“I’m not sure what happened myself,” he said.

Advertisement

A man who identified himself as Clements’ uncle, Arthur Dorsey, was at the Aldine Avenue home, where he said she lived on a part-time basis with her father. Dorsey said Clements had been going back and forth between her father’s home and a location on Cedar Avenue. Her mother died in 2002.

“There was no reason for this, to do that to her,” he said. “She was a good girl. There was no reason to kill her, what Elgin did to her. It was unjustifiable, to me, but I am not the law and I can’t say” why the shooting occurred, he said.

“We all have our trials and tribulations,” he said, noting that his niece was on medication for various health problems.

He said his niece had recently been involved in a car accident and bought the SUV with money she received from the settlement.

The incident began Sunday night, when police officers spotted Decynthia Clements’ SUV on Cedar Avenue in Elgin, Swoboda said. They attempted to pull her over — Swoboda said he did not know why they wanted her to stop — but she kept going and the officers ultimately ended their pursuit.

Some time later, the officers saw her traveling west on Interstate 90, Swoboda said. Her SUV had “obvious signs of damage,” so they attempted to pull her over again, he said.

Advertisement

Clements refused to get out of her vehicle for more than an hour, periodically driving a few feet forward as they spoke to her, Swoboda said.

After the shooting, Clements was taken to Amita Health St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates, where she was pronounced dead.

Troopers shut down the expressway in both directions at mile post 57 starting at 4:15 a.m. as they investigated, state police said. Eastbound traffic was diverted to Route 25 and westbound traffic was sent to Beverly Road, troopers said. The lanes were reopened by 9 a.m.

“I want to express my condolences to the family,” Swoboda said. “Anytime anyone loses their life in an incident like this, it’s extremely sad.”

A neighbor at the Aldine Avenue home said he had seen the woman only a few times but believed she had moved out.

Ronald Mitchell, who lives in the apartment complex, said police were at the home in the early morning hours and included a police chaplain.

Advertisement

The officers involved, and others on scene, were wearing body cameras, Swoboda said. The department had not yet reviewed the footage, he said.

According to the Elgin Police Department, this is the third officer-involved shooting death in Elgin since 1989 and the first in nearly 20 years.

In June 1989, Officer Todd Eschman shot and killed Francisco Garcia during a violent domestic disturbance on Illinois Court. Eschman survived but committed suicide three years later.

In August 1999, John Bierdz was shot and killed as he stabbed his wife, Joan, in the driveway of their house on Eagle Road. She died as a result of her wounds. Bierdz was a teacher at Larkin High School. The officer involved, Gene Fowler, was cleared after an internal investigation, according to reports at the time.

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter for The Courier-News.