A Marion County grand jury on Friday found a Keizer police officer was justified in opening fire on an armed-robbery suspect earlier this month.

Ryan Chapman, 26, who was shot and killed March 14, is also believed to have been responsible for more than a dozen robberies this year in the Salem and Keizer areas.

At about 6 p.m., officers responded to an armed robbery in progress at the Pizza Hut at 4492 River Road N.

In a statement released Friday, Marion County prosecutors said Chapman, who lived in the Salem area, had brandished a silver handgun inside the restaurant and demanded money.

Chapman, who was dressed in a black-and-grey coat and covered his face, pressed his gun against an employee's ribs, telling him to empty the register. Chapman stuffed the money in a backpack and fled the restaurant on foot, prosecutors said.

A tipster who had called 911 told authorities he saw Chapman leave in a maroon Hyundai.

Multiple Keizer Police Department units located and pursued the car, which didn't have license plates. Officers said they saw smoke coming from the Hyundai's wheels as they chased him.

Chapman wound through residential neighborhoods for miles before he crashed into a car at the Springtime Court NE and Chemawa Road NE intersection, prosecutors said. He fled the crash on foot, heading up Springtime Court.

Data incident:Oregon Revenue Department mishandles data for 36,000 people, sends it into the cloud

Environmental news:State officials let mega-dairy use loophole to tap endangered Oregon aquifer

New police HQ:Salem residents want diversity, bikes, coffee reflected in police HQ designs

Officer Tyler Wampler, armed with a department-issued AR-15 rifle, chased after Chapman, prosecutors said.

Another officer, Carrie Anderson, went with Wampler as Chapman fled to the Springtime Court cul-de-sac. Wampler warned Chapman: "Stop, or you will be shot!"

Wampler also told him drop to the ground, prosecutors said. He knew Chapman was armed during the Pizza Hut robbery.

"Chapman looked back twice, but ignored the officer's commands," prosecutors said.

Anderson and Wampler said there were lots of homes and civilians in the immediate area. Some residents were watching what was happening.

Chapman got between two vehicles at 1741 Springtime Court NE. Then, he faced Anderson and Wampler.

The officers told him, "Show me your hands!"

The suspect lifted one of his hands, but didn't raise his other, prosecutors said.

Chapman told officers he had a gun. That's when Wampler saw the silver handgun, prosecutors said.

Wampler yelled at him multiple times to, "Drop the gun!"

Chapman refused and Wampler fired a shot.

The gun was still in Chapman's hand when he fell to the ground, so officers kept telling him to drop it.

They couldn't tell if he was dead or just "playing dead" to lure officers closer.

"This situation caused the officers great concern for their safety, as well as the local public's," prosecutors said.

Keizer Police Sgt. Greg Barber allowed police to use a rubber, "less-than-lethal" round to find out if Chapman was dead.

Salem Police Officer Eric Hernandez, who also had arrived on the scene, shot at Chapman's arm and the gun dislodged, prosecutors said.

Officers approached him, secured the area and called for medical help.

Chapman was pronounced dead at the scene with a gunshot to the head.

The robber's .22 handgun was loaded, officials later determined.

With a warrant, authorities found $541 in cash in his backpack, which was the amount stolen from Pizza Hut.

An autopsy later revealed Chapman had used THC, opiates and methamphetamine.

At 6-feet-4-inches and 284 pounds, he also had characteristics similar to those of a suspect in earlier robberies.

Authorities had been investigating a string of robberies at Salem and Keizer businesses since the beginning of the year, prosecutors said.

Salem police had investigated more than a dozen robberies, giving authorities potential identifying traits to look for: a white man wearing dark shoes and pants, along with a black-and-grey jacket. The suspect also covered his face during the robberies.

"Local law enforcement was told that the suspect was becoming increasingly brazen with his firearm, which was described as a small, silver handgun," prosecutors said.

Email jbach@statesmanjournal.com, call (503) 399-6714 or follow on Twitter @jonathanmbach.