Denver’s district attorney determined three police officers were justified when they shot and killed a man who had been mistaken for an escaped jail inmate, but lawyers for the man called the shooting “egregious” and are questioning whether the officers violated the department’s policies for firing at moving cars.

Denver Police Department officers William Bohm, Austin Barela and Susan Mercado killed Steven Lee Nguyen, 27, and injured Rafael Landeros Jr., 24, on March 19 when police were searching for escapee Mauricio Venzor-Gonzalez, who was considered armed and dangerous because he had shot an officer earlier in the year.

District Attorney Beth McCann determined that even though Nguyen was not the escapee, his and Landeros’ actions posed a threat to the general public and the police officers who were trying to apprehend them, according to a copy of a letter she wrote to Chief Paul Pazen informing him the officers had been cleared of criminal wrongdoing.

Although McCann cleared the officers, she suggested that Pazen take a hard look at whether they violated the department’s policy that forbids officers to shoot at moving cars except under the most extreme circumstances. She particularly criticized Mercado’s decision to shoot.

“Officer Mercado’s shots likely did not hit either of the suspects, but her use of deadly force without taking close stock of the situation once she arrived at the scene should be examined carefully by the Denver Police Department…,” McCann wrote.

Nguyen was the driver, and Landeros was the passenger who had been wrongly identified as the escapee. Nguyen was shot nearly 50 times, Nguyen family attorney Spencer Bryan said in a statement.

The shooting is a test of the police department’s policy on shooting at cars, and the department and city government’s ability to hold itself accountable, Bryan said.

“This level of excess is particularly egregious because it was fueled by a dispatch from detectives who could not positively identify the passenger in Steven’s car, but falsely reported ‘to a 100 percent certainty’ that he was an escapee wanted for shooting at police,” the statement said.

Landeros’ lawyers at the Rathod Mohamedbhai firm also issued a statement saying Landeros continued to mourn his friend, but they would reserve comment until the lawyers have reviewed information that remains in the possession of the police department.

Pazen, in a Tuesday afternoon news conference, called the shooting a tragedy and asked the public to be mindful of emotions that can be “kicked up” with the families, especially when body camera footage of the shooting is released.

“I want to assure you there is a sense of urgency on our part to get answers to the questions that we all have,” Pazen said.

Pazen promised a “detailed and exhaustive” internal investigation that would include participation for the Office of the Independent Monitor as well as the department’s use of force and tactics review boards.

Nguyen led police on a chase from Aurora into Denver, sometimes driving an estimated 100 mph through city streets. He refused to pull over and ignored patrol officers’ commands to get out of his car after he wrecked in a ditch near East 40th Avenue and Colorado Boulevard. Police also reported that Landeros had thrown something they believed to be a gun out the car window during the chase, the letter said.

Nguyen’s efforts to flee along with the officers’ belief that he was a homicide suspect and his actions gave the officers reason to believe their lives were in danger, McCann wrote.

“The officers believed that at least one of the occupants of the suspect vehicle was very dangerous, had previously shot a Denver police officer, and had thrown what appeared to be a firearm from the window of the fleeing vehicle,” McCann’s letter said.

McCann will host a community meeting to discuss the legal analysis and conclusion reached. The public meeting will be held from 6 to 7 p.m. Nov. 8, in Multiple Purpose Room A, Central Park Recreation Center, 9651 E. Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.