John Chambliss

john.chambliss@theledger.com

WINTER HAVEN — A 20-year-old Winter Haven man who had been brought into custody under the Baker Act seven times during the past year was shot and killed late Tuesday by two Polk County Sheriff's Office deputies during a standoff.

Chance Haegele, of 138 Jay Drive, was about 10 feet from deputies when he pointed a 12-gauge shotgun at them about 11:30 p.m. in a mobile home park at 96 Laura Lane off Thornhill Road. The deputies fired 17 times from their Glock handguns — hitting Haegele several times, Polk Sheriff Grady Judd said.

Deputies Reginald Green and Joseph Hicks attempted CPR, but could not save Haegele, he said. Haegele died from a gunshot wound to the chest area, District 10 Medical Examiner Stephen Nelson said.

Neither Green nor Hicks was injured in the shooting.

Haegele's mother, Christina Haegele, said she repeatedly told deputies the gun wasn't loaded.

"Don't shoot my kid, don't shoot my kid," Haegele said she told deputies when they arrived.

Judd defended his deputies. He said minutes after Christina Haegele said the gun wasn't loaded she told deputies that she wasn't sure whether there was ammunition in the shotgun.

Judd said it wouldn't have made a difference.

"We're not accepting anyone telling us if a shotgun is unloaded," Judd said. "You never take someone's word that a gun is unloaded, especially when they are pointing it at you in a rage."

The shotgun was not loaded, officials said.

Judd described Haegele's life as troubled during a news conference Wednesday morning. As a student at Florida State University, he was taken into custody under the Baker Act twice by Florida State Police and once by Tallahassee police.

But Haegele's mother said the depression just recently started. A sophomore, Haegele had a 3.7 GPA at FSU and was interested in a career in business finance. He became depressed at the college soon after he joined a fraternity, his mother said.

When his father decided to cut him off financially the first two weeks of school, that exacerbated the depression, his mother said.

On Tuesday night, Haegele posted a suicidal message on Snapchat asking why he shouldn't kill himself. It was the fourth suicidal threat since September.

"We are so irrelevant in the grand scheme of the universe," Haegele wrote. "I'm never gonna fall in love again."

A friend of Haegele's who lives in Tallahassee saw the post and notified deputies, who called Haegele to check on him. Christina Haegele said her son told deputies that everything was OK.

A second friend called Haegele. He told the friend that he had killed his mother.

Dispatchers from the emergency communications center called Christina Haegele several times before she answered the phone. Dunring an initial call, she told a dispatcher that she was okay, but that call was disconnected. Dispatchers continued to call. During one call, Christina Haegele said her son had a shotgun.

Deputies who arrived at the Jay Drive home saw the mother and son fighting over the shotgun, and then saw the man run.

"He's got my shotgun and wants you all to kill him," Judd said Christina Haegele told deputies.

Christina Haegele suffered bruised ribs when her son kicked her and grabbed the gun.

Deputies set up a perimeter around the area and found Haegele only a couple of streets from his home on Laura Lane.

Deputies ordered him to drop the gun.

Instead, he pointed it at Green.

Both deputies then fired their handguns, hitting Haegele.

Judd said deputies acted properly.

"Deputies did what they should have done," Judd said. "We weren't able to stop an unfortunate set of events."

Haegele, who graduated from Crystal River High School, had a string of involuntary commitments in Polk, according to records. His mother moved to Winter Haven in February 2017 while he was at FSU, but the commitments began when he returned. Records show that involuntary commitments occurred on:

Sept. 25: At their Jay Drive home, Christina Haegele reported that her son was not taking his medication and had kicked out a window. He reported that his mother made him want to kill himself.

Oct. 17: At their Jay Drive home, Chance Haegele told his mother he wanted to kill himself.

Nov. 6: At a relative's home in Poinciana, Haegele said he wanted to kill himself.

Nov. 29: Haegele was involuntarily committed under the the Marchman Act, a state law that allows for involuntary commitment of residents undergoing drug abuse crises.

Feb. 10: At a relative's home in Poinciana, he contacted a crisis center and said he wanted to kill himself. When deputies arrived he said it was a prank call, but then said he didn't want to live any more.

It's the second time this month Polk sheriff's deputies have killed a man.

On March 5, a Lakeland man who threatened deputies with a knife was shot and killed. Ryan Smith, 44, was shot multiple times and later died at Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center.

The State Attorney's Office routinely investigates all law enforcement shootings to determine whether police properly used lethal force. The investigation should take several weeks.

John Chambliss can be reached at john.chambliss@theledger.com or 863-802-7588.