Source: Caleb Holder, KCBD

Source: Caleb Holder, KCBD

Source: Caleb Holder, KCBD

Source: Caleb Holder, KCBD

LITTLEFIELD, TX (KCBD) - A stabbing suspect has died after shots were fired by Littlefield police on Wednesday morning.

Police received the report of a stabbing in progress at Our Place Community Center shortly after 8 a.m.

A release from the Littlefield Police Department says officers chased the suspect, 18-year-old Angel Uolla, on foot. They say the suspect assaulted officers during the arrest and shots were fired by Littlefield officers.

A statement from Texas DPS says the suspect refused verbal commands to drop the knife and was shot by an officer.

The knife used by the suspect was secured at the scene.

Officers administered first aid, but the suspect died.

The Texas Rangers will conduct the officer-involved shooting investigation and report their findings to the district attorney's office.

Three stabbing victims are being treated at area hospitals.

Littlefield Police Chief Ross Hester said the first two stabbing victims, both female, were seriously injured. They were both taken to a hospital in Littlefield. One was then flown to Lubbock for surgery. The third victim, a male, also suffered numerous knife wounds and was treated in Littlefield. Another female has no physical injuries but was taken to a Littlefield hospital and treated for shock.

Police have identified the victims as:

Norma Jean Bartley, 75

Oneida Lopez, 38

Omar Flores, 18

Mary Lupe Garcia, 58

Norma Jean Bartley is in critical condition as of Thursday afternoon. Other victims are in stable condition.

Chief Hester said there is a relationship between the suspect and the victims but he could not go into detail at this time.

He said no officers were injured, but he could not discuss events that happened once the suspect left the building, since those events are now under investigation by the Texas Rangers.

Texas DPS released this statement on Wednesday afternoon:

The Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) Texas Rangers were called today to assist the Littlefield Police Department with an investigation of an officer involved shooting. Today March 21, at approximately 9:00 a.m., an 18-year-old male went into the Lamb County Housing and Community Services Center in Littlefield and began assaulting individuals with a knife. Three victims were injured and two of the victims were transported to a local hospital. Littlefield Police Officers responded to the scene and located the suspect approximately two blocks from the Community Services Center, still armed with a knife. The suspect refused verbal commands to drop the knife and was shot by an officer. The suspect was taken to a local hospital and was later pronounced deceased. This is an ongoing investigation by the Littlefield Police Department and the Texas Rangers.

Copyright 2018 KCBD. All rights reserved.