A man who barricaded himself into his Glenrock home and prompted a six-hour long standoff was found dead Thursday evening, police said.

The Glenrock Police Department had responded to the man’s house on Fort Laramie Street in a Glenrock neighborhood just after noon on Thursday after receiving reports that he was brandishing a weapon. As officers tried to make contact with him, the suspect continued brandishing the weapon in the home and started barricading himself inside, police said.

Police called Natrona County SWAT, which responded with two armored vehicles. At one point, police said in a press release, the suspect opened fire on officers as they tried again to talk with him. No officers were hurt.

Soon after, the house caught fire and another gunshot rang out from inside, police said.

The building, an off-yellow home with a brown roof, was still pouring smoke from its upstairs windows at 4 p.m. SWAT officers carrying fire hoses sprayed water into the windows, but smoke continued to spill out of the upper floor into the evening.

As neighbors and onlookers stood on street corners and roof tops — one dragging his grill into his driveway to make brisket — police called out to the man inside over a loudspeaker.

They continued to call out to him as a team of 10 SWAT officers and fire fighters prepared to enter the house just after 6:30 p.m. The officers had previously hooked chains from the armored vehicle to the front of the house. They pulled off what appeared to be a door and then cleared the area of debris, throwing a gas can, a small chair and a rake out into the yard behind them.

The small entry team donned respirators and entered the building as the officer on the loudspeaker continued to call out.

“We know you’re in there. Come out with your hands up and nobody’s going to get hurt,” he said.

Within minutes, most of the team had returned outside, but without the man inside. Police confirmed Friday that the suspect was found dead but did not release a cause of death.

A neighbor described the suspect as a sharp, elderly man. A woman who was friends with another neighbor and said she sold the man his house several years ago told the Star-Tribune that the man had struggled in recent years.

At the scene, both Glenrock officers and investigators from the state Division of Criminal Investigation declined to comment. A DCI agent said the agency was taking over the investigation. Messages left for the DCI’s Cheyenne office were not returned.