MANNFORD — Authorities are investigating after a pair of Mannford police officers shot and killed a man reportedly armed with a knife on Wednesday afternoon.

Mannford police about 2:30 p.m. received a call from a woman who was concerned about a man who reportedly showed up at her residence near the 100 block of Greenbrier Circle to apparently talk about a vehicle for sale.

The woman said the man made her uncomfortable, prompting her to call 911, said Marty Wilson, a special agent with the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation.

Two officers soon arrived at the scene and encountered the man, who walked about 100 yards south of where he was standing while the officers followed. Wilson said the man was not cooperating with police and at some point pulled out a “large knife” and “made a move toward one of the officers.”

The officers opened fire at the man an unknown number of times, killing him. He was identified as Mark Allen Lunn, 47.

The OSBI in a news release said Lunn refused to comply with police orders. Lunn then started walking from the scene pulling off his clothing, the OSBI said.

About 100 yards from where the officers first met Lunn, he pulled off his shirt, pulled a large knife from his pants, and turned toward the officers, the OSBI said.

Officers told him to drop the knife several times. Instead, Lunn moved toward the officers. Both officers fired their weapon at Lunn. They have not been identified.

Wilson said he did not believe the shooting was captured on camera.

OSBI agents are interviewing people in the area who witnessed the incident. Once the investigation is complete, agents will compile a comprehensive report and deliver it to the district attorney. The district attorney will determine if the shooting was justified.

Shortly after the shooting, Mannford police alerted OSBI and requested the agency take over the investigation.

Wilson said the last known address for Lunn was not in Mannford, but he did not say where he may have lived.

Lunn appeared to have been involved in another incident in the same area Tuesday night. Wilson said Mannford police had encountered him twice in the past couple of days, but it was not immediately clear under what circumstances.

Mannford is about 22 miles west of Tulsa in Creek County.

State records show Lunn has been in and out of prison since the early ‘90s for multiple convictions of aggravated assault and battery on a police officer, in addition to assault and battery with a deadly weapon.

He was charged in the shooting of a Perkins police officer in 1999.

He most recently was released from prison in 2015.