An Abilene police officer shot and killed a man with a gun at a south-side apartment complex Friday after the man moved his gun in a "threatening manner," Abilene Police Chief Stan Standridge said Friday.

Police identified the victim as Michael Leroy McGinnis Jr., 29. No officers were injured.

Standridge said two officers were serving three arrest warrants for McGinnis at the South Creek Apartments west of South Seventh and Leggett streets at about 8:50 a.m.

A resident in the apartment confirmed McGinnis was in a back bedroom. He was located and found to be armed with a handgun.

"Officers took up positions outside the bedroom in the threshold of the bedroom door behind a ballistic shield," Standridge said, and the initial two officers were joined by three others.

After negotiating with the suspect for 11 minutes in the hope of eliciting a "peaceful surrender," McGinnis moved the handgun in a "threatening manner" toward the officers, the chief said.

One "responded by firing three rounds in defense of himself and the other officers present," Standridge said.

All three bullets struck the suspect, who died at the scene even though police initiated life-saving measures and called for medical assistance.

The negotiating officer did a "phenomenal job trying to de-escalate (the situation)," Standridge said, using what police term "verbal judo."

"He utilized everything he could to try to de-escalate the situation into a successful surrender," he said. "... 11 minutes seems brief, but when you're negotiating with a person and everything is done at gunpoint, it's a very perilous time."

The five officers involved in the incident have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure, Standridge said..

The officer who fired his gun is an eight-year veteran of the force, he said.

The incident is being investigated by the Texas Rangers as well as by APD's criminal investigations division and its office of professional standards, also known as internal affairs.

The three investigations are standard in such events, Standridge said, and the incident will be "dissected to the nth degree."

"We're going to investigate our own — rightfully so, statutorily we're required to do so," Standridge said. "But we're also going to have an outside entity investigate what we did."

Two of the three warrants for McGinnis were issued last week and involved two counts of indecency with a child. One of the two victims is 4 years old, Standridge said.

The third warrant is a revocation of parole for an eight-year probation sentence in an first-degree felony arson case in June 2015, Standridge said. The two charges of indecency with a child prompted the revocation of probation warrant, he said.

The indecency charges had bonds of $75,000 each, he said.

All five officers were wearing body cameras, and the events were captured on at least two of them, Standridge said.

He called this a tragic event for the McGinnis family and the officers involved.

The APD has begun working with the city of Abilene's human resources department through its employee assistance program to help the involved officers begin to cope with the incident, Standridge said.

"Obviously, this is not the first time for us, so we know how to walk through these next few days, weeks and even months with these employees," he said.

All will go to crisis counseling. The crisis counselor will tell Standridge when it is appropriate for each to return to work, he said.

"We're invested in these officers and we want them to succeed long-term," he said. "We're not in a hurry to get them back. That counselor can tell us when it's right for them."

Standridge said the last officer-involved shooting occurred in January 2017.