GENESEE TWP., MI -- Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton has cleared nine police officers who shot and killed a bank robbery suspect who was armed with pliers.

Kevin Hall, 40, was shot and killed following a 90-minute standoff with police on March 23 near Richfield and Center roads in Genesee Township.

"I've ruled that the shooting was justifiable," Leyton said.

The standoff started after police say Hall robbed a nearby Chemical Bank branch on Genesee Road earlier in the day.

Police previously said Hall entered the bank at 8:55 a.m., grabbed a teller by the shoulders and demanded money. Hall fled the scene in a white van after getting the money. A description of the man and vehicle was dispatched to Genesee Township police.

Kevin Hall

"At some point, the girlfriend called central dispatch and said she had talked to Hall and he said he had just robbed a bank, had no reason to live and had a gun," Leyton said.

Genesee Township police spotted the van and tried to make a traffic stop near Center and Richfield roads. During the traffic stop, two other individuals, a male and female, exited the white van and were taken into custody, police previously said.

The two have since been released from police custody, pending further investigation.

Hall then tried to flee after the traffic stop, but a police cruiser hit the van and prevented him from fleeing.

Hall, who police believe had a gun, remained in the van. Police from multiple agencies arrived and began blocking all nearby crossroads.

"He refuses to get out of the van, says he has a gun and reaches for his waistband," Leyton said of Hall. "At some point, there is a 911 communication that the suspect has a history of barricading himself in homes, that he was going to commit suicide by cop and wasn't going back to prison."

Police previously said Hall stayed in the van and had contact with 911 dispatch during the 90-minute standoff. There was a Michigan State Police negotiator on the scene who also talked to Hall.

Around 10:30 a.m., Hall exited the vehicle and charged at officers with a weapon, Michigan State Police Lt. Dave Kaiser previously said. Four Michigan State Police officers and five Flint police officers opened fire, striking and killing Hall.

"One of the rear doors, Hall aggressively gets out the back door with a silver object in his hand," Leyton said. "He aggressively advances toward police. The officers see that silver object and believe it to be a gun and that's when they fire."

Hall fell to the ground and when police walked up to him they found a silver pair of vice-grip style pliers, Leyton said.

Leyton said about 40 shots were fired at Hall, but he did not know how many bullets struck him.

"When he raised his hand they fired," Leyton said. "This was all split seconds. Up came his arm and they fired. I've determined their decision to shoot was justified."

No weapon was found in the van or in Hall's possession, Leyton said.

State records show Hall was released from prison on Sept. 27, 2017, after serving an eight-year sentence for unarmed robbery and fleeing from police. Hall had prison and probation sentences dating back to 1999.