Mark D. Wilson

mdwilson@statesman.com

4 p.m. update: Interim Austin Police Chief Brian Manley on Friday confirmed that a man who was killed in an officer-involved shooting after a SWAT standoff at a Southeast Austin home last month had left his weapon inside the house when he stepped out and was shot.

Manley also identified the man killed as 28-year-old Hugo Rene Alvarez.

The incident began around 10:49 p.m. on March 25 when police responded to a duplex in the 5500 block of Ponciana Drive for an “unknown urgent” 911 call. The caller, a man, hung up immediately after contacting police. Investigators believe Alvarez made the call, Manley said.

When police arrived, they spoke to one resident of the duplex who told them that he didn’t call them. The three officers at the scene tried to contact the residents of the other side of the duplex, too, but no one answered the door.

As police were leaving, someone fired shots from inside the residence, police have said.

A few hours after the incident, Manley said one of those bullets struck an officer in his right arm. Another officer broke his hand and injured his knee as he sought cover, Manley said.

Police evacuated the area and the department’s SWAT team responded. A 2-hour standoff ensued, during which police addressed the suspect using a loudspeaker and tried to get him to exit the house. Officers at the scene made six reports of gunshots inside the residence, including one at 1:16 a.m. in which an officer reported “a really loud bang, followed by a scream,” Manley said.

Police eventually used a SWAT robot to break down the front door. Video from the robot showed the suspect coming out of the front door with a woman, Manley said.

“At 2 a.m., there was a broadcast over the radio from one of our officers stating, ‘he’s got a hostage, he’s coming out toward the front door,’” Manley said. “And moments later, the suspect exited the front door, with a female directly in front of him, and a SWAT officer fired one shot.”

The man, later identified as Alvarez, was pronounced dead from that gunshot, Manley said.

Manley said police officials reviewed video from the scene and it does not clearly show that Alvarez was no longer armed.

Police at the time of the shooting would not confirm whether the man was armed when he was shot, saying that detail was part of an ongoing investigation. Investigators did not want to release that information as not to influence the officer’s statement.

The officer who fired the shot that killed Alvarez made his statement today, Manley said.

Manley did not identify the two officers who were injured, but said their injuries were not life-threatening.

The woman, who police believe is Alvarez’s mother, appeared to not have serious injuries after the incident, Manley said.

The incident was the third police shooting in March and the fifth officer-involved shooting this year.