Wise County deputies have been cleared of any wrongdoing following a fatal officer-involved shooting last month in Big Stone Gap, Virginia.

Deputies shot and killed Nathan Curtis Castle, 34, of Duffield, on March 26 during a traffic stop, authorities said. Commonwealth’s Attorney Chuck Slemp released his findings regarding Castle’s death on Wednesday.

The Virginia State Police investigated the shooting at Wise County Sheriff Ronnie Oakes’ request.

“Since receiving the investigation report from the Virginia State Police, my office has been working diligently to review the information to assess the facts, conduct our own independent and unbiased review, and thoroughly examine with great care the use of force to determine under Virginia law whether a crime has been committed,” Slemp said.

Criminal charges will not be filed against the officers who discharged their weapons, Slemp said in a letter to Oakes.

A formal report states the deputies involved in the shooting “to be justified in their actions.”

“When an individual threatened them with death or serious bodily harm, they acted in an appropriate manner in accordance with the laws of Virginia,” the report states.

During a traffic stop, the driver provoked an armed confrontation and pointed his shotgun at the deputies, Slemp’s report states.

“They acted only in self-defense,” Slemp states. “In fact, the deputies would have been justified in using deadly force far earlier than they actually did. They went above and beyond the legal standard in their attempts to resolve this without the use of deadly force. In the end, it was the driver’s act of pointing a shotgun the deputies had seen him loading which required the deputies to respond.”

Slemp declined to identify the officers, noting his concerns for their safety. He said that the “individual involved has very strong and documented ties to known criminal gangs.”

“It is very unfortunate that a life was lost,” Slemp said during a press conference Wednesday. “We pray for the family of this suspect. But we also commend the actions of the officers involved in protecting themselves and others.”

A deputy had attempted to get Castle, who was driving erratically on old Route 610, to pull his vehicle over, Virginia State Police reported. Castle sped away. When he later stopped, he got out of his truck holding a shotgun, police said. A deputy fired at Castle, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

Two hours after the shooting, the Scott County Sheriff’s Office received a domestic call related to Castle.

“Dispatch sent one of our officers to Duffield sometime around 8 last night in reference to a neighbor calling in concern for a wife, or a lady who lived at the residence,” Scott County Capt. Jim Benton told the Bristol Herald Courier. “The complaint was that the guy had left in a hurry and had hit her car on the way out. They were concerned about her welfare.”

No one was home when officers arrived. Not long after, Benton said his officer and a state trooper learned about the shooting and suspected the incidents were related.

“Our officer went to the scene in Wise County and was able to identify Mr. Castle,” he said.