Winston-Salem police officer Dalton McGuire fatally shot Edward Van McCrae three times after McCrae ignored numerous orders to stop reaching for a handgun during a traffic stop about six months ago, Forsyth County District Attorney Jim O’Neill said Monday.

O’Neill cleared McGuire in the shooting, concluding that McGuire had reason to perceive McCrae as a “serious, imminent danger.” But Edward McCrae’s family is planning to pursue a wrongful-death lawsuit in Forsyth Superior Court, the family’s attorney said. The shooting has sparked peaceful protests from groups such as Black Lives Matter Winston-Salem and calls for the body-camera footage to be released. McCrae’s death also had a racial component — McCrae was black and McGuire is white.

Over the last several years, protests have erupted over a disproportionate number of officer-involved shootings of black people, including that of Mike Brown in Ferguson, Mo.; Tamir Rice in Cleveland, Ohio; and Philando Castile in Falcon Heights, Minn.

O’Neill’s decision came Monday during a lengthy news conference held in Courtroom 5A in the Forsyth County Hall of Justice. O’Neill had a power-point presentation that included a narrative of what happened along with clips from McGuire’s body-camera footage. O’Neill later played the entire body-camera footage, which ran 2 minutes and 16 seconds.

O’Neill said that McCrae refused to comply with McGuire’s command to stop reaching for a handgun in his right back pocket during a struggle between the two men. At some point, the gun fell to the ground, and McCrae picked it up, despite McGuire’s orders not to do so. McGuire fired his gun four times, hitting McCrae three times in the arm, low mid-back and spine. McCrae’s gun was loaded with seven rounds, O’Neill said.

O’Neill said he based his decision not to charge McGuire on several things, including an investigation by the N.C. State Bureau of Investigation, McCrae’s autopsy report, analysis of witness statements, crime-scene photos and McGuire’s body-camera footage. O’Neill’s decision means that McGuire, a patrol officer with the department since March 2016, is now back on active duty. McGuire had been placed on administrative leave and then administrative duty, which is routine in officer-involved shootings. O’Neill said McGuire had a clean disciplinary record with the department.

“At the end of the day, this is not a day for joy and happiness because this community lost a human being,” O’Neill said. Several members of McCrae’s family sat on the fourth row beside John Vermitsky, the attorney who represents the family. O’Neill said he had a chance to talk to the McCrae family and called them outstanding people who loved McCrae and strongly supported him. The family declined comment after the hearing.

Vermitsky said during the news conference that he is disappointed in O’Neill’s decision not to charge McGuire criminally. He said his law firm conducted its own investigation, which included talking to witnesses and viewing the body-camera footage, and came to a different conclusion than O’Neill.

“It is important that those differences are addressed through the civil system and not out in the public,” he said. “We’ve been very grateful, and I know the family has been very grateful that violence hasn’t happened in our community and on our streets. We asked that the community bear patience with us.”

David Freedman, attorney for McGuire, said McGuire appreciates that he was cleared but takes no joy in it.

“He did what he had to do,” Freedman said. “I’ve sat with a number of officers in similar situations, and not once have I seen any officer act with joy or be happy with what they had to do. Quite the opposite, I’ve sat with a number of officers who were crying. It is not easy for an officer when they discharge a weapon and there is an injury or a death.”

‘Stop reaching!’

According to O’Neill, this is what happened on March 30:

At 10:30 p.m., McGuire was doing his routine patrol. He was driving east on New Walkertown Road when he pulled in behind a gray-colored Toyota Camry. He did a license check. The N.C. Department of Motor Vehicles showed that the car had an expired registration and that the owner had a suspended driver’s license.

McGuire pulled the car over at the intersection of Bowen Boulevard and Douglas Hill Road near Ashley Elementary School. In the driver’s seat was a woman. Another man was in the front passenger seat. McCrae was in the right back passenger seat. Neither the woman nor the man has been identified, and O’Neill didn’t identify them Monday, though he did say that the man is a relative of McCrae’s.

The driver told investigators that she thought McGuire was too aggressive during the stop, O’Neill said. He didn’t provide further details.

The front-seat passenger was recorded at the Winston-Salem Police Department lamenting why McCrae, whom he referred to as “Unc,” acted the way he did. He later told SBI investigators that he urged McCrae to chill during the traffic stop because the driver had a valid driver’s license and everything would be fine.

McGuire approached the vehicle from the passenger side and saw McCrae appear to transfer an object from his right hand to his left hand. McGuire believed McCrae was trying to hide illegal drugs.

McGuire flashed his light in the back passenger seat and the video shows McGuire asking McCrae what he was hiding. McCrae denied he was hiding anything and turned his back. McGuire then ordered McCrae out of the car. He asked several times before he unlocked the door from the inside and grabbbed McCrae’s right arm to pull him out of the car.

McCrae immediately resisted, pushing back against McGuire. The two struggled to the ground and McGuire saw McCrae reaching for his right back pocket. McCrae began to pull out a silver .25-caliber handgun.

McGuire shouted “Stop reaching!” six times on the video. McCrae refused. The two men continued wrestling, with McGuire grabbing McCrae’s right forearm with both hands to keep him from pulling out the gun. The gun came out and fell to the ground. McGuire shouted “Gun!” several times and McCrae stood up.

McGuire yelled four times for McCrae not to go for the gun on the ground. McCrae grabbed the gun with two hands.

“Don’t make me do it!” McGuire is heard yelling on the video. McGuire fired his gun four times. McCrae is hit three times — once in the arm, once in the low mid-back and once in the spine. The last two gunshot wounds killed McCrae. One bullet went through one of his lungs and likely made McCrae immediately drop to the ground.

The gun was later found in a drainage grate beneath McCrae’s right arm. An autopsy showed that McCrae had traces of marijuana and cocaine in his system.

O’Neill said McCrae also had a long criminal history, including 11 misdemeanor and felony convictions for assault on a law-enforcement officer. In another incident, a Winston-Salem police officer reported he tried to arrest McCrae and McCrae attempted to run the officer over with a car. Another officer reported that McCrae punched him in the chest during an arrest attempt.