Crime & Safety Man Who Killed Fulton Girlfriend Fatally Shot By Tampa Police The South Fulton police department says a man who killed his girlfriend and shot her sons on Easter was killed by police in Tampa, Florida. Reply

ATLANTA, GA — The South Fulton police department says a man who killed his girlfriend and shot her sons early on Easter Sunday was killed hours later by police in Tampa, Florida, after a gunfight. Georgia authorities say Timothy Wyatt, 41, of Forest Park, Georgia, was shot and killed by Tampa police after a chase and gun battle in which four officers fired at Wyatt.

A spokesman for the South Fulton Police Department said Wyatt killed his girlfriend, 34-year-old Tawanna Collins,and shot at her two sons, ages 12 and 14. The boys were taken to Grady Memorial Hospital, where they are recovering, WSB TV reports. Collins' body was discovered around 7:30 a.m. Sunday in the 3500 block of Keels Lane, South Fulton. South Fulton Police sent out a "Be on the Lookout" alert for Wyatt after he fled the area. Police suspected he was heading to Tampa. It is unclear, however, what the connection was to the area.

Just before 6:15 p.m. on Sunday, Tampa Police officers spotted Wyatt's white 2017 Chevy Impala near Hillsborough Avenue and North 15th Street (see related story). Upon seeing a police car, Wyatt fled. A pursuit began and Wyatt reportedly fired his gun at Tampa Police Sgt. Terrence Covais. The Tampa Police helicopter responded and began tracking Wyatt's car from the air. Officers on the ground backed off from their pursuit and Wyatt slowed down. He stopped at the intersection of North 15th Street and East 28th Avenue in Ybor Heights and got out of his car while firing at officers, authorities said. He continued to fire at police while attempting to carjack an SUV from bystander Katrina Majurie, 32, of 3101 N. 17th St., Tampa.

Tampa police returned fire, hitting Wyatt. Both Tampa Police officers and Florida Highway Patrol troopers attempted CPR on Wyatt, authorities say, but he died of his gunshot wounds. Two handguns were found near his body. Five Tampa police officers have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure in a shooting. Four of the officers shot at Wyatt. The fifth was shot at by Wyatt.

They are Sgt. Terrence Covais, Officer Christopher Cornelius, Officer Nicholas Disparti, Officer Ryan Kuhn and Officer Nathan Toole. "We're very fortunate no innocent people were injured. We're very fortunate no police officers were injured. It's a sad outcome, but this is what our cops deal with every single day," Tampa Police Chief Brian Dugan said. "There is no routine day of work for them. Any time you stop a car, you never know what you're going to get involved with."