A 51-year-old cab driver died Saturday at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn after a Dolton police officer used a stun gun to subdue him following a CT scan, according to a lawsuit.

The unidentified officer deployed the weapon after Solomon Agwomoh, who was in police custody after being involved in a crash in the village earlier that morning, "became agitated," according to the suit filed Wednesday in Cook County circuit court.

Advertisement

Agwomoh, who drove for Chicago Carriage Cab Company, was involved in a crash with another vehicle at the intersection of Cottage Grove Avenue and Sibley Boulevard in Dolton around 12:40 a.m., according to the lawsuit, which names the village of Dolton as the defendant.

Agwomoh was apparently conscious following the crash, and a witness who encountered him said that while shaken, he appeared to be "in a normal state of health," said Bob Napleton, a lawyer who filed the lawsuit on behalf of Agwomoh's family.

Advertisement

Around 1 a.m., an ambulance took Agwomoh to the hospital, where he underwent a CT scan in the presence and custody of Dolton police, the lawsuit stated.

It's unclear exactly what happened next, but according to the lawsuit, a Dolton officer "willfully and wantonly employed a Taser without justifiable cause to deliver a lethal electric current" to Agwomoh, a father of four from South Holland.

The cause and manner of Agwomoh's death is pending, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner's office said.

When contacted about the incident, a spokeswoman for Advocate Christ said the matter was an "open investigation" and referred questions to the Dolton Police Department.

Dolton Police Chief Robert Collins said he was aware of the lawsuit but had yet to read it. Agwomoh had been in custody for suspected DUI at the time of the incident, Collins said.

"The officer did everything by the book," he said in an email. "In the law enforcement community, we've come to learn that even the cases in which officers do things by the book, there is still litigation."

Collins said the officer deployed a stun gun on Agwomoh after he became "uncooperative and combative" with the hospital staff who were treating him.

"The Dolton police officer present intervened and eventually had to use a Taser on the man because of his aggression," Collins said. "The Taser was ineffective against the man, and thus the man began fighting with the officer until hospital security arrived to assist."

Advertisement

After Agwomoh was eventually restrained with the assistance of hospital security, Collins said, hospital staff administered him "some sort of sedative" in an effort to calm him down.

"Shortly thereafter the man (lost consciousness)," he said. "Efforts to save him were met with negative results."

When informed of Collins' statements that Agwomoh had died shortly after he was administered a sedative by hospital staff, Napleton laughed.

"This is why we have lawsuits and trials and juries, to sort out these competing versions of events," he said. "We certainly believe the Taser played a role in Mr. Agwomoh's demise."

Daily Southtown Twice-weekly News updates from the south suburbs delivered every Monday and Wednesday By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

The lawsuit does not name the hospital as a responsible party in Agwomoh's death.

Napleton said he believed the Dolton police department bore "full or partial responsibility for this man's death," and that the officer's use of a stun gun was the "triggering event" that precipitated the events that led to his death.

Advertisement

"The truth will come out," Napleton said. "We're going to get to the bottom of it."

Because Agwomoh had been in police custody at the time of his death, the Illinois State Police's Public Integrity Task Force will investigate the matter.

The Dolton officer who fired the stun gun has been placed on administrative leave until the conclusion of the investigation, Collins said.

zkoeske@tribpub.com

Twitter @ZakKoeske