Lincoln Wright

South Bend Tribune

SOUTH BEND — Thursday's officer-involved shooting that left one man dead was ruled justifiable.

The St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office announced Friday it would not be filing charges against officer James Dennin who shot and killed 56-year-old Rafael Ramirez after Ramirez reportedly came at the officer armed with two knives.

Police were called to the 2000 block of Western Avenue around 1 p.m. to reports of a man armed with a knife threatening to kill people inside a small apartment complex.

Dennin along with officer Ernesto Ramirez and Sgt. Kevin Gibbons arrived at the scene and went to the apartments, which are on the second floor of the building and accessed by a wooden staircase in the back.

While walking up the stairs, officers were confronted by Ramirez who had a knife in each hand, Ken Cotter, the St. Joseph County Prosecutor, said at a news conference. Officers told Ramirez numerous times to stay back and put down the knives, he said.

Ramirez would not follow commands, Cotter said, and got roughly within 5 feet of Dennin with both knives raised above his head. The officers threatened to shoot if he didn't back up and Ramirez refused.

In an audio recording from an officer-equipped device, an officer is heard saying "I'll shoot you."

"Shoot me," Ramirez is heard responded.

The prosecutor's office released the audio recording and dash-cam footage to the public, which can be viewed at www.southbendtribune.com.

After Ramirez continued to approach, Dennin fired two shots hitting Ramirez in the chest and abdomen.

Per protocol with all police involved shootings, The St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Unit was called to investigate. Multiple witnesses were interviewed, including the person who called police.

"Based upon the evidence that we have gathered, based upon the witnesses statement, based upon the audio we were able to obtain... we have made a determination that the officers acted in self defense," Cotter said.

Some witnesses told investigators Ramirez may have had some mental issues, Cotter said, but investigators have not been able to make any definitive determinations.

Officers were dispatched to the apartments earlier that day because Ramirez was reportedly threatening residents with a hammer. Officers arrived around 10:30 a.m., but Ramirez had settled down and family members said they were going to get him treatment, Cotter said. Because the situation was resolved at the time no arrests were made.

The officers involved are on routine administrative leave per department policy with a return to duty pending that review of policy, training and a medical clearance.

This is the second officer-involved shooting in South Bend in a little more than a week. On March 27, officer Samuel Chaput shot and injured 27-year-old Terrance Eppenger during a physical altercation in the 1300 block of Elwood Avenue. As of Friday, Eppenger was listed in serious condition.

Chaput received cuts and bruises in the altercation and was released from the hospital that day. The prosecutor’s office ruled the shooting justifiable. Many witnesses told investigators they believed Chaput was in danger.

lwright@SBTinfo.com

574-235-6324

@LWrightSBT