A Monroe County grand jury last month determined that the Greece police officer who fatally shot an 81-year-old man in April was justified in the shooting.

On April 5, Greece Police Officer Jeffrey Fraser shot Robert Litolff, who was carrying a rifle outside his Betwood Lane residence, during an early morning confrontation with police.

Greece Police Chief Patrick Phelan said officers were sent to Litolff's Betwood Lane residence just after 2 a.m. after a man called 911 to say that he planned to kill his wife.

Officer Jeffrey Fraser was the first officer to arrive on scene and was confronted outside by Litolff who was carrying a rifle. Litolff refused to drop the gun and pointed the weapon at Fraser, Phelan said. Fraser fired 17 shots, striking Litolff twice — once in the foot and once in the chest. The officer was not injured but Litolff died at the scene.

It was later determined his rifle was unloaded.

A Monroe County grand jury reviewed the case and on May 4 determined that Fraser's actions were justified, according to the Monroe County District Attorney's Office.

Fraser, who was initially placed on administrative leave, a standard practice after an officer is involved in a shooting, has returned to work full time, said Sgt. Jared René. Currently working in an administrative position, Fraser has been employed by the department since 2015. Phelan said.

More:Family remembers Bob Litolff, 81-year-old Greece man killed by police

More:Police: Greece officer fired 17 shots in fatal shooting of 81-year-old man

A U.S. Army veteran, Boy Scout leader and active supporter of the autism community, Litolff also mentored young men who came from broken homes. He was a quality control technician at DuPont for 30 years before retiring.

Litolff and his wife, Jane, were married for 58 years and had five children, 10 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.

Betwood Lane is a residential road off Long Pond Road, across the road from Greece Athena middle and high schools.

VFREILE@Gannett.com