Body camera video of an officer-involved shooting shows a man wielding a screwdriver charging at an LMPD officer.Police were called just before 7:45 p.m. Sunday to Textile Avenue off Dixie Highway in Pleasure Ridge Park on a report of a possibly intoxicated, disorderly person.Police encountered 45-year-old Russell T. Bowman holding a screwdriver. Police said Bowman told officers to shoot him before running into a wooded area. Officers followed Bowman and caught up with him on Crawford Avenue. They told him to drop the weapon repeatedly, as can be seen and heard on body camera video.Three officers used their Tasers on Bowman, but they were ineffective. Officers continued to order Bowman to drop his screwdriver, but he can be heard on the video shouting, “No,” at them repeatedly. Click here to watch the body camera video. WARNING the video at this link is GRAPHICBowman can be seen on the body camera video charging with his screwdriver raised at Officer Matthew Aden, who then fired his weapon. Another officer at the scene, Devin Dawes, also fired his weapon at Bowman. The officers rushed to offer aid to Bowman until EMS arrived. Bowman was pronounced dead at the scene. Aden and Dawes are assigned to the Third Division. Aden has been with LMPD since February 2015, while Dawes has been with LMPD since September 2015. Neither officer has a history of disciplinary action.Both officers have been placed on administrative duty while LMPD's Public Integrity Unit investigates.

Body camera video of an officer-involved shooting shows a man wielding a screwdriver charging at an LMPD officer.

Police were called just before 7:45 p.m. Sunday to Textile Avenue off Dixie Highway in Pleasure Ridge Park on a report of a possibly intoxicated, disorderly person.

Advertisement

Police encountered 45-year-old Russell T. Bowman holding a screwdriver.

Police said Bowman told officers to shoot him before running into a wooded area.

Officers followed Bowman and caught up with him on Crawford Avenue. They told him to drop the weapon repeatedly, as can be seen and heard on body camera video.

Three officers used their Tasers on Bowman, but they were ineffective.

Officers continued to order Bowman to drop his screwdriver, but he can be heard on the video shouting, “No,” at them repeatedly.

Click here to watch the body camera video. WARNING the video at this link is GRAPHIC

Bowman can be seen on the body camera video charging with his screwdriver raised at Officer Matthew Aden, who then fired his weapon.

Another officer at the scene, Devin Dawes, also fired his weapon at Bowman.

The officers rushed to offer aid to Bowman until EMS arrived. Bowman was pronounced dead at the scene.

Aden and Dawes are assigned to the Third Division.

Aden has been with LMPD since February 2015, while Dawes has been with LMPD since September 2015. Neither officer has a history of disciplinary action.

Both officers have been placed on administrative duty while LMPD's Public Integrity Unit investigates.