Daniel Joseph Carver, a 29-year-old white man, was shot by Los Angeles police Monday, April 9, in the 6500 block of Corbin Avenue in Winnetka, according to Los Angeles County coroner's records.

Officers were driving in the area about 10 a.m. when they got a "LoJack hit" alerting them that a vehicle had been stolen, LAPD officials said. They pursued the vehicle for about seven minutes, then chased the driver on foot after he ran from the vehicle, which was identified as a brown Ford Explorer.

The officers chased the driver, later identified as Carver, into an alley, where police said he pulled a gun and shot at them, wounding one officer in the left leg. The officers then returned fire, striking Carver.

Carver was pronounced dead at the scene at 10:47 a.m.

A revolver, which had six spent shell casings, was recovered. The officer who was shot in the leg was taken to a local hospital. Another officer suffered arm abrasions and a shoulder injury and also was treated at a hospital.

The last time an on-duty LAPD officer was struck by gunfire was in December, when Officer Joy Park was shot and wounded in the Westlake district as she and her training officer conducted an unrelated investigation.

LAPD Chief Charlie Beck later described that shooting as an "unprovoked and cowardly attack."

The officers in the April shooting were assigned body cameras and had another camera in their patrol car, said LAPD Capt. Patricia Sandoval, but investigators have yet to review the devices to see what they might have captured.

If there is video of the shooting, it would not be eligible for release under the LAPD's new rules for making recordings public after a shooting or other critical incident involving officers because the policy, adopted March 20, didn't go into effect until 30 days later.

Police later linked Carver to a series of robberies in the Valley area. In one robbery, on March 25, an armed man dubbed "The Shaggy Bandit" robbed a Game Stop store, taking more than $1,000 in cash and video games, police said. Carver also was believed to be the suspect in a post office robbery.

The officers involved in Carver's shooting were identified as Police Officer II Eduardo Guillen and Police Officer II Oscar Granillo. Both officers are assigned to Topanga Division, according to a news release.

— Times staff writer Kate Mather contributed to this report.

Contact the Homicide Report. Follow @nicolesantacruz and @latimeshomicide on Twitter.