Corinne S Kennedy and Colin Atagi

Palm Springs Desert Sun

The Riverside County Coroner's office has identified a man fatally shot by a Cathedral City police officer on April 8 as Carlos Roman Urias.

The 24-year-old Cathedral City man was shot by police after he was reported as a domestic violence suspect. Urias pointed a fake gun at authorities and bystanders on that Sunday morning, prompting police to fire shots.

The shooting occurred around 6:30 a.m. after officers responded to a domestic violence call in the 33-500 block of Wishing Well Trail, according to Cathedral City police. They found the victim waiting for officers at a nearby location after having escaped from the home with other family members.

She "was in obvious pain," police said.

Crime news: Cathedral City shooting hospitalizes 1 in critical condition

The victim told police the suspect was armed with a handgun. As they surrounded the home, he exited with the gun and ignored requests in English and Spanish to drop the weapon.

An officer "fired a single round" as the man pointed his gun at the crowd and hit him in his torso, police said.

Paramedics treated him at the scene before rushing him to Desert Regional Medical Center, where he died.

Officers discovered the man's gun was a replica and all its safety markings had been removed to make it look like a real weapon.

Crime news: Second suspect arrested in Coachella armed robbery

The victim was treated at a local hospital for unspecified injuries she suffered during the assault, police said. No officers or bystanders were injured.

Riverside County Sheriff's Deputy Mike Vasquez said the department had taken over the investigation, as is standard procedure with officer-involved shootings.

Sunday's police shooting followed another one involving a domestic violence suspect on Dec. 26 in Desert Hot Springs.

Menifee resident Robo Raikoglo died after Desert Hot Springs police shot him on Cielo Azul Way. They were investigating a report of domestic violence involving a woman who claimed her boyfriend had been drinking and tried to shoot her during an argument before driving off.

Officers were at a the victim's home when Raikoglo returned and he was shot after pointing a gun at them after they'd identified themselves, officials said December last year.

Three Desert Hot Springs officers were placed on administrative leave, which is routine for officials involved in shootings.