A Gardena police officer acted in self-defense when he shot a 25-year-old man in a parking lot last year, the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office said on Wednesday, June 12.

Officer Michael Robbins was cleared of wrongdoing in the death of Kenneth Ross Jr., who was shot twice as he attempted to elude Gardena police at Rowley Memorial Park on April 11, 2018. Officers were responding to reports that he fired several shots from a handgun at a nearby business.

The DA Office’s memo includes statements from officers who responded to the scene and several witnesses, with a couple of the witnesses saying they saw Ross firing a handgun at a business near Van Ness Avenue and El Segundo Boulevard. A third witnesses said she heard 20-plus shots, sounding as if they were from two different guns.

Witnesses pointed officers to the man, later identified as Ross, and said he was the shooter. As police followed Ross, they noticed he was clutching the left side of his shorts, according to the report.

The suspect then ran, eventually entering the Rowley parking lot between 132nd Street and 134th Place.

Ross ran behind parked cars, a restroom and an electrical box. One officer chased Ross while Robbins stood near the hood on the driver’s side of his SUV with a rifle.

In the report, Robbins said Ross looked in his direction and cocked his left arm toward the officer after emerging from behind the electrical box. Robbins then fired twice and Ross fell to the ground, he said in the report.

A loaded 9-millimeter gun was taken from his left pocket by paramedics as they were loading him into an ambulance, the report said.

An autopsy shows Ross sustained a gunshot wound to the chest that entered through his back. He was also struck in the right arm, which also entered the right side of his chest.

The report says that body-worn camera footage from the pursuing officer corroborated Robbins’ observations that Ross had begun to turn his body toward the officer.

Amphetamine was detected in the suspect’s system, but the report noted a prescription bottle for Adderall in Ross’ name was found in his backpack. Adderall contains amphetamine.

Family members have contended Ross was not a threat when officers shot him. They also marched outside Gardena police headquarters in December demanding answers for Ross’ death.

Witnesses who were sitting in their vehicles at the park – some eating lunch – said they never saw anything in Ross’ hands when he fell, the report said.

Some recognized Ross from the neighborhood. He talked to himself, cursed, made hand gestures and would dart into the street unexpectedly, they told investigators.

The firearm found in his pocket was loaded with two rounds.

“The law does not require Robbins to wait and set eyes on the gun before firing,” the report says. “Under the circumstances, it was reasonable for Robbins to conclude that when Ross cocked his left arm toward him, Ross was drawing his gun to shoot at him, placing Robbins in reasonable fear of serious bodily harm or death.”

Police also found three loaded magazines in a backpack Ross had been carrying while running from authorities.