Westminster Police say the investigation is very active.

KUSA — WESTMINSTER – A man who was on the run after allegedly walking into a family’s garage, trying to carjack a running vehicle with a little girl was inside and then shooting her father when he tried to intervene was shot and killed by police in Thornton Friday afternoon, the Colorado Bureau of Investigation confirms.

The suspect, identified as 31-year-old Bruce Arnold Allee, took off in the stolen vehicle, which Westminster Police say he later abandoned at West 70th Avenue and Broadway. Sources tell 9Wants To Know the suspect was shot and killed by law enforcement at 88th and Corona.

According to a statement released by the U.S. Marshals Service, members of the Colorado Violent Offender Task Force were attempting to arrest the suspect, who was wanted for multiple felony warrants. No law enforcement officers were injured during the incident.

The U.S. Marshals Service stated that they will conduct an internal review after the Adams County Critical Incident Team completes its investigation. No names of deputy marshals involved in the incident have been released.

Westminster Police spokesperson Cheri Spottke says the family called 911 about the violent incident at their home in the 13200 block of Wyandot Street at around 7:20 a.m. on Friday.

Spottke says a 9-year-old girl was inside a car parked in the family’s garage while her mother was nearby when Allee walked inside and tried to steal the vehicle. The mother called for help, according to police, and when her husband came outside, Allee fired multiple shots at him.

He was hit but is expected to survive, Spottke says. The 9-year-old girl was able to get out of the vehicle safely before Allee took off.

It’s unclear why Allee was in the neighborhood to begin with.

“It is scary,” Spottke said. “It is frightening. But again, this neighborhood wasn’t targeted for any reason that we know of. It just was a matter of a perfect storm. He’s in the neighborhood looking for a car to jack, she’s on our way getting things ready to start their day.”

After Allee abandoned the family’s stolen car, Spottke says he carjacked a box truck.

“I would describe him as armed and dangerous,” Spottke said before Allee was apprehended.

Sources confirmed to 9NEWS that Allee is the same man who ran from CSP in a stolen food truck on Tuesday.

A CSP spokesperson told 9NEWS at 11:30 a.m. that day, a trooper saw a black Ford super duty pick-up on US 287 near the Berthoud exit.

The truck’s front right tire was caught in a drainage culvert area. After running the plates, the truck appeared to be stolen, CSP said.

The agency spokesperson said dispatch contacted additional law enforcement while the trooper spoke with the driver and the passenger.

At 11:42 a.m., CSP said Allee brandished a gun and ran away. He refused to follow commands from the trooper, but he also didn’t point his weapon at anyone, according to CSP.

CSP says Allee then went to a neighboring construction site and stole a 15-passenger van that had been converted to a snack wagon.

CSP says they were not able to find him, but they did find meth and marijuana in the car he left behind, as well as multiple types of ammunition for different weapons.