An officer with the Phoenix Police Department shot and killed a man in a neighborhood near Central and Southern avenues Saturday afternoon, sending law-enforcement investigators to the second fatal police shooting of the day.

The man was the 26th person to be shot by law enforcement in Maricopa County in 2018, according to an Arizona Republic tally. Eighteen of the shootings have been fatal.

The first shooting of the day occurred early Saturday morning. No officers were injured in either shooting.

Sgt. Mark Tovar, a Phoenix police spokesman, said officers were called to the area on a report of a car that had crashed into a fence at about 2 p.m.

Police found the car and the driver in a field just north of Third Street and St. Charles Avenue.

Police said in a news release Sunday that the man may have been impaired at the time of the crash.

The statement also said police spotted a rifle in the car as they approached and ordered the man not to touch it. Police said he ignored the commands and reached for the rifle. An officer then fired at the man before seeking cover.

The man began firing the rifle at officers, prompting them to shoot back, police said. He then pulled out a handgun and continued shooting, according to officers.

The man "was stopped" after he was struck at least once in the second exchange of gunfire with police, Tovar said.

The man, whose name has not been released, died at the scene. Officials said Sunday they were still working to determine his identity.

RELATED: Phoenix police shoot, kill armed man after multi-hour pursuit across Valley

Early Saturday, Phoenix police shot and killed a man following a multi-hour pursuit across the Valley.

Tovar said officers responded to two separate reports of shots fired near 28th Avenue and Bethany Home Road at about 2 a.m.

Police chased the man to 13th Avenue and Thomas Road after he refused to stop. Officers fatally shot he man after he pointed a weapon at them, Tovar said.

Check azcentral.com for updates.

READ MORE:

Experts say weight might have been an issue in Scottsdale plane crash

Tolleson soldier dies in Army training accident