PAVILION TOWNSHIP, MI -- A 48-year-old man was shot and killed by police Wednesday after he allegedly refused to leave the driveway of a mobile home in the Pavilion Estates Mobile Home Park.

Kalamazoo County Undersheriff James Van Dyken said deputies were called to the mobile home park at 6830 East N Ave. at about noon on April 18 after a manager there said a man and woman were parked in a car there and refused to leave.

They were in front of a mobile home at the end of Kingsville and Blossom streets.

"At about noon, two people were parked in a vehicle at the intersection, in a driveway to one of the trailers," VanDyken said. "The person who owns the trailer is alleging that they were squatters there, that they wouldn't leave, and (he) contacted park management."

"Management called the sheriff's department to try to get them to leave the property because they weren't supposed to be here," he continued. "Our deputies arrived, encountered both of the individuals inside the car. The male existed the car."

He said the man was in possession of what was believed to be at least one firearm.

"I was told that he fired one shot into the air," VanDyken said. "The deputies took cover and resources were brought in, including the SWAT team and state police."

VanDyken said officers tried for about an hour to talk the man into putting down his weapon. He was shot by members of the Kalamazoo County Metro SWAT Team after he leveled his handgun at them, the command officer said.

The man was on foot in the area of mobile homes at the time. But they had all been evacuated before the shooting occurred and the mobile home at which his vehicle was parked was already unoccupied when the incident began, deputies said.

"It's been reported to me that the person was hostile and making threats that he had to be shot by uniformed officers," VanDyken said.

Deputies said the man was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead there.

Deputies would not release the name and age of the man but said he is from the Kalamazoo area. His female companion was wanted on an unrelated charge, he said. She was taken into custody and was being held Wednesday afternoon in the Kalamazoo County Jail.

Her name and other identifying information were not immediately released.

Because multiple police agencies were involved, state police investigators from outside the area will investigate the shooting, VanDyken said.