MILLVILLE – Millville and Winslow Township police acted within the law in fatally shooting an armed man who was fleeing from a homicide and shooting investigation, Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae announced on Tuesday.

The conclusion is part of a seven-page report on the April 14, 2017 incident. It summarizes separate investigations by the county and the New Jersey Attorney General’s Office. The case was not presented to a grand jury.

More:Authorities ID murder suspect shot and killed by Millville police

More:Cumberland County readies coronavirus testing site; pre-screening required

The deceased was Jose M. Pietri, a 55-year-old Penns Grove resident with a felony record.

Pietri was shot after raising a .22-caliber revolver toward an officer who had cornered him on a dead-end street in South Millville. A previously released dashcam video from a Millville police vehicle recorded the end of the police chase and the suspect’s shooting.

“Officer No. 3’s actions demonstrate that he was in fear for his life when he discharged his weapon and that discharging his weapon was necessary for the protection of himself,” the report states.

“The actions and statements of Officer No.s 1 and 2 likewise show a reasonable belief that their conduct in using deadly force was necessary to protect the life of Officer No. 3,” the report adds.

The report does not state whether Pietri fired his weapon at police, as originally reported. The revolver held two fired rounds, the report states.

The shooting ended a high-speed police chase that had started earlier that day in Winslow Township.

Winslow police were after Pietri in connection with the fatal shooting of a man and wounding of a woman in Sicklerville. The woman and Pietri were the parents of two children, neither present at the shooting.

Police had spotted Pietri near the crime scene, in a Kia Sorento that belonged to the homicide victim. He sped off when approached, police said.

Pietri had a teenage girl with him. She fled to police when his vehicle was stopped on Holly Berry Lane. The report does not explain her presence or identify her.

The report states all three officers fired at Pietri, who an autopsy found was struck four times.

Millville police Officer Joseph Dixon, identified as Officer No. 3 in the report, fired 14 rounds from a .40-caliber Glock 23. Two bullets were recovered from the body intact enough for forensic examination, and both were determined to have come from his pistol.

The Winslow officers each fired 11 rounds: Officer No. 1 was using a 5.56 mm M4 Commando rifle; and No. 2 was using a .40-caliber Sig Sauer P229.

At one point, while Winslow officers were chasing Pietri, the report states that he called 911 and spoke with a dispatcher from Gloucester County Communications.

“During the call, Mr. Pietri stated that he was being chased, there was a kid in the car, and that he had a gun,” the report states. “The call disconnected when the dispatcher asked why the police were chasing him. This information was broadcast and received by multiple WTPD (Winslow) officers.”

Millville police were alerted and Dixon intercepted Pietri near Main and 4th streets, coming from the opposite direction of his patrol vehicle.

“The SUV crossed over the center line into the oncoming lane towards Officer No. 3 who was forced to swerve to avoid a collision,” the report states. “Officer No. 3 then turned around to follow the SUV and became the lead vehicle in the pursuit.”

Pietri fled onto Holly Berry Lane, which is a dead end. The SUV then became stuck on a curb as he attempted to turn around.

Pietri stepped out after the girl got out of the vehicle and went to police, who ordered the man to put up his hands and drop his pistol. However, Pietri “began to raise the handgun toward” Dixon and officers opened fire.

Pietri was carrying 17 bullets in his pants. The revolver was sent to the New Jersey State Police Ballistics Laboratory.

“When received by the laboratory the revolver was inoperable due to damage it sustained but was easily restored,” the report states. “Two discharged shell casings were recovered from the revolver’s cylinder.”

The report states the case was not presented to a grand jury “because there were no material facts in dispute.” The incident also predates a state law that would have required a grand jury review.

Joe Smith is a Philly native transplanted to South Jersey more than 30 years ago. He is a former editor and current senior staff writer at The Daily Journal in Vineland. Have a news tip? Reach out at (856) 563-5252 or jsmith@thedailyjournal.com or follow me on Twitter, @jpsmith-dj. Help support local journalism with a subscription to The Daily Journal.