ORLANDO, Fla. – A man wanted in connection with the death of an 82-year-old woman died in a deputy-involved shooting Friday night, according to the Orange County Sheriff's Office.

The shooting happened around 8:30 p.m. near the intersection of West South Street and Lime Avenue in Orlando following a carjacking, deputies said.

Sheriff Jerry Demings said the man, identified later as 48-year-old James Bauduy, was being sought in connection with a carjacking Thursday morning that took place shortly before Elfriede Asendorf was found suffering from a gunshot wound in her Windermere home.

April 20, 2018

Investigators said they later learned that Bauduy was the suspect in both cases and that the carjacking victim was his ex-girlfriend and the daughter of Asendorf. Deputies said Bauduy violently pushed his ex-girlfriend out of the vehicle during the carjacking around 9 a.m. Thursday.

Asendorf was found suffering from a gunshot wound at her home on Ingeborg Court around 9:25 a.m. when deputies conducted a well-being check, authorities said. She was taken to Health Central Hospital, where she later died.

Bauduy was shot by two deputies Friday and fewer than a half-dozen rounds were fired, the sheriff said. Deputies said they thought he was armed at the time and that he made a movement that led them to believe he was trying to shoot, which is when the deputies opened fire.

Bauduy was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead, officials said.

"We do believe that a dangerous individual is off the streets of Orange County ... an individual that was wanted on homicide charges from yesterday," Demings said.

Officials said the deputies, identified as Sgt. Bruce Vail and Cpl. Randolph Hovland, were OK following the shooting. Vail has worked with the Sheriff's Office since 1994 and Hovland was hired in 1998, deputies said.

Both deputies have been reassigned to administrative duties for at least a week while an administrative investigation is conducted, the Sheriff's Office said.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, officials said.

Watch News 6 and stay with ClickOrlando.com for updates on this developing story.