A man wanted in Ouachita Parish shot and killed himself Tuesday night after being stopped by a Georgetown Police Department officer, according to a release.

The man was 43-year-old Joe David Williams of West Monroe, said Georgetown Chief Clay Nugent on Thursday.

According to a release from the department, Officer Scott Nugent stopped Williams around 11 p.m. while he was traveling north on U.S. Highway 165. Nugent discovered that the man was wanted on a warrant from an unidentified agency in Ouachita Parish.

Chief Nugent said when a dispatcher radioed the officer, he walked back to his patrol unit so the dispatcher could tell him Williams was wanted on a warrant.

It was then that Williams got back into his 2008 Chevrolet pickup truck and fled. The chief said there was no attempt to arrest Williams, nor did the officer tell Williams he was wanted on a warrant.

The chase headed into LaSalle Parish on U.S. 165. Williams fired two shots from his truck during the eight-mile chase, said Chief Nugent.

The Olla Police Department set up a road block near Hardtner Medical Center, reads a release. Chief Nugent said Williams shot himself after he came upon the roadblock.

Williams died at the scene. None of the officers fired their weapons. No one else was injured.

Chief Nugent did not have information on what charge or charges Williams faced with the warrant.

But according to records from the 4th Judicial District Court, a bench warrant had been issued for Williams on March 13 because he failed to appear the day before for arraignment on charges of third-offense DWI, resisting an officer by flight and failure to yield to an emergency vehicle.

Those charges stemmed from a Nov. 10, 2017, arrest in which the West Monroe Police Department was called to home because Williams' estranged wife said he was continually driving by her residence and causing her to fear for her safety, according to the arrest report.

Williams was wanted on unrelated warrants for aggravated damage to property and simple criminal damage to property at the time of his Nov. 10 arrest. He was arrested after a short chase, telling officer he had had "a lot" to drink when he was asked, it reads.

Those warrants had been issued on Oct. 31, 2017, and also involved his estranged wife. According to the warrant, his wife texted him that she was leaving him. Williams went to her boyfriend's home, ramming into her vehicle and pushing it about 50 feet until it crashed into the home and a portable building.

The LaSalle Parish Sheriff's Office handled the shooting investigation.

Monroe News Star reporter Ashley Mott contributed to this report.