OTTAWA COUNTY, MI - With his left arm around her neck, and right hand pushing a 9mm Taurus gun against her head, he walked her out as police surrounded their home.

Mary Hartman knew she would die. She had just witnessed her estranged husband shoot her friend in the head. He told her he wouldn't be taken alive.

Her husband ignored repeated police commands to drop his weapon. He had a tight grip around her neck, and kept her in the line of fire. She felt the gun barrel against her head.

Everyone else heard the blast of gunfire.

She doesn't remember hearing anything. She just felt her husband suddenly drop. A police sniper, she said, fired a rifle shot that hit Matthew Hartman just below his right eye, killing him.

Once, he was the love of her life, her high-school sweetheart and father of their son, Brayden, nearly 6. But struggles with mental health turned the fun-loving "great guy" into a jealous, abusive husband, and, at least last weekend, a monster, his wife said.

He shot and killed Jordan Carey, 29, early Sunday, April 22, at the victim's home on Merrill Street in Muskegon.

"We believe that the suspect from West Olive came to the door and confronted (Carey) about an alleged relationship with his spouse," Muskegon Police Chief Jeffrey Lewis said.

Hartman then shot Carey's girlfriend, Marian Cantu, 25, but she survived.

Mary Hartman said she and Carey were only friends.

She and her husband and son lived at West Olive Estates, a mobile home community just off U.S. 31, half way between Grand Haven and Holland. Outside of their home is a figurine of two children in Dutch garb kissing. The front window is covered by plastic. A bucket is loaded with broken glass.

The day before the killing, Mary Hartman said her family gathered at the clubhouse pool to go swimming.

Her husband was unusually quiet. Her family thought he appeared "off," and acted "odd."

Their son left with his grandmother for a sleepover.

At home, Mary Hartman said, her husband became physical. She said she wasn't going to take it. She said she was going to the movies with friends. She was too upset, though, and decided to drive to Carey's house.

She thought they could talk, and she could cool off, but he was at work. She sat outside in her car, talked to a neighbor, but left before Carey got home. She said she stayed out the rest of the night.

She got home at 6:15 a.m.

The door flew open when she pulled into the driveway. She went inside. He asked about her night.

"He was super calm. Super calm," she recalled.

He said he wanted to go for a ride, something he liked to do. Often, they would stop at a park. When he headed toward U.S. 31, rather than the usual route on 120th Avenue, she asked where they were going.

Muskegon, he said.

"I asked him, 'For what?' He said, 'Well, I got some business to handle.'"

After a long silence, she said: "Please tell me you don't have a gun on you."

He lifted the armrest. He had his pinky on the trigger. The gun was pointed at her. She froze.

She pretended she was looking at Facebook when she quietly texted her mother and asked for "any way to get help for me." She wrote that they were headed north on U.S. 31, and Matt had a gun. She asked her mother to kiss her son and tell him she loved him.

She copied and pasted the message to several friends. She wrote Carey, telling him not to answer his door, but her husband took her phone before she could send the message, she said.

The husband said they were going to Carey's house. She said she begged him to kill her, not Carey. She thought about jumping out of the car on the highway.

She said she was screaming and crying when they got to Carey's house. Matthew Hartman took the keys and told her not to move. He tried to kick open the front door. When Carey finally answered, he apparently saw the gun and charged Hartman.

Hartman shot him in the head. He took another shot at the woman in the home. He got back into the car.

"I asked him, Did he realize what he just did? 'Do you understand? Really, you are going to prison. You can't play God.' He told me, 'No, I'm not going to prison.'"

She told him to shoot her.

"He said it was coming, don't worry about it."

When they got home, he put his clothes in the washer and took a shower. She told him to let the dog out. She texted 911.

A little later, when he let the dog back in, he saw police surrounding his home.

She asked what he was thinking. Where was the husband she once knew? She told him he scared her.

Then, he looked at her, with a chilling look on his face.

"'That felt really good,'" he told her.

She told herself: "I'm done. I'm dead. I'm done."

He told her to call her mother. He wanted to talk to his son one last time, to tell him he loved him.

The boy's grandmother, who was near the Hartmans' house by then, said a tactical team was outside of their home.

Just as Mary Hartman was telling her son she loved him, Matthew Hartman hung up the phone.

He had his arm around her neck and a gun against her head when they walked outside. He used her as a shield. Only part of his head was exposed to police. Mary Hartman said she happened to eye a sniper, who turned out to be a Holland police officer, across the street.

Mary Hartman broke down emotionally after the gunman went down. Matthew Hartman was her husband, the father of her son, yet she was also divorcing him and had accused him of assault. She was overwhelmed by emotions.

Ottawa County sheriff's deputies told her that police had no choice.

Mary Hartman said her husband wanted to kill her, but wanted to do it so others - including her mother, who helped pay for the divorce - could see. That's why she believes he didn't shoot her while they were inside, she said.

He had tried to isolate her from her family, threatened her, complained about the way she dressed and became possessive, tell-tale signs of an abusive relationship. She said Children's Protective Services worked with the family because of his behavior toward their son.

The little boy knows what happened. His mother isn't going to lie or sugarcoat it. He'll find out eventually. She'd rather he hear it from her than kids at school. He went back Thursday, his own choice. His mother was glad. She wants him to get back to his routine.

His dad used to take him fishing, riding bikes, playing ball and Pokemon Go. Brayden was the love of his father's life.

"That boy is so brave. I mean, I'm sad, I'm angry, I'm a hundred different emotions," his mother said.

She said she has been the subject of threats after the killing in Muskegon. She said people don't know that she tried to stop her husband, and she would have rather died herself.

She said Carey was a "close friend, he was my buddy. He made me appreciate the simple things in life."

She said she did not lead her husband to Carey's home but that's how some see it. People want someone to blame, and she's the only one left.

"They don't care I was brought there at gunpoint."

She said her husband bought the gun in September, shortly after she filed for divorce. She said police took the firearm during three investigations but it was returned to him.

Her attorney, Robert German, said police took the husband's gun in February after he allegedly threatened her with it.

He said police "mistreated" her, which led her to withdraw her statement. She was charged with a felony for filing a false police report but Ottawa County prosecutors this week dismissed the case.

"The prosecutor realized that she was telling (the) truth," he said.

"The last thing an unstable human being should be allowed to buy is a gun," Mary Hartman said. "Everything was legal about it until he killed somebody with it."

She said her husband's mental health had worsened in recent months. She said he wouldn't get help to save their marriage. She said she had to "unfriend" him on Facebook because of things he was posting.

After his death, she saw his Facebook. There were "bone-chilling" posts, including a statement that "If I die, it'll be better for everybody."

She said no one reacted to the posts, or told her.

She has conflicted feelings about her husband. He once was a good man but "he wasn't the same person I knew."

He destroyed lives.

"I'm very angry at him. 'You said you loved me. You told me you loved me.' But he went and created a frickin' war, and left me here to deal with it. That's not love. You hurt me ... because I filed for divorce.'"

She fears retaliation but refuses to hide.

"All I can pray for is they don't do it around my kid. I'm emotionally scarred for the rest of my life, anyway. If I could have done something to stop it, I would've taken every bullet to prevent what happened."