OROVILLE — Two Butte County sheriff’s deputies will not face criminal charges in the fatal 2018 shooting of a woman who the authorities said rapidly backed her car toward an officer on a rural property in Palermo.

Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey said Monday that deputies Charles Lair and Mary Barker acted in reasonable self-defense or in defense of another person when they opened fire on the car of 56-year-old Myra Micalizio of Palermo, killing her.

Ramsey made the announcement during a news conference presenting the findings of the Butte County Officer Involved Shooting/Critical Incident Protocol Team, which the district attorney oversees.

While Ramsey determined the deputies were not criminally liable in Micalizio’s April 2018 death, Micalizio’s family has filed a wrongful death lawsuit alleging excessive and unreasonable force.

The lawsuit, filed in July 2018 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of California, claims Micalizio suffered from mental illness and names as defendants Lair, Barker, Butte County, the Butte County Sheriff’s Office and Sheriff Kory Honea.

Lawyers for the county have denied the allegations, and the suit remains active.

Lair and Barker shot at Micalizio during an incident that happened about 6:50 p.m. April 26, 2018, on a property in the 2100 block of Stanley Drive off Lincoln Boulevard south of Oroville.

The deputies responded to the Stanley Dive property after residents there reported a woman — who was unknown to the residents and later identified as Micalizio — was acting strangely and going through furniture and household items piled outside a trailer, according to Ramsey’s investigation report.

Micalizio reportedly asked a resident if she was having a yard sale, to which the resident said she was not, according to the report. Micalizio during the incident reportedly said she had a “trillion dollar bill,” formed her hand into a “finger gun” and threatened to shoot the residents.

Lair and Barker arrived on the scene in their separate patrol SUVs and immediately spotted Micalizio, who they said walked around her black Mercury Sable toward the driver’s side, according to the report.

Lair pulled his Glock pistol and commanded Micalizio to show her hands as he walked toward her, according to the report. Micalizio reportedly got in the driver’s seat, turned on the car, put it in reverse and backed toward Lair, coming within about six to seven feet of his position.

Lair fired nine shots as the car came toward him and while he moved away from it, initially aiming through the car’s rear window and then through the car’s left rear side window, according to the report. He hit Micalizio five times, and she died on the scene.

Barker, who reportedly did not feel threatened by the car’s movements but fired because she feared the car would run her partner over, fired six shots from her Glock pistol, according to the report. None of Barker’s shots hit Micalizio. Two of her rounds were recovered inside two occupied trailers on the Stanley Drive property.

About 15 to 20 seconds elapsed from when the deputies arrived on the scene to when the shooting happened.

Both deputies were wearing body cameras but neither Lair nor Barker activated them until after the shooting happened “because the sudden actions of the woman consumed their attention so quickly they did not have time to activate the cameras as they dealt with the evolving immediate threats,” according to the report.

An autopsy conducted by the Sacramento County Coroner’s Office revealed Micalizio died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the report. She was hit five times in her back near her spinal cord.

Investigators, in discussions with family members, found Micalizio suffered from mental health problems that “caused her to be ‘odd’ and occasionally talk with persons or objects not there,” according to the report.

A neighbor of Micalizio, who lived on Lincoln Boulevard not far from the Stanley Drive property where she was shot, noted a change in Micalizio’s behavior in the days before the shooting, according to the report. The neighbor reported hearing Micalizio yelling in front of her house with no one else around and seeing Micalizio making “weird” waving gestures toward passing vehicles.

“This is a tragedy for both the family of Ms. Micalizio and … to the deputies Lair and Barker, who were forced into taking action that neither one of them desired to do on that particular night,” Ramsey said. “However, there is no criminal liability that can be found under the facts in the law in this situation. And the case is now closed, without any finding of criminal liability.”

Ramsey, in explaining his determination, addressed the anticipated argument that Lair could have moved out of the way of the Micalizio’s car instead of shooting at it. The district attorney said under California’s law of self-defense, jurors are instructed that people exercising self-defense are not required to retreat, even if safety could have been achieved by retreating.

Ramsey also quoted a federal appeals court opinion that found requiring “officers to find and choose the least intrusive alternative would require them to exercise superhuman judgment” and “entangle the courts in endless second-guessing of police decisions made under stress and subject to the exigencies of the moment.”

Family members of Micalizio attended Ramsey’s news conference Monday and questioned the deputies’ decisions and the findings of investigators. One family member noted that many shots on Micalizio’s car entered through the left side of the car.

“They already cleared the … danger, and shooting at the side of the car,” a brother of Micalizio’s said. “That’s what I don’t understand. I do not understand that.”

In an interview with this newspaper last year, Micalizio’s daughter, Hali McKelvie, questioned why the deputies did not turn their body cameras on, especially during a time when police use of force has come under increased scrutiny across the country over the last several years.

“If you’re a trained police officer, and you know where we are as a society with all of the police brutality and the social and political climate against police brutality, and you’re not turning on a body cam, that just to me is absurd,” McKelvie said. “That does not make sense. That’s negligent.”

McKelvie also questioned the way the incident was communicated to the deputies. She noted that her mother reportedly made strange comments toward the residents at the Stanley Drive property, including asking for change for a trillion dollar bill and making comments about asking the FBI to respond to the scene.

If those “erratic” comments were relayed, along with the more threatening ones, perhaps the deputies could have assessed the situation and responded differently, she said, adding that Micalizio suffered from depression and schizoid personality disorder.

“My mother talked to things that were not there and carried on relationships with her ‘air friends,'” McKelvie said. “That does not mean in spite of that she deserved to be murdered. It doesn’t mean she deserved to be treated any less. She was just special in her own way, and it was not a negative, and it was not a dangerous way.”

The daughter also said the deputies could have moved out of the way of the car instead of firing on it.

“This is where my head spins, and I’m going to bring it back to the 15 to 20 seconds,” she said. “My mother was reversing her car. No one is disputing that, OK. The problem is, yes, they could have gotten out of the way … (Lair) was within six feet of that vehicle. What I found out is that my mother was shot and probably murdered instantly.”

Micalizio was a self-sufficient person who had worked as a blackjack dealer before working in in-home supportive services for the sick and elderly, McKelvie said. She moved to the Oroville area years ago following a stint in Reno.

Micalizio was a good bowler who enjoyed drawing, McKelvie said. She loved animals and was an adept storyteller. In her later years, she was focused on her family and her faith. She was studying toward being baptized as a Jehova’s Witness.

Micalizio also was a big fan of George Michael, the daughter said. She would often sing his song, “Faith,” to her children.

“She was an honest person,” McKelvie said. “She had faith, and she lived a very simple life. People need to know that.”

McKelvie said she is pursuing justice for her mother. And justice would mean an admission of wrongdoing from the Sheriff’s Office, an apology to Micalizio’s family and enacting and following through with policies that could further address people suffering from mental health episodes.

“Things need to change within Butte County,” she said. “Policies and procedures need to be reviewed and updated. They need to be trauma informed. They need to be informed in how to deal with the mentally ill and the vulnerable in their community. They need to work on engagement with other service providers and allow them to be trained. They need to not resort to fatalities.”

Honea, the sheriff, said at the news conference Monday that he would not address facts of the case because of pending litigation. But he did address two policies of the Sheriff’s Office, including guidelines regarding the activation of body cameras and shooting at moving vehicles.

According to Sheriff’s Office policy, deputies “should make all reasonable efforts to record investigations, interactions and law enforcement activities” of certain events, including confrontational interactions with citizens. The policy goes on to state that deputies should not jeopardize their safety or the safety of others in order to activate a body camera.

The Sheriff’s Office also has a policy stating that “shooting at or from vehicles is generally prohibited except, when immediately necessary to protect persons from death or serious injury and lethal force would be justified.”

Honea said given the facts the district attorney presented, deputies Lair and Barker appeared to act within the policies regarding body camera activation and shooting at moving vehicles.

The body camera policy, he said, gives deputies discretion in “rapidly developing” situations, Honea said. He said deputies are strongly encouraged to turn their cameras on, and more deputies are turning on their cameras more often as they become more familiar with the devices.

The sheriff also noted that the policy regarding shooting at vehicles preserves a deputy’s lawful right to protect himself or herself or others from a threat. In Micalizio’s case, he said, it appeared the deputies were able to stop a threat by shooting at Micalizio’s car.

“Until you’ve been in a situation where you honestly believe that you’re about to die, and you have to make those split-second decisions,” Honea said, “it becomes very very difficult to take into account all of the things that is easy for us to sit here and take into account in retrospect.”