An Oklahoma City man is dead Thursday after being shot by Texas law enforcement as he was stabbing a woman following a high-speed chase through North Texas.

Wichita County Sheriff David Duke said the suspect got out of the vehicle as the pursuit ended and began stabbing his ex-girlfriend, who he had reportedly kidnapped. She is listed in serious but stable condition at a Norman hospital.

The Oklahoman reported that police in Norman, Oklahoma, responded to a domestic disturbance, where the alleged kidnapping happened around 7:25 a.m.

Update:Texas DPS identifies Oklahoma suspect, stabbing victim in high-speed police chase

Around 8:30 a.m., Burkburnett police were notified that the pair were possibly travelling to Texas.

A short time later, an officer spotted the suspect vehicle, a red Dodge Charger, driving through the city, Wichita County Sheriff David Duke said.

"They initiated the pursuit, and our deputies got involved with it north of Wichita Falls," Duke said.

More:Emergency lights in your rear-view mirror? Wichita Falls PD give tips for those near chase

Based on early reports, multiple law enforcement agencies tried to deploy a spike strip to stop the Charger as it fled through Wichita Falls before heading north down U.S. Highway 287 toward Vernon.

An Electra Police Department officer and DPS trooper successfully spiked the vehicle, and it came to a stop about five miles east of Vernon on U.S. 287.

“The vehicle lost control and ended up in the barrow ditch," Duke said. "One of our deputy’s vehicles was up there – actually, he was cutting in there to get the vehicle before they (the suspect and victim) got out of the car.”

As the Wichita County deputy approached with his firearm drawn, the female kidnapping victim got out of the Charger and ran toward approaching state troopers who were pulling up to the scene.

While the deputy was trying to get out of his vehicle, Duke said a truck struck the WCSO vehicle that had been involved in the pursuit. He said the vehicle only received "cosmetic damage."

Listen:Norman PD releases 911 call that led to fatal high-speed chase in North Texas

“The suspect got out and ran," Duke said. "Our deputy witnessed the suspect tackle the female. He had a large knife and began stabbing her. At that point, the DPS engaged the suspect.”

Around 9:40 a.m., the suspect was shot by state troopers in response to the stabbing of the female victim, a DPS news release stated. The suspect died at the scene.

“No county deputies were involved in the shooting,” Duke said.

Officer-involved shooting:Foard County deputy who shot, killed Heath Hodges no billed by grand jury

Sgt. Dan Buesing, a DPS spokesperson, confirmed the agency's involvement in the high-speed chase and officer-involved shooting.

"It did end up in a fatality," Buesing said. "At this point, the Texas Rangers are coming in to start our investigation. Once they get their investigation wrapped up, we’ll be able to release more information.”

The female victim was taken to Wilbarger General Hospital in Vernon for the treatment of multiple stab wounds, and later airlifted to OU Medical Center in Norman, Oklahoma, with what was described as "serious injuries," the news release stated.

She was in serious but stable condition as of 8:20 p.m. Thursday, according to the release.

Embezzlement:North Texas store manager, 19, accused of embezzling $40k from Mattress Firm over 3 weeks

A Texas Ranger from Wichita Falls was already on scene around 10:45 a.m. A second Ranger from Childress was expected to assist in the investigation.

Buesing said any additional information about the pursuit or shooting would be released following the investigation.

The names of the suspect and victim are being withheld until notification has been given to family members, the release stated.

“All officers are okay. First responders are good," Buesing said. "We’re just going to be waiting for more information from the rangers once they get their investigation underway.”