During a 6-hour standoff with police on Sunday, a Dover Township man released a woman unharmed, but later killed himself as police shot tear gas inside the garage where he had barricaded himself, according to police.

York County Coroner Pam Gay identified the man as 46-year-old Eric Landis. An autopsy is scheduled for Tuesday, and Northern York County Regional Police continue to investigate.

About 8:20 a.m., police responded to Landis' home in the 5000 block of North Salem Church Road "for a reported suicidal male subject. The male had barricaded himself and a female in the garage of the home," according to a Northern Regional news release.

READ:Police, York County Quick Response Team resolve standoff in Newberry Township

"Upon police arrival, the male agreed to allow the female to exit the garage. She was unharmed," the release states. "The male was to be armed with several types of firearms and knives and had already inflicted several knife wounds to himself. The female was unharmed."

Police did not identify the woman.

Northern Regional then called in the York County Quick Response Team. The team of officers from many of the county's police departments has negotiation and tactical units.

After several hours of attempting to negotiate with the male, tear gas was shot into the garage and the doors to the garage were forcibly breached by the QRT, according to the release. Once inside, QRT members found Landis dead from self-inflicted wounds.

READ:Teen fired gun toward grandfather's head before standoff, police say

Other than firing tear gas, no shots were fired by police. No officers were injured.

Mourned at workplace

According to Landis' Facebook page, he worked as a special education master coach at Helen Thackston Charter School in York.

On Monday, Melissa Achuff, the school's principal, released a statement about Landis. She added, "we worked together for the last three years."

Here is the school's statement, in its entirety:

"The entire Helen Thackston Charter School community is saddened by the death of one of our staff members. His family is in our thoughts and prayers. We ask you to please respect their privacy and ours at this most difficult time. We have counselors available for our students and employees and have contacted outside agencies for additional assistance which has been provided. Any additional inquires regarding this should be directed to our Solicitor's office."

Investigation

Police continue to investigate. Anyone with information is asked to contact the Northern York County Regional Police Department at 717-467-TELL(8355) or at tips@nycrpd.org