OROSI — A 26-year-old mentally ill Orosi man is dead.

Now, Tulare County deputies and Visalia detectives are trying to figure out what led to the fatal officer-involved shooting Thursday afternoon.

Sheriff's officials haven't said much, refusing to give details at the scene. They later released on social media the identity of the man, Anthony Trujillo, who they claim was armed with a machete when he approached deputies.

The incident started around 3:50 p.m. in the 12400 block of Dennison Drive in Orosi, about 12 miles north of Visalia.

Family members called 911 to report Trujillo, described as schizophrenic, was "acting erratic."

"[The mother] describes him as being 'off' his medication," Boudreaux said. "We don't know what he was taking."

When deputies arrived at the home, they were directed to Trujillo’s bedroom. As deputies walked toward the room they demanded the suspect come out.

"Do you mind if we come in and talk to you?" the deputies said as he knocked on Trujillo's door.

Trujillo responded, "no."

Deputies said they saw and heard the door handle rattle, indicating Trujillo was going to come out and speak with deputies.

Seconds later, Trujillo opened the door with a machete blade in his hands and raised it above his head. Trujillo struck the deputy in the head with the machete.

The suspect struck one of the deputies with the machete on the deputy's head and chest.

It was then, the deputy yelled, "he has a weapon," Boudreaux said.

Witnesses said the deputy, part of a field-training team, was also been struck by a bullet after being caught in the crossfire.

Deputies then fired their guns at the suspect to "protect their lives and stop the assault," sheriff's officials said.



Trujillo was shot in the chest and died at the scene. Deputies shot roughly six rounds, none missed Trujillo.

The deputy involved was injured but is expected to recover, according to the sheriff's department.

"We had a deputy who received non-life threatening injuries and is now at the hospital," Cpl. Ixchel Franks said from the scene.

Boudreaux visited the deputy in the hospital.

"Our hearts truly go out to everyone in this situation," he said. "Everyone is suffering."

Neighbors and family said Trujillo was prone to mental episodes, which deputies knew, they said. The man had a "long" history with law enforcement going back to 2003.

As law enforcement placed crime scene tape around the block, neighbors gathered and began talking.

Each had their own version of what may have occurred.

Andrea Cuevas lives in the area where gunfire erupted Thursday afternoon. She was inside as chaos ensued on her street.

“I didn’t hear any gunshots,” Cuevas said. “I got a text that something happened on my street.”

She came out and saw a crowd gathering at the corner of Badger Avenue and Road 124.

The neighborhood is known for gang violence and drugs, residents said. They were surprised to learn drugs and gangs weren't involved in the incident that left a neighbor dead.

This is the second time Cuevas has watched behind crime scene tape as detectives collected evidence, she said.

“There’s always gang-related shootings,” one neighbor said to another. “That’s all you hear about in this town.”

Law enforcement officers were on the scene collecting evidence and interviewing witnesses for several hours Thursday. California Highway Patrol officers were also on scene and helped control the perimeter. It's not known how or if they're involved in the incident.

Tulare County Sheriff's Department will conduct an internal affairs investigation, while Visalia Police Department will determine if anything criminal occurred when officers pulled their triggers.

Residents said the neighborhood has been plagued by crime, but the most notable attention to this block came 10 years ago. Nancy Ortiz was arrested by deputies after leaving three infants outside homes in the area.

The third child died.

Sheriff's officials testified that the third baby — later named Angelita De Orosi ("Little Angel of Orosi") by the Tulare County Coroner — froze to death in December 2006.

The Little Angel of Orosi may have spent more than a day in the bed of a pickup in the 12000 block of Sequoia before being found, deputies said.

In February 2005 and January 2006, two other newborns, a boy and a girl were found abandoned in front of homes less than a block from each other. DNA proved later that all three babies shared a mother and two shared a father.

During the trial, Ortiz's defense attorney said her client just "wanted a better life" for the babies and assumed the third would be found and cared for.

Ortiz was convicted of second-degree murder in 2009 and sentenced to 22 years in prison.

More:Earlimart officer-involved shooting

More:Suspected car thief shot by police in Tulare County

More:UPDATE: Tulare Police identify suspect in officer-involved shooting