Man shot, killed after pursuit ends in crash in Seminole County, officials say

A man was shot and killed Sunday afternoon after Sheriff's Office officials said he pulled a gun on officers after a pursuit ended in a crash in Seminole County.Shortly after 1:40 p.m., the Prague Police Department received a call about a man assaulting a woman while driving, according to Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation officials. Prague police officers found the driver and engaged in a pursuit with him, officials said. More law enforcement agencies joined the chase as it continued south on Highway 377, where an Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper performed a tactical maneuver to disable the man's vehicle, officials said. The vehicle crashed about a mile south of Seminole, officials said.At the end of the chase, the man raised a rifle toward officers, who discharged their weapons and hit him, according to officials. The man was pronounced dead at the scene.No officers were injured in the pursuit and shooting.A Facebook Live video from the scene of the crash shows several officers from various law enforcement agencies off the side of the road searching and issuing instructions to the man. At one point in the video, several rounds of gunfire can be heard.The full Facebook Live video can be seen here (Warning: The video contains inappropriate language).OSBI agents and Highway Patrol troopers are investigating the deadly officer-involved shooting. A report will be given to the Seminole County District Attorney's Office, which will determine if the shooting was justified.The man has been identified as Franklin Robert Vaughn, 39. The names of the officers involved in the shooting have not been released.

A man was shot and killed Sunday afternoon after Sheriff's Office officials said he pulled a gun on officers after a pursuit ended in a crash in Seminole County.

Shortly after 1:40 p.m., the Prague Police Department received a call about a man assaulting a woman while driving, according to Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation officials. Prague police officers found the driver and engaged in a pursuit with him, officials said.

Advertisement

More law enforcement agencies joined the chase as it continued south on Highway 377, where an Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper performed a tactical maneuver to disable the man's vehicle, officials said. The vehicle crashed about a mile south of Seminole, officials said.

At the end of the chase, the man raised a rifle toward officers, who discharged their weapons and hit him, according to officials. The man was pronounced dead at the scene.

No officers were injured in the pursuit and shooting.

A Facebook Live video from the scene of the crash shows several officers from various law enforcement agencies off the side of the road searching and issuing instructions to the man. At one point in the video, several rounds of gunfire can be heard.

The full Facebook Live video can be seen here (Warning: The video contains inappropriate language).

OSBI agents and Highway Patrol troopers are investigating the deadly officer-involved shooting. A report will be given to the Seminole County District Attorney's Office, which will determine if the shooting was justified.

The man has been identified as Franklin Robert Vaughn, 39. The names of the officers involved in the shooting have not been released.