The shooting is the eleventh in 11 days in the metro Atlanta area.

FLOYD COUNTY, Ga. -- The Georgia Bureau of Investigation has been called in after an officer-involved shooting in northwest Georgia.

The shooting happened Monday afternoon in Floyd County on the East Bypass at Georgia Highway 411. GBI spokesperson Nelly Miles confirmed a woman who was also a suspect is dead.

According to the GBI, the incident all began after Cave Spring Police tried to pull over Kimberley R. McCann, 55, for driving too fast through a school zone. Officials said the Cedartown woman did not stop, and a chase ensued.

After some time, police said McCann crashed, hitting several vehicles. That's when officials said McCann opened fire at officers. Four officers returned fire, and at least one of those shots hit the woman, killing her.

11Alive obtained exclusive video where you can hear gunshots at the scene of the shooting.

Officials identified the officers as Leonard Whaley and Chris Shelley of the Floyd County Police Department, Trooper Jamie Mitchell with the Georgia State Patrol and Deputy Devin Womack with the Floyd County Sheriff's Office.

All three agencies requested the GBI's assistance. The shooting is the eleventh officer-involved incident in 11 days in the metro Atlanta area.

11Alive's Faith Abubey spoke to a witness of the deadly shooting, do described the moments leading up to the gunfire.

"All of a sudden, you see this red Tacoma just come flying through the median, not slowing down, not hitting her breaks, with nothing but her rims on the front of her vehicle, and just flying and weaving in and out of traffic," she described. "She didn't even attempt to slow down because she didn't care what she hit."

Witness to this afternoon’s deadly officer-involved shooting describes moments leading up to the gunshots. She was in the car with her husband and two kids. More tonight on #TheLateFeed @11AliveNews pic.twitter.com/qHfcczX2lu — Faith Abubéy (@ReporterFaith) May 8, 2018