APPLETON - Officers shot and killed a man who confronted them with a shotgun outside an eastside residence Monday evening, police said.

Sgt. Dave Lund declined to tell a USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin reporter how many officers were involved in the shooting. He said no officers were injured in the incident.

Lund said at an 8:45 p.m. press conference that the Green Bay Police Department has been asked to investigate the shooting, in accordance with the Appleton Police Department's policy. The officers involved were immediately taken from the scene, he said.

Police responded to a single-family house in the 100 block of South Matthias Street shortly after 6 p.m. for a report of a disturbance involving a weapon. Upon arrival, officers were met outside the front of the home by a man with a shotgun, Lund said.

"That individual confronted officers with the shotgun and was subsequently fired upon by multiple officers," he said.

RELATED: Police killed more people in Wisconsin than in past years | Analysis

RELATED: Appleton-Green Bay police investigation policy scrutinized

A heavy police presence was evident on Matthias north of College Avenue and south of East Peter Street. The scene was 200 to 300 feet south and west of the Newberry Trail.

Lund said the shooting was "an isolated incident" and that there no longer was a threat to the safety or well-being of residents in the neighborhood.

Ruth Cooperman, a resident who lives in the area, sat inside her car at the corner of Matthias and Peter and watched as police processed the scene of the shooting.

The block was cordoned off with squad cars, police tape and street barricades.

Cooperman said she and her daughter were sitting at home when she heard what sounded like firecrackers.

“I said, ‘Wow. That just sounded crazy,’ and my daughter turned on the police scanner, and it said stay in your homes and this and that,” she said. “They said it was a shooting, and then I see it right here before my eyes.”

Cooperman said she recently moved to the neighborhood from Florida.

“It’s very sad,” she said. “My heart is heavy. I just ask people to pray.”

Jordan La Crosse, who lives nearby on Matthias Court, said he came home from work to find the police presence. He was concerned.

“This is a safe neighborhood,” La Crosse said. “That’s why I moved here.”

Anyone with information about the shooting is asked to contact the Appleton Police Department at 920-832-5500. Those wishing to remain anonymous may use the report feature on the department's smartphone application.

This was the second shooting involving an Appleton police officer within a year. On May 21 last year, Lt. Jay Steinke opened fire inside a College Avenue bar after responding to a report of a gunshot. The man accused of firing that shot was hit in the arm and a bystander was fatally shot. No charges were filed against Steinke.

This was the fourth fatal shooting by Wisconsin police officers this year, according to data compiled by The Washington Post. At this time last year, the total stood at eight.

By the time 2017 came to a close, police in Wisconsin had killed more people than in each of the past two years and more than twice as many as in 2015. A fatal shooting in the town of Peshtigo on Dec. 7 was the 24th in the state last year and the 52nd since January 2015, according to figures compiled by the Washington Post, the Wisconsin Professional Police Association and USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin.