Update:

Virginia State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said agents found a .357 handgun in the possession of Phillip Cameron Gibson II, who was shot and killed by Washington County deputies on Tuesday night.

Agents determined the weapon had been stolen the previous day at a home in Washington County, Geller said.

Also in the vehicle, the agents also recovered numerous items reported stolen from separate residential burglaries that had occurred in Washington County, Geller said.

State Police also determined that the firearm pointed at the deputies was a BB gun replica of a pistol.

Geller noted that Gibson’s remains have been sent to the Office of the Medical Examiner in Roanoke for examination and autopsy.

The State Police investigation’s results will be turned over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney for final review, she added.

A man was shot and killed by Sheriff’s Deputies on Tuesday May 8, 2018, in Glade Springs VA, after a pursuit that ended at the intersection of Rt. 11 and Rt. 91. The Sheriff's Office has identified the suspect as Phillip Gibson II, 37, of Castlewood, Virginia.

According to Washington County Sheriff Fred Newman, at approximately 7:30 P.M. a patrol sergeant with the sheriff’s office observed a vehicle on west Main Street in Abingdon, Virginia that was a suspect vehicle in a break-in that had occurred the day before from a residence in the lower end of Washington County. In that break-in, a .357 magnum handgun and prescription narcotics were taken from the residence. After the sergeant stopped the vehicle and began speaking with the operator the individual fled that location.

A pursuit began which traveled up Main St. through various back streets and onto Cumming St. where the vehicle headed North on Interstate 81 at exit 17. The vehicle exited the Interstate while being pursued by law enforcement. The vehicle continued on traveling south on Enterprise Road, then East on Rt. 11; the vehicle then made a left on Maple St. near exit 29 in Glade Spring, traveling on various roads in and around Glade Spring. Spike strips were utilized on a number of occasions. Finally, a Glade Spring Police officer was successful in his attempt. The vehicle slowed to approximately 35 MPH heading south on Maple St. when a Virginia State Police Trooper utilized a PIT maneuver. The vehicle came to rest against a utility pole at the intersection of Rt. 91 and Rt. 11.

According to witnesses the operator exited his vehicle and attempted to gain entry into at least two other vehicles. A weapon was observed in the suspects hand before fleeing across Rt. 11 on foot with Sheriff Deputies engaging in a foot pursuit. The suspect ran up an embankment toward a convent store, tripped and fell. At that point pursuing deputies observed a weapon in the suspect's hand as he turned and pointed the weapon at them. Three pursuing deputies fired multiple shots, killing the suspect. No officers from any of the agencies involved were injured during the pursuit or during the shooting incident.

The Washington County Sheriff's Office identified the man shot and killed by police Tuesday evening after a pursuit as Phillip Cameron Gibson II, 37, of Castlewood, Virginia in an 11:00 A.M. press conference.

"The suspect has a lengthy criminal record of 23 felony convictions, which include multiple grand larceny, eluding police, aggravated assault and weapons and guns violations," said Sheriff Fred Newman.

The Virginia State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigation is handle the incident, the three deputies involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

"As Sheriff of Washington County, Virginia, for the past 18 plus years, it is obvious the level of criminal violence has escalated. When offenders stop utilizing weapons against law enforcement, we as law enforcement will not have to utilize deadly force to protect and ourselves and the law-abiding citizens," stated Newman.

A man was shot and killed by police Tuesday evening after a pursuit that ended in Glade Spring, Washington County Sheriff Fred Newman said.

About 7:30 p.m., Newman said one of his patrol officers observed a vehicle in Abingdon that was believed to have been involved in a theft on Monday. In that incident, Newman said a handgun had been stolen from a residence in the lower end of the county.

The officer stopped the vehicle and began to speak with the driver, who was alone. In an attempt to flee from the officer, the person then drove off and began traveling through the town of Abingdon, Newman said.

The driver got onto Interstate 81 at Exit 17, traveled north and then exited at Exit 22, the sheriff said. The vehicle then traveled on Enterprise Road and Lee Highway and into the town of Glade Spring.

The pursuit continued through several town and county roads, and police attempted to use spike strips to stop the vehicle. The Virginia State Police and Glade Spring Police Department joined the pursuit.

About 25 minutes into the pursuit, a State Police trooper conducted a pit maneuver at the intersection of state Route 91 and U.S. Highway 11. A pit maneuver occurs when a police cruiser forces a fleeing car to abruptly turn sideways, causing the driver to lose control. The maneuver led the vehicle to run into a utility pole, Newman said.

The driver managed to exit the wrecked vehicle and ran on foot to a nearby business, where Newman said the man attempted to enter two vehicles. The man then ran across U.S. Highway 11 to another business.

While trying to climb an embankment, the man fell, Newman said. The man, who was holding a handgun, turned and pointed the weapon at police officers, Newman said. The responding officers then fired their weapons and shot the man.

The man died at the scene and was covered with a white sheet as police began to investigate.

Newman said no officers were injured during the pursuit or during the shooting.

The State Police are investigating the shooting. State Police spokeswoman Corinne Geller had no additional details.

Newman declined to identify the man shot and killed by officers and referred other questions about the shooting to State Police.

The sheriff has scheduled a press conference on the shooting for 11 a.m. Wednesday.