It was supposed to be an easy $2,000 for 18-year-old Carlos Casillas-Mendoza.

As part of the heist, Casillas-Mendoza's job was to rob a buyer who agreed to meet Casillas-Mendoza and his partner, Giovanny Leon, to purchase 16 pounds of methamphetamine at a Food City parking lot in Mesa, according to court documents.

In return, Casillas-Mendoza and Leon would split the stolen cash and leave the buyer empty-handed.

But unbeknownst to them, the buyer was an undercover federal agent with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. During the failed robbery, the agent fatally shot Leon when he pointed his pistol at the agent, police have said.

More details of the shooting were made available on Thursday in a probable-cause statement by the Mesa Police Department, which is investigating the shooting but was not part of the undercover operation.

ICE's drug-trafficking inquiries

The unsuccessful stickup took place about 1:30 p.m. Tuesday at a Food City parking lot on Alma School Road and Eighth Avenue, about a half-mile north of Southern Avenue.

The agent had agreed to meet Leon there under the pretext that the ICE agent wanted to buy drugs from Leon and Casillas-Mendoza, according to the probable-cause statement.

Police said Leon arrived with a bag that looked look like there were drugs in it, the police statement says.

Now, Leon, 23, is dead and Casillas-Mendoza is being held by authorities in a Maricopa County jail on suspicion of first-degree murder, armed robbery, aggravated robbery and selling or transferring drugs.

Under state law, if a person dies while somebody commits certain felonies, that person can be held responsible, regardless of who actually pulled the trigger.

When Leon had pulled out a gun, the agent had given a signal to other agents who were nearby ready to arrest Leon and Casillas-Mendoza. The police statement says the agent, who hasn't been identified, shot at Leon when Leon tried to shoot at the agent.

As the other agents approached the scene, Leon pointed his gun at them, the court document says, and fatally shot him.

Immediately after the shooting, police found Casillas-Mendoza holding a BB gun in the vehicle he and Leon had arrived in.

Casillas-Mendoza later told police in an interview that he was there to help Leon rob the agent of any cash, drugs and firearms the agent may have had, the court document says.

His job, he told police, was to wait in the car until he got a signal from Leon, the court document says.

For his part of the robbery, he told police he was supposed to get $2,000, the court document says.

ICE is primarily known to arrest undocumented immigrants for deportation. But among the agency's duties is conducts drug-trafficking investigations.

It's not clear how often ICE conducts undercover investigations in Maricopa County, or if the agency had alerted Mesa police it was doing this specific sting.

Mesa police are investigating the shooting and will later forward the evidence to the Maricopa County Attorney's Office for review to determine if any charges should be filed against the agent or agents who shot Leon.

An ICE spokeswoman has said the shooting is also under internal review and would not comment beyond that.

2nd fatal ICE shooting in 2 months

The incident was the second fatal shooting involving an ICE agent in the past two months in Maricopa County.

On March 2, an ICE agent shot and killed Erik Dunham while attempting to serve a felony warrant. Dunham had failed to appear for a sentencing hearing for a recent human-trafficking conviction.

In recent years, shootings by ICE agents have come under scrutiny by advocacy groups and families of the people shot.

Statistics on how many instances where ICE agents fired their guns at people nationwide are not readily available.

A report of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security inspector general found that ICE used lethal force on six occasions in fiscal year 2015. But that same report, which was published in January 2017, also says that ICE has failed to accurately report use-of-force data to DHS, which oversees the agency.

In April 2017, the mother of 20-year-old Terrance Kellom filed a federal wrongful death lawsuit against ICE and Agent Mitchell Quinn, who shot Kellom in Detroit. The man was killed as ICE agents and Detroit police were serving a warrant for armed robbery and weapons charges.

The lawsuit, which is seeking $50 million, claims police didn't present a warrant for the man's arrest and that officers also falsified reports that Kellom threatened the agents with a hammer.

Reach the reporter at uriel.garcia@azcentral.com or on Twitter: @ujohnnyg.

READ MORE: