Thomas Vyverman, 56, from Kalamazoo, was arraigned in Kalamazoo County District Court on charges that include fleeing and eluding causing death, operating while intoxicated causing death, leaving the scene of an accident and resisting and obstructing arrest.EVyverman is alleged to have cause the traffic accident that killed 62-year-old Mary Muniz and 66-year-old Juan Muniz, both from Kalamazoo.

KALAMAZOO, MI --Police reports and dash cam footage have shed new light on the events leading up to a March crash in Kalamazoo that killed two people.

Thomas Vyverman, 56, faces five felony charges in the Tuesday, March 20 deaths of Mary and Juan Muniz. Vyverman is charged with two counts of operating under the influence causing death, two counts of first-degree fleeing a police officer and one count of assaulting, resisting or obstructing a police officer.

The Kalamazoo Gazette received police reports detailing the crash and what led up to it through a Freedom of Information Act request.

Officers responded to the area of Washington and Division streets in the Edison neighborhood shortly before 11:30 p.m. March 20 on reports of a man driving in a pickup truck with a gun.

Public Safety Officer Joel West said in a report that he spotted Vyverman's Ford F-150 after another officer reported Vyverman had failed to stop. West followed Vyverman's Ford F-150 west on Stockbridge Avenue as it turned right onto Portage Street. The truck went north on Portage Street.

Juan Muniz and Mary Muniz, both of Kalamazoo, died in the March 20 crash.

West said he turned on his lights to try to stop the vehicle, but he turned off his lights and told dispatchers he would not actively pursue the truck as it picked up speed, fleeing north on Portage. A public safety officer going south on Portage also turned around in front of West's patrol car to follow the truck, and another patrol car pulled ahead from a side street.

Vyverman's truck crashed a half-mile later at the corner of Portage Street and Crosstown Avenue, hitting a car driven by Mary Muniz, which wast turning left from southbound Portage Street onto east Crosstown Parkway.

Muniz was pronounced dead at the scene and her husband, Juan Muniz, was extricated from the vehicle by first responders. He died in the emergency room of Bronson Methodist Hospital.

Vyverman ran from the scene but was tackled and arrested by an officer after a short chase. One officer described Vyverman's appearance as "glassy eyes, slurred his speech, and the smell of intoxicants was quite overwhelming being very close to his proximity."

Officers searched Vyverman's car and found several bottles of Fireball whiskey on the floorboard. Some of the bottles were empty and some were half to three-quarters full.

KDPS Lab Specialist Gary Latham used surveillance video from a Portage Street business to determine Vyverman's vehicle was going 61 to 68 mph just before the impact. Latham said the video showed Vyverman did hit his brake lights before the impact.

According to the video footage, Muniz's Chevrolet Malibu had the right-of-way at the light.

In an interview with KDPS Detective John Stolsonburg at Bronson hospital following the crash, Vyverman said he took a woman in his truck down Washington Avenue and she wouldn't get out of the truck. He told the detective the woman is "a crazy woman" and wouldn't leave him alone.

Vyverman said he saw a police car following him and thought he would get pulled over, so when he turned onto Portage Road he began speeding up.

"I asked if he was trying to get away from the police and he said no, he just wanted to get home and not pulled over," Stolsonburg wrote in the report. "He said he thought if he could just speed up a little bit, he could be on Portage Road and be home before the police caught up to him."

Vyverman told Stolsonburg he thought he had a green light.

Vyverman denied having a gun in his car, and said he dropped the woman off near the intersection of Washington and Division. He said at first she wouldn't get out of his car but finally did after he said he would call the police. He said he and the woman hung out and had some drinks before he dropped her off.

Vyverman said he panicked after crashing into the Malibu. He told Stolsonburg he didn't know why he was afraid of police contact, and said he was afraid of getting in trouble because he was on probation and had been drinking.

The man who called police reporting that Vyverman had a gun said he called because the woman who was with Vyverman was complaining about him. He said Vyverman "was honking his horn excessively, squealing his tires and was parked in the area and driving around the area for about an hour."

The man said he didn't actually see Vyverman with a gun. Officers did not report finding a gun on him.

Public Safety Officer Brendan Westrick said as he approached Vyverman in the foot chase, Vyverman looked back and said, "Don't do this to me man." Westrick tackled him shortly afterwards.

In an interview with police, Vyverman said multiple times "I know I f----- up." Vyverman told police he had been drinking one to two pints of Fireball about 30 minutes before the crash, according to an application for a search warrant. He also told officers he knew he was likely intoxicated but said he did not believe his level of intoxication affected his ability to drive.

A blood draw showed Vyverman had a blood-alcohol content of 0.21 percent, more than two times the legal limit of 0.08 percent.

At his arraignment, Vyverman told Kalamazoo County District Court Judge Richard A. Santoni he had stopped drinking for 27 years and started drinking again recently due to a bad relationship.

"I'm not a bad person, I'm really not. ... I'm not dangerous," Vyverman said.

Santoni said he disagreed with Vyverman, saying he considered him to be a dangerous person and that he had a responsibility to protect society from Vyverman.

"There are two human beings going to their graves very shortly because of this incident," Santoni said at the arraignment.

Vyverman waived a preliminary examination on evidence against him in April and will stand trial on the charges. He remains in the Kalamazoo County Jail on a $500,000 cash or surety bond.