Destini Lawson didn't believe the news until she saw the black Pontiac with her own eyes.

Lawson left a doctor's appointment as soon as she heard that her aunt Dana Nichole Sowards had been killed in a crash Tuesday afternoon in west Springfield.

But it didn't seem real until Lawson looked over the crime scene tape and saw Sowards's mangled Pontiac, which was part of a multiple-vehicle crash that followed a police pursuit.

Springfield police have said the pursuit was not active at the time of the crash.

Lawson said it was surreal arriving at the crash scene Tuesday afternoon.

"Basically shock," Lawson said of her reaction. "I didn't think it was true until I walked up and saw the cars."

Lawson said Sowards, 31, was a wife and mother of two young children who worked in child care at Ozarks Technical Community College.

"She was always happy, she was never down," Lawson said. "She was an inspiration to everybody."

Springfield police say Tuesday's incident started in the parking lot of the Price Cutter at Chestnut Expressway and West Bypass at 2:40 p.m. when detectives saw Tommy Morris Jr. hit a pedestrian and drive off.

Officers tried to stop Morris but he fled. A pursuit ensued, according to police.

Police say they lost sight of Morris's car near Scenic Avenue and Catalpa Street.

Moments later, police say, Morris plowed into several cars at the intersection of Scenic Avenue and Mt. Vernon Street.

Sowards, who was not involved in the pursuit, died as a result of the crash into her Pontiac.

Lawson told the News-Leader on Wednesday the family has some concerns about the police chase that preceded the crash.

Lawson said she feels like police should not have been engaged in a high-speed chase through a neighborhood with other cars on the roadway.

Still, Lawson said she appreciated the efforts made by first responders as they tried to save her aunt, and she feels the blame is ultimately at the feet of Morris.

More:Man led officers on chase, then caused fatal crash, police say

Morris, 54, was booked into the Greene County Jail on Tuesday evening after suffering minor injuries in the crash. On Wednesday afternoon, Morris was charged with second-degree murder in connection with the crash.

Police said they believe impairment might have been a factor in the crash.

The Springfield Police Department declined to address the specifics of the pursuit on Wednesday, saying the incident was being reviewed by the chain of command.

Meanwhile, Lawson said her family is trying to cope with planning Sowards's funeral after celebrating her 31st birthday on Sunday.

"She was a great person," Lawson said. "Everybody loved her."

The family is asking for donations to help with funeral expenses. Donations can be made online at GoFundMe.com/5fco8qo or through Greenlawn South Funeral Home.

LeeAnne Wallace became friends with Sowards after Sowards taught Wallace's son's preschool class several years ago at Cox Learning Center.

Wallace said Sowards had a caring personality.

"She loved her kids," Wallace said. "She always put them first. She put herself on the back burner."

Wallace said she will miss Sowards's friendship and quirky text messages.

"She was just a very sincere, selfless person," Wallace said.

More:Man shot and killed by deputies after raising handgun identified