GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — A man holding a deputy and his father hostage was allowed to speak to his ex-girlfriend on the phone last week moments before he killed the pair, Greenville County Sheriff Steve Loftis says.

Loftis said he and other deputies decided to let Kamell Delshawn Evans talk to the ex-girlfriend, who is also the deputy's sister, because negotiations during the five-hour standoff had been going well.

"Had there been any indication that he was going to do what he did, we could have changed the plan," Loftis said. "As long as the situation was calm, you let it remain calm. You leave it alone. You don't do anything that may change the subject's frame of mind or that may cause him to do something."

The two had a brief, but calm, conversation. Then deputies heard several gunshots.

A SWAT team stormed into the Mauldin house and found deputy Joe Sapinoso and his father, Antonio, shot several times in the head. Evans was arrested and has since been charged with two counts of murder.

Loftis refused to talk about what the negotiator, a veteran with 15 years experience, and the suspect talked about during the standoff.

Evans never made any demands or threats. At one point he allowed the negotiator to speak with deputy Sapinoso, who said he was OK, Loftis said.

The negotiator asked Evans several times to release a hostage, and he ignored the request, the sheriff said. Deputies didn't try to end the standoff because the negotiations were going well.

Snipers also surrounded the house, but the sheriff said they were never given permission to shoot.

Allowing the suspect to talk to his ex-girlfriend was a risky move, said Clint Van Zandt, who ran the FBI's negotiation program.

"That's one of those double-edged swords. Sometimes you put that person on so they can bring his emotional level down so he got what he wanted," Van Zandt said.

But the strategy can sometimes backfire because the police no longer have an enticement to get the suspect to surrender, Van Zandt said.

"Sometimes, when you're right you're right and when you're wrong, somebody dies," said Van Zandt, who was a negotiator at the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas. "But that doesn't mean the negotiator was wrong."