MARTINS FERRY — The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation completed its investigation into the shooting death of a Martins Ferry man by law enforcement last May.

“BCI has turned its findings over to our special prosecutor, but because this is still an ongoing law enforcement matter, I can’t elaborate on the findings at this time,” said Jill Del Greco, spokeswoman with the Ohio Attorney General’s Office. “The case will be presented to a Belmont County grand jury to determine if charges should be filed.”

Kevin Nickle, 59, was fatally shot on May 16 by police who were responding to an emergency call at 57558 Washington Blvd., Martins Ferry. On the day Nickle was shot, he allegedly was chasing his family members with a knife around the home. When officers and deputies reached the home, they found another man outside who identified the suspect as his brother, Kevin Nickle. He said Nickle and his mother were still in the house. The man also told police officers and sheriff’s deputies that his mother was locked in a room inside.

Law enforcement personnel were able to get the mother out of the house through another exit. They noticed Nickle was still inside trying to start a fire, and that’s when they “breached” the house.

Belmont County Prosecutor Dan Fry previously said law enforcement ordered Nickle to drop a weapon he was holding. When he refused, one of the deputies or officers tried to use a stun gun on the man to subdue him but the device had no effect on the man. Law enforcement then made the decision to shoot the man.

Fry requested that the state’s Special Prosecutions Section review the case instead of his office.

If the grand jury does not issue an indictment based on the findings, the case will be closed.

Fry previously said he requested that his office not review the case because his office works closely with local law enforcement officers every day. He wanted to avoid even the appearance of impropriety in the investigation.

Belmont County Sheriff Dave Lucas said at the time of the incident that a sheriff’s deputy and a Martins Ferry police officer were involved in the shooting. He also noted that Bridgeport police officers also responded to the scene.

In May, Lucas and Martins Ferry Police Chief John McFarland said separate legal counsel was hired to represent their respective officers involved in the shooting.