By: WCTV Eyewitness News

May 24, 2018

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WCTV) -- The Leon County Sheriff's Office has confirmed that a suspect in a home burglary incident on Tuesday night has died at the hospital.

LCSO Lieutenant Grady Jordan identified the man as 46-year-old Eddie James Morris.

Just before 11 p.m. Tuesday, authorities responded to a report of a home burglary in progress in the 100 block of Lawndale Road. Officers with the Tallahassee Police Department arrived on scene first and engaged Morris, who was being held at gunpoint by the homeowner.

Authorities say Morris was tasered by police after he allegedly advanced towards officers and raised a lamp over his head, in a position to strike an officer with it. Morris continued to struggle with officers and was tasered a second time.

While being treated by EMS at the scene, Morris began to exhibit signs of "excited delirium" and his condition began to decline. Morris then lost consciousness and EMS began CPR.

Morris was rushed to Tallahassee Memorial Hospital in critical condition and passed away on Thursday morning. A cause of death is not yet known.

By: Fletcher Keel | WCTV Eyewitness News

May 23, 2018

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WCTV) -- The Tallahassee Police Department has arrested a man who reportedly attempted to break in to a home and was subsequently held at gunpoint by the homeowner.

Officials says around 11 p.m. on Tuesday, officers and Leon County Sheriff's Office deputies responded to a residence in the 100 block of Lawndale Road regarding a burglary. Deputies say the caller informed officials that the suspect was banging on the door and screaming into the residence before breaking a window to enter.

According to deputies, the suspect was holding a lamp as he was confronted by the homeowner, who was armed. Officials say the suspect informed the resident that he was being "chased by a bear," after the resident told him to leave the residence.

Deputies say the suspect was held at gunpoint by the homeowner until law enforcement arrived.

Officials say Tallahassee Police officers were first to arrive on the scene and engaged the suspect, who began to advance towards officers with the lamp raised, in a position to strike.

An officer used a taser in an effort to restrain the suspect until they were able to gain control of the suspect and handcuff him.

An EMS request was made due to taser deployment, and the suspect began to show signs of excited delirium.

Officials say while being treated by EMS, the suspect's condition began to decline, and he eventually lost consciousness. At that point, officials say EMS began CPR.

Authorities say the suspect was transported to a local medical facility and is in critical condition.