Gurnee police released video of a May 23, 2018 confrontation on Route 41 that ended with officers shooting a woman armed with a military-style rifle.

Police body camera footage depicting the shooting of an apparently drug-impaired Antioch woman walking along Route 41 in broad daylight with a military-style rifle in her hands last year was released by Gurnee police.

A roughly 23-minute video clip, one of several body camera recordings made during the incident, shows many of the factors State’s Attorney Michael Nerheim cited in ruling last summer that the two officers involved in the shooting “acted reasonably and appropriately” in the May 23, 2018, confrontation.

Advertisement

The video shows officers pleading with 31-year-old Makell Meyerin of Antioch for several minutes to drop the weapon and promising to let her see her friend, a man who had just been taken into custody but was unconscious due to intoxication, according to police.

The woman was asking to speak to that friend when an officer can be heard telling the woman that he was not conscious, and that they would be able to concentrate on his situation once the confrontation ended.

Advertisement

“Your boyfriend’s fine — he’s breathing," one officer says. "He’s fine, I promise. I just checked him, he’s got a pulse. He’s breathing. Lay the gun down so we can take care of him.”

But the woman continued walking slowly along the southbound shoulder of Route 41 toward an area where officers were stationed by the roadside.

“Put the gun down. No one wants to hurt you," another officer is heard saying. "You’re not in trouble. Put the gun down.”

The officers repeatedly asked and commanded that she drop the rifle, using words like “sweetie” and “honey” to try to soothe her, Nerheim noted in his formal release on the ruling.

Both Nerheim and Gurnee Police Chief Brian Smith said that the officers showed a lot of restraint before finally opening fire.

Lake County Major Crime task force along with Gurnee police on the scene of a shooting on Route 41 on May 23, 2018, in Gurnee. (Joe Shuman / News-Sun)

“I think it shows a lot of patience and restraint,” Gurnee Police Chief Brian Smith said Thursday morning.

Smith added that it is up to the officers themselves to decide if and when to fire their guns, and that once that decision is made, the objective is to stop the threat immediately.

Despite the commands to stop and drop the weapon, the woman continued to approach and appeared to be ingesting drugs even as she was nearing the officers, which Nerheim noted.

Advertisement

Nerheim’s report included that toxicology results found numerous drugs in Meyerin’s system, including opiates, cocaine/metabolites, benzodiazepines, clonazepam, naloxone, which is an opiate overdose antidote, and fentanyl, a strong opiate.

On the video, the woman can be seen pointing the gun upward under her jaw.

“Ma’am, don’t do it," an officer says. "Her finger’s on the trigger, she’s got the barrel to her chin.”

Just prior to being shot, the woman took a few steps toward officers, then moved sideways a bit, and police commands to drop the gun became louder and more forceful.

With the weapon pointed in the direction of officers, Meyerin appears to be saying "I will give it to you, (if you) let me see him” as police opened fire with five shots, and then she fell onto the pavement of Route 41.

Officers immediately made sure the weapon was cleared and put in a rescue call for the woman and attempted to administer first aid.

Advertisement

In his report, Nerheim said the woman’s gun, a Beretta Cx5 Storm tactical carbine rifle, had one live shell in the chamber, and that the magazine contained five live rounds. The selector switch was in the ‘fire’ position.”

According to Nerheim, the results of an investigation by the Lake County Major Crime Task Force, reviewed by his office, found that Meyerin “ignored repeated requests from the police to remain calm and to drop her gun” and that “multiple officers heard her ‘rack’ her gun in order to prepare it for firing” before she leveled the rifle toward the officers.

Nerheim said after reviewing the video again Thursday that “in my opinion, these officers did everything they could not to shoot her. They utilized incredible restraint.”

He emphasized that her leveling the gun in the direction of officers after they had repeatedly pleaded with her to drop it had put their lives in immediate danger.

Authorities said Meyerin was transported to Advocate Condell Medical Center in Libertyville, where she was pronounced deceased at 2:33 p.m., about an hour after Gurnee officers responded to a call about a suspicious car at the intersection of Harper Avenue and Gould Avenue in a residential area on the village’s east side.

The responding officer approached the vehicle, and found a man in the front passenger side — later identified as 37-year-old Jordan Huff of Antioch Township — and Meyerin , both of whom were unconscious.

Advertisement

The officer was able to wake up Meyerin and attempted to render aid to her, but she fled in the vehicle, according to reports, making a U-turn and driving across a residential lawn to evade the officer.

Meyerin then drove erratically through a construction zone, police said, and sped on residential streets until she crashed her car in a public park. While her friend remained passed out in the car, she armed herself with the rifle, police said.

Meyerin then walked onto Route 41, leading to the confrontation with police and the eventual shooting.

Nerheim also noted in the report that “through her actions, (Meyerin) displayed familiarity and competence in the handling/operation of the rifle. Whether she was crawling on the ground, walking with the gun in hand, maneuvering the weapon into position, or operating the firing mechanism, she displayed a keen awareness as to its operation.”

Nerheim said that by refusing police commands to drop the weapon, “she was placing countless individuals in danger including numerous police officers, citizens in neighboring single-family homes, citizens at Chittenden Park, citizens in the surrounding yards and walkways, and countless motorists on Route 41.”