Marta Martínez is no stranger to recording border agents or police activity near her house, which sits less than half a mile from the Rio Grande. She admits she lives with her phone in her hand.



Martínez said she didn’t hear any shouts or orders from Border Patrol officers before she heard the single shot that hot, sunny day in May. Claudia had fallen dead just feet from her bathroom window.

Martínez said she started following the shouts of Border Patrol agents, recording as she ducked behind the cars parked in her driveway.

“I wasn’t scared at the moment because I didn’t expect to see what I saw,” Martínez said in Spanish. “I thought he had fired up into the air.”

In an unpublished video viewed by BuzzFeed News, the sounds of ambulance sirens and crackling Border Patrol radios get louder as Martínez walks closer to the back of the empty lot, which is overrun by brush and trash.

“Come over here,” a Border Patrol agent can be heard saying in a mix of English and Spanish to a migrant man, one of the people Claudia had been with. “Come with me... What’s your friend’s name?”

As the border agent takes the man into custody and walks him toward the street, he points in Martínez’s direction and tells another agent that there are two more migrants on her property. They were hiding inside a dark and crumbling trailer home that occupies a spot on the lot.

Moments later, Martínez’s camera points to Claudia’s motionless body. She’s facedown in the brush near the chain-link fence that divides the two properties.

“Hey, we don’t want footage in there,” an agent tells Martínez.

“Why did you guys shoot him?” Martínez says, ignoring the agent.

“Hey, no, please, don’t get into this,” the Border Patrol agent says.

Martínez stays near the fence and continues to record. Claudia’s head is pointing to one of the front corners of the property, and her feet are near the fence. When the agent flips Claudia’s body over, the video captures Martínez’s horrified gasp. Blood covers the woman’s face. Martínez said that’s when she realized how young Claudia was.

“Oh my god, she's a girl, and you guys shoot her in the face,” Martínez says to the agents, her voice rising with shock.

That’s when Martínez went live on Facebook and started to follow the Border Patrol agents around her property as they detained two more migrant men. She asks repeatedly why the agents shot the young woman. At times, her tone is scolding.

“Why did you kill that woman? You killed her!” Martínez is heard saying to the agents. “I saw you with the gun.”

Later that day, CBP put out its first version of what had happened. In a statement, it said a lone Border Patrol agent had discovered a group of migrant people near a culvert. “Initial reports indicate that as the agent attempted to apprehend the group, he came under attack by multiple subjects using blunt objects,” the statement said, describing Claudia as “one of the assailants.” The agent, the statement said, then fired at least one shot and killed Claudia.

Two days later, CBP issued another statement, this time omitting any mention of blunt objects. It said a 15-year veteran of the Border Patrol had been “allegedly assaulted” and “rushed.”

“According to the agent, the group ignored his verbal commands [to get on the ground] and instead rushed him,” the statement read.

Martínez’s unpublished video, which she’s turned over to the FBI, challenges those accounts. For one, several agents are visible, though whether they arrived before or after the shooting isn’t apparent. For another, Claudia’s body is in the bushes near the fence that separates the empty lot from Martínez’s. Martínez thinks Claudia probably was hiding.

“It really angers and saddens me at the same time,” Martínez said.

George Altgelt, the attorney for the Border Patrol agent and a city council member in nearby Laredo, declined to go into specifics but said his client was innocent of any wrongdoing.

“A tragedy occurred, albeit not at the hands of my client,” Altgelt told BuzzFeed News. “We look forward to the government asking the really tough questions as to the real culprit of this tragedy.”

In addition to the FBI and Texas Rangers, the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice is looking into the shooting, Altgelt said. The Department of Justice said it does not confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of investigations.

As part of the federal inquiry into the shooting, hours after the incident, an officer with the Webb County District Attorney’s Office searched the lot, recovering, according to a copy of a search warrant obtained by BuzzFeed News, four “long sticks,” a black and gray coat, an ID, a cellphone, and Claudia’s body.



The search warrant contradicts CBP’s initial statement about a lone agent cornering a group of people, stating that “agents” had chased a group of migrants into the empty lot, which had cinderblock walls at the front and back. Michael Wu, the officer who executed the warrant, was told by an FBI agent at the scene that the agent who shot Claudia had been attacked with a stick and fired the bullet in self-defense, according to the warrant. Wu declined to answer questions when contacted by BuzzFeed News.

“It’s a way dangerous situation crossing the US–Mexico border illegally. It’s also a very dangerous job being a US Border Patrol agent,” Altgelt said. “Our hearts go out to the young lady and her family. We’re looking forward to the full investigation of this case and the clearing of my client’s good name” — which has been circulating at protests over the shooting, though not officially released.