FOX CROSSING - The May 23 police shooting of Joshua M. Gomoll was justified and no charges will be filed against officer Seely Moe, the Winnebago County District Attorney's Office said Wednesday.

Moe shot the 25-year-old Gomoll three times after he was spotted with a knife on the Fox Cities Trestle Trail bridge and didn't respond to commands to get down on the ground. Moe shot Gomoll a fourth time after he tried to get up from the bridge. Police also used a Taser on Gomoll before rendering aid.

Gomoll died at the scene from gunshots to his chest and abdomen, according to the autopsy report.

"The events of May 23, 2018, were a tragedy for everyone involved, including the Gomoll family, the officers and the community," the district attorney's office said in a statement.

Police had responded to the area near Fritse Park for a man acting erratically and threatening people with a knife. Witnesses said the man kicked over a mailbox and was running toward cars and people. The man, later identified as Gomoll, told a construction worker, "You think it’s a (expletive) game. I’m going to (expletive) kill you.”

RELATED: Review of Fox Crossing fatal police shooting waits on 'missing pieces'

RELATED: Gomoll's mother says 'Nothing is making sense to me'

As Moe arrived at Fritse Park, he yelled for people to get away from Gomoll. He radioed that Gomoll was running onto the bridge and that he had a knife.

Body camera video captured the moments before and after the shooting.

Moe pointed his rifle at Gomoll and repeatedly ordered him to get down on the ground or he would shoot. Gomoll can be heard on the video saying “Nope.” After another command from Moe, Gomoll responded, “Come on. Do it.”

As Moe continued to command Gomoll to get down on the ground, Gomoll took about five steps toward Moe with the knife in his hand. Moe fired three shots, and Gomoll fell face down onto the bridge. Moe was about 18 feet away from Gomoll at the time.

Video shows that as Gomoll tried to get up from the bridge, Moe fired another shot.

"After the fourth shot, Mr. Gomoll immediately fell onto his back with his arms slightly outstretched, and he stated, 'I'm dead,'" the district attorney's office said. Gomoll then grabbed a railing on the bridge and flipped onto his stomach.

After the shots, police continued to see Gomoll as a threat because he collapsed with the knife underneath him. Officers used a Taser on Gomoll before they kicked away the knife, handcuffed him and rendered aid.

Gomoll's mother, Marsha Rowe, could not be immediately reached for comment. She previously questioned what her son could have said or done that would have caused Moe to open fire.

"People say (expletive) to me every day of the week that I don't really care for," Rowe told USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin. "Does that justify me shooting them? No. They could have done a million other things."

The Wisconsin Department of Justice investigated the shooting, and the district attorney's office reviewed the investigative files before ruling that the shooting was justified.

During the investigation, Moe was placed on paid administrative leave in accordance with the police department's policy. Three years ago, Moe was one of the first officers to respond to the trestle trail bridge for a shooting that left four people dead and one critically injured.