Austin L. Miller

austin.miller@ocala.com

The State Attorney's Office has cleared the Marion County Sheriff's Office deputy who shot and killed a Phoenix House resident last year.

Assistant State Attorney Janine A. Nixon, who reviewed the case, notes there was probable cause to believe Dustin Odom, the man who was shot and killed, had violated his felony probation. She also notes that Odom fled and ignored lawful and clear commands from Deputy Roy Johnson, who was searching for Odom on the wooded grounds of Phoenix, which is an adult residential drug and alcohol addiction treatment center in Citra.

"Odom then came toward Deputy Roy Johnson, from a well concealed hiding spot, initially with his hands up. Then Odom put his hands to his waist, in direct contravention of the orders Deputy Roy Johnson was shouting, and put his hands into a shooting stance aiming at Deputy Roy Johnson. Deputy Roy Johnson was in fear for his life and shot at Odom justifiably," Nixon wrote.

Nixon wrote that Florida statute 776.012 "provides that anyone is justified in the use of deadly force when necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself, herself or another."

Nixon said the deputy did not have a duty to retreat before using deadly force, and Odom "did not have the right to assault or threaten the Deputy who was in the performance of his official duties and identified."

Nixon concluded that Johnson "acted reasonably under the circumstances and therefore his actions were justified."

A Tampa lawyer representing Odom's family declined comment when reached by the Star-Banner. Johnson's attorney, Jimmie Sparrow of Gainesville, also declined comment.

In a statement to the Star-Banner, Sheriff Billy Woods said: “My deputies and law enforcement around the United States are faced with the potential decision to take someone’s life every day they put on the uniform. Their goal is always to protect the citizens they serve and themselves from harm. I would like to thank FDLE and the State Attorney’s Office for their diligence in this investigation, and the men and women of the MCSO for all the hard work that they do to protect the citizens of Marion County.”

Odom was shot and killed on the grounds of Phoenix House, 15681 N. U.S. 301, the afternoon of May 24. On that day, Odom, 30, ran away from Johnson, who was trying to arrest him for violating the terms of drug-offender probation.

Johnson was called to Phoenix House because staff members reported to Odom's probation officer that Odom had not complied with the facility's rules and regulations. Odom's probation officer made arrangements for Odom to be arrested.

According to Nixon's report, once Odom was aware that Johnson was on property and he was going to be arrested, he ran out the door and into a wooded area "with thick undergrowth." Deputies set up a perimeter and tried various ways to find Odom.

Johnson eventually found Odom hiding in the thick woods and ordered him to come out with his hands up.

As shown on the deputy's body camera, Odom walked toward the deputy with his hands up. He then lowered his hands to his waist, lifted his shirt with one hand, and with the other hand reached into his waistband. Odom then pulled both hands out from his waist together and lifted them in what was described by the prosecutor as "a shooting stance."

Believing Odom had a weapon and was aiming it, Johnson fired at Odom several times, hitting him. Johnson's brother and fellow deputy, Kevin, was there at the time of the shooting.

Roy Johnson testified "he was in fear for his life when Odom reached for his waistband and pulled his hands into a shooting stance," Nixon's report states. Kevin Johnson did not give a statement to the prosecutor. Kevin Johnson had his stun gun, which he fired at Odom.

After the shooting, the deputies performed life-saving measures and called for medical personnel. Odom died on scene.

According to Nixon's report, Odom "had previously expressed the desire to take his own life rather than go to prison." That information was known by the staff at Phoenix House; however, it was not given to the Johnsons.

No one at Phoenix House could be reached for comment on Thursday.

Odom did not have a firearm or any other weapon at the time he was shot, Nixon reports. But Odom "made all the motions one would associate with having a firearm or other weapon and reaching for it. It is not unreasonable to believe that Odom purposely provoked the officers into shooting him," she wrote.

Sheriff's Office officials said the brothers have been with the agency more than 20 years combined. The deputies returned to work roughly two weeks after the shooting while the Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigated. Roy Johnson’s personnel file indicates he is a Marine Corps veteran who started with the agency as a corrections officer.

Presently, Roy Johnson and three other deputies are on paid leave in the shooting of David Riley, 46, of McIntosh earlier this month. Riley was later released from the hospital and is at the Marion County Jail on several charges. He is behind held without bail. It's customary for law officers to be on administrative leave after an officer-involved shooting.

Sparrow is representing Johnson and another deputy in that shooting.

Contact Austin L. Miller at 867-4118, austin.miller@starbanner.com or @almillerosb