What started as a child porn arrest turned deadly in Polk County.The sheriff said a deputy opened fire when the suspect went for his partner's gun. People living in the small town of Dundee, Florida are not used to hearing gunfire.Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said his detective had no choice but to shoot and kill a child pornography suspect.It began around 10 a.m. Friday.Investigators said two computer crimes detectives went to a home on 8th Street North after reports of someone downloading child porn.When crews arrived, Andres Estrada, 21, and his 18-year-old brother, Claudio, allowed the detectives to come inside.They soon found child porn on Andres' cellphone, officials said.The male deputy stepped outside to call his supervisor.Inside, violence erupted.Officials said when the male detective went back inside the home, the female detective was heard screaming, 'Get him off of me.' An officer saw the suspect beating the female detective and she was trying to access her gun.Six feet tall and weighing 220 pounds, deputies said Andres weighed more than twice as much as the female detective.Attempts by Claudio to remove his brother didn't work.Deputies said Andres also did not listen to commands to stop brutally beating the female detective.Her partner then fired at least three shots, ultimately killing Andres.The female detective has been treated and released from the hospital.

What started as a child porn arrest turned deadly in Polk County.

The sheriff said a deputy opened fire when the suspect went for his partner's gun.

Advertisement

People living in the small town of Dundee, Florida are not used to hearing gunfire.

Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said his detective had no choice but to shoot and kill a child pornography suspect.

It began around 10 a.m. Friday.

Investigators said two computer crimes detectives went to a home on 8th Street North after reports of someone downloading child porn.

When crews arrived, Andres Estrada, 21, and his 18-year-old brother, Claudio, allowed the detectives to come inside.

They soon found child porn on Andres' cellphone, officials said.

The male deputy stepped outside to call his supervisor.

Inside, violence erupted.

Officials said when the male detective went back inside the home, the female detective was heard screaming, 'Get him off of me.' An officer saw the suspect beating the female detective and she was trying to access her gun.

Six feet tall and weighing 220 pounds, deputies said Andres weighed more than twice as much as the female detective.

Attempts by Claudio to remove his brother didn't work.

Deputies said Andres also did not listen to commands to stop brutally beating the female detective.

Her partner then fired at least three shots, ultimately killing Andres.

The female detective has been treated and released from the hospital.