Makenzie Holland and Tim Buckland StarNews Staff

OGDEN -- A man wanted by Wilmington police who had barricaded himself in his dad's Ogden home was shot and killed by law enforcement early Tuesday morning after coming out with a gun and threatening deputies.

The man was identified by the New Hanover County Sheriff's Office as 20-year-old Josh Nash Bryant.

Deputies responded to 2708 Valor Drive a little after 8 p.m. Monday in reference to a suicidal person, according to a sheriff’s office news release. The deputies located Bryant barricaded in the home and quickly evacuated nearby neighbors.

The standoff with Bryant in the Valor Drive home lasted throughout the night. A little after 5 a.m. Tuesday, Bryant exited the one-story, patio home "with a weapon engaging deputies," the release stated.

Bryant was shot and taken to New Hanover Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead, according to the release.

Detective Sean Dixon was identified by the sheriff's office as the shooter. Following standard protocol, the sheriff’s office has called in the N.C. State Bureau of Investigation to investigate the incident, as well as District Attorney Ben David.

"Detective S.M. Dixon is on paid administrative leave per Sheriff’s Office policy and protocol until the conclusion of the NC SBI’s investigation," the release stated. "Detective Dixon has over 8 years of law enforcement experience with 5 years experience on the Sheriff’s Office Emergency Response Team and is currently assigned to the Detective Division."

Dixon was among the officers who located a 6-year-old girl who had been kidnapped in 2016 while playing at her mobile home park. He led a police dog, Bane, and helped find the girl, who was chained to a tree. He comforted the girl and wrapped her in a blanket until other rescuers could free her from the tree.

In a 911 call released Tuesday, a woman identifying herself as Bryant's mother asks police to respond to Bryant's father's house. She tells the dispatcher she is not at the house.

"(The father) came home and found him pretty much passed out with his head in the toilet," the woman tells dispatchers. "He’s saying that he’s trying to kill himself, so I don’t know what he’s taken or what, but his dad asked me to call."

At one point the emergency dispatcher asks whether Bryant is violent, to which the woman responds, "he’s more so to himself."

The woman also told the dispatcher she was not aware of her son having a weapon. But according to an EMS report, emergency officials responding to the call described Bryant's behavior as "extremely violent, breaking stuff in house." The report also stated that there were multiple guns in the house, including a shotgun and a long rifle, and ammunition.

The report stated Bryant pointed the shotgun at emergency officials and warned them not to enter the house.

A day before Monday's incident Bryant had been involved in an altercation in the 5600 block of Market Street that prompted the Wilmington Police Department to take out two warrants against him, according to police spokeswoman Jennifer Dandron.

According to the warrants, Bryant Sunday evening allegedly punched a man in the face and swung a machete at other drivers before smashing it into the Wilmington man’s car doing more than $200. Dandron said Bryant was yelling at drivers and was in a car accident before he assaulted the Wilmington man.

She added that police were searching for Bryant, but he wasn’t at the Racine Drive address listed on the warrant. He was charged with misdemeanor assault and battery, misdemeanor going armed to the terror of the people, and leaving the scene of an accident. Bryant also was charged with damaging property.

Staff Writers Kevin Maurer and Cammie Bellamy contributed to this story.

Reporter Makenzie Holland can be reached at 910-343-2371 or Makenzie.Holland@StarNewsOnline.com.