36-year-old Michael Renfroe was shot and killed by a Madison Co. sheriff's deputy Friday night. Source: WLBT

Madison Co. sheriff says his deputy was acting in self-defense in Friday night's shooting that killed Michael Renfroe. Source: WLBT

Photograph of Michael Renfroe and his wife Amanda Renfroe. Source: WLBT

MADISON, MS (Mississippi News Now) - New developments have been made in the deadly deputy-involved shooting that in Madison County over the weekend.

Officials from the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation identified the victim as 36-year-old Michael Renfroe.

His wife Amanda Renfroe shared her side of the story, saying that her husband was unarmed and on the ground when he was shot three times.

Tonight, Madison County sheriff's have a different recall events.

RELATED: Wife: Husband unarmed when he was shot three times by Madison Co. Sheriff's deputy

Sheriff Randy Tucker is defending his deputy by saying the widow of Michael Renfroe is not telling the truth about what happened Friday night, and his deputy was acting in self-defense.

"No. He had nothing in his hands," said Amanda Renfroe. "His hands were on his sides and out walking."

Amanda said they were driving on Old Natchez Trace Road Friday night when her husband's staff stick fell out of the window and he stopped to get it...that's when she says a vehicle pulled up with no lights.

"He didn't know who it was, so he kept walking," Amanda said.

She claims this led to the deputy tasing him and when he tried to turnover on the ground, he was shot.

"It was a pow. Then it was a short pause, then a pow, pow. He had three bullet holes in him."

Sheriff Tucker says that story is false.

He says Michael Renfroe attacked his deputy and he was not shot on the ground.

Tucker says the department has video evidence to back his claim and once MBI completes their investigation, it could possibly be released.

According to Jackson police records, Renfroe had no prior criminal record.

While some folks agree deputies should defend themselves, others say they have become too "trigger happy."

"They never know what they are going to run up on," said a Madison resident. "From a domestic call of traffic stop."

"An officer is always going to defend an officer," another resident said.

Sheriff Tucker says this is a very tragic situation for both the deputy's family and the victim's family.

The deputy is still on the job and was offered time off after the shooting.

Copyright 2018 MSNewsNow. All rights reserved.