UPDATE (3/2/18 at 5:30 p.m.):

The Monongalia County Sheriff’s Department has released more information following a standoff that lead to the death of a 62-year-old man.

Deputies said Division of Natural Resources Police arrived on scene first and made contact with Randall Beymer. DNR police told deputies that Beymer made threatening gestures to them with the item in his hand that they perceived to be a weapon. When DNR police ordered Beymer to stop, he told them he would not stop and wanted a confrontation, deputies said.

When deputies arrived on scene, Beymer was seen taking a defensive position behind a tree, according to a press release. Deputies attempted to get Beymer to surrender and put down his weapon, but several times during the interaction, Beymer made remarks and movements threatening deputies indicating that he was armed and would not peacefully resolve the situation, deputies said.

Beymer lunged toward deputies from behind the tree extending and pointing the device that was in his hands, deputies said, presenting himself in a “combat-like stance.”

Deputies perceived that they were being confronted with a firearm and discharged their weapons, striking and killing Beymer, deputies said.

After the situation was under control, deputies were able to confirm that Beymer had a “paint can gun with a pistol-type grip, which was black in color with a trigger assembly that closely resembled a handgun.”

Five deputies are on paid, administrative leave while the incident is under investigation, according to a press release.

Beymer was under investigation by the sheriff’s office for a separate incident, but this was not the reason the officers were on scene that day, according to the release.

The investigation is continuing, deputies said.

ORIGINAL:

One man is dead after a standoff with the Monongalia County Sheriff’s Department.

It happened around 2:41 p.m. on Saturday in the Williams Road area of the county.

Officials say deputies responded to a call about a man walking with a handgun on the caller’s property.

A confrontation with the suspect ended with the deputies using deadly force.

That suspect was identified as Randall Beymer, 62, of Monongalia County.

The Monongalia County Sheriff’s Detective Unit is investigating the incident.

West Virginia Department of Natural Resources officers assisted.