PIKETON – An investigation into a June officer-involved shooting in Pike County concluded the shooting deaths of two men were the result of a murder-suicide.

However, deputies with the Franklin County SWAT unit had no idea the suspect – 44-year-old David B. Arthur – had already shot himself when they came across him in the Wynn Road home and opened fire. Much of the six-inch thick case file doesn’t even mention a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head likely fired two hours before deputies shot Arthur multiple times.

Roughly 30 minutes before shooting himself, investigators believe Arthur shot 56-year-old Barry W. Leeth in the head three times.

Despite the investigation’s determination that this was a murder-suicide and the deputies had reason to fire, Pike County Prosecutor Rob Junk said he presented the case to a grand jury on Sept. 27 as they have with other officer-involved shootings. The grand jury elected not to indict any of the deputies who fired shots that day.

More:Pike Co. officer-involved shooting investigated

The weather was warm and humid as five Pike County Sheriff’s deputies including a major and sergeant prepared to serve an arrest warrant on 44-year-old David B. Arthur for the Scioto County sheriff at about 12:30 p.m. on June 13.

While the warrants were for aggravated trafficking and possession of drugs and failure to comply, a detective mentioned he also was a person of interest in the disappearance and suspected murder of Kayla Eitel who has been missing from Portsmouth since Jan. 4, 2016. The report notes a Scioto County detective felt Arthur was involved, but she was still working on evidence and no charges had been filed.

They also had been told Arthur could be armed and may have a stolen vehicle up at his friend Barry Leeth’s home at 919 Wynn Road in Piketon, but they didn’t find it there. His criminal history included breaking and entering, burglary, and aggravated robbery.

When Sgt. Brock Clemmons and Major David Roosa knocked on the door, Leeth, wearing shorts, a t-shirt, and slippers, answered. Leeth had little prior encounters with law enforcement beyond a recent welfare check requested by his daughter. He ultimately let the deputies in as he went to find Arthur in a bedroom, reasoning if he didn’t they’d hang out until they could get a judge to approve “papers” and come in anyway.

At first, deputies reported Leeth said he was unsure if Arthur was in the home still and started to look. He ultimately went into a bedroom where they heard Arthur yell – “Look out” – and the door closed. After hearing what sounded like a gun being loaded and racked, they retreated and called out to Arthur.

“He never responded … So Major Roosa and I talked, very briefly, and I was like, ‘Look, he’s, if, if that’s what we thought we heard, he’s settin there waitin on us,” Clemmons said, according to a transcript of his interview.

They retreated outside to set up a perimeter and take cover. Initially, Leeth followed them back outside, sat on the porch, and began rolling a cigarette. He alleged Arthur needed time to get dressed and put on his prosthetic leg. When Leeth’s cigarette broke, he stood to go back inside and deputies offered him a cigarette to keep him outside. However, Leeth went back in and it was the last time deputies saw him alive.

Toxicology results would show methamphetamine intoxication for both Leeth and Arthur at the time of their deaths.

They waited a bit, and when no one came out, deputies repeatedly used a loudspeaker to instruct the men to come outside. Instead, someone slammed the front door.

At one point, Arthur slid open a window and asked what the deputies wanted. He informed them it was “a misdemeanor warrant, I ain't-a coming out,” Roosa told investigators. Arthur then slammed the window and Roosa said he heard a “pop pop pop.”

“It sounded like he was tapping like letting me know that hey I’ve got a gun in here,” Roosa said.

A deputy stationed at the back of the home where a sliding door was open reported hearing shots fired, though. There’s no definite conclusion in the report as to whether he rapped on the window and/or fired at that point. Roosa said they started hearing furniture being moved around, the back door was slid closed, and coverings were placed over the windows.

The deputies backed away and established a perimeter, Pike County Sheriff Charlie Reader called for the Franklin County SWAT team, and a couple of deputies went to Judge Paul Price to secure a search warrant for the Wynn Road home.

The SWAT team was dispatched at 1:15 p.m. – roughly 45 minutes after deputies left to arrest Arthur – and arrived at about 3 p.m. with two BearCat armored vehicles and a truck with equipment.

The Pike County sheriff’s deputies then fell back even further and peered through trees to watch the “chess match,” as Clemmons described it. One of the deputies had been taking cover behind a junked pickup truck north of the house and was picked up by one of the BearCat teams. A Franklin County deputy set up in the spot as a sniper.

The Franklin County negotiator said he tried to make phone calls to the home and Arthur, but the poor cellphone reception led to calls being dropped “fairly quickly.” Neighbors told investigators they heard deputies make repeated requests for the men inside to come out, that they didn’t want anyone hurt.

By 3:49 p.m., the SWAT team opted to launch a gas canister through a bedroom window. Within a minute, they came under fire, and at least one bullet struck a BearCat windshield. Deputy Dustin Randall fired his 9mm pistol for the first time that day, aiming toward a window where he believed the shots had been fired. Three other deputies also shot at the home, all of them reporting they fired about 14 times combined.

“I could not see the shooter, but I saw the glass breaking and the holes from the shots being fired through the window at us,” Randall said in his written statement. “I could hear the projectiles whizzing past my head.”

“Based on how quickly the rounds were, the gunshots were coming from inside, it seemed to me that he fired out at us, fired three or four rounds, I’m not sure, and then immediately ran to the back and started firing towards the backside and then it appeared that he was running toward the left side of the house, running across the house just shooting randomly because we would see um, see the rounds coming out of just randomly through the siding in that direction,” Sgt. Brandon Walls said according to an interview transcript.

Lt. Michael Raven told investigators they would have held off on deploying gas if they believed Leeth was being held hostage. However, they felt he wasn’t a hostage because he’d been outside and went back in on his own.

“He had multiple opportunities to come out with them, refused, so that’s what drove our decision, knowing the fact that Pike County had been trying to negotiate for over, well over, two hours with him to come out, and we had been trying to get him to come out for over an hour,” Raven said.

About eight minutes after shots were fired, the team used a hydraulic ram attached to one of the BearCats to begin tearing holes in the house.

“The holes were intended to be able to see inside the house because we couldn’t see anything that was going on inside the house and we still never saw the suspects.” Walls said.

A timeline shows they spent about two hours – roughly from 4 to 6 p.m. – using the ram and deploying more gas into the home. One deputy estimated they punched the house with the ram at least 20 times and a BCI agent’s report noted the doublewide had been pushed from its foundation and live power lines were down around the home.

Twice they paused efforts when they heard shots fired inside the house – three shots at 4:11 p.m., assumed later to have been when Leeth was killed, and a single shot at 4:40 p.m., possibly when Arthur shot himself.

By 6 p.m., the SWAT team hadn’t seen any movement in the home even with the aid of a recon robot so they prepared to enter.

Deputies Dustin Randall, Joeseph Satterfield, Jason Meade, and Tim Longshore with his K9 Turbo were among the first to enter through a wall torn away, fully exposing a back bedroom with a closed interior door. After trying to get Turbo to check ahead, he went back outside, possibly due to the gas still in the home, and Longshore went with him.

The others cautiously went through the door, wielding protective shields and covering each other. As they entered the hallway at 6:38 p.m. Satterfield announced he saw feet sticking out. Deputy Michael Meade initially was too far back to see the feet but advised them to “push forward” after being told the feet were not moving.

They turned out of the room to find Arthur sitting in a nook on the floor, his back against the wall, legs outstretched immediately to their left. Satterfield told investigators Arthur had a rifle on his lap and a black semi-automatic pistol in his hand in a “high ready” position by his ear, the barrel toward the ceiling, his finger on the trigger.

“He had a small blood smear on his face but otherwise did not appear to be shot or injured,” Satterfield said in a written statement. “I yelled, ‘drop the gun,’ three times while pointing my rifle at him. Suddenly, the suspect leveled the pistol and pointed it at me. I believed he was about to shoot and kill me, and it is then that I began firing my rifle at him … I stopped firing when the suspect went limp, lowered the pistol and stopped moving. He still had his right index finger clasped around the trigger of the pistol, but he appeared to be dead, and his eyes were closed. I could see blood pumping out from his chest where I believe my rounds had struck him.”

Meade, who also had fired at Arthur, crouched down and reached for Arthur’s pistol, his finger still curled around the trigger, according to the deputies’ statements.

“He appeared to me to be dead … All of a sudden, the suspect gasped for air, opened his eyes, and instantly leveled his pistol and pointed it directly at Deputy Meade,” Randall said in his written statement.

Randall fired for the second time that day, three shots in “rapid succession.” Startled, Meade leaned back and fired his rifle three times as well.

“When I stopped firing, the suspect appeared to be dead, with gunshot wounds to the head and chest area,” Randall said in his written statement.

Deputies came up empty after an initial sweep of the home, having missed spotting Leeth’s body amidst the ruble in the living room. The body was located during a second look beneath a blanket in between the couch and coffee table.

He appeared to have close contact gunshot wounds to the head which the autopsy confirmed. Ballistics and DNA testing confirmed a bullet recovered with Leeth’s DNA matched Arthur’s 9mm Taurus pistol. A SWAT team medic described Leeth as cold to the touch, his skin mottled, both signs he’d been dead a while. Investigators believe the three shots fired inside the home at 4:11 p.m. were the ones to kill Leeth, meaning he’d have been laying there for nearly three hours.

Satterfield was the only one of the deputies to report seeing any sign Arthur may have been injured prior to firing their guns. It wasn’t until the autopsy when they learned one of the shots was “intraoral” with an upward trajectory indicating it was self-inflicted. The last shot recorded heard inside the home was two hours before deputies encountered Arthur.

“We talked to the coroner about that,” Pike County Prosecutor Rob Junk said. “It may not have been immediately fatal, and his muscles may have been twitching … He was able to move enough to give the SWAT team the impression he was bringing a gun to bear. It’s not like TV and the movies where people expire immediately. It sometimes takes a while.”

The autopsy, conducted by the Montgomery County Coroner’s Office, outlines the damage from the shot as well as the six shots to his face and neck and three to his chest. The self-inflicted gunshot caused “extensive laceration of the brain,” presumably enough that he would have eventually died. The deputies’ shots to Arthur’s face and neck broke an eye socket, his jaw, and caused “severe soft tissue disruption.” The shots to the chest broke ribs, struck a lung, and caused severe hemorrhaging.

Since the ammunition used was fractal – meaning it broke apart at impact – it was impossible to determine which rifle had fired the shots. Randall, though, had used his 9mm pistol, and tests confirmed one bullet collected came from his gun and had Arthur’s DNA on it, indicating it had passed through him.

None of the deputies were injured that day, but the combination of the heat and their heavy gear left some dehydrated with at least two deputies needing fluids replenished via IV.

The report indicates those who fired were kept separated and everyone was directed to leave weapons and the scene undisturbed. The crime scene wasn’t processed by state agents until the following morning due to the unsafe conditions of the property and their arrival well after dark had fallen.

At least five Franklin County sheriff's detectives worked the investigation into the shooting. The case synopsis concluded: “Under the circumstances, the involved deputies acted appropriately to stop the threat posed by David Arthur. There was no evidence to indicate that Barry Leeth was shot by any of the involved deputies. It is evident that the involved officers had no other reasonable alternative to protect their lives from the threat of serious physical harm or death caused by David Arthur’s actions.”