Shreveport Times

The Bossier Sheriff’s Office has released more details about the officer-involved shooting that resulted in the death of a Haughton man on Friday, May 11.

According to a release from the sheriff’s office, police initially received a call at 2:45 p.m. Friday from a Haughton woman who said she had been beaten by her son and that he had taken her car without her permission.

“The mother reported that her 33-year-old son, Benjamin Lee Sellers, who lives at her residence on the 300 block of James Lane in Haughton, got into an argument with her while demanding she give him the keys to her car,” police allege in the release. “When she refused, he hit her in the head multiple times and smashed her with a glass vase, leaving her with bruises and cuts to her face and left arm. He then took off with the vehicle.”

Deputies arrived on the scene and called medics to tend to the mother’s injuries, the release states. She was able to get to another safe location.

More:Bossier deputy on leave after shooting

Deputies then issued a BOLO — Be On the Lookout — for the vehicle and talked to neighbors about the incident, the release states.

Around 8:50 p.m. Friday, the sheriff’s office received a report that Sellers had returned to the residence, the release states.

Patrol deputy Lt. Josh Cathcart and another deputy arrived at the residence a few minutes later. Cathcart approached the front door, while the other deputy went around to the rear of the trailer home, according to police.

Through the open main door, Cathcart could see that Sellers was standing inside, police said. Sellers, who police say was standing at a bar cleaning fish, confirmed his identity to the deputy.

Police allege that as Cathcart approached Sellers to take him into custody, “Sellers picked up a knife, holding it in a stabbing position and advanced toward Lt. Cathcart, who repeatedly ordered him to drop the knife as he backed up.”

Police allege that Sellers continued towards Cathcart with the knife. Cathcart fired three shots, striking Sellers in the chest.

Deputies on the scene began administering lifesaving measures to Sellers until emergency medical services arrived shortly after 9 p.m., the release states. Sellers was pronounced dead at the scene by the Bossier Parish Coroner.

“No deputy ever wants to be put in a situation in which he or she has to use deadly force, but when faced with an imminent deadly threat, we will take action,” Bossier Sheriff Julian Whittington stated in the news release. “We are saddened that this mother had to deal with the loss of her son on Mother’s Day weekend, but glad that Lt. Cathcart was able to go home safely to his family.”

The case remains under investigation and will be referred to the Bossier/Webster District Attorney’s Office for further review.

Per Bossier Sheriff’s Office policy, Cathcart remained on paid administrative leave as of Monday evening.