Bodycam video of the moment a police officer fired six shots in two seconds in a crowded parking lot, killing a suspected armed robber, has been released.

Officer Jonathan O'Guin is seen chasing suspect Richard Rivera, 47, in his car before the two both arrive at the Smith's grocery store.

He is seen chasing the suspect and yelling out for him to stop, before he issues a final warning: 'stop or you're gonna get shot'.

Seconds later, with both parties still running, O'Guin fires rapidly into the man's back.

Witnesses say they heard Rivera yell out he had a gun on him, but police told reporters on Thursday he did not have a weapon with him when he was shot, The Albuquerque Journal reported.

Richard Rivera (pictured) was shot dead by Albuquerque police officer Jonathan O'Guin earlier this month after allegedly robbing multiple banks and a Verizon store over the course of about a week

Rivera and alleged accomplice Jennifer Rael had allegedly spent nearly a week before the fatal shooting committing robberies.

The pair, who had only known each other about six weeks, allegedly had a hand in robbing two Albuquerque banks, a gas station and a Verizon store.

Police finally caught up to Rivera following the robbery of the Verizon store, where he allegedly took phones, money and jewelry from the shop and its customers, who he had allegedly held at gunpoint.

During a car chase that preceded the shooting, police say the suspected burglar repeatedly shot at police, reloading his weapon at least once.

Rivera's mother, Dolores, said she had spoken to him just days before his death and was still trying to reconcile her opinion of her son with his alleged crimes

'The fact Mr Rivera had continuously been firing rounds at officers during a vehicle pursuit, had robbed not only Verizon Wireless employees but patrons of the Verizon Wireless at gunpoint, coupled with the fact that he was running through the parking lot of the Smith's yelling that he has a gun...' Lieutenant. Ray Del Greco told reporters on Thursday.

'It led officer O'Guin to believe that the potential harm to innocent civilians in that Smith's grocery store was so great the need to utilize the force he did there was what was needed at the time.'

Rivera was pronounced dead at a hospital, and Rael, his alleged accomplice, has been charged with bank robbery, use of a firearm in commission of a violent crime and aiding and abetting.

The man's mother, Dolores Rivera, told the Albuquerque Journal she wasn't aware of Rivera's alleged criminal acts, and they had spoken just days before he was killed.

'It's hard because you are trying to grieve, but it's hard to grieve with all this ugliness that's going on,' she said.