HEBRON - Dash camera footage of a police pursuit from Dec. 29 in Hebron shows a man who died a short time later refusing to get out of his crashed vehicle and running away from officers.

Terrance Balo, 43, of Hebron, died Dec. 29 at Licking Memorial Hospital of undetermined causes.

The Advocate requested dash camera video footage from the cruisers of Licking County Sheriff's Office deputies involved in the pursuit, which was initiated by Hebron Police.

An officer at the Hebron Police Department said the department's cruisers do not have dash cameras.

The footage from the sheriff's office cruisers shows deputies responding to assist Hebron Police around 6:17 a.m. Dec. 29.

Balo's vehicle, a pick-up truck, turns onto South High Street from U.S. 40 and is weaving between lanes.

A Hebron Police vehicle moves around Balo's truck and is in front of him. Balo's truck attempts to go around the Hebron cruiser on the wrong side of the road, with the police cruiser moving in front of the truck again.

During a second attempt to pass the cruiser, Balo attempts to go around the cruiser and strikes the front of it, followed by the Hebron cruiser striking Balo's vehicle. The collisions sent Balo's truck into a spin.

The truck comes to rest on top of a gas line in front of a home on the 300 block of South High Street and the deputy closest to the scene asks dispatchers to send fire crews to check for a gas leak.

A Hebron Police officer and sheriff's deputy both approach the vehicle, with the deputy on the driver's side.

The video shows the deputy opening Balo's driver's side door and attempting to remove Balo from the vehicle.

Balo is actively resisting the officers in the video and the deputy can be seen bracing his foot on the truck while attempting to pull Balo out.

After Balo is removed from the vehicle, he appears to strike the deputy's arm, pulling away and running in the direction of the street.

A few seconds later, the officers can be heard through radio traffic to have used a Taser.

Scanner traffic a few minutes later from officers on the scene said they were located in a field across the street and several houses down from where the vehicle had crashed.

At 6:25 a.m., officers requested a squad for Balo. About 90 seconds later, radio traffic indicates Balo is no longer breathing and officers were performing CPR as they waited for a squad to arrive.

Balo was taken to Licking Memorial Hospital, where he died.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation is investigating the incident. Hebron Police have not commented as to what led police to begin the pursuit.

According to his obituary, Balo is survived by three children, his parents and six siblings, as well as extended family.