The GBI is investigating a deadly shooting in Forsyth County involving a sheriff’s deputy, the third investigation of its kind the agency opened over the span of six hours Tuesday.

FCSO is on scene of an Officer Involved Shooting on Carbonne Court in southwest Forsyth County. Sheriff Ron Freeman has requested the GBI to investigate. The initial call was a domestic dispute at a residence. — ForsythCountySO (@ForsythCountySO) June 20, 2018

A man was fatally shot by a sheriff’s deputy inside his home on Carbonne Court near Cumming, GBI spokeswoman Nelly Miles said in a news release Wednesday. Three sheriff’s deputies had responded to a reported domestic disturbance between the man and his wife. The GBI identified the man as Charles Spillers, 65, of Cumming. The wife’s name was not released.

Someone in the home called 911 around 10 p.m., then hung up, spokesman Doug Rainwater told Channel 2 Action News. A dispatcher called back and the woman answered, prompting the deputies to respond to the home. The woman was speaking with the deputies in her kitchen when Spillers allegedly displayed a gun.

“An officer fired at Spillers, striking him multiple times,” Miles said. “As a result of his injuries, he died at the scene.”

An autopsy will be performed by the GBI, Miles said.

According to Channel 2, Spillers is an attorney and was arrested in 2009 on two counts of obstruction of officers and two counts of battery in a domestic violence incident.

The previous mugshot of the Forsyth man shot and killed by a deputy. The story at 5:15. @wsbtv pic.twitter.com/SJYofuMtlk — Dave Huddleston (@DaveHWSB) June 20, 2018

The shooting occurred just hours after two others involving a Georgia police officer or sheriff’s deputy.

RELATED:

Man killed after home invasion, shootout with DeKalb police

Explore Atlanta police officer shoots driver after stolen vehicle barrels toward him

Tuesday’s incidents raised the number of officer-involved shooting investigations in Georgia this year from 44 to 47.

OVER THE LINE: Police shootings in Georgia

INTERACTIVE MAP: Georgia's officer-involved shootings under GBI investigation

There were 97 such investigations in 2017.

In other news: