This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

ST. LOUIS, MO — A murder suspect killed himself in north St. Louis Tuesday morning as the US Marshals Service closed in on him.

Jim Tapp, a supervisor with the US Marshals Service out of St. Louis, identified the suspect as 44-year-old Christopher Logan from Mississippi.

Tapp said Logan was wanted on charges of murder, felony child abuse, and being a felon in possession of a firearm. All of the charges were in connection with a recent incident in Webb, Mississippi. Logan was accused of shooting a woman 11 times and killing her.

US Marshals went to try and arrest Logan around 7 a.m. at a home on Greer near Vandeventer and Prairie in north city. The Marshals Service had apparently developed information that Logan was at the home.

Tapp said Logan had relatives in St. Louis and was hiding out at the home with either friends or family.

As Marshals approached the home, another person opened the door voluntarily. That’s when a gunshot went off inside the home.

The Marshals retreated, the person who answered the door went with authorities, and the St. Louis City Police SWAT team was called in.

The home where this happened had an upstairs and downstairs apartment. The suspect was hiding in the downstairs unit; authorities evacuated the upstairs apartment after the gunshot.

Just before 10 a.m., the SWAT team finally went into the home and found Logan dead of what authorities believe was a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Tapp said Logan had an extensive criminal history and had said he did not want to go back to prison.

Nobody else was hurt during the incident. No law officers fired shots during the episode.

BREAKING: U.S. Marshals Service officially identifies the man who killed himself this morning as they went to arrest him at NStl home as 44 year old Christopher Logan from Mississippi. Marshals Service says Logan was wanted on charges of murder, felony child abuse and being…(1) — Chris Regnier (@chrisregniertv) June 19, 2018

UPDATE: St. Louis City Police Dept. SWAT team finds body of Mississippi murder suspect inside home on Greeer in north St. Louis. Authorities say the suspect shot and killed himself. SWAT was called in this morning after U.S. Marshals tried to arrest the man in connection…(1) pic.twitter.com/DaWG4plGn8 — Chris Regnier (@chrisregniertv) June 19, 2018

#SWAT on scene in 3800 Blk Greer after US marshals attempted an arrest. Witness says one shot fired. One in custody. Apparently somebody else is apparently not giving up. @kmoxnews pic.twitter.com/ltPYcpfhz1 — Brian Kelly (@Brpkelly) June 19, 2018

38.658791 -90.22337