PARMA, Ohio -- The Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner has identified the man killed Wednesday in a shootout with Parma and Parma Heights police officers.

Jonathan Legg, 29, of Parma Heights, was fatally shot about 5:30 p.m. following a traffic stop by a Parma police officer and Parma Heights detective, the medical examiner said.

He was taken to University Hospitals Parma Medical Center, where he died, officials said.

A Parma Heights detective was also shot in the knee and thigh during the shootout. The detective's condition was not immediately known.

Legg exchanged gunfire with a police officer and the detective following a random traffic stop near the intersection of Stumph and Huffman roads in Parma, police said.

The detective stopped to help the officer when he heard the traffic stop, police said.

An officer stopped the car Legg was driving because a license plate check showed the license plate on the Chevrolet Impala did not belong to that car, police said.

The officer asked Legg to get out of the car. As he got out of the car, the detective noticed a black handgun and two magazines sticking out of the Legg's waistband, officials said.

The officer tried to wrap his arms around Legg but was unsuccessful. Legg fired one shot and hit the detective in the knee and thigh area, police said.

The detective and the officer both returned fire, striking the man. It's unknown how many bullets struck the man or which officer fired the fatal shot, police said.

Legg did not have a permit to carry a concealed weapon, authorities said.

Officials said the Parma officer has been with the force for six years. The detective has been with Parma Heights police for four years. But Parma and Parma Heights police did not identify either officer involved in the shooting by name.

It's unclear whether the officers will be on restricted duty as the shooting is investigated, which is standard policy for many area police departments in officer-involved shootings.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation is investigating the shooting.

To comment on this story, visit Thursday's crime and courts comments page.