From Capt. Don Mayes - Williamsport Bureau of Police

Williamsport Bureau of Police (WBP) Incident #18-05950

On Monday, June 25th 2018, at approximately 0959 hrs, Lycoming County Communications Center (LCCC) dispatched WBP officers to 645 Grier St. for a "man with a gun." WBP officer(s) responded to the scene where at least two gunshots were heard coming from what appeared to be inside the residence of 645 Grier St.

Pursuant to the gunshots, WBP police officers encountered two adult females, one carrying an infant child, exit from the front entrance of 645 Grier St. The adult females were identified as Deborah Berryhill and Markita Sanders. Sanders was the one carrying the child and had an apparent gunshot wound to the lower left leg.

According to both Berryhill and Sanders, Johnny Hemingway was in the house with a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head area. Sanders reported to police that it was Hemingway who shot her in the leg. Sanders further stated that her, Berryhill and Hemingway were all present in the kitchen on the first floor of 645 Grier St. when Hemingway fired a gun and struck her in the leg then turned the gun on himself and shot himself in the head.

Berryhill stated that she heard Sanders and Hemingway arguing from her upstairs apartment. When Berryhill came downstairs she encountered both Sanders and Hemingway arguing in the kitchen. According to Berryhill, Hemingway ran to the basement and retrieved a gun before returning to the kitchen with a revolver in his hand. Hemingway apparently fired a gun and struck her in the leg then turned the gun on himself and shot himself in the head. Berryhill said that Hemingway had been smoking PCP prior to the incident.

WBP officers established a perimeter around the 645 Grier St. residence. An attempt to make contact with Hemingway in the house proved unsuccessful. The WBP Special Response Team (SRT) was activated and later arrived on scene. Entry was made by SRT in the residence where team members did encounter Hemingway lying unresponsive on the kitchen floor.

SRT relinquished the scene to WBP Agents. Agents called paramedics to the scene who confirmed Hemingway was deceased.

The scene was processed by the WBP forensics team. Once the scene was processed, Agents called for the Lycoming County Coroner. Representatives from the coroner's office arrived on scene and took custody of the body. The investigation is ongoing.

Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Get Our Free Newsletters Never miss a headline with NorthcentralPa.com newsletters. Sign Up Today! Morning Headlines: Would you like to receive our daily morning newsletter? Afternoon Update: What's happening today? Here's your update! Daily Obits: Get a daily list straight to your email inbox.