An employee at Anniston's Lowe's Home Improvement walked into the store this morning, barricaded himself in his office and shot himself after police spent several hours trying to talk him into giving up a firearm.

Anniston Police Chief Shane Denham said Steven Spoon was due to be terminated from his job today at the store on McClellan Boulevard.

An employee at Anniston's Lowe's shot himself in the store Monday, June 25, 2018.

The incident began about 9:15 a.m., when Anniston police received a call of a possible active shooter at the business. Lowe's engaged its active shooter protocol, he said, evacuating employees and customers as law enforcement converged on the scene.

No one was injured, but it was unclear if Spoon fired his weapon, a handgun, when he entered the store.

"At that point, he was no longer a threat to anyone except himself," Denham said. "I think he was going to get fired."

Denham said Spoon went into the office, which was in the front part of the store. Employees and customers were escorted across Alabama 21 to Anniston Middle School, where they waited for a resolution.

Negotiators began talking to Spoon through the office door, and then moved the conversation to a phone. Denham said Spoon "was talking about injuring himself" but negotiators thought they had established some rapport with him.

About 12:15 p.m., while a negotiator spoke to Spoon over the phone, he heard a single gunshot. Spoon was pronounced dead at the scene. His wife was at the store, Denham said.

"It's absolutely how we did not want this to end," Denham said.

The incident drew a heavy law enforcement presence, including Alabama State Troopers, ambulance, fire and tactical team to the store. Crime investigators are currently processing the area.

Spoon, according to his LinkedIn profile, worked for Jacksonville Fire for more than 25 years before retiring as assistant fire chief. He was listed as human resources director for the store.

In a corporate statement, Lowe's said it would have counselors for employees.

Here are warning signs to watch for if you fear someone is suicidal and resources that can help those thinking of harming themselves or who fear a loved one might harm themself.

WARNING SIGNS

Threatening to hurt or kill oneself or talking about wanting to hurt or kill oneself.

Looking for ways to kill oneself by seeking access to firearms, available pills, or other means.

Talking or writing about death, dying, ''ending the pain'' or suicide.

Feeling hopeless.

Acting reckless or engaging in risky activities - seemingly without thinking.

Feeling trapped - like there's no way out.

Increasing alcohol or drug use.

Withdrawing from friends, family, social support and society.

Feeling anxious, agitated, or unable to sleep or sleeping all the time.

Experiencing significant mood changes.

Seeing no reason for living or having no sense of purpose in life.

Feeling rage or uncontrolled anger or seeking revenge.

HOW TO HELP

Ask the person directly if he or she is having suicidal thoughts, has a plan to do so, and has access to lethal means.

If you think the person might harm him- or herself, do not leave the person alone.

Take seriously all suicide threats and all past suicide attempts, even if he or she minimizes your concerns.?

Be direct. Talk openly and matter-of-factly about suicide.

Be willing to listen and be non-judgmental. Don't debate whether suicide is right or wrong, or whether feelings are good or bad. Don't lecture on the value of life or whether suicide is viewed by some as a sinful, selfish or angry act. Respect that suicidal feelings are most likely related to ending emotional or psychological pain.

Get involved. Become available. Show interest and support. Take into account other trusted friends, family members or allies who can be a part of a supportive team.

Don't dare him or her to do it.

Don't act shocked. This may translate as criticism or judgment and weaken trust between you.

Don't be sworn to secrecy. Acknowledge that all suicidal risk is to be taken seriously and firmly and gently explain that you are seeking support.

Offer hope that alternatives are available but do not offer glib reassurance.

Take action. Remove means, such as guns or stockpiled pills.

Get help from persons or agencies specializing in crisis intervention and suicide prevention.

Resources in Alabama

Alabama Suicide Prevention and Resource Coalition

Crisis Center, Inc. (Birmingham)

Crisis Services of North Alabama (Huntsville)

Lifelines/Family Counseling Center of Mobile

Sources: The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and The Alabama Suicide Prevention and Resource Coalition