The Limestone County Sheriff's Office has identified the three people killed in a weekend shooting in Limestone County near Ardmore.

The Limestone County Sheriff’s Office has identified the three people killed in a weekend shooting in Limestone County near Ardmore.

The three victims in the shooting are Debra Ann Rivera, 41 (suspect’s ex-wife), Radex Rivera, 41 (Debra’s new husband), and Timothy James Hayward-Boger (a roommate of the other two victims).

Shooting suspect Darwin Brazier, 43, was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound about 50 yards from his residence on Cook Road in Madison County.

Stephen Young, Public Information Office for the Limestone County Sheriff’s Office, said, “It was pretty clear from history with these two there were a history of criminal complaints, there was a history of civil complaints, there were a history of court cases. It’s not a complete picture, but there were some flags, there were some things that it could be a dangerous situation. At this point, we aren’t sure what the catalyst could be for this specific incident but it was clear that it obviously reached a breaking point and once the decision was made by offender he was going to follow through.”

Around 1:44 PM Sunday, Limestone County deputies responded to a call at 27774 Pinedale Road near Ardmore.

The Limestone County Sheriff’s Office says that the female caller advised dispatchers she had received a text from Brazier saying he had just killed his ex-wife, her husband, and a man named Tim and he was going to kill himself.

Deputies say they found the bodies of the victims on the back porch of the residence. Multiple spent shell casings from 7.62×39 rifle rounds were located around the area of the carport. Current evidence indicates Brazier fired 30 rounds from an SKS rifle with a high-capacity magazine.

The search for Brazier continued for several hours and included multiple locations in Limestone and Madison Counties. Madison County Sheriff’s Office assisted with K-9 units, the Madison County SWAT team, and other resources.



—–

UPDATE 8:27 p.m.: The Sheriff’s Office confirms the suspect, Darwin Brazier has been found dead. We’re told he died of a “self-inflicted gunshot wound”.

UPDATE: #ArdmoreShootings suspect Darwin Brazier is dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound near his residence at Cook Rd in Madison County.— Limestone Sheriff (@LimestoneCoSO) July 2, 2018

UPDATE: The truck has been located and the suspect was not at the location. Investigators say the suspect is the ex-husband of one of the victims. Deputies are still looking for Darwin Brazier.

Shooting suspect Darwin Brazier, 43, is possibly armed and likely dangerous. Use caution and do not approach if you see him. Call LCSO at 256-232-0111. pic.twitter.com/pONnB53GFc— Limestone Sheriff (@LimestoneCoSO) July 1, 2018

ORIGINAL STORY:

LIMESTONE COUNTY, Ala. (WZDX)- Three people were found dead in Limestone County Sunday. They were found in the 27000 block of Pinedale Road according to the Limestone County Sheriff’s Office. The sheriff’s office tweeted about the incident just after 1:00.

Three bodies were found this afternoon at a residence in the 27000 block of Pinedale Road. Media staging will be at the blue canopy about 100 feet from the road.— Limestone Sheriff (@LimestoneCoSO) July 1, 2018

Deputies are looking for Darwin Brazier. They called him a suspect in another tweet. He may be in a 1997 Ford F-250. The truck is “red-over-silver” according to the Tweet. Investigators believe he may be in Madison County.

UPDATE: Investigators are looking for a red-over-silver 1997 Ford F-250 occupies by suspect Darwin Brazier, believed to be possibly in Madison County.— Limestone Sheriff (@LimestoneCoSO) July 1, 2018