Radio traffic gives clues on how Cincinnati man died during traffic stop

A man died Tuesday while being arrested in Covington, Kentucky, officials said Tuesday.It happened early near the intersection of 43rd and Winston avenues, police said, one block from the Kroger store. Kentucky State Police has identified the dead man as Robert Ennis, 29, of Cincinnati. The incident began when Covington police made a traffic stop, officials said.Lt. Charles Loudermilk, with Kentucky State Police, said that Ennis died while being arrested by an officer with the Covington Police Department.Investigators have released few details about what led to the death, but WLWT has obtained police radio traffic of the incident from Broadcastify that sheds light on what might have happened."Traffic stop at Kroger," an officer is heard saying in a calm voice as the incident began just before 3 a.m.Then an officer is hear screaming, "Spit it out. Spit it out."At the same time, another officer tells dispatchers,"Respond to a tasing, I just tased somebody."An officer is heard calling for an ambulance and describing what he said happened."He shoved a bunch of white powder in his mouth and he’s choking on it," the officer said.Loudermilk emphasized that officers did not fire a weapon during the incident.Ennis has a history of run-ins with police over the years including burglary, aggravated menacing, robbery and trafficking in heroin earlier this year.State police said investigators are currently reviewing body camera footage to determine what happened. The investigation is in the preliminary stages, officials said.The autopsy on Ennis is expected to be completed Wednesday. Investigators are hoping to learn the cause of death then.

A man died Tuesday while being arrested in Covington, Kentucky, officials said Tuesday.

It happened early near the intersection of 43rd and Winston avenues, police said, one block from the Kroger store.

Advertisement

Kentucky State Police has identified the dead man as Robert Ennis, 29, of Cincinnati.

The incident began when Covington police made a traffic stop, officials said.

Lt. Charles Loudermilk, with Kentucky State Police, said that Ennis died while being arrested by an officer with the Covington Police Department.

Investigators have released few details about what led to the death, but WLWT has obtained police radio traffic of the incident from Broadcastify that sheds light on what might have happened.

"Traffic stop at Kroger," an officer is heard saying in a calm voice as the incident began just before 3 a.m.

Then an officer is hear screaming, "Spit it out. Spit it out."

At the same time, another officer tells dispatchers,"Respond to a tasing, I just tased somebody."

An officer is heard calling for an ambulance and describing what he said happened.

"He shoved a bunch of white powder in his mouth and he’s choking on it," the officer said.

Loudermilk emphasized that officers did not fire a weapon during the incident.

Ennis has a history of run-ins with police over the years including burglary, aggravated menacing, robbery and trafficking in heroin earlier this year.



State police said investigators are currently reviewing body camera footage to determine what happened. The investigation is in the preliminary stages, officials said.



The autopsy on Ennis is expected to be completed Wednesday. Investigators are hoping to learn the cause of death then.