Archived Story

Friday, April 11, 2003

Deputy shoots, kills suspected bank robber in Victorville

By MARC SCHANZ, EMILY BERG and DAVID SCHWARTZ/Staff Writers

VICTORVILLE -- A man suspected of robbing an Apple Valley bank was shot and killed by a sheriff's deputy outside the Target department store in Victorville late Thursday afternoon as stunned shoppers looked on.

Following a pursuit that wound its way through traffic on Seventh Street, San Bernardino County Sheriff's deputies and California Highway Patrol officers cornered three suspects at the store off Palmdale Road. They shot one suspect in the head at close range and chased another suspect, believe to be under the influence of narcotics, onto the store's roof, investigators said.

A third suspect, a female believed to be the getaway driver, surrendered without a struggle.

The incident began shortly after 4 p.m. in Apple Valley with a takeover robbery at the Downey Savings & Loan Association inside the Albertson's supermarket at the northeast corner of Highway 18 and Rancherias Road.

The two men wearing what witnesses described as black nylon stockings on their heads jumped over the counter and demanded cash from the bank tellers, according to Detective Mike Guiffredo.

As the suspects escaped, witnesses reported seeing the white car crash into a wall at the Wal-Mart nearby, where they abandoned the vehicle and got into a nearby Ford minivan then sped off toward Victorville on Highway 18.

At 4:18 p.m. Deputy Jeff Monroe spotted the minivan driving down Seventh Street at Forrest Avenue, according to Deputy Osvaldo Pelayes. Moments later, Deputy Richard Bise attempted to stop the vehicle, but the driver of the minivan sped off.

The minivan stopped just in front of the entrance to the Target store on Palmdale Road and as one suspect leaped out of the car and attempted to run, a sheriff's deputy shot him, said Sgt. Rick Roelle.

"The deputy warned him several times, but he didn't stop," Roelle said.

Roelle declined to identify the deputy.

The other suspect fled into the store.

"He then reportedly scaled the chain fence in the garden center, climbing through an opening to get onto the roof," Roelle said.

Deputies from Hesperia, Adelanto and Victorville and a Sheriff's helicopter arrived on scene shortly afterward, setting up a perimeter as deputies went up to the roof to bring down the suspect, Lucia said.

Return to Desert Dispatch