Officials say a man was shot by an officer in north Phoenix Saturday morning after witnesses reportedly saw him walking around a neighborhood with a gun and pointing it at people.

Police say 48-year-old Ronald Barney later died of his injuries at the hospital.

The incident Saturday marks the 45th officer-involved shooting in the Valley and 27th in Phoenix alone.

BREAKING: I’m heading to an officer-involved shooting in #Phoenix. There seems to be 2 scenes connected to this. One near 7th Ave & Dunlap. A second scene is near 43rd Ave & Olive. No officers hurt; one suspect is down, per @phoenixpolice — Megan Thompson (@MeganABC15) June 16, 2018

Officers first responded to the area of 7th and Dunlap avenues around 8:30 a.m. after receiving reports of a man walking around a neighborhood with a gun and pointing it at people.

When officers arrived at the scene they found Barney, who matched the description of the suspect, a police spokeswoman said. As officers approached him, he got into a black vehicle and fled the area.

Officers found Barney in the area of 35th and Dunlap avenues, where he exited his vehicle and pointed a handgun at the officers. One of the officers then shot the suspect.

No officers were injured during the incident.

This is the fourth officer-involved shooting in the Valley this week.

On Sunday, Phoenix officers exchanged gunfire with two armed robbery suspects following an hours-long standoff at a home near 19th Avenue and Cactus Road. No injuries were reported, but the home did catch fire after officials fired gas and "diversionary devices" into the home.

Two days later, Phoenix police shot and killed a man in downtown Phoenix near Central Avenue and Osborn Road. In that incident, officers were responding to a trespassing call at a business when a struggle ensued between the suspect and officers.

A third officer-involved shooting occurred Thursday morning in the area of 27th and Southern avenues. A Phoenix officer fired a "suppression shot" while serving a search warrant at a home suspected of drug activity. No injuries were reported during that incident.