A state police trooper on Saturday collided with a bicyclist he was pursuing, killing the bicyclist.

The fatal crash occurred around 12:30 p.m. south of Milton after the trooper spotted a bicyclist matching the description of a burglary suspect, according to a police news release.

State police had not released the name of the bicyclist as of 4 p.m. Sunday.

The trooper, who was not identified, has been with state police for four years and was placed on administrative leave pending an investigation. State police offered few details about the collision and did not announce the death until nearly 12 hours after the wreck.

"The suspect ignored numerous verbal commands and continued to flee," Delaware State Police Spokesman Sgt. Richard Bratz said in a news release late Saturday. "As the pursuit of the suspect continued the two vehicles were involved in a collision."

The News Journal asked for information last week about the state police pursuit policy after another incident in which Delaware River and Bay Authority Police and a state trooper engaged in a chase at speeds more than 100 mph. Information on the policy wasn't provided by state police, who instructed The News Journal to make a Freedom of Information Act request. That request has been filed but has not yet been returned.

"Any chase is dangerous, but it becomes exponentially more dangerous if you get away from a normal car," said Geoffrey Alpert, a criminologist at the University of South Carolina who specializes in high-risk police activity, including pursuits. "The rules are pretty straightforward for any pursuit that the need to apprehend must be balanced against the risk of the pursuit. Chasing a bicyclist has enormous risks."

Alpert said he can't recall any pursuit policy he's reviewed which specifically dictates how officers should engage if the suspect is on a bicycle. He said some policies cover motorcycle chases, which are generally considered dangerous for multiple reasons.

In that high-speed car pursuit on Interstate 95 last week, officers disengaged when the motorist they were chasing exited on Del. 896 into a residential area. Safety for officers, other motorists and pedestrians was the reason an official cited for ending the chase.

Bratz's news release did not account for the speed of the pursuit Saturday afternoon, nor did it mention factors such as traffic, proximity between the trooper and the bicyclist, the length of the pursuit or the condition of the roadways at the time of the collision.

The National Weather Service registered only a trace amount of rain at its Georgetown recording station before 12:30 p.m. Saturday, though it was enough to wet roadway surfaces, according to an NWS meteorologist in Mt. Holly, New Jersey.

Bratz on Sunday declined to answer further questions about the collision, citing the active investigation.

Troop 7 patrol units were searching for their suspect — reportedly a thin white man on a bike between 20-30 years old in the area of the Lazy Lake and Hunters Mill Estates communities — when the trooper on Fisher Road spotted the bicyclist, police said.

"Recent video surveillance of a burglarized residence supported the description information," Bratz said in the news release.

The trooper, who was driving a marked 2016 Chevrolet Tahoe, was traveling northbound on Fisher Road toward Lewes-Georgetown Highway south of Milton, police said.

Police said the trooper turned around and activated his emergency lights and sirens to get the bicyclist to stop, but the bicyclist continued southbound on Fisher Road. Police said the trooper gave the bicyclist verbal commands to stop, but he did not.

After the collision, the 32-year-old bicyclist was transported to Beebe Medical Center by ambulance where he was pronounced dead, police said. The trooper wasn't hurt.

Alpert isn't familiar with Delaware state law and hasn't reviewed DSP pursuit policies. But he said most state police policies limit pursuits to those of suspects in violent crimes.

"What the chief does when he or she limits it to a violent crime is basically doing the math for the officer: if it's not a violent crime, it's not worth the risk," Alpert said. "The officer doesn't have to go through all these different iterations as he or she is chasing."

Bratz said multiple electronic devices were recovered and seized from the burglary suspect involved in the crash. He said police are in the process of identifying the stolen items and contacting the rightful owners so those electronics can be returned.

Bratz declined to answer whether the deceased suspect was considered armed or dangerous at the time the pursuit began, citing an active investigation.

Officers involved in incidents which lead to a death regularly are placed on administrative leave while an investigation is carried out. Alpert said criminal charges against officers are rare, though civil suits may arise from incidents with deaths.

Discipline from superiors at DSP will be contingent on the results of the investigation, Alpert said. The degree of discipline should follow degree of fault in a case, he said.

"You'd want to know where the officer was, what the officer did. You have to attribute fault and blame, and it may be equal. That's what the investigation is going to tell," Alpert said. "These are rare, and you really want to know what happened. As the investigation develops, you'll learn more about what was the risk and what was the benefit, what were the risk factors and how were they handled."

Contact Adam Duvernay at (302) 319-1855 or aduvernay@delawareonline.com

CRASHES

Del. 141 lanes reopened following serious motorcycle crash

Truck turns over Sunday morning on Del. 141