AKRON, Ohio -- A lawsuit filed Friday in federal court accuses Springfield Township police officers and Summit County deputies of using excessive force that resulted in the death of an unarmed man who was suffering a mental break.

The lawsuit, filed in the Northern District of Ohio, claims officers violated the constitutional rights of Ryan Angerstien, 30, by repeatedly tackling and Tasing him early one morning two years ago, causing him to die.

The suit is brought by Raymond Angerstien, the victim’s father and administrator of his estate, seeking compensatory and punitive damages.

“It’s been beyond devastating for the family,” civil rights attorney Paul Cristallo told cleveland.com. “But this case has to also be taken in the context of what’s going on in our country right now, and how the culture of a police department or the mentality of specific officers is to be inhumane… It’s just a disregard for people who they think don’t deserve to be treated with any level of dignity.”

The Black Lives Matter movement has called attention to police killings and brutality involving Black people, including George Floyd, an unarmed Black man who died May 25 while being restrained by Minneapolis police.

Angerstien, who was white, struggled with mental health, addiction and substance abuse, making him vulnerable to abuse and improper policing. On the night he died, Angerstien was having a mental breakdown caused or aggravated by the use of methamphetamine, the lawsuit said.

The lawsuit alleges the officers didn’t use de-escalation techniques or provide Angerstien with medical care, but subjected him to “excessive force, mental anguish and [denied him] medical care for his serious needs.”

A Springfield Township police spokesman said Friday he was not able to comment on the litigation because the department had not been served with the filing. The Summit County Sheriff’s Department did not immediately respond to respond to a request for comment.

Angerstien was living with his grandmother and uncle in Springfield Township when he had a mental health episode the morning of June 18, 2018.

The first call to 911 that evening, around 1 a.m., was made by Angerstien, who promptly hung up. The 911 dispatcher called back and spoke with his grandmother, and officers responded to the home.

Springfield Township officers, including one of the named defendants, Billie Laurenti, arrived and were told about Angerstien’s mental health and substance abuse issues, the lawsuit states. Laurenti and other officers observe him exhibiting “extreme paranoia and other obvious signs of being in a mental health crisis and/or under the influence of drugs,” the lawsuit says.

The officers determined that Angerstien was not a threat to himself or others, and left the scene. About an hour later, police received another 911 call from a neighbor about Angerstien screaming on their porch and banging on their door, asking for help, the lawsuit says.

Officer Laurenti’s body-cam video shows her return to the scene and see Angerstien exhibiting signs of mental distress, making incoherent statements and sobbing, the lawsuit says. At one point, he tells the officer, “I’m scared, I don’t know who to trust, please!”

The officer asked Angerstien’s uncle, with whom he had a close relationship and was the only other person at the scene he knew, to leave, and he did. Within two minutes, the officer was alone with Angerstien, and pointed her Taser at him, ordering him to sit on the ground, the video shows. He lowered to one knee with his hands up, as she yelled, “Lay down flat on your stomach! Do you understand me? … Do you understand me? … Don’t move.”

A police supervisor arrived, and the two officers continued to ask questions and make demands of Angerstien, who appeared scared of them and their flashlights, the lawsuit states. An officer pointed a flashlight into Angerstien’s eyes, and, he jumped up, screaming, “Oh my god, help!” and tried to run. The officers tackled and Tased Angerstien, the lawsuit states, and he ran in pain to another house on his street, begging for help.

On a neighboring small front porch, the officers ordered Angerstien to lie on his stomach. He tried to run, and the officers again Tased and tackled him, and could be heard in the video screaming in pain and begging for help. The video shows other officers and deputies arrive, stops moving after being Tased again. The officers made comments about how they detected his faint breath and faint heartbeat.

The Summit County Medical Examiner’s Office said Angerstien’s death was ruled “undetermined,” and that the cause of death was was methamphetamine toxicity complicated by police restraint.

Shortly after the incident, Springfield Township police released a statement saying that Angerstien became unresponsive as police tried to detain him.

“Mr. Angerstien was observed to be irrational and highly agitated and resisted all attempts of assistance,” the department said in a news release. “Due to the aggressive state of Mr. Angerstien, officers were forced to deploy the use of Tasers. The Taser deployment had no visible effect on Mr. Angerstien and he continued to resist and flee.”

Cristallo said the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation investigated the incident and found the use-of-force was justifiable.

In addition to Laurenti, the named defendants on the lawsuit are Springfield Township police officers Brian Troyer, Stephen Burket and David Hoover, Summit County deputy Catherine Phillips and six unidentified officers, deputies or paramedics.