This is the moment an Arizona woman opened fire on law enforcement officers who chased her for a suspected carjacking, showing no regard for her own safety or that of her 13-year-old son who was with her.

Authorities have released body cam footage from the July 5 incident where fire was returned to Sylvia Marie Bejarano, 33. She later died in hospital after efforts were made to save her.

A video clip from ABC News also shows law enforcement used a taser gun on Jose Manuel Gonzales, 45, the driver of the vehicle they were suspected of stealing, as he tried to flee the scene.

Scroll down for videos

Sylvia Marie Bejarano, 33, (pictured after arrested for previous offenses) died after law enforcement returned fire when she shot a police car July 5

Law enforcement have released body cam footage of the incident in Phoenix, Arizona where Jose Manuel Gonzales, 45, was subdued with a taser gun in the suspected carjacking chase

He was subdued and taken to a Maricopa County jail.

No officers were hurt in the shootout and the child was found to be safe after the incident that began at Arizona's La Quinta hotel around 6.30pm.

Detective Lily Duran said Tempe Police confronted the pair on the Thursday evening near 48th Street and Southern Avenue but Gonzalez behind the wheel rammed into the police car blocking him in and took off collecting Bejarano's son along the way.

The K-9 Unit eventually caught up with them on 47th and Pecan Road where the woman got out of the car and shot, hitting a police vehicle in the process.

No officers were hurt in the shootout and the 13-year-old child was found to be safe after the incident that began at Arizona's La Quinta hotel around 6.30pm

Tempe police are investigating after an officer-involved shooting near 48th Street and Southern BREAKING: Tempe police are investigating after an officer-involved shooting near 48th Street and Southern. One woman is extremely critical, no officers were injured. STORY: https://bit.ly/2KMg2Nv Posted by ABC15 Arizona on Thursday, July 5, 2018

An obituary for her found online describes Bejarano as a homemaker who had three children Samuel Rodriguez, Joshua Rodriguez, and Zariah Bejarano

Phoenix Police Department has been leading the investigation into what happened that night.

It's the 47th shooting involving law enforcement in the county this year and of those people 26 victims have died.

Public records show Bejarano was arrested and jailed January 8 for failure to pay a fine and another count of driving without a licence which could have been suspended, revoked or canceled.

An obituary for her found online describes Bejarano as a homemaker who had three children Samuel Rodriguez, Joshua Rodriguez, and Zariah Bejarano.

She survived by her parents Salvador Bejarano and Winfred Pablo, and grandmother Deanna Bejarano.

Bejarano also had 11 siblings Angela, Andrew, Melissa, Simone, Salina, Jae'Lynn, Salvador Jr., Y'sara, Aaliyah, Salano, and Sossa.

A flyer for her wake on July 12 and funeral July 13 had a note for attendees not to bring any alcohol or drugs and instructed guests not to wear gang attire for the church service.