Teresa Stepzinski

tstepzinski@jacksonville.com

The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office chief of investigations said a veteran officer had no other option except deadly force to stop a mentally ill man coming at him with a large kitchen knife while threatening to kill police Saturday morning.

Officer Richard W. Futch, a 23-year Sheriff's Office veteran, shot to death Harold Eugene Kraai, 52, — who his family said had schizophrenia — during a deadly 10-second encounter outside his home in the 11400 block of Avery Drive on the city's Northside.

Chief Chris Butler said Futch defended himself against an armed suicidal man with a history of violent behavior.

"In my personal opinion, yes, lethal force was the only option," Butler said Sunday after detailing the circumstances of the shooting.

It was the first fatal police shooting in Jacksonville this year. But it is similar to an unrealted 2016 case where Jacksonville police fatally shot another mentally ill man armed wielding multiple knives as he ran at them.

Butler said this was Futch's first officer-involved shooting. Under standard Sheriff's Office policy, Futch has been placed on paid administrative leave. The office of State Attorney Melissa Nelson is conducting an independent investigation of the shooting, which also is being reviewed by a Sheriff's Office Response to Resistance Review Board, he said.

Neither Futch nor his backup, Officer H. Lopez, was injured in the incident that began when Kraai's mother called police for help after became violent, Butler said. He said that violence included smashing out her car window during some kind of "a mental episode."

Jacqueline Weaver said she called police because she needed help getting Kraai to a hospital. She never thought police would shoot him, Times-Union news partner First Coast News reported.

Kraai's uncle, Mark Sanchez told the Times-Union that police should have used a Taser to stop his nephew. Although Kraai was a large man — about 300 pounds and 6 feet 4 inches tall — a Taser would have dropped him to the ground, Sanchez said.

The family couldn't be reached for comment Sunday.

Butler said neither Futch nor Lopez were wearing body cameras. He wasn't aware of any independent witnesses to the shooting in a neighborhood near San Mateo Elementary School that residents described as normally quiet.

He said Kraai had a criminal history including aggravated battery, disorderly intoxication, battery, domestic violence battery, criminal mischief, trespassing and making threats. Kraai also had been committed involuntarily for psychiatric treatment under the state Baker Act several times, Butler said.

Butler said Weaver called police about 10 a.m. Saturday and reported Kraai was mentally ill and had beaten the windows out of her car. He quoted her as saying Kraai was violent and trying to attack. She also said everyone had left the home "because they are really frightened and felt someone would be hurt if they did not," Butler said.

Kraai then called 911 and told the dispatcher he just broke the car window, his mom was mean to him and his stepfather tried to jump on him, Butler said.

"He further stated that he wanted to kill himself. He doesn't want to live any more. He's taking everyone out with him who comes to the door and he indicated that he had plenty of weapons," Butler said.

Butler said Kraai also said he wasn't taking any medication and "that he is ready for anyone that comes to the door and that he's going to kill them with his bare hands and anything that he can find."

Police upgraded the call to a suicide threat with unknown means as officers were en route to the home. Futch arrived at 10:13 a.m., got out of his patrol car and saw Kraai sitting on the front porch of the home, Butler said.

Butler said Kraai stood up holding a foot-long knife with an 8 inch blade in his right hand when he saw Futch get out of his car. He began walking toward Futch, who drew his department-issued handgun and repeatedly ordered Kraai to drop the knife and stop advancing, Butler said.

"The suspect [Kraai] told Officer Futch to kill him, repeatedly," said Butler, adding that Kraai had raised the knife up over his head as if to stab downward as he advanced on Futch. "It wasn't a slow casual walk at all. He's charging toward the officer."

"So, at that time the officer was totally lawful in the application of deadly force," Butler said. Futch did have a Taser and could have used it but didn't given the circumstances, Butler said.

Butler said Futch was about 6 feet to 8 feet away when he shot Kraai. Futch fired eight bullets at Kraai, who was struck in his torso. Butler said he didn't know how many bullets hit Kraai.

Lopez didn't fire his weapon. He arrived on the scene as Futch had his gun out and was ordering Kraai to drop the knife, Butler said.

Kraai collapsed mortally wounded. Police administered emergency first aid until paramedics arrived and took Kraai to UF Health Jacksonville where he died, Butler said.

"It was no more than 10 seconds" from the time Futch arrived on the scene until he fired at Kraai, Butler said.

He said police recovered the knife next to Kraai's body in the front yard.

Butler said police have responded to that address eight times since January 2016. Those calls for service ranged from domestic violence, mental illness, auto theft investigation, a traffic crash, armed domestic dispute and a suicide threat, Butler said.

"Furthermore, records indicate that there have been a total of four Baker Acts from that address, which began in 2009 [and] 2014, 2016 and 2017," said Butler, citing the Florida law allowing a person to be taken to a hospital for involuntary psychiatric treatment.

Neighbors previously told the Times-Union Kraai generally kept to himself and often sat on the front porch of the home.

Kraai's death is the second in as many years involving Jacksonville police shooting to death a mentally ill man who charged at them brandishing a large knife while threatening to kill the officers.

Cody Nathanael Marsh, 19, of Orange Park was swinging a machete-style knife as well as a dagger-like knife as he charged two two Sheriff's Office veterans while threatening to cut the heads off May 14, 2016 near a downtown fast food restaurant. The officers shot Marsh, who was armed with several other knives, in the head and arm. Marsh died several days later.

Responding to questions about Kraai's shooting, Butler said all the agency's officers receive a total of 40 hours training at the police academy in how to handle mentally ill people. Officers also undergo refresher training as required by police certification standards, he said.

In addition, all Sheriff's Office employees undergo an 8-hour mental health first aid course that teaches how to identify, understand and respond to signs of mental illness, Butler said.

Butler said he didn't know when the State Attorney's Office investigation or Sheriff's Office review would be completed.

Teresa Stepzinski: (904) 359-4075