The armed man who barricaded himself inside a home in Lakeland with his 6-year-old daughter has died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to the Polk County Sheriff’s Office.

Sheriff Grady Judd said 39-year-old Gary Cauley released his daughter Ryland from the home Sunday afternoon, after holding her hostage for 24 hours.

Investigators said Cauley had the girl barricaded inside the home with him after an argument with his estranged wife. Judd said Cauley showed up to the woman’s home around 4 a.m. Saturday and continued arguing with her throughout the day.

Things escalated around 1 p.m. after Ryland let it slip that she and her mother were planning to go to the beach with another man. Cauley then armed himself with a handgun, threatened to harm himself and refused to let his daughter leave.

In a news conference Saturday evening, Sheriff Judd said detectives spoke with Cauley on the phone when the wife called 911. They heard the daughter laughing and playing in the background at the time and did not believe she was in any immediate danger.

“He truly appears to love her,” Sheriff Judd said on Saturday. “We’re going to do everything in our power to resolve this peacefully and keep this 6-year-old safe. We are getting zero indication from Gary that he is threatening any violence toward her.”

The sheriff’s office SWAT team arrived at the home to set up a perimeter and negotiators began talking to Cauley. Judd said they asked him “dozens and dozens” of times to turn Ryland loose and give up, but he refused and started playing games with officers.

Deputies became concerned early Sunday morning after there had been about five hours of dead silence. But Judd said Cauley and the child had been barricaded in the closet and were simply taking a nap.

Negotiators finally spoke with Cauley shortly before noon when he promised to leave the home, but never did. At 1 p.m., Cauley told detectives he would let the girl go in 30 minutes.

Around 1:20 p.m., the child walked out of the home and calmly into the arms of deputies.

Ryland told detectives she was not scared during the ordeal but noticed her father was visibly shaken. He was pacing back and forth and never put the gun down.

At 1:24 p.m., deputies accessed the home using a robot and pushed a hole through the closet of the master bedroom where Cauley was holed up.

When he refused to leave the closet, the SWAT team introduced a chemical agent through several different windows.

Shortly before 2 p.m., deputies said Cauley came to the front window and pointed the gun at his head and chest and put the firearm in his mouth.

After deputies introduced more of the chemical agent, Judd said Cauley walked out of the home, then he put the gun in his mouth and pulled the trigger. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

According to Judd, Cauley is a convicted felon with previous arrests for domestic battery, theft and fraud among other charges.

Had he not committed suicide, Cauley would have faced a series of charges stemming from the standoff including armed kidnapping, possession of a firearm during a felony and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. Judd said he was not legally allowed to own a gun.

At this time, Ryland is in the custody of the Department of Children and Families and will not be reunited with her mother until the agency determines it is safe, Judd said.

