2:45 p.m. update

The man who died during a high-speed police pursuit along one of Tallahassee’s busiest thoroughfares has been a habitual traffic offender for over a decade with a history of fleeing police.

Jerrod Shamburger, 34, died after a chase that started at the Red Roof Inn on North Monroe Street near Interstate 10 and ended downtown with his Chevy Camero crumpled against a speed limit sign pole.

In July 2008, Shamburger led Tallahassee Police on a chase that started just a block from where he died Tuesday.

At about 8:30 a.m. on July 9, an ex-girlfriend flagged down a motorcycle cop to inform him Shamburger was driving knowingly on a suspended license and had just passed by.

More:Witnesses describe 'crazy' chase that turned fatal in downtown Tallahassee

More:Tallahassee Police officers can pursue vehicles if they suspect a violent felony

The officer got behind his 1997 Chevy sedan where it was parked at the red light of Tennessee Street and Calhoun Street. The officer looked at him and told him to pull over when the light changed.

Shamburger continued west on Tennessee Street and sped through the red light at Monroe Street. He turned north and the officer followed him for a few blocks. He was not stopped.

Two days later, he was spotted pulling into the Shell gas station on Mahan Drive by a Tallahassee Police officer who knew him. He had four warrants for his arrest including charges from the pursuit.

Shamburger came out of the store and fled on foot into a patch of kudzu along the railroad tracks. Police unsuccessfully searched for him with dogs.

They later received a tip that a man matching his description had gone into the Patient’s First next door. He was located in the “employees only” bathroom curled up inside a small cabinet.

Leon County court records indicate that since 2002 his driver’s license has been suspended several times, some related to failure to pay court fines. He’s faced charges of driving while his license is revoked or suspended at least five times, along with resisting officers, giving a false name, forgery and drug charges.

He has been listed as a habitual traffic offender in state databases since 2005.

In June 2013, he was charged in Holmes County with driving on a license suspended for more than 6 months. He was adjudicated guilty.

His license was not valid at the time of Tuesday’s chase.

12:15 p.m. update

Tallahassee Police identified the man killed following a chase with officers Tuesday night as 34-year-old Jerrod S. Shamburger.

Anyone who may have seen the crash should call (850) 891-4200 and ask to speak with the Traffic Homicide Unit or anonymously call Crime Stoppers at (850) 574-TIPS.

11:37 a.m. update

The man who died Tuesday night after a vehicle pursuit with Tallahassee police led officers up and down busy North Monroe Street, according to one eyewitness.

Lacy McMullen Jr., a loan officer at InstaLoan on North Monroe, saw the police chase twice — once when the suspect was racing north on Monroe toward Lake Jackson and again, about 15 minutes later, when he was speeding south on Monroe toward downtown. He saw a silver car, perhaps a Chrysler, with several officers following behind with their lights flashing and sirens blaring.

“The guy in the car was going extremely fast,” McMullen said. “He was ducking and dodging in between the lanes. When I saw him go down the first time, I thought OK — just a guy running from a stop or something. But when I saw it come back, I thought, oh my God, this must have been pretty serious.”

He caught a glimpse of the chase the first time after taking out the trash at work and spotted it a second time after stopping by the Lake Ella Publix after work.

“When I saw the car again, it was dented up pretty badly,” he said. “I’m assuming a piece of the bumper or something fell off the car. I saw something drop off the car and it sounded like the police that were chasing him ran over it.”

McMullen, a Florida State University graduate, said the chase looked like something out of the movies.

“It was crazy,” he said. “It went on for quite a bit. You could hear the sirens. I’ve never seen anything like that in my life.”

The man who led officers on the chase eventually crashed at North Monroe and West Tennessee streets, suffering critical injuries, according to a news release from the Tallahassee Police Department. He later died at a local hospital.

TPD said the chase began after officers were called to the Red Roof Inn near Monroe and Interstate 10 in reference to a “weapons call.” While officers were on the scene, the man attempted to run over two pedestrians and fled the scene, TPD said.

Check back with Tallahassee.com for more on this story.

Morning update

A suspect Tallahassee Police pursued in a vehicle chase Tuesday night died after crashing at the intersection of Monroe and Tennessee streets.

The driver was taken to a local hospital with critical injuries and later died, according to TPD.

Officers were called at about 7:30 p.m. to the Red Roof Inn off Hospitality Street in reference to a weapons call. While police were on the scene, the suspect attempted to run over two pedestrians and drove away.

TPD Spokesman Damon Miller said Wednesday morning he could not comment on the nature of the initial 911 call, except that it was for weapons, or whether the suspect was staying at the hotel. Miller could also not say whether weapons were found in the vehicle following the chase.

The pursuit ended when the suspect crashed at the intersection of North Monroe and Tennessee streets.

Four intersections were closed: North Monroe and Virginia streets; Tennessee and Calhoun streets; North Monroe and Call streets; and Tennessee & Adams streets.

Those intersections remained closed for hours as Traffic Homicide investigators took pictures and mapped the scene. The vehicle is still being processed.

More details are expected to be released today.

Anyone who may have seen the crash should call (850) 891-4200 and ask to speak with the Traffic Homicide Unit or anonymously call Crime Stoppers at (850) 574-TIPS.