City of Houston employee identified as innocent driver killed during high-speed chase.

City of Houston employee identified as innocent driver killed during high-speed chase

HOUSTON, Texas (KTRK) -- A City of Houston employee has been identified as the innocent driver killed during a high-speed chase Saturday morning in Harris County.

According to the Harris County Sheriffs Office, a chase ended with the suspect killing 60-year-old Adorn Strambler.

Authorities said that DPS troopers conducted a traffic stop on a stolen 2012 Ford Mustang around 6:00 a.m. Saturday. As the trooper approached the vehicle, the suspect, 17-year-old Chidi Onunkwo, sped away in his vehicle.

Investigators said Onunwko ran several traffic lights and struck Strambler's 2017 Honda at the intersection of Shiller and Highway 6.

Strambler, a senior paralegal in the city's legal department, died at the scene.

She's a woman her neighbors will remember as someone who loved to work on her yard, exercise, and was always friendly.

"Always waved," Stephen Cichon said. "She was a very sweet lady. Very nice lady."

Cichon bonded with Strambler over more than yard work.

The two were city employees.

Cichon is a retired Houston firefighter. He said her department will be devastated by the news.

"Working for the city, minimal resources, a lot of stress," Cichon said. "They feel like they're in the trenches a lot. I'm sure there is a closeness of bond because of that. They're definitely going to feel her loss as a friend and as a colleague."

Authorities said Okunkwo attempted to flee on foot after the crash, but deputies found him and he was arrested for felony evading in a vehicle.

In a statement, city officials called Strambler's death a "loss for the entire city."

"Mayor Turner has been notified and privately will share his condolences with the family," a statement read.

On Twitter, HPD Chief Art Acevedo said the department has introduced new tactics to safely bring a chase to an end.

"Sadly, a member of our city family was taken from us as a result of the actions of a fleeing suspect yesterday," he tweeted. "We will continue to do our best to bring these pursuits to a safe end to help prevent death and injury. We will continue evaluating new tactics to enhance safety of all."