A man shot and killed by police earlier this summer drew a gun on the officer and may have been suicidal, authorities said.

Chief Keith McPheeters released video Tuesday of the encounter between officer Craig Burns, a five-year veteran of the force, and William T. McCollum. The video captured Burns firing his weapon, but McCollum is not in the frame.

McCollum called out to Burns before walking toward him while pulling the gun from his waistband, according to District Attorney Michael Blonigen. Burns shot his gun six times and hit McCollum once in each shoulder and once in his torso, Blonigen stated in an Aug. 31 letter. The shot to the torso killed McCollum.

Blonigen concluded Burns acted legally in shooting McCollum. Blonigen’s letter to the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation, which examined the case, states, “Officer Burns acted appropriately in the situation and in clear self defense.”

According to Blonigen’s letter, as McCollum led law enforcement on a series of high-speed chases, he recorded videos and shared them via the social media app Snapchat. The series of chases, which involved four law enforcement agencies, reached triple-digit speeds, according to Blonigen and McPheeters.

At a Tuesday morning press conference, McPheeters released police dash-cam video from the various pursuits and the fatal encounter. McCollum cannot be seen in the video of the final encounter. Burns approaches McCollum’s car, parked behind the gas station, before turning to his left and firing his gun while backpedaling.

McPheeters said McCollum pulled a gun from his waistband before pointing it at Burns. An off-duty sheriff’s deputy, who saw McCollum’s parked car and called it in, shouted to Burns to warn him about the gun, McPheeters said.

The video was recorded by Burns’s fail-safe in car-system and did not capture audio.

McCollum was wanted for threatening people with a gun earlier in the morning in an east side apartment, McPheeters said. McCollum had been friends with them, according to police.

The chief said he did not know the results of a toxicology test the Natrona County Coroner’s Office performed on McCollum. McPheeters believes McCollum was suffering from a mental health crisis when he died, but said he would not elaborate out of respect for the dead man.

Blonigen’s letter states that multiple civilian witnesses told investigators McCollum had a history of depression and suicidal ideation. McCollum had talked to “many” of the same people about being shot by police, Blonigen wrote.

The shooting took place at a Loaf ‘N Jug gas station on the city’s west side. Police say Burns responded to the gas station while driving to work after hearing over the radio about a dangerous situation.

Earlier that morning, authorities received 911 calls reporting that a man had pointed a gun at several people at an apartment complex on the 500 block of Granite Drive, on the city’s eastern border.

Officers located McCollum, but he fled the area. They later located him in nearby Evansville.

Police say McCollum led officers on a high-speed chase down Second Street in Casper. For safety reasons, police temporarily stopped pursuing McCollum.