Authorities have identified the woman who was shot and killed at her Weymouth home Sunday after police say the suspect fatally shot an officer.

The woman was identified Monday as Vera Adams. She was 77.

Court records released Monday also provided details of the fatal shootings and previous arrests of the suspect, 20-year-old Emanuel Lopes, in Weymouth.

The incident began around 7:30 a.m. Sunday morning, when a call to 911 said that a BMW was speeding and driving erratically, State Police Trooper Brian Tully wrote in a report filed at Quincy District Court on Monday.

The BMW — driven by Lopes, but owned by the mother of his girlfriend — sideswiped an SUV, according to the report, and Lopes jumped from the car — but yelled "I'm sorry," or something similar, to the driver he'd hit.

From there, according to the report, Lopes ran through backyards near South Shore Hospital, eventually encountering Officer Michael Chesna, who'd been dispatched to the scene. Chesna saw Lopes throw a rock through the window of a home on Burton Terrace.

Then, Tully said, Lopes turned toward Chesna, picked up another large rock, and charged toward the officer. From at least 10 feet away, Lopes threw the rock at Chesna, hitting him in the head and knocking him to the ground.

Lopes picked up Chesna's firearm, a neighbor told police, and fired approximately 10 rounds into the officer. Chesna was taken to South Shore Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

A second officer, Sean Murphy, arrived on scene and spotted Lopes standing over Chesna with a gun, Tully said. Murphy shot at Lopes, hitting him in the leg, and Lopes ran into the backyard of 100 Torrey St., where he fired three rounds into a porch's picture window.

Inside the porch was Adams. Police say she was shot in the chest and killed.

When police officers took Lopes into custody, they say, the gun was still in his hand and the clip was empty. He'd fired 15 or 16 shots in all.

Lopes was arrested and brought to South Shore Hospital with non-life threatening injuries. He was not medically available for an arraignment Monday, according to a spokesman for the Norfolk district attorney.

People pay their respects to Officer Michael Chesna, as a procession carrying his body goes through Weymouth Monday. Chesna and Vera Adams were killed Sunday morning. (Yasmin Amer/WBUR)

Lopes was known to Weymouth police before Sunday. In October, Lopes ran from police when they encountered him and others drinking near Wessagusset Beach. In a bag he allegedly left behind, police found what appeared to be cocaine and a scale.

"He is 6'-3" tall and we have fought with him before," Officer Edward Hancock wrote in the arrest report.

Lopes was arrested and charged with felony drug possession charges and resisting arrest.

His mother told police she'd been looking to "section" her son — an apparent reference to seeking a Section 35, which would allow a court to involuntarily commit him because of drug or alcohol abuse — and she was "planning an intervention before this incident occurred," according to the October police report.

A month earlier, records show Lopes was arrested and charged with defacement or damage of public property, after allegedly throwing a rock into the bedroom window of a house he'd been kicked out of earlier in the night.

Back on Torrey Street on Monday, neighbor Helen Thompson left flowers at Adams' home and said the incident has devastated her community.

"Somebody's in her house, just sitting there and being shot, it's just devastating," Thompson said.

Also Monday, officers escorted the hearse carrying Chesna's body from the medical examiner's office in Boston to a funeral home in Weymouth.

A vigil for the victims is set for Weymouth High School Monday at 7 p.m.