MANSFIELD - Leviticus Drye has a laundry list of charges against him.

Drye, 30, faces counts of murder, involuntary manslaughter, aggravated robbery, obstructing official business, failure to comply, tampering with evidence, felonious assault, criminal damaging, right of way on public highway, aggravated vehicular homicide, operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated, aggravated vehicular assault and robbery.

The Richland County Prosecutor's Office released indictments on Wednesday. Drye's robbery charge relates to an Sept. 13 incident at Subway, 1521 Lexington Ave.

Prosecutors allege all the other charges happened the next day, when Drye is accused of robbing the KeyBank at 1485 Lexington Ave.

Police previously said Drye demanded "all the money." Witnesses said the robber's vehicle was a gold Chevrolet Cavalier.

"Eventually, officers locate a vehicle matching the description," Chief Criminal Assistant Prosecutor Brandon Pigg said. "A chase ensued. Once that got onto Fourth Street, there was another vehicle that was pulling onto Fourth Street."

The ensuing collision ended the chase at West Fourth Street and the Ohio 309 ramps in Ontario, near El Campestre.

Police reported recovering $1,203 from the car and another $180 at another location.

"It's alleged to have been tossed from the car," Pigg said.

RELATED:Indictment list

SEE ALSO:Most Wanted for week of Jan. 1, 2018

Drye's passenger, Marco Gomez Jr., 21, died the next day at OhioHealth Mansfield Hospital.

"It's our allegation that this was one continuous course of conduct," Pigg said. "The aggravated robbery led to the injuries of Mr. Gomez."

The grand jury also returned indictments against Nicole Blevins, 30, on six counts of assault and Loney Murphy, 44, on two counts of aggravated robbery.

The charges against Blevins stem from reported incidents on two different days.

"It's alleged that Ms. Blevins, using her vehicle, attempted to ram repeatedly another individual known to her in an effort to cause harm to her," Prosecutor Gary Bishop said.

Prosecutors say the first incident happened Sept. 1 on Lexington Avenue, the second on Sept. 2 near McPherson Street.

"The relationship between the two is that the defendant is the ex-girlfriend of the father of the baby of the alleged victim," Bishop said.

Bishop added the charges account for each person in the car at the time. There were no injuries.

Take the news with you. Download the Mansfield News Journal app on the Apple App Store or Google Play.

Murphy is accused of robbing two businesses on Nov. 12, the Lexington Avenue Drive Thru and the Recovery Room.

"He allegedly portrayed himself as being armed," Bishop said.

The prosecutor said Murphy made off with about $300 and a pack of cigarettes from the Lexington Avenue Drive Thru but left empty-handed at the Recovery Room.

mcaudill@gannett.com

419-521-7219

Twitter: @MNJCaudill