There are new details about what preceded a deadly police pursuit Tuesday and the Indianapolis man arrested in the case.

Example video title will go here for this video

INDIANAPOLIS (WTHR) - There are new details about what preceded a deadly police pursuit Tuesday and the Indianapolis man arrested in the case.

An Oldsmobile driven by Mark Steven Padgett can be seen on video driving at full speed into the busy intersection of Brookville Road and Arlington Avenue. Security cameras at Brookville Liquor Store recorded the intense impact.

The two cameras are always recording the intersection. The Oldsmobile is recorded speeding into cross traffic, striking a GMC pickup and a BMW SUV.

The video shows the Oldsmobile immediately caught fire. Padgett’s passenger, Michael Ramsey, 32, did not survive. Padgett went to the hospital with broken bones in his right leg. He is held in a hospital detention pending arrest.

Moments before the crash, state police say they watched Padgett in a heroin transaction. Investigators had him under surveillance and indicated that the heroin may have been laced with fentanyl.

A state trooper was assigned to stop Padgett’s car after the undercover transaction but the driver reportedly refused to stop for the officer's lights and sirens. That sparked a pursuit which reportedly lasted 4 minutes, according to ISP.

The video also shows the trooper who tried to stop him pull up to the intersection at a much slower speed. Eventually you can see other emergency responders arrive on the scene.

The video also shows witnesses rushing to the crash as paramedics transported two people from the pickup and the driver and passenger from the BMW all to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

13 Investigates checked Padgett's criminal background which shows arson, dealing marijuana, domestic battery and repeat probation violations. We also uncovered that since 2003, Marion County criminal court judges along with the Marion County prosecutors office have given Padgett numerous opportunities with a number of plea bargains, even after repeat probation violations. Padgett has had a revolving door in and out of jail for the past 15 years with minimum accountability for his repeat offenses.

Eyewitness News has learned State Police is working with prosecutors to charge Padgett with resisting law enforcement resulting in death, reckless homicide and failure to return to lawful detention. He was already wanted on an unrelated warrant connected to his probation violation.