Juan Manuel Correa-Leyva (Source: Pima County Sheriff's Department)

Pima County Sheriff's Department deputy Jose Velasco was injured in a shooting in Tucson Tuesday. Velasco returned fire and killed the suspect. (Source: Pima County Sheriff's Department)

Jose Velasco (Source: Pima County Sheriff's Department)

The Pima County Sheriff's Department is responding to an deputy-involved shooting near Ajo and Country Club.

TUCSON, AZ (Tucson News Now) - The name of the suspect killed in Tuesday's deputy involved shooting has been released as 27-year-old Juan Manuel Correa-Leyva, according to the Pima County Sheriff's Department.

The PCSD said Dep. Jose Velasco attempted to stop the vehicle that Correa-Leyva was driving around 3:20 p.m. near the intersection of Ajo Way and Country Club Road on Tuesday, July 17.

Correa-leyva tried to get away, dragging Velasco along, according to PCSD. Velasco was able to free himself and follow the vehicle.

The PCSD said that is when he got out and opened fire at Velasco, hitting him in the leg. The deputy was able to return fire and kill the suspect.

Velasco was taken to a hospital for treatment of injuries that are not life threatening. He was released later the same night.

Deputies performed CPR on the driver, but the suspect was pronounced dead at the scene.

Authorities reopened the intersection of Ajo and Country Club at about 9:30 p.m.

Richard, a driver who didn't want to share his last name, said the suspected driver was going around 60 miles per hour and changing lanes before Velasco initiated the stop.

"As I drove by, he had everything under control, he was just leaning up on the car. He had his hand on his gun. He was a little nervous, maybe," Richard said.

Brandon Heredia was working in the back of Dave's Customs auto body shop when the incident happened.

"I heard like two gun shots, after that I heard like six more. My dad called me and told me to come to the front," Heredia said. "There was cops everywhere, undercovers, cops running everywhere."

Copyright 2018 Tucson News Now. All rights reserved.