Prosecutors say additional charges could be filed against Victoria M. Brown

Charges filed against woman after four killed in crash following police chase

A Kansas City woman, 24, faces felony murder charges in multiple-fatality crash Friday afternoon.Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker charged Victoria M. Brown, 24, with three counts of second-degree murder and one count of resisting a lawful stop. Brown is suspected of being the driver of that Jeep. According to court records, Independence police officers tried to stop a black Jeep near 23rd Street and Hardy Avenue in Independence. The driver of the Jeep refused to stop and fled into Kansas City.Investigators said the Jeep collided with a Dodge Avenger with four passengers near 23rd Street and Television Place. Two men in the Dodge were killed. They were identified Shawn Johnson, 30, and AaRon C. Daniel, 29. A 27-year-old passenger in the Jeep also died. The prosecutor's office said a fourth person has died, and additional charges may be filed.Three others in the Jeep were also injured along with another person in the Dodge. Independence police said that Jeep was reported stolen in Independence on Thursday, and that the occupants of the Jeep were known to officers. Prosecutors asked for Brown's bail to be set at $250,000.

A Kansas City woman, 24, faces felony murder charges in multiple-fatality crash Friday afternoon.

Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker charged Victoria M. Brown, 24, with three counts of second-degree murder and one count of resisting a lawful stop. Brown is suspected of being the driver of that Jeep.

Advertisement

According to court records, Independence police officers tried to stop a black Jeep near 23rd Street and Hardy Avenue in Independence. The driver of the Jeep refused to stop and fled into Kansas City.

Investigators said the Jeep collided with a Dodge Avenger with four passengers near 23rd Street and Television Place. Two men in the Dodge were killed. They were identified Shawn Johnson, 30, and AaRon C. Daniel, 29.

A 27-year-old passenger in the Jeep also died.

The prosecutor's office said a fourth person has died, and additional charges may be filed.

Three others in the Jeep were also injured along with another person in the Dodge.

Independence police said that Jeep was reported stolen in Independence on Thursday, and that the occupants of the Jeep were known to officers.

Prosecutors asked for Brown's bail to be set at $250,000.



