Riverside police investigate the scene as at least five vehicles are stuck inside the police line tape after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Riverside police and a swat unit with guns drawn check the suspects car after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A Riverside police officer turns cars away from the crime scene tape in the Del Taco restaurant parking lot at California and Arlington Avenue’s after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Riverside police keep control of the scene as at least five vehicles are stuck inside the police line tape after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Sears workers and shoppers stand outside the main doors and watch what is happening after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A Riverside police officer escorts residents through the crime scene so they can get home from the Del Taco restaurant parking lot at California and Arlington Avenue’s after shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A father and son in a truck are released by Riverside police after they were in the Del Taco drive thru when shots were fired at the end of a pursuit in Riverside on Friday, July 20, 2018. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Riverside police officers shot and killed a man Friday after pursuing him from Hemet during a chase in which the suspect fired at the pursuing officers, authorities said.

The pursuit began about 7:40 p.m. in Hemet, where officers tried to contact the man in connection with a shooting investigation, Riverside police Officer Ryan Railsback said.

The suspect fled, heading west on Highway 74 and north on the 215 Freeway, and fired upon pursuing officers, including Riverside County sheriff’s deputies, Railsback said.

The pursuit continued onto Van Buren Boulevard into Riverside with the driver of the convertible sometimes speeding on the wrong side of the street. It continued onto Arlington Avenue, where the driver’s car got pinned between two civilian cars as he tried to maneuver between them. Officers then fired upon the driver.

The driver slumped over the wheel. Police waited for the SWAT team and a K-9 to arrive. When the driver was unresponsive, police allowed paramedics to examine the man. They pronounced him dead.

No officers or civilians were reported injured, Railsback said. Hemet police were at the scene, working with Riverside police.

Riverside residents Marie Lua, 23, and her husband Johnny Lua, 26, found themselves in the middle of the final confrontation, with bullets whizzing about them.

Sign up for our breaking news email newsletter: When major local news happens, you will be the first to know. Subscribe here

They were driving east on Arlington when they saw the suspect’s car coming at them the wrong way and try to pass them on the right.

“He drove past us and the cops started shooting … way too close to our car,” Marie Lua said.

They stopped and ducked down. Johnny Lua unbuckled their daughter and held her down. Police told them they weren’t in a safe place, so they ran.

The officers then ran toward the suspect’s car.

“I’m pretty sure they did what they had to do under the circumstances,” Johnny Lua said. “I’m just glad my daughter is safe.”