Rebecca Walter

rebecca.walter@blueridgenow.com

The suspect shot and killed by police at a CVS in Fletcher Wednesday has been identified as Wesley Shelton, 33, of Marshall.

Officers were dispatched to the pharmacy on Hendersonville Road at 12:17 p.m. after a 911 caller said a man had walked into the store carrying a handgun, according to a news release from the Fletcher Police Department.

The names of the officers involved have not been released. Those officers have been placed on paid administrative leave and their return status will be determined at a later date, pending the outcome of investigations by the police department and State Bureau of Investigation.

Fletcher Police Chief Erik Summey said this is the first officer-involved shooting for the department, to his knowledge.

After arriving at the pharmacy, officers spoke with employees and customers and confirmed the suspect had walked into a back room/storage area.

Officers made contact with Shelton and attempted to communicate with him, giving him verbal commands, the release says.

Shelton would not comply with the officers' directions and pointed a handgun at them, according to the police department.

Four officers discharged their weapons and then attempted to provide limited first aid to Shelton until Henderson County EMS and Fletcher Fire Department medical personnel arrived. They determined Shelton was beyond medical assistance.

No employees or customers were injured in the incident. The only injury sustained by officers was a slight knee injury on the stairs in the back of the store room, Summey said.

The State Bureau of Investigation is conducting the investigation and collected all evidence at the scene, according to the release. The Fletcher Police Department is conducting an internal investigation.

A person who called 911 Wednesday after Shelton entered the CVS said the suspect had a gun.

“Yes, we have a guy at the CVS pharmacy in Fletcher that just walked into our back room with a gun,” the caller said. “We don’t know if it is real or not, but we need an officer here ASAP.”

The caller, an employee, told dispatch the store manager saw a man with a gun. The suspect didn’t say anything, according to the employee, and headed for the back room after entering through the front of the store.

Employees were locked down in the pharmacy area, the caller said.

In another call to dispatch, the store manager said she had never seen the man before. The manager called from outside the store, where customers were taken during the incident.

Officers had already arrived on the scene by the time the 911 calls ended.

UPDATE at 10:45 a.m.:

A person who called 911 Wednesday after an unidentified man entered the CVS in Fletcher stated the suspect, who was later shot and killed by police, had a gun.

“Yes, we have a guy at the CVS pharmacy in Fletcher that just walked into our back room with a gun,” one caller said. “We don’t know if it is real or not, but we need an officer here ASAP.”

The caller, an employee, told dispatch the store manager saw the man with a gun. The suspect didn’t say anything, according to the employee, and headed for the back room after entering through the front of the store.

Employees were on lockdown in the pharmacy area, the caller stated.

The caller did not have a description of the suspect.

In the 911 call, the only description provided to dispatch that wasn’t redacted was that the suspect had on dark blue jeans.

The store manager said she had never seen the man before.

The manager called from outside the store, where the customers were taken during the incident.

Officers had already arrived on the scene by the time the 911 calls ended.

--------

A suspect reported to have a gun at CVS in Fletcher has been shot and killed by police.

Fletcher Police Chief Erik Summey confirmed the suspect is dead, and that it is an officer-involved shooting.

The name of the suspect has not yet been released.

No customers or employees were injured.

At about 12:15 p.m., several Fletcher police officers responded to a call about a man inside the store who was acting suspicious and had a gun.

“I don’t know if he was holding it, carrying it on his side; I’m not really sure,” Summey said of the weapon. “But obviously it panicked customers and employees and phone calls were made to get to the business.”

Officers were directed to the back of the building, the chief said. They were able to make contact with the suspect and engage him in “some sort of conversation,” he added.

The suspect was given orders and directions by officers, and did not comply, according to Summey, and shots were fired.

When EMS personnel arrived, they determined there was no medical assistance they could provide, Summey said.

Multiple officers were involved in the incident, and Summey said he did not yet know which officer shot the suspect.

Fletcher police are still at the scene. The State Bureau of Investigation also responded, which is protocol for officer-involved shootings.

The Henderson County Sheriff's Office, Hendersonville Police Department and N.C. Highway Patrol are also assisting.

For more on this story, check back with www.blueridgenow.com.