Cindy Swirko

cindy.swirko@gvillesun.com

Bradford County deputies who shot and killed a man who was fleeing a crime scene in July were cleared by a grand jury Tuesday but two co-defendants were indicted in connection with the shooting.

In a separate case, Bradford County sheriff’s deputies were cleared in an October shootout in which a Lawtey man was killed.

Jaylon Hankerson and Deontay Risby were both indicted for second-degree murder in the death of Davaughdre Rogers, 20, on July 24 in Starke, said Eighth Circuit State Attorney Bill Cervone.

They and Rogers allegedly fired shots in front of a home and forced their way in. They ran and were chased by sheriff’s deputies into Starke.

The shooting happened when the car stopped at the RJE Center on Pine Street, a recreation center in a former school. Rogers was shot when he pulled a rifle and tried to run from the car.

Cervone said the second-degree murder indictment is rare. It is used when multiple people are engaged in a felony and one of them is killed by a person not involved in the crime.

“It’s unusual,” Cervone said. “It doesn’t happen very often.”

In addition to the murder charge, Hankerson and Risby were also indicted on charges of burglary and armed trespassing on school property.

Hankerson, the driver, also faces a charge of fleeing and attempting to elude while Risby was charged with being a felon in possession of a firearm.

Rogers was alive at the shooting scene but later died at UF Health Shands Hospital. The recreation center has a gymnasium and children were there when the shooting occurred on a field outside the gym.

Deputies were also cleared by the grand jury in the Oct. 7 shooting death of Anthony Lee Hodges, 39, of 2985 NW 216th St.

Hodges was shot after firing at law officers on his property sometime after 8:54 a.m. Sunday. Hodges died while receiving treatment at a local hospital.

Hodges’ girlfriend contacted the Sheriff’s Office to report a domestic disturbance. Deputies tried to make contact with Hodges by calling his cell phone. Shortly after, Hodges came out of a shed on the property and began firing at deputies.