Phillip Jackson

Memphis Commercial Appeal

The death of a man shot by Memphis police officers nearly a year ago was ruled a suicide, according to an autopsy report from the Tennessee Department of Health.

D'Mario Perkins, 29, was fatally shot once in the head and then 9 other times during a traffic stop involving two Memphis police officers — David Reinke and Brandon Barnes — the autopsy report shows.

On July 25, 2018, Perkins was stopped on a traffic violation in the area of South Third Street and Mitchell Road in Whitehaven. Police reported he was making suicidal threats.

DA:No charges for MPD officers in Martavious Banks shooting

Perkins fired one shot and officers fired several others, according to the autopsy report.

Perkins was shot in the head, causing skull fractures and bleeding in the scalp and brain as the bullet traveled through the right and left sides of his head, according to the report.

The medical examiner ruled the shot to the head as self-inflicted and listed it as the cause of death, before the other nine shots were fired.

Help us power local journalism. Become a subscriber today.

Due to the nine other gunshot wounds, Perkins was shot in his torso, left shoulder, back, right shoulder and was grazed on his right ear, right side of his jaw, left eyelid, left eye and left elbow, according to the report.

No officers were injured during the shooting.

Brandon Webber shooting:Mother says son 'loved life' at Frayser vigil

The medical examiner said although the gunshot wound in the back has a high mortality rate, it is "potentially survivable."

Perkins' cousin, Kario Perkins, and other family members have denied that Perkins was suicidal at the time of the shooting.

Reinke submitted a letter of resignation to the Memphis Police Department on April 26 to work for his hometown police department, which was not identified.

His last day with the department was on May 5. Barnes has returned to full duty, according to MPD.

MPD Director Mike Rallings:Frayser unrest doesn't represent our community

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation completed an investigation of Perkins' shooting on May 15, and submitted its findings to the Shelby County District Attorney's Office. The office confirmed TBI's findings are being reviewed.

Kario Perkins said his family has heard little from authorities throughout the process of the investigation since his cousin's death.