Douglas Clark Amarillo Globe-News dclark@amarillo.com

A Potter County grand jury has determined the circumstances surrounding a fatal officer–involved shooting last month were appropriate.

“The grand jury found the officers acted appropriately,” 47th District Attorney Randall Sims said during a Wednesday morning media briefing. “There were three officers directly involved, but only one officer fired shots. They (grand jury) found they acted appropriately and did not violate any laws of the state of Texas.”

Officials said the hearing stemmed from a shooting that occurred July 25 at the America’s Best Value Inn at 3930 I-40 East as Amarillo police were searching for a man with a felony warrant for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Police said they observed a man, later identified as Jose Luis Rodriguez, leaving a room with a gun in his hand. Rodriguez attempted to hide behind a group of people, police said, would not drop the gun and was shot by an officer. Rodriguez died at the scene.

“The shooting was a result of the Amarillo Police Department being in the process of serving some warrants on some individuals, most of which had previously had weapons convictions,” Sims said. “They were able to identify one of the individuals was at a hotel on Interstate 40, the SWAT team was called out to help with the arrest and after doing surveillance for a couple of hours, eventually the individual was in position where they could attempt to make an arrest. Unfortunately, the gentleman pulled a weapon, the Amarillo Police Department was in a situation where they had a to respond because women and a baby were with the man and he was trying to use one of them for cover.”

Sims said two shots were fired.

“Both struck the defendant and he was pronounced dead at the scene,” Sims said. “Jose Rodriguez had been previously charged with felony possession of a firearm in the month of June and in July he had been caught twice with weapons as a convicted felon. He had charges pending for assault with a deadly weapon and that was the warrant officers were attempting to arrest him for.”

Sims said Rodriguez was pulling his weapon and moving to seek cover behind one of the women with him, noting the officer who fired the shots identified Rodriguez in possession of a .380 caliber handgun. There were three SWAT officers moving in to arrest the suspect, Sims said. He did not release the names of the officers involved, deferring to the APD.

Amarillo Police Chief Ed Drain extended gratitude to the district attorney’s office and grand jury for their due diligence in addressing the case.

“In Potter and Randall County our prosecutors do a very good job of getting these officer-involved shootings to the grand juries and on the docket quickly, because it’s important to the officers and their families these issues be resolved as quickly as they can,” he said during a media briefing at police headquarters on Wednesday afternoon. “I appreciate Mr. Sims’ energy, both he and his staff, in reviewing those cases.”

Sims offered praise to the SWAT team and the manner in which they handled the situation.

“We are fortunate to have folks who want to do that work,” he said. “It’s a very dangerous and stressful job that they do, even more so because they are the group tossed into the most burning fires. I just want to compliment the Amarillo Police Department and those guys for what they do for our city.”