Correction: A previous version of this story misstated Judge Monte Watkins' last name.

The trial of a white Nashville police officer facing murder charges after he fatally shot a Black man has been reset for early next year.

The trial had been set for March, but a scheduling conflict with an expert witness prompted Judge Monte Watkins to delay the proceedings until the summer. Then, precautions around COVID-19 delayed all jury trials.

Police officer Andrew Delke shot Daniel Hambrick, 25, three times in the back during a July 26, 2018 foot chase in North Nashville. Activists have cited Hambrick's death as a violent example of racial bias on the police force.

Delke, 26, is the first Nashville officer ever charged with murder after an on-duty shooting.

Jury selection for the trial is now scheduled to begin Feb. 15. The trial is expected to begin Feb. 22.

Feb. 15 is President's Day, a federal holiday.

The delay in jury trials because of the coronavirus pandemic is expected to last until at least September, as courts reckon with how to ensure safety for all involved.

'I miss my baby':Vigil held for Daniel Hambrick two years after fatal shooting by Nashville officer

Davidson County courts have created plans that allow a small number of cases to be heard. But a comprehensive plan hasn't been released yet on how the courts plan to call a juries, particularly in rooms not conducive to proper social distancing.

The Tennessee Supreme Court has declined to consider the defense team's motion to pull jurors from another part of the state.

District Attorney Glenn Funk, who is leading the prosecution, decided to pursue a criminal charge against the officer after reviewing evidence collected by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, including surveillance footage showing Delke stopping to aim and fire as Hambrick ran away.

The Fraternal Order of Police has rallied behind the officer. Delke's attorney David Raybin says the officer was following his police training.

Delke told investigators he was acting in self defense after he saw Hambrick aim at him with a handgun. Delke said he started shooting after Hambrick ignored commands to drop the gun.

Prosecutors don't dispute the fact that Hambrick was armed, but they say video footage of the chase never shows Hambrick turning to face Delke.

Brinley Hineman and Adam Tamburin contributed. Reach reporter Mariah Timms at mtimms@tennessean.com or 615-259-8344 and on Twitter @MariahTimms.