A man shot and killed by Lakemoor police after he allegedly pulled two weapons on officers Thursday morning was wanted in connection with the murder of an elderly man earlier this week in Pennsylvania, according to Lake County Major Crime Task Force.

Lake County Sheriff’s Office Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the task force, confirmed late Thursday that Kenneth Edwin Martell, 36, of Springboro, Penn., was a suspect in a murder that occurred overnight Monday in Crawford County Pennsylvania.

Advertisement

Lake County Coroner Howard Cooper said an autopsy Thursday afternoon showed Martell died from injuries sustained by a gunshot wound to the face. He added that toxicology reports are pending.

Lake County authorities were in contact with Pennsylvania State Police concerning their search for Martell, who was named in a murder warrant that was issued earlier this week, according to Trooper Cindy Schick of the Pennsylvania State Police.

Advertisement

Martell allegedly went to the home of 88-year-old Theodore Garver to rob him late Monday, but killed him and then forced three people at gunpoint to help him get rid of the body in a pond, according state police.

According to the Associated Press, an autopsy Wednesday on Garver showed he died of sharp-force injuries to the neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered his body Tuesday from the pond.

A Lake County Sheriff's Office squad car blocks the entrance to Four Seasons Boulevard near the scene of a police-involved shooting on July 26, 2018. (Dan Moran / News-Sun)

Thursday’s shooting began with an officer investigating a suspicious man in a vehicle in the small village of Lakemoor, on the border of Lake and McHenry counties. According to Covelli, the incident took place around 5 a.m. on a gravel road off Four Seasons Boulevard near the Lakemoor Country Club that leads into the Meadows Apartments off of west Sullivan Lake Road.

“The Lakemoor Officer exited her squad car to check on the vehicle and adult male occupant,” Covelli wrote in a statement. “While the Lakemoor Officer was speaking to the man, he produced a handgun. A struggle ensued between the man and the Lakemoor Officer.

“During the struggle, a second Lakemoor Officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he observed the offender was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor Officers fired at the man.”

Covelli added that Martell was struck by gunfire and subsequently pronounced dead at the scene.

“Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an officer-involved shooting," Covelli said at the scene.

According to Covelli, the Lakemoor officers were equipped with body cameras, but that evidence would not be immediately available as the investigation proceeds.

Advertisement

Officer-involved shootings are investigated by the task force, and then findings are forwarded to the Lake County State’s Attorney’s Office for review.