Jan Skutch

jskutch@savannahnow.com

A Savannah man was indicted Wednesday on felony murder charges in the July 27 death of his grandmother, who was a bystander during an exchange of gunfire with police, and with aggravated assault on two officers in the exchange.

Chantz Alexander Cooper, 20, also was indicted by the Chatham County grand jury in connection with an earlier armed robbery attempt and aggravated assault nearby on Newcastle Street that prompted police to be looking for him.

The victim, Cynthia Ann Fields, was inside her Stratford Street home when she was struck by a gunshot and subsequently died at the scene. Cooper also was shot.

No officers were injured.

And the grand jury, in a related civil finding, determined that “eight or more members present did not recommend that a committee of grand jurors be formed to investigate the circumstance surrounding the shooting of Cynthia Ann Fields by a Savannah police officer.”

In indicting Cooper, the grand jury said he committed felony murder in Fields’ death by shooting at police officers Sgt. Robert Mowers and officer Joseph Altomare while they were engaged in the lawful discharge of their duties.

They also charged Cooper with two counts of aggravated assault on police officers Mowers and Altomare in the Fields shooting

The grand jury also indicted Cooper with criminal attempt to commit armed robbery against Felton Schley on July 27 by pointing a firearm at the victim and demanding his money.

Additionally, they indicted Cooper for aggravated assault by shooting Schley, criminal attempt to commit murder by standing over Schley and shooting him as he was lying on the ground, and aggravated battery by causing a scar to his face, fractures to his ribs and shoulder blade and damage to his lung.

The indictment also included multiple charges of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony. Cooper was indicted on a charge of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon based on convictions for obstruction of an officer in Baldwin County on Sept. 30, 2016.

And, Cooper was indicted as a repeat offender stemming from the Baldwin County crimes.