Jeff Parrott

South Bend Tribune

MISHAWAKA — A motorcyclist killed in a crash while eluding police on May 26 had far outrun an officer, who won’t face criminal charges in the incident, St. Joseph County Prosecutor Ken Cotter announced Monday.

When he crashed the motorcycle on Jefferson Boulevard near Wyland’s Marine and a Village Pantry, John M. Williams, 46, was so far ahead of Mishawaka police Patrolman Andrew Sark, about a quarter-mile, that the crash cannot be seen on the dashcam video.

“After speaking with witnesses and reviewing the evidence, (the St. Joseph County Fatal Crash Team) determined that the motorcycle traveled at high rates of speed, disregarded traffic control devices, and did not stop after Patrolman Sark activated the lights in his marked squad car,” according to a news release issued by FACT. “At the time of the crash, Sark was a substantial distance from the motorcycle.”

The video dispels speculation from Williams’ supporters on Facebook that an officer must have “bumped” the motorcycle, forcing it to crash, said Mishawaka police Chief Kenneth Witkowski.

The Mishawaka Police Department’s “Vehicle Operation, Pursuit and Emergency Response” policy states that, “Officers engaged in pursuit shall at all times drive in a manner exercising due regard for the safety of themselves and all other persons and property within the pursuit area.”

“By looking at that video, I’ve seen nothing that would make me believe he did something wrong according to our (standard operating procedures),” Witkowski said of Sark.

Witkowski said he did not know the top speeds reached by Sark or Williams.

Sark, 34, having been hired in November 2016, has never been disciplined for anything in the past, police said. In February, he received a commendation for saving the life of a crash victim, Witkowski said.

Meanwhile, in a case that sparked the pursuit, Williams’ passenger, Rebecca Mack, 41, who did not suffer life-threatening injuries, was charged Friday with misdemeanor battery, alleging she assaulted another woman in The Phoenix Bar & Grill. Police were called to the bar shortly after 1 a.m. Saturday on a report of an assault. By the time police arrived at The Phoenix, Williams and Mack had left for another nearby bar, police said.

The couple soon found The 100 Center-area bar they headed to was too busy, police said. As officers were interviewing Mack’s alleged victim outside The Phoenix, she noticed Williams and Mack, who were stopped at a red light, facing eastbound, at the corner of Main Street and Lincoln Way, where The Phoenix is located, police said.

The woman pointed them out to police, prompting Sark to jump in his patrol car and follow the motorcycle east on Lincoln Way. Sark caught up to Williams as he turned north on to Cedar Street from Lincoln Way East, police said. Near the corner of Mishawaka Avenue and Willow Street, Sark activated his flashing lights and attempted to pull over Williams, but Williams kept going.

Williams headed north on Willow Street, and turned east again on Jefferson Boulevard, according to the video.

Williams’ friends have criticized police on Facebook for engaging in a high-speed pursuit when Williams wasn’t suspected of committing a crime and Mack had only been in a bar fight.

“Well it’s a misdemeanor offense,” Witkowski said of Mack’s alleged battery in the bar, “and when we try to talk to her and they take off… I don’t have the paperwork yet but I was led to believe that the officer called out, ‘Hey I need to talk to you,’ and they proceeded to take off. This guy did not have to leave. Later we found out, one of the reasons probably, was he had this warrant.”

Mishawaka police division chief of services, Russell Hainbaugh, said police on the scene “knew more about him than her” at the time, and knew Williams by name.

“That was the reason for the stop, to identify her, for the report,” Hainbaugh said. “Once they activate lights and initiate the traffic stop and he flees, he commits a felony. So he actually committed an offense worse than the offense she committed that we wanted to interview her about.”

Mack’s alleged victim told police that Mack, Williams’ current girlfriend, hit her in the face, angry because she had kissed Williams, a friend “from a long time ago,” on the cheek while saying “hello,” according to an officer’s report.

The Tribune asked Hainbaugh whether Williams’ refusal to stop justified the pursuit. He likened the scenario to a person riding up on a motorcycle and shoving your grandmother to the ground as she is walking out of a grocery store.

“There’s two officers sitting right there,” Hainbaugh said. “They should just let the guy go? Or should they pursue him and find out, what’s the reason for this? Why did he shove her to the ground?”