LAKEWOOD - Two people died in a fiery crash near Massachusetts Avenue and Cross Street after fleeing police from Toms River into Lakewood Thursday night, according to the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office.

Toms River police had tried to pull the car over because it was connected to a shooting in Lakewood earlier in the day, according to the announcement.

Rynell Bennett, 29, of Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, and a 16-year-old Gloucester boy were killed in the crash, according to a statement from Al Della Fave, a spokesman for the Prosecutor's Office. See more footage from the crash scene in the video below, or scroll up to see more.

Toms River police Officer Kyle Lamar tried to pull over a red 2016 Ford Focus minutes before 7 p.m., Della Fave said. Not only was the car tied to a shooting, but Bennett, who was driving, "was not wearing a seat belt, and the registration for the vehicle came back suspended," Della Fave said.

EARLIER: Police pursuit ends in crash, car fire

Bennett did not stop, and Lamar gave chase, "but fearing for the public's safety terminated his pursuit after the fleeing vehicle ran a red light at the intersection of Route 70 and Massachusetts Avenue near the Lakewood Township border," Della Fave said.

Lamar continued into Lakewood and soon found the Focus, which was on fire after crashing into a tree, Della Fave said. Lamar and another Toms River officer, Thomas Elwood, managed to extricate Bennett, who was trapped inside. They carried him across the street and tried to revive him, but he and the teen were pronounced dead, Della Fave said. Medics and Lakewood police officers also rendered first aid.

Lamar and Elwood went to Community Medical Center in Toms River where they were treated for smoke inhalation and released, Della Fave said.

Crash investigators determined the car was moving north on Massachusetts Avenue "at a high rate of speed when the vehicle lost directional control and collided into a tree located on the southbound side of the roadway," Della Fave said.

The car also blew through a red light at Massachusetts and Cross "prior to crossing into the southbound lane, continuing into a wooded area coming to final rest into the tree," Della Fave said.

Further details on the shooting were not available Friday.

The Prosecutor's Office's Fatal Accidents Support Team, crime scene investigators from the Ocean County Sheriff's Office and the Ocean County Medical Examiner's Office also went to the crash scene, Della Fave said.

Alex N. Gecan: @GeeksterTweets; 732-643-4043; agecan@gannettnj.com