Billy Marts, Correspondent

ABERDEEN -- A local 22-year-old man died when his vehicle struck a tree during a police pursuit that started in Southern Pines and ended on U.S. 1 between Aberdeen and Pinebluff on Friday night.

The man was identified as 22-year-old Shonquelle Davare Barrett, law enforcement said.

N.C. State Highway Patrol officers were operating a checkpoint on Morganton Road when shortly after 10 p.m. a male driving a Honda Accord that was in the line at the checkpoint backed up before crossing the center line and driving from the checkpoint on Morganton Road headed toward Pinehurst, law enforcement said.

A trooper began pursuit of the vehicle as it proceeded up Morganton Road before cutting across Monticello Drive and Blake Boulevard to reach N.C. 5, where Barrett turned left heading toward Aberdeen and then made a right onto Sandpit Road, law enforcement said. The vehicle then turned onto Roseland Road before turning onto Bachelor Farm Road and then onto U.S. 1 heading northbound toward Aberdeen.

The chase had proceeded with top speeds between 60 and 80 miles per hour at various points of the pursuit.

According to a trooper at the scene as the vehicle was approaching Aberdeen, the decision was made to use a PIT maneuver, or pursuit intervention technique, to attempt to stop the vehicle before it reached the busier intersections ahead in Aberdeen. The PIT maneuver is a pursuit tactic by which a pursuing car can force a fleeing car to abruptly turn sideways, causing the driver to lose control and stop.

A trooper who had been in pursuit of the vehicle since the chase was started initiated a PIT maneuver, causing the Honda Accord passenger car to lose control and slide sideways into a tree.

CPR was immediately started by law enforcement officers at the scene until EMS paramedics and firefighters could reach the scene minutes after the accident occurred.

Barrett was pronounced dead at the scene of the accident.

Both northbound lanes of U.S. 1 were closed to traffic for an extended period while the wreck scene was investigated by officials with the State Highway Patrol and the N.C. State Bureau of Investigation.

Responding were units with Aberdeen Fire & Rescue, Moore County EMS, Aberdeen Police Department, N.C. Medical Examiner’s Office, the SBI and the N.C. State Highway Patrol.

The incident remains under investigation.

Crime stories from the Fayetteville region:

Crime Time