Yankton police say their officers operated within the scope of the department's pursuit policy prior to a crash that killed five people last week.

Yankton Police Department's interim chief, John Harris, said that an officer attempted to pull over Michael Worlie of Sioux Falls when he observed his car driving at a high rate of speed early on the morning of July 4.

At some point during the pursuit Worlie, 29, turned off his car's headlights and crossed into the oncoming lane, where Harris said he drove for "some distance" before crashing head-on into another car. Harris did not provide details of Yankton's pursuit policy.

Worlie was driving an Acura Integra east of Yankton on Highway 50 at approximately 1:20 a.m. when the fatal collision occurred, according to the South Dakota Highway Patrol.

Both Worlie and his passenger, 27-year-old Joshua Odens of Sioux Falls, were killed along with three occupants from the other car. These included the driver, 40-year-old Tawna Lichty-Reineke, and passengers Chad Reineke, 43, and Janicka Luschen, 10, all from Yankton. A fourth passenger, 12-year-old Tirany Luschen, survived the crash.

MORE:She was critically injured in a crash that killed 5. Now, she's learning to walk again.

A statewide background check shows that Worlie was fined $120 in May for driving with a suspended license. From 2007 onward, he also had convictions related to a spate of other charges, including reckless driving, driving under the influence, driving without a license and grand theft.

In the past, South Dakota law enforcement officials have cited the need to weigh potential public safety concerns during a chase with the danger a suspect might pose if not pursued.

The Sioux Falls Police Department revised its chase policy three years ago. Spokesman Sam Clemens said at the time that instead of looking for reasons to terminate pursuits, officers must seek justification to start them.

“If we are going to pursue, there needs to be a clear and continuance of danger to the public,” Clemens said. “Most cases that will mean the suspect has committed or attempted to commit a dangerous felony that involves some type of deadly force.”