Crime & Safety Young Dad Dies Of Injuries From Motorcyclist Hitting His Car Eric Larson, 24, of Jackson died three weeks after the crash that happened when Anthony Griffin fled police, authorities and friends said. Reply

JACKSON, NJ — A Jackson Township man has died of his injuries three weeks after he was injured when his car was hit by an unlicensed motorcyclist who was fleeing police.

Eric Larson, 24, died Friday, said Al Della Fave, spokesman for the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office, which was notified by the Jackson Township Police Department of his death. Danielle Godsil, who is best friends with Larson's fiancee, Taylor Bromberg, posted an update to the GoFundme campaign created to help with Larson's medical bills, saying, "After 3 long weeks and fighting with all of his strength, today Eric gained his angel wings. He fought so hard with such unbelievable strength. Please continue to pray to help Eric’s family get through the hardest time they will ever face."

Larson was on his way home to Bromberg and their two daughters the night of July 5 when his car was hit by Anthony Griffin, 22, of Jackson. As Larson pulled out of Oak Drive, turning left onto South New Prospect Road, his car was hit broadside as Griffin was fleeing a Jackson Township police officer who tried to pull him over less than a minute earlier. Griffin, who had run a red light, was driving the motorcycle well in excess of 80 mph at the time of the crash, Della Fave said when the prosecutor's office released the dashcam video of the brief chase. The police officer was going 82 mph as Griffin sped away out of sight on South New Prospect Road, and as he rounded the curve near Oak Road, hit Larson as he pulled out.

The impact of the red 2004 Yamaha 999 on the driver's side door of Larson's gray 2008 Hyundai Elantra brought the car to a stop on the shoulder, facing north on South New Prospect. Griffin died at the scene. Larson was taken to Jersey Shore University Medical Center. Della Fave said Griffin, who had a lengthy history of motor vehicle violations, did not have a license to drive a motorcycle, which is a separate endorsement in New Jersey. The motorcycle was not registered or insured, and had fictitious license plates. (Read more: Man Killed In Jackson Crash Lacked Motorcycle License: Prosecutor)



Larson was "the father and stepdad to two beautiful little girls," Godsil wrote when she created the GoFundme campaign. In addition to the medical bills, the crash destroyed the family's car, leaving Bromberg unable to get to her job.