Paul Woolverton

pwoolverton@fayobserver.com

A lawsuit against the Fayetteville Police Department and a police officer accuses the officer of typing on his police cruiser’s computer and driving at an excessive speed just before he struck and killed a pedestrian on Raeford Road in July 2018.

The Police Department counters that the pedestrian, 55-year-old Gregory Graham of Fayetteville, was drunk and stepped in front of the police car. It denies the accusation that the officer was typing while driving and that he was driving excessively fast.

The suit was filed in June by Graham’s estate. It makes claims of negligence, gross negligence and wrongful death against Officer Ashton Lambert and the Police Department. The suit seeks at least $25,000 in damages for each of those.

Get the news delivered to your inbox: Sign up for our daily and weekly newsletters

Court documents filed in June, August and September provide a narrative of what happened in the crash and where each side disagrees on the details.

The crash happened at 11:53 p.m. on July 18, 2018, as Lambert drove in the middle westbound lane of Raeford Road near Sandalwood Drive.

Raeford Road had eight lanes near the intersection, according to Google Street View and Google Maps. These included six travel lanes (three in each direction) and two turn lanes.

Graham’s filings say he walked with a cane. His paperwork says he crossed the three eastbound traffic lanes, stopped in the center of the street (which would either be a center turn lane or a left-turn lane, depending on his proximity to Sandalwood Drive), looked both ways to determine that traffic was clear, then attempted to walk the rest of the way across.

Lambert hit Graham as he was crossing.

The court papers say Lambert was responding to a 911 call — a domestic disturbance in which a weapon was involved. He was driving faster than the 45 mph speed limit but had not activated his siren or police lights when he hit Graham, Graham’s complaint says. A tracking system used to monitor police cars indicated Lambert was driving 58 mph less than a minute before hitting Graham, the complaint says, and 53 mph at the point of impact.

Graham would have seen and heard Lambert coming and stopped had Lambert used his police lights and siren, Graham’s paperwork says.

Lambert was not required under the circumstances to activate the lights or siren, the Police Department’s response says. His headlights were on, it says.

The Graham complaint says Lambert admitted to another officer investigating the crash that he had looked at his car’s computer screen for a split second — police cars have laptop computers mounted next to the driver’s seat to assist the officers in their work — then looked up and struck Graham.

The Police Department’s response to the lawsuit says Lambert looked at the computer screen 20 seconds before the crash to consult a map. The department denies Lambert looked at the screen just before the crash.

The word “Are” had been typed into the computer, “thereby evidencing that Officer Lambert was attempting to type while driving as well,” Graham’s complaint says.

The department’s response says “Are” was the beginning of a message that Lambert started, but never finished, earlier that night in relation to another law enforcement call. The response says Lambert was not typing while driving.

The complaint alleges that Lambert swerved out of his lane 17 seconds before the collision and again 4 seconds before the collision. At the last instant, the complaint says, Lambert veered to the left to try to avoid Graham, but it was too late.

The Police Department says Lambert moved toward the side of his lane but never left the lane until the last second when he was trying to avoid hitting Graham.

The Police Department’s version of the events says Lambert could not avoid the crash and that Graham shares the blame.

The department’s filing says “Graham was extremely intoxicated at the time, and suddenly darted in front of Officer Lambert’s patrol vehicle in the dark of night as Officer Lambert was traveling in the middle westbound lane of Raeford Road” and Graham was attempting to cross at a place without a crosswalk.

Graham’s case contends Lambert had the last clear opportunity to avoid the crash and so he is solely responsible, and that because of his use of a cane to walk, he “could not have physically darted into the westbound lanes of Raeford Road without warning, suddenly or unexpected.”

The issue of whether responsibility is shared is key to whether Graham's estate can prevail or the Police Department can fend off the lawsuit. North Carolina’s litigation law has a standard called contributory negligence. If a jury concludes that Graham has any share of the responsibility for the crash — if it decides he is 1% at fault and Lambert is 99% at fault — then Graham doesn’t get any compensation.

The Police Department is attempting to get the case dismissed based on several grounds, including sovereign and governmental immunity — these are the constitutional and common law provisions that the government may not be sued. However, there are exceptions to this.

Staff writer Paul Woolverton can be reached at pwoolverton@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3512.