OROVILLE — A recent court filing in the case of a Chico police chase that ended with a suspect crashing her car and dying last month in Butte Creek Canyon, has shed more light on the incident.

According to the court filing, the suspect, who has previously been identified as 21-year-old Madeline Lynch of Chico, was driving a black Dodge Durango that had been reported stolen out of Sacramento and led officers on a chase along Honey Run Road.

Lynch subsequently drove off the roadway and crashed down an embankment near Butte Creek, according to the filing. She was ejected from the vehicle and died from injuries suffered in the crash.

Chico police have said Lynch drove about three miles along eastbound Honey Run Road before leaving the roadway and crashing into a tree. She died on the scene.

The recent court filing, a petition filed by parole officials alleging another suspect in the case, 41-year-old Alex Cabral of Chico, violated the terms of his parole by participating in criminal conduct, laid out the sequence of events leading to Lynch’s fatal crash.

According to the filing, an unmarked Chico police patrol vehicle about 1:10 a.m. July 22 noticed a mid ’90s Honda Accord driving east on East First Avenue behind the black Dodge Durango.

The Honda was followed onto Highway 99 and the car came back clear to Cabral, according to the filing. The Honda was also observed following close behind the Dodge and “mirroring its movements.”

The unmarked police car passed the Honda and checked the license plate of the Dodge, which came back reported stolen July 2 out of Sacramento, according to the filing.

“Due to training and experience,” according to the court filing, “officers know that when criminal vehicles travel together the car in the rear will commonly be a chase car with a car in front holding contraband.”

Additional Chico police officers were called to stop both vehicles, and both the Honda and Dodge initially yielded to officers on Skyway near Dominic Drive, according to the filing and previous police accounts.

Both cars, however, subsequently accelerated on Skyway, according to the filing. The Honda driven by Cabral pulled over after passing Dominic Drive and officers conducted a felony stop on the car.

The Dodge continued driving, turning onto eastbound Honey Run Road before crashing down an embankment near Butte Creek, leading to Lynch’s death.

According to the filing, which alleges Cabral conspired with Lynch and also evaded police, Cabral claimed that he was just following his girlfriend back to her house when an unmarked Chevrolet Tahoe began following him.

Cabral appeared Friday in Butte County Superior Court to admit or deny the alleged violation of parole, but he did not immediately enter an admission or denial.

A court commissioner continued the matter to Aug. 17.

Cabral, who is on parole for a 2011 conviction of possession of a controlled substance for sale, remained in custody without bail.