Update at 12:50 p.m., Tuesday

The Stockton man who was killed Saturday following a shootout with a Tehama County sheriff's deputy died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, the sheriff's office said Tuesday.

An autopsy was performed Tuesday on Jose Alfredo Barajas, 29, who was the suspect in the deputy-involved shooting in Los Molinos, the sheriff's office said.

The autopsy determined his cause of death was a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.

There were also several wounds found on him that were consistent with him being involved with the shooting deputy, the sheriff's office said.

The investigation is continuing and is soon expected to be wrapped up.

The office said the deputy, as well as his ride-along passenger, are continuing to recover.

Original story

Tehama County sheriff's detectives and others continued Monday to try to unravel the circumstances of a Saturday shooting that left a deputy and a woman with him wounded, the suspected gunman who was later killed following a traffic wreck was identified as a Stockton resident.

Jose Alfredo Barajas, 29, died after the 2018 Honda Accord he was driving to elude capture crashed off Interstate 5 near Hooker Creek Road north of Red Bluff as he was being pursued by law enforcement.

Sheriff's Detective Robert L. Bakken said Monday he and others are still trying to figure out exactly what happened.

But he said, the sheriff's deputy who suffered at least two bullet wounds in a gunfire exchange and his ride-along-passenger, a non-sworn member of the sheriff's office who was also shot, are in "good spirits" at an area hospital and are expected to make a full recovery.

Bakken declined to identify them.

An autopsy was set Monday afternoon for Barajas to try to determine the cause of his death, Bakken said, adding he did not know if the Stockton man had been shot in the earlier gunfire exchange or had died as a result of the crash

The frightening shooting and crash began to unfold around 7:30 p.m. Saturday when the sheriff's deputy spotted Barajas in the parking lot outside the Dollar General in Los Molinos switching the license plates on the new car

Bakken said the sheriff's deputy, who was suspicious, made contact with Barajas while his ride-along passenger stayed in the sheriff's patrol sports utility vehicle.

After about five minutes, Bakken said, Barajas pulled a rifle from the Honda and began firing, prompting the deputy seek cover and return fire.

Bakken said the patrol SUV was riddled with bullets.

Barajas got into the Honda and sped away, traveling north on Highway 99 East and then on Antelope Boulevard before going north Interstate 5.

Bakken said pursuing officers attempted to catch up to the Honda to perform a traffic stop, but could not get close enough.

As it continued northbound on I-5, it crashed near Hooker Creek Road.

The rifle, as well as a handgun, were recovered from the wreckage, Bakken said.

Sheriff's officials had originally thought two people fled the scene in the Honda, but on Sunday, after interviewing witnesses, the deputy involved and reviewing video surveillance footage, they concluded there was only one suspect involved in the shooting.

The California Department of Justice is assisting in the investigation, which is being headed by the Tehama County District Attorney's Office Bureau of Investigation.

A spokeswoman there Monday referred questions about the incident to the Sheriff's Office, which is asking anyone with information about the shooting to call 529-7920.

The deputy-involved shooting was the second since last month.

In June, a distraught and suicidal 34-year-old Los Molinos man who had threatened to kill himself was shot and killed by a sheriff's sergeant when he pointed a rifle at law enforcement officers south of Red Bluff.

Read:UPDATED: Price tag on Siskiyou County fire reaches $13.2 million

Read:Police seek public's help in finding missing teen

Read:Driver eludes deputies after high-speed chase