The Glendale Police Department is investigating after a suspect was killed and a K9 injured in a shootout.

According to police, Glendale officers including a police K9 and human partner were working with a US Marshals task force to apprehend a fugitive in the area of 24th Street and Baseline.

Around 5:30 p.m., police said the suspect, later identified as 23-year-old Skyler Martin, ran from officers and jumped a wall, where he was confronted by the K9 and officer.

Martin fired, striking the K9, officials said.The officer fired back, injuring Martin who died at the scene.

The K9 was taken to a veterinarian and is expected to survive, according to Glendale police Sgt. John Roth.

The neighborhood where the shooting happened was still blocked off as of 9:15 p.m. and neighbors would be allowed back home slowly.

The incident marks the 57th officer-involved shooting in the Valley this year, and the second involving a police K9.

RELATED: Funeral plans released for DPS Trooper shot and killed in the line of duty

In April, K9 Bane with the Phoenix Police Department was killed trying to apprehend two vehicle theft suspects after a pursuit that wound its way through the Valley.

Martin walked away from an off-site Arizona Department of Corrections work crew at the Maricopa County Animal Shelter in February. His orange AZDOC clothing was located at the shelter near 27th Avenue and Lower Buckeye Road.

Statewide, 3,000 inmates are involved in work assignments. Martin is the only inmate in 2018 to walk away from an assignment.

He was sentenced April 7, 2017, to 7.5 years behind bars for an aggravated DUI conviction. Martin had an extensive prior criminal history including theft, burglary, marijuana violation, narcotic drug violation, drug paraphernalia violation, assault, vehicle theft and promoting prison contraband.

The injured K9 is expected to make a full recovery, a Glendale police spokeswoman said. The K9 is a 6-year-old Belgian Malinois who has been with the GPD for four years.

The identities of the officer and K9 involved are not being released during the investigation.