TUCSON, AZ (Tucson News Now) - A man is dead after an hours-long standoff ended when officers fired on the man after he exited a south-side home carrying two handguns early on Wednesday, Aug. 1.

The man, identified as 53-year-old David Judge, had already fired several rounds inside the home in the 6100 block of South Earp Wash Lane, near Alvernon and Valencia. According to police spokesman Sgt. Pete Dugan, a relative of Judge was able to get out of the home safely.

Officers from the Tucson Police Department were called to the scene at about 6:30 on Tuesday night, and neighboring homes were evacuated.

Hostage negotiators and a SWAT team were called to the scene and worked for several hours trying to talk him out of the house.

Photographer Angelo and I are scrubbing through the footage you’ll only see tonight on @TucsonNewsNow. A neighbor captured Tuesday night’s SWAT standoff in #Tucson that ended with a suspect dead in a @Tucson_Police officer-involved shooting >> https://t.co/sdZgj4acJa pic.twitter.com/cKKQn377zQ — Evan Schreiber (@SchreiberEvan) August 2, 2018

Footage captured by Raquel Contreras, a neighbor, showed the moments the SWAT team used an explosive device at the front door of the home. Judge came out moments later, around midnight.

"Here! I'm here!" Judge appears to yell, as he walks out of the home.

"Keep walking backwards, buddy. You're doing great. We're here to help you," a TPD negotiator appears to say on video, trying to calmly coax Judge to the ground. "Dave, I'll tell you what, Dave. How about you go to your knees right there and lay down. Put your hands out to your side."

But the footage shows Judge not fully following along as he walks backwards down the driveway. A closer look at the footage appears to show Judge making a sudden, quick movement towards his body and pointing at police.

The camera captures the sound of six gunshots from an officer.

Judge was shot by Detective David Ortiz, a 13-year-veteran of the TPD. Officers said Judge came out of the house armed with two handguns but did not say that he fired a shot towards police.

Medical personnel pronounced Judge dead at the scene. Nobody else was hurt in this incident.

Detective Ortiz has been placed on administrative leave as is protocol for a shooting.

Anyone with information about this incident is asked to call 88-CRIME. Additional details will be released as they become available.

Copyright 2018 Tucson News Now. All rights reserved.