HEREFORD, TX (KFDA) - The Texas Rangers are now investigating an officer involved shooting in Hereford that involved the Amarillo Police SWAT team.

Johnathan Mendoza, 35, has been identified as the suspect who was shot and killed by police last night.

Mendoza was wanted by the Amarillo Police Department on several dangerous warrants, including aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, impeding breath or circulation, and terroristic threat.

With the assistance of other law enforcement agencies, Amarillo police were able to track Mendoza to Hereford.

"[The Amarillo Police] SWAT team had been looking for [Mendoza in Amarillo]," said Amarillo Police Cpl. Jeb Hilton."Through the investigation, [officers] determined he was at a residence in Hereford, which led that investigation over there."

Get the latest Amarillo news straight to your phone! Apple | Android

Police located Mendoza inside a home in the 200 block of 6th Avenue.

Due to the multiple warrants, Mendoza was considered a dangerous threat. The APD SWAT team was called in to try and bring the situation to a peaceful end.

Neighbors were told by law enforcement to stay inside their homes.

"When officers were on scene, the male did exit the rear of the residence holding a firearm," said Cpl. Hilton. "When he saw officers in the back, he ran around to the front of the residence and was confronted by other officers. When he saw the officers, he did present the firearm at the officers and was shot and killed by the APD SWAT officers."

One neighbor described hearing roughly four shots.

Once the Texas Rangers conclude their investigation, their notes on the shooting will be passed on to Deaf Smith County District Attorney Jim English.

District Attorney English will then review the case and check to see if a further investigation is needed.

"I believe, especially in law enforcement involved shootings, there is usually a pretty thorough investigation," said District Attorney English. "Personally, I would be surprised if I had to send information back requesting additional work."

After English concludes his review, the case is passed on to the grand jury.

"What the function of the grand jury is, is to look at the state's evidence, decide whether there's enough evidence to charge someone with a felony offense. If they feel like there is, then they'll sign an indictment, charging someone with a crime."

At this point, there is no timeline for when the Texas Rangers will conclude their investigation.

Copyright 2018 KFDA. All rights reserved.