Sun-News reports

LAS CRUCES - Third Judicial District Attorney Mark D'Antonio has cleared a Las Cruces police officer of possible wrongdoing in the August shooting death of 29-year-old Las Crucen James Bishop.

Also, Las Cruces police revealed for the first time the name of the officer who shot Bishop, as well the name of a second officer who was struck by a bat wielded by Bishop.

In a letter dated Oct. 17, 2018, District Attorney Mark D'Antonio states: "After an extensive review of this case we have concluded that the shooting by Officer Jason Hayes was justified under New Mexico law. This office will not be taking any action against this officer."

Looking back

The shooting occurred about 10:30 p.m. on Friday, Aug. 3, after Las Cruces police were dispatched to a disturbance at Bishop’s home on the 1900 block of Arlington Avenue. Bishop’s father told the first two arriving officers that his son was inside the home and armed with a baseball bat. Bishop's mother was also inside the home, where she barricaded herself in a bedroom after her son threatened to kill her.

The first officer to enter the home, officer Catrina Ornelas, drew her Taser. As she approached a hallway, within a few seconds of entering the home, the bat-wielding Bishop rapidly closed distance on her, police said in a news release.

Video from Ornelas' lapel camera shows Bishop approach with the baseball bat raised. Ornelas deployed her Taser, but it was ineffective. Bishop swung the bat, striking Ornelas.

Hayes, who entered the home right behind Ornelas, saw Bishop swing the bat at Ornelas and that Bishop raised the baseball bat once again.

"Hayes then fired multiple rounds that struck Bishop and ended the attack on officer Ornelas," a city news release states.

Bishop, who had a mental illness, was pronounced dead on scene. Ornelas was treated at a local hospital and released. The weapon Bishop used was determined to be an aluminum baseball bat.

2nd year officer

Hayes, employed by the Las Cruces Police Department for two years, was placed on administrative leave, which is standard protocol for the department. He has since returned to duty.

Las Cruces police officers have shot at suspects in six different incidents this year, including three times in one month. In four of those incidents, Las Cruces police killed the suspect. LCPD Police Chief Patrick Gallagher has said he's concerned by the trend.