This is the moment a rape suspect was shot dead by police after a 16-hour standoff in which he told officers he 'wished to die'.

Danzel Jamal Boyd, 28, was shot multiple times by two SWAT officers around 1pm on August 4 in the bathroom of a home behind the Stratosphere hotel, in Las Vegas.

Police were called to the scene around 9pm the day before after a woman said she had been kidnapped and raped by Boyd before he ran into the apartment.

SWAT officers in Las Vegas shot and killed 28-year-old Danzel Jamal Boyd around 1pm on August 4 after a 16-hour armed standoff (pictured, officers breach his apartment)

Boyd fired several shots at officers during the standoff before barricading himself inside the bathroom and telling police he 'wished to die' (pictured left, Boyd in the bathtub)

When officers arrived the woman told them that Boyd was inside with another adult male and a juvenile, so they set up a perimeter around the building.

Cops managed to call Boyd on a cellphone and asked him to come outside.

A short time later, the second adult and juvenile emerged from the building, but Boyd refused to leave.

Instead Boyd, who had a lengthy criminal history including rape and assault with a deadly weapon, fired shots at officers around 2am.

Police were called after a woman accused Boyd of abducting and raping her before running inside the apartment

A SWAT team was called to the scene along with negotiators who managed to make contact with Boyd several more times.

Despite their insistence that Boyd come out and give himself up he refused, saying that he wanted to die.

Officers tried to use several 'distraction devices' including gas to flush Boyd out, but he remained barricaded inside the bathroom.

Around 1pm the SWAT team entered the apartment and 15 minutes later they breached the bathroom door and sent a dog in to disarm Boyd.

Officer James Ferrante 35, a 10-year veteran of the force, and Officer William Marx, 48, a 21-year veteran, followed the dog into the room in an attempt to arrest Boyd.

But he still had hold of a handgun and raised it toward the officers as the entered.

Ferrante fired six shots from his Glock pistol while Marx fired two shots from his Colt rifle, hitting Boyd multiple times.

As officers entered the bathroom Boyd raised a handgun he was holding towards police (circled) who fired eight times, killing him

The shooting happened at this apartment behind the Stratosphere Casino in Las Vegas

He was treated by the doctor on scene, but died from his wounds.

Police later found Boyd had been in possession of two weapons - a Smith and Wesson handgun and a Tec 9 machine-pistol - both of which were fired at officers during the standoff.

Boyd's criminal record showed he was jailed seven times for felony offences while still a juvenile.

As an adult, he was jailed in 2008/9 for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, robbery and felon in possession of a concealed weapon in 2014, and then rape and assault with 2015.