Eliot Kleinberg

ekleinberg@pbpost.com

DELRAY BEACH - City police officers who fatally shot a man in August 2018 were justified in their use of force, according to a Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigation.

Early on Aug. 4, 2018, Delray Beach police said at the time, John Randolph threatened his mother with a handgun inside his parents' residence on the 600 block of West Drive, south of Atlantic Avenue and west of Interstate 95.

Then Randolph barricaded himself before running outside with a gun at about 7:45 a.m.

According to the FDLE report, officers Christine Suarez and Tremayne Barnes shot Randolph, then 38, after he had brandished the semi-automatic Smith & Wesson handgun.

Randolph was declared dead 15 minutes later, the report said.

"The officers' use of deadly force was objectively reasonable under the circumstances and therefore, lawful," Palm Beach County State Attorney Dave Aronberg wrote to Delray Beach police on April 16, according to the FDLE report.

Suarez has been with Delray Beach police for 14 years, while Barnes joined the department in January 2018.

The report says by the time officers arrived at the home at about 7:15 a.m., Randolph's parents had fled. Randolph had barricaded himself inside, shouting and refusing to cooperate with officers, telling them, "You aren't the real police," and "You're fake cops."

The parents later confirmed Randolph had had drug and mental-health issues, and that during the ordeal, he had held a gun to his mother's head.

Investigators determined Suarez fired seven times and Barnes fired eight. An autopsy determined Randolph was struck 11 times and that two of the shots were fatal.

Court records show Randolph was arrested in May 2018 on charges of battery on a person age 65 or older and unlawfully possessing a prescription drug. Prosecutors chose not to pursue charges.

The shooting was the first involving Delray Beach officers since 2010, when a SWAT officer shot and wounded a man during a raid on an alleged crack house.

Staff writer Julius Whigham II contributed to this story.

@eliotkpbp