Frank Fernandez

frank.fernandez@news-jrnl.com

Volusia County sheriff's deputy Brandon Watson told investigators that before he shot and killed a drunk husband who had threatened his wife, the deputy felt vulnerable and isolated as he confronted two men on a staircase, according to a newly released report of the incident.

Watson was outside of a Seville home investigating a domestic disturbance call Aug. 3 when he shot Emmanuel Alquisiras seven times, according to the documents which clear him in the fatal shooting of one of those men.

After a tense confrontation and struggle which lasted several minutes Watson shot and killed the 29-year-old Alquisiras. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigated and forwarded its report to the State Attorney’s Office, which found no further action was warranted.

Watson had already shot his Taser once, hitting Alquisiras in the back but the man continued resisting despite the stun from the electrical charge, the report states. Watson said he pressed the Taser directly into Alquisaras’ chest and stunned him.

“He grabbed the Taser. It still locked him up but he squeezed and rolled and it ripped the Taser out of my hand when he went over,” Watson said.

Watson said he shoved off Alquisiras and jumped back while drawing his handgun.

“I seen him coming around with the Taser aiming it toward me. As I seen him coming around I heard the Taser go off as he shot the second cartridge and when he did that, that’s when I shot him probably four to five times,” Watson said.

[READ MORE: Sheriff Mike Chitwood says deputy was fighting for his stun gun.]

[READ MORE: Volusia deputy's backup was 25 miles away in fatal Seville shooting.]

[READ MORE: Deputy shoots and kills Seville man.]

The report included autopsy results which found that the 29-year-old Alquisiras had been shot twice in the right arm and four times in the torso and once in the abdomen. The autopsy also found that Alquisiras had a blood alcohol content of 0.19, which is more than twice 0.08 limit at which a person is considered legally intoxicated to operate a vehicle. It also found cocaine in his system.

Alquisiras had previous arrests for domestic violence in 2008 and driving under the influence in 2004. There had also been an incident not too long before the shooting where he was intoxicated and refused to leave his children’s daycare.

Elianet Escobar, who was previously identified as Alquisiras’ wife, had called the abuse hotline because Alquisiras had threatened her with a knife and had beaten her the day before. Escobar, who does not speak English, said through an interpreter that Alquisiras had grabbed the Taser from Watson and refused to let it go before he was shot.

In a subsequent interview, Escobar said that Alquisiras was drunk and had a knife on him but did not threaten her. But she was afraid he would harm her and the children so she called 9-1-1 at about 6 p.m. Aug. 3. She repeated that Alquisiras had taken the Taser from the deputy. But later in the interview she said that Alquisiras had grabbed the Taser but had not taken it from the deputy.

Watson, who had been with the Sheriff’s Office for 3½ years at the time, was working overtime when he responded to the domestic violence call at 1600 N. U.S. 17 in Seville.

When he arrived he found Alquisiras and his friend Jose Aguirre sitting on the steps of the wooden stairway. The deputy’s backup was on his way but about 25 miles away in DeLand.

Watson was speaking to Alquisiras who was telling the deputy that he didn’t belong there and to go away, the report states. Watson said he saw children peeking out the window but when he asked the men who else was in the house they said no one.

As the deputy spoke to the men a woman emerged from the apartment and handed him a cellphone. On the phone, another woman confirmed that this was the right house where a man had threatened a woman.

Watson told investigators that at that point he decided to arrest Alquisiras and take him to jail.

But when he handed the phone back to the woman, Alquisiras grabbed her and started shaking her and throwing her around, Watson told investigators.

“My first thought was is he going to toss her off the edge, is he going to try and toss her back inside?” Watson said.

Watson contemplated what to do.

“My first thought was punch this guy in the back of the head, try to knock him out,” Watson said. “Then with his friend sitting there I don’t want to get into a physical fight, have his friend jump in, two on one and I still don’t know where my backup is at this point. I knew he was on his way but I was pretty far out there.”

Instead Watson drew his Taser and fired two electric probes into the back of the shirtless Alquisiras.

Watson said it was a good hit by the probes and Alquisiras went down. He said he told Alquisiras’ friend not to move. Then Watson got on top of Alquisiras, using his knee and one hand to pin one of Alquisiras’ hands. He kept trying to handcuff Alquisiras while ordering Aguirre, who had gone down the stairs, not to come back up.

“I was trying to stay pretty calm with my demeanor, my tone of voice,” Watson said, “because the last thing I wanted was for me to start screaming through the roof, getting all worked up and then have the second male subject there, him escalate and join the fight. That was the last thing I wanted at that point.”

Watson recalled Alquisiras telling him the deputy would have to kill him.

Watson tried stunning him again with the Taser but the connection was not good. That’s when Watson tried to press the Taser directly into Alquisiras’ chest. And that’s when Watson said Alquisiras stripped the Taser away from him and shot it. The deputy then opened fire with his .40-caliber pistol.

Alquisiras' friend, Aguirre, said he had been walking down the stairs and away from his friend and the deputy when he heard the gunshots. Aguirre said he turned and saw Alquisiras had been shot.

Aguirre said that Watson told him that Alquisiras had grabbed his Taser. Later in the interview, Aguirre indicated that he "did not really hear" but Watson said Alquisiras was reaching for his Taser.

Watson said Aguirre was upset and came back up the stairs. Watson holstered his gun and met Aguirre part of the way up and told him to stay away.

After talking to Aguirre, a man drove up, jumped out of the car and started yelling and screaming asking why Watson had shot the man.

On the stairway, Watson decided to move.

"I’m like this is a bad spot up on the stairway," Watson said. "If I get into a fight again I’m still going to be fighting two people and it's just me on this rickety staircase."

The deputy moved halfway between the road and the house. Then he saw the man who had just arrived walk to the driver's side door of the car and reach inside.

"As he reached my first immediate thought was, 'Oh, great this guy is reaching for a gun, so I drew my gun out," Watson said.

But when the man's hands appeared he only had a cellphone. And Watson reholstered his gun.

A few minutes later, rescue and a backup deputy arrived. And then more deputies.

DON'T MISS AN EPISODE, SUBSCRIBE: iTunes | Google Play