MONROE COUNTY, Ind. (WTHR) – Just after the prosecutor cleared two officers in the fatal shooting of a suspect, the Monroe County Sheriff released body cam video from the case. The incident happened three weeks ago on August 7 southwest of Blomington on West Tower Road. The video shows officers carefully closing in on a mobile home. Then you hear one of the officers identify himself to the suspect who is now outside the mobile home. "Sheriff's office, stop right now." Then came a volley of police gunshots. In about nine seconds, Monroe County deputies fired at least a dozen shots mortally wounding 24-year-old Daniel Boyer. After the incident police said they did not believe Boyer fired his weapon. Police say Boyer pointed a gun at the officers as they moved in to arrest him on warrants for distributing Meth. Heather Bright, who lives in the mobile home and was there when the shooting happened.

"It’s sad. Its really sad," said Bright. "I know his heart. He is not a killer he wouldn’t hurt anybody, especially a cop." Bright says Boyer and a woman, also wanted on a warrant, were friends and were staying with her that day. But the day of the shooting the sheriff, Brad Swain, said suspect Daniel Boyer had a gun. "Pointed it at the deputies and said a comment to the effect "F— this.'" Looking at the video it’s hard to see exactly what the suspect is doing.

Bright says she was watching everything from her window. From behind the suspect.



Bright remembers Boyer running out of the mobile home to confront the officers.



"When he came out that back door he said F— this s— because he did not want to go to jail," said Bright. "But I know in my heart he would not have shot or pointed a gun at anybody."



"Shots fired. One male down. At gunpoint. Do not move. Leave your hands up," said officers.



Right after the shooting, you can hear deputies concerned about others still in the mobile home. Possible threats.



"Inside the home. Cover the house," they said.



They drag the dying suspect back and keep speaking to him.



One of the deputies told the man, "I know you’re screwed up but stay with us OK. Stay awake stay awake."



They hustle the victim the long way to the road to avoid any threats still in the house. The Deputy is panting with the effort.



With a speaker from his police car a deputy is ordering, "Anyone else in the house come out with your hands up."



With the ordeal over Bright says, "I don’t think he [Boyer] would kill anybody. He’s not a killer."



She says some of the shots fired that day struck her house. Now her 4-year-old son doesn't want to come and visit her.



Every time he comes to the house he says, "Mom, the cops are going to come here and shoot through the house."



She says he is traumatized.