What to Know Massachusetts authorities released new details Monday about how the woman whose body was found in the trunk of a car last week died.

The woman has been identified as 28-year-old Maddilyn Burgess of Massachusetts.

Burgess died of blunt force injuries, according to an autopsy conducted by the Maine medical examiner.

Massachusetts authorities released new details Monday about how the woman whose body was found in the trunk of a car last week died.

The woman has been identified as 28-year-old Maddilyn Burgess of Massachusetts, the Worcester County District Attorney's Office said. She died of blunt force injuries, according to an autopsy conducted by the Maine medical examiner.

Police said Gyrth Rutan, 34, of Sturbridge, Massachusetts, committed suicide in front of a trooper after being pulled over on Interstate 295 in Gardiner, Maine last Thursday afternoon. He reportedly got out of the car armed with a shotgun and turned the weapon on himself. An autopsy determined that he died of a shotgun wound to the head.

It's not clear why Rutan drove to Maine, but police said he has family in the state and his Facebook page indicates that he grew up in Brewster.

Sturbridge police and state police detectives assigned to the Worcester County District Attorney's Office got involved after it was learned that Rutan lived in Sturbridge.

Detectives searched Rutan's residence on Fairview Park Road on Friday and discovered evidence of a crime scene. Authorities did not specify what was found.

Neighbors in Sturbridge said Rutan kept to himself and was someone they never really knew.

"Surprised and appalled and all mixed up, you know, living so close to this person and not knowing anything really about him," one woman said.

Police were going in and out of Rutan's Sturbridge home on Friday, according to neighbors.

"Surprising. I mean, I saw the cops around a lot, going in, and it's just a lot going on," Sarah Fulginiti said.

The investigation into Burgess' death is ongoing.