ATLANTA — The Georgia Bureau of Investigation is investigating a deadly deputy-involved shooting in northwest Atlanta.

Levester Taylor, 39, was shot and killed at the Norfolk Southern rail yard on Marietta Road Monday morning.

According to Channel 2's Nicole Carr on the scene, the situation involved the DeKalb County Sheriff's Office. Atlanta police officers responded to the shooting.

Just arrived to officer-involved shooting scene in Atlanta’s Norfolk Southern Rail hard. As you can see this also involves the DeKalb Sheriff’s Office , but the @GBI_GA investigation request came from @Atlanta_Police . @wsbtv #breaking pic.twitter.com/zsZ8DiAmnl — Nicole Carr (@NicoleCarrWSB) August 6, 2018

DeKalb County Sheriff Jeff Mann says deputies were at the rail yard to serve a warrant on Taylor for felony child molestation. Three deputies opened fire after Taylor began attacking a deputy with a metal pipe wrench, Mann told Channel 2.

One deputy was taken to a hospital with a head injury. He is in fair condition.

TRENDING STORIES:

A heavy police presence could be seen from NewsChopper 2 as it flew over the scene during Channel 2 Action News at Noon. A portion of the parking lot near the rail yard was closed off with crime scene tape.

Shooting investigation at Norfolk-Southern yard on Marietta Rd in NW Atlanta. They have The road closed b/t Carroll and West Marietta St. use Marietta Blvd as alternate. Updates on @wsbtv Ch 2 Action News at Noon. pic.twitter.com/B4JyaAxc4G — Jason Durden (@JasonDurdenWSB) August 6, 2018

Norfolk Southern said in a statement that Taylor was a contractor from Illinois-based ITS ConGlobal, not one of their employees.

"I can confirm that there was an incident at Norfolk Southern’s rail yard in Atlanta this morning. It involved a contractor who worked for Norfolk Southern, not an employee," director of public relations Susan Terpay said.

Coworkers say Taylor had worked on and off at the rail yard in NW Atlanta for several years.

"He was not just a coworker, he was a friend," Willie Felton said.

Cox Media Group