HOLLYWOOD, Fla. – A man who called Local 10 News to warn that something would happen soon is dead after he set his house on fire and was shot by police while confronting them with a gun, police said.

During a phone call just before 3 a.m., the man, later identified by police as 52-year-old Leu Freycinet, requested a reporter be sent to his home for a story. Freycinet gave his address and said something would happen in the next 15 minutes, but he would not specify what.

"I asked him what was going to be on air that he needed reporters and he said, 'Well, there is going to be several squad cars coming out here soon,'" Local 10 assignment desk editor Nina Nahmias said.

Freycinet claimed he was a veteran and that someone was plotting to assassinate the president.

Newsroom employees alerted police after the initial call, but soon after a second phone call was made in which Freycinet indicated he had a shotgun on his lap.

Police were notified again, this time about the possible gun in Freycinet's possession.

Local 10 News reporter Saira Anwer and a photojournalist were at the scene along North 62nd Avenue as police evacuated the area. They were kept several blocks away for their safety.

Neighbors said they heard gunshots.

"I looked out my window and saw a police car," neighbor Brian Clark told Local 10. "A couple minutes later I got a knock on the door from the SWAT team telling us we need to evacuate."

According to Hollywood police spokeswoman Miranda Grossman, officers were trying to contact Freycinet when they heard multiple gunshots coming from the home.

"The subject was firing his weapon both inside and outside the home of the residents, endangering the lives of others," Grossman said.

Police said they saw Freycinet burning a paper bag and setting his house on fire. Police said Freycinet then walked out of his home and confronted officers, who were forced to shoot.

"That subject then exited the home with a firearm and confronted officers," Grossman said. "Officers were then forced to fire. That suspect died on scene."

Firefighters were called to extinguish the flames.