Note: Story has been updated at 10:55 a.m. Tuesday to include a statement from Greenfield Police Chief Robert H. Haigh Jr.

GREENFIELD - A Greenfield Police seargent is being charged with negligent vehicular homicide for his role in an October 2017 fatal crash that occured while he was racing to an unrelated call, according to the Northwestern District Attorney's Office.

Sgt. James B. Rode is scheduled to be arraigned on the charge Wednesday morning in Greenfield District Court, according to Mary Carey, communications director for Northwestern DA David Sullivan.

He is charged in connection with the Oct. 1 crash at High and Sanderson streets that resulted in the death of James Arcellana, 29, of Hinsdale, New Hampshire, and injuries to a passenger.

Just before the crash, Rode had been dispatched from the station to respond to a report of an erratic operator near the Deerfield town line.

An investigation into the crash found that Rode was travelling 83 mph in a 30 mph zone at the point of impact, Carey said.

The police cruiser was speeding south on High Street when it collided with the rear passenger side of Arcellana's Suburu, which was westbound on Sanderson Street and had just entered the intersection at High Street.

Arcellana and his passenger, and Rode each needed to be hospitalized for injuries in the crash. Arcellana died a few days later at Baystate Medical Center.

Rode has been out injured since the crash.

Immediately following the crash, Greenfield Police Chief Robert H. Haigh Jr. launched an internal investigation by the department.

Carey said state police detectives assigned to Sullivan's office, and troopers assigned to the state police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction Section also investigated.

The charge of negligent motor vehicular homicide is considered a misdemeanor punishable by up to 2 1/2 years in the county jail and a loss of a driver's license for up to 15 years.

Rode, according to Greenfield police, has been a full-time officer with the department since 2002. He was promoted to the rankof sergeant in October 2015.



Chief Haigh on Tuesday morning that issued a statement reading:

"To be sensitive to the continued investigation and judicial procedures that are in progress, I will not be making any additional statements in regard to the press release from the Northwestern District Attorneys Office.

The Greenfield Police Department has an open internal investigation into this incident, and will release any finding when the investigation can be completed. The officer involved currently remains out on injured on duty status, and has not returned to active duty status since the date of the initial incident. Our thoughts are with all those who continue to be affected by this tragic event, and I ask for patience with regard to this ongoing matter."