AKRON, Ohio -- The Summit County Medical Examiner's Office identified an Akron who was killed by police after he fatally shot his wife earlier this month.

Robert Talbert, 49, died of multiple gunshot wounds to his chest and abdomen, according to the medical examiner's office.

Talbert, who shot his wife, Gidget Talbert, 45, in the head, was shot by Akron police officers who were searching for him, police have said.

The incident began Aug. 11 about 3:30 a.m., police said. A woman called 911 and said her brother-in-law woke her up and told her he shot his wife in the basement of the home in the 1300 block of Carey Avenue.

The woman and another family member ran to a neighbor's home and called police.

Talbert threatened to kill himself, other family members and police officers, Akron police said.

Talbert suffered from bi-polar disorder and depression, according to police.

A SWAT team surrounded the home and eventually found the 45-year-old woman dead of a gunshot wound in a camper outside the home, police said.

Police officers scoured the neighborhood. Talbert forced his way through the enclosed front porch door to a home at about 6 a.m. in the 1300 block of Fawler Avenue, police said.

He knocked on the door and asked to use their phone, but ran off when the resident called 911, police said.

About a half-hour later, Talbert flagged down a 40-year-old man dropping off a friend on Swinehart Avenue. The man asked for a ride to a station on Wooster Road.

When he got to the gas station, he pulled out a gun, jumped into his wife's 2002 Hyundai Sonata and sped off on East Avenue, police said.

Talbert drove to his brother's home in the 1100 block of McIntosh Avenue. A relative called police and told officers that he was holding a gun to his head, police said. Again, he ran off before police arrived.

He then broke into a home in the 1100 block of Kohler Avenue. A man who lived at the home chased him out of the home with a shotgun, police said.

As the man walked out of the home, Akron police pulled up. Talbert, still clutching the handgun, ran from the officers.

The officers opened fire, killing Talbert on Kohler Avenue and 25th Street Southwest, police said. Officers recovered the handgun for evidence, police said.

The man was taken to Akron General, where he died at about 12:30 p.m.

The officers who fired the shots -- a 15-year veteran and two-and-a-half-year veteran -- are on paid leave.

Cleveland.com put in a request for the officers' body camera video, but it has not been fulfilled yet.

To comment on this story, visit Wednesday's crime and courts comments page.