Jesse Garza

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

Holding a gun to his head, Mario Hobson turned toward Milwaukee police officers before being shot multiple times by two of the officers, body camera video released by police Thursday shows.

Hobson, 31, was shot Aug. 13 in the 1900 block of S. 10th St. during a traffic stop after having driven off from a previous stop by police earlier in the day, according to police.

The shooting remains under investigation by the Milwaukee Area Investigative Team, in accordance with state law that requires outside investigators to lead probes into fatal police shootings.

The investigation is being led by the Waukesha Police Department, Milwaukee Police Chief Alfonso Morales said at a news conference Thursday.

The 4-minute 54-second video is only a portion of body camera video of the incident that can be released before the investigation's conclusion, Morales said.

Other police departments have released such video only when forced to, said Morales, adding that the partial release is in accordance with his department's effort to promote transparency and build stronger relationships with city residents.

He said during the past eight months he and his command staff have met with community members to discuss ways in which that can be accomplished.

"I am pleased to say that although we have a long way to go, we are making progress," Morales said, denying that the partial release was an attempt by police to control the narrative of the fatal shooting.

RELATED:Milwaukee officer was 'already on edge' when he approached Bucks' Sterling Brown, woman says

However, Morales and other police officials at the news conference could not explain why, until Thursday, Hobson's identity was never officially released, and have still not identified the officers involved in the shooting.

They also could not explain why the death Oct.17 of Alonzo Smith, 31, who was shot and wounded by police Oct. 10, was not confirmed until two days after he died and only after an inquiry by a reporter.

Smith was shot shortly before 6 a.m. Oct. 10 outside an apartment building near North 101st Street and West Mill Road, where officers responded to a report of shots fired.

Witnesses told the officers that shots were being fired at the apartment building before the officers confronted Smith and shot him when he refused to drop his firearm, Morales said at the time.

He also said the officers believed they were being shot at, and police officials have said that the investigation of that shooting was being led by Wauwatosa police

Milwaukee police have set a goal of releasing at least portions of body camera video of officer-involved shootings, including Smith's, within 45 days, Morales said.

Video begins with traffic stop

The video released Thursday begins with a traffic stop near South 27th and West Mitchell streets in which Hobson is a front-seat passenger in a car pulled over by police.

After a man driving the car exits the vehicle, Hobson, who Morales said was wanted on warrants for domestic violence and a probation violation, slides behind the steering wheel and drives off, knocking one officer onto the street.

Officers pursue the car north on 27th Street before losing sight it and terminating the pursuit.

Later that day, about 5 p.m., officers at South 10th and West Burnham streets approach an SUV that is double-parked and in which Hobson is a passenger in the back seat. When one of the officers opens the rear driver's side door, Hobson emerges with a gun to his head and can be heard saying he is going to kill himself.

Officers then retreat from the vehicle, yell at Hobson to drop the gun and shoot him after he turns toward them.

"An individual armed with a firearm is extremely dangerous because he can start shooting at any moment in any direction," Captain Joseph McLin, who heads the Police Department's homicide unit, says in the video.

"The suspect's actions showed disregard for the officers' lawful orders and forced the situation to its conclusion," McLin said.