Iowa Department of Public Safety officials said Tuesday that a man has died in an officer-involved shooting.Union County Dispatch Center received a 911 call around 11:55 p.m. reporting a man with a gun sitting on a bench in McKinley Park.The Creston Police Department and the Union County Sheriff’s Office responded to McKinley Park, according to DPS officials.Authorities said they asked the man to drop his weapon, but the man refused and charged at the officers."Then one of the Creston officers did fire upon the individual,” Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation special agent Mike Motsinger said.Authorities have not confirmed the man’s identity, but Creston residents Chris and Carrie Knox told KCCI that the man was Chris Cameron, a childhood friend."We got a call from his mom earlier telling him what happened,” Carrie Knox said."She said he had brought a gun out here last night,” Chris Knox said.The officer involved in the shooting has been placed on paid administrative leave, per Creston Police Department policy, until the completion of the investigation."I think one of the first things that I told Chris was that I just felt really bad for the officer,” Carrie Knox said."(Cameron) wasn't a bad guy by any means,” she said. “He definitely had some problems."Chris Knox said Cameron's mother told the couple that he left an apology letter in his car."He told me several months ago that he's been planning his funeral for at least a year,” Chris Knox said.The body has been transported to the Iowa Office of the State Medical Examiner in Ankeny, where an autopsy will be conducted on August 15.

Iowa Department of Public Safety officials said Tuesday that a man has died in an officer-involved shooting.

Union County Dispatch Center received a 911 call around 11:55 p.m. reporting a man with a gun sitting on a bench in McKinley Park.

Advertisement

The Creston Police Department and the Union County Sheriff’s Office responded to McKinley Park, according to DPS officials.

Authorities said they asked the man to drop his weapon, but the man refused and charged at the officers.

"Then one of the Creston officers did fire upon the individual,” Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation special agent Mike Motsinger said.

Authorities have not confirmed the man’s identity, but Creston residents Chris and Carrie Knox told KCCI that the man was Chris Cameron, a childhood friend.

"We got a call from his mom earlier telling him what happened,” Carrie Knox said.

"She said he had brought a gun out here last night,” Chris Knox said.

The officer involved in the shooting has been placed on paid administrative leave, per Creston Police Department policy, until the completion of the investigation.

"I think one of the first things that I told Chris was that I just felt really bad for the officer,” Carrie Knox said.

"(Cameron) wasn't a bad guy by any means,” she said. “He definitely had some problems."

Chris Knox said Cameron's mother told the couple that he left an apology letter in his car.

"He told me several months ago that he's been planning his funeral for at least a year,” Chris Knox said.

The body has been transported to the Iowa Office of the State Medical Examiner in Ankeny, where an autopsy will be conducted on August 15.