PAINESVILLE, Ohio -- Painesville police released the 911 call made by a Gates Mills police officer moments after his wife shot him at their home.

Dylan Hustosky suffered two gunshot wounds in his left arm from a gun fired by his wife Kayleigh Hustosky, police said.

The shooting happened Monday about 4:15 p.m. at their home in the 100 block of Cedarbrook Drive where police said the wife turned the gun on herself and took her own life, according to police.

"My wife just shot me, please," Dylan Hustosky can be heard telling the dispatcher. "She's going to kill me. She already shot me through the door."

He can be heard screaming "stop" to Kayleigh Hustosky.

Investigators said Dylan Hustosky made the 911 call from his cellphone as he ran away from the couple's two-story home on the normally quiet street. Officers found him in the driveway of Heritage Middle School bleeding from the bullet holes in his left arm, police said.

The school is a short distance from the home where the couple raised their 3-year-old son and small dog. A blue Toyatoa Corolla and a gray Hyundai Sante Fe remained in the driveway of the home as of Tuesday afternoon.

The dispatcher in the 911 recording told the panicked Dylan Hustosky to tie a piece of clothing around his arm to stop the bleeding.

The call lasted for four minutes, but Dylan Hustosky's voice can only be heard in the first minute and 15 seconds. Shortly after, he screamed at what sounds like a gun shot.

Paramedics took Dylan Hustosky to TriPoint Medical Center in Concord Township before he was transferred to MetroHealth for treatment. He underwent surgery Tuesday afternoon, officials said.

Investigators said Kayleigh Hustosky, 29, refused to communicate with police or come out of the house. Painesville police called Lake County SWAT.

Officers used a robot and drones to go inside the home. Kayleigh Hustosky was discovered at 7:42 p.m. upstairs in the home with a single gunshot wound, Waterman said. Her body was sent to the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner's Office for an autopsy.

To comment on this story, please visit our crime and courts comments page.