Katie Hall

Two years after police shot and killed an armed man in downtown Austin, his family is suing the eight officers who fired at him, contending that video from their body cameras contradicts officers’ statements saying his gun was pointed at them.

Police fatally shot 21-year-old Aquantis Griffin, better known as Ajay, on Aug. 17, 2018, after he exchanged gunfire with another man. Travis County district attorney’s officials said they plan to present the case to the grand jury when a new district attorney takes over next year.

While the family’s attorneys have seen the video, the DA’s office said it won’t release the footage publicly before it goes to a grand jury.

“I think people will be shocked when the video does come out, when they see the excessive number of bullets and the excessive force here,” attorney Rebecca Webber said. “I think that people should be upset about a young Black man, lying in the street, who is shot more than two dozen times.”

Griffin threw down his gun after police fired the first shot, said Garrett Condon, a Louisiana attorney who is also representing the family.

“Rather than arresting him and giving him a chance at his life, the officers then fired somewhere in the order of 25 to 30 additional shots at Aquantis — with his back to them, lying face down on the ground and disarmed,” Condon wrote in a 2019 letter to the Travis County DA’s office.

Austin police officials did not respond to requests for comment. The suit also names the city of Austin, and city officials released a statement Thursday that says, “We are aware of the lawsuit and will respond appropriately."

Griffin had traveled from Baton Rouge, La., to attend a Sixth Street concert by his childhood friend, his attorneys said. Police dispatchers started receiving calls around 1 a.m. that shots had been fired in that area, Assistant Police Chief Troy Gay said in a news conference after the shooting.

Jordan Seguin, 21, was later charged in the shooting, police records show. Seguin fired about four shots in the general direction above Griffin and, in response, Griffin armed himself and also fired in the air, Condon's letter says.

After officers heard the shots, they positioned themselves near the alley, Gay said.

"At that point they saw an individual that was running toward them ... with a handgun in his right hand," Gay said.

Griffin was running away from Seguin’s gunfire, and he was not the only person to run out of the alley, the lawsuit says.

Gay said the officers gave Griffin multiple commands, but the lawsuit contends that “officers chaotically shouted conflicting and confusing commands over each other at Ajay, including commands to ‘get on the ground,’ ‘stop running,’ ‘drop the gun,’ and ‘who has a Taser?’”

The lawsuit says that “before Ajay had any reasonable opportunity to fully comply with officers' commands, (the officers) opened fire.”

During his news conference, Gay said video shows that Griffin’s weapon “points toward the direction of the officers,” an account that the family’s attorneys dispute after viewing the footage.

“While there was a moment where Aquantis' weapon was swung in the direction of the police, the police did not start firing until after Aquantis put his weapon to his side, turned, and started running away,” Condon’s letter says.

The lawsuit says that Griffin didn’t look directly at the police officers and didn’t point his gun at them.

While Texas is an open carry state, state law requires people with licenses to carry their guns in shoulder or belt holsters, Austin police union President Ken Casaday said.

“We’ll see what the facts show,” Casaday said. “If there’s any legitimacy to it, it’ll end up in court and go through a trial. We’ll have to wait and see.”

Officers are trained to perceive threats based on a variety of circumstances, said Deputy Chief Cullen Grissom with the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement. Some of those factors include the person’s demeanor, whether their gun is holstered, the proximity of the armed person to the officer, whether the officer has given verbal commands and whether the person is complying with those commands, he said.

Webber acknowledged that it will be a difficult case, with experts on both sides offering competing viewpoints about the officers’ actions.

"I fully expect that it's going to be a battle of the experts," she said.

Webber said she believes officers were quick to fire because Griffin was Black. She cited a 2016 report from the Center for Policing Equity that found that Austin police were more likely to use severe force against Black and brown people. Austin police were disproportionately more likely to shoot rather than use their hand-to-hand training or deploy pepper spray when the person subjected to force was Black.

The family is suing eight Austin police officers: Joseph Cast, Wesley Devries, Justin Halbach, Stephen Johnson, Alberto Martinez, Daniel Mathis, Joseph Moran and Christopher Salacki. Cast was also involved in the fatal shooting of 46-year-old Mauris DeSilva last year.

Austin police earlier this year instituted a new policy to release body camera footage within 60 days of an incident, but that policy was implemented after Griffin’s shooting.

Police declined to release the video to the American-Statesman, citing an open and active investigation. The Travis County DA’s office also declined to release it before the case was presented to a grand jury.

The Austin City Council earlier this year approved a 10-year, $48 million contract with Axon Enterprise Inc., which makes both the stun guns and body cameras that Austin officers carry.

“Taxpayers shoulder this huge cost because we were promised more accountability and transparency,” Webber said. “Meanwhile, APD is not even releasing the footage of incidents like the protest injuries. I think it's unconscionable the way that they hide behind the law enforcement exception and drag these investigations out.”

After Griffin’s shooting, the Austin community had to rely on officials’ statements during a news conference, rather than body camera footage, which tells a different story, Condon said in his letter.

“While Assistant Police Chief Gay's spin on the facts certainly had the effect of quelling any public outrage in the days, weeks, and now months since the shooting, Austin's quiet was bought at the sacrifice of the truth,” Condon wrote in 2019. “The facts are the facts. And you possess it all on video and audio.”