According to a press release, the deputies were attempting to deescalate a situation in which Bryan Bayne displayed both suicidal and homicidal intentions on Aug. 19, 2018.

SPOKANE VALLEY, Wash. — Spokane County Prosecutors determined Wednesday that deputies involved in the deadly shooting of a suspect at a Spokane Valley gas station in August 2018 were justified in their use of force.

Officials said Spokane County sheriff’s deputies Michael Brooks, Timothy Jones, Jerry Moffett, Jason Petrini, Randy Watts, Travis West and Brandon Wilson were justified in their use of lethal and less lethal force against Bryan Bayne.

According to a press release, the deputies were attempting to deescalate a situation in which Bayne displayed both suicidal and homicidal intentions on Aug. 19, 2018.

Officials said around 9 a.m. Aug. 19, 911 was called about a man, later identified as Bayne, who was driving a red/orange pick-up truck recklessly eastbound on E. Trent Ave. and had pulled into a Mobile gas station at E. Trent Ave. and N. Evergreen Rd. in Spokane Valley. While Bayne was parked at the gas pumps, it was reported that he was swinging an unknown object at his truck and causing damage to the windshield and exterior of the truck, authorities said.

When a deputy contacted Bayne, he said he was fighting demons and voices in his head and he wasn’t going to jail. Officials said he was armed with a pistol. Backup units were called and a SWAT response was initiated after Bayne refused to put the gun down and allow deputies to get him help, authorities said.

Officials said Bayne periodically pointed the gun at his head and then would place it on the dashboard during the nearly two-hour stand-off. Bayne also fired a shot into the cab of his truck and said he wanted to be sure the gun would work, authorities said. He also told deputies he wanted to be shot with a law enforcement rifle instead of a .22. Bayne said twice that he was going to get out of the truck with his gun pointed at officers, so they would have to shoot him.

Several law enforcement vehicles were positioned around Bayne’s truck so he could not leave the area. When the last vehicle was deployed, officials said Bayne sat up in the cab of the truck and pointed the pistol toward the rear where several deputies were positioned. Several deputies then fired at Bayne.

Officials said a team of deputies and medics approached Bayne’s truck and determined he was dead.