GREAT FALLS- A man who reportedly brandished a gun at Great Falls police officers was shot and killed on Sunday evening.

The name of the man is Charles A. Marcotte, according to R.J. Brown, the Fergus County Coroner. The names of the four officers involved have not yet been released; they have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure whenever officers are involved in a shooting

The incident began when officers responded to a residence in the Highwoods Mobile Home Park at 6:48 p.m. for a reported disturbance.

During the call to 911, dispatchers received information indicating the disturbance was escalating and required a highest priority police response.

When officers arrived, they encountered a man armed with a gun. Great Falls said in a Facebook post at 10:12 p.m. that when officers made contact with the man, he “brandished the gun, shots were exchanged, and he was fatally shot by our officers.”

OFFICER INVOLVED SHOOTING – This evening, at approximately 6:48pm, our officers responded to the report of a… Posted by Great Falls MT Police Department on Sunday, August 19, 2018

On Monday afternoon, the 911 Dispatch Center call logs for the incident were released.

The Dispatch Center received a call at 6:48 p.m. about a reported disturbance. The caller told dispatchers that the man had begged the caller to call police. The caller also reported that the man said, ‘When a cop come, he will shot (sic) himself.’

The call log indicates that the man was armed with at least two pistols, and one “AR type rifle.”

Police negotiated with the man for more than 30 minutes, trying to get him to put down his weapons.

At 7:30, the man reportedly said that he had been in the 24/7 Sobriety program for about 10 years, and does not want to deal with 24/7 deputy any more.

At 7:34, the dispatch log states that he holding the rifle and was crouched behind and barricaded behind a cooler.

At 7:35, the dispatch log states: “GOT THE AR POKING OUT TOWARDS US”

The next entry, several seconds later, states “SHOTS FIRE”

Aaron Christensen was nearby when it happened: “It was pretty serious, you know. All of a sudden a bunch of other cops started showing up. I made sure everybody stayed inside, yelled at a few other people to, you know, back up. None of these trailers will stop bullets.”

Great Falls Police Chief David Bowen has requested that the Montana Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI) lead the inquiry into the incident, which is standard in such situations.

Police also said that as officers were driving to the scene, displaying top lights and with an audible siren, one officer was involved in a two-vehicle automobile crash. The occupant of the private vehicle sustained minor injuries, and the officer sustained serious but non-life threatening injuries. Troopers with the Montana Highway Patrol are investigating the crash.

Police have not yet released any other information.

There have been four shootings of suspects in Great Falls within the last 18 months. In April 2017, a knife-wielding suspect was shot and injured by an officer. In September 2017, Jordan Addison died after being shot by a GFPD officer. In December 2017, Stacy Micheletti was shot and killed by police after he reportedly brandished a gun.

Reporting by Margaret DeMarco, MTN News.