The officer wounded during a Walnut Hills altercation with a robbery suspect was hit by a round fired by another officer, police said.

Cincinnati Police Chief Eliot Isaac during a news conference Monday displayed body camera footage of officers attempting to serve a felony warrant to a resident of the Talbert House facility on Victory Parkway Friday afternoon.

The incident left the suspect, James Clay, 20, dead on the scene. The footage showed Clay pulled what appeared to be a firearm from his waistband and charge at the officers.

Chief Eliot Isaac said the weapon turned out to be a pellet gun. Isaac said he spoke to the man's family who said he had a history of mental illness.

Isaac reported Ronald Schultz was struck by a bullet when his fellow officers opened fire at Clay, killing him. Schultz is expected to make a full recovery. The two other officers were placed on administrative leave, per department protocol.

How police ended up in Clay's apartment

Isaac said police began investigating Clay in connection to a "vicious and violent" robbery at a Boost Mobile store on Kemper Lane.

Security footage showed the employee of the store being physically beaten for about 5 minutes before the suspect took items from the store and left.

During the investigation, police learned Clay was living at the Talbert House apartment on Victory Parkway.

On Friday, Schultz went Clay's residence with two other officers: Stephen Bender and Thomas Wells.

When they knocked on the door, no one answered, Isaac said. The officer asked a Talbert House employee to let them in the apartment.

They found Clay inside, Isaac said. The body camera footage shows him pulling away from police, grabbing for Schultz's Taser and then rushing the officers with his pellet gun drawn.

'Not what these officers wished for'

Sixteen shot were fired in the confined space of the apartment, Isaac said. At least one of those bullets struck Schultz who got tangled up with Clay in the altercation.

Isaac also said he spoke to family members of Clay who gave him permission to publically announce Clay had mental illnesses.

Clay was charged with resisting arrest last year. Police said he ran from officers, refused to obey commands and had to be taken to the ground in order to be arrested.

Isaac refused to speculate about whether Clay was committing "suicide by cop." He said his heart goes out his family.

“To take this action with a pellet gun against police officers, you’re very much entering a deadly situation," Isaac said. “This is not what these officers wished for, but very much in line with their training.”

An administrative investigation and an independent Citizen's Complaint Authority investigation are ongoing. He said the incident highlighted the danger officers face.

“We have to be vigilant in what we do,” Isaac said. “We want to do no harm, however, our officers will defend themselves.”

Cincinnati City Councilman Christopher Smitherman, chair of the law and public safety committee said this situation showcases the importance of body cameras and the need for more funds and space for training. He said it was a "miracle" more officers were not injured with some much gunfire happening is such a small place.

More:'More than just a scratch': Officer shot in arm will require surgery, FOP president says

More:Cincinnati police officer shot: What we know

More:First month free: Subscribe to unlimited digital access to Cincinnati.com