SPARTANBURG Co., S.C. (WSPA) – The Spartanburg County Coroner’s Office identified a man who was shot and killed, while he was armed with a crossbow Friday morning in Enoree.

Deputies responded to a call about domestic violence with a weapon around 8:25 a.m. Friday morning in the 2900 block of Grace Chapel Road, between Highway 146 and Highway 56.

The sheriff’s office said a woman, who ran to her neighbor’s house and called 911, told deputies that she and her husband had been separated for the past several months, and that he had been staying with his family members nearby.

She said her estranged husband — identified as Jeffery Paul Fabio, 44 — showed up intoxicated and attempted to assault her sexually.

The woman was taken to the hospital to be checked out and receive medical attention, according to Sheriff Wright.

The woman said Fabio was also armed with a crossbow.

Deputies went next door and had to jump a locked fence across the driveway.

They found Fabio in the woods in front of the home with a loaded crossbow.

Deputies called for backup and tried to negotiate with him for 15 minutes.

Fabio told the deputies he was going to make them shoot him and kept repeating suicide by cop, according to the report.

Deputies tried to get him to put the crossbow down, but as two other deputies arrived and took up strategic positions, Fabio took aim at one of them.

Two deputies fired their weapons several times and killed Fabio, according to the sheriff’s office.

Spartanburg County Coroner Rusty Clevenger said Fabio was pronounced dead at the scene around 9:40 a.m.

Clevenger said an autopsy has been set for Saturday and said cause and manner of death is pending further examination and investigation by State Law Enforcement Division (SLED).

None of the deputies were hurt during the incident.

The sheriff’s office contacted the SLED to investigate and the four deputies involved were placed on paid administrative leave.

“We express our deepest sympathy to the families of both the victim and the suspect and sincerely request that their privacy be respected during this difficult time,” Lt. Kevin Bobo said.