A West Manchester Township police officer acted lawfully when he fatally shot a suspect in a retail theft who had fired at a gun at him, York County District Attorney Dave Sunday said on Monday.

Logan Montgomery, 29, of Lancaster County, was shot and mortally wounded on Aug. 25 at the Motel 6 in Manchester Township. He was later pronounced dead at York Hospital.

“The thorough investigation conducted by the Pennsylvania State Police clearly indicate that the facts and circumstances of this incident support the use of deadly force and therefore do not warrant any criminal charges against the officer involved,” Sunday said in a statement.

RELATED:‘Heroin will take everything from you:’ Drugs destroyed man killed by police in York County

The York County District Attorney’s Office provided the following account:

On Aug. 23, a West Manchester Township police officer was assigned to investigate a theft that happened at a Walmart. Police used the description of a vehicle to develop Montgomery and his wife as suspects.

Law enforcement learned that the couple was staying at the Motel 6, which is on Arsenal Road before Loucks Mill Road. Montgomery’s 1998 Ford Escort was in the parking lot. The West Manchester Township police officer, and a Northern York County Regional police officer, walked into the lobby and confirmed that the man had rented a room.

Montgomery was later taken into custody.

When the West Manchester Township police officer tried to search Montgomery’s back pockets, he aggressively pulled away and twisted his body. He then fired a gun. The gunshot, the officer reported, sounded like it was “right at his ear.”

The officer stated that he was fearful for his life. He said he knew that Montgomery was shooting at him.

Next, the officer pushed Montgomery away to put some distance between them, drew his service weapon and fired. The shooting happened so fast that the officer did not have time to give any verbal commands.

Montgomery, the district attorney’s office said, obtained the weapon that morning “for the stated purpose of committing armed robberies.”

ALSO OF INTEREST:Northern York County Regional police officer cleared in Dover Township shooting of man who had rifle

West Manchester Township Police Chief John Snyder said he agreed with the DA’s determination. The officer, he said, will be released to come back to work shortly.

At first, Snyder declined to release the officer’s name.

“It’s an internal matter. It’s an internal investigation. And he’s been cleared,” Snyder said. “I don’t understand the urgency in getting the officer’s name out in the public.”

Later, Snyder backtracked and identified the officer as Christopher Mills.

Mills, he said, immediately administered first aid. He complied with the department's use of force policy and was justified in his actions.

"This incident is a reminder to everyone that each day an officer works in this dangerous profession they are at peril," Snyder said in a statement. "Officer Mills demonstrated bravery, constraint, and professionalism during this investigation."

PAST COVERAGE:Northern York County Regional police officer lawfully used deadly force in church lot, DA says

Montgomery struggled for years with addiction to heroin and other drugs.

In a Facebook message, Cali Elser, Montgomery’s mother, said her son was a different person when clean and would never hurt anyone. She described the incident as a direct result of drug use.

Elser said her son was sweet, kind and caring. He loved his family “but just couldn't get free from this demon.” Montgomery had Klonopin in his system, she said, which, in the past, made him suicidal.

For years, Elser said she endured stress and fear about what was ahead for him. Now, she said, “my heart is shattered but he is pain free and with the God he knew.”

“I personally am so thankful that no one else was hurt or killed in this horrific event,” Elser said. “My heart goes out to the officer involved as I am sure it isn't easy knowing that you took a son, a father, a great friend to many.”

Contact Dylan Segelbaum at 717-771-2102.

Check out this photo gallery of York County's most wanted: (The photos and information published are provided by the York County Sheriff's Office. To report information on any of these individuals, call York County Crime Stoppers at 717-755-TIPS)