Tarboro officer cleared of any wrongdoing in fatal shooting

A Tarboro police officer has been cleared of any wrongdoing where he was involved in a fatal shooting on N. Main Street in September 2018.

Tarboro Police Chief Jesse Webb confirmed in an interview with the Tar River Times Tuesday that Patrolman Bryan Baker had been cleared by the District Attorney’s Office after he fatally shot 37-year-old Sebastian Siney Chamale.

The police department received a call for service from a residence on N. Main Street that there was a burglary attempt in progress and that someone was at their back door trying to gain entrance to the home.

Sgt. Keith Morris and Baker arrived simultaneously, Webb confirmed.

“Sgt. Morris went to the front door of the residence to make contact with the homeowners to find out what was going on and Patrolman Baker approached the side of the residence to go around back,” Webb said. “When he got to the side of the house, he noticed the gate and the elevated deck that is all attached to the house. And once he went up on the deck he encountered the suspect.”

While the officer had visual contact of the suspect, Chamale was still trying to break into the residence. And on Baker’s body camera, it can be heard the clanging of some type of object against metal or concrete. Each impact could be heard clearly.

“The officer went around the back corner of the deck and that is where he illuminated his flashlight and saw the suspect and the male homeowner standing inside the backdoor of the home,” Webb said. “The suspect was still at the backdoor of the home still trying to gain entry with the object in his hand.”

The officer immediately engaged with Chamale to get his attention and that’s when Chamale turned and acknowledged that the officer was law enforcement.

“The officer told the suspect to stop, and as soon as he didn’t, the subject made a movement and went two steps in another direction and he immediately stopped and that’s when Officer Baker drew his firearm,” Webb said.



Read the rest of this story in our March 28 edition.