Chase Sullivan was shot and killed by Fairview Police after wielding a knife.

Police were responding to a welfare check called in from Sullivan's family.

No charges will be filed in the shooting, and no body camera footage is available.

A Fairview man was shot and killed by police officers during a welfare check on Aug. 31.

Here's what we know about the shooting.

What happened?

Fairview Police responded to a welfare check at the residence of Chase Sullivan, 36. Rebecca Winners, Sullivan's aunt, had called 911 after receiving an alarming text from Sullivan. After talking with his mother, they agreed to "get him some help."

Sullivan would not answer the door when police officers, firefighters and medics arrived on the scene at the Legacy Apartments in Fairview. They broke down the door.

Two police officers entered the apartment and saw Sullivan with a knife in his hand, according to initial reports.

Officers ordered Sullivan to drop the weapon. Sullivan did not, and the situtation escalated, resulting in the two officers firing their service weapons several times, striking Sullivan.

First responders administered CPR immediately, but Sullivan died at the scene.

Who were the officers involved?

Fairview Police officers Jamey Meadows and Jordan Whaley.

Will any criminal charges be filed?

No. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation investigated the shooting at the request of District Attorney General Kim Helper. A grand jury reviewed the TBI findings during their Nov. 5 session and "did not find that any criminal chargers were warranted in this matter," according to helper.

THE LATEST:'This was not supposed to happen,' Fairview police officers won't face charges in fatal shooting during welfare check

SUPPORT LOCAL JOURNALISM: The most comprehensive breaking news coverage on sale now.

Is body camera footage available?

No. TBI says that video footage from one officer's body camera was "corrupted" and the second officer's camera was charging in his patrol car during the incident.