The Spokane County Prosecutor's Office said officers from the Cheney Police Department were justified in using lethal force against Steven L. Anderson.

Example video title will go here for this video

SPOKANE COUNTY, Wash. — The Spokane County Prosecutor's Office has decided not to charge the three Cheney Police officers involved in a Sept. 2018 shooting that killed Steven L. Anderson, saying they were justified in their use of lethal force.

In a news release from Spokane County spokesman Jared Webley, the SCPO determined that Cheney Police Department Officers Nicole Burbridge, Zed Campbell and Reserve Officer Nick Horn were justified in using lethal force against 40-year-old Steven L. Anderson on Sept. 3, 2018.

According to Webley, the officers shot Anderson after he ignored commands and charged at them while holding a knife at Mitchell's Harvest Foods in Cheney.

A caller had reported that Anderson was waving the knife and threatening people around him, according to Webley. The dispatcher then said that there were then sounds indicating a possible struggle between the caller and Anderson.

Burbridge arrived alone first, followed by Campbell and Horn as a pair. After checking the back of the store, the officers then found Anderson in front of the store, according to Webley.

Anderson then allegedly approached the officers, yelling at Burbridge, "Just shoot me." After refusing to cooperate with the officers commands, the three then fired their weapons at Anderson, according to Webley.

The shots caused Anderson to fall to the ground and drop his knife. Medical aid was began and medics arrived shortly thereafter, and Anderson was pronounced dead soon after the arrival of the medics, Webley said.

While looking for the person who called 911, the officers discovered that Anderson was the one who called the police, Webley said.

Due to the circumstances surrounding the shooting, it was determined the officers were justified in their use of lethal force, according to Webley.