BRISTOL, Va. – Two people are dead in Bristol, Va. after a murder-suicide Wednesday morning.

According to Captain Darryl Milligan, police with the Bristol Virginia Police Department received a call at 7:30 a.m. Wednesday morning reporting a person being shot and an armed suspect still at the scene at 320 Vance Street.

The victim, identified as Jessica Hickman, was slumped over the driver's side of a Hyundai four-door sedan. The shooter, identified as Travis Hickman, was seated on the passenger side of the car and had a handgun, according to a press release.

When officers arrived and issued orders for Hickman to show them his hands, he shot himself in the head. The man was transported to Bristol Regional Medical Center where he was pronounced dead.

Hickman was pronounced dead at the scene.

Detectives with BPD investigated the incident and witnesses told them Jessica Hickman was shot by Travis Hickman prior to their arrival.

Shortly after 8 a.m., police swarmed the residence. Yellow police tape cordoned off the back yard as detectives searched the inside of the vehicle.

Members of the family, including children, filtered into the home as the morning wore on. One young girl was sobbing as she entered the house.

Around 9:15 a.m., a black SUV pulled to the back of the house and two detectives held up a white sheet as they pulled the woman’s body from the back of the car. Both bodies were expected to be transported to the Coroner’s Office for examination.

Travis and Jessica Hickman were married and had recently separated. Travis moved out of the house in early August. Police had been called to the residence before and police said those calls are still under investigation.

Hickman spent nearly two decades in prison on numerous charges in both Virginia and Tennessee. Almost all of his offenses occurred in 1997 or 1998.

According to court records, he was arrested and sentenced in Tennessee for felony aggravated assault, misdemeanor stalking, four counts of auto burglary, theft over $500, theft over $1,000, theft over $10,000 and possession of an item with an altered serial number.

He received an effective sentence of five years.

In Virginia, he received charges for felonious assault, grand larceny, possession of stolen property, credit card theft, robber and conspiracy to commit robbery.

Travis Hickman was sentenced to 18 years for those crimes.

Travis and Jessica Hickman were married on July 16, 2014 while Travis Hickman was still incarcerated.

UPDATE: A woman was shot and killed early today in the 300 block of Vance Street in Bristol, Virginia, according to Bristol Police Capt. Darryl Milligan.

Milligan said officers received a report of a domestic violence at about 7:30 a.m. A man shot himself as officers arrived. He was taken to Bristol Regional Medical Center. A report on his condition was not available.

Officers removed the woman’s body from a blue car shortly after 9 a.m.

BRISTOL, Va. — Bristol Virginia Police recovered a body from a car at a residence on Vance Street on Wednesday.

Detectives are still on the scene and have taped off the yard of the home.

Check back with the Herald Courier and follow us on Twitter and Facebook as we continue to get more information.