Houston police are investigating the fatal shooting of an armed male suspect by a Houston police officer at 16505 Tiffany Court about 10:15 a.m. on Saturday (Sept. 8).

The suspect, Ronald Singletary, was transported to Clear Lake Regional Hospital where he was later pronounced dead.

HPD Officer K. Drey, who discharged his duty weapon, was not injured in this incident. Officer Drey was sworn in as a HPD officer in March 1998 and is assigned to the Tactical Operations Division.

HPD Special Investigations Unit Officers J. Villareal, A. August, R. Delarosa and G. Potter reported:

At approximately 8:45 a.m., HPD officers were dispatched to the above address regarding a report of a suspicious person with a weapon. Upon arrival, officers were advised by a witness that gunshots were heard in apartment #7. Officers approached the apartment and heard the suspect (Singletary) yelling at them from an upstairs window. The officers asked Singletary to come outside and talk with them, but he refused. Singletary then fired at the officers from inside his apartment. The officers took cover and requested the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team respond to the scene.

Officer Drey was the first SWAT officer to arrive. As Officer Drey was putting on his tactical gear, he heard a gunshot from inside Singletary’s apartment. Officer Drey made his way through the complex and took cover behind some vehicles so he could see the back door of Singletary’s apartment. Multiple shots could be heard coming from inside the apartment as Officer Drey was taking his position.

Singletary then came out the back door, pointed a shotgun in the direction of Officer Drey, and the patrol officers, and fired it at the officers. Officer Drey returned fire, striking Singletary. Officers then attempted to render first aid to him prior to his being transported to the hospital.

As is customary in officer-involved shooting incidents within the city limits, this incident is being investigated by the HPD Special Investigations Unit and the Harris County District Attorney’s Office.

JKS/KJS 9-10-18

Inc. #114287818