Jocelyn Goyette, the 24-year-old passenger in an early Saturday morning crash that killed a new father and another man, has died, her family confirmed.



Goyette, a young mother, did not know 22-year-old Mickey Rivera well, her family told The Boston Globe. But early Saturday morning she was riding as a passenger when he fled police and collided head-on with an SUV in Contuit.



Rivera and the other driver Kevin Quinn, 32, both died. Quinn was a Marine veteran who served two tours of duty in Afghanistan. He was at the hospital visiting his wife and their newborn son before the crash.

Goyette's family told The Boston Globe that she had surgery at Cape Cod Hospital and was transferred to Boston Medical Center before she died on Sunday night.

"In the hospital, I sat next to her, just playing with her hands," said Goyette's mother, Kelly Spearman told the Globe. "I can't say I have to bury my daughter, because we are going to cremate her, but I have to do that when they're supposed to do that to me."



Goyette leaves behind her fiance, Jorge Martell, 29, and their 3-year-old son Javien.



"She was an incredible mother, incredible," Martell told The Globe. "I am just trying to do what she would have wanted me to do. Be a father and mother, play both roles for him."

The family said they are angry that a man they barely know took Goyette from them. In text messages shared with the Globe, Goyette told her cousin she had plans to go to the Cape. Her mother said she was at the Barnstable County Fair.

"I was supposed to go out to Cape Cod later with this kid, but now he is switching [expletive] up on me and I'm getting mad," she wrote, according to the Globe.

She texted another friend saying she was having a good time and would call when she got home in an hour or so.

"She was the victim," Martell told the Globe. "She didn't know anything about his felonies two years ago. She didn't know anything about him. She didn't know him from a hole in the wall."

Her family has set up GoFundMe page online to raise money for her funeral and the care of her son.