Carlos R. Munoz

carlos.munoz@heraldtribune.com

SARASOTA — A Sarasota police supervisor asked early in a pursuit Sunday morning if a chase that began in the City of Sarasota was the police department's responsibility or the sheriff's, according to a Sheriff's Office report released Wednesday.

The answer is part of an investigation into a deadly chase that resulted in the death of 22-year-old Terrance L. Tilley of Sarasota and injured his passenger after Tilley lost control of his car while allegedly fleeing police and hit a fence and a tree in the 1300 block of Myrtle Road.

A Sarasota police officer initiated an "investigatory traffic stop" at 2:45 a.m. Sunday after observing a 2006 Chevrolet SUV that fit the description of a stolen car. The driver, Tilley, did not yield for the officer near Martin Luther King Jr. Way and Orange Avenue and drove south on Orange in the city.

A sheriff's deputy in the area witnessed the pursuit and assisted police officers following Tilley, who was driving erratically and recklessly, the report said.

Tilley was "stomping on and off on their brakes," causing the lead SPD vehicle to slow down and the deputy to pass both cars to avoid a crash. The chase led into downtown Sarasota where the deputy, now leading the chase, attempted to disable the SUV, but was unable to make contact.

The pursuit continued north on Orange to Myrtle, where the driver turned left and drove over raised railroad tracks. The suspect's vehicle lost control and crashed into a fence and a tree just west of 1333 Myrtle St.

The Sarasota County Fire Department was called to extricate Tilley and his front seat passenger. They were taken to Sarasota Memorial Hospital for their injuries.

Tilley had an outstanding felony warrant in Broward County for failure to appear in court for possession of substitute cathinones, commonly known as "bath salts." He would have faced charges of fleeing to elude and operating a vehicle without a valid license, but the Sheriff's Office was notified that Tilley died of injuries sustained in the crash.

The passenger is still being treated, according to the Sheriff's Office.

The Sarasota Police Department is conducting the vehicle crash investigation and the District 12 Medical Examiner's Office will confirm Tilley's cause of death.

The police department patrol car involved in the chase had dashcam video and the footage is being reviewed by the Traffic Unit as part of the investigation. It will be released following the investigation, Sarasota Police Department spokeswoman Genevieve Judge said.

Walt Zalikso, a retired police chief and police best-practices expert who owns Fort Myers-based Global Investigative Group, said he believes the pursuit was justifiable and occurred when there was less chance for bystanders to get injured.

"The suspect, Terrance Tilley, showed no regard for human life by fleeing a lawful motor vehicle stop," Zalisko said. "He drove his car at officers and endangered others on the roadway. By applying his brakes on and off, he was attempting to have the pursuing officers crash into one another."

The retired chief said that Tilley's actions after a lawful stop dictated the outcome of the pursuit.

"His actions proved fatal to himself," Zalisko said. "The only issue not clear from the report is what response SPD gave when the supervisor asked if it was an SPD pursuit or the Sheriff's."