An Indianapolis man faces charges in a police pursuit that left his passenger dead and himself badly injured this month on the city’s south side.

IMPD officers spotted and tried to stop a stolen vehicle in the area of Walker Avenue and State Avenue just after 2 p.m. Aug. 10, spokesman Officer Michael Hewitt said. Authorities have identified Matthew Goode, 40, as the driver of the white Chrysler Sebring.

As an officer activated his sirens and attempted to catch up to the car, it accelerated, a probable cause affidavit said. A short chase ensued, during which the Sebring's driver ignored stop signs and traffic lights and moved at about 60 miles per hour, according to court documents.

Wrong-way crash:Former local DJ sentenced to probation for OWI crash

Indiana and the KKK:Here’s the truth about Adam Driver’s quote on the KKK in Indiana

The car eventually slowed down to around 40 miles per hour, an officer wrote in the affidavit. When it turned southbound on Meridian Street from Southern Avenue, the Sebring suddenly swerved into another officer’s car that had moved to the vehicle driver’s side.

Goode then lost control, driving through a fence and crashing into a tree at Concordia Cemetery, near the intersection of Meridian and Gimber Streets, police said.

The crash trapped Goode and his passenger in the car. Police were unable to open the wedged driver’s side door or the passenger’s side door that was blocked by the tree, the affidavit said. Officers removed two knives from the car — one was in Goode’s hand — so firefighters could extricate Goode, who was taken to Eskenazi Hospital in critical condition, according to the affidavit.

The female passenger, identified as Tracy Sears, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Goode is charged with resisting law enforcement by operating a vehicle in a manner that causes death. The felony offense carries up to 16 years in prison.

The affidavit says Goode also had an active warrant out of Brown County for failing to appear in court on felony drug possession charges.

Goode is due in court on Wednesday. Court records don’t list an attorney for him.

Call IndyStar reporter Crystal Hill at 317-444-6094. Follow her on Twitter: @crysnhill.