From left, attorney Jesus Eduardo Arias, Mexican consul in San Diego Carlos González and Dolores Rosales, mother of Marco Antonio Napoles-Rosales at a press conference at the Mexican Consulate in San Diego on Tuesday, December 10, 2019.

The family of Marco Antonio Napoles-Rosales, who died in August 2018 after a confrontation with San Diego Sheriff’s deputies, has filed a federal civil lawsuit against the department.

Sheriff’s deputies encountered Napoles at a gas station in Fallbrook on Aug. 16, 2018. A clerk called to say he was trespassing. A deputy first tried to help Napoles by letting him make several calls with the deputy’s phone.

He eventually was told to leave the property but soon returned. When a deputy tried to take him into custody for trespassing, a struggle ensued. One deputy was bitten on his thumb. A second who came to assist used a Taser but it had no effect on Napoles. Three deputies handcuffed Napoles but he continued to struggle. He was placed in a restraint device known as The WRAP, a blanket-like device that immobilizes someone while still allowing them to sit up and breathe.

Advertisement

While on his way to the hospital he stopped breathing, but was revived using CPR. A scan of his brain later revealed he had anoxic brain injury — an injury caused when the brain is deprived of oxygen. and he died the next day. An autopsy concluded the cause of death was sudden cardiopulmonary arrest caused by methamphetamine intoxication and exertion during the struggle with deputies, and the manner of death was undetermined. A toxicology screen noted he had methamphetamine and amphetamines in his blood.

Last August, District Attorney Summer Stephan released legal findings for five incidents involving San Diego sheriff’s deputies and city police over the past year, including the case involving Napoles, concluding no criminal charges would be filed.

The DA analysis noted Napoles was alert and breathing while in The WRAP, and neither the Taser nor the restraint device contributed to his death.

Napoles, 29 at the time of his death, was originally from Sonora, Mexico and came to the U.S. when he was 16. The eldest of three children, he was a hairdressing student and worked in El Monte barbershops. He had no criminal record.

After the death of her son, Dolores Rosales, who lives in Tijuana, asked the Mexican Consulate in San Diego for help.

The federal lawsuit filed Dec. 3 alleges sheriff’s deputies used excessive force in applying a choke hold, using a Taser and applying The WRAP. The lawsuit includes a video taken from the officers’ body cameras and by witnesses on the night of the arrest. The video was made public Tuesday at a press conference at the Mexican Consulate in San Diego announcing the lawsuit. The suit names as defendants Sheriff Bill Gore and 12 of his deputies involved in the arrest of Napoles.

“Even with the level of methamphetamine in his body, Napoles would not have died without excessive force. I doubt it,” said attorney Jesus Eduardo Arias, who represents Dolores Rosales.

Carlos Gonzalez, head of the Mexican Consulate in San Diego, said the Foreign Ministry will continue providing assistance to Rosales and condemned what he called the use of excessive force.

With tears in her eyes, Rosales thanked the Mexican consulate for their help and said she misses her son. “I still don’t understand what happened, I wonder why me, but I know that my son, wherever he is, he is still taking care of me,” she said.

The federal court process in San Diego is expected to begin next month.

Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a new law sponsored by San Diego Assemblywoman Shirley Weber that redefined the law under which officers and deputies are legally allowed to use deadly force. Under the new law, which amends an existing section of the state Penal Code, deadly force can be used only when it is “necessary,” and the actions of law enforcement that led up to the shooting can be considered in a legal review. Previously, the standard said deadly force can be used when it is “reasonable,” whatever may have happened before the encounter was not weighed in the final analysis. The law does not go into effect until Jan. 1.