LAS CRUCES - Gary Daniel McKinney was armed with a knife and had a slip-knot ligature wrapped around his mother’s neck when Las Cruces police officers entered their home — a home officers knew well — the evening of Thursday, Sept. 13.

One of the responding officers, an 11-year veteran of the Las Cruces Police Department, fired two rounds at McKinney, 47, as he stood behind his mother. McKinney was shot in the head and died later that evening.

The police officer who fired the fatal shots has not been identified publicly. The officer has been placed on administrative leave, which is standard protocol, and has not returned to duty.

This is at least the fourth officer-involved shooting — three of them fatal — in Las Cruces this year.

Incident

Police were dispatched to a report of a domestic disturbance about 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 13, at the home McKinney shared with his mother on the 2400 block of Tiffany Drive.

Police said McKinney’s 16-year-old daughter reported the incident and told a call-taker at central dispatch that her father threatened to shoot her and her grandmother, McKinney’s mother.

The girl told emergency responders that she didn't see a weapon, but said her father had said he had recently acquired one, Las Cruces Police Chief Patrick Gallagher said during a news conference Thursday.

When officers arrived on scene, they tried to enter through the front door, but no one answered, Gallagher said. “One of the officers, a K-9 officer, went around to the side of the house where he found an open door leading into the garage and called for an additional officer to come in and enter the home," he said.

Gallagher said two male officers were on scene.

“The two officers entered the home together through the garage. In the laundry room they followed the sound of the disturbance. They could still hear yelling and arguing. You can hear McKinney’s mother call for help,” Gallagher said. “The officer at that point made two announcements for McKinney to come out of the kitchen and if he didn’t comply he was going to release the K-9. There was no response from McKinney, he only continued to rant and rave.”

He said officers proceeded into the kitchen where they found McKinney armed with a knife and standing behind his 63-year-old mother.

“The officers encountered every domestic violence victim’s worse nightmare. McKinney was standing behind his mother and in his right hand he was holding a knife,” Gallagher said. “In his left hand he was wearing a glove with a ligature tied to the two middle fingers. He had a six-inch blade kitchen knife at the end covered in gauze, tape and a glove.”

The other end of the ligature had a slip-knot noose that was fastened around his mother’s neck, police said.

Gallagher said McKinney was given commands to step away from his mother, but he refused. The officer fired two rounds from his duty weapon and McKinney was struck once in the head.

Gallagher said McKinney’s mother took off the ligature and left the room. She was not injured.

History of domestic violence

During the news conference, Gallagher said in the last two years LCPD has responded at least 34 times to the McKinney residence. He said 27 of those times involved domestic violence situations.

“McKinney’s last arrest was February of this year. He was arrested for battery against a household member that again involved his mother,” Gallagher said. “Incidents have escalated recently at that household recently.”

Gallagher said there were two calls placed on Sept. 1 by McKinney’s teenage daughter.

“She indicated McKinney was having an episode and was hallucinating and had not slept for four or five days,” Gallagher said. “As a precaution, LCPD took McKinney into custody protection and transported him to Memorial Medical Center for evaluation.”

Gallagher said McKinney’s daughter has since been placed in foster care.

More:Friend remembers man killed in officer-involved shooting

Brian Bobbitt, a friend of McKinney's and his mother, was at the Tiffany Drive home the day after the shooting, and talked to the Sun-News.

Bobbitt and McKinney had worked together at a small tech company before both lost their jobs several months ago.

"He was very intelligent," Bobbitt said. "He knew a ton about history. But he'd put himself down. He was a nice guy; he just had problems."

McKinney struggled with heavy drinking, drug use, gambling and mental health problems, Bobbitt said. That prompted him to act erratically at times.

The multi-agency Officer-involved Incident Task Force is continuing to investigation the shooting. The task force includes investigators from New Mexico State Police, Las Cruces Police, the Doña Ana County Sheriff’s Office and New Mexico State University Police. Upon completion of their investigation, their findings are forwarded to the Third Judicial District Attorney’s Office.

Jacqueline Devine can be reached at 575-541-5476, JDevine@lcsun-news.com or @JackieIsDevine on Twitter.