Following a state investigation, the Manitowoc County District Attorney ruled a Manitowoc police officer's shooting that killed Bruce Smith was justified and lawful.

Manitowoc Police Chief Nick Reimer told Action 2 News, "The district attorney's office concluded that Officer (Fielder) Clark's use of force was justifiable and there is no probable cause to believe that Officer Clark committed any criminal offense. Based on these findings Officer Clark will be restored to active duty immediately."

According to the district attorney:

Smith was shot as firefighters and police officers responded to a fire alarm call September 16. A firefighter reported a suspicious person who was acting strangely and sweating profusely.

Officer Fielder Clark followed the man and recognized him. Smith lunged at him with a lighter, prompting Officer Clark to hit him with a stun gun but it had no effect.

Then Smith spun around and came back at Clark with a metal blade. Clark shot him in the chest and abdomen until Smith fell. That's when he saw the blade was a metal paint scraper.

Clark said he believed it was a knife and he wasn't afraid just for himself but people evacuating the apartment building behind them during the fire alarm.

An autopsy found methamphetamine and amphetamine in Smith's system.

"Under Wisconsin law, police officers are lawfully allowed to use deadly force when they have objectively reasonable belief that such force is reasonably necessary to protect themselves or others from the risk of serious bodily injury or death," District Attorney Jacalyn LaBre wrote.

"Officer Clark was given very little time to make the decision to use deadly force. He made previous, unsuccessful attempts to gain control of Bruce Smith through less than lethal methods. Officer Clark had used verbal commands and a Taser twice with no effect. Despite Officer Clark's efforts, he was faced with an individual who was coming towards him armed with a bladed object that appeared to be a knife.

"Officer Clark's split second decision to use deadly force under those circumstances appears consistent with his training and experience."