WARNING : This video contains graphic content and language. Viewer discretion is advised.



The Jacksonville Police Department released body-camera footage Wednesday that shows one of its officers shoot and kill a man who authorities said was wielding a knife during an argument with another man.

Stephen Dove, 50, of North Little Rock was fatally shot after officers responded to a reported stabbing about 10:30 p.m. Saturday in the 1400 block of Stanphill Road, police said.

Video footage shows Sgt. Ryan Wright fire twice at Dove, who was struck in the right shoulder and the left side of his back, according to police.

Wright has been placed on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, police said. Results of the investigation have been sent to the prosecuting attorney to determine if charges will be filed against Wright.

Officer Jordan Cline entered the residence with Wright. Cline, whose body-camera footage also was released Wednesday, did not fire her weapon and has returned to full duty, police said.

Body-camera footage shows Wright and Cline walking into a hectic scene, where they found 47-year-old Harold Wayne Munnerlyn outside the residence suffering from a cut.

"He cut me for no reason," Munnerlyn can be heard telling officers in the video.

Wright and Cline draw their weapons, enter the residence and creep into a hallway, calling out to Dove. As the officers enter the living room, 49-year-old James Parrish can be heard screaming frantically.

"He said he is fixing to kill him," Cline can be heard saying on the video. "There is blood everywhere."

Wright rushes forward in the video to find Dove standing over Parrish. Police said Dove had a knife to Parrish's throat.

"Get off him now," Wright yells in the video.

In the span of a couple of seconds, both officers can be heard multiple times ordering Dove to get off Parrish before Wright fires two shots at Dove. The shots came about three minutes after the officers' body cameras were activated.

"Jesus Christ," Cline can be heard whispering to herself as Parrish is rushed out of the residence.

The house goes quiet, and for a few seconds all that is heard on the video is Wright's rapid breathing and the crackle of his police radio.

"You're good, you're good ... breathe," Cline tells Wright.

After a little more than a minute, another officer arrives to treat Dove, and for the first time the suspect is clearly seen lying still on the ground. Dove died at the scene.

Video footage shows Wright taking multiple deep breaths outside the home before going to talk to the victims.

"I didn't get you, did I?" Wright asks Parrish repeatedly.

After talking to the victims, Wright is seen walking back to the residence and asking police if the suspect was still breathing.

"I am sorry," Cline tells Wright. "I am sorry."

Wright walks back into the residence for a few seconds and then back out.

"He was going to kill him," Wright can be heard saying in the video.

Police said Parrish suffered cuts and scrapes on his arms and an abrasion on his temple. Munnerlyn was taken to a hospital to be treated for a cut on his arm.

State Desk on 09/20/2018