Reba Sykes holds a photo of her son, Thomas Watkins III, who was fatally shot by Gary police in September. (Becky Jacobs/Post-Tribune)

A police officer acted in self-defense when he shot and killed a man in Gary in September, according to the Lake County prosecutor’s office.

The prosecutor’s office told the Post-Tribune of their decision Monday, nearly eight months after Thomas Watkins III, 38, was fatally shot Sept. 12 in the 600 block of New Jersey Street.

Advertisement

According to a Gary police report, two officers responded to a suspicious vehicle around 6 a.m. Sept. 12. As the officers approached a white SUV on either side, the officers noticed two people, a male and a female, were in the vehicle, the report states.

An officer spoke with the male, who was on the driver's side, and asked "what was going on and why was he in the driveway," the report states. The officer noticed the male was "wearing a shoulder holster, which people wear when they carry a firearm," according to the report.

Advertisement

The officer asked the man if he was carrying a firearm, and he mumbled, which caused the officer "not to understand what was said," according to the report.

The officer reported that the male "pulled a handgun from a unknown location and fired one shot," causing the officer to pull his duty firearm and "return fire striking the suspect," the report states. The other officer called shots fired and more police arrived on the scene, according to the report.

The Lake County Sheriff’s Department investigated the shooting, which was later turned over to the prosecutor’s office. The two Gary officers were placed on administrative leave pending the investigation.

The prosecutor’s office provided a letter, dated Jan. 4, to the Post-Tribune on Monday stating that “after a thorough review of the case materials involving the shooting incident … it is the decision of this office that criminal charges are not warranted in this matter.”

The Gary officer “was acting in the performance of his duties and acted in self-defense and in defense of another when he shot and killed Thomas Watkins III,” the letter states.

Chief Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Barb McConnell, who signed the letter, said Monday that only one officer fired a gun during the incident. McConnell declined to comment further about the case.

Shortly after Watkins was killed, Black Lives Matter-Gary announced their support of Reba Sykes, Watkins’ mother, in trying to find out information about the shooting.

Sykes told the Post-Tribune last fall that Watkins regularly carried a firearm, but the idea that he would shoot at police didn't make sense to her.

Advertisement

Born and raised in Gary, Watkins graduated from Wirt High School in 1999, according to his obituary. He had three sons and worked as a forklift operator, his mother said.

"He was a real good, sweet kind of person," Skyes said about her son.