LEAGUE CITY, Texas – A man was shot and killed by a police officer after he approached League City police with a folding utility knife, police say.

The officer-involved shooting was reported around 10:30 a.m. Wednesday in the 300 block of Waco Street in League City, officials said. Police were there to serve a search warrant when the man, Royce Leon Sedotal Jr., approached officers with the instrument, investigators said.

"It was scary. It was a very scary feeling," said Maryanne Beach, a neighbor who lives next door to where the incident happened. "I was in the laundry room and all of a sudden I heard sirens and a bunch of cop cars pull up."

League City police said the man was shot and killed at the scene. No other injuries were reported.

Sheriff Henry Trochesset said that deputies got a call to respond around 11 a.m., when the suspect was shot, to assist in the investigation with the officer involved shooting. Detectives with the Sheriff's Office interviewed witnesses and processed the scene for evidence.

The Sheriff said the suspect was wanted for escaping from custody Tuesday night after being arrested for a family violence charge.

"Officers, with a warrant, went to this address and was allowed entrance by the girlfriend. While searching for the suspect, they came in contact with him in a closet. He came at the officers with a sharp-edged object and was shot," Trochesset said.

Beach said she knows the woman who lived in the home.

"She has a younger son who comes over in the summer and he has to come play with my son. And she told me she was trying to get out of a really bad situation," Beach said. "You could hear at night -- things going on -- her screaming."

Police said as per standard procedure, the Galveston County Sheriff's Office is handling the investigation and the officer involved will be placed on paid administrative leave. The officer involved in the shooting was identified by police as 12-year veteran Shane Yount.

This investigation will be referred to a Galveston County Grand Jury.

The Galveston County Sheriff's Office Criminal Investigation Division and Identification Bureau are leading the investigation of the shooting. The Galveston County DA's office is also involved in the investigation.