KENT COUNTY, MI - A man shot and killed his estranged wife's mother and her boyfriend after his wife sought refuge with the couple to escape domestic violence, police said.

Lisa Bradley, 58, and her long-time boyfriend, James Cole, 54, died of gunshot wounds in their house at 10036 Rooksby Street NE in Spencer Township.

Her daughter, Samantha Lynn Huntley, 33, had taken the couple's two children - a boy, 4 and girl, 2 - to stay with her mother after Bruce Huntley, 33, was arrested last week for domestic violence.

He was released from jail after posting 10 percent of a $10,000 bond, records said.

Early Saturday, Sept. 22, Bruce Huntley forced his way into the older couple's home and shot and killed them. He then kidnapped his wife and two children and brought them back to their home at Ramblewood Apartments at 4222 Stoneridge Road SW in Wyoming.

Kent County sheriff's deputies found the couple dead while conducting a welfare check after an acquaintance was concerned that no one answered the door at their home.

When investigators realized the wife and children were gone, they contacted Wyoming police, who responded to the apartment complex. Police spotted Lisa Bradley's car in the parking lot.

A Wyoming police tactical team responded to the apartment complex. Police were able to contact Samantha Huntley, who confirmed she and her children were being held hostage by her husband.

Negotiators convinced Huntley to release his wife and children.

Huntley refused to come out and threatened to kill himself. After several hours, the tactical team entered the apartment and found Huntley dead of a self-inflicted gunshot, police said.

On Monday, the Kent County Medical Examiner's Office determine that Lisa Bradley and James Cole were victims of homicide while Huntley's death was determined to be suicide.

A GoFundMe page has been set up for Samantha Huntley and her children. It says, "Samantha has recently endured the tragic deaths of both her mother and husband. As you can imagine this is not only a huge emotional burden but also a financial burden. Please consider donating to support Sam and her two children with funeral costs and everyday expenses as she moves forward into this next phase of her life."

The killings happened less than a month after another couple was found dead in their home in Kent County, allegedly at the hands of their son-in-law.

Nathan Board, 33, is undergoing a psychiatric evaluation after he allegedly bludgeoned Patty and Theodore Syrek, after their daughter, Sarah, left him.

Board allegedly sneaked into the couple's Caledonia-area home while they slept then beat them with a blunt instrument, police say.