State Trooper Kevin Wolensky said he drew his gun on Jaime Lopez-Cabrera after Trooper Katherine Gorey said he had a weapon.

He was responding to the Coyote Flaco restaurant in Stanfordville on Sept. 25, 2018 to the report that a man was threatening a woman with a knife. Behind the building he found Gorey, a woman in a mini-van and Lopez-Cabrera, with a hand in his left pocket.

Wolensky said Lopez-Cabrera was gripping what appeared to be a “thick-handled knife” in the pocket.

Wolensky repeatedly shouted for Lopez-Cabrera to show his hands. Lopez-Cabrera refused, and moved toward him, closing the distance between them. Wolensky shot Lopez-Cabrera twice in the torso.

The Stanfordville man, who owned Coyote Flaco, died soon after being transported to MidHudson Regional Hospital.

More than one year later, State Attorney General Letitia James announced Wolensky’s use of lethal force was not a crime, as its justification could not be disproven.

James on Tuesday released a 65-page report on the incident. It was the product, she said, of an "exhaustive investigation" by her office's Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit, included video footage of the incident.

The only thing in Lopez-Cabrera’s pocket was an electric screwdriver without its tip, according to the report. However, Gorey said the man told her it was a weapon.

His wife, Araceli Parra, who was inside the mini-van, said Tuesday afternoon that she received the report from the attorney general, but it was too difficult for her to watch the video and declined comment.

Richard Lopez, Lopez-Cabrera’s cousin, said the family was given access to the video Monday but “we weren’t ready for it,” and were briefed on its contents by an attorney.

“I'm not happy about the decision but I understand the reason behind it,” he said. “Until I see the video I cannot say, ‘Yeah that makes sense,’ or that they are not seeing what I am seeing.”

Previously, the family and state police had identified the man simply as Jaime Lopez. In the report, he is identified as Jaime Lopez-Cabrera.

State police declined to comment on the report.

“We offer our deepest condolences to the family and friends of Mr. Lopez-Cabrera on the loss of their loved one," James said in a statement. "The Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit is committed to providing the public with an exhaustive and transparent inquiry into any death over which it has jurisdiction."

James said in the wake of the incident her office is recommending that all law enforcement officers across the state be mandated to undergo de-escalation training.

Police responded to the scene after Parra contacted his brother and the pair decided to call 911. The brother on the call said Lopez-Cabrera was threatening people with a knife, according to the report.

Lopez-Cabrera and his wife owned of the restaurant and property where they were. He was served with an order of protection a day before, according to the report, and was in violation of being there while drunk. She has told the Journal she obtained it in the hopes her husband would stop drinking — the restaurant was where he got alcohol — but found him in the eatery's office that morning with two knives out.

What the video, report showed

The shooting itself is partially obscured by the minivan. Lopez-Cabrera is seen mostly facing away from the camera and his hand in his pocket.

Through the first 11 minutes, Lopez-Cabrera is seen attempting to communicate with Parra, who is sitting in the passenger side of a minivan. He first removed a children's vehicle from blocking the back of the van but then, after failed attempts to enter the locked van, put the vehicle back behind it, as well as two trash cans.

Gorey comes into view of the camera around the 11 minute mark and is seen walking toward Lopez-Cabrera.

Parra handed Gorey the order of protection through the passenger-side window, the report said, and Gorey reported that she at that point understood Lopez-Cabrera shouldn't be there. The video shows Lopez-Cabrera walk to the front of the van and face Gorey on the passenger side. During this interaction, Lopez-Cabrera is seen putting his hands up and then down as Gorey holds the order of protection.

Gorey reported that when she asked Lopez-Cabrera if he had any weapons, he tapped his left pocket and laughed while saying "weapon." The footage doesn't show him laughing, as he is facing away from the camera but he is seen bringing his left hand to the left pocket. He didn't remove his hand from his pocket for rest of the video, per the report and seen on video.

Around the 12th minute of the video, Trooper Wolensky walks into view of the camera with his gun drawn. Around a minute later, Lopez-Cabrera moves toward Wolensky and the two disappear behind the van, before Lopez-Cabrera is seen falling to the ground.

Wolensky then is seen dragging Lopez-Cabrera a short distance from the van and puts him in handcuffs.

The Dutchess County Medical Examiner's office found that both bullets "contributed to hemorrhaging of Mr. Lopez-Cabrera's left lung," according to the report. The cause of death was identified as gunshot wounds to the torso, and the manner of death was homicide.

The medical examiner also said Lopez-Cabrera had a blood-alcohol content of .24.

Wolensky's perspective

Wolensky's account, per an interview conducted by the Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit on Oct. 13, sheds more light on the situation.

As a K-9 handler, Wolensky has a modified uniform that does not include a taser or pepper spray. He said he has a baton but does not carry it.

He said there was no contact with Gorey prior to his arrival on the scene, because their portable radios were not working properly. Upon arrival, he said Gorey communicated with him that Lopez-Cabrera had a weapon. He said he drew his gun as he stood on the passenger side of the minivan.

He said Lopez Cabrera was about 15 feet away from him with watery, bloodshot eyes, and smirked a few times when Wolensky gave him verbal commands. He said Lopez-Cabrera was walking at a normal pace toward Gorey and Parra.

He said he walked toward Lopez-Cabrera raising the tone of his voice repeating the commands "Show me your hands!" and "Take your hands out your pocket!"

Wolensky said Lopez-Cabrera started moving towards him. He said he repeated his command, "show me your hands," to which Lopez-Cabrera responded, "No, I don't want to."

Wolensky said this was the first time he realized Lopez-Cabrera understood and spoke English.

Lopez-Cabrera increased his speed as Wolensky was backing up, he said. He estimated Lopez-Cabrera was about 10 feet away from him when he fired his weapon.

According to the interview, Wolensky has been with New York State Police since July 2013. He began his career as an officer in the Town of Wallkill Police Department in 2008. Wolensky graduated from the K-9 academy less than a month prior to the shooting. He was started working with Troop K on Sept. 7, 2018.

This was the first time Wolensky shot his weapon while on duty.

Training for knife encounters

As part of the investigation, the Special Investigations and Prosecutions Unit delved into Wolensky's training when handling such encounters.

Investigators said trainees are taught "knife attacks can unfold within seconds and cause grave injuries including death," according to the report. The training stresses the refusal of a subject to show his hands "should be interpreted as a danger cue," and said "a firearm is the weapon of choice to use against a knife." Lopez-Cabrera in the video was also within the "21-foot reactionary gap" suggested when police are dealing with a subject with a knife.

The Attorney General's office concluded that "Wolensky’s use of deadly physical force against Mr. Lopez-Cabrera did not constitute a crime, because the defense of justification cannot be disproven beyond a reasonable doubt."

The report noted Wolensky's accounts could be collaborated by Gorey and visual evidence.

"Pursuant to New York State Penal Law ... Wolensky was permitted to use deadly physical force against Mr. Lopez Cabrera if (Wolensky) reasonably believed that such force was “necessary to defend (himself) ... from what (he])reasonably believed to be the use or imminent use of deadly physical force (by Lopez-Cabrera.)”

Differing accounts

The original release from state police in September 2018 differs slightly from the video. Police said they found Lopez-Cabrera armed with a knife and threatening a woman in a car upon arrival.

Parra's description of the events, told the Journal last week, also do not agree with sections of the video and report.

Para said she recognized Gorey, saying she frequented the restaurant and would often joke with Lopez-Cabrera. She said she told Gorey that her husband was not armed but may have a screwdriver in his pants.

In statement from the day of the shooting, Gorey said, "throughout this incident the only conversation that I had with the woman in the vehicle was through hand gestures.

"I could not understand anything that the woman was saying out loud, as she was speaking in Spanish, and I do not speak nor understand the Spanish language."

Gorey said she has never had prior knowledge of complaints at the restaurant, or personal interactions with "either party involved."

Ryan Santistevan: rsantistev@poughkeepsiejournal.com; 845-437-4809; Twitter: @NewsByRyan_. Katelyn Cordero: kcordero@poughkeepsiejournal.com; 845-437-4870; Twitter: @KatelynCordero.

Stanfordville shooting:

1 year after Stanfordville man was killed by state trooper, family waits for answers

Stanfordville man shot by state police owned building, restaurant

Brother of Stanfordville man killed by troopers says police were called for help