A man is dead following an officer-involved shooting in Putnam County Thursday morning, according to the Palatka Police Department.

Around 3:15 a.m. Thursday, Palatka Police Department officers were looking for 41-year-old Datwan Keyo Lewis after his girlfriend called 911 to report a domestic violence battery.

According to PPD, the incident happened at an apartment complex where she lives.

A short time later they spotted a white sport utility vehicle matching the description given by the victim and pulled over the driver in a parking at St. Johns River State College.

For breaking updates on this story, click here to download our Action News Jax app

Capt. Matt Newcomb said when officers approached the driver they noticed the man was armed with a handgun.

“He was given multiple commands to put that firearm down in which he did not, and they were forced to use deadly force,” said Newcomb.

Investigators said after the shooting Lewis hit the accelerator and crashed into three other parked cars.

He was then arrested and taken to the hospital where he died.

Palatka Police confirm this is the domestic battery suspect who was shot and killed by officers this morning, 41-year-old Datwan K. Lewis @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/dVLJXzMZJp — Lorena Inclán (@LorenaANjax) September 27, 2018

Palatka police released this photo of the alleged gun.

Across the street from the scene, dozens of family and friends gathered and formed a prayer circle.

Mt. Tabor First Baptist Church Pastor Karl Flagg urged the community come together and remain calm.

“What is needed at a time such as this is the words of God to provide comfort and consolation to the family,” said Flagg.

Action News Jax spotted the man’s girlfriend at the scene talking to investigators. She didn’t want to speak publicly but said she was “in shock.”

Community members and family praying at church near police-involved shooting scene @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/maLB3E3TQB — Lorena Inclán (@LorenaANjax) September 27, 2018

Palatka Mayor Terrill Hill urged the community to let the investigation take its course.

“We will surrender to the investigation and allow the investigation to be the telling story as to everything that happens and the circumstance,” said Hill.

Public records show Lewis had a lengthy criminal past in Putnam County including drug and battery-related arrests.

At least one of the officers was wearing a body camera but that footage will not be released at this time. The names of the two officers involved are also being held for the time being.

The superintendent of public schools was also at the scene he said there will be grief counselors are the schools where Lewis’ relatives attend.

Cox Media Group