JOHNS ISLAND, SC (WCSC) - The Charleston County Coroner’s Office has identified the man killed in an officer involved shooting on Johns Island Friday morning.

Joseph Dawson, 24, died on the scene after being shot by a deputy, according to Charleston County Coroner Dottie Lindsay.

At least one deputy is on paid leave after shooting and killing Dawson after authorities say he shot at deputies.

Shortly after 10 a.m. officers responded to Waldon Jones Road to a call of a man threatening to use a gun to shoot his wife and her acquaintances, according to Charleston County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Roger Antonio.

In a newly released report by the sheriff’s office, the wife, out of fear for her life, hid at a nearby property when her husband made the threats.

“She remained hidden while deputies confronted the subject,” Antonio said.

A Charleston County Sheriff’s Office report states the man had also allegedly threatened harm on law enforcement if they were notified.

The sheriff’s office said the man said he “wouldn’t go out easy” if police came close. According to the sheriff’s office, when deputies arrived, they attempted to confront the man about the threats, but were met with resistance.

Antonio said the man drew his gun during the altercation with deputies, which soon transitioned to a ground struggle.

According to the sheriff’s office, a deputy continued to struggle with the man on the ground, and while still armed, the man then shot at deputies during the ground struggle, at which point another deputy returned fire."

“A deputy returned fire, striking the subject,” Antonio said. “After the subject was shot, deputies evaluated themselves for wounds, then administered CPR to the subject.”

The sheriff’s office reported that there were no reported injuries to other citizens or deputies, and the firearm used by the man has since been secured.

Antonio said that per protocol, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division has been requested to investigate the incident.

“Also per protocol, the deputies that were involved were placed on administrative leave with pay, pending an internal affairs investigation by our Office of Professional Standards,” Antonio said.

Charleston County deputies say multiple units responded to the incident.

Dispatchers said the call came in at approximately 10:09 a.m.

Multiple units sent out to a reported shooting here on Humbert Road. I’ll have more updates soon #chsnews @Live5News pic.twitter.com/r2OJpCgBIh — Paola Tristan Arruda (@PaolaTArruda) September 28, 2018

A tweet from the sheriff’s office says the incident happened in the 3900 block of Humbert Road.

Copyright 2018 WCSC. All rights reserved.