AG: Officer-involved shooting last fall in Epping was justified

New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon MacDonald has determined that a state trooper was justified in firing his weapon at a driver during a traffic stop last fall.Authorities said the investigation showed that Walter Welch Jr., 40, of Fremont, died of multiple gunshot wounds on Sept. 29, 2018, after refusing to put down his gun. >> Download the FREE WMUR appPolice were originally called to the area of Exit 6 on Route 101 in Epping after receiving reports that Welch was driving erratically in a white pickup truck. Authorities said Trooper Kevin Dobson approached the pickup, which pulled off the exit, and asked Welch if he had been drinking. Welch responded by saying, "A lot," before grabbing his gun and firing a shot in Dobson’s direction, officials said.Authorities said Dobson retreated and ordered Welch to drop his weapon. When Welch didn’t comply, authorities said Dobson fired four shots through the back of the pickup truck’s cab.According to the medical examiner, Welch shot himself in the head before being hit by Dobson’s gunshots. Because the self-inflicted gunshot wasn’t instantly fatal, the manner of Welch’s death was ruled to be undetermined. The shooting was ruled justified because Dobson believed his life was in danger, officials said.

New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon MacDonald has determined that a state trooper was justified in firing his weapon at a driver during a traffic stop last fall.



Authorities said the investigation showed that Walter Welch Jr., 40, of Fremont, died of multiple gunshot wounds on Sept. 29, 2018, after refusing to put down his gun.

>> Download the FREE WMUR app

Police were originally called to the area of Exit 6 on Route 101 in Epping after receiving reports that Welch was driving erratically in a white pickup truck.

Authorities said Trooper Kevin Dobson approached the pickup, which pulled off the exit, and asked Welch if he had been drinking. Welch responded by saying, "A lot," before grabbing his gun and firing a shot in Dobson’s direction, officials said.

Authorities said Dobson retreated and ordered Welch to drop his weapon. When Welch didn’t comply, authorities said Dobson fired four shots through the back of the pickup truck’s cab.

According to the medical examiner, Welch shot himself in the head before being hit by Dobson’s gunshots. Because the self-inflicted gunshot wasn’t instantly fatal, the manner of Welch’s death was ruled to be undetermined.

The shooting was ruled justified because Dobson believed his life was in danger, officials said.