SAN PABLO — Police have identified the Oakley man who fatally shot himself during a routine traffic stop last month, in an incident still shrouded in mystery.

Marcus Lamont Bray, 41, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound Sept. 28, as he was being pulled over by a San Pablo officer. Police say they are still investigating whether it was a suicide or an accident.

“This incident is frustrating, and tragic for the family. They’re confused as well,” San Pablo police Lt. Brian Bubar said. “We’re working with the family and doing what we can to provide answers.”

But, Bubar added, “so far we still don’t know exactly why it happened.”

Court records show Bray had a warrant for his arrest in Santa Clara County. It was related to a grand theft charge that was filed in February, and alleged a violation in October 2017.

Around noon Sept. 28, in the 1400 block of Contra Costa Avenue, a San Pablo officer saw Bray driving a car with license plates that matched a different vehicle. As the officer was getting out of the car to approach Bray, he heard gunshots, according to a police news release.

The car Bray was driving then lurched forward, crashed into two parked cars and stopped. A gun registered to Bray — believed to be the weapon used in the shooting — was later found in the car, police said.

Because Bray died while police were pulling him over, authorities invoked Contra Costa County’s protocol for deaths where an officer is involved. That means the Contra Costa County District Attorney will conduct an investigation.

In coming months, the county coroner will hold an inquest into Bray’s death, which typically includes testimony from the officers involved. During inquest hearings, jurors are asked to pick a cause of death from four choices, in a decision that carries no civil nor criminal liability. The hearings typically take months to schedule.

Police ask anyone with information to contact the San Pablo Police Department at 510-215-3150 or the West Contra Costa Crime Stoppers Tip Line at 510-799-8255.