6 people who found something to be grateful for in 2020 Stories of people who stepped up, gave back and uplifted others this year Share Copy Link Copy

Hide Transcript Show Transcript

I would thank her because without her, my husband wouldn't be here today. And I think about her every day in a time where you know, a lot of people are thinking about themselves thinking about their own families, that they took the time. I want to help this family like they say, Walk him out on somebody else's shoes. You gotta do that, see what they're going through. Look at their prospective 2020 was quite a challenging year. But these stories show that even when things feel impossible, there's always something to be grateful for. It's like everything moves in slow motion, and I will never forget turning around and seeing him just fall forward and not move. It was a regular day for this active couple when suddenly Marianne Gayer watched as her husband, Stan, suddenly fell off his bike and went into cardiac arrest. They told me that I was essentially dead for about 10 to 15 minutes. Within moments to strangers rushed to their side. One performed CPR until the ambulance arrived. The other held Mary Ann's hand to pray. I would have died in their haste stand was rushed to the hospital, and Marion never got the name of the woman who saved his life. I would thank her because without her, my husband wouldn't be here today, and I think about her every day. But when this story aired on local news there, Angel was watching. I burst into tears. I kept watching it, and I just kept crying just because I was so happy that he's okay. As soon as I saw her eyes, I knew it was her meeting. Her was very special for me because I got to say thank you in person. I got to meet the woman that saved my life, and I got to express my gratitude to her for her act of kindness and charity. Once a stranger, Gina is now family to the Geier's life's very fragile and very resilient, fragile in that we can be here today and gone tomorrow. But resilient because with the kindness of passer byes, even when we face life threatening obstacles, waken continue to survive. Erica Star Robbins is the founder of Be a Blessing Birmingham unorganized ation that mobilizes neighbors to help those experiencing homelessness. When Erica met a single mother with six Children who had been living on the streets. She knew what she had to dio staying at a shelter. They missed curfew because she was on the bus with those six kids trying to look for housing and because they missed curfew, they got kicked out. When I picked them up, they didn't have anything. And by anything I mean anything. The mom had just a ah little grocery bag with, like, four diapers in it and some wipes and that's it. Erica shared their story, and support from the community started pouring in in a time where, you know, a lot of people are thinking about themselves thinking about their own families. If they took the time, I just want to help this family. Thanks to all the support, she was able to get them in an extended stay. Food and clothing. They're so cute. They excited to see me with all the hugs and the smiles. And then they immediately went to trying on everything we take the smallest things for granted. It's a reminder that we have so much to be thankful for so much to be grateful for, even in you know, these times that we're in right now, it takes time and ah ah, lot of lifting and cutting and the spirit of giving this family started a tree farm in New Mexico to spread the holiday cheer. Money is cool, but it's, you know, to make people happy, and families and businesses and livelihoods continue to go on through these crazy times. It's, I mean, no amount could could beat that. Basically, whatever you feel the tree is worth and you want to donate, it is totally fine. If you don't have any money at all in your family needs a tree, come on down and you're more than welcome to take one. Every dollar earned here was given toe local businesses impacted by co vid 19 Just seeing people affected by it. Family members, close friends that have lost their jobs, gone on unemployment. What a better time than Thio. Try and help people out that have been affected by all this stuff. Not only did the tree sellout, they raised $4000 to help local businesses. That's kind of all we want to do is just help in any way. We could make a difference in a few different lives that zit with fewer customers during the pandemic. This hometown coffee shop was on the brink of closing its doors. We didn't have a drive through, and we really didn't have curbside or any of that. We just closed. But Leo Font, who owns Fonte's coffee shop, fought hard to keep his staff employed. E don't wanna lay my people off. We want to keep them employed on. So we've been able to keep 100% of our staff on board. Little did Leo. No, a loyal customer was paying attention to their challenges and decided to do something about it. Way had a gentleman come in, Chris Dangler, who's one of our regular customers who comes in here and he enjoys the space, and he does a lot of work here. The next thing I know without my knowledge, he comes in the next morning and he donates $1000. Then he came back and he said, How's it going? I said, Really Well, he said, Well, I'd like to do another 500. The generous customers reasoning was simple. He wanted to spread some joy to the staff and their customers during a tough time. You wanted them to feel like they could come here and get a free cup of coffee. You know, a lot cappuccino, a brewed coffee in the holiday season. Especially right now. I mean, you know, giving back and taking care of other people that are less fortunate in our community should be something we all do every single day. Although he's only 10 years old, Ethan Hill knows that the best way to show your gratitude is to pay it forward. This lesson became real the day he met a homeless man on his way to school. His name is Mr Marcus, and he's a very nice man. He lives under the bridge, started to get cold. Oh, I was asking and Google it and see everything that I could do to help them and see what clothing they needed and what just what they needed. Thio to survive forming that relationship with Mr Marcus changed his life forever. I mean, it feels like it's not all about you. Is not, is not you story? Like they say, walk him out on somebody else's shoes. You gotta do that, see what they're going through. Look at their perspective. He founded Ethan Heart to collect essentials for people living on the street, toilet paper like to brush to face. So water rags Oh, everything that you are, you and me with me, which has become all the more important during the cove in 19 Pandemic. They still need to be protected from the virus. They need masks and gloves and hands entitled Ethan is message to everyone is simple. It doesn't take making your own organization. You can just go out and helping some Mormon station. You could help pass out food, and it doesn't require spending money sometimes so you can just go out and help. At only 18 years old. Shan Derek Dorsey, who his friends called Shammy, understands all too well the life threatening effects of Cove in 19. I didn't know I had, because I was. I was sick for like, four days before. Uh, I finally went to the hospital. I didn't want to go with my made me go on when I went in. I ain't come back out. 95 days later, Shammi developed pneumonia and had a heart attack while at the hospital, and at one point doctors weren't sure he'd survive. Really kind of hit me hard when The doctor tells me he was like, ma'am, he's not doing good at all. I really don't. I really just believe that he's not gonna make it through. He's not gonna make it through the night. Wasn't nothing going right that night, so I would idea was after I see what I said to the doctor. I got off the phone, that doctor and I got the praying. This is God. No, I'm telling the truth. I got pregnant. I gotta breaking hard. And then this morning, my baby was doing better. It was a battle that my baby was fine. But you wanna find myself because I was out here like riddle all you Terra could do was pray that her son would pull through. Actually told the team like if anybody know where purchase going down pale with my son. If I can't do it, let somebody else do it cause I'm a strong believer in God. He just can't fight. He fought, He fought. He felt that he was able to come out of there and he came out of there and he came out strong. Idiot. Thank God on here for that wolf. Now, my mom and I'm praying for and God knows what would have happened. E would like to tell the whole staff that I really appreciate every thing. I mean everything on the top of his head, down to the bottom of his speed, from even washing him from. But even sitting over there talking to him when I'm not able to be there, everything the doctors just taking care of him, I want appreciate them for everything that you now that Sammy is home life is something he will never take for granted. Yeah, I might not take the virus serious, but it's serious. Thank you. Like I really do think y'all deep down it's, uh, that work for you all and God knows what would happen. Ending a year like 2020 with gratitude may seem far fetched, but we hope all these stories remind you there is one thing we can always be thankful for, the kindness of others from all of us. Here it's stitch. Thanks for watching

GET LOCAL BREAKING NEWS ALERTS The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Your Email Address Submit Privacy Notice