The driver who in June sped through downtown Statesville at 90 mph and died after crashing his car was driving erratically before a Statesville officer began chasing him, officials said.

The new information ended three months of near silence from the Statesville Police Department on the June 17 crash that killed Shanun Tyrone Marion, 27.

SPD Interim Chief David Onley on Thursday responded to several questions the Record & Landmark had asked about the crash on June 19.

In his responses, Onley said the officer, 24-year-old Robert S. Lindenberger, was driving east on Garner Bagnal Boulevard that night when he saw Marion speed through a red light at the intersection with Buffalo Shoals Road.

Lindenberger turned onto Buffalo Shoals to catch up to the black Mercedes-Benz. As he approached West Front Street, he saw Marion speed through another red light, Onley said.

That’s when Lindenberger activated his blue lights and siren, the department claims.

“The vehicle was being operated erratically prior to the officer attempting to stop the vehicle,” Onley said. “The vehicle was accelerating at a high rate of speed prior to the officer activating his lights and siren. The vehicle continued at a high rate of speed after (the) officer activated lights and siren.”

As Marion drove down West Front Street toward downtown Statesville, Lindenberger followed at about 80 mph “in an attempt to catch up to the vehicle,” Onley said.

The N.C. Highway Patrol, which investigated the crash that followed, estimated Marion was going around 90 mph when he approached Tradd Street. That’s when Marion’s car traveled down a hill, bottomed out, crossed the center line and hit a concrete culvert.

The car then spun out and “went straight through a telephone pole and a tree” before coming to a rest on its roof in the parking lot of Wayne’s in the 200 block of East Front Street, Trooper J.N. Chapman said in June. Marion, the only person in the car, died at the scene.

Lindenberger was at the intersection of South Center and West Front streets when he saw Marion crash, Onely said. The incident was recorded by Lindenberger’s dashboard camera, but that footage is not public record.

The officer remained on duty during an internal investigation by the department.

Chapman said his investigation did not find drugs or alcohol to be factors in the crash. He said that after talking with family members, it appeared Marion may have been speeding because he was upset about something.

The Highway Patrol would not provide information about the events before the crash, including Lindenberger’s actions.

After the crash, SPD, under the leadership of former chief Joe Barone, said it would not answer questions about the crash until after the SPD and Highway Patrol investigations wrapped up. The department also refused to name the officer involved until the Record & Landmark submitted a public records request.

The Record & Landmark renewed its request for answers in August and was told City Attorney Leah Messick would need to first review the questions to determine what the city could release.