DAYTON — UPDATE @ 4:11 p.m. (Dec 21):

A Moraine police officer who was involved in the September 11, 2018, fatal crash won’t face any criminal liability, after a grand jury on Friday declined to indict him.

RELATED: Police chase reached 80 mph just before collision killing Realtor

According to the Montgomery County Prosecutor’s Office, 12 witnesses were involved in the investigation.

The officer was responding to a police pursuit and another car that had been displaced as a result of the chase was thrust into the officer’s path. The officer then struck that car, killing Lebanon Realtor Mary Taulbee.

EARLIER REPORT (Dec. 20):

An 18-year-old Dayton woman accused of stealing a Jeep and leading Moraine police on a chase that killed another woman pleaded guilty to charges Thursday.

Driver in deadly police chase says she stole Jeep to avoid rape Alyssa Irwin-Debraux

Alyssa Irwin-Debraux was convicted of involuntary manslaughter, failure to comply and grand theft of a motor vehicle, according to the Montgomery County prosecutor’s office. She is scheduled to be sentenced Jan. 18.

The chase resulted in the death of 57-year-old Mary Taulbee.

On Sept. 11, a Moraine officer engaged in a high-speed chase with Irwin-Debraux, heading south on Ohio 741 in Miami Twp.

During the chase, a car heading north on Ohio 741 attempted to pull over into another lane to prevent being hit by the Jeep, according to the prosecutor’s office.

The car hit the back of a Hyundai being driven by Taulbee.

RELATED: Lebanon Realtor’s car was pushed into path of Moraine police cruiser in deadly crash

The impact caused Taulbee to lose control of the car and spin in front of the Moraine cruiser.

The cruiser struck the Hyundai, killing Taulbee.

Irwin-Debraux continued to flee until she crashed into another vehicle and flipped the Jeep onto its top near the Dayton Mall entrance.

She fled on foot to a nearby gas station, where she was arrested by Miami Twp. police.

RELATED: Suspect in deadly Miami Twp. police chase indicted on charges connected to theft of vehicle

A grand jury indicted Irwin-Debraux on Sept. 24 on grand theft of a motor vehicle.

She pleaded guilty to the charge Thursday, as well as additional involuntary manslaughter and failure to comply charges.

Irwin-Debraux remains in the Montgomery County Jail.

MORE RELATED LINKS:

Driver in deadly police chase had drugs in system, no license

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com.