The 20-year-old Hickman County driver in a single-vehicle wreck that killed two other teenagers, who allegedly was in a “drag race” just before crash, was indicted on multiple charges including vehicular homicide, according to court documents.

Michael Fitch, of Bon Aqua, who was 19 at the time of the September wreck, was indicted by the Dickson County Grand Jury this month on two counts of vehicular homicide by driver intoxication, two counts of homicide by recklessness, vehicular assault by DUI, evading arrest, and drag racing.

Layton Woodard, 17, and William Howard, 17, both passengers in the car and Hickman County residents, were killed in the wreck that occurred 12:15 a.m. Sept. 8, according to the Tennessee Highway Patrol. Both were seniors at East Hickman High School. Another passenger was Woodard’s 15-year-old sister, Chelsie, who sustained a traumatic brain injury.

A sheriff’s office deputy observed the 1999 Chevrolet Lumina driven by Fitch and a motorcycle — that driver currently remains unnamed — accelerate at high speeds while driving south on Highway 46 South, near the Interstate 40 ramp. The driver, Fitch, swerved into the motorcycle’s lane, according to the Dickson County Sheriff’s Office officials.

“Due to the reckless manner, to themselves and other citizens traveling the roadway, (Deputy Sheriff Kevin Salewsky) turned on his emergency blue lights,” a sheriff’s office press release stated.

The Lumina then turned east onto Old Highway 46 South, traveling in the middle of the road, the release states, while the motorcycle continued south. Salewsky could see “several people inside the car” and felt it was “critical to stop the driver” due to the reckless driving and possible impairment of the driver, the release says.

The Lumina driven by Fitch pulled to the end of Old Highway 46 and stopped. Salewsky attempted to exit his vehicle when the Lumina sped off, the release states.

“(Salewsky) was unable to catch up to the vehicle due to its high speeds. Deputy Salewsky lost sight of the vehicle and slowed down about a half mile down Tidwell Switch Road, the release states.

Then Salewsky came to the first sharp curve on Tidwell Switch Road “and observed the vehicle smoking beside a tree. He got out of the car to render aid and call for assistance.”

Prior to this school year, Layton and Chelsea lived in Fairview and Layton attended high school there previously.

Michael Fitch is being held on $100,000 bond with arraignment Jan. 14.

Driver in Dickson wreck that killed two Hickman County teens was fleeing from deputies, THP says

2 Hickman Co. teens killed in Dickson Co. wreck, 2 other teens injured