A 24-year-old was killed early Sunday morning in downtown Nashville when he was hit by a car driven by a 17-year-old fleeing following a carjacking.

Corey Joseph Taylor had been visiting Nashville from Jonesboro, Arkansas when he was hit and killed by a teen carjacker, according to Metro police.

Taylor’s family told News 2 that he was loved by many and will be missed.

According to Taylor’s brother, he was in town to participate in the Tough Mudder mud run.

Metro police say Taylor was walking near the intersection of 1st Avenue North and Gay Street when he was hit by a 2012 Kia Forte around 12:36 a.m. Sunday.

A 17-year-old was behind the wheel.

The teen suspect stole the car after he allegedly robbed two people at gunpoint inside the Creekstone apartment complex in Donelson.

“We were probably three foot away from the door and a black male came up behind us and pulled a gun out,” said Nathan Nadol. He and a female friend were walking back to his apartment when they were robbed.

“He then put her in the execution position and put the gun to her head,” Nadol said. “He told us to give him everything we had, or he was going to shoot both of us at point blank.”

The friend handed over her keys and the teen took off in her car. Nadol then ran to the apartment where his roommate was inside.

“I heard banging on the door. Really really hard, really fast,” said Dylan Debenedetto. “We open the door and he’s like ‘Dylan give me my keys. Jasmine’s been robbed at gunpoint!”

Nadol jumped in his car and took off after the teen, reaching speeds of up to 150 miles per hour on I-40.

Nadol also called 911 and Metro Police met him downtown.

“The officer actually put his lights on and the teen took off probably doing 80 miles an hour,” Nadol told News 2.

According to a release, a Metro officer gave chase that lasted less than 30 seconds. Once the Kia got to the intersection of 1st Avenue and Gay Street, it attempted to turn left.

Police said the Kia struck the curb, traveled across Gay Street and went onto the sidewalk. The car hit Taylor and a utility pole before stopping.

Taylor died at the scene.

Officers say the 17-year-old got out of the Kia with a pistol and jumped down a steep wooded embankment that leads to the Cumberland River.

Police said the teen was arrested after they manned a boat and responded to the riverbank area.

He was taken to Vanderbilt Medical Center to be treated for injuries he got when he jumped onto the embankment.

He was transported to juvenile detention after his release from the hospital.

“It’s a tragedy that the guy was hit and killed. My heart goes out to his family,” Debenedetto said. “I just wonder is it worth it? Young kid, you got your whole life ahead of you and you just threw it down the drain by doing something stupid. It just doesn’t…it doesn’t make sense.”

Detectives are still investigating the carjacking, but charges are anticipated against the 17-year-old in connection to the incident.

Friends of Corey Taylor’s family have set up a Go Fund Me account to help with funeral expenses. Click here to learn more.

News 2 is tracking crime where you live with CrimeTracker reports. Click here for more coverage.