A retired Army veteran and motorcycle fanatic killed in a crash alongside the Ludowici police chief will be laid to rest this weekend.

MSG Marvin L. Pope, Sr. will be buried in his hometown of Hawkinsville, Georgia on Saturday, Sept. 22.

Pope, 61, was a bystander, hit by a drunk driver during a high-speed police chase on Highway 84. Ludowici Police Chief Frank McClelland also fell victim to the crash.

According to his obituary, Pope proudly served his country for 29 years in the United States Army, retiring at the rank of Master Sergeant. He served several tours overseas and was stationed locally at a number of posts, including Fort Stewart, Fort Benning and Fort Jackson.

Pope was also a 33-year member of the Outcast Motorcycle Club, according to his obituary.

His family shared the following statement with News 3:

The Pope family is extremely humbled by the overwhelming love and compassion we’ve been embraced with, by those both near and afar. His wife (Lilli), daughter (Dinta), son (Marvin Jr.), and granddaughter (Ayanna) are all absolutely thankful for the unparalleled warmth the community has so graciously extended. Master Sergeant Marvin Lanier Pope dedicated his life to serving his country, along with his community: however, that pales in comparison to one of his first loves and frequent catharsis, which was being on the open road as often as possible. Anything ever given or bestowed by him was always done so humbly and without any hesitation or trace of disingenuousness. It’s not very often that someone so effortlessly, decisively, and gladly bears the burden of all that has to be: yet, if you knew him well, you knew it was always his nature to do so graciously. We’re so honored to share his legacy with all of you, and we sincerely wish there was more we can give in exchange for all of the kind words and encouragement you’ve given to us. We continue to extend our hands to the McClelland family, as they have done to us – and we thank each of you again.

Online condolences can be made at the Carter Funeral Home website.

The wake will take place from 5 to 8 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 21 at Carter Funeral Home Oglethorpe Chapel in Hinesville. Graveside services with full military honors will be held for Pope on Saturday at Pine Bloom Cemetery in Hawkinsville.