CLARIFICATION: This report updates the type of use of force reports in Thomas Webster IV's file.

GREENSBORO, Md. — A federal lawsuit has been filed over the September 2018 death of a Black teenager after a struggle with police officers in a town on Maryland’s Eastern Shore.

The lawsuit argues 19-year-old Anton Black’s death was the direct result of officers’ excessive use of force and that public officials conspired to protect those officers from the consequences of their actions.

"In investigating this matter, it is staggering how much was done wrong in this case, that was improper, illegal, unethical and in fact disgraceful. But today, we took a bold step toward justice for Anton Black and against the police officers who took his life and also against those who were complicit in covering up the injustice," Ken Ravenell, a lawyer representing Black's family, said in a Thursday news conference.

The lawsuit has been filed on behalf of Anton Black's parents, Jennell Black and Antone Black, Katyra Boyce, the mother of Anton's only child, and the Coalition for Justice for Anton Black.

A lengthy list of defendants has been named:

Former Greensboro police officer Thomas Webster IV.

Former Greensboro Police Chief Michael Petyo.

Ridgely Police Chief Gary Manos.

Centreville Police Officer Dennis Lannon.

the town of Greensboro.

the town of Ridgely.

Assistant Medical Examiner Russell Alexander.

Maryland Chief Medical Examiner Pamela Southall.

Maryland Chief Medical Examiner David Fowler.

Maryland's Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

What happened to Anton Black?

Webster, then a police officer for the Caroline County town of Greensboro, responded to Anton Black’s neighborhood on the night of Sept. 15, 2018, for a 911 call reporting a suspected kidnapping.

Webster confronted Black, who police said was seen pulling a 12-year-old boy down the street. Black’s family later told The Associated Press the boy was a friend who was in no danger.

Body camera footage, which was released in late January 2019, showed Black starting to flee after Webster told him to put his hands behind his back. A brief chase ensued as Webster acknowledged over his radio that Black suffered from a mental health disorder.

The chase ended with Black hopping into the driver's seat of a parked car outside of his mother's home. An officer broke the car window and used a Taser on Black.

After Black got out of the car, he struggled with Webster, as well as Manos, Lannon and a civilian. Manos and Lannon were off-duty at the time.

Black was put in handcuffs and ankle restraints while lying on his chest and stomach. The lawsuit states Manos put his "weight atop Anton's ... body for the next six minutes or more, even when Anton stopped moving, and even with the other men further restraining him in additional ways, such as by holding his legs."

More:Man died after attempting to kidnap child

More:Former Dover cop who kicked man in face involved in death of Maryland man

More:Former Dover officer may not have been vetted fully in Maryland

As Black was being restrained, the officers told his mother, who had come out of the home, that the incident was being handled as a mental health emergency, rather than a criminal arrest, and that he would be taken to a hospital.

The lawsuit argues the officers' actions ran contrary to the Greensboro Police Department handbook at multiple points during the escalating confrontation.

For example, the document explains that “mere flight from a pursuing officer . . . is not good cause for the use of the TASER to apprehend an individual" and that a person should not be put on their stomach "for an extended period," because it "could reduce the person's ability to breathe."

About 10 minutes into the body camera footage, officers rolled Black over from his position restrained on his stomach. He appeared unresponsive, but one of the officers can be heard saying, "He's breathing, and he's got a pulse."

Black didn't answer his mother, who was repeatedly calling his name, and after a couple of minutes, she told the officers, "He's turning dark." Black was released from the handcuffs and CPR was administered.

Black was taken to an Easton hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

"I’ve seen a lot of things. I’ve never seen anything so brutal as what they did to my child," Black's father said during Thursday's news conference.

"This is a good kid. He had big dreams. He didn’t do anything wrong. My child didn’t have a knife, didn’t have a gun, didn’t have a stick or brick."

Two years have gone by, but Anton's sister La Toya Holley said the passage of time hasn't made living without her younger brother any easier.

She mourns not being able to see him grow older and become a father. Boyce was seven months pregnant with Black's daughter when he died.

"And the fact that they took that opportunity from that baby is not right. She will never, ever get to feel her father hold her or hug her or kiss her or try to make her feel better if she’s not having a good day. All of those opportunities have been stolen from his daughter, and it’s not right. It’s not right," Holley said.

Why weren't the officers involved prosecuted?

Webster had a history of misconduct allegations dating back to his time with the Dover Police Department.

He was captured on dash cam footage in August 2013 kicking a Black man in the head while he was unarmed and getting into a face-down position on the ground at gunpoint. Webster broke the 33-year-old's jaw.

He was acquitted of an assault charge in that case, but left the department as part of a 2016 agreement that stipulated he never again seek employment with the city.

The town of Greensboro hired him in spring 2018, despite the concerns of those who reached out to public officials.

"Indeed, the extensive national reporting on Officer Webster’s violent conduct led to an outcry when the town of Greensboro announced his hire, both from residents of Greensboro and from civil rights advocates like La Mar Gunn, the president of the Central Delaware chapter of the NAACP, who reached out to the Greensboro Town Council in an effort to dissuade the town from hiring Officer Webster," the lawsuit states.

Webster was certified as a Maryland police officer based on what former Greensboro Police Chief Michael Petyo submitted to the Maryland Police and Correctional Training Commission. Petyo pleaded guilty in January 2020 to intentionally misrepresenting and omitting facts.

The commission was aware that Webster had been acquitted of the 2013 assault charge, but did not know about the nearly 30 use-of-force reports in Webster's file from Dover until after Black's death, according to The News Journal.

Webster was taken off street duty when Maryland State Police launched its investigation into Black's case, and a Greensboro official confirmed as of August 2019 that he was no longer employed by the police force.

As for charges in Black's case, the Caroline County State's Attorney's Office rejected calls to bring the case before a grand jury after a Maryland medical examiner ruled Black's death an accident.

An autopsy report released in January 2019 concluded "it is likely that the stress of his struggle contributed to the decedent's death," but that "no evidence was found that restraints led to the decedent being asphyxiated."

The plaintiffs are pushing back against that narrative.

The complaint contends that "almost immediately, police officials began developing a narrative to absolve themselves of any wrongdoing."

Black's family along with the Coalition for Justice for Anton Black spent months calling for accountability and transparency from public officials, including the release of body-worn camera footage, toxicology results and the autopsy report.

A day after Gov. Larry Hogan intervened by publicly calling for answers about the case records were released in January 2019.

More:Maryland bill named for Anton Black, who died after police struggle

More:Pocomoke City manager resigns amid controversy about death while in police custody

More:We asked 6 law enforcement agencies for misconduct data. Here's how they responded

"When the State finally released its autopsy findings, officials outrageously contended that Anton’s bipolar disorder was a contributing cause of death, as opposed to the law enforcement officers’ brutal actions in chasing, tasing, and pinning Anton down under hundreds of pounds of weight for six minutes until he lost consciousness and stopped breathing," the lawsuit states.

The complaint alleges law enforcement "improperly influenced" the medical examiner.

The lawsuit points to a supplemental Maryland State Police report which included discussion with the medical examiner that "Black's neck looked good" as proof they "wished to rule out evidence of physical violence and asphyxiation by police."

Ravenell said the plaintiffs' legal team sought out its own experts who have had no trouble concluding Black died from "positional asphyxiation" after reviewing the evidence for themselves.

"Instead of calling this a homicide, a death at the hands of others as the video clearly shows, the police fed information to the medical examiner, who then concluded that Anton died of natural causes. The medical examiner ignored well-recognized and accepted standards of forensic pathology in concealing that Anton had died of asphyxiation at the hands of the police," Ravenell said.

Richard Potter of the Coalition for Justice for Anton Black said the way the medical examiner's report was crafted demonstrated a coordinated effort to make sure the officers involved were shielded.

He is hopeful the lawsuit is a step toward accountability and healing for the Greensboro community.

"Today, the pendulum of justice has moved just a little bit closer in the right direction," Potter said.

'I just want to get justice for my son'

The implications of the allegations against the medical examiner are far reaching, said René Swafford, another Black family attorney.

If it had not been for the officers' excessive use of force, she asserted that Anton would still be alive.

"Deliberately substituting what Anton died with instead of what he died from as his cause of death sends the community an undeniable message that they refuse to convict white officers who assault Black people," Swafford said.

With tears in her eyes, Jennell Black stressed her goal is to make sure this never happens to another family.

"No family should have to go through what we went through," she said. "I just want to get justice for my son."

The case is not simply about three white police officers and a civilian killing a young Black man, said Sonia Kumar, a senior staff attorney for the ACLU of Maryland, which is representing the coalition.

What sets it apart is the fact that Anton Black's family and their supporters are taking on government officials, who became complicit in Black's death, Kumar said, when they perpetuated a "false narrative."

“I don’t think it’ll be of any surprise that part of what we’re seeking here is change, part of what we’re seeking here specifically is for the courts to declare that what happened here was illegal and to help us in requiring that going forward the various entities involved take steps to prevent it from happening ever again," she said.