Sun-News report

Las Cruces Sun-News

LAS CRUCES - The four Las Cruces Police officers who fired multiple shots at a man lunging toward a handgun — ultimately leading to the man's death — have been cleared of wrongdoing.

The 3rd Judicial District Attorney’s Office concluded the use of force was justified and no action will be taken against the four officers — Nathan Krause, Manuel Frias, Keegan Arbogast and Sgt. Tate McBride. Thursday was the first time authorities released the names of the officers who fired weapons in the incident.

Lapel camera video from the Sept. 27 incident on the Las Cruces High School campus shows that Juan Angel Pinedo failed to obey multiple commands and lunged toward a handgun the moment before officers discharged their weapons.

Pinedo, 32, died from multiple gunshot wounds. Officers fired 19 rounds at Pinedo and he was struck eight times, police said.

The shooting was investigated by the Officer-involved Incident Task Force which includes investigators from New Mexico State Police, the Las Cruces Police Department, Doña Ana County Sheriff’s Office and New Mexico State University Police. Once completed, results of the investigation are turned over to the Third Judicial District Attorney’s Office for review.

One of the officers who shot at Pinedo — Frias, an 11-year veteran — fatally shot Jeremy Lopez-Robledo in January 2017. Frias was cleared of wrongdoing in that incident . Frias was also one of two officers cleared in the fatal shooting of Antonio Medrano Jr. in January 2010.

The other officers involved in the Pinedo shooting were Krause, a 10-year veteran of LCPD; Arbogast, a four-year veteran; and McBride, who has been with LCPD for 11 years.

Previous shootings

Pinedo had an active felony warrant for his arrest from a shooting that occurred six days prior. On Sept. 21, Pinedo was accused of being armed with a black handgun that he pointed at his ex-girlfriend's current boyfriend on the 200 block of Reymond Street.

The ex-girlfriend intervened and Pinedo drove away, police said. Witnesses indicate that as Pinedo drove away, he fired two rounds into the air. At the time, Pinedo had an active order of protection against him that prohibited him from possessing a handgun.

Authorities issued a felony warrant for Pinedo's arrest on Sept. 22.

Police said the ex-girlfriend also reported hearing gunshots near her backyard during the early-morning hours of Sept. 24 and investigators later found three spent shell casings that matched the casings from the Sept. 21 shooting.

Pinedo located

About 5 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 27, Las Cruces police and agents from the U.S. Marshals Service learned that Pinedo was inside a second-story apartment at 1101 E. Boutz Road. A woman at the apartment refused to allow authorities in and denied that Pinedo was there, police said. Roughly 30 minutes later, officers spotted Pinedo jump from a second-story apartment window and run north. The officers saw Pinedo carrying a black handgun, police said.

Officers lost track of Pinedo until shortly before 6 p.m. when a witness called 911 to report a suspicious man near an apartment complex at Montana Avenue and Jones Road, police said. Officers then learned that an armed man was seen running south through a pair of practice fields on the west side of the Las Cruces High School campus.

Both baseball and softball fields were occupied by youth teams at the time.

Officers converged at the school, police said, and followed reports that an armed man was running south and possibly jumped a chain-link fence that separates the school campus from an irrigation ditch. Police said a nearby homeowner told officers that a suspicious man briefly jumped into his backyard, which is adjacent to the LCHS campus.

Chase ends

Shortly after 6 p.m., officers spotted Pinedo along the ditch bank and jumping the chain-link fence back onto the LCHS campus, police said. Officers saw that Pinedo was armed with a handgun as he scaled the fence. As Pinedo jumped the fence, he lost possession of the handgun, police said, but was standing in close proximity to it as officers approached.

Investigators later determined Pinedo had in his possession a 9 mm Hi-Point semiautomatic. It had one round in the chamber, and its magazine contained several additional rounds, police said. The gun and magazine were a few feet apart from one another, police said, and were possibly separated when Pinedo jumped the fence and the gun fell to the ground. Police said the gun's serial number appears to have been intentionally obliterated.

Police said lapel camera audio confirms officers gave at least 11 commands for Pinedo to raise his hands and step away from the handgun. Lapel camera video shows that Pinedo briefly complied. He could be seen with his back to the officers, and his back toward the gun, with his arms raised into the air, police said.

Instead of continuing to comply with officers' commands, Pinedo "quickly lowered his hands, turned around and lunged toward the handgun," according to investigators.

All four officers fired multiple rounds. Police did not say how many rounds were fired.

When news breaks, follow the Las Cruces Sun-News for the most timely, accurate information. Make it easier with an online subscription.

Officer-involved shootings in 2018

Las Cruces police officers shot at suspects in six different incidents last year. Pinedo was the fourth suspect killed by police in 2018. Officers in all of the incidents have been cleared of wrongdoing.

Related:LCPD chief 'concerned' about spate of officer-involved shootings in city

Recent crime news: