An Oak Ridge police officer followed policy and the law in the shooting that killed a man in front of the Anderson County Clerk's Office in October, authorities said Thursday.

Officer Nathan Gibson fatally shot Isaiah Ramirez, 36, of Clinton the night of Oct. 8 in the parking lot at 728 Emory Valley Road after a chase as Ramirez drove toward him in a pickup and refused to stop, a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation probe found. Police had been trying to serve Ramirez, a felon, with warrants for domestic assault, aggravated burglary and probation violation, said Dave Clark, Anderson County district attorney general.

"Gibson had a reasonable basis to believe at the time that the suspect ... posed a threat of death or serious bodily injury to him," Clark wrote in a release. "Thus, Gibson was legally entitled to use lethal force. ... While gunshots were the immediate cause of Ramirez's death, it was Ramirez's own decisions and conduct that were responsible for his death."

How the shooting happened

The chase began around 6:30 p.m. when officers looking for Ramirez drove past him on the way to a home on Cumberland View Drive where he'd been hired to do renovations, Clark wrote. When police approached, Ramirez climbed in his truck and started the engine as Gibson and another officer cracked and shattered his windows with their batons. He drove away.

When another officer tried to block the road, Ramirez nearly ran over an officer and led police on a chase through a red light and into the parking lot on Emory Valley, almost sideswiping another officer's car in the process.

As Ramirez circled the parking lot, Gibson blocked the exit and got out of his cruiser, gun drawn. He ordered Ramirez to stop, but Ramirez backed up and then drove forward, toward Gibson, Clark wrote.

"Gibson fired his weapon three times through the front windshield," Clark wrote. "Ramirez struck Gibson in the leg with his vehicle."

The truck went a little further and hit a parked bus before stopping. Ramirez, who'd been shot twice in the chest, died at a hospital.

An autopsy found Ramirez had been on oxycodone and other prescription drugs and had more than 200 pills stashed in his truck, Clark wrote. His criminal record included convictions for domestic assault, failure to appear, debit card fraud and aggravated burglary. He'd told a friend he wouldn't go back to prison.

"No criminal charges would be legal or appropriate" in the case, Clark concluded.

► GET BREAKING NEWS FIRST: Sign up for alerts on the Knox News app