ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) -- More details emerged Thursday about the ex-convict who died during a police shootout following a chaotic vehicle chase that started while investigators were looking into two shootings connected to the suspect.

Police on Thursday confirmed the identities of the victims from Wednesday's mayhem that left two people dead including Terrell Blake, a 39-year-old Rochester man who is suspected of fatally shooting his ex-girlfriend and wounding her boyfriend. Blake died Wednesday after crashing a rental van into a relative's property in Rochester and refusing pursuing officers' orders to drop his gun, police said. It wasn't clear yet if Blake was shot by police or if he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Authorities identified Antane Lopez, 28, and her 25-year-old boyfriend, Willie Jakes, as two of the other victims. Jakes is listed in satisfactory condition. The third victim, 20-year-old Terrell Blake Jr., is Blake's son and is currently being treated for non-life-threatening injuries, police said.

The elder Blake shot Lopez and Jakes at a home on Rochester's west side around 9:40 a.m. Wednesday, police said. The younger Blake was shot on an east-side street about an hour later and collapsed in a school yard. Officials said he identified his father as the shooter.

Officers spotted the U-Haul van Blake Sr. was driving about an hour after the second shooting. He led officers on a chase back to the east side neighborhood.

"He circled back to that area intending to do more harm to family members," Rochester Police Chief Mark Simmons said.

Some of the chase and exchange of gunfire was captured on video by journalists who were still in the area where Blake Jr. was shot. A Democrat and Chronicle photographer videotaped the van being hit by police gunfire as it sped past just feet away with Rochester police, sheriff's deputies and state police vehicles in pursuit.

During the chase, Blake Sr. fired a handgun at two officers standing outside their patrol cars. Neither was hit and both returned fire, hitting the van as it sped past, police said.

Blake Sr. continued driving down a residential street with numerous police vehicles in pursuit. Police said he turned down a side street and crashed into a fenced yard at a relative's house, where he refused officers' orders to drop his weapon, prompting multiple officers to open fire. He was pronounced dead at the scene, official said.

"We're working to determine who fired, where they were, and why they fired," said Monroe County Chief Deputy Michael Fowler said. "This is going to be a long and complex investigation."

Blake Sr. had a criminal history that included using a sword to slice off hair from the head of his 18-year-old girlfriend during an argument in 1998, according to the Democrat and Chronicle. He had two subsequent forgery-related convictions by 2010, when he was sentenced to up to six years in state prison. He was paroled in 2016, according to state corrections officials.