COBB COUNTY, Ga. — Police said a man was randomly shooting inside an apartment complex in Cobb County before officers shot and killed him.

Channel 2's Steve Gehlbach was at the scene, where Akers Mill Road was still closed between Powers Ferry Road and Cumberland Boulevard at 12:30 p.m. Friday.

Police confirmed to Channel 2 Action News that a man was firing shots in the parking lot of Walton on the Chattahoochee Apartments at 664 Akers Mill Road.

He was hitting buildings and cars.

By the time officers swarmed the complex, the suspect was already outside and across Akers Mill Road on a walking path near a bus stop.

"When the cops swarmed, I was like, 'This is like a for real thing,'" witness Jeff Pearson said.

NewsChopper 2 was over the scene around 6:30 a.m. Friday during Channel 2 Action News This Morning.

TRENDING STORIES:

Pearson said he woke up minutes later by a barrage of gunfire like he's never heard before.

Cobb County police said two officers confronted the suspect, ordering him to drop the gun.

Investigators will not say yet if the suspect ever fired at the officers, but they said there was a deadly threat, and that is when the officers shot the man multiple times.

He was treated on the scene, then rushed to a hospital, where he died.

Police identified the accused shooter as 34-year-old Matthew Chambers.

“There were multiple calls coming in that there was a male in the complex and that he was just shooting,” Sarah O’Hara, with the Cobb County Police Department, said.

No one else was hurt, but there was damage to some of the apartments and other property at the complex.

The GBI is investigating the deadly use of force.

Cobb PD confirms officer involved shooting on Akers Mill Rd. involving suspect who was firing at apartment complex. Road shutdown from Powers Ferry to Cumberland pic.twitter.com/DTW0Ygupvy — Steve Gehlbach (@SteveGWSB) October 12, 2018

Akers Mill Rd shut down between Powers Ferry Rd and Cumberland Blvd #AVOID #ATLtraffic pic.twitter.com/xx0l0twmmR — Cobb County DOT (@CobbDOT) October 12, 2018

Cox Media Group