The names of those involved in Sunday’s gunfire exchange that killed a man and injured a deputy have been released by the Fayette County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO).

Eric Jamar Lupain Stromer, 22, of Columbus, was pronounced dead at the Quality Inn/Amerihost, 10160 Carr Road in Jeffersonville, following the shootout. FCSO Sgt. Todd Oesterle was the deputy shot during the incident, according to Sheriff Vernon Stanforth.

Oesterle and FCSO deputy Jason Havens were dispatched to the motel at approximately 12:43 a.m. Sunday to investigate a disturbance inside the establishment. Deputies made contact with Stromer and other individuals involved in order to deescalate the problem, Stanforth said.

Prior to departing the inn, a second incident occurred, and deputies were called back to the area of the first reported disturbance.

During the investigation, deputies reportedly placed Stromer under arrest and while in the process of securing him, a woman identified as Elissa Deja Garrison, 21, of Columbus, allegedly interfered with the arrest of Stromer. Stanforth said deputies then used a Taser on Garrison.

At that time, Stromer allegedly pulled out a handgun and shot Oesterle. The deputies then returned fire, killing Stromer, according to Stanforth.

Oesterle was airlifted from the scene by a Med-Flight helicopter to a Columbus-area trauma center for medical treatment. Stanforth said Oesterle is in stable condition.

Garrison was taken into custody and later transported to the Fayette County Jail. She is charged with complicity to felonious assault and obstructing official business. She has been arraigned in Washington C.H. Municipal Court and is being held on a $125,000 bond.

The Franklin County Sheriff’s Office and Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation were requested to conduct the investigation, and detectives from those agencies are continuing their investigation. Also responding to the scene were members of the Washington C.H. Police Department, the Madison County Sheriff’s Office, the Ohio State Highway Patrol, Jefferson Township Fire Department and Fayette County EMS.

Garrison https://www.recordherald.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/27/2018/10/web1_MUGSHOTS_34657594.jpg Garrison

Columbus man killed, FCSO Sgt. Oesterle shot in motel incident

By Ryan Carter [email protected]