GREEN BAY – A police officer did not violate the law when he fatally shot and killed a handcuffed prisoner at the Brown County Jail last fall, the county's chief prosecutor said Friday.

District Attorney David Lasee said Green Bay Officer Erik O'Brien actions were legal when he shot prisoner Jonathon Tubby, 26, five times on Oct 19.

Tubby, unarmed and still in an officer's handcuffs, died on the floor of the sally port, a garage-like area where officers bring people to be booked after an arrest.

Lasee announced his findings in a 40-minute presentation Friday, after reviewing evidence gathered by officers from the state's Division of Criminal Investigation. He expressed sympathy to Tubby's family, but said O'Brien's actions, and his statements after the shooting, "consistently demonstrated that officer O'Brien believed Tubby had a weapon."

Believing that, he said, O'Brien was justified in shooting Tubby to protect himself and other officers.

"The self-defense privilege would apply in this case," Lasee said.

Read a synopsis of the Wisconsin DCI investigation of the shooting of Jonathon Tubby

Read the DCI's full report

Lasee said an autopsy found that the shooting caused Tubby's death. It also showed Tubby was "acutely impaired by methamphetamine," methadone and THC, had other controlled substances in his system and suffered from an unspecified "serious medical condition."

Tubby had recently learned that cancer he'd been treated for two years earlier had returned, and told family members he'd rather die than repeat chemotherapy, a family member told DCI investigators. Tubby's social media posts suggested he was extremely depressed, Lasee said.

O'Brien fired eight shots. Five struck Tubby.

Officers earlier had fired two less-lethal "beanbag"-type rounds at Tubby. Lasee said one struck him as he stood on the trunk of a squad car after crawling out the back window after officers had removed it. The other missed.

Tubby's family disputes findings

Minutes after Lasee's announcement, Tubby's family issued a statement saying they are disappointed, but asking the community to reserve judgment. The family has filed a civil rights lawsuit on his behalf.

"The District Attorney’s findings and conclusions are not facts, they are opinions of the District Attorney as to whether a murder charge could be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. The District Attorney’s findings and conclusions are not a comprehensive or unbiased summary of all evidence in this case.

"Jonathon has never had an opportunity to tell his side of this story and we believe that as the civil lawsuit progresses, a more complete and accurate picture of Jonathon and the events of October 19, 2018, will come to light," they said.

"Causing more pain does not heal, and we continue to advocate for peace and for allowing the justice system to run its course."

RELATED: Family sues Green Bay police, Brown County sheriff's officials

RELATED: Tubby's family: 'We will not move through this with hate, violence'

RELATED: Rally calls for justice in wake of Jonathon Tubby's death

RELATED: Jail doesn't record video in area where Tubby was killed

Chief praises O'Brien

The 43-year-old O'Brien, a six-year veteran who Green Bay Police Chief Andrew Smith said has a good service record, remains on administrative duty. O'Brien has been the target of death threats, Smith said, including a recent Facebook post saying he should "get the electric chair" and another claiming he "needs a bullit (sic) to the head!"

The number of online death threats against O'Brien, and Green Bay officers in general, increased once Lasee made his decision public, Smith said.

"Time for some good ol fashion (sic) cop killing to start," one person posted on a livestream of Lasee's press conference. The poster added later, "Green Bay I hope your city burns down this weekend!!!!!!!!!!"

Smith on Friday expressed sympathy for Tubby's loved ones, saying he and the department are "truly sorry for your loss." He said he's offered to meet with the family, but suspects that won't happen because of a lawsuit filed by family members.

Smith, who became the city's chief three years ago to the day, also praised O'Brien as an officer and as a person. He said O'Brien, a married father of four, previously taught first-graders and prison inmates.

"We trusted his judgment and we still trust his judgment," Smith said. "He's very calm and very thorough. He's also a member of out SWAT team … I had no qualms when I learned he qualified to be a member of our team."

O'Brien has been the subject of a citizen complaint, Smith said. It was not sustained.

O'Brien remains on administrative duty out of concern for his safety, Smith has said.

Tragic chain of events

The chain of events leading to Tubby's death began at 7:24 p.m. Oct. 19, when O'Brien and Colton Wernecke, an officer trainee, stopped a blue sedan near the downtown Hyatt Regency Green Bay after Tubby failed to stop at a red light.

Lasee said Tubby did not stop immediately, but did not flee. Instead, he drove around a parking lot "for about a minute," while placing a phone call in which he told his girlfriend he loves her.

A records check by officers found a warrant for Tubby's arrest; he'd failed to report to jail to serve a 60-day sentence for a 2017 drunk-driving offense. Officers also found marijuana "in plain view," Lasee said.

Lasee said Tubby and his passenger were generally cooperative, though initially gave officers false names. Officers did a cursory search of Tubby for weapons, Smith said, which is standard procedure before taking an arrestee to jail.

They cuffed his hands behind his back, and buckled him into a seat.

On the 4.5-mile ride to jail, Tubby managed to get his cuffed hands in front of him and appeared to point something at his chin. Police radio calls did not make clear what officers thought Tubby was pointing.

Smith said Friday that Tubby appeared to have "a cylindrical object" that officers feared was a gun. He showed frames from in-car video that appear to support that belief.

Once in the sally port, Lasee said, Tubby repeatedly refused to leave the squad car and kept at least one of his hands beneath his T-shirt, pointing in a way that led officers to continue to believe he might have a gun.

Tubby also said "I'll do it." That also suggested he was armed, Lasee said.

Officers backed away and sought cover. Within minutes, the car's windows had fogged. Police eventually broke out the back window with two non-lethal rounds, then used pepper spray on Tubby.

Smith said Tubby quickly climbed out the window to the trunk lid, keeping one hand beneath his shirt.

Lasee said an officer fired a beanbag round, knocking Tubby from the car to the ground. Tubby got up. Ignoring orders to stay on the ground, he ran toward O'Brien, who had taken partial cover behind a wall.

Lasee said O'Brien continued to believe Tubby was armed. When Tubby turned toward other officers, Lasee said, O'Brien thought Tubby would shoot one of them.

"He perceived Tubby to be a threat of great bodily harm," Lasee said.

O'Brien fired eight times. About 9:11 p.m., a radio call went out. An ambulance was needed at the jail.

Tubby lay dead on the floor. Now one of one of 998 people, Washington Post figures show, killed by police in America in 2018.

Tears from Tubby's supporters

The Black Lives United – Green Bay group gathered Friday in support of Tubby and his loved ones at Homemade Southern Cuisine in Green Bay to watch a livestream of Lasee's announcement, and to discuss concerns and feelings.

People cried and shook their heads following Lasee's live\streamed description of the shooting. Tubby was a member of the Oneida Tribe of Indians, and lived in Green Bay.

In a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court, Tubby's family claims O'Brien, Wernecke, other officers at the scene and the departments that employ them violated Tubby's civil rights.

The suit seeks unspecified money damages, and demands the immediate installation of video- and audio-recording equipment in the sally port. Installation of a recording system for sally-port cameras, a project the county had discussed for several years, is expected to be complete this summer.

The lawsuit names law enforcement officers identified as "John Doe 1-10" as defendants, as well as the Green Bay Police Department, the Sheriff's Office, then-Sheriff John Gossage and Jail Administrator Heidi Michel.

Internal investigation begun

Smith said his department has begun its own investigation into the shooting. He has assembled a "critical-incident review board," to consider issues such as possible ways to improve prisoner transfers, and whether officers followed departmental policies.

He said officers took multiple steps to control Tubby before choosing to use deadly force, including shooting him with a beanbag round as he stood on the trunk of the squad car. He said policy prohibits use of a Taser in such a situation because Tubby have been almost certain to have fallen to the concrete floor without the ability to protect himself.

The internal investigation could find that discipline is warranted against one or more officers in the incident, Smith has said.

Tubby's death was the first fatal shooting by Green Bay police since February 2015, when Green Bay resident Joseph Biegert was fatally shot during a disturbance in a west-side apartment building. Biegert had cut one officers arm with a kitchen knife before he was shot.

Lasee found the officers involved in the incident broke no laws. Biegert's mother has sued the officers, the department and now-retired Chief Tom Molitor.