No charges will be filed against a police officer who shot and killed an armed man in the city limits of Washington, a district attorney said.

District Attorney Seth Edwards said that following an investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, criminal charges are not warranted against a Washington Police Officer who shot and killed Cedric Pritchard on October 21, 2018.

According to Edwards, he met with the Pritchard family prior to issuing the press release and discussed with them the details of the SBI investigation.

On October 21, 2018, around 3:45 p.m., a Washington Police Officer noticed a blue Pontiac Aztec vehicle in operation on 15th street in Washington near the intersection of Washington Street.

The officer made two felony arrests out of this vehicle the previous night and was familiar with the vehicle from other incidents in the city of Washington.

The officer recognized Pritchard as the driver with a green hoodie pulled up on his head.

The officer knew Pritchard from previous dealings and had observed him the two days prior wearing a green hoodie.

Pritchard was also a suspect in two separate felony assaults that occurred on October 19 and 20.

The officer said that Pritchard did not have a valid North Carolina driver’s license.

As the officer’s vehicle passed the Aztec driving in the opposite direction, the Aztec turned south on Washington Street.

The officer then turned south on Pierce Street and then another right onto 10th Street.

As the officer came to a stop at Washington and 10th Streets, the Aztec passed in front of the officer in a southerly direction.

The officer turned left on Washington and followed the Aztec.

The officer was operating a marked police vehicle equipped with blue lights and siren.

The Aztec abruptly swerved to the left on Washington Street and came to a stop at an angle in front of 1105 Washington Street.

The officer activated the blue lights and pulled his marked vehicle over to the left and behind the Aztec.

The officer exited the vehicle in full police uniform and closed his driver’s side door.

As the officer approached the Aztec, he and Pritchard made eye contact as Pritchard looked in the side view mirror of the Aztec.

According to a press release, Pritchard opened his driver’s side door in an aggressive manner and jumped out of the Aztec with a small black handgun in his right hand.

As he exited the Aztec, Pritchard faced the officer with his body turned towards the officer as well.

At this point the officer drew his weapon and aimed at Pritchard as Pritchard begins to run from the officer, going from right to left.

The handgun remained in Pritchard’s right hand as he attempted to flee.

The officer discharged his weapon twice, hitting Pritchard in his back, killing him.

After Pritchard was shot, he dropped on the ground a loaded black Revolver, a Smith and Wesson .38 caliber handgun.

It was later determined that the revolver Pritchard possessed was listed as stolen out of Wake County.

In reviewing the SBI’s investigation, Edwards also consulted two firearms experts on law enforcement training and specifically use of force cases.

Under North Carolina law, a law enforcement officer is justified in using deadly force when it’s reasonably necessary to defend himself or a third person from what he reasonably believes to be the use or imminent use of deadly physical force.

PREVIOUS:

A man was shot and killed by a Washington police officer Sunday afternoon, Washington Police Chief Stacy Drakeford confirmed.

The Washington Police Department said it happened during a traffic stop near the corner of Washington Street and West 11th Street on Sunday around 3:48 p.m.

Police said the driver, Cedric Pritchard of Washington, was armed when he got out of the vehicle.

When the officer saw Pritchard was armed, the officer shot him, Washington police said.

Pritchard died from his wound.

Natasha Knight, who lives on 11th Street, said she ran outside when she heard gunfire. When she found out who it was, she was overcome by emotion.

“I think all of our eyes filled with water, and we started crying a little bit,” Knight said.

Knight said she considered Pritchard a family friend.

“I knew him from a little boy when he was real young, and I knew his mom,” she said.

Pastor Marcus Miller, a representative of the community, said he is working to get answers on behalf of the family.

“Everything that is going on the world today, I think it is essential to have answers to help with this,” said Miller. “Try to speak with the chief of police or someone with answers to bring back to the community and keep the peace.”

Drakeford asked the State Bureau of Investigations to conduct an investigation into the incident.

The officer involved has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation by the SBI.

“It is with great sadness that we are investigating an officer-involved shooting in our City,” said Drakeford. “Today, a citizen of our community has lost his life, a family is grieving for their family member, and our law enforcement agency is saddened by these events. We ask that the community joins us as our thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected by this tragic incident.”

The SBI is still investigating the case.

9 On Your Side will update this story as more information is available.