UPDATE (3:15 p.m.) The Jacksonville Sheriff's Office has identified the man shot and killed by an officer after a reported carjacking on Wednesday.

The Sheriff's Office said the 24-year-old suspect, Tony Bernard Smith Jr., died after being shot. He is a known gang member with a lengthy criminal history and was shot once by a 10-year veteran of JSO, authorities said.

The Sheriff's Office said two individuals were detained at the scene. Officer said one of the men, Jamal Bernard Lincoln, was in possession of victim's cell phone and was linked to the crime. Officers said the other man detained was released after investigators cleared him of involvement.

JSO said there are two outstanding suspects.

According to the Sheriff's Office, officers found the truck with the help of OnStar and tried to stop the vehicle when men in the truck got out and ran.

Officers chased the men, and Officer Rodney Deconte followed the man believed to be the driver up some stairs, the Sheriff's Office said.

After giving many commands, the officer shot one round at the non-compliant subject, according to the Sheriff's Office.

JSO said the subject did not have a gun on him at the time of the shooting, but a gun was found between the truck and the subject.

The Sheriff's Office said the carjacking victim's belongings were found in the suspect's pockets at the hospital, and a gun found at the scene matched the description given by the victim.

The victim is in hospital and is improving, but has a long recovery ahead, the Sheriff's Office said.

ORIGINAL: A male suspect is dead after being shot by Jacksonville police following an armed carjacking at a car wash on Lem Turner Road.

According to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office, on Wednesday just before 11 p.m., four men carjacked a senior citizen and beat him to the point of unconsciousness and took his truck.

STAY UPDATED: Download the Action News Jax app

This is the car wash on Lem Turner Rd. where JSO says 4 suspects best an elderly man unconscious before a deadly officer involved shooting. @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/60stT4ujnF — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) November 1, 2018

The elderly man was taken to the hospital with serious injuries.

Jacksonville police said they were able to track down the truck using OnStar and it was spotted by an officer in the Moncrief area.

When the officer tried to stop the truck, police said the suspects entered the Hilltop Village Apartments. The men began to flee on foot, police said.

Here's a closer look at the law enforcement presence in the parking lot of Hilltop Village apartments. @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/sZX1P3bP1r — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) November 1, 2018

Officers chased the suspects and one officer chased one of the suspects to the third floor of the apartment complex where shots were fired.

Police said the suspect failed to comply with the commands given from the officer chasing him.

The suspect was taken to a hospital has been pronounced deceased. Police said no officers were injured during the shooting.

ANJaxBreaking: JSO says 4 armed carjacking suspects in this case - 1 on the run, 2 detained, 1 killed in police involved shooting. Elderly victim of carjacking in serious condition at local hospital. @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/3NC5k0cIA3 — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) November 1, 2018

Investigators said they found a handgun during a search of the area and other potential evidence at the complex.

Property belonging to the elderly man was found on the suspect that died. The state attorney office is working in the case alongside JSO.

JSO were able to detain two other suspects and one suspect is still at large. Police plan to give another briefing sometime Thursday afternoon to release more information as it becomes available.

This is a developing story. Refresh this page, follow @ ActionNewsJax on Twitter and watch Action News Jax for the latest.

Cox Media Group