A man shot to death by Chicago police Tuesday night while brandishing a handgun told officers he was going to kill them and then commit suicide, police said.

He was the sixth person shot to death by Chicago police this year.

Advertisement

Neighbors and family members said Luther Mitchell Jr., 49, of the 7800 block of South Shore Drive, had a history of depression that he treated with medication. He also had a record involving weapons.

Court records show Mitchell pleaded guilty in January to unlawful use of a weapon and was sentenced to 18 months of probation, which he was serving at the time of his death.

Advertisement

According to police spokesman Patrick Camden, Mitchell was walking north on South Shore Drive less than a block from his home at 9:30 p.m. Tuesday when two plainclothes officers spotted him acting suspiciously and carrying something in his right hand. When the officers stepped out of their patrol car and ordered him to stop, Mitchell turned and the officers realized he had a gun, Camden said.

"He said, `I'm going to kill you and then I'm going to kill myself,'" Camden said, quoting from a report made by the officers involved in the shooting.

Camden said the officers identified themselves as police and ordered Mitchell to drop his weapon several times. One of the officers then fired three shots at Mitchell, striking him in the head and fatally wounding him, Camden said.

However, residents of the South Shore neighborhood gave a different version of events. Brandon McMichaels, 17, said Wednesday he saw the shooting from a bus stop across South Shore Drive.

"They told him to get down," McMichaels said. "[Mitchell] said, `I'm a police officer myself.'"

McMichaels said he did not see a gun in Mitchell's hand. He also claimed both officers fired at Mitchell. Police, however, recovered a .25-caliber pistol equipped with a laser sight at the scene, according to Camden, who said no witnesses interviewed by police mentioned that Mitchell identified himself as a cop.

Mitchell's cousin, Monte Rollerson, 48, said Mitchell often told people he worked as a security guard but in fact had not. "That was his fantasy. He needed help," Rollerson said.

W.L. Harris, 48, who works as the maintenance man at Mitchell's apartment building, said Mitchell lived by himself and was generally low-key.

Advertisement

"But this one time [last summer], he ran up and down the porch half nude," Harris said.

Bertha Tate, 75, who lives in a first-floor apartment underneath Mitchell's third-floor unit, said she had known Mitchell for five years. He sometimes borrowed money, she said, and was a friend of her son's.

"Luther was a nice guy," Tate said.