Frank Fernandez

frank.fernandez@news-jrnl.com

A Port Orange man who had stalked and threatened his ex-girlfriend before being cornered by police at a 7-Eleven last year shot himself in the head as officers closed in, according to a report of the officer-involved shooting.

John Wurms, 32, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the right side of the head on Oct. 31, according to an autopsy and a report from the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. Wurms' death was ruled a suicide by the Medical Examiner’s Office.

Wurms was also hit two other times by police gunfire, once in the hip and the other in the buttocks area during the confrontation at 10:45 p.m. near the 7-Eleven at 1632 Taylor Road in Port Orange, the FDLE report states.

The FDLE investigated the officer-involved shooting, which is routine. State Attorney R.J. Larizza's Office reviewed the findings by the FDLE, which is also routine and determined that no further action was warranted according to a May 21, 2019 letter.

[READ MORE: 176 people were shot in Volusia and Flagler counties in 2018 with most of the fatal shootings being suicides.]

Wurms' ex-girlfriend had called police to say he was stalking her and was headed to her home in Holly Hill. A Holly Hill police officer spotted Wurms, who sped away on his black BMW motorcycle and headed south on Interstate 95. The officer sent out out an alert to other officers to be on the lookout for Wurms.

Volusia County sheriff’s deputy Devon Lafoucade heard the alert and spotted Wurms getting off his motorcycle and walking inside the 7-Eleven. He called for backup since Wurms was reportedly armed. Lafoucade parked on the side of the 7-Eleven.

Meanwhile, Port Orange police Officer Darnell Gatling parked outside the store and saw Wurms walk out. Gatling asked Wurms to come talk to him but Wurms said "No" and continued walking away. Wurms dropped his motorcycle helmet, reached in his pocket and pulled out a pistol and put it to his head. As Gatling stepped off the sidewalk to get cover behind a car he tripped and fell.

Lafoucade then saw Wurms walking backward toward him. Wurms was holding a gun to his head. Lafoucade drew his gun and ordered Wurms to drop his firearm. Instead, Wurms started running.

While Wurms ran he put his gun to his head several times.

Other police officers had heard that Wurms had been spotted, including Port Orange Officer Jarrad Alevisatos, who joined Lafoucade in running after Wurms.

Alevisatos saw Wurms run past the sign for The Pavilion and into the darkness. Alevisatos worried that he did not have anything for cover and that he could be shot if Wurms started firing.

Both Lafoucade and Alevisatos said Wurms suddenly stopped running, turned and extended his arm, pointing the gun in their direction. Lafoucade was still running when he fired twice and then got behind The Pavilion sign. Alevisatos also fired his pistol at Wurms.

Port Orange police Officer Jonathan Nolan was driving to the 7-Eleven when he heard on the radio that Wurms was running with a gun to his head toward The Pavilion. Wurms was running toward Nolan, who stopped his patrol car in the southbound lanes of Williamson Boulevard. Then he saw Wurms running with a hand to his head.

Nolan saw the two other officers chasing Wurms about 10 yards behind him. Nolan could not see Wurms hand or arm movement, but after a few seconds he heard gunshots. He did not know who fired but believed Wurms had turned and fired. Nolan fired his AR-15 four or five times until Wurms fell to the ground.