No charges will be filed against a Shelby Township police officer who fatally shot a man in November in an apartment complex parking lot, the Macomb County Sheriff's Office said Tuesday.

The sheriff's office investigated the Nov. 3 death of Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of the township. The county prosecutor's office reviewed the case, and no charges were authorized, the sheriff's office said.

Township police responded to a residence at Spring Hill Apartments on Spring Lane on Nov. 2 for a complaint of unauthorized driving away of an automobile. Police said the complainant said her son, Malhi, stole her 2005 Honda from the residence. She said he did not have a valid driver's license and was using illegal narcotics, police said.

They said another family member indicated Malhi had stated that if police were called, he "would not be taken alive and made mention of suicide by cop," according to the sheriff's office release.

A township police officer on patrol saw the stolen vehicle in the apartment complex about midnight. Malhi was driving and parked the vehicle within the complex.

Several township police officers responded and gave verbal commands to Malhi, who was not compliant with the officers' verbal commands and said he was armed with a gun, the sheriff's office said.

It said he continued not to comply with the officers' commands, abruptly got out of the vehicle and made movements toward his jacket pocket. A township officer, who was not named in the release, fired one round from his department-issued shotgun, hitting Malhi, the sheriff's office said.

It said officers immediately gave aid to Malhi, who was taken to Troy Beaumont Hospital and pronounced dead at 1:45 a.m.

Seven township officers were on the scene when Malhi was shot, the sheriff's office said. It reports that Malhi said he had a gun and was given numerous verbal commands to show officers his hands. He didn't, the sheriff's office said, and he made several movements that were consistent with reaching for a weapon.

No gun was found on Malhi or in his vehicle, according to the sheriff's office.

The office said the incident, from the time township officers arrived to the time Malhi was shot, lasted about 10 minutes. Dash camera footage and audio was reviewed and witnesses were interviewed, according to the release.

It stated that an autopsy by the Oakland County Medical Examiner's Office showed that Malhi died of a single gunshot wound and he was found to have cocaine, morphine and buprenorphine in his system. Buprenorphine is used to treat opioid (narcotic) dependence or addiction, according to the Mayo Clinic website.

Related:

Mich. sees big increase in fatal police shootings

Man fatally shot by Shelby Twp. officer ID'd

The officer who fired the shot was placed on administrative leave after the incident.

Township Police Chief Robert Shelide said during a news conference after the shooting that four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he was armed.

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what led our officer into firing his weapon," he said in November. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect themselves."

Shelide said, at that time, that the incident was a family matter that became a tragic situation. He added that the officer who shot Malhi had been on the police force for 17 years "with an exemplary record."

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do."

Shelide said he's aware that prior to this incident, Malhi has had multiple contacts with police officers — but with another department.

Contact Christina Hall: chall@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @challreporter.

Staff writer Aleanna Siacon contributed to this report.