Robert Medley and Kyle Schwab

Oklahoma City police officers shot and killed a suspected armed robber Monday evening.

Following a cellphone store robbery, officers quickly located the suspect through a tracking device that an employee slipped into a bag of stolen money, police Capt. Bo Mathews said Tuesday.

The suspect was identified as Tony Lamont Mathis, 47, of Oklahoma City. Mathis previously served time for an armed robbery conviction.

About 5:40 p.m., officers were called to 214 SW 44, where a clerk said the store was robbed by a man with a gun, police reported.

Officers Drake Carder, Joshua Gershon and Corey Adams located the man less than a mile east of the store about 5:50 p.m. The man ran from officers and refused commands before being shot, police reported.

No gun was found on the suspect or at the scene of the shooting, Mathews said. It is still unclear what made the officers decide to open fire.

One of the officers yelled, "Don't reach for it," before shots were fired, police reported.

A vehicle located across the street from the shooting was seized by police. Mathews said the suspect, at one point, may have been in the car. The findings of that search have not yet been released.

The suspect was taken by ambulance to a hospital, where he died.

The three officers will remain on paid administrative leave until Oklahoma County District Attorney David Prater determines whether the shooting was justified. At that time, bodycam video is expected to be released.

The officers don't have to speak with homicide investigators about the shooting immediately. They can wait up to two days after the incident.

A woman who answered the telephone Tuesday at the store, Metro by T-Mobile, identified herself as a manager and then declined to comment about the robbery and shooting.

It was the second time in three days police in Oklahoma City opened fire on a person. On Saturday afternoon, a man wearing camouflage who had a gun was shot and wounded by officers in southwest Oklahoma City. Three officers were placed on administrative leave.

James Emanuel Drake, 45, was wounded about 5:45 p.m. Saturday at 309 SW 59 after he refused orders to get on the ground, police said. Drake was hospitalized after the shooting.

Oklahoma City police have been involved in 11 shootings this year, and four of those have been fatal. No officers have been injured.