Man who approached officers with knife at Upstate gas station shot, dies at hospital, officials say

A man who was shot by an officer at a Spartanburg gas station has died, according to the Spartanburg County coroner. It happened at 4 a.m. at the QT on West Main Street.Maj. Art Littlejohn, with Spartanburg Public Safety, said officers were at the QT investigating a vehicle accident. He said a man, who was not involved in the accident, approached officers with a knife. Officer ordered the man to put down the knife several times, but he refused. Littlejohn said the man continued to approach the officers while holding the knife. One officer fired one shot, hitting the man in the upper torso, Littlejohn said. David Manning, 29, of Pacolet, was taken to Spartanburg Regional Hospital where he died, the coroner said. No officers were injured, Thom Berry, with the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division said. The officers involved in the shooting have been put on administrative leave which is standard procedure. SLED is investigating the shooting.

A man who was shot by an officer at a Spartanburg gas station has died, according to the Spartanburg County coroner.

It happened at 4 a.m. at the QT on West Main Street.

Advertisement

Maj. Art Littlejohn, with Spartanburg Public Safety, said officers were at the QT investigating a vehicle accident. He said a man, who was not involved in the accident, approached officers with a knife. Officer ordered the man to put down the knife several times, but he refused.

Littlejohn said the man continued to approach the officers while holding the knife. One officer fired one shot, hitting the man in the upper torso, Littlejohn said.

David Manning, 29, of Pacolet, was taken to Spartanburg Regional Hospital where he died, the coroner said.

No officers were injured, Thom Berry, with the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division said.

The officers involved in the shooting have been put on administrative leave which is standard procedure.

SLED is investigating the shooting.