The trooper's actions "were necessary and legal both in self-defense and in the defense of the community," a prosecutor wrote.

Example video title will go here for this video

MERIDIAN, Idaho — A motorcycle officer who shot and killed another man in the aftermath of a chase last year has been cleared of any criminal wrongdoing.

The announcement came Wednesday, following a months-long Critical Incident Task Force investigation into the death of 41-year-old Christopher E. Williams of Boise. The results of the Boise Police-led investigation were ultimately forwarded on to the Ada County Prosecutor's Office and the Twin Falls County Prosecutor's Office, which reviewed them and declined to bring any charges against the trooper.

The shooting happened the afternoon of Nov. 19 in Meridian.

PREVIOUS: Coroner releases identity of man killed by Idaho State Police trooper

According to Idaho State Police, ISP trooper Justin Ward pulled over Williams' motorcycle at Meridian Road and West Waltman Lane just before 3:30 p.m. Once Ward climbed off his own motorcycle, however, Williams sped away.

ISP said Williams headed down Waltman Lane at a "high rate of speed," and Ward followed after him. Ultimately, Williams reached a dead-end on Waltman, and laid his motorcycle down. Ward got off his motorcycle, and a physical fight broke out between the two men as the trooper tried to restrain Williams, police say.

Man shot and killed by trooper in Meridian 1/10

2/10

3/10

4/10

5/10

6/10

7/10

8/10

9/10

10/10 1 / 10

During the struggle, Ward fired his gun, hitting Williams multiple times. Ward called out over the radio for paramedics, but Williams died at the scene.

Twin Falls Prosecutor Grant Loebs wrote in a memo that the fatal shooting was justified.

"There is no evidence to support a criminal charge against any law enforcement officers for the November 19, 2018, death of Christopher E. Williams," he wrote. "The Idaho State Police Trooper's actions were necessary and legal both in self-defense and in the defense of the community which would have been endangered had Williams successfully fled after disarming and attacking the Trooper."

Loebs also noted that an autopsy revealed that Williams had methamphetamine and amphetamines in his system when he died.