ST. LUCIE COUNTY — A grand jury Thursday cleared five St. Lucie County sheriff’s deputies in connection with the fatal shooting of a 27-year-old man during a heroin deal last year, the sheriff’s office said.

Sheriff’s officials identified the deputies involved in the Nov. 17 incident as Detective Sgt. Ryan Register and detectives Benjamin Cuevas III, Daniel Lafleur, Bryan Saliba and David Snyder. None had any prior discipline, and all five fired their weapons.

Rio Antwuan Thomas of Port St. Lucie died after the shooting, which happened outside a Kentucky Fried Chicken/Long John Silver's eatery between Interstate 95 and Florida's Turnpike off Okeechobee Road.

More: Man fatally shot by deputies in confrontation ID'd as Port St. Lucie man

Before Thomas’ name was released after the shooting, Sheriff Ken Mascara in a video interview described him as a “known heroin dealer not only in our county but also in Martin County.”

Sheriff's officials said investigators were trying to buy heroin from Thomas, who investigators said had two firearms in his vehicle.

The Sheriff’s Office stated that when the transaction was over, an unmarked sheriff’s vehicle pulled in behind Thomas’ car.

More: Shooting victim apparently drives himself to hospital in Fort Pierce, then gets arrested

“Unfortunately, Mr. Thomas’ actions, more importantly his inactions, caused a domino of events which directly led to his death,” Mascara said Thursday in a prepared statement. “After arriving at the location for what he thought was a drug deal, deputies identified and confronted him, ordered him to turn his vehicle off and to show his hands. Mr. Thomas did not turn his vehicle off and, in fact, reversed at a high rate of speed in an attempt to flee.”

Mascara said Thomas has a “history of fleeing and eluding law enforcement.” He said investigators knew that and “centered one of their vehicles behind him.”

More: Wanted man killed by St. Lucie deputy; second officer-involved shooting in two days

Mascara said a deputy at the passenger side yelled for him to stop.

“He continued to accelerate more and more, putting the deputies that were near the front of his car in danger and they used deadly force to stop this forward advancement of the car, firing into the vehicle striking him,” Mascara said.

Investigators reported finding a loaded 9mm pistol and another gun in Thomas’ vehicle. One of the firearms was under the seat, and another was near the center console.

Thomas, who died at the scene, was arrested in September 2017, in Martin County on charges including trafficking heroin, possession of cocaine with intent to sell, possession of drug paraphernalia and curfew violation, records show.

More: One dead after Fort Pierce police officer-involved shooting

In that case, Thomas was the passenger in a Honda stopped in the area of Southwest High Meadows Avenue and Southwest Sunset Trail in Palm City, an arrest affidavit states. Martin County sheriff’s investigators reported smelling marijuana and finding items including cocaine and heroin in the vehicle.

The driver, Adam Costello, told deputies he smokes crack cocaine. Costello, who also was arrested, said he drove Thomas around so he could sell drugs.

“In exchange, Mr. Thomas repays Mr. Costello with money or ‘hard’ (crack cocaine),” the affidavit states.

Want more Treasure Coast breaking news coverage? If you're already a subscriber to TCPalm, thank you! If not, please subscribe to keep coverage of Treasure Coast breaking news coming.