Rebecca Martin hangs blue ribbons in the Edison Park neighborhood to honor fallen Chicago police Officer Samuel Jimenez on Nov. 20, 2018. Jimenez was shot and killed at Mercy Hospital. (Chris Sweda / Chicago Tribune)

Four years before Juan Lopez gunned down three people at Mercy Hospital, his then-wife called 911 and made a startling allegation: The very day she’d gotten an order of protection against Lopez, he came into her home and “destroyed everything.”

The woman later told officers that an intruder had damaged or taken thousands of dollars in possessions and appeared to have used a key to enter her home. Still, a detective never questioned Lopez or pursued him as a suspect before cutting off the investigation, police reports show.

Advertisement

The previously unrevealed documents, obtained by the Tribune through open records requests, raise questions as to how thoroughly Chicago police investigated the case. Advocates for abused women said they were troubled by the failure to consider Lopez a suspect.

“Why did this investigation stop right here when it was so obvious who was actually responsible for this crime?” said Danielle Parisi Ruffatto, an attorney with the Chicago-based Domestic Violence Legal Clinic. “This is just baffling to me.”

Advertisement

Chicago police spokesman Luis Agostini said in an email that “speaking with her ex-husband about this case wouldn’t necessarily be a step in this investigation, unless there was something specific to tie him to the burglary case.

“There weren’t any listed witnesses, surveillance videos, or any other items of evidence … connecting him to the incident, including the interview with the victim,” he wrote.

Lopez had no criminal record and had the legal right to own and conceal the 9 mm Glock 17 handgun he wielded when he came to the busy Bronzeville hospital on Nov. 19 to take back his engagement ring. He killed his former fiancee, Dr. Tamara O’Neal, 38, who he was involved with after his divorce. And in the chaos that erupted, Lopez fatally shot 24-year-old pharmacist Dayna Less, who had stepped off an elevator and into his path, and responding police Officer Samuel Jimenez, 28. Lopez, 32, died after an officer shot him in the abdomen and he shot himself in the head.

The rampage ended a life shaped by violence, religion and politics, the Tribune found through an examination of public records and interviews with those who knew him.

As a churchgoing teenager, Lopez saw his brother lying on the ground after being fatally shot. That tragedy led him to meet influential former Ald. Dick Mell, who gave the high schooler work in his political organization’s office, according to those who knew Lopez at the time. Lopez emerged with a useful document — a letter of recommendation on letterhead prominently featuring Mell’s name.

Lopez went on to a series of low-level government jobs. As in his personal life, women he worked with accused him of mistreating them, but he largely evaded consequences during the years before he took three promising young lives.

His family declined requests for interviews and has stayed out of the spotlight for the last six months, but issued a statement expressing confusion over the hospital massacre.

“His final acts on earth will never make sense to us, as it was completely out of his character,” his family wrote in a statement released by his sister. “We’re broken not only for our loss but for those affected by all this as well including our community we love.”

Advertisement

Home ransacked

In the days after the Mercy shooting, police officials told reporters that Lopez’s ex-wife had accused him of sending harassing text messages on Dec. 1, 2014. But there was a disturbing coda from that day that did not come to light.

After she reported the phone messages, the woman went to court and obtained a protective order. She alleged that Lopez had slept with his gun under his pillow and had pointed the weapon at a real estate agent who showed up for an appointment Lopez had forgotten. The woman indicated in court papers that she planned to seek a divorce and that he had “become threatening” as they separated.

That night, the woman returned home and called police again to say her residence had been ransacked. “Caller got an emergency (order of protection) against (redacted), she just got home and he has destroyed everything in her home,” according to city records of her call.

In another report two days later, she said someone came into her home and stole or damaged electronics, art and furniture worth thousands of dollars. The intruder cut marks into the furniture and poured what appeared to be soda on some items, reports show.

Like the Mercy rampage, this crime also involved a wedding ring — the ex-wife reported one missing.

[ Domestic violence and guns in Mercy Hospital shooting: 'It wasn't about the ring. It was about her leaving him.' ]

Detective Joan Burke wrote in a report that the woman said she believed she had locked the door to the home, and it was unlocked when she returned. The detective noted that the woman had gotten an order of protection the same day.

Advertisement

She noted also that no evidence technician came to the scene. Burke, who could not be reached for comment, requested in a report submitted Dec. 14 that the case be suspended “pending further investigative leads” or contact from the victim.

Agostini, the police spokesman, said Burke followed protocol by cutting off the investigation and that the police had no evidence suggesting Lopez as a suspect. He noted that Burke’s report did not indicate that the woman said she suspected anyone specific.

Amanda Pyron, executive director of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network, voiced concern that the department quickly suspended the case and that the detective’s report gives no indication that she followed up with the victim or otherwise attempted to build a case. She said she was concerned that the department appeared to have treated the case “as a routine breaking-and-entering.”

Ruffatto said she believed Lopez “came into (the victim’s) space and showed that he can do that in the future.”

“That’s really unsettling because I think that was meant to send a message,” she said.

Lopez’s ex-wife declined to comment.

Advertisement

A judge vacated the order of protection about two weeks after it took effect. The woman later alleged “constant infidelity and abuse” as she divorced Lopez, with whom she had a son in 2012.

Exterior of Mercy Hospital in Chicago seen on Nov. 21, 2018. Days earlier, a Juan Lopez fatally shot two hospital workers and a Chicago police officer at the hospital. (Terrence Antonio James / Chicago Tribune)

Trauma, politics and harassment

Lopez’s violent end at Mercy Hospital came after he endured childhood trauma and built a minor — but troubled — career in public service.

Raised on the Northwest Side, Lopez developed friendships as a teen and young adult at Armitage Baptist Church in Logan Square, pastors there said. He was “a jokester” and “everybody’s friend,” Senior Pastor Charles Lyons said.

His youth also was marked by gun violence. In the summer of 2000, Lopez’s 12-year-old brother, Miguel DeLaRosa, had just finished playing baseball when a member of the Spanish Cobras street gang stood through the sunroof of a Pontiac Bonneville, took aim with a .380-caliber semi-automatic handgun and fired at a car containing members of the Latin Kings. A stray bullet hit the boy in the chest, knocking him off his bicycle.

Lopez, 14 at the time of the shooting, testified at the murder trial that he went to the scene and saw his brother lying on the ground. The shooter, Miguel Figueroa, is projected for parole in 2045.

Pastor Lyons said he interviewed Lopez before the Armitage Baptist congregation around the one-year anniversary of the shooting. The teen told those gathered that he forgave his brother’s killer and hoped he’d find salvation.

Advertisement

Lyons said then-Ald. Mell was in the audience. The longtime Northwest Side power broker was the head of a family political dynasty that launched the careers of son-in-law Rod Blagojevich, the imprisoned former governor, and daughter Deb Mell, a former state representative who was an alderman until her recent defeat.

After the sermon, Dick Mell came to the pastor’s office and said Lopez’s story was “the most incredible thing I’ve ever heard,” and asked to help the boy, Lyons said. Mell, now 81, recently told the Tribune that he did not recall Lopez.

[ Mercy Hospital gunman had been kicked out of fire academy: 'He had issues. He was not getting along well' ]

Longtime Mell aide Jaime Andrade, now a state representative, said the former alderman gave Lopez work answering phones and cleaning the 33rd Ward Democratic office “as a favor to the pastor.”

The ward organization paid Lopez $8,880 for about a year ending in November 2003, records show. Lopez also received a $250 gift from a Mell campaign fund when he married in 2008.

An administrative assistant wrote Lopez a recommendation letter saying he was “very responsible and on time for work.”

As he worked for Mell’s organization, Lopez struggled at Kelvyn Park High School, racking up failing grades in classes ranging from biology to studio sculpture before graduating in 2004 with a GPA of 1.6, according to a school transcript.

Advertisement

After high school, Lopez worked an internship at a Northwest Side fire station, among other jobs. He eventually applied to the Fire Department, submitting his letter from Mell’s organization, and started at the academy in March 2014, records show.

Women complained that he ran into them during training and tried to touch them inappropriately, according to records of an internal investigation into his conduct initiated shortly after he arrived.

Amid that investigation, Lopez was overheard by a firefighter saying, “If I get fired, I’m going to shoot this f------ place up,” sources told the Tribune. Department sources have confirmed they were aware of his remarks, but there is no documentation of the threat, which was not reported to police.

With the investigation open into his conduct against women, Lopez failed to show up for several days and was fired, records show.

That didn’t stop Lopez from finding his way back to city employment. Northwest Side Ald. Roberto Maldonado hired him as a 31-year-old summer intern making $10 an hour in 2017, records show.

Maldonado declined to comment. His chief of staff, Kathleen Oskandy, said Lopez attended a ward open house and asked Maldonado to consider him for an internship.

Advertisement

“Our office was not aware of the order of protection” by Lopez’s ex-wife, Oskandy said. “If we had been, we would not have considered him for an internship.”

[ Lawsuit accuses CHA of hiring Mercy Hospital gunman despite past harassment complaints ]

Lopez wasn’t on the city’s do-not-hire list, but the city has changed its policy so an applicant fired for missing work would be on it, said Human Resources Department spokeswoman Michelle Levar.

After the internship, Lopez was given a letter signed by Maldonado praising his “great professional knowledge and personal enthusiasm.”

That letter was part of Lopez’s paperwork as he won a $40,000 job with the Chicago Housing Authority in February 2018.

As with Lopez’s time at the Fire Department, a former co-worker alleged in a pending lawsuit against the CHA that he was “volatile” and “physically imposed himself” on her. The woman alleged she was fired after Lopez falsely accused her of sexually harassing him.

CHA officials declined to comment beyond a statement issued after the hospital shooting, which said he was hired after a background check and had no history of complaints.

Advertisement

One detail in his CHA personnel file stands out — as a professional reference, he listed Dr. O’Neal, the fiancee he killed less than a year after he got the job.

Those who knew Lopez in his youth were stunned to see his face splashed across the news as the perpetrator of a shooting spree. As his victims were publicly memorialized, Lopez was remembered at an unpublicized funeral attended by scores of people who knew him from church in his younger years, said Lyons, the pastor.

For Lyons, Lopez’s crime and his history of allegations of threatening behavior have proven difficult to reconcile with the teenager he knew.

A lot can change in a few years, the pastor acknowledged.

dhinkel@chicagotribune.com

echerney@chicagotribune.com