Update

More details are being released about an officer-involved shooting that left one Bremen man dead.

The shooting happened Friday morning just before 9:00 along Park Street.

Kentucky State Police say they received complaints about terroristic threatening in the Bremen area.

Two KSP Troopers, Rob Austin and Justin Cornett, responded to the scene, along with a Muhlenberg County Sheriff’s deputy and a Central City officer.

When they arrived, they found 46-year-old Christopher Anderson inside a vehicle at a home on Park Street.

Police say Anderson got out of the vehicle, brandishing a firearm and confronted them.

Several shots were fired during a confrontation. Anderson was pronounced dead at the scene.

Police say Anderson was shot by Rob Austin and Justin Cornett, who have been placed on administrative leave until further notice.

None of the officers were injured during this incident.

This is an ongoing investigation.

We will update information as it becomes available.

Update

One person is dead following an officer-involved shooting in Bremen, Kentucky. The incident happened Friday morning around 9:00 near the intersection of Main Street and Park Street.

According to the KSP Bowling Green PIO, this was an officer-involved shooting, but no officers were injured in the incident.

Neighbors say they heard several shots Friday morning, then they say police shut down Park Street.

Few details have been released about the shooting incident.

Muhlenberg County Sheriff’s deputies and KSP are on scene investigating.

We have a crew at the scene and will update information as it becomes available.

Original

A deadly shooting investigation is underway in Bremen, Kentucky. The incident happened Friday morning around 9:00 near the intersection of Main Street and Park Street.

Muhlenberg County Sheriff’s deputies and Kentucky State Police are on scene investigating the shooting.

There’s no word on what caused the shooting or if there are any suspects at this time.

Neighbors tell Eyewitness News that one person was shot near Park Street. Park Street has been closed off for over two hours.

Kentucky State Police is investigating this incident.

We have a crew at the scene and will update information as it becomes available.

For the latest breaking news and stories from across the Tri-State, follow Eyewitness News on Facebook and Twitter.