Anthony Garzilli,Shellie Murdaugh

anthony.garzilli@jaspercountysun.com

One man died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, a woman remained in critical but stable condition Monday, and a Jasper County Sheriff’s Office deputy continues to recover from a gunshot wound suffered after a domestic dispute call Thanksgiving morning, the Jasper County Sheriff's Office said.

Three deputies responded to a call on Nov. 22 around 5:30 a.m. to the 1800 block of Bees Creek Road near Graham Hall Road. When they pulled up to the house, Jasper County Sheriff Chris Malphrus said a male suspect began shooting at the deputies with a shotgun and a rifle; a female deputy was struck below the right eye with what Malphrus thinks was either bullet fragments or a pellet from the shotgun. She was airlifted from the scene to Memorial Health University Medical Center in Savannah.

The deputy was identified by Malphrus as Heather Betz. The sheriff believed Thanksgiving morning that Betz had surgery, but he said this week she was expected to see an eye specialist Monday and will have surgery sometime this week to remove the pellet. A K-9 handler, Betz has been with the sheriff’s office for eight months.

“The suspect was firing a rifle and a shotgun at the deputies,” Malphrus said. “Due to the incident, we have three deputies who responded to the call who are now on administrative leave who fired their weapons during the incident. We followed our protocol and procedurally we did everything correctly.”

South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is investigating.

"SLED’s investigation into the case is continuing,” SLED spokesman Thom Berry said Monday. “We are conducting interviews while evidence collected from the scene Thursday is being processed in SLED’s forensic laboratory in Columbia. Our agents will be preparing a case file with all of the information collected in the investigation. That file will then be presented to prosecutors to determine whether any criminal charges are appropriate.”

The suspect also shot a female (who made the initial 911 call) in the house, the sheriff said. She was flown to the hospital after suffering a gunshot wound to the head, the sheriff said. Malphrus said Monday the shooting victim had gone through multiple surgeries and was in critical but stable condition.

Malphrus said Monday morning that because his department responded fast, he believed the response helped save the woman's life.

The deceased shooting suspect was identified last week by Jasper County Coroner Martin Sauls as Jason Floyd Cribb, 36, of Ridgeland. Sauls said Cribb died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Malphrus said Cribb was found dead inside the front door.

Malphrus said two police cars were damaged by gunshots during the incident. The other two deputies involved in the incident were not injured. Hardeeville and Ridgeland police and S.C. Department of Natural Resources assisted.

“We ask for continued prayers for the deputies and all involved in this incident,” Malphrus said.

This is the third officer-involved shooting incident in Jasper County in 22 months since Malphrus took office. In January 2017, a call was received about men with guns (AK-47 assault rifles, according to SLED) driving a Hummer near Purrysburg Road in Hardeeville. When a deputy arrived, the driver hit his vehicle and three men jumped out. One pointed a gun at the deputy, who fired multiple shots at the suspect with the gun. The deputy wasn’t injured. In April 2017, two officers were shot in Hardeeville. They survived and were recognized by the community for their efforts.

Berry said this was the 36th officer-involved shooting incident in South Carolina this year.