HARRISON, MI – Prosecutors have ruled Clare County Sheriff’s deputies were legally justified when they shot and killed a man several months ago.

In a 16-page statement released Tuesday, March 12, Clare County Prosecutor Michelle J. Ambrozaitis wrote she has reviewed investigative reports related to the Nov. 21 fatal shooting of 42-year-old Robert W. “Bob” Reid III and decided the three officers involved acted lawfully.

“An officer-involved shooting is always traumatic for everyone involved and for the community as a whole,” Ambrozaitis wrote. “The investigation and ultimate determination by the prosecuting attorney can take time; however, it is imperative that every piece of information is reviewed, studied, and re-reviewed to ensure that there is a full and accurate understanding of the event so as to reach the appropriate decision.”

The shooting was precipitated by a woman calling 911 at 9:23 p.m. to report Reid, her husband, had placed a loaded gun against her head and threatened to kill her inside a residence on South Finley Lake Avenue in Lincoln Township. During the 14-minute call, the wife says Reid went to his garage, which was filled with guns, and took her two handguns from her.

A sheriff’s sergeant and three deputies responded to the scene. As they approached the property, they saw Reid exit a camper and walk toward the residence, holding a semiautomatic rifle as he did so. The deputies repeatedly yelled for Reid to drop the gun but he continued to walking toward the house his wife was in, the report said.

When it became clear Reid wasn’t going to stop approaching the house, Sgt. Aaron Miller, Deputy Steven Sentz, and Deputy Ryan Weakman fired their weapons at him over a three-second span.

Reid fell to the ground and officers ceased firing. They approached Reid and found he also had a handgun near him. Reid was handcuffed and officers found two more handguns and a knife on him. Two of the handguns were those Reid had taken from his wife earlier in the evening.

Mobile Medical Response personnel arrived on scene and pronounced Reid deceased at 9:52 p.m.

Each of the deputies involved provided written statements of the events. Prosecutors also reviewed about 4.5 hours of body camera footage.

Detectives with the Michigan State Police 6th District Headquarters took over the investigation of the officer-involved shooting. Reid’s wife reiterated to them that her husband had threatened her with a handgun to the point she thought he was going to kill her, the report states.

An autopsy report indicated Reid had sustained 15 gunshot wounds. His blood alcohol level was 0.267. In Michigan, a person is legally intoxicated when their blood alcohol level reaches 0.08.

“The review of this event is not to determine whether the officers involved could have or might have done something different,” Ambrozaitis wrote. “The sole question to be answered is whether the shooting of Robert was a criminal act.”

Deputies were legally on the premises, having been summoned there by Reid’s wife and based on what she had told them and what they came to observe, they had probable cause to have arrested Reid on several charges, the prosecutor wrote.

“Robert escalated the situation when he failed to follow their lawful commands to drop his weapon and put his hands up,” Ambrozaitis continued. “When it became clear Robert was not going to drop his weapon and that he continued to be an immediate danger to (his wife) and the officers involved, the officers acted in proper defense of (her) and each other when they shot him.”

The officers believed Reid posed an immediate, deadly threat to themselves and Reid’s wife and were thus legally justified in shooting him, Ambrozaitis concluded.