More details have emerged about the violent struggle between an inmate, a Wayne County Sheriff's deputy and a driver that took place inside of a private ambulance during rush hour Friday, ending with the deputy fatally shooting the inmate.

At a news conference Monday, Wayne County Undersheriff Dan Pfannes described the scene inside the ambulance. He called it "chaotic, unbelievable pandemonium ... (a) life or death struggle."

The inmate was identified as 23-year-old Martez Webb of Detroit.

Webb was being transported from an area hospital to the Wayne County Jail Division I, where he was to be checked into the infirmary. He was in a wheelchair inside the ambulance on westbound I-94 near I-75 when he became violent and grabbed the deputy's weapon, Pfannes said.

Pfannes said the deputy used mace and was able to get his gun back with the help of the ambulance driver.

The deputy ended up shooting Webb, Pfannes said.

"It was an extremely violent struggle, and I am very, very thankful for the presence of mind of the driver and for the actions that he took part in and the selfless actions that he engaged in," he said.

Pfannes said Webb had spent seven days in the hospital after being shot during an attempted robbery involving his brother. The victim in the incident disarmed one of the men. Webb's brother was fatally shot, and Webb received a nonfatal gunshot wound.

Pfannes said he could not confirm when that incident took place, but charging documents show that Webb was arrested by Detroit police on Nov. 16.

.

Previously, Webb had served time for a concealed weapons charge in 2017. He was released in April.

A task force including Detroit Police and Michigan State Police is investigating the incident, Pfannes said, adding that the sheriff's office will conduct an internal probe as well.

The deputy who fatally shot Webb has been on the force for more than 13 years, and reached the rank of corporal, Pfannes added. He was taken to the hospital for injuries and has since been released.

Webb suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Wayne County Medical Examiner’s Office, which has his full name listed as Martez Storey-Webb Jr. Lisa Croff, a spokeswoman for the office, said his death was ruled a homicide.

The ramp from westbound I-94 to I-75 was shut down for several hours Friday as authorities investigated the shooting.

Also on Freep.com:

GM plant closings in Detroit, Ohio, Canada: What we know

Report: Trump considering this Michigander to be UN ambassador

Contact Aleanna Siacon: ASiacon@freepress.com. Follow Twitter: @AleannaSiacon. Staff writer Ann Zaniewski contributed to this report.