The Knoxville Police Department officer who fatally shot a 23-year-old woman armed with a knife in November has been deemed justified in his actions, according to a memo released Wednesday by the Knox County District Attorney General's Office.

Witnesses told investigators that Sierra McCauley had stripped naked, doused herself in lighter fluid and cut herself and another person with a combat knife before the Nov. 26 shooting on Haywood Avenue in South Knoxville, the document says.

Three 911 calls "reveal citizens pleading with the subject to get her to stop harming herself. Officers (Gerald) George and (James) Gadd arrived and confronted the subject and made demands for her to drop the knife ... numerous times to no avail," reads the memo from District Attorney General Charme Allen to Knox County Sheriff Tom Spangler, whose agency investigated the shooting as part of an agreement with KPD.

"In front of multiple witnesses, the subject raised the knife and charged at Officer Gadd, and he discharged his firearm once in her abdomen (which lodged in her spine) causing her death," the memo continues.

Allen concluded the shooting was justified as self-defense and the investigation should be closed as a justifiable homicide.

Although KPD officers are not equipped with body cameras, 911 recordings and footage from the dashboard camera in Gadd's cruiser documented the shooting "in remarkable detail" and "made this review fairly straightforward," the memo reads. Additionally, investigators found "no major inconsistencies" in the statements of the six people who witnessed the shooting, a figure that includes the two officers.

The shooting occurred after one of McCauley's coworkers called 911 at 1:18 p.m. and said she had been attacked by McCauley, who was wielding a knife with a 7-inch blade, at a home on Compton Street.

Two neighbors — one who witnessed the assault and another who found the wounded coworker — also called 911. They reported McCauley was cutting herself while wandering nude outside, and that she had tried to set herself on fire.

Officer George reported that when he arrived, McCauley ran away, ignored his commands to drop the knife and told him she "wanted to die."

Officer Gadd, a 23-year KPD veteran, arrived second. He gave 10 verbal commands in 22 seconds before pulling the trigger — including "Put the knife down" four times and "Tase her" once, according to the memo.

McCauley "is described as continuing to close the gap on Officer Gadd while he is backpedaling with his weapon drawn in an effort to keep his distance," the memo reads. "Despite these obvious commands the subject closes the gap from 25 feet to 4 feet with the knife raised before Officer Gadd finally discharges his weapon."

Thirteen seconds after Gadd fired the shot, George said he was "too far away."

The memo says that, according to witnesses, McCauley had never been suicidal and had appeared mentally stable in the weeks leading up to the shooting.

Although an autopsy found no conclusive explanations for McCauley's behavior, Knox County Medical Examiner Dr. William Oliver offered some possible explanations that will be shared with her family.

The case marked the first fatal shooting by a KPD officer since 2014.

Homicide tracker: Violence claimed 30 lives in Knox County in 2018. Here are those cases.