Tim Hrenchir

threnchir@cjonline.com

A Topeka motorist was intoxicated on methamphetamine when he was fatally shot Nov. 27 by a Kansas Highway Patrol trooper who was being dragged by that man's vehicle, an autopsy report says.

The report by Shawnee County District Coroner Ransom Ellis said methamphetamine, amphetamine and marijuana were found in the system of Jarmane D. Logan, 35, of 1024 N.W. Jackson, Apt. B.

The 6-foot, 251-pound Logan died of a single gunshot wound to the torso suffered at the intersection of N.E. Grant and Monroe, the report said. Ellis classified Logan's cause of death as homicide.

The trooper acted justifiably in fatally shooting Logan, who had been driving a sport utility vehicle that was dragging the trooper and a Topeka police officer through the snow, Shawnee County District Attorney Mike Kagay said in January.

Ellis' autopsy report said, "The direction of the gunshot was right to left, slightly front to back, and downward with the decendent's arm likely in a raised position, as if holding on to a steering wheel."

The report identified "acute methamphetamine intoxication" as having been present.

Kagay said in January that his office wouldn’t seek any criminal charges against the trooper, whose name hasn’t been made public.

The Topeka Capital-Journal this week acquired a copy of Logan’s autopsy report from the office of Shawnee County District Court clerk Angela Callahan. The newspaper had requested the report last month.

A stamp on the report indicated it had initially been suppressed from public release because of an ongoing investigation but was changed March 4 from a suppressed record to a public record.

Kagay said Logan during the late morning on Nov. 27 pulled up to the intersection of N.E. Grant and Monroe as the highway patrol and Topeka police tried to take Chelsee Retana into custody after initially stopping to assist with her stalled vehicle.

Before getting into the SUV, Retana and Misty Maspero had been occupants of a maroon Hyundai Genesis, which had been involved in a chase with a highway patrol trooper earlier in the day, authorities said. The Hyundai had become disabled at N.E. Grant and Monroe.

Authorities said Logan was driving away with Retana and Maspero as passengers — while dragging the officer and trooper — when Logan refused to stop the vehicle and the trooper shot him.

Retana is scheduled to face a pretrial hearing July 11 in Shawnee County District Court on charges that include interference with law enforcement and possession of methamphetamine, both felonies. No record of charges having been filed against Maspero could be found Thursday on the Shawnee County District Court website.