A man who police say opened fire on an officer during a domestic dispute was shot and killed Wednesday night.

As Louisville Metro police officers arrived at the home about 11 p.m. in southeastern Louisville, they were approached by the mother and father of 35-year-old Benjamin Kennedy.

Their son was inside the home with a shotgun, the father told Officer William Mattingly.

“He’s taken eight somethings. I don’t know what it was,” the mother said, as seen in body camera footage. “And he’s wild.”

“Please don’t shoot him,” she told Mattingly.

“I’m not planning on it,” he replied, telling her to back away from the home.

Minutes later, as Mattingly is at the rear of the home, Kennedy emerges, shotgun in hand.

You may like:A man on a bike hilariously photobombed a Louisville couple's proposal

Body camera footage from two officers, released Thursday by the department, is dark and provides few visuals of the shooting.

But it does capture Mattingly yelling, "drop the gun," three times before four shots ring out.

Lt. Aaron Crowell, commander of the Public Integrity Unit — which investigates police shootings — said those four shots came from Kennedy's gun.

Four more shots are heard soon after, as Mattingly returned fire, and Kennedy went back inside the house in the 9900 block of Mary Dell Lane, Crowell said.

A little more than four minutes pass before Kennedy comes out the front door with the shotgun.

Another officer, Dallas Constant, yells, "drop it" twice before he fired three shots, video shows. It does not appear Kennedy fired any additional shots.

Also:Man who confessed to 90 murders was arrested in Louisville

Kennedy dropped to the front stoop of the house where he was pronounced dead soon after.

Crowell told reporters Thursday that when Kennedy was shot, he was engaging other officers in the street and was being "verbally and physically threatening."

No officers were hurt in the shooting.

While a number of officers responded to the home, only two fired. Constant began with the department in September 2017. Mattingly was rehired by the department in November 2017 after having retired with more than 20 years experience.

"We do what we can to de-escalate situations any time we get an opportunity, and in this situation, again, it's so early in the investigation I don’t know what officers had an opportunity to do or not do," Conrad said at the shooting scene early Thursday morning.

'It was never a threat':Man behind Trinity tweets about Brohm arrested

Per department policy, Mattingly and Constant have been reassigned to administrative duties. The Public Integrity Unit is investigating, as it does in all police-involved shootings.

After the police investigation, the Jefferson Commonwealth Attorney's Office will review the case to determine if any criminal charges are appropriate.

How many Louisville police shootings have there been in 2018?

According to department data and Courier Journal archives, Louisville Metro Police have had eight police shooting cases this year prior to Kennedy's death, including five in which a person was killed.

In February, a detective conducting a traffic stop was shot in the head by a man inside the car, who was then shot and killed by another officer, according to police. The detective survived. A second car occupant also died in the police gunfire.

On April 8, a man was shot and killed after police said he was acting erratically with a screwdriver in hand. Officers attempted to use tasers, but they didn't work correctly. Bowman eventually ran at an officer, body camera footage showed, and officers fired their guns.

On April 24, a man suspected of robbing a Metro PCS store was fleeing from police and was shot more than 20 times as three officers and a detective opened fire. Police have said the man, who died, also fired at officers.

One day later, a man who police said threw a knife at an officer was shot and killed.

On July 5, an officer responding to a domestic disturbance shot a man after police said he threatened a woman with a knife and wouldn't drop the weapon.

There were four fatal shootings involving officers in Louisville in 2017.

Thomas Novelly contributed reporting. Reporter Matthew Glowicki can be reached at 502-582-4989 or mglowicki@courier-journal.com. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courier-journal.com/mattg.

Earlier this year:There were 4 police shootings in April. That's as many as 2017

See also: Father and child found dead inside Pleasure Ridge Park garage