Authorities have released the identity of a man who was shot and killed by a deputy last week after reportedly firing at deputies during a pursuit.

Matthew John Lorenzen, 19, of Rapid City, died at the scene a little after 12:15 p.m. Friday after he was shot by a Pennington County sheriff's deputy, according to a news release from the South Dakota Attorney General's Office.

The name of the deputy who shot Lorenzen has not been released. Helene Duhamel, spokeswoman for the Pennington County Sheriff's Office, said that when Lorenzen reportedly shot at authorities, the deputy became a victim under the terms of Marsy's Law, a package of victims' rights laws adopted by voters in 2016. The deputy may therefore choose to have his name withheld from the public, she said.

"We’ll let you know when and if he wants that info released," Duhamel said of the deputy. She added that the deputy's choice should be known in a day or two.

Per the policy of the Sheriff's Office, Duhamel said, the deputy has been placed on administrative leave.

Attorney General Marty Jackley confirmed Monday morning that the state Division of Criminal Investigation is investigating the shooting at the request of the Pennington County Sheriff’s Office.

According to authorities, the Pennington County Sheriff’s Office tried to initiate a traffic stop near South Highway 79 and Old Folsom Road in Rapid City, which resulted in a vehicle pursuit through parts of Rapid City and Box Elder. Lorenzen reportedly fired at deputies during the pursuit.

The chase ended when the suspect's vehicle rolled into a ditch on the west side of 161st Avenue, just south of the eastbound Exit 78 of Interstate 90 near New Underwood. After the vehicle rolled and landed upside down, Lorenzen allegedly exited the vehicle with a weapon and was shot by the deputy.

DCI will issue a case report and shooting summation to be reviewed by the attorney general for a final determination on the officer’s action. That's expected within 30 days, according to the news release.

Lorenzen's criminal record in South Dakota shows no prior violent crimes, but he was arrested for drug-related crimes twice during the final few months of 2017. Although the Attorney General's Office said Monday that Lorenzen was from Rapid City, his past criminal cases listed an address in Box Elder.

One of those cases was opened in September 2017 when Lorenzen was pulled over in Lawrence County for driving a vehicle without license plates. Evidence found during the traffic stop resulted in charges of driving under the influence, marijuana possession, possession of drug paraphernalia and possession of a controlled substance.

In March, Lorenzen accepted a plea deal and pleaded guilty to DUI and possession of 2 ounces or less of marijuana. He was sentenced to 20 days in jail with credit for eight days already served.

While that case was pending, Lorenzen was pulled over by a Pennington County sheriff's deputy in December 2017 for speeding. Evidence turned up during that traffic stop resulted in charges of DUI and marijuana possession. The case was still pending at the time of Lorenzen's death. He was free on a bail bond and was scheduled for a court hearing next Monday after hearings in October and August had been continued.