C. A. Bridges,Frank Fernandez,Tony Holt

chris.bridges@news-jrnl.com

As a man lay shot dead in another room and a SWAT team assembled outside his apartment, 60-year-old Noel Flores called 9-1-1 to say he wanted to talk to police and then prayed with the 9-1-1 operator. After a stand-off hours later, Flores then took his own life.

"I believe in God," Flores told the 9-1-1 operator. "I got faith and everything. All of this went crazy and I can’t believe I’m going to take my life. I’m sitting here with my wife’s nephew next to me dead."

Deputies heard the gunfire when Flores shot 44-year-old Arthur Johnson to death in their unit at the Belltower Apartments, 530 Belltower Avenue, officials said.

The 9-1-1 operator asked Flores who killed the man.

"I did. 'Cause he pulled a gun on me," Flores said.

About six hours later, after SWAT entered the apartment, one of the deputies yanked open a door to a closet and watched Flores shoot himself in the chest, Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said.

Deputies had gone there to arrest Flores, who was accused of calling in bomb threats on Nov. 6 to the Volusia County Courthouse in DeLand where he had a hearing that week on a felony criminal mischief charge.

Body camera video recorded what sounded like a gunshot and a man shouting "No Noel," "No man," "No" and then what sounded like another gunshot.

Chitwood told reporters Friday that deputies heard the first gunshot and then peered through a window. The instant they realized what happened, they peeled back and heard a second shot, he said.

Flores told 9-1-1 that when deputies arrived Thursday night Johnson was trying to go outside.

"He was trying to come out the door," Flores said. "but what he did to me right now he put the gun to my head and told me he's going out the door."

Flores said he took the 9mm pistol away from Johnson.

"I told him 'Look, I’m not going to jail. I’d rather just die than go to jail because I’m 60 years old.' I snatched the gun from him, so he's laying out in his room right now," Flores said.

Chitwood said Johnson was lying on his back and was gripping the handle of a knife with his right hand. The blade, he said, was pointed toward the ceiling. It was evident to law enforcement that the gunman put the knife in Johnson's hand after he was shot, the sheriff told the media. He added that it was clear it was not a self-defense shooting.

Flores shot himself about 1 a.m. Friday, ending the six-hour standoff that began about 7 p.m. Thursday.

"His mind was made up," Chitwood said.

Johnson was the nephew of Flores' deceased wife.

Flores has a criminal record going back to 2008 in Volusia including arrests for burglary and grand theft. Flores has an extensive criminal record in New York, including 20 felony charges with five felony convictions and 11 misdemeanor convictions. The charges include robbery, weapons possession, arson and burglary.

[READ MORE: Deputies looking for suspect in bomb threats to courthouse in DeLand.]

The 9-1-1 dispatcher attempted to calm Flores during two phone calls, said Sheriff's Office spokesman Andrew Gant said.

“…If you don’t listen to anything else that I say, can you just please put that gun down?” Gant said the female dispatcher asked multiple times.

Flores told the 9-1-1 operator that he did not want to return to jail.

“I love you so much because you’re helping me out, but I’m just telling you the truth: I cannot do it, I cannot do it. I can’t,” he told her.

Flores said he had no intention of hurting any law enforcement officers, Gant said.

Negotiators on scene were able to contact Flores and talk to him, Gant said, but he was unwilling to leave.

Chitwood said Flores had met him once at church and wanted to speak to him, so Flores and Chitwood spoke on the phone briefly during the standoff.

"He wanted his story out there," Chitwood said, recalling the conversation. "He didn't want people to think he was a bad guy. ... (And) he went a long way to paint the victim as a bad guy."

Flores told deputies that Johnson was a drug abuser and he insisted the drugs that were inside the apartment were not his. Chitwood said no drugs were found inside the house.

Eventually, a bomb robot with a camera mounted on it was sent inside the apartment, but there was no sign of Flores.

Members of the agency's SWAT team entered the apartment shortly after 1 a.m. and one of them tried opening the door to a bedroom closet. There was resistance, so the door was pulled open with more force and that's when Flores pulled the trigger and shot himself in the chest, Chitwood said. After life-saving measures were performed on the scene by a deputy and then a Deltona Fire Rescue paramedic, Gant said, Flores was pronounced dead at Central Florida Regional Hospital in Sanford.

An autopsy is being performed in Lake County, Chitwood said.

The American Red Cross was on the scene assisting displaced families, according to the Sheriff's Office. About 30 or so residents in the building had to be evacuated.

Flores had a pre-trial hearing scheduled on Nov. 6 on a charge of felony criminal mischief before Circuit Judge Raul Zambrano at the DeLand courthouse. The charge stemmed from accusations that Flores cut the brake lines and poured sugar into the tank of a Toyota pickup owned by Steven Miller of Deltona. Flores had a dispute with Miller over a mutual female friend, who was Flores' deceased wife's sister, a report said.

The threats to the Volusia County Courthouse in DeLand were made on Nov. 6 by a man dressed as a construction worker who asked to borrow a phone at a Metro PCS store, according to investigators. Investigators said that man was Flores, who made two calls and said that people "were going to die" the next day at the courthouse. Chitwood said the caller also mentioned that he intended to kill blacks, Jews and Hispanics who were in the courthouse. Flores, who was Puerto Rican, used an ethnic slur for Hispanics, the sheriff said.

Deputies and a bomb-sniffing K-9 checked the four-story courthouse and found no bomb.

Court records don't indicate what happened at the Nov. 6 hearing for Flores except that another hearing was scheduled for Nov. 21. And another hearing was set for Flores on Jan. 8.