Associated Press

News briefs

Autopsy released in arrest death CHEYENNE - A man who stopped breathing when police tried to restrain him died of natural causes, an autopsy concluded.

Robert Dick, 45, of Cheyenne, died May 21 at United Medical Center-West, where he had been hospitalized after collapsing May 13 as police used restraints to arrest him.

Dick was arrested after reportedly running into traffic waving a gun.

According to a police, Dick became combative as officers attempted to restrain and handcuff him. He stopped breathing when they placed him in what's known as a body wrap to immobilize his legs.

Witnesses said police did not appear to use excessive force. Laramie County District Attorney Jon Forwood declined to pursue the matter.

Man pleads guilty in truck driver's killing LARAMIE - A man pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of second-degree murder in the January shooting death of a truck driver he gave a ride to after meeting in a bar.

Christopher Shandy, 24, of Laramie, also pleaded guilty Thursday to kidnapping and aggravated robbery charges in the death of Phillip Wayne Shores, who was found dead from a gunshot wound Jan. 18.

He faces up to 65 years in prison. No sentencing date has been set.

Shandy changed his plea after 2nd District Court Judge Jeffrey Donnell ruled that statements he made to police could be used as evidence.

Shandy's attorneys had asked that the statements be rejected, saying they were made involuntarily when Shandy was in extreme emotional distress after learning Shores had died.

Attorneys said Shandy was crying and shaking during the police interview and officers should have stopped the questioning.

But Donnell last week ruled the statements were made voluntarily, and that Shandy was coherent and cooperative at the time.

Sheriff's deputies found Shores' body in an irrigation ditch northwest of Laramie after tracing a blood trail from some personal items on a road. A tipster allegedly implicated Shandy in the murder.

Shandy was arrested later that day while driving on Wyoming 230.

Oil, gas rig count decreases by 23 HOUSTON - The number of rigs actively exploring for oil and natural gas in the United States decreased this week by 23 to 1,074.

Of the rigs running nationwide, 920 were exploring for gas, 149 were looking for oil and five were listed as miscellaneous, Houston-based Baker Hughes Inc. reported Friday.

A year ago, the rig count was 854.

Baker Hughes has kept track of the count since 1944. The tally peaked at 4,530 on Dec. 28, 1981, during the height of the oil boom, but set several record lows in 1999, bottoming out at 488 on April 23, 1999.

Of the major oil- and gas-producing states, Texas and Louisiana each lost six rigs, Oklahoma lost five, New Mexico lost two and Alaska lost one. California gained one rig and Wyoming was unchanged.

Autopsy planned in death of baby girl WORLAND - An autopsy was planned in the sudden death of a 13-month-old girl at Washakie Medical Center early Thursday.

The unidentified girl was brought to the hospital Wednesday night with respiratory problems. She had been throwing up, had a runny nose and was given cough medicine at home, Washakie County Coroner Marty Martinson said.

The girl's condition continued to deteriorate, and she died before doctors could transfer her to a larger hospital.

Martinson said he suspected that there were other problems. Autopsy results were expected by the end of the week.

Injured climber rescued from Tetons MOOSE - An Idaho man was rescued by helicopter after falling while climbing a peak in Grand Teton National Park.

Darian McGavin, 31, of Victor, injured his left ankle in the 10-foot fall Thursday on the lower Exum Ridge of Grand Teton, park spokeswoman Jackie Skaggs said Friday.

A backcountry ranger helped McGavin walk to the Lower Saddle, where he was picked up by the helicopter and flown to safety, Skaggs said.

McGavin was treated at St. John's Medical Center in Jackson.

It was the 12th major search and rescue in the park this year.

Surgeons slow to commit to center SHERIDAN - No physicians have yet committed their services to an outpatient surgical center planned by the county's hospital.

Trustees at Memorial Hospital of Sheridan County decided last month to build the center after rejecting a joint agreement with physicians in May to operate a similar facility.

They did invite those physicians to participate in their plans.

But the rejection ended months of negotiations, and physicians have said they plan to build their own surgery center regardless of Memorial Hospital's intentions.

Ken Huey, the hospital's chief executive officer, was not concerned by the lack of response from physicians - saying it had only been a month.

The hospital hoped to begin construction in November. The center will cost $3 million to $4 million, including equipment.

Copyright 2003 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.