Comment on this story Comment Gift Article Share

The distress call came across Clifton Montgomery's emergency radio. A patient wearing a hospital gown, barefoot and disoriented, had walked out of MedStar Washington Hospital Center and was trying to leave the hospital grounds. Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight Montgomery, who was then a special police officer with the hospital, said that as he responded, he saw the patient, 74-year-old James E. McBride, punching another guard, Charles Brown.

"I had to act fast. He was violent and kept throwing punches," Montgomery recently told a jury. "There was no time to assess the situation. He was already violent and he was a threat."

What happened next that September day in 2015 is at the center of a criminal trial that has been unfolding in D.C. Superior Court.

D.C. prosecutors allege that Montgomery and Brown used excessive force to restrain McBride, violently tackling him to the ground and ultimately causing a fatal neck injury. The guards each face a charge of involuntary manslaughter.

Advertisement

Defense attorneys say the two guards acted appropriately to handle an agitated patient. They say McBride suffered from a preexisting spinal condition — unknown to both Brown and Montgomery at the time — that made his bones brittle and led to his death.

Closing arguments in the trial before Judge Jose Lopez, which began in November, are set for Monday.

After emotional testimony from McBride's widow, as well as accounts of eyewitnesses, bone specialists and medical experts, Brown and Montgomery each took the stand in recent weeks, giving their first public statements on the Sept. 29, 2015, incident.

Montgomery, 32, said as he came upon the incident he approached McBride from behind, clasped him in a bear hug and tried to pull him to a seated position to calm him.

He said he did not know that McBride was elderly. "I just saw a tall man in a hospital gown who appeared to suddenly become violent," he said. Defense attorneys said McBride was about 6 feet tall and 240 pounds.

Advertisement

Montgomery told jurors his foot slipped on the wet grass and he and McBride fell to the ground, with Montgomery landing on top of the patient.

Prosecutors had a far different view based on eyewitness accounts. They argued that as Brown was trying to coax McBride back into the hospital, Montgomery, who is 6-foot-2 and 300 pounds, came from behind, grabbed McBride and slammed him to the ground.

"It was like a linebacker blindsiding a quarterback, a power-drive move to the ground," Assistant U.S. Attorney Bridgette Tillman said during her opening statements. "Mr. McBride never saw it coming."

Prosecutors say as McBride was on the ground, Montgomery then knelt on McBride's body. Prosecutors say Brown crouched on the ground next to McBride, and pushed McBride's head to the ground, pressing his weight on McBride's head.

Advertisement

On the stand, Brown, 44, disputed that account. At times wiping tears away as the judge provided him tissues, Brown insisted that he never pushed McBride's head against the ground. He testified that he knelt next to McBride and used three fingers to hold the patient's head still, fearing that McBride was trying to spit at or bite him or Montgomery.

"I don't think I did anything wrong. I don't think I did anything to kill him," said Brown, who had worked as a guard for the hospital for nine years before the altercation with McBride. Brown's mother had previously worked as a nurse at the hospital.

Brown's attorney, Christopher Mead, said because McBride repeatedly swung his fist at him, Brown could have arrested him on charges of assault on a police officer. While not officers with the D.C. police department, the guards were armed and had arrest powers. They had been trained using D.C. police guidelines.

Advertisement

"That's not what I wanted to do," Brown said. "I just wanted him to get back inside to get help."

Brown testified that when hospital officials first summoned him to the street outside the complex, he saw McBride walking, with a nurse next to him trying to persuade him to go back inside the hospital. As Brown walked up to him, McBride swung at him twice, causing Brown to avoid the punches, Brown said.

Brown testified that McBride did not want to go back to the hospital and repeatedly said, "I'm going to die in there." McBride, who had diabetes, had been brought to the hospital because of dizziness and also was being tested for dementia, according to testimony.

Under cross-examination by prosecutors, Brown said that he had earlier told authorities that he pushed McBride's head and that he failed to follow security procedures.

Advertisement

Brown said he was startled when, as he was guiding McBride back to the hospital, the patient pulled away and swung at him.

"I was like, 'Sir, please calm down. We don't want to fight. I just want to get you back into the building,' " Brown told the jury.

This is when Brown said Montgomery arrived at the scene and intervened.

Montgomery testified he never knelt on McBride's body as the two were on the ground. He said he held McBride's arms, saying, "Sir, please calm down."

At one point, Montgomery's attorney, David Schertler, asked his client to step down from the witness stand and demonstrate for the jury how he grabbed McBride. At one point, Schertler's legs were lifted off the floor as Montgomery held him and the two men ended up on the floor.

Montgomery said he was "in shock" when he learned of McBride's injuries.

Advertisement

"That was the safest way I could handle the situation," he testified. He said the encounter happened in seconds.

Brown similarly told the jury, "I was not intending to hurt him. It's such a sad situation. We just tried to get him back inside the hospital so he could receive treatment and it just went in another direction." As he spoke, McBride's wife stood up and walked out of the courtroom. McBride's daughter silently wiped away tears.

Montgomery also said that he earlier told authorities that he "took" McBride to the ground. Prosecutors said that statement proved it was Montgomery's intent to knock McBride to the ground. During the trial, Montgomery said he had misspoken then.

Neither Brown nor Montgomery is employed at the hospital.

In an emailed statement, MedStar Washington spokeswoman Donna Arbogast called McBride's death a "devastating and transformational moment" for the hospital. She said it led to changes involving hiring and training of individuals involved in public safety at the hospital.