RICHMOND, VA (WWBT) - RICHMOND, VA (WWBT) - One of the victims in a triple stabbing underwent another surgery Thursday morning, according to family friends. This comes after the woman and her parents were stabbed by suspect Anthony Edwards of Chesterfield, according to Richmond police.

The violent domestic altercation in the Fan turned deadly on Wednesday after two Richmond police officers opened fire on Edwards, who had stabbed his ex-girlfriend, and her family. Police say Edwards refused to drop the knife, as he continued to stab the woman.

“The three stabbing victims are expected to recover,” RPD said in a news release Thursday. “They all knew their attacker who was a former boyfriend of one of the female victims.”

Friends of the victims say the mother was planning on filing a protective order against Edwards. There was a domestic-related incident at the home a week prior to Wednesday’s shooting, that brought police to the residence.

Next-door-neighbor Shyvida Felder said she watched Edwards, who appeared enraged, chase the mother and her two daughters into a nearby convenience store, Meads Market. Felder said the mother and her children were barefoot and screaming while they ran out of the house.

"I seen the young lady and the kids come running out of the house like ‘Help! He's crazy!" described Felder. "He just looked very angry and upset when he was running after them."

Meads Market employee Joanna Hicks-Boudreaux said she helped protect the two daughters, shielding them behind her counter, as the suspect chased the girls and the mother into the store.

"They were just terrified, saying, ‘Please don't let him hurt my mom,’” said Hicks-Boudreaux.

Hicks-Boudreaux says the suspect pulled out a knife when the mother refused to leave the store with him. The older daughter tried to stop the man from taking her mother.

"The oldest girl came charging behind him to fight him, and he pointed the knife at her and told her, ‘Don’t do it no more. I’m going to kill you.’” continued Hicks-Boudreaux.

Edwards led the mother back into the house at knife-point.

"He was like clutching her by her right arm, and he had the knife in his hand,” continued Felder, who had already called police.

Officers arrived shortly after Edwards and mother returned to the home. Police moved to the back of the house where they encountered the suspect stabbing the woman, according to detectives. An older man was also bloodied from stab wounds. Neighbors say the mother and her children lived with her parents.

Police say Edwards ignored commands to drop the knife and stop attacking the woman. That's when Police Chief Alfred Durham says both officers opened fire.

"After continuously asking the individual, or directing him to drop the weapon, he failed to do so. Officers discharged their weapons, their firearms, striking him several times about the body,” said Durham.

The officers were identified Thursday as two 21-year veterans with the Richmond Police Department: Master Police Officer Thomas Davis and Master Police Officer David Torrence. Davis and Torrence involved are on paid administrative leave, which is standard for anytime there’s an officer-involved shooting.

“The rank of Master Police Officer (MPO) is achieved by senior-level officers who have consistently demonstrated exceptional policing skills and leadership abilities through a variety of training and educational requirements,” RPD said Thursday.

The ACLU of Virginia sent a tweet urging RPD to release any body camera footage that may have been taken during the incident.

Friends and neighbors of the victims have since set up a GoFundMe for the family, to help cover medical costs, physical therapy, and much needed counseling for the children.

The Department’s Force Investigation Team continues to investigate the incident.

Anyone with information is asked to call Crime Stoppers at (804) 780-1000.

Richmond police are on the scene of an officer-involving shooting on Cary Street. ((Source: NBC12))

Richmond police are on the scene of an officer-involving shooting on Cary Street. ((Source: NBC12))

Richmond police are on the scene of an officer-involving shooting on Cary Street. ((Source: NBC12))

Copyright 2018 WWBT. All rights reserved.