The Shasta County District Attorney's Office on Wednesday said Redding police "were justified" when they shot at a man who had fired a handgun at them following a 2018 car chase.

The man who died, Benjamin Larson, 42, had made headlines in the summer of 2018 when he was arrested and accused of stealing a van of show dogs from In-N-Out.

On Dec. 6, Larson led police on a chase that ended in an exchange from gunfire off Interstate 5. When the dust settled, police approached his vehicle and found him dead from what appeared to be a self-inflicted head wound, according to the report the DA's Office released.

Three RPD officers were involved in the shooting: Travis Williams, Edward McGinnis and Nick Weaver.

Anytime an officer shoots at someone in Shasta County, the incident is reviewed by the DA's Office to see if the officer committed a crime when shooting. In this case, the office determined the shooting to be lawful.

What happened?

On the morning of Dec. 6, Williams was patrolling on Highway 273 when he noticed a gray Honda Civic that appeared to be stolen. After Larson didn't signal lane changes, Williams pulled him over.

As Williams got out of his patrol car, Larson sped away onto I-5, at one point reaching 120 mph, according to the DA's report.

With spike strips having torn his tires, Larson drove into grass on the shoulder near the Knighton Road exit of I-5. Larson's door opened and he started shooting at Williams, who took cover and returned fire, according to the DA.

A backup officer, McGinnis, then fired two shots toward Larson's vehicle after seeing subtle movement. From there, the officers waited for the Redding Police SWAT team.

With no further movement coming from Larson's car, Weaver fired a "less-than-lethal" beanbag at Larson, who had no reaction. At that point, officers figured Larson was dead.

Upon inspection, police found a 9 millimeter Sig Sauer P226 handgun that had been reported stolen. They also said they found a sawed-off shotgun under a towel.

Crime scene investigators and a pathologist opined that what killed Larson was a gunshot wound to the head that appeared to be self-inflicted. An autopsy found traces of methamphetamine and amphetamine in Larson's blood, according to the DA's report.

"The choices made by Officers Williams, McGinnis and Weaver to fire at Larson were not unreasonable under the circumstances," the DA's Office wrote. "We find the shooting to be lawful and will take no further action in this matter."

More:UPDATE: VIDEO: Police find 14 stolen show dogs in Redding; hear the moment

More:Redding man sentenced to prison in theft of 14 expensive show dogs

Matt Brannon covers politics, the criminal justice system and breaking news for the Record Searchlight. Follow him on Twitter @MattBrannon_RS. Support local coverage and keep up with the North State for as little as $1 a month. Subscribe today.