FORT PIERCE — Were it not for police and God, he’d be dead.

That’s what a man being chased by a meat-cleaver wielding Jesus Lainez, 51, in December said after a Fort Pierce police officer-involved shooting that left Lainez dead, according to a prosecutor.

Assistant State Attorney Steve Gosnell on Friday said a grand jury a day earlier cleared Officer Steven Graziano in the Dec. 6 shooting of Lainez on Alma Court.

Gosnell said Graziano’s actions stopped a homicide.

“We do have an officer-involved shooting that resulted in a fatality, but it prevented at least one murder, maybe more,’’ Gosnell said.

More: One dead after Fort Pierce police officer-involved shooting

Fort Pierce police have been largely silent after the shooting, saying the Florida Department of Law Enforcement was investigating.

Police spokeswoman Audria Moore-Wells said Graziano returned to duty Dec. 26.

What happened

Gosnell on Friday shared details of what occurred.

He said Graziano, who joined the Police Department in 2016, went to a domestic violence call at about 11:45 p.m. Dec. 6 in which a man reportedly struck a woman.

Gosnell said it was dark on Alma Court when Graziano arrived and he shined a light.

“As soon as he steps out of his car, he sees two figures running toward his car,” Gosnell said. “There’s one guy in the front, and one guy in the back.”

Gosnell said Lainez was in back, with the victim in front. Gosnell said the victim was going to the police car for refuge.

“Lainez is pursuing him, swinging the meat cleaver and actually not just swinging it, but making contact,” Gosnell said. “(The victim) had wounds in his head, his back, his hand. Pretty severe.”

Gosnell said the victim got somewhat behind Graziano.

More: 5 deputies cleared in fatal shooting during drug deal outside KFC eatery

“Even though the defendant is coming up on a squad car with an officer who at this point is pulling out his gun, he’s not stopping,” Gosnell said. “He actually makes contact with Graziano.”

Graziano pushed him back. Just before he pushed him, Lainez dropped the cleaver. He picked it up even though Graziano gave commands to drop it.

“He clearly dropped it inadvertently, or maybe because it glanced off the victim’s head or maybe it was slippery because there was blood on the handle,” Gosnell said. “He dropped it, but then immediately scooped it back up, meaning … he was not disarming himself.”

Gosnell said Lainez made contact with the officer, knocking off his body camera.

More: East Stuart homicide 1st from gunfire since 2009, Stuart police say

“You hear shots almost immediately after the body cam falls off,” Gosnell said.

Gosnell said nine shots were fired, seven hitting Lainez. The butcher cleaver was found under his body.

Gosnell said the entire incident from Graziano exiting his car to the gunfire ending lasted about 11 seconds.

The back story

Gosnell said Lainez dated a woman who lived in a neighboring apartment for years, but they broke up months prior to the incident.

The victim was the woman’s boss. The victim and the woman ate dinner at the woman’s father’s home. The victim dropped her off afterward, and Lainez was outside.

“As soon as she got out of (the victim’s) vehicle, (Lainez) approached her and slapped her,” Gosnell said. “That’s what caused her to call 911.”

Gosnell said the woman’s adult daughter tried to keep Lainez away, saying police were coming.

More: Arrest made after gunfire, SWAT team presence in neighborhood west of Florida's Turnpike

“He basically said, ‘I don’t care, I’m going to kill this guy,’” Gosnell said.

Gosnell said the victim survived and gave a full statement.

“He said that if it wasn’t for the cops and God he would have been dead,” Gosnell said.

Gosnell said police body cam footage was helpful, as were the victim’s wounds and what he saw.

“He actually chased, hacking the victim all the way up to the squad car, regardless of an officer being there, regardless of an officer pulling his gun out telling him to drop the knife,” Gosnell said.

“Nothing would have stopped him from killing this man. He had wounds in his head, his back, his hands. He was intent on killing this man.”

Want more Treasure Coast breaking news coverage? If you're already a subscriber to TCPalm, thank you! If not, please subscribe to keep coverage of Treasure Coast