SAVANNAH, Ga. (WSAV) – Body camera video just released to News 3 gives new insight into an officer-involved shooting that occurred late last year.

Joshua Boyd was shot and killed after he murdered his own girlfriend.

A Chatham County Grand Jury found the officers were justified in this shooting, and the video helps show why.

It was December 8, 2018, when a hotel manager heard gunshots and called officers to an America’s Best Value Inn.

Inside one room was 24-year-old Joshua Boyd and three other people. Boyd went there after killing his girlfriend Sandee Warren.

She was shot outside the same hotel.

“He keeps peeking out the window. I was advised by the female he is a black male with dreads and he is armed with a signal 20.”

“My brother got a gun.”

“A pistol or a rifle?”

“He’s got a gun he was trying to shoot himself.”

“He has a gun like this..(shows pistol)”

“Yes.. please don’t shoot him..”

That’s what Savannah officers heard from a friend of Joshua Boyd as he was holed up in that hotel room.

Body camera video shows officers on the scene with guns drawn as Boyd and two others come out of the hotel room.

As the other two men listen to police, put their hands up, get on the ground, and then crawl away from the area, Boyd is shown trying to get up.

As the officers testified — he had a gun in his hand.

Police noticed Boyd’s gun, and you can hear them asking him to drop it. But by then it was too late.

“Put your hands up! Stop, stop, stop. Stop moving. Gun! Gun! Don’t move, drop the gun. Move left move right get cover, get cover.” (bang bang bang) Shots fired, shots fired,” officers said.

Joshua Boyd was killed that night. Slow motion video shows the gun in his hand before he was shot.

Forensic evidence showed later that a bullet was lodged in the barrel of Boyd’s gun. His pistol would never have fired even if he had pulled the trigger.

The grand jury watched three different police-worn body camera videos and heard testimony from 14 different witnesses.

Boyd’s blood alcohol was over the legal limit, and also showed signs of cocaine and marijuana.

That testimony revealed that Boyd told his friends earlier that he could not do life in prison. His friends testified that he told the officers standing nearby “shoot me, shoot me”.

The jurors agreed that even though Boyd’s gun was jammed, the officers could not have known that. They said the officers feared for their lives and had to protect themselves.

Ultimately, the grand jury found they were justified in the shooting.