STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. — The NYPD released body camera footage Thursday depicting a 2018 incident in Fort Wadsworth in which responding police officers shot and killed a 50-year-old man who authorities said was wielding a large knife following a dispute with his wife.

The NYPD video shows the perspectives of Police Officer Amir Pali and Police Officer Salvatore Balistreri as they arrived at the Bridge Court basement apartment at around 10:43 p.m. on Dec. 9, 2018. It displays a tense standoff between the officers and Faustino Dioso, 50.

However, the video does not capture the moment Dioso grabbed the 14-inch blade the department showed in a still image within Thursday’s release, as Pali’s camera becomes obscured during the chaos.

20 1 / 20 Cop shot in Fort Wadsworth

Both officers discharged six shots from their service weapons during the incident, the department said. A single friendly-fire bullet struck Pali in his right side and he later recovered.

Dioso, who authorities said had a blood-alcohol level twice the legal limit, was shot and killed.

The released bodycam footage is preceded by the 911 call that prompted the officers to go to the location.

The person who made the call reported that a man was “banging, kicking, yelling, and arguing with his wife,” adding, “he’s doing a lot of banging and it scares the people that are resting in the house.”

After interviewing the 911 caller, Pali and Balistreri went to the side of the Bridge Court home and had a short interaction with a woman at the door. Pali could be seen standing at the entrance to the doorway as Balistreri stood a few steps above him on the descent down to the basement apartment in a narrow passageway.

A 30-second buffer on the audio of NYPD body-worn cameras when they are turned on makes that initial conversation not audible.

Interacting with the woman at the door, Pali can be seen holding a flashlight in one hand while Dioso is visible in the background. Dioso can then be seen reaching out of the door toward Pali, which prompts a scramble that pushes into the home.

The NYPD released body camera footage Thursday depicting a 2018 incident in Fort Wadsworth in which responding police officers shot and killed a 50-year-old man who authorities said was wielding a large knife following a dispute with his wife. (NYPD body-cam footage)

Balistreri moves down the steps and briefly looks inside the home before saying, “what’s he grabbing for?”

Through Pali’s body-cam, the 50-year-old is then seen rummaging through a pile of items inside of a closet while the woman tries to restrain him.

“Don’t reach for that knife,” said Pali during the interaction.

“Shoot me,” Dioso repeatedly replies to Pali, while continuing to reach within the closet.

“Amir, I would f****** blast him,” Balistreri tells Pali. “If there’s a knife, tase him,” he later says.

Pali, with his taser drawn, tells the woman to move from Dioso’s side, but she remains with her arms wrapped around him for much of the engagement. Pali then steps forward, appearing to move her away from Dioso as he deploys his taser, which can be heard being activated during the video.

Only one of the stun gun’s prongs entered Dioso’s skin, the Advance/SILive.com previously reported, and the department said Pali’s “conducted electrical weapon” was “ineffective” against Dioso.

Police said Dioso then charged at Pali with the knife, striking him and causing a laceration to his left hand, though that engagement is not clearly visible on camera.

Multiple shots in quick succession are then fired from both officers’ Glock 17 pistols, lasting approximately 15 seconds.

“He had a knife,” a wounded Pali can be heard saying as Balistreri calls for an ambulance.

Following the shooting, the NYPD said Balistreri performed CPR to Dioso until the ambulance arrived. Dioso was pronounced dead at Richmond University Medical Center in West Brighton.

District Attorney Michael E. McMahon in February of 2020 released a report that cleared the officers of any wrongdoing in the incident.

“While I sympathize with the family of Mr. Dioso, our internal investigation concluded that police officers were justified in their use of force during this tragic incident,” McMahon said.

In a statement released with the body-cam footage, the NYPD said, “The NYPD recognizes the loss of life, under any circumstances, is a tragic occurrence. The NYPD’s mission is to keep people safe and protect life, and seeks to make such occurrences as rare as possible through training, comprehensive policies and oversight.