Jesse Garza

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

Two Milwaukee police officers have been cleared in the fatal shooting in October of a gunman firing shots on the city's northwest side.

Officers Bradley Baker and Edgar Rodriguez were justified in using deadly force against Alonzo L. Smith after Smith opened fire on them Oct. 10 outside an apartment complex near North 101st Street and West Mill Road, according to Chief Deputy Milwaukee County District Attorney Kent Lovern.

According to an investigation into the shooting by the Milwaukee County Investigative Team:

Baker and Rodriguez had responded to a report of shots fired at the complex.

Witnesses told the officers they heard gunfire and glass breaking before seeing Smith holding a gun in each hand. He was also pointing a gun at one person and had shot at another.

Smith, 31, was in a vehicle when the officers approached him and ordered him to show his hands and surrender.

Smith then began shooting at the officers, who returned fire, and he continued to shoot at Baker and Rodriguez after getting out of the vehicle until he was fatally wounded.

Smith died Oct. 17, according to the Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office.

The investigation into the shooting was led by the Wauwatosa Police Department.

On Friday, the department released its investigative reports into Smith's shooting, along with reports on the fatal officer-involved shooting March 16, 2017, of Jermaine D. Claybrooks, 32, and the Sept. 3, 2017, fatal shooting of Antwon M. Springer.

The outcomes of those investigations, which determined both shootings were also justified, were reported earlier.

Several years ago, Smith was shot by Chicago police, according to a story in the Chicago Sun-Times that described him as schizophrenic.

In that incident, Smith, who had stopped taking his medication, ran from police when they attempted to question him for public drinking and told them he had a weapon, according to the story.

He was shot after exiting his aunt's house and was found with a knife, box-cutter and letter-opener, according to the newspaper.

Smith was awarded a $180,000 settlement as a result of the shooting, the Sun Times reported.