A woman who fired a gunshot while being searched by authorities near Macon on Tuesday was shot and killed, authorities said.

Kaley Dee Gay, 25, of Lizella, died at Navicent Health Center in Macon after being shot in the neck and chest during an altercation with the U.S. Marshals Service Southeast Regional Fugitive Task Force, the GBI said in a news release.

The task force members were executing an arrest warrant for Robert Baxton Williams, 34, for probation violation at his residence in the 5000 block of Fulton Mill Road. They spotted Gay and Williams outside the home when they arrived, the release said.

They both ran into the home, and Williams was quickly arrested without incident, the release said. The Macon Telegraph reported his warrant was for a child molestation conviction.

Gay went further within the home, and when confronted, deputies recognized her as someone with active arrest warrants and began to search her before arresting her, the release said.

She had warrants for failing to appear on methamphetamine charges out of Peach County, credit card fraud charges in Bibb County and violation of probation on a meth conviction in Jones County, the newspaper reported.

As Gay was being searched, she concealed her hand in her pocket and pulled out a small semi-automatic pistol, firing one round and attempting to chamber another round, the release said.

The deputy who was searching Gay returned fire and hit her twice, the release said. No one else was injured in the incident.

The Bibb County Sheriff’s Office placed one of its deputies on paid administrative leave pending the investigation’s outcome, which is standard protocol, the Telegraph reported.

Since Sunday, the GBI has been called to investigate four officer-involved shootings. Those incidents include shootings in Chatham County, Turner County and Gordon County.

The incident in Bibb County was the 87th officer-involved shooting the GBI has been called to investigate this year.

RELATED: Georgia on pace to double deadly officer-involved shootings in 2018

OVER THE LINE: An investigation into police shootings in Georgia

In other news: