Update:

JONESBORO, Ark. – Police have identified the suspect in the officer-involved shooting as Brenda Thomas, 56, of Jonesboro. Authorities say she did not survive her injuries in the officer-involved shooting.

On Dec. 11, the Jonesboro Police Department received a call reporting that a person was shot at 607 Gladiolus, E building. Officers responded and found the 41-year-old victim shot multiple times. Officers, who were on scene within minutes began to attempt to talk to Thomas and attempted to negotiate for several hours.

The victim, a maintenance employee of the apartment complex, was responding to the apartment to check the wellbeing of Thomas, as she had not been heard from in some time. While attempting to enter the apartment, Thomas fired several times, striking the victim. He was later airlifted from the scene to the Memphis trauma center.

Officers of the police department’s crisis negotiations team took over negotiations, but got no response after hours of attempts at negotiation. With fear for the safety of other tenants and no response or surrender from the suspect, a decision was made to introduce chemical munitions in another attempt to get Thomas to surrender. Thomas took measures to counter act the chemical munitions and stayed in the apartment with no response to renewed negotiation efforts.

With no response, K9 officer Gabo was deployed in an attempt to get Thomas out of the apartment, but she immediately began shooting at Gabo. Officers then had to enter the apartment and Thomas began firing on the officers, at which point the officers had to use lethal force. Tactical medics and ambulance crews on scene immediately rendered aid and Thomas was transported to a local hospital where she was later pronounced dead. The body will be sent to the Arkansas State Medical Examiner’s Office.

The scene and investigation were turned over to the Arkansas State Police who will conduct an investigation.

Original story:

JONESBORO, Ark. – A K9 officer is recovering after being shot by a woman who barricaded herself in a home after allegedly shooting a man.

Around 3 p.m. Jonesboro Police were called to the 600 block of Gladiolus Drive in regards to a shooting.

They found a 41-year-old male victim with injuries, who was removed from the scene to receive medical care.

Officers learned that the shooting suspect, a 56-year-old woman, inside the home and refused to surrender to police custody.

On Tuesday, December 11, 2018 Officers with the Jonesboro Police Department received a call at approximately 3 p.m. regarding a subject that had been shot multiple times.

According to a news release, the Jonesboro Police Department Crisis Negotiation Team, S.W.A.T. Members and corresponding Team Medics where activated.

Authorities say numerous attempts were made to negotiate with the female with hopes of her surrendering to police custody. After several hours of negotiating with the suspect, the decision was made to deploy K9 Officer Gabo into the home to facilitate the arrest of the suspect.

Once in the home, the suspect fired at and struck K9 Officer Gabo and then fired upon officers that followed Gabo.

The suspect was struck by gunfire that was returned by the entering officers and medical care was then provided after the scene was secure and the suspect no longer a threat.

K9 Officer Gabo is in good spirits and is being treated by a local veterinarian for the gunshot wound that he received and is in stable condition, police say.

No other officer was injured. The medical condition of the shooting victim is not known at this time. He was transferred to a hospital in Memphis, TN.

Investigators with Arkansas State Police are on scene and will lead the investigation at the request of The Jonesboro Police Department.