Hart's wife called police just before 9 a.m. on Monday requesting help for her husband, who was attempting suicide, according to a Redwood City Police Department press release.

"We understand that it may be especially difficult for our students to emotionally process the death of a member of our school community," Greene Principal Valerie Royaltey-Quandt wrote in the email to parents. "The grieving process is a normal result of loss. Young people of all ages may exhibit various grief reactions and these reactions can vary from day to day."

Hart, 33, had taught English and social studies at Greene for three years and was at JLS Middle School for four years before that, according to Austin.

The San Mateo County Coroner's Office identified Hart on Monday evening. Shortly after, the school district notified Greene Middle School parents in an email offering counseling support and resources for students. Staff had been notified earlier Monday, according to Superintendent Don Austin. A statement will be read to students on Tuesday morning, urging them to reach out to school counselors if needed.

Kyle Hart, a teacher at Frank S. Greene Middle School in Palo Alto, died Monday after he was shot by a police officer called to his Redwood City home in response to his attempted suicide.

This officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, as is standard protocol, according to the police department.

The other officer, described as a 20-year veteran of the police force, used a firearm to stop Hart, the release states.

Preliminary information suggests that one of the officers used a Taser stun gun "in an attempt to immobilize" Hart but was unsuccessful, police said.

Several officers responded and found Hart in the side yard of their home, holding a butcher knife, according to police. The first two officers on the scene tried to get him to drop the knife, police said. Hart reportedly refused to do so and started running at the officers, who are both trained in crisis intervention techniques.

"The Palo Alto community has rallied to provide a phenomenal amount of support to the Hart family," organizer Jen Koepnick wrote in an update Tuesday evening. "The heartfelt contributions in both money and effort to rally this campaign from over 250 people who know Kyle and his family have been invaluable to supporting the family during this difficult time."

A Palo Alto Unified teacher started a GoFundMe campaign on Tuesday to raise funds for Hart's wife and two young children. Within hours, the campaign surpassed its initial $25,000 goal, which was then increased to $100,000. By Wednesday, the GoFundMe had raised more than $130,000 toward a new goal of $150,000.

Counseling and mental health support staff will be available to meet with Greene students individually or in groups in the coming days and weeks. Royaltey-Quandt urged parents to contact the school if they feel their child needs additional support.

The San Mateo County District Attorney's Office is conducting an investigation into the shooting and has requested that anyone with information about the incident call 650-363-4636.

Any person who is feeling depressed, troubled or suicidal can call 1-800-784-2433 to speak with a crisis counselor. People in Santa Clara County can call 1-855-278-4204. Spanish speakers can call 1-888-628-9454.

Palo Alto teacher dies after officer-involved shooting

District urges students, parents to reach out to counselors for support