Dan Scanlan

dscanlan@jacksonville.com

EDITOR'S NOTE: Because of a reporter's error, the initial version of this story swapped the names of Officer Jimenez and Connell in the paragraph that said the suspect died at the scene. The story has been updated.

One man earlier had told his girlfriend and family he'd never go back to prison, then Wednesday fired his .38-caliber revolver at a police officer outside a Northside motel before being gunned down. Eleven hours later another man with a realistic-looking BB gun was killed by a second officer in a Mandarin apartment complex after a woman said he robbed her but returned the money, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office.

About 10:15 a.m. Jason Emerson Connell, a 43-year-old Georgia felon wanted for carjacking, became Wednesday's first suspect killed. Officer C.K. Jimenez, with 12 years on the force, fired 15 times at him outside the Motel 6 at Dunn Avenue and Interstate 95, the Sheriff's Office said.

About 9:30 p.m. Dylan Parker Thomas, 18, with two arrests as a juvenile and mental health issues, was the second to die after Officer H.A. Berry, a 10-year veteran, shot him in the chest at an apartment complex in the 11000 block of Old St. Augustine Road, the Sheriff's Office said.

In between, shots were traded about 6:40 p.m. between an FBI agent and a man during a multi-agency investigation in the Grand Park area just north of Kings Road, according to the Sheriff's Office. No one was injured but a 19-year-old was arrested.

Assistant Chief Scott Dingee said Wednesday was "a very unusual day, absolutely."

"I have been a police officer for 22 years and never seen three incidents in one day," he said. "It just goes to show how dangerous police work can be on a daily basis. What seems to be recovering a stolen vehicle turns into a fatal shooting very quickly."

The first occurred as Jimenez, a field training officer, was checking out the Motel 6 parking lot with rookie Joseph Stillwell, Dingee said. They spotted a parked Chevrolet with an open trunk and learned it had been carjacked Dec. 7 from Bibb County, Ga.

A 26-year-old woman walked out and told them the car belonged to her boyfriend, later identified as Connell, who was inside the motel. As Stillwell detained her for questioning, Connell walked out carrying a large black purse with a hand stuck inside, Dingee said. A witness and Stillwell both told investigators they heard Jimenez tell Connell to stop and "drop the bag."

"As the suspect got to within approximately 5 feet of Officer Jimenez, he dropped the bag, produced a revolver and fired one time," Dingee said. "Officer Jimenez returned fire ... striking the suspect multiple times."

Connell died at the scene. A loaded .38-caliber handgun was found, one expended round inside, the Sheriff's Office said.

Connell was from the Macon area and had an extensive arrest history there, as well as a 2006 conviction for robbery in Pasco County in Florida. He had recently been released from a Georgia prison and was being sought on parole violations as well as carjacking and aggravated battery charges relating to the Dec. 7 Chevrolet theft, Dingee said. The woman was not charged since she wasn't suspected of taking part in the crimes.

Dingee said Connell previously told his girlfriend and family that if he was confronted by police, he would kill the officer and others who were around.

"We believe that if Officer Jimenez had not been alert and seen the suspect approaching, the suspect would have shot one or both officers, leading to a much different outcome," Dingee said.

Witnesses reported that one of the officers kicked Connell when he was on the ground. Dingee said officers are trained to get a gun away from a downed suspect "by any method necessary" and also check whether they are incapacitated. He also said Connell had seen the officers from inside, and sent the woman out to talk with them.

The second fatal officer-involved shooting began with a 9 p.m. armed robbery when a woman working for Bite Squad was returning to her vehicle after delivering food to an apartment at Losco and Old St. Augustine roads, Dingee said. She was confronted by a man with a long-barrel handgun who demanded cash, then handed it back saying he was "not in it for the money" before fleeing. The woman drove to a nearby Walmart market and gave an off-duty officer a description of the robber. An alert was sent to other officers in the area.

Berry spotted the suspect a half hour later walking in the St. Augustine at the Lake apartment complex at 11001 Old St. Augustine Road and tried to stop him. Thomas turned, raising a handgun in the direction of the officer, Dingee said. Berry fired twice as Thomas fled, not knowing whether he had hit the man.

Berry radioed for backup, then neighbors in the complex called 911 a few minutes later to report a man lying in a breezeway with a gun, Dingee said. Officers found he had a gunshot wound to the chest and gave him medical aid with a nurse who lived in the complex, but he was confirmed dead when rescue staff arrived.

"Near the suspect's body, officers found a very realistic-looking replica of a revolver," Dingee said. "Closer inspection revealed the weapon to actually be a .177-caliber BB gun."

Thomas did not live in the complex, residing with his grandmother who had last seen him about 8 p.m., Dingee said. He had a juvenile arrest history but not violent.

None of the officers involved in the fatal shootings was wearing a body camera, Dingee said. It was the first officer-involved shooting for Jimenez and Berry, Dingee said.

Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549