New Mexico law enforcement have finally shared bodycam footage in the shooting dead of a teenage armed robbery suspect killed in one of three incidents where cops opened fire first, in the space of just six weeks.

The Albuquerque Police Department on Friday released video of the incident from December 12 in hope of answering questions from the public about what really happened.

Like the two other incidents from the same department, Officer Doug Moore claimed that he shot at Gabriel Romero, 19, because he pointed a gun at him.

Albuquerque police officer Doug Moore (right) shot and killed robbery suspect Gabriel Romero, 19, (left) on December 12

Cops captured the teen in the backyard of a house on Kiowa NE in New Mexico

The video does not show the moment Romero was shot as the camera is facing another cop at the time who appears to run in the opposite direction when multiple shots are fired.

But audio reveals how Moore shot and yelled at the man simultaneously then after unleashing multiple bullets, ordered the teen to put his hands up.

Law enforcement can he heard repeatedly ordering the man to adhere to their demands but the clip does not show whether a wounded Romero was able to do this.

'Put your hands up! Put your hands where I can see them,' the cops shout before calling more armed law enforcement to come around to the side of the building.

An officer yells: 'Shots fired!'

Moore has claimed Romero was hiding behind a wheelbarrow when he spotted movement and the suspect pointed a weapon at him.

'Do not reach for the gun!' officers order the man over and over again. The body camera stays pointed out of view of the action for a while and when it pans back other officers are seen working on the man on the ground to count holes and seal at least three in his chest.

Cops looked behind a home next to where a suspect was said to have shot a dog

Moore fired when he saw movement behind a wheelbarrow in the backyard of the home

Moore responds 'I did' when an officer asks who shot.

A colleague tells Moore to come with him as another asks: 'Is everybody okay? Check yourselves.'

The colleague asks Moore if is he is alright and another can be hear advising: 'I just want you to think about who your buddy is.'

But Moore – who has worked with the department since 2003 - doesn't seem to respond well in the aftermath of the shooting and he either falls or his body camera slips as he drops items.

He tells those helping him gather the items in the back yard to leave him alone.

'Please get off me,' he repeats as one man apologizes and another responds to 'let him go'.

He later walks off the property and go to his car where he's told he's allowed to sit and he switches off his bodycam.

Moore has not been involved in any other shooting cases.

At 4.20pm a woman reported she was robbed at gunpoint by a curly-haired man in a red sweatshirt on the Hahn Arroyo. The video clip appears to show a red clothing item next to Romero's body.

A man reported minutes later than two people told him someone tried to rob them in the same area.

Video footage does not show exactly what occurred but Moore's words and the gunshots can be heard

Law enforcement believed the man was running east and climbing fences when they showed up at a home next door to where they heard children screaming after their dog Bartleby was shot, Albuquerque Journal reports.

Police said they heard four gunshots in the shooting of the animal which led them closer to Romero.

Moore was placed on paid administrative leave but it's not clear whether he has returned to duty yet.

They later determined the gun he was found with was stolen from a vehicle.

Romero was charged with misdemeanor battery on a household member in 2017 but the charges were dropped.

'Our officers face some very dangerous situations here,' Police Chief Michael Geier said in a briefing Friday. 'These police officers put their lives on the line for the public, and I think that's what APD is about.'