SUMTER COUNTY, Fla. — The Citrus County Sheriff’s Office is releasing more information about the shootings that unfolded last week in Citrus and Sumter counties.

911 calls released in Citrus-Sumter shootings and chase

New boyfriend Michael Quirello shot and killed in hotel parking lot.

Murder suspect identified as Salvatore Tirone, 70

Some of the 911 calls from last week's Citrus-Sumter counties fatal shootings and highway chase were released.

A fleeing murder suspect was shot and died in the median of Interstate 75 in Sumter County after a law enforcement pursuit that began in Citrus County on Thursday morning.

Deputies described 70-year-old Salvatore Tirone of Broward County as a "jealous ex-husband" who drove to Citrus County with the intent on killing his ex-wife's new partner.

One caller described the scene this way: "The guy is out there still laying, like, he's probably dead. Like, the dude shot him like not even 3 inches away. Shot the ---- out of him. I mean stood there and shot him 5, 6 times."

When deputies arrived at the Quality Inn on Norvell Bryant Highway in the community of Hernando, they found 64-year-old Michael Quirello dead.

As multiple people at the hotel called 911, a bystander pulled his own gun and tried to stop a fleeing Tirone. Shane Arline, 58, of Inverness chased after Tirone in an attempt to stop the fleeing murder suspect.

When deputies arrived at the Quality Inn on Norvell Bryant Highway in the community of Hernando, they found 64-year-old Michael Quirello dead.

Tirone then began running back towards his black Mercedes SUV, parked just behind the Quality Inn.

As Tirone was entering his vehicle to flee, he turned toward Arline with his gun still in his hand. Arline then shot at Tirone.

Tirone exited the vehicle and then returned fire before speeding off.

After a chase on I-75 into Sumter, deputies stopped Tirone along the interstate.

Investigators said Tirone jumped out of his SUV and opened fire before being shot dead by six deputies that returned fire.

Tirone had no previous criminal record in Florida, but it is not known if Tirone was stalking his ex-wife prior to the shooting of her new lover.