PLANT CITY — The search is on for a 30-year-old fugitive linked to the death of a pedestrian who was struck and killed by a car that led officers on a high-speed chase Friday, according to Plant City police.

Armando Lopez, 43, was walking to work along the south shoulder of Sammonds Road when he was hit by the fleeing driver, police said. He died of his injuries at the scene, just feet away from his job at Commercial Concrete Products at 2705 Sammonds Road.

The driver facing a charge of vehicular homicide is Daniel Castro, 26. Police said he helped a wanted man, Emmanuel Sandoval, escape capture.

Sgt. Alfred Van Duyne said the incident started at about 6:50 a.m., when a Plant City officer arrived at the Plantation at Walden Lake Apartment complex at 1400 Plantation Blvd. looking for Sandoval. He is wanted on outstanding felony warrants for grand theft, driving with a suspended license and resisting an officer without violence.

The officer spotted Sandoval in the complex's parking lot, where he was talking with two people sitting in a blue Ford Fusion: Castro and passenger Sierra Vickery, 25. When the officer identified himself and walked towards them, police said, Sandoval hopped into the Ford Fusion and the three sped off.

The officer ran back to his cruiser and grabbed a set of spiked tire deflation devices, police said. He managed to lay the strips on the road leading out of the complex before the vehicle reached the exit, but they weren't enough to stop the speeding car.

More police cruisers swarmed the area as Castro drove east of the apartments down Airport Road, police said. Some officers said they spotted it speeding through a nearby neighborhood.

After traveling several blocks east of the apartments to the area near S. Alexander Street, police said Castro turned the Ford around and headed back west on Sammonds Road.

Police tried to pull the car over but abandoned the attempt "due to the reckless manner in which Castro was operating the vehicle," Van Duyne said.

Officers decided to end the pursuit because of the time of day and the amount of traffic on the road, the sergeant said. The Ford, though, continued to speed down Sammonds Road and failed to stop at the Woodrow Wilson Street intersection, police said, before blowing through a sharp right-hand turn.

Castro lost control of the speeding vehicle through the curve, police said, and struck Lopez just before he walked into work.

"He was literally about to walk into the gate," Van Duyne said.

The Ford came to a rest about 1,400 feet away. Castro, Sandoval and Vickery all ran away. But only Sandoval got away. The Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office joined the manhunt, deploying deputies, police dogs and a helicopter to help the effort.

Want breaking news in your inbox? Subscribe to our free News Alerts newsletter You’ll receive real-time updates on major issues and events in Tampa Bay and beyond as they happen. Loading... You’re all signed up! Want more of our free, weekly newsletters in your inbox? Let’s get started. Explore all your options

Castro faces charges of vehicular homicide, aggravated fleeing to elude with serious bodily injury, aggravated assault on a law enforcement officer with a deadly weapon, leaving the scene of a crash involving death, driving without a valid drivers license and two counts of violating his probation.

Vickery was arrested on an three outstanding warrants for probation violations unrelated to Friday's crash.

Once found, Sandoval will face several new felony charges in addition to his outstanding warrants, Van Duyne said. Anyone with information about Sandoval's whereabouts is asked to call the Plant City Police Department at (813) 751-9200.

Times staff writer Tony Marrero contributed to this report. Contact Anastasia Dawson at adawson@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3377. Follow @adawsonwrites.