A Hickory Hills woman remained missing Wednesday, a day after her husband of one month, a convicted killer who had spent most of his adult life behind bars, attempted suicide, got into a car chase with police and stabbed himself to death.

Martha A. McLees, 44, of the 9100 block of South Roberts Road was last seen by family members May 11. Her parents reported her missing a week later, police said.

Advertisement

Early Tuesday, her husband, Thomas Yohe, 42, stabbed himself in the chest while seated in McLees' car after apparently trying to asphyxiate himself with the car's exhaust gases.

Police were seeking clues to McLees' whereabouts in the scant evidence that Yohe left behind about his travels during the last several days. So far, there are no promising leads, according to Lt. Michael Tardi of the Hickory Hills police.

Advertisement

When police found Yohe, he had McLees' driver's license and credit cards, Tardi said, and a check of transactions indicates the cards had been used in the Chicago area in the last few days. Police were trying to obtain video surveillance tapes and other evidence from those businesses to determine who used the cards, Tardi said.

Other evidence from credit cards indicates Yohe recently had visited the Carbondale area, Tardi said.

An autopsy Wednesday found that Yohe died of multiple self-inflicted stab wounds, a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner's office said.

Yohe was released from prison last June after serving 17 years of a 30-year sentence for murder, according to state Department of Corrections records. Hickory Hills police said Yohe had been convicted of murdering a girlfriend in the northwest suburbs, but details of the case were not available.

State prison records also say Yohe was sentenced to terms of 1 year and 2 years, respectively, for two charges in 1996 in Fulton County and 1992 in Montgomery County of bringing a controlled substance or contraband into a penal institution. Yohe also served time on charges of unlawful restraint in 1992 in Saline County, and charges of damage to property, burglary and attempted burglary in 1980 in Cook County, state prison records show.

Hickory Hills police had responded to reports of disturbances at the home of McLees and Yohe on Roberts Road since they were married last month, but no arrests were made, Tardi said.

McLees had dinner with family members May 11, he said, and on May 13 called her teenage children from a previous marriage.

"She called her kids to advise them that she couldn't make it to a previously planned get-together, but she didn't give a reason," Tardi said.

Advertisement

"She was reported missing by her parents on Sunday the 18th, and they requested we go to her residence and check on her well-being," Tardi said.

Nobody was there, he said. But on Tuesday shortly after midnight, Bedford Park police stopped McLees' car, a 1997 Mitsubishi Galant, for a traffic violation. A computer check of the license number indicated police were seeking the car's owner, but the driver fled, Tardi said.

"So our guys went to the condominium, and they saw the car there at about 3 a.m. Officers approached the car and saw a male inside who appeared semi-coherent, but he put the car in gear and drove away," Tardi said.

It came to a stop nearby in Palos Hills, and officers found Yohe in the driver's seat, Tardi said. Police found a knife and a length of tubing arranged in a manner indicating Yohe had tried to connect it to the exhaust pipe to direct the fumes inside the car.