DAYTON — ﻿

A Dayton man was killed and a second person was injured after a police chase ended in a deadly crash early Monday morning.

Leonard Guy Jr., 30, of Dayton, died from multiple blunt force injuries, according to the Montgomery County Coroner’s Office.

Guy and the other victim were both ejected from the vehicle.

» TRENDING: Pike County murder suspect booked in the Butler County Jail

Moraine police initiated a traffic stop near Dryden Road around midnight, but the driver took off, according to police.

About a minute later, the car crashed at West Stewart and Broadway streets, ejecting Guy and another person.

It is not clear who was driving the vehicle.

We are working to learn the condition of the second person ejected from the vehicle.

“It makes me feel sad, but I really believe they need to be getting off the street,” said Sheila Baker of Moraine. “They’re choosing to break the law. The police have to do what they have to do.”

» TRENDING: Springfield residents shocked after man is trapped inside truck for hours after crash

Police did not say what initiated the traffic stop, but they did say that the driver ran at least one red light during the chase.

The deadly crash has some residents wondering if police should pursue drivers at high speeds.

Moraine police said they won’t pursue a driver if there’s heavy traffic. In this case, police said there were few people on the road because it was after midnight.

Some people who live nearby said they’d like to see less chases.

“I think each situation is different,” said Lisa Jackson of Moraine. “If it is a minor thing I don’t think you should. I think there should be a time when they give up the pursuit.”

Moraine police officers have been involved in two other high-profile, high-speed chases this year.

In September, Sherron Davis, 18, and a 17-year-old were arrested on charges of avoiding arrest after allegedly stealing merchandise from the Walmart in Moraine. A bystander witnessed the incident and followed the suspect.

An officer saw the vehicle Davis was driving and began to follow because the car was stolen. Shots were fired from the fleeing vehicle toward officers, investigators said.

Police continued the pursuit to the area of Arbor and Carillon boulevards, where it ended with three people taken into custody.

Another incident in September involved a Moraine officer whose cruiser struck and killed local Realtor Mary Taulbee. The officer was chasing Alysaa Irwin-DeBraux, 18, who a short time later crashed a stolen vehicle that prompted the police pursuit.