The neighborhood where 15-year-old Kobe Santiago died is quiet.

The tree along the 2500 block of Brookwood Street in Harrisburg, where Santiago crashed a stolen car on Sunday, now has balloons, candles, and a stuffed bear mixed in with the shattered window glass, plastic, and pieces of vehicle lights.

Harrisburg police said Santiago and two other teenagers were in the car, which was stolen earlier that day.

Police said they saw the stolen car on South 20th and Kensington streets and tried to stop it. The vehicle fled, and police said that due to the car’s increasing speed, they ended the pursuit.

Police said Santiago did not stop but instead went even faster, which led to him losing control on Brookwood Street and crashing into the tree.

Santiago died after being transported to a local hospital. Two other teens suffered non-life threatening injuries and were transported to hospitals. Police have not provided an update on their conditions.

Holy Family Church is located a couple blocks down 25th Street, around the corner. A Girl Scouts building is located between where police saw the stolen vehicle and where it crashed. The rest is tightly packed residential, an area that was silent amid the rain and fog of a gloomy late November afternoon.

Around a dozen kids gathered around the memorial Monday afternoon. They called themselves Santiago’s “brothers.”

No, they never imagined something like this could happen.

They said the area wasn’t busy; there’s nothing worth coming for.

Their knowledge of what happened came from social media, and they were angry. They had questions about what transpired that led to Santiago’s death.

The Harrisburg School District released a statement on Monday, informing students and parents that one of their students had passed away suddenly.

“We extend our heartfelt condolences to the family at this difficult time,” the district said.

They will have grief counselors available to students and staff on Tuesday and throughout the week as needed, the district said.

But for “Santiago’s brothers" at the crash site, the idea of counseling didn’t come up. They simply wanted one thing: more details about the crash.