A Youngstown man now faces charges of aggravated vehicular homicide.

Example video title will go here for this video

AKRON, Ohio — An Akron woman is dead after the car she was driving was struck by a suspect fleeing police on the city's west end Monday evening.

Police say they attempted to pull over a Saturn Ion that ran a red light on Copley Ave. around 7 p.m. before figuring out the car was stolen. The suspect attempted to flee at speeds of up to 60 miles per hour and sparked a pursuit by officers. Even after a police supervisor canceled the pursuit, the driver continued on "recklessly."

The suspect eventually found himself heading eastbound on Slosson St. before he ran a stop sign at Packard Drive and struck a Hyundai Sonata. The Hyundai then rolled over and its driver, 53-year-old Stacey R. McGinnis of Akron, was ejected.

McGinnis was taken to Cleveland Clinic Akron General Hospital, where she died Tuesday morning from her injuries. The suspect, identified by authorities as 20-year-old Timothy S. Goforth of Youngstown, fled the scene of the crash on foot before being apprehended at Mercer Ave and Lawton St.

Goforth is currently in custody at the Summit County Jail. His faces multiple charges including aggravated vehicular homicide, hit-skip, and receiving stolen property.

"It's hard," said Krochae Cox, McGinnis' daughter-in-law. "She would give her last [effort] out to take care of everyone else and worry about herself later," she said.

Coincidentally, McGinnis spoke to WKYC in October 2017, while comforting the 5-year-old girls in the West Griffins Youth Football League cheerleading squad, where McGinnis was a coach. The squad lost a member, Kymera Cody, 5, who died in a house fire along with her sister, Jada Snowden, 12.

"We will keep Kymera in our hearts till the very end," said McGinnis to the girls last October.

"Understanding life and passing it down to the younger generation," said her brother, Brandon McGinnis. "That's what she was about. Like I said, she was for the cause."

Watching McGinnis comforting the girls in that 2017 story on wkyc.com, brings solace to the family.