When the 17-mile police pursuit ended last month in Franklin Township, one of the occupants of the minivan the cops were chasing resisted arrest when an officer tried to pull him out.

Danny Washington, a 27-year-old Florida man, and the officer continued the struggle outside the minivan, and the two collided with another officer, causing the second officer’s gun to go off and shoot Washington, Carbon County District Attorney Jean A. Engler said on Tuesday.

Washington died hours after the Dec. 18 shooting, and Engler ruled Tuesday that the shooting was an accident and the officer will not be charged.

The Lehigh County’s coroner office, which performed the autopsy, previously said Washington was shot in “the body.”

Engler said she will not release the name of the officer or the department the officer works for because the investigation did not lead to criminal charges. That’s in keeping with the guidelines and best practices recommended by the Pennsylvania District Attorneys Association, she said.

“He’s being treated the same as any citizen,” Engler said. “If there were an investigation on a citizen and criminal charges did not result, we would not be releasing that citizen’s name.”

Washington, of Fort Lauderdale, was one of five Florida men in the minivan that led police on the 17-mile chase that ended once police used spike strips to slow down the van and stop it on the northbound lanes of Route 209, past the intersection of Route 248.

The chase began at 5 p.m., when Beaver Meadows police Chief Mike Morresi was approached by a female motorist who alerted him about a white minivan that was driving erratically and had just passed her. Morresi found the van and activated his lights and sirens in an attempt to stop it.

The van continued for about a mile before stopping on Route 93. Morresi was getting out of his cruiser when the van sped off. During the chase, occupants of the van tossed items out, which were later retrieved and determined to be stolen bank checks.

The pursuit continued as the van weaved in and out of traffic, drove on the wrong side of the road and reached speeds of up to 90 mph along Route 209, Engler said.

The chase went through Packer and Mahoning townships and the boroughs of Nesquehoning, Jim Thorpe, Lehighton and Weissport with more than a half-dozen police agencies getting involved, Engler said.

Police deployed spike strips on the McCall Bridge in Lehighton, damaging the van’s tires. The van slowed, but continued driving into Franklin Township before stopping.

Armed police officers surrounded the van and ordered everyone out, Engler said, but Washington, who was in the middle passenger seat, failed to comply and was physically removed by one of the officers.

Washington struggled with the officer and the two collided with a second officer, whose gun discharged and hit Washington, Engler said.

Police and paramedics treated Washington, who was then flown to St. Luke’s University Hospital in Fountain Hill, where he was pronounced dead.

“It is unfortunate that Mr. Washington lost his life during this encounter, but it is also abundantly clear from both civilian and police eyewitnesses that Mr. Washington’s own conduct in failing to comply and physically struggling with the officers contributed to his being shot and killed,” Engler said.

Engler said the investigation, which was headed by the state police’s Major Case Team for Troop N, included interviews with dozens of witnesses, both civilians and police, and a review of physical and forensic evidence.

“Based on the careful review of the copious evidence gathered during the investigation, and applicable statutory and case law, my formal ruling is that the shooting was accidental,” Engler said. “Consequently, there is no basis to file charges against the officer whose weapon discharged and none will be filed.”

Cedric L. Cason, 39, of Lauderhill; Creshaun D. Caldwell, 23, of Fort Lauderdale; Tyrone L. Parker Jr., 19, of Fort Lauderdale; and Mitchell L. Knight, 27, of Sun City, all face 11 counts of receiving stolen property. They are being held in the Carbon County jail.

Knight, the alleged driver, is also charged with four counts of reckless endangerment and one count each of fleeing and eluding police, resisting arrest and possession of marijuana. He also faces six summary traffic violations.

All four are awaiting preliminary hearings.