A man charged Phoenix police and swung a metal object at them before an officer shot and killed him Wednesday night, officials said.

Officers arrived just before 9 p.m. to an area near 35th and Oak streets after receiving reports of someone throwing objects through the front window of a Circle K store, Phoenix Police Department Sgt. Armando Carbajal said Thursday.

Officers went to question a man seen in a nearby neighborhood. The man was uncooperative, Carbajal said; he began pulling tools out of his jacket and throwing them to the ground.

The officers tried detaining the man, but he raised an unknown metal object and swung it, Carbajal said.

One officer, a 38-year-old man with eight years of service avoided being struck, but a second officer, a 33-year-old woman with 11 years of service, was struck in the head and arm, Carbajal said.

MORE: Phoenix police get go-ahead for $149K study into police shootings

The unstruck officer drew his service weapon and ordered the man to stop. But the man raised the metal object above his head and charged the officer, Carbajal said.

The officer fired multiple rounds, striking the man, Carbajal said.

The officers provided emergency aid to the man until the Phoenix Fire Department arrived and took him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead, Carbajal said.

The officer struck by the man's metal object was also taken to the hospital; she was treated for minor injuries, Carbajal said.

The shooting marked the 43rd involving Phoenix police in 2018. The previous shooting occurred on Monday, when Phoenix police shot and killed a man who pointed a gun at passing traffic near 37th Avenue and Camelback Road.

Wednesday night's shooting also was the 78th involving law-enforcement in Maricopa County, according to an Arizona Republic database of police shootings. The total rose to 79 early Thursday morning, when a Chandler police officer serving on a U.S. Marshals Task Force shot a suspect at 22nd and Dunlap avenues in Phoenix.

The suspect suffered survivable injuries.

Reporter Angel Mendoza contributed to this report.

READ MORE: