LEXINGTON COUNTY, SC (WIS) - The Lexington County Sheriff’s Department has asked the State Law Enforcement Division to investigate a fatal officer-involved shooting from late Friday.

Sheriff Jay Koon said around 10:45 p.m. Friday, deputies responded to a report of a suicidal person, identified as Ronald Scott Jenkins, 55, of Lexington, at a Founders Road residence. Before deputies arrived, they were told by a caller that the man left the home and believed they heard a gunshot.

“Before deputies arrived in the area, a 911 caller said Jenkins had left a home in the 700 block of Founders Road and the caller reported hearing a single gunshot,” Lexington County Sheriff Jay Koon said. “K-9 units were deployed and, after a short track, they located the suspect.”

After being tracked by K-9 officers, deputies made contact with the suspect, who first shot at two Lexington County deputies and a K-9 officer. Deputies returned fire and struck the suspect. He was taken to the hospital and later died.

“The deputies and the K-9 were not injured,” Koon said. “We extend our condolences to the friends and family members of Mr. Jenkins.”

Neighbors tell WIS hearing shots fired is not uncommon for this neighborhood. They describe it as a rural area, where private shooting ranges are located.

Neighbors add hearing gunshots is not alarming, but seeing a large law enforcement presence is.

Kathy Blizzard, a neighbor said, “Usually it’s very quiet out this way, you have traffic that comes up and down the roads, it’s busy as far as traffic goes but that’s it. It’s usually pretty low key out here.”

As is standard procedure, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is leading the investigation into the incident, according to Koon.

#DEVELOPING: Lexington County Sheriff Jay Koon shares info on a shooting that happened Friday night involving deputies who returned fire after a suicidal subject fired shots toward them. #LESM #LCSDnews pic.twitter.com/Zd1uSEJg3A — Lexington Sheriff (@LCSD_News) December 22, 2018

If you or someone you know is dealing with depression or contemplating suicide, you don’t have to be alone - call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or visit their website by clicking here.

Check back for more updates.

Copyright 2018 WIS. All rights reserved.