This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

An attempted homicide suspect was fatally shot by sheriff’s deputies in Lake Elsinore on Thursday, officials said.

Investigators were tracking the man, believed to have been involved in a shooting that occurred in Lake Elsinore over the weekend. But when authorities approached the suspect, he got into a car and fled, according to Sgt. Chris Willison, a public information officer for the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department.

A pursuit ensued. Willison didn’t say how long the chase lasted, but he said it ultimately ended in a parking lot near the intersection of Collier Avenue and Chaney Street about 4 p.m.

Video from the scene showed the suspect’s vehicle had come to rest against a bollard post, with a police SUV pinned against its rear end. Willison said the suspect’s car had also collided with another civilian vehicle that was occupied, though no one in that car was injured.

The suspect then got out of his sedan, produced a handgun and approached the deputies. That’s when at least one deputy opened fire, Willison said.

Marcos Salcedo said he was working when he heard a large crash, then the sound of gunfire, and went to see what was happening. That’s when he spotted a male in a black sweater exchanging bullets with law enforcement.

“And then I just saw him take his last two shots and then he turned around and he started running,” Salcedo said. “And then I just heard the last couple shots, and next thing you know you just see the cops everywhere and they started helping out the other ladies that were on the floor crying and hysterical because they were so scared.”

Another bystander, Jay D’agnenica, said he saw a female dive beneath another car near the suspect’s to avoid being hit.

After the suspect was shot, authorities checked his car to make sure no one else was inside, then “everything got under control,” Salcedo said.

The man was struck at least once by gunfire and taken to a nearby hospital, where he later died, officials said.

The suspect appeared barely conscious as he lay on the ground while first responders rendered aid, according to Salcedo.

“He looked like he was moving, but he was struggling to stay conscious, because I’m guessing they shot him at least once or twice,” the witness said.

The man’s name was not being released, pending the notification of his next of kin.

No officers were injured, authorities said.

Footage from the scene showed what appeared to be a handgun lying in the parking lot next to a discarded Vans sneaker and other pieces of clothing.

The shooting the man was a suspect in occurred Saturday, and two victims were involved, according to the Sheriff’s Department.

Willison said there were no outstanding suspects.

https://twitter.com/RSOPIOWest/status/1075934159720263681

33.685473 -117.333403