Following a Saturday car crash that resulted in the death of a 13-year-old boy, Louisville police are investigating whether officers' pursuit of the vehicle violated a department policy intended to prevent such fatalities.

Ki’Anthony Tyus, of Louisville, was killed when a Lexus SUV crashed into a utility pole on Fern Valley Road following a police pursuit. Tyus was a passenger in the car, which had been reported stolen.

Three others in the car were also juveniles, according to the Louisville Metro Police Department. A fifth suspect, an 18-year-old, remains in critical condition at University of Louisville Hospital.

Christopher 2X, a community activist and family friend, confirmed Ki'Anthony's identity on Monday. Shot by a stray bullet as a 9-year-old, the boy had joined forces with 2X and other gunshot survivors to preach peace on the city's streets.

Ki'Anthony's grandmother and legal guardian, Ernestine Tyus, is "devastated" by her grandson's death, 2X told the Courier Journal.

"She worried that she would lose him to the streets," 2X said. "But she would have never thought that this is the kind of death he would have."

More:Juveniles involved in car chase that killed 1, injured 2 LMPD officers

The LMPD Public Integrity Unit will lead a probe into the fatal crash, department spokesman Dwight Mitchell said.

The department's pursuit policy, passed in 2012, is one of the strictest in the nation. The policy forbids officers from initiating a pursuit unless they have reason to believe a suspect has committed a violent felony or is wanted on a warrant for a violent crime.

Department policy requires an internal investigation into all deaths or serious injuries resulting from officer pursuits. Three of the car's occupants have been charged with receiving stolen property, according to LMPD. The department has not announced a charge for the fourth suspect.

Dispatch recordings show officers first identified the stolen car around 8:15 p.m. on Saturday in the Old Louisville neighborhood. Officers initially chose not to pursue the car and instead called for backup.

"We have still not initiated a stop," an officer in the 4th Division said on the dispatch recording. "We're going to try and get at least one more unit here before we initiate the stop on 65 South."

From there, the cruiser followed the Lexus onto Interstate 65. When two cruisers were in position, the officers attempted to pull the Lexus over. But the driver in the stolen car turned unexpectedly, causing both officers to crash their vehicles into a wall.

"Be advised ... ran one of our units off the road," an officer yelled.

One officer received a head and knee injury and another injured his arm, dispatchers said.

In a separate dispatch call, other officers can be heard arriving at the 3300 block of Fern Valley Road, where the Lexus had crashed. The car's impact against a utility pole caused a minor transformer explosion and power outages in the area, according to the dispatch recording.

Officers observed one of the suspects flee the car and begin running, while others crawled out. One was left inside, lifeless, the officers said.

"We have another gentleman who just got out of the car," one officer said. "We could use more officers. There's also another one trapped inside, but he's not moving inside the car."

You may like:An analysis of Matt Bevin's terrible, horrible, no good, very bad week

No one in Ki'Anthony's family knows why he was in the stolen car, 2X said. On most Saturdays, the teen asked for $10 so he could meet friends at the Manslick Rollerdome, he said.

Ki'Anthony's grandmother "feels sad for everybody involved," including the officers, 2X said.

"The most pressing thing on her heart right now is trying to get some concrete answers," he said. "Did he know what he was getting into when he entered the car? What did this actual pursuit entail? What was going through the driver's mind? What was going on in the officers' minds?"

Tyus, Ki'Anthony's guardian since he was a baby, knew that "negative forces hovered around him," 2X said.

They hovered so close, in fact, that as a 9-year-old, the boy was shot in the leg by a stray bullet while playing in a neighborhood park. After a grueling surgery, Ki'Anthony became the face of 2X's "Hood 2 Hood" anti-violence movement, sharing his story with Mayor Greg Fischer and Lt. Gov. Jenean Hampton.

Just next month, Ki’Anthony was scheduled to take part in a youth ambassador initiative with Kentucky Education Commissioner Wayne Lewis, 2X said.

Still, the teen was facing difficulty navigating a “treacherous environment” of social pressures, according to 2X.

“He struggled,” he said. “But he never struggled in a way that he wanted to be violent or in a way that he wanted to hurt people.”

The two had spoken just days before Ki’Anthony’s death. Last Tuesday, the boy called to ask about the welfare of 2X’s daughter and grandchildren, survivors of a Dec. 1 shooting which saw stray bullets tear through the walls of their Smoketown apartment.

After their conversation, 2X texted Ki’Anthony a picture of his grandchildren, safe in a hotel room, juxtaposed next to a photo of the shooting damage — glass shards from the front of an oven strewn across the kitchen floor.

“Put down the guns,” Ki’Anthony texted back. “I don’t see y they invented guns.”

JCPS Superintendent Marty Pollio:2019 will be 'a story of improvement'

Thomas Novelly: tnovelly@courierjournal.com, 502-582-4465, or @tomnovelly. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: courier-journal.com/tomn.

Mandy McLaren: 502-582-4525; mmclaren@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @mandy_mclaren. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/mandym.