UPDATE: Police Sergeant Cleared by Prosecutor

FROM CHICAGO TRIBUNE:

03/31/2017 — A Suburban police sergeant and village trustee will not face criminal charges in connection with a crash in Wisconsin that killed a woman.Though Lake Geneva police said in a news release that responding officers “observed evidence of intoxication on Mogan,” he refused to take a breath test or field sobriety test, according to authorities and court records.

A blood test obtained through a search warrant a little more than three hours after the crash found no evidence of drugs or alcohol, and authorities concluded that, though their investigation found that Mogan drank two 22-ounce beers with a meal before the crash, “it appears the defendant’s blood-alcohol content was well below” the legal limit, according to a March 16 letter from Zeke Wiedenfeld, Walworth County district attorney, to the Lake Geneva police chief. MORE

Driver’s license revoked for police officer in crash

from Walworth County Today

ELKHORN—An Illinois police sergeant had his driver’s license revoked for a year Wednesday after a Walworth County judge found probable cause he was intoxicated, drove and killed a Lake Geneva woman.

Mark Mogan, 49, of Hebron, Illinois, is a member of the Lake in the Hills Police

Department. Judge Phil Koss ruled Mogan’s refusal to submit to a chemical test for the presence of intoxicants after a Dec. 27 crash was “improper.”

Two Lake Geneva police officers testified Wednesday they smelled intoxicant’s on Mogan’s breath following the crash on Edwards Boulevard south of Highway 50 in Lake Geneva.

The officers testified pedestrian Samantha Norris, 29, was crossing the road when Mogan’s car struck her on a cold night. The officers said although it was dark, there were streetlights on the road and Mogan’s headlights were on at the time of the crash. MORE

From The Chicago Tribune:

01/05/2017 — A Lake in the Hills police officer who is running for village president of Hebron has been recommended for a charge of drunken driving in connection with a fatal accident in Lake Geneva, Wis., police said.

Police Officer Mark Mogan, 49, who is a Hebron village trustee, was taken into custody after last week’s crash, in which he struck a woman who later died, and then was referred to prosecutors for a charge of injury by intoxicated use of a vehicle, authorities said.

Mogan, a sergeant with 23 years on the Lake in the Hills police force, was placed on paid leave pending the department’s own investigation, Lake in the Hills officials said Wednesday.

Mogan is one of four candidates in the April election for Hebron village president. Among them is incumbent John Jacobson, who is facing felony drug and gun charges in McHenry County.

The Lake Geneva crash occurred about 5:20 p.m. Dec. 27, when Samantha Norris, 29, was crossing Wisconsin State Highway 120 just south of Highway 50, police said.

Mogan was driving south on Highway 120 when his car hit Norris, said Lt. Edward Gritzner of the Lake Geneva Police Department. She was flown to a Milwaukee-area hospital in critical condition and died two days later. MORE

Samantha L. Norris, 29, of Lake Geneva, WI, died Thursday, December 29, 2016, at Froedtert Hospital in Milwaukee. Samantha Lynn Norris was born in Park Ridge, IL on December 12, 1987, the daughter of the late Richard and Kathleen (Kilger) Norris. She graduated from Badger High School, in Lake Geneva, with the class of 2007. At the time of her death, she was working in food service at Grand Geneva Resort. Samantha was an avid reader; she also was a lover of all animals. She loved to walk and walked everywhere she went. Samantha is survived by aunts and uncles; Linda and Sam Cicero of Island Lake, IL, Jack and Karen Kilger of Novi, MI and Dale and Vicki Norris of Trevor, WI and many cousins and other family and friends. She was preceded in death by her parents. Services for Samantha will be held on Thursday, January 5, 2017, at 9:30 a.m. in the chapel of Derrick Funeral Home and Cremation Services in Lake Geneva; Father Jim Scheurman, of Saint Francis deSales Catholic Church, will officiate. Burial will follow in Ascension Cemetery in Libertyville, IL. Visitation will Wednesday, in the funeral home, from 5:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m. In lieu of other expressions of sympathy, memorials are requested in Samantha’s name to Lakeland Animal Welfare Shelter.

Like this: Like Loading...