A Buckeye man witnessed the "terrifying" shootout between his neighbor and police on Christmas, he said.

Robert Capps was inside his Buckeye home in the 24200 block of West Desert Bloom Street, near Yuma Road and 241st Avenue, when he heard what he initially thought was a firework around 5:30 p.m.

"I thought it was a firework so, not really thinking much of it when me and the wife went outside to look at it," Capps said.

Capps and his wife, who is 25 weeks pregnant, went out into their front yard, only to see a man come out and start shooting at police.

"I cover my wife, got her in the back (room)," Capps said. "I was afraid. I wasn't really thinking anything, I was just watching. (I) didn't know what to think at the time."

Buckeye resident Antonio A. Ramos, 34, was later identified as the man who exchanged fire with police, Buckeye Police Department spokeswoman Donna Rossi said.

Police received a 911 call Tuesday just after 5:30 p.m. about a fight between a woman and her boyfriend at a home near Yuma Road and 241st Avenue, Rossi said.

Officers learned that a gunshot had possibly been fired inside the home. They got Ramos' girlfriend, another woman and two children out of the home unharmed.

Officers reached Ramos by phone but lost contact with him and heard a gunshot fired inside the home, Rossi said.

Soon after, Ramos came out of the house and began firing at officers, prompting three officers to return fire, Rossi said.

"I saw a man come out of his house with an assault rifle and just start laying bullets into the house directly next to me," Capps said. "I was watching through my front window."

The SWAT team was called to the location and approached the home where Ramos was found dead, lying in the driveway, Rossi said.

"I watched the man get shot while exchanging bullets with the police," Capps said. "I honestly don't even know why I sat there and watched, but I did. It was terrifying."

Ramos was armed with at least four weapons, three semiautomatic handguns and one high-powered, semiautomatic rifle, Rossi said.

Police estimate he fired more than two dozen rounds at officers, many of the bullets striking the home across the street that was unoccupied, Rossi said.

Capps later live-streamed a video on Facebook, showing the scene. The video also showed a body under a white sheet laid out in the road.

A photo of the home across the street from the shootout showed the nearly two dozen bullet holes marking the front of the house.

No officers were injured during the incident and the three Buckeye police officers involved will be on mandatory administrative leave, Rossi said.

A comprehensive investigation into the shooting is underway, Rossi said.

It was the 80th time this year police have shot someone in Maricopa County, a record high, records compiled by The Arizona Republic show.

READ MORE: