COHASSET, Mass. — A man attacking his Tinder date outside a Cohasset home died as police intervened, a source told Boston 25 News.

The Norfolk District Attorney’s office says it is investigating the incident, in which a man they identify as Erich Stelzer died as he was being taken into custody by police Thursday.

A source told Boston 25 News Friday the 25-year-old man had met the woman, who family identified to Boston 25 News as 24-year-old Maegan Tapley, on a dating app called Tinder and stabbed her before police intervened.

JUST IN: Source confirms this is Erich Stelzer, 25-year-old Cohasset stabbing suspect who died in police custody l This is a fitness video he posted on YouTube last year #Boston25 pic.twitter.com/IdmDaPWMQT — Mike Saccone (@mikesacconetv) December 28, 2018

Cohasset Police responded to a call for a “disturbance” on Church Street around 10 p.m. and found a woman with injuries, who was then taken to a local hospital, according to the DA’s office.

The DA’s office said “in the process of taking the male party into custody, the male party passed away.”

“It’s something you never think is gonna happen in a quiet town like Cohasett," a neighbor named Ian said.

A source says the man was Tasered while being taken into custody, and said the 25-year-old Stelzer was on top of Tapley stabbing her when police arrived.

BREAKING: Our sources confirm a couple in their 20’s met on Tinder a week ago. Police found man stabbing woman at this house last night in Cohasset. Officer tased suspect, and he died while in police custody. Watch more @boston25 pic.twitter.com/z4RKioMxx2 — Litsa Pappas (@LitsaPappas) December 28, 2018

“They’re good at what they do so it’s an unfortunate situation that a person passed away," Cohasset native Joseph Siegel said.

The earlier statement said the incident is not an officer-involved shooting and a medical examiner will determine the cause of the man’s death.

Tapley survived and was taken to the hospital.

She is the youngest of four siblings, and her oldest sister told Boston 25 News that she worked as a veterinary assistant at an animal center in Saugus for three years.

"My sister has been through a horrific attack that would have killed her had the police not arrived," Tapley's sister said. "It’s going to be a long recovery due to extensive wounds, but she’s an amazing, strong, young woman and will get through this. Her family and friends are here for her and will be by her side throughout this recovery.”

A source close to the case said that Stelzer lived with his mother, and she told police she had been concerned about his mental health and was planning an intervention.

The DA’s office said it is actively investigating the incident and expects to release more information Friday.

Cohasset Police Chief William Quigley released a statement following the incident.

"I'm extremely proud of the job my officers did. They acted heroically and absolutely saved a life," said the Police Chief. "While it's sad there's a loss of life, they did great work."

>>MORE: Sisters of woman stabbed by man she met on Tinder speak out about incident

An autopsy will determine the cause of death, and those autopsy results are expected in the next couple of days.

Cox Media Group