Deputies identify man in fatal pursuit near 180th, Gertrude streets

Sarpy County deputies have released the name of the man who shot and killed himself after a pursuit Thursday afternoon.The driver was identified as Blake Cedar, 26, of Omaha.The pursuit ended near 180th and Gertrude streets.Deputies said Cedar had an active felony warrant in Nebraska issued Dec. 7, for a parole violation due to possession of a weapon. Autopsy results have confirmed the manner of death as a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. The weapon used was a Taurus 9mm semi-automatic handgun, which was stolen in Omaha.A man is dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound after a pursuit that ended near 180th and Gertrude streets Thursday afternoon.Officials said there were two additional women in the vehicle at the time.The pursuit began just before 3 p.m. when the Saunders County Sheriff’s Department began pursuing a suspect in connection with a theft in Wahoo. The suspect’s vehicle, a black Ford F-150, fled at speeds in excess of 80 miles per hour on Highway 92.As the vehicle entered the Omaha metro area, the truck continued at a high rate of speed and at times drove against oncoming traffic. Nebraska State Patrol assisted in the pursuit at 3:08 p.m. near 192nd and Harrison streets.Two minutes later, the vehicle entered a residential neighborhood and came to a stop with a flat rear tire near 181st and Gertrude streets.At this time, a trooper said he heard a single gunshot.Upon approaching the vehicle, the trooper found the driver with what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The driver of the truck was later pronounced dead at the scene.There were two women in the vehicle, neither of them were injured.Douglas County deputies, Omaha police and troopers with the Nebraska State Patrol are all involved in the investigation.The area is blocked off and drivers are asked to avoid the area.Stay with KETV with developments on this story.

Sarpy County deputies have released the name of the man who shot and killed himself after a pursuit Thursday afternoon.

The driver was identified as Blake Cedar, 26, of Omaha.

Advertisement

The pursuit ended near 180th and Gertrude streets.

Deputies said Cedar had an active felony warrant in Nebraska issued Dec. 7, for a parole violation due to possession of a weapon.

Autopsy results have confirmed the manner of death as a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.

The weapon used was a Taurus 9mm semi-automatic handgun, which was stolen in Omaha.

A man is dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound after a pursuit that ended near 180th and Gertrude streets Thursday afternoon.



Officials said there were two additional women in the vehicle at the time.

The pursuit began just before 3 p.m. when the Saunders County Sheriff’s Department began pursuing a suspect in connection with a theft in Wahoo.

The suspect’s vehicle, a black Ford F-150, fled at speeds in excess of 80 miles per hour on Highway 92.

As the vehicle entered the Omaha metro area, the truck continued at a high rate of speed and at times drove against oncoming traffic.

Nebraska State Patrol assisted in the pursuit at 3:08 p.m. near 192nd and Harrison streets.

Two minutes later, the vehicle entered a residential neighborhood and came to a stop with a flat rear tire near 181st and Gertrude streets.

At this time, a trooper said he heard a single gunshot.

Upon approaching the vehicle, the trooper found the driver with what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The driver of the truck was later pronounced dead at the scene.

There were two women in the vehicle, neither of them were injured.

Douglas County deputies, Omaha police and troopers with the Nebraska State Patrol are all involved in the investigation.



The area is blocked off and drivers are asked to avoid the area.



Stay with KETV with developments on this story.