by WCBC Radio

(FROSTBURG, Md.) - A barricade in an Allegany County home comes to an end after police made several attempts to communicate with the individual inside the residence.

The suspect is identified as Michael W. Davis, 39, of Cumberland, who since 11:00 a.m. this morning had barricaded himself inside a residence located in the 10400-block of Piney Mountain Road in Frostburg. Davis was pronounced deceased by EMS personnel on scene. An autopsy will be conducted by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

At approximately 11:00 a.m. today, troopers from the Cumberland Barrack responded to a 9-1-1 call, reporting a breaking and entering into the Piney Mountain Road home. The call was made by a family member who noticed an open door at the house.

When troopers arrived, they discovered the side door of the house was open. Troopers gave several verbal commands before entering the house and then heard a single gunshot. They subsequently backed out of the residence and immediately established a perimeter around the home, knowing the suspect was armed.

Troopers from the Cumberland and McHenry barracks responded to the scene and called for the Special Tactical Assault Team Element (STATE Team), along with negotiators from the Maryland State Police. Sheriff Deputies from the Allegany County Sheriff’s Office, and police from the Cumberland City Police Department, and the Maryland Natural Resources Police also responded to the scene.

Several attempts were made to establish communication with the suspect inside the home. Police made numerous efforts, including the use of flash bangs, to entice Davis to exit the house.

After consultation with the Allegany State’s Attorney’s Office, police obtained a search warrant for the house and entry was made at 4:15 p.m. by the STATE Team. Davis was found lying on the floor with an apparent gunshot wound. Police believe he was alone in the house at the time of the incident.

No injuries to civilians or law enforcement personnel have been reported. No shots were fired by law enforcement personnel.

The investigation continues…