A former Santa Barbara County sheriff’s deputy who until recently lived in Oxnard was fatally shot by officers after apparently stabbing and beating to death his mother, his sister and another resident of the Orcutt home he lived in.

David Gerald McNabb, 43, was shot Friday night at the home where he is believed to have killed his sister Nicole McNabb, 34; his mother, Melanie McNabb, 64; and Carlos Echavarria, 63. All four lived there, according to authorities.

Authorities were contacted at 8:05 p.m. on Friday by a resident of the home in the 5900 block of Oakhill Drive in south Orcutt, a community of about 65,000 people just south of Santa Maria.

She reported entering the home and finding a victim covered in blood in the bathtub. She fled in distress and contacted sheriff’s deputies.

Deputies arrived and determined the suspect was still inside. An alert was issued to neighbors advising them to stay in their homes, authorities said.

California crime coverage:

Deputies entered the residence, made contact with David McNabb and found he was armed with a rifle, according to deputies.

In an attempt to rescue the victims, additional deputies entered the residence and confronted the suspect. He was shot with less-lethal munitions, including a 40 mm impact weapon and a beanbag shotgun round, before deputies used deadly force, authorities said. He was then taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

A full search of the residence revealed the three victims, all of whom were pronounced dead at the scene.

They had been stabbed and beaten to death, authorities said.

Investigations into the homicides and the shooting of the suspect are ongoing.

McNabb worked as a custody deputy for the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office from July 2001 to March 2012, when he voluntarily resigned, authorities said. According to housing records, McNabb lived in Oxnard from January 2007 until the beginning of 2018.

In September 2012, McNabb was arrested by Oxnard police and booked into Ventura County jail on allegations of domestic violence. He was subsequently convicted of felony domestic violence and sentenced to jail in May 2014. He was later released from custody on probation in October 2016, according to court records.