The Boulder County Coroner’s Office has officially stated that a man who died in a December officer-involved shooting in Longmont was, in fact, shot.

Until Tuesday, investigators had only said that on Dec. 31 Master Police Officer Mike Kimbley fired a rifle shot at Jesus Ramos outside of the Glen Ridge apartment complex, 2211 Pratt St.

The coroner’s office in a Tuesday news release announced that Ramos, 34, died of a rifle wound to the torso and called the manner of death a homicide.

The shooting remains under investigation, and Boulder County District Attorney’s Office spokeswoman Shannon Carbone in an email said District Attorney Michael Dougherty make an announcement on the shooting within the next 10 days.

Ramos had told police he tried to kill himself with a revolver and had been using heroin and methamphetamine. In a 911 call, he told dispatchers he put away his gun and was going with his father to the hospital.

At about 4:30 a.m. Dec. 31 officers contacted Ramos and his father just south of Glen Ridge apartment complex. In the 911 call, Ramos becomes angry and says he still has the revolver. He tells the dispatcher he will “kill whoever I need to kill.”

Ramos refused to follow instructions from the officers and went toward an apartment with his hand wrapped in a jacket, at which time Kimbley fired the rifle. According to police, Ramos broke into an apartment and was later found dead inside.

Longmont Police Deputy Chief Jeff Satur said Kimbley remains on leave pending the outcome of the DA’s office investigation.

Ramos was the third person shot by police in 2018 in Boulder County, and the second by Longmont police.

Louisville Cpl. Joe Lamb on June 7 shot Nicholas Moses, 25, after Moses reportedly drove his truck at officers and rammed a patrol car. The incident took place at Village Square Shopping Center after officers responded to a call of suspicious people and possible drug activity. Moses survived and was charged with menacing and obstruction. Boulder County District Attorney Michael Dougherty ruled the shooting justified.

Gillie Thurby III, 28, was shot and killed by Longmont police on Sept. 20 outside Regal Cinema at Village at the Peaks after Thurby reportedly pulled a gun on officers, who were there to arrest him for failing to appear in court on a sexual assault case. The two officers who fired, who have not yet been identified due to safety concerns, also were cleared by Dougherty.

John Bear: 303-473-1355, bearj@dailycamera.com or twitter.com/johnbearwithme