A Missouri police officer who fatally struck a four-year-old with a cruiser while driving onto a sidewalk was charged with first-degree involuntary manslaughter.

Nearly one year after Andria Elizabeth Heese, 28, killed young Gabriella Curry during a tragic accident, Camden County prosecutor Heather Miller announced the class C felony charge on Monday.

The Columbia Tribune reports that the delay in charging Heese were due to the complexity of the investigation.

'The delay in this has been due to the complexity of the investigation,' said Miller.

Andria Heese (left) has been charged with first-degree involuntary manslaughter in the death of four-year-old Gabriella Curry (right) on January 4

'Anytime we have a serious traffic incident, especially when there is a fatality involved, then we are looking at not just an interview, but actual reconstruction. There were a lot of videos which had to be reviewed and video which was recovered later.'

Video courtesy of FOX4

Heese (pictured) was driving her police cruiser onto a sidewalk when she fatally struck Curry

Heese faces three to 10 years in prison if convicted, but she also runs that chance of receiving probation as an alternative sentencing.

'We have been in contact with the victim’s family the entire time and have kept them appraised of this,' Miller continued.

Aaron and Cheyenne Curry, Gabriella's parents, were awarded $3.4million in a settlement in May from a wrongful death claim against the City of Columbia and an additional $125,000 settlement from Columbia Public Schools in August.

The school district denied any wrongdoing or liability when making the payment to Curry's parents.

The Missouri State Highway Patrol reports that Heese hit the child on January 4 while trying to park her police cruiser on a sidewalk at the entrance of Muriel Williams Battle High School around 3.55pm.

Cheyenne Curry was a bus driver with Student Transportation of America and had taken Gabriella with her while she completed her afternoon route that day.

The fatal incident happened at Muriel Williams Battle High School around 3.55pm when Heese was on traffic detail and monitoring kids loading onto school buses

For reasons that are still unknown, Gabriella was walking along a sidewalk as buses prepared to take children home.

Heese, a five-year veteran who was assigned to traffic detail at Battle High School, left a nearby roadway and drove her 2015 Chevrolet Tahoe onto a sidewalk to get a better view of students.

After Gabriella was hit, Heese and a second officer performed lifesaving efforts before the child was transported to University Hospital.

Curry (pictured) received lifesaving efforts from two officers before she succumbed to her injuries at University Hospital

Pictured: a memorial for Gabriella was place outside of Battle High School after the incident earlier this year

Gabriella succumbed to her injuries just 30 minutes later.

Witness reports from February 2019 revealed that Heese was not speeding at the time of the incident, according tot the Missourian.

'At this point, I saw the little girl. She had appeared from the very back bus, like right where it happened at. She had a pink coat on. At the same time I saw a police vehicle pulling up. She wasn't speeding. She wasn't going fast,' the witness said.

The witness also said Gabriella never entered the street or ran in between school buses at the time.

Reports indicate that there was alcohol or distracted driving were not factors thought to be involved in the case.