Deputies fatally shoot 81-year-old Upstate man when he fires shot at them, sheriff says

Deputies in Union County fatally shot an 81-year-old man after he fired a shot toward them, according to Union County Sheriff David Taylor.Taylor said the incident happened Saturday night at 119 Baber Street.Taylor said deputies responded to the home on Baber Street around 9:45 p.m., in reference to a man firing his gun into the air.That man was identified as the victim, Harold Thomspon.Taylor said when deputies arrived to the scene, they spoke to the 911 caller.The 911 caller told deputies that Thompson fired his gun into the air after their dog started barking at him.After several failed attempts to make contact with Thompson, deputies decided to get an evaluation order on Thompson, Taylor said. Taylor said when deputies arrived with the order, the decision was made to send the Union County Sheriff’s Office Special Response Team in.Once the response team was inside, members ordered Thompson to present himself with his hands in the air and in plain sight.Taylor said after several orders, Thompson came out of the back bedroom with a firearm, pointing the firearm at the deputies. Deputies continued to order Thompson to lower his weapon.Thompson then discharged the firearm at the deputies, according to Taylor.Taylor said deputies fired back, fatally striking Thompson.

Deputies in Union County fatally shot an 81-year-old man after he fired a shot toward them, according to Union County Sheriff David Taylor.

Taylor said the incident happened Saturday night at 119 Baber Street.

Advertisement

Taylor said deputies responded to the home on Baber Street around 9:45 p.m., in reference to a man firing his gun into the air.

That man was identified as the victim, Harold Thomspon.

Taylor said when deputies arrived to the scene, they spoke to the 911 caller.

The 911 caller told deputies that Thompson fired his gun into the air after their dog started barking at him.

After several failed attempts to make contact with Thompson, deputies decided to get an evaluation order on Thompson, Taylor said.

Taylor said when deputies arrived with the order, the decision was made to send the Union County Sheriff’s Office Special Response Team in.

Once the response team was inside, members ordered Thompson to present himself with his hands in the air and in plain sight.

Taylor said after several orders, Thompson came out of the back bedroom with a firearm, pointing the firearm at the deputies.

Deputies continued to order Thompson to lower his weapon.

Thompson then discharged the firearm at the deputies, according to Taylor.

Taylor said deputies fired back, fatally striking Thompson.