A 50-year-old man who authorities say killed himself in his SUV in January as two Clackamas County deputies shot at him fired his handgun several times but apparently wasn’t aiming at law enforcement, records show.

David J. Engebretson shot himself four times and was hit three times by deputies early Jan. 5, according to police reports released by the county sheriff’s office. The Oregon State Medical Examiner’s Office ruled his death a suicide and concluded that he died from self-inflicted gunshot wounds to the head. The office determined shots to his chest contributed to his death.

No one else was injured. A Clackamas County grand jury later ruled the shooting didn’t warrant criminal charges for the deputies who fired.

The 245 pages of reports do not say how many times Deputies Scott Krause and Trevor Wolf fired on Engebretson or where else he was hit, other than his head and chest. The documents, released by the Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office, didn’t include write-ups of interviews with Krause or Wolf or a copy of the medical examiner’s report, but all three are mentioned several times.

According to the records, Krause spotted Engebretson’s gold Ford Explorer parked near Oak Grove Methodist Church, learned Engebretson was the registered owner after checking his license plate and discovered he had a warrant for his arrest stemming from an unlawful use of a weapon charge. Wolf responded to the scene after Krause called for backup.

Engebretson refused to get out of his SUV when asked and at some point, the deputies reported shots being fired from inside the SUV. The sheriff’s office said both Krause and Wolf fired at Engebretson.

Deputies later heard a final gunshot coming from the SUV and saw Engebretson stop moving, the reports said.

Engebretson died in the passenger seat of his SUV. Two empty cans of Mike’s Harder Lemonade and a .22 caliber snub-nose revolver were among the items found in the SUV. Deputies noted that it appeared the handgun had been fired five times, the report said.

A third deputy, Nate Ariel, reported firing non-lethal ammunition at Engebretson and the SUV, the report said.

Ariel told detectives he’d just arrived home from finishing his work shift at 3 a.m. but drove to the church after hearing reports of gunfire and a driver barricading himself inside his SUV, the reports said. He said he went because he had a non-lethal option and thought it would help coax the driver out.

Ariel said he shot out Engebretson’s windows with foam batons — blunt-impact projectiles — so deputies at the scene could see inside the SUV, the reports said. He said he then fired “chemical rounds” into the SUV. When Engebretson didn’t respond, he fired another foam baton at the man’s chest, according to the reports.

When Engebretson didn’t respond to that either, a deputy holding a ballistic shield led Ariel and several other deputies to the man, where they found him dead, the reports said.

A neighbor of the church told detectives after the shooting that Engrebretson used to live across the street from her. She said he’d fired several gunshots into her home from across the street last Fourth of July, according to the reports. The documents doesn't say why.

Engrebretson was arrested for that shooting and charged with unlawful use of a weapon, reckless endangering and second-degree criminal mischief. A Clackamas County judge ordered him the next day to not contact that neighbor, court records show.

Engrebretson was released from jail July 10 but was later arrested after not appearing for court the next month. He posted bail in October, then missed another court date in November, so another warrant was issued for his arrest, according to court records.

It was that warrant that Clackamas County deputies discovered when they found Engrebretson in his SUV in January.

Engebretson’s half-sister described her brother to detectives as an alcoholic living out of his SUV and the father of an adult son. She said he “owed money to everyone in his life,” including her, the reports said. She said she couldn’t provide any direct knowledge of Engebretson’s state of mind leading up to the shooting, according to the reports.

Detectives later spoke with Engebretson’s son in Molalla. The son said he was adopted as a child and didn’t have contact with Engebretson until a few years ago, the report said. He said Engebretson claimed he was dying of pancreatic cancer.

The son said he suspected Engebretson may have been suicidal but said his father never said anything about harming himself. In the weeks before his death, Engebretson gave his son the titles to a vehicle and a boat.

-- Everton Bailey Jr.

ebailey@oregonian.com | 503-221-8343 |@EvertonBailey

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.