A man who was wanted in connection with a domestic violence case allegedly was armed with a knife when he was killed in a confrontation with county and federal law enforcement officers Monday afternoon.

Jeremy Dale Edmonds, 42, had a knife in his hand when two deputy U.S. marshals shot him early Monday afternoon, Tulsa Police Sgt. Brandon Watkins said.

Watkins, whose detectives are investigating the fatal shooting, said they have not yet had the opportunity to interview the two deputy marshals who fired their weapons.

The Northern Oklahoma Violent Crimes Task Force, comprising officers from multiple agencies, was attempting to arrest Edmonds on a warrant for domestic assault and battery by strangulation when the shooting occurred.

Around 2:30 p.m., deputy U.S. marshals, Tulsa County sheriff’s deputies and Tulsa police officers were at 35 N. Louisville Ave. — between Harvard and Yale avenues and just north of Interstate 244 — to arrest Edmonds. A Tulsa police spokesman said Monday that police officers were providing perimeter security.

A U.S Marshals Service press release issued Tuesday reveals that deputies made several attempts to get Edmonds to surrender before entering the home. Authorities soon found Edmonds hiding in a bedroom. He refused to obey commands before being tased by deputies and then was shot after becoming combative, the release says.

“The fugitive became violent and attempted to assault the officers with a knife,” according to the release. “Shots were fired striking the fugitive, which stopped the knife attack.”

The agency said that in accordance with its policy it will not release the names of the deputies involved in the shooting, though the Office of Professional Responsibility is expected to conduct an investigation along with the agency’s Shooting Review Board to determine whether their actions were justified.

Edmonds is accused of choking a woman at the Louisville Avenue address on Oct. 10 after she refused to have sex with him, according to a probable cause affidavit.

Edmonds reportedly had a medical condition that left him in pain and bedridden. But he managed to get out of bed that day for the first time, informed the woman what he wanted and then became irate when she declined, the affidavit states.

Edmonds “grabbed her by the throat and threw her on the bed,” investigators wrote in the affidavit.

Edmonds hit the woman’s head against the floor multiple times as she tried to escape, and she told police that she “saw stars,” according to the affidavit.

The woman had bruises on her neck, arms and wrists and lacerations on her jaw. Medical personnel noted that she had a drooping mouth and slurred speech “consistent with being strangled,” according to the affidavit.