WETUMPKA — Authorities have released the name of the man shot and killed by Elmore County deputies Thursday night.

Johnny Burney, 71, of Elmore County, was killed after officers entered a home on Mosley Drive in Eclectic to serve a search warrant, said Sheriff Bill Franklin. The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the case, standard procedure in an officer involved shooting.

"We have executed numerous search warrants at this residence in the past and have arrested numerous subjects on drug charges at this residence in the past,"

Franklin said. "But none of those drug arrests at this residence involved Mr. Burney.

"We have spoken with Mr. Burney's relatives. They of course are upset, that's understandable. They want to know what went on. We have given them as much information as we could, while not damaging the integrity of the ongoing investigation."

Officers had made a controlled narcotics buy at the house earlier on Thursday, and returned about 6 p.m. to serve a search warrant at the home, Franklin said. Burney was a suspect in the narcotics buy, and the search warrant read that there was a shotgun in the house.

"Through our narcotics investigation we knew the layout of the house and what was inside," Franklin said.

The sheriff said officers believe Burney knew when they were approaching the home, because he had cameras set up throughout the property.

“One of our (drug task force) agents at the front door spoke to the man through the window and told him to be still,” Franklin said Thursday night. At the time he had not released Burney's name, pending notification of next of kin.

Burney allegedly ran through the house and went to a bedroom as officers entered the house, Franklin said. He allegedly produced a handgun and pointed it at officers as they approached.

“He would not comply with orders to put the handgun down,” Franklin said, Thursday night. “This is all still very preliminary. One of the task force agents fired once, and another agent fired twice. From what I observed on the scene, the man was struck once in the left hand and once in the neck area. He died there at the scene very shortly after he received those wounds.”

This makes the second fatal officer involved shooting in Elmore County in a week. On Jan. 3, a Millbrook officer shot and killed a Montgomery man following a high speed chase. Jae Wesley Hardy, 27, was killed, said Millbrook Police Chief P.K. Johnson. Hardy allegedly produced a handgun as officers were approaching the vehicle at the end of the chase, Johnson said.

ALEA is also handling the investigation into the Millbrook shooting. Both cases will be presented to a future session of the Elmore County Grand Jury.