Facebook

A gunman was shot and killed by police at a UPS warehouse in Gloucester County Monday after he took two woman hostage, authorities said.

William Owens, 39, of Sicklerville, was shot dead after he and the hostages exited the facility in Logan Township, which is approximately 20 miles southeast of Philadelphia.

It's still unclear why Owens took the hostages, or why he held the standoff at the facility instead of elsewhere. But the state's Attorney General's office said Tuesday that Owens worked for UPS two years ago.

Here’s what we do know Tuesday about what happened Monday.:

Don't Edit

Gloucester County Prosecutor Charles Fiore. (Tim Hawk | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

What we know

Owens walked into the UPS facility about 8:45 a.m. and fired a handgun, but did not hit anyone, according to the state Attorney General’s Office.

Thirty-two employees, not including the two hostages, were safely taken out of the warehouse. They were escorted to a nearby Holiday Inn by buses.

The hostages did not receive any injuries, Gloucester County Prosecutor Charles Fiore said at a press conference. Owens had a prior relationship with one of the woman, Fiore said.

Don't Edit

Forces gathered in Logan

Officers from throughout the area showed up in Logan, a township of about 6,000 people in Gloucester County. Television news footage showed officers crouched behind a vehicle behind the building’s loading dock during the standoff.

Shortly before noon, more than three hours after the incident first started, Fiore held a news conference at a township building about 8 miles away.

Soon afterwards, a short burst of gunfire was heard at the scene. Fiore later said he didn’t know how many shots police fired or whether the gunman fired any shots.

Don't Edit

(Joe Lamberti/Camden Courier-Post via AP)

'He did not surrender'

Owens was pronounced dead at the scene, the attorney general’s office said.

Authorities had tried negotiating with Owens, but those attempts were unsuccessful. “There was an intervention,” Fiore said. “He did not surrender.”

The attorney general’s office said it is leading the investigation because a county-level agency, the Gloucester County SWAT Team, was involved.

Don't Edit

The gunman had a record

Owens had a criminal record dating back to 2001, when he was found guilty of aggravated assault, court records show. He did jail time on that offense, and was sentenced again to up to five years in 2006 for an aggravated assault attempt. Other incidents in 2005 and 2014 list aggravated assault and weapons charges. His latest court activity came in April of 2017 for violating a domestic violence order. He was sentenced to three years probation.

Don't Edit

Don't Edit

(Joe Lamberti/Camden Courier-Post via AP)

What we don't know

We don’t know the nature of the relationship between Owens and the hostages. A woman who said she was Owens’ current girlfriend for two years, Paris Thomas, told reporters that one of the hostages was an ex-girlfriend. Authorities have not identified the hostages.

It is not clear what prompted Owens to go to the UPS facility. It’s clear he had family there because a woman who said she was a niece was taken to the Holiday Inn with the other employees.

“It came out of nowhere,” said the woman, who did not want to be identified. “This isn’t my uncle. He was never like this."

Don't Edit

Gail Wright of Barrington, the cousin of alleged gunman Will Owens, of Sicklerville, talks to reporters about the standoff at the UPS facility in Logan Township, Gloucester County, Monday, Dec. 14, 2019. (Tim Hawk | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com)

He was a 'good guy'

Gail Wright, a woman at the scene who described herself as the suspect's cousin, described him as "a good guy."

"He must have felt forced, otherwise, he wouldn't have done this," she said.

A woman who identified herself only as the gunman's niece said her uncle was not "in a good state of mind. That's not my uncle. He was never like this."

Not much is known about Owens at this point besides his prior brushes with law enforcement.

Don't Edit

(WPVI-TV/6ABC via AP)

The Associated Press and Amanda Hoover contributed to this report.

Alex Napoliello may be reached at anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @alexnapoNJ. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips