An armed suspect took his own life Friday, after leading officers on a chase and into a standoff alongside I-65 on the northwest side, Indianapolis police said.

Police officers called the SWAT team and crisis negotiators to the scene in an attempt to end the standoff peacefully, but their efforts were in vain, IMPD Deputy Chief Chris Bailey said in a briefing with the media.

"Knowing that he was armed, the sergeant at the scene did an outstanding job of asking the officers to back off, give themselves some distance," Bailey said.

"Unfortunately, despite those efforts ... the man took his own life."

On way to Indiana:Florida man accused of threatening Tyler Trent's family extradited

Bullying video:Guerin students in insult-rap video are no longer enrolled, officials say

The incident started when police were called to the 500 block of Dearborn Street on the city's east side for a reported disturbance, IMPD spokesman Officer Aaron Hamer told IndyStar. The pursuit began when police attempted to stop a truck in the area, Hamer said.

The pursuit, which began around 4:30 p.m., lasted about 20 minutes and reached speeds of about 50 mph on I-65, Bailey said.

According to Bailey, officers employed stop sticks, which deflated the tires of the suspect's pickup truck on the highway as it was approaching the West Kessler Boulevard North exit ramp. They also used a pit maneuver to bring the vehicle to a rest. Once the vehicle was stopped, officers asked the driver to come out, but he refused, Bailey said.

Bailey said the suspect, who was described as a "middle-aged man," was in contact with the 911 center and family members during part of the ordeal. However, at some point, police "lost contact with him."

SWAT team members then employed a flash-bang grenade in the vicinity of the car to get his attention. When that failed, they approached the car while carrying a shield.

"That's when they discovered that he was possibly deceased," Bailey said. "We called medics, and it was confirmed."

Police believe the man used the gun to take his own life, Hamer said.

Bailey called the death "a tragic situation," and he urged anyone who may be struggling with problems, or those who know someone like that, to seek help as soon as possible.

The ramp was closed Friday night, while the investigation was underway.

Call IndyStar digital producer Dwight Adams at 317-444-6532. Follow him on Twitter: @hdwightadams.

Call IndyStar reporter Crystal Hill at 317-444-6094. Follow her on Twitter: @crysnhill.