A man who fatally shot a Duluth police dog and wounded his handler during a Sunday night standoff died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said Tuesday.

The Midwest Medical Examiner’s Office identified the man as 27-year-old Taylor Joseph Turek, of 1021 West Skyline Parkway. An autopsy concluded that he died of a single gunshot wound to the head.

Turek was the subject of a felony-level domestic assault call just before 6:30 p.m. Sunday, authorities said. The Duluth Police Department previously reported that officers negotiated with him for more than an hour before he opened fire.

K-9 Haas, a 3-year-old Belgian Malinois, was struck and killed . His handler, four-year veteran officer Aaron Haller, was treated and released after being struck in the protective vest he was wearing.

Another Duluth police officer, Dale Marcus, returned fire, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said. The 21-year veteran was placed on the standard administrative leave.

ADVERTISEMENT

Police were called to the residence on the report of a “domestic assault involving an individual possibly barricaded with a gun,” the BCA reported. Officers arriving on scene found Turek barricaded in a room adjacent to the garage. The officers took positions around the home and in the garage.

“After approximately an hour of attempting to convince Turek to exit the room to be taken into custody, officers opened the service door to the room,” the BCA said in a news release Tuesday. “At one point, Turek fired his gun, striking Officer Haller and killing Haas. Also at one point, Officer Marcus fired his gun.”

Turek was pronounced dead at the scene. Haller was treated at Essentia Health-St. Mary’s Medical Center.

BCA crime scene personnel recovered a handgun next to Turek’s body, the agency reported. Body cameras worn by the officers captured the incident.

Turek’s Facebook page and various public records indicate he was born and raised in the Toledo, Ohio, area, before moving to Duluth. He had no apparent criminal history.

The BCA is conducting the investigation at the request of the Duluth Police Department. It was the first time a Duluth officer fired at a suspect since 2014, when a 34-year-old man was shot and wounded after he barricaded himself inside a Piedmont Heights garage, threatened suicide and refused to drop a knife.

Once the investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its reports over to the St. Louis County Attorney’s Office for review.

Haas was the first K-9 killed in the Duluth Police Department’s history, Chief Mike Tusken said. The department is making plans for a memorial service next week, he said.