Authorities released the names of a man and woman who were involved in fatal shootings involving a Cathedral City police officer earlier this week.

The woman was identified as Desert Hot Springs resident Paola Minero, 23, and La Quinta resident Robert Tapia, 28, according to the Riverside County Sheriff's Department. There are unconfirmed reports they were an estranged couple.

According to Riverside County Superior Court records, Tapia was convicted twice in 2016 of incidents related to domestic violence. Both led to criminal protective orders identifying Minero as a victim.

Investigators say they were involved in a disturbance Sunday afternoon behind Big 5 Sporting Goods at Date Palm Drive and McCallum Way. Tapia fatally shot Minero just as a police officer got to the scene, according to investigators.

Tapia opened fire on the officer and struck his patrol unit. The officer shot back and struck Tapia, who later died at a hospital.

Separate gofundme.com accounts were started to raise money for Tapia and Minero's funerals. Minero's account describes her as a mother of three daughters, ages 4, 2 and 11 months.

"It's such a tragedy to have lost wonderful person, mother, daughter, sister and friend who's (sic) life was cut short," an organizer wrote on the fundraiser page.

The fundraiser page for Tapia only states that family members are trying to raise money for his funeral.

SIGN UP FOR FACEBOOK NEWS ALERTS: Message us here to get started

MORE:Phone records build murder case against Marine from Twentynine Palms

MORE:Coachella shooting injures boy, injuries not life threatening

The Cathedral City incident is still under investigation and officials want anyone with information to call (951) 955-2777.

It preceded another officer involved shooting that occurred Wednesday night in the 77-300 block of Avenida Montezuma in the La Quinta Cove neighborhood.

According to the sheriff's department, a man assaulted sheriff's deputies who were investigating a burglary. A deputy shot the man, who suffered injuries that weren't life threatening.

None of the sheriff's deputies were injured and the man's name hasn't been released.

Desert Sun reporter Colin Atagi covers crime, public safety and road and highway safety. He can be reached at Colin.Atagi@desertsun.com or follow him at @tdscolinatagi.