Corrections & Clarifications: A previous version of this article gave an incorrect date for the shooting and Tempe Officer Joseph Jaen's retirement.

When former Tempe police Officer Joseph Jaen realized he had fatally shot a 14-year-old boy holding a toy gun in January 2019, he appeared to be in disbelief.

"F--k man, he's just a f--king kid. It's a f--king toy gun," Jaen is heard on his body camera saying minutes after the Jan. 15, 2019 shooting.

After nearly a year of requests from the family of Antonio Arce and the media, Tempe police on Tuesday released numerous public records and recordings related to the shooting, including a 173-page report.

The shooting and Jaen's immediate response were all recorded on his body camera. Before he realized Arce was a teen holding a toy gun, Jaen on his hand-held radio described Arce as being in his 40s and holding a firearm to an emergency dispatcher, the footage shows.

The department also released files that described Jaen's 14-year career with the department. It included commendations and some disciplinary allegations, such as verbal discipline for taking time off work without permission.

For nearly a year, The Arizona Republic, other local news outlets and Arce's family have called for the public release of the police report and an uncut version of the footage that depicts the shooting.

Previously, Tempe police had only released a two-minute version of Jaen's body-camera footage, which cut off before he rounded the corner to see Arce's body. Police screened the full footage for the media shortly after the shooting, but didn't release it publicly. The latest footage released, which is 11 minutes long, blurs out the body of Arce.

Police also released body-camera video from other officers at the scene, including two showing officers performing CPR on Arce.

Tempe police had previously refused to release the documents and videos until after the Maricopa County Attorney's Office decided whether it will press any charges against Jaen.

Police officials didn't indicate why they'd changed their minds.

On Tuesday, the Maricopa County Attorney's Office said it is still reviewing the case.

Mother: Arce has 'a nervous tick' and would run if he saw police

Jaen, who retired in May, shot Arce in a Tempe alleyway after someone called 911 to report a burglary.

Hours after the incident, a Tempe detective questioned Jaen about the shooting at a police station with his lawyer and a Maricopa County attorney present.

"In describing his first realization that the gun the subject was carrying was possibly a toy gun since it had an orange tip, (officer) Jaen had difficulty speaking further until he finally stated, 'it was like why?'" according to the police report.

The police report also says that Arce's mother, Sandra Gonzalez, had called 911 to get help in finding her son. She had called police because she didn't know where her son was and he wasn't picking up his cell phone when she called it, she has previously said.

Gonzalez "described him as having a nervous tick," the police report says. "Furthermore, she stated that if he were to see the police, he would get nervous. Additionally, if the police tell him to stop, he would not stop due to being nervous."

Arce, the youngest victim of a police shooting since 2011

The Tempe Police Department has had few police shootings in recent years. But the case has stood out because Arce is the youngest victim of a police shooting in the state since at least 2011, according to a database compiled by The Arizona Republic

The shooting captured national attention and former Democratic presidential candidate Julián Castro, who ended his bid for his party's nomination on Jan. 2, had repeatedly mentioned Arce's name during his campaign as a call to address police shootings at a federal level.

Two weeks after the shooting, Gonzalez told The Republic in an interview that she wanted Jaen to be charged with the killing of her son.

Since 2011, only one officer in 600 cases in Arizona has been charged following an on-duty shooting. In December 2017, former Mesa Officer Phillip "Mitch" Brailsford was acquitted of murder by a Maricopa County jury for the killing of Daniel Shaver.

"I trusted the police," Gonzalez told The Republic in Spanish through her tears last year." I never imagined they would kill my son here.”

Retirement benefits

Earlier this month, the Tempe Police Public Safety Personnel Retirement System Board unanimously voted to award Jaen early accidental disability retirement.

It's not known what incident Jaen cited in his application as contributing to a disability. Tempe officials have declined to comment on the cause as it would violate federal medical privacy laws.

Public-safety pensions are funded via city and employee contributions. Typically, officers filing for accidental disability pensions receive a pension equal to a minimum of 50% of their salary, according to the Arizona Public Safety Personnel Retirement System website.

However, officers with fewer than 20 years of service when they file for disability lose 4% per year for every year less than 20 not served.

Jaen earned approximately $78,000 annually, according to a public employee salary database maintained by The Republic. He will likely receive upwards of $29,000 annually.

'He always worried about us'

Arce's mother has described "Toñito" as a typical energetic 14-year-old. Like most teen boys, he occasionally found himself in trouble, but it was never anything too serious, she said. He liked to go to the gym and practice parkour. He dreamed of becoming a lawyer and buying his mom her own house.

Gonzalez previously shared an anecdote about her son that she said showed the compassion the boy had. One day, when he was 11, he came home from school and told his mother he was hungry.

Desperate and frustrated that the family didn’t have enough money for food, she took her anger out on him, cursing at him in Spanish.

“I don’t even have money for tortillas," she recalled telling him.

Gonzalez said Antonio went to his grandfather’s job where the boy offered to help him sand furniture in exchange for some money so he could buy tortillas, she said.

“When he came home, he told me, ‘Mom, I brought you the tortillas.’ I looked at him and told him, ‘Where did you get them?’ He responded, ‘I went to go work with Papa Raul and told him if he would pay me, so I could buy you tortillas,’” she said, crying. “He always worried about us.”

Uriel Garcia covers public-safety issues in Arizona. Reach him at uriel.garcia@azcentral.com. Follow him on Twitter @ujohnnyg.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.