ST. LOUIS • A carjacking suspect who died in a gunfight with St. Louis police Tuesday afternoon had been charged last year with shooting a woman in Jefferson City.

The man shot and killed Tuesday near a St. Louis Schnucks store was identified Wednesday as Quency Chavez Floyd, 22. Police and court records give an address for Floyd on Cabanne Avenue in St. Louis.

Records show he was charged with the shooting of a woman during a domestic dispute in Jefferson City two months ago. She was hit in the shoulder and survived. He was never taken into custody in that case and was wanted by Jefferson City police.

No officers were injured in Wednesday’s shootout in St. Louis. Floyd was taken to a hospital in critical and unstable condition and later died, police said.

The incident began when an undercover unit began tracking a white Saturn that had been taken at gunpoint in a carjacking in the 5500 block of Cabanne Avenue about 11 a.m. Tuesday, St. Louis Police Chief John Hayden said in a news conference about an hour after the shooting.

The car was spotted by license plate recognition cameras a little before 3 p.m. near Natural BridgeAvenue and Clara avenues, and the undercover unit began following the vehicle, Hayden said.

Floyd stopped at the Schnucks Market at 3431 Union Boulevard and went inside the store for about 10 minutes, police said. When Floyd left the store, officers confronted him and identified themselves as police, Hayden said.

He ran until he reached a fenced area of the parking lot. Floyd then turned and fired a gun at the four pursuing officers, who each returned fire, according to Hayden.

Floyd was struck in the torso and lower extremities. Police found a pistol and the stolen Saturn at the scene, Hayden said.

The department’s Force Investigation Unit will be looking into the shooting and will review all available security footage, Hayden said.

Relatives of Floyd could not immediately be reached. No one answered the door at two addresses on Cabanne listed for Floyd.

He was charged Nov. 20 in the shooting of the woman in Jefferson City. Authorities said Floyd shot a woman, 20, in the shoulder early that morning and then fled.

Police there said he lived in Jefferson City, though charges in the case list a St. Louis address.

He was charged with first-degree assault and armed criminal action and ordered held without bail in that case.

Court records also show a pending stealing case in St. Louis from 2017. In 2016 he pleaded guilty to physically taking property from a victim in Jefferson City and was sentenced to probation.