VACAVILLE (CBS SF) – A man who was a suspect in a double stabbing and home arson on Monday evening, and was shot by a Fairfield police officer later Monday night, has died from his injuries, according to Vacaville police.

Police said the suspect, Nathaniel Holland, 38, of Vacaville, was found hiding in a heavily wooded creek area in the 1000 block of Mason Street around 10:45 p.m. by a Fairfield police K-9 unit.

The suspect then attacked the dog with a knife and was shot by an officer, Vacaville police said. Holland died despite life saving efforts of police.

Police didn't say if Holland died at the scene or at a local hospital.

Vacaville Stabbing Fire Suspect Nathaniel Holland (Vacaville Police)

The first call came in at 6:40 p.m. Monday. Officers responded to a home in the 1200 block of Alderwood Way for a report of a stabbing as well as a house fire.

Police said officers found out that Holland was seen running from the scene, and later investigation determined an argument with a 43-year-old woman believed to be his girlfriend and the mother to the other two female victims led to the stabbing and fire.

Vacaville police told KPIX 5 Holland stabbed the mother of his children and their 16-year-old daughter, who tried to intervene. Then, authorities believe he poured gasoline in the house and lit it on fire with the couple's four-year-old daughter and two teenage boys still inside.

"It's obviously very traumatic what they are going through right now. They are lucky they are all going to survive," said Vacaville Police Lt. Chris Poland.

Police said the woman and a few of the kids were initially trapped inside as flames blocked the front of the home, but then climbed out a back window to escape.

Neighbor Ginger Sisk said husband heard the family screaming from the front yard and ran to help a third child -- an unharmed brother -- rescue the four-year-old girl.

"It was fully engulfed. It was bad," said Sisk. "He kicked the fence down, went back there and kicked the sliding glass window down. And actually, the brother went in and pulled her out."

One neighbor, who didn't want to appear on camera, witnessed the children fleeing the fire.

"I seen a couple people run across. And then I heard a loud BOOM! I get out of my car and there is children running from the house screaming," the neighbor said. "I approached the house and its on fire. And the kids are saying, 'He stabbed my mom in the neck! He stabbed my mom in the neck!'"

The girl who was injured in the fire was transported to a Sacramento hospital for treatment of burn injuries.

The Fairfield Police K-9 was airlifted to UC Davis for medical treatment after being stabbed by the suspect.

"The CHP helicopter was used to lifeflight the canine to UC Davis Veterinary Center. And to have a K-9 stabbed is pretty traumatic for everybody," said Poland.

Luckily, the K-9 is expected to survive.

Vacaville and Fairfield police, along with the Solano County District Attorney's Office, will investigate the officer-involved shooting and the officer who shot Holland has been placed on administrative leave, police said.

Police noted that they have responded to calls for service at the house many times. Holland was well known to law enforcement and served jail time several years ago for assaulting an officer.

The fire was so hot the home was still burning well after noon today. As of early Tuesday evening, it is finally out.

Anyone with information about the incident is being asked to contact Vacaville police Det. Yetter at (707) 469-4846.

© Copyright 2019 CBS Broadcasting Inc. and Bay City News Service. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.