A 42-year-old man killed his girlfriend, mother, stepfather and infant daughter in their rural home near Woodburn, then was shot dead by sheriff’s deputies while attacking an 8-year-old girl, authorities said Sunday.

Deputies were called to the “horrific” scene on South Barlow Road late Saturday night, according to Sgt. Brian Jensen, a spokesman for the Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office. The victims ranged in age from 9 months to 66 years.

“I’ve talked to investigators, 20-year veterans, and they’re saying this is a shocking scene,” he said.

Authorities said Mark Leo Gregory Gago killed all four relatives and might have claimed a fifth had deputies not intervened.

“They encountered what they believe, at the time, was an adult male attempting to kill a child,” Jensen said. “They then used lethal force, thus saving the child’s life.”

Jensen could not offer a possible motive or specify how the four relatives were killed.

“They were not shot," he told reporters near the scene Sunday morning. "We’re not sure what was used at this time. I’ve been told that there were numerous weapons, swords, things of that nature in the residence. The investigators are trying to determine what exactly was used to kill each person.”

A roommate, Tracy Burbank, 40, also was injured in the attack. She and the 8-year-old – the girlfriend’s daughter from a previous relationship – were taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries, Jensen said.

The sheriff’s office identified the victims as:

Olivia Lynn Rose Gago, 9 months

Shaina E. Sweitzer, 31 years old

Jerry William Bremer, 66

Pamela Denise Bremer, 64

It’s not clear how many deputies fired on Gago, but Jensen said six have been placed on administrative leave – standard procedure when law enforcement officers are involved in a shooting.

Gago and the victims shared the home in the 32000 block of South Barlow Road – a rural area near Woodburn surrounded by farmland that sits just south of tiny Adams Airport. A Facebook page appearing to belong to Gago describes him as a self-employed, in-home caregiver.

Deputies responded to an emergency call from someone inside the home at about 10:15 p.m. Saturday.

“It was described as a violent and a pretty hectic scene” to dispatchers, Jensen said.

There were other 911 calls, he said, though it was unclear how the others became aware of the attack.

“It’s somewhat remote, the properties out here are not your typical urban house right on top of one another. Most of the houses out here have a little bit of property," he said. “On this particular residence, it appears that there is farmland around. It’s kind of wide open down there.”

One homicide victim, a woman, was found outside the home, Jensen said. Deputies then heard screams coming from the residence, where they found Gago attacking the 8-year-old girl, he said. After killing him, deputies discovered the other three bodies inside the home.

The suspect of the quadruple murder has been identified as:



Mark Leo Gregory Gago - 42 years old - Woodburn pic.twitter.com/hQlyO60fzt — Clackamas Sheriff (@ClackCoSheriff) January 20, 2019

Oregon court records show Gago had two prior assault cases, in 2001 and in 2005, which were dismissed. Jensen said he was arrested in August for unlawful possession of a firearm and was booked into the Clackamas County Jail. The disposition of that case is unclear.

Gago was divorced, and records show multiple hearings in 2017 and 2018 regarding his failure to pay child support.

Records show he made his last payment to his ex-wife in early 2015. A contempt of court hearing had been scheduled for March 25. The Oregonian/OregonLive was unable to reach the woman, who was not at the Woodburn house at the time of the attack. KGW-TV reported the woman asked for privacy.

Emergency responders closed South Barlow Road between Highway 211 and South Schneider Road on Saturday night and reopened it around 11 a.m. Sunday.

This article has been updated with information about the suspect and the victims. Additionally, the article now describes the incident as being near Woodburn, instead of near Canby.

Staff writers Samantha Swindler and Noelle Crombie contributed to this report.

-- Mike Rogoway | twitter: @rogoway | 503-294-7699