A Knoxville Police Department officer fatally shot a motorist who was allegedly driving toward officers in the parking lot of a North Knoxville apartment complex on Saturday, according to the Knox County Sheriff's Office.

The motorist has been identified as 30-year-old Jason C. Minnick of Clinton.

KPD officers responded about 7:30 a.m. Saturday to a report of a "suspicious male possibly dealing drugs in the parking lot of Tanglewood Apartments" on Tillery Road, the sheriff's office said in a news release Sunday.

"When officers arrived and approached the suspect’s vehicle on foot, the suspect drove into the direction of the officers," the release reads.

"Fearing for their lives, one of the officers fired into the vehicle, striking the suspect. The suspect died as a result of his injuries."

The officer who pulled the trigger has not yet been identified. No officers were hurt.

At the scene, residents said they saw officers standing around a vehicle that had crashed into a retaining wall near the entrance of the apartment complex.

Minnick's criminal history in Knox County dates back to 2006 and includes convictions for theft, vandalism, forgery, trespassing, possession of drug paraphernalia, resisting arrest and evading arrest in a motor vehicle, court records show. He was scheduled to stand trial Jan. 29 on charges of meth dealing.

The sheriff's office is investigating the shooting as part of an agreement with KPD. Further updates will come from the Knox County District Attorney General's Office.

The fatal shooting marks the third involving KPD officers in as many months.

In November, Officer James Gadd fatally shot a suicidal woman after she charged at him while brandishing a combat knife. Prosecutors deemed his actions justified.

In December, KPD officers went to a home in Fountain City to arrest 21-year-old Jacob Lane Morgan on aggravated assault charges stemming from a previous shooting. After an exchange of gunfire, Morgan died. According to the sheriff's office, the medical examiner found he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Authorities have yet to release further details about that case, which is still being reviewed by prosecutors.