The GBI is investigating the recent deaths of two Georgia men who experienced breathing problems after police put them in handcuffs.

In separate incidents in Savannah and Thomson, the men were involved in confrontations with police and were awaiting transport when they began having medical issues. Both times, officers attempted CPR until help could arrive. Their efforts were ultimately unsuccessful.

The incident in Thomson, located in McDuffie County about 30 miles east of Augusta, happened Saturday afternoon. According to the GBI, Thomson officers responded to a home on Northview Extension after an armed man was seen in the backyard.

There was a shooting minutes before about four blocks away, Police Chief John Seay told the Augusta Chronicle. Responding officers confronted the man, identified by police as Zayounta Washington, and placed him in handcuffs.

He complained that he couldn’t breathe, and officers helped him to sit upright, Seay said. They began CPR after he appeared to pass out, the Chronicle reported.

Washington was stabilized and taken to Augusta University Medical Center, where he died shortly after arrival. The GBI performed an autopsy Monday to determine the cause of death.

“The results of the autopsy are pending toxicology and other lab testing,” Patrick Morgan, the special agent in charge, said in an email.

On Monday, Charles Garrett, 36, died after experiencing a medical issue on River Street in Savannah, according to the GBI. Officers first encountered Garrett at City Market while investigating a report of a man with a gun.

Garrett took off running, and a firearm fell to the ground, GBI spokeswoman Nelly Miles said.

Media Advisory: GBI Investigates In-Custody Death in Savannah https://t.co/k2rNG5KH8P pic.twitter.com/58h1purwck — GA Bureau of Invest (@GBI_GA) January 1, 2019

The chase wound through the historic riverfront district, into the Bohemian Hotel and onto River Street. Miles said Garrett complied with officers’ commands and was taken into custody. Then he, too, complained of breathing problems.

“His vital signs were normal, and he was pending transport to the hospital by law enforcement for further examination,” she said in a news release. “While still located on River Street, he experienced a medical issue which required immediate attention.”

Garrett was pronounced dead at Memorial Health University Medical Center.

The GBI was expected to perform an autopsy to determine the cause and manner of his death.

In other news: