Update Monday, Jan. 14, 2019

The Wichita Police Department Monday says the man wounded in Thursday's officer-involved shooting died from his injuries Saturday. That man is identified as 29-year-old Geoffrey Morris, of Wichita.

The official word form police follows a report from a woman identified as Morris' wife that he'd been taken off of life support.

Police say the two officers involved in shooting are a 13-year veteran and a five-year veteran with the WPD and both are part of the WPD Violent Crimes Task Force.

"Both have been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol in officer-involved shootings" the WPD says.

-----

Saturday, Jan. 12, 2019

Tia Brown says her husband, 29-year-old Geoffrey Morris, was the man shot in the officer involved shooting earlier this week.

Brown says family pulled him off life support Saturday after being shot by police while they tried to arrest him on a felony warrant.

She says she was with him in the car just seconds before he was shot. Brown says she has been married to Morris for a little more than a year. She says he was a hard worker and an artist, but was in and out of jail and had been on the run for months.

"He knew he was on borrowed time, so he did whatever he wanted, and he had fun while he was doing it, and he didn't have any intentions on hurting anyone, but if anyone tried to stop him, he wasn't going to let them stop him," said Brown.

Police say the 29-year-old was wanted on multiple warrants and known to carry a gun.

Brown says Thursday she had a meeting to check in with her probation officer at the division of corrections building downtown. Morris went with her, but stayed in the car.

Police say two officers and a KDOC employee planned to arrest the 29- year-old on a felony warrant in the parking lot, when they told him to get out of the car, they say their commands weren't followed. Police say officers made multiple previous attempts to have the suspect turn himself in peacefully.

"I just hear screaming and gun shots and I knew instantly. I turned my head and there was a whole bunch of them surrounding him. I knew exactly what he was going to do, the same thing I was in there for, he was going to drive away," said Brown.

Police say the man reversed, hitting a KDOC vehicle, then drove forward, making officers fear they could be run over, or seriously hurt. One of them has minor injuries.

"He never pulled his gun out, so no, I don't think he was trying to hurt them. He was trying to flee and elude, and if they happened to be in the way, like, he was ready to run them over," said Brown.

Brown says while she heard the shots, she thought he might have gotten away. She later learned he was shot multiple times, once in the head.

She says family pulled him off life support Saturday. Brown says things got worse for Morris in his life when his brother died several years ago.

"Geoffrey's life mattered too...it mattered to a lot of people."

She says she knew she was taking a risk being with him and knows at some point Morris being on the run would end.

"He'd rather be dead then go to prison for the rest of his life. He doesn't get to be with me or his mom, and I guess, in this way, he gets to be with his brother," said Brown.

Police say one officer has minor injuries on his arm from pulling the man from the car. Police say both WPD officers are on paid administrative leave, which is standard policy in officer involved shootings.