Image 1 of 5 ▼

The Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office has confirmed that 15-year-old Josiah Pinner was the teen hit and killed Friday by an undercover deputy while crossing N. Florida Ave. in Tampa.

Josiah's parents are heartbroken. With little information being released by the sheriff's office, the family told FOX 13 that their frustration is mounting as they wait to learn more about the accident that killed their son.

"It's been hell. It's been tough," said Jesse Pinner, Josiah's father.

According to the sheriff's office, the undercover deputy was traveling in an unmarked car when he spotted Josiah's friend crossing the street. He told investigators that he swerved to avoid the friend, only to hit Josiah instead.

However, witnesses who were at the scene have told Josiah's family there could be more to the story.

"He just kept going. They said it looked like he got half a mile down the street to then turn around," said Joanne Rojas, Josiah's mother.

With conflicting stories of what exactly happened, Josiah's parents said they just want to know the truth.

"Nobody is answering nothing," Pinner said. "I've got one call since my son died and the police told me the sheriff's still working."

The sheriff's office told FOX 13 that there is an investigation into the accident underway. However, they added that further details cannot be disclosed at this time.

"There's just so many factors that go into something like this, especially with one of our own employees being involved. With it being under investigation, these things take time and as soon as any information can be released, we will definitely release it," said Col. James Bradford with the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office.

For the family, planning for Josiah's eighth grade graduation has now turned into making funeral arrangements instead.

"All my son kept talking about was, 'Dad, I'm going to high school next year.' Now I have to bury my son. It should be the other way around," Pinner said.

The family said all they can do now is wait for answers, but in the meantime, they said they will continue to make their voices heard.

"I'm not going to sit back and let his story just die down," Rojas said.

The Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office said the deputy involved in the accident is not facing any charges at this time.

He also has not been placed on leave as this is currently not a criminal investigation.