From staff reports

An Escambia County Sheriff's Office deputy was justified in using deadly force to end an altercation with an armed man earlier this year in Walnut Hill, according to a review conducted by the State Attorney's Office.

The state announced Wednesday that it had reviewed the Jan. 25 shooting and determined Sgt. Greg Nesmith acted reasonably when he shot and killed Robert C. Martin. No criminal charges will be filed against the deputy, according to prosecutors.

Deputies were dispatched to a home at 10740 Highway 97 in response to threats Martin made against his wife that day, according to documents released by the State Attorney's Office. Martin's wife told authorities her husband had been drinking at a bar earlier that day, and when he returned home, he started threatening her and behaving belligerently.

Martin's son, who lives in Alabama, called authorities after his father made comments during a phone conversation that led the son to fear violence would break out.

More:Two ECSO deputies attacked by dog while making arrest; dog shot and killed

More:Pensacola police: Driver drops off shooting victim at Sacred Heart, then flees

Deputies who arrived at the home entered the kitchen and saw Martin pull a pistol out of a holster and hold the weapon. The deputies ordered Martin to put down the gun and to keep his hands away from the weapon but he did not comply, according to investigators.

Nesmith, who arrived at the scene shortly after the other deputies, said he saw Martin behind an island bar in the kitchen with his hand over the top of the gun. Nesmith instructed one of the deputies to deploy a Taser, and at that point, Martin picked up the gun and backed up against a wall in the kitchen.

Martin initially pointed the gun down but then lifted it up toward Nesmith and the deputies, at which point Nesmith fired three times, ultimately killing Martin. Nesmith told investigators he fired because he was afraid Martin was going to shoot him or the other deputies.

The other deputies confirmed to investigators that Martin picked up the gun after the Taser order and after numerous orders not the touch the weapon.

An investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement recovered three spent casings and found a loaded .45 caliber Derringer and holder that was used by Martin.