UPDATE: New footage shows tense traffic stop that led now-indicted cop to fatally open fire on car

The attorney for the Newark police officer who killed a driver in January said his client’s decision to jump out of his cruiser three times during the pursuit to shoot at the car was “a heroic act of bravery and courage.”

But grand jurors had another name for it: aggravated manslaughter.

They indicted Jovanny Crespo, 26, on that charge and several others related to the Jan. 28 shooting of Gregory C. Griffin, 46, and Andrew Dixon, 35. Griffin died from a gunshot wound to the head.

Crespo maintains one of the two men in the car pointed a gun at him multiple times during the chase.

Griffin fled a traffic stop that night after another officer reported seeing a gun in the car, and the cruiser in which Crespo was a passenger was one of several that gave chase.

Video from Crespo’s body camera shows the excited officer jumping out of the moving cruiser to fire at the vehicle whenever it slowed or stopped, and urging the driver of the cruiser, Officer Hector Ortiz, to cut off the vehicle. Ortiz repeatedly tells Crespo to “relax” and stay in the car, the video shows.

A still image from a police dashboard camera shows Newark Officer Jovanny Crespo, also pictured in a mug shot at left, fire into a vehicle Jan. 28, killing the driver and seriously injuring the passenger.Essex Co. Jail & Prosecutor

Griffin had no pulse when police pulled him from the car and the semi-conscious Dixon, who was shot in the face, was initially in critical condition, according to authorities. Dixon was later charged with possessing a gun loaded with hollow-point bullets.

"Our client remains wholly perplexed as to why the state has opted to charge him criminally here, as do I, as his actions on the night in question were absolutely justified and in full accordance with the... Attorney General Guidelines dealing with high speed pursuits,” Crespo’s attorney, Patrick Toscano, said Wednesday. “That said, he remains resolute, valiant and confident.”

All police shootings are investigated by the county prosecutor, but the Essex County Prosecutor and Newark police took the unusual step in this case of announcing Feb. 26 that Crespo was suspended without pay and his actions would be reviewed by a grand jury to see if he should be indicted.

“Part of our ongoing improvement strategies are to increase our transparency and accountability," Newark Public Safety Director Anthony F. Ambrose said in a statement Wednesday. "In that respect, we immediately turned over all the video camera recordings on the shooting incident to Essex County Prosecutor Ted Stephens and cooperated fully with the county investigation.

“As I have stated previously, the Officer Crespo’s actions immediately raised concerns for us and were inconsistent with our training and protocols. It should be noted that there were more than a dozen officers on the scene who acted professionally and appropriately and were not involved in the prosecutorial investigation. I think that is evidence that most of our officers understand the correct procedures, even in a high-adrenaline situation like this case, involving a car chase where police know a weapon is present.

The unbiased and impartial evidence we turned over to the prosecutor were presented to the grand jury, which believed the evidence warranted further action. The citizens should have faith that the system is working.”

Immediately after indictments were handed down, Crespo was taken to the Essex County jail, authorities said. He has since been transferred to the Bergen County jail, where a sheriff’s office spokesman said Crespo was “appropriately housed in protective custody.”

He will spend at least a week in jail. The hearing on whether he should be jailed pending trial is scheduled for Tuesday, court officials said.

The New Jersey Attorney General’s use-of-force guidelines discourages firing at a moving vehicle because of the risk to bystanders and passengers. The guidelines say officers should only fire on moving vehicles if there are no other options and there is an “imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm to the officer or another person.”

The video released Tuesday shows Crespo repeatedly telling other officers that one of the men pointed a gun at him and that Griffin tried to run him over. The video shows that no one from that vehicle fired any shots, and the windows are heavily tinted.

Gregory Griffin, 46, of Newark, was shot and killed while fleeing a traffic stop Jan. 28, 2019.Family photo

Griffin’s father, Alphonso Whitaker, said the officer overreacted and deserved to be charged.

“[Griffin] didn’t deserve what that officer did to him,” Whitaker said.

Toscano said Crespo has lived in Newark his whole life and has family in law enforcement and “lives for his job.” A former first assistant Essex County prosecutor, Toscano said his client should never have been prosecuted.

“To all of those who have already vilified and convicted my client, might I state that a good law enforcement officer fights not because he or she hates what is in front of them, but because they love who stands behind them,” Toscano said. “So let’s withhold judgment herein until a petit jury has heard the evidence and rendered a verdict, a verdict that assuredly will allow him to get back to work.”

Rebecca Everett may be reached at reverett@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @rebeccajeverett. Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips

Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.