Man who stabbed woman dies after being shot by Stockton officer

A man who was stabbing a woman with a knife died from gunshot wounds after a Stockton police officer saw the attack and shot him, authorities said Saturday. Police identified the man Sunday as Isaiah Thomas, 40. The officer, Vincent Faso, was on Plymouth Court on an unrelated call around 3:30 p.m. when he "heard a woman screaming and then saw a man was attacking and assaulting her with a knife," according to a release from the Stockton Police Department. Faso ordered the man to drop the knife, but he didn't and continued to stab the woman. The officer then fired his weapon, striking the man, police said. Both the suspect and the victim were hospitalized, said police spokesman Joe Silva. The woman is expected to survive, but the man later died of his injuries.The two are believed to know each other, Silva said.Faso, who started with the police department in 2016, is OK, Stockton police said. “The quick response and heroic actions of Officer Faso more than likely saved the woman’s life," Stockton police Chief Eric Jones said in a statement. Stay with KCRA 3 for the latest.

A man who was stabbing a woman with a knife died from gunshot wounds after a Stockton police officer saw the attack and shot him, authorities said Saturday.

Police identified the man Sunday as Isaiah Thomas, 40.

Advertisement

The officer, Vincent Faso, was on Plymouth Court on an unrelated call around 3:30 p.m. when he "heard a woman screaming and then saw a man was attacking and assaulting her with a knife," according to a release from the Stockton Police Department.

Faso ordered the man to drop the knife, but he didn't and continued to stab the woman. The officer then fired his weapon, striking the man, police said.

Both the suspect and the victim were hospitalized, said police spokesman Joe Silva. The woman is expected to survive, but the man later died of his injuries.

The two are believed to know each other, Silva said.

Faso, who started with the police department in 2016, is OK, Stockton police said.

“The quick response and heroic actions of Officer Faso more than likely saved the woman’s life," Stockton police Chief Eric Jones said in a statement.

Stay with KCRA 3 for the latest.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

SPD is investigating an OIS in the 2900 blk of Plymouth Ct. The suspect is currently at the hospital being treated and the officer is ok. — Stockton Police Dept (@StocktonPolice) February 3, 2019



