ORANGE PARK, Fla. — The Clay County Sheriff's Office is investigating following a fatal deputy-involved shooting near the 1300 block of Blanding Boulevard in Orange Park.

CCSO said a Ford SUV was pulled over by Patrol Deputy William Whitman for a traffic violation around 11 p.m. Sunday.

STAY UPDATED: Download the Action News Jax app for live updates on breaking stories

When backup K-9 deputy Andy McCrea arrived at the scene, deputies said a man brandished a hand gun.

NEW: Appears to be at least 5 bullet holes in the front windshield of the SUV. @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/m3ud23WPD4 — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) February 4, 2019

STORY: Jacksonville motorcyclist ran red light prior to deadly collision, troopers say

McCrea shot and killed the man, Dylan Joseph Mark Cross, deputies said.

A family member confirms this photo of Dylan Cross who was killed during a traffic stop by a Clay County K9 Deputy Sunday. The Sheriffs office says he brandished a gun. FDLE is investigating the shooting, Watch @ActionNewsJax at 5:00. pic.twitter.com/ISVyOjkR9K — Bridgette Matter (@bridgetteANjax) February 4, 2019

Deputies say the man driving this Ford SUV was pulled over for a traffic violation around 11 o'clock Sunday on Blanding Blvd. When a back up K9 officer arrived they tell us the man pulled out a hand gun, the officer fatally shot the man. @ActionNewsJax @WOKVNews pic.twitter.com/tKBX3jy0FH — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) February 4, 2019

Authorities tell Action News Jax the deputy involved in this shooting also shot and killed suspect Ted Tilley in 2012 who killed Detective David White.

“The deputy has been with Clay County Sheriff’s Office for around 15 years. He has been a K-9 officer for and extensive period of time and he is a well-trained deputy,” said Chris Padgett of CCSO.

FDLE is leading the investigation. They are working to learn more about the events that led to the fatal shooting, whether or not the man fired any shots and how many shots the K-9 officer fired.

The man killed has not been identified at this time.

It appears the back windshield of the gray SUV the man was driving is blown out. pic.twitter.com/RUdeNQ5m4x — Beth Rousseau (@BethANJax) February 4, 2019

Cox Media Group