When a December police chase ended with a stolen car spinning out and crashing into a utility pole in South Fulton, the suspect ran away and the scene was eventually cleared.

Once the suspect was arrested, that seemed to be the extent of what happened — and then a body was found more than five weeks later.

South Fulton police now believe Marcus McCrary, 41, was hit and killed by the suspect’s car after a PIT maneuver ran it off Flat Shoals Road around 1 p.m. on Dec. 4, Channel 2 Action News reported. An internal investigation was opened to figure out what happened, but the man’s family is livid.

“Why did they do a PIT maneuver in a residential area,” Kimberly Watson, McCrary’s sister, told Channel 2.

These sisters want to know why an officer used a pit maneuver to stop a car he was chasing through an area where there is heavy foot traffic. Their brother was walking nearby and was hit and killed. Why it took 5 1/2,weeks to find his body. That’s at 5. @wsbtv pic.twitter.com/Uloy05lyqt — Tom Jones (@TomJonesWSBTV) January 18, 2019

Police told the news station an officer’s primary concern when using a PIT maneuver is the time of day and regard for other motorists.

McCrary’s body was found Jan. 11, more than five weeks after the crash, by a landscaper, Channel 2 reported. The impact from the crash knocked him into a wooded area near the downed utility pole.

RELATED: Driver on run after trying to run over cop, downing power line in South Fulton

Credit: Channel 2 Action News Credit: Channel 2 Action News

Another of McCrary’s sisters, Miracle Walker, questioned how police weren’t able to find her brother’s body that day.

“They were out there eight hours or for however long it was,” Miracle Walker told Channel 2. “How did you not (find him)?”

Credit: Channel 2 Action News Credit: Channel 2 Action News

Emmitt Daniels is accused of almost hitting an officer, prompting the chase.

He faces 15 charges, including a murder charge after McCrary’s body was discovered. His initial charges included felony theft, aggravated assault against an officer, first-degree criminal damage to property and several criminal street gang charges, according to Fulton County Jail records.

As of Friday afternoon, he remained in jail without bond.

In other news: