"He just made threats for suicide by cop," a woman's voice warned deputies over the Rutherford County Sheriff's Office radio. They were racing to Breeze Drive after receiving a call that a man was threatening to kill himself.

That man was Allon Jones. He was later shot and killed on the night of Feb. 6 by deputies.

The initial call: Man threatens suicide

After receiving a 911 call around 9:38 p.m., dispatch informed officers that Jones had a handgun and was threatening to shoot himself, according to a dispatch recording obtained by The Daily News Journal.

A news release issued by the Rutherford County Sheriff's Office said they were arriving to a possible hostage situation, but that was not mentioned on the dispatch recording.

According to department policy, a hostage situation is defined as "the holding of any person against their will by an armed or potentially dangerous suspect."

It wasn't clear based upon dispatch discussions if Jones was holding family members hostage, but crisis negotiations team members spent an hour negotiating with Jones, before he exited the home according to a news release.

RCSO spokeswoman Lisa Marchesoni wouldn't comment about the department's policies when entering a similar situation and said the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation was reviewing the case.

"This investigation remains active and ongoing," TBI spokeswoman Susan Niland said. "Once our investigation is concluded, the DA’s office will review the case file for their consideration."

The policy provided to The Daily News Journal didn't mention specific procedures for deputies handling cases of suicidal threats.

Four people were in the two-story home on Breeze Drive: Jones, his wife, his mother-in-law and a brother. Officers were able to get two of the people out of the house and across the street, but the mother-in-law, who had a stroke, couldn't leave the home. Jones stayed in the house, locked in the upstairs master bedroom.

Eventually, officers blocked off the street. The house was at the end of a cul de sac, and they advised Jones' relatives to get far away from the home.

A dispatcher told deputies on the scene there were cameras in the residence and asked them to back off since Jones was "quite agitated."

Department policy states that when dealing with someone who appears to be in a crisis, the deputy shouldn't "corner, or be cornered." It's important, per policy, to give the person plenty of space.

"He has made several threats at this time," the dispatcher said. "If you come up the stairs, he'll start shooting."

Jones, who was on the phone with 911 dispatch, disconnected the line.

At around 11:44 p.m., officers on the scene told dispatch that one person was injured.

Emergency services transported Jones to Saint Thomas Rutherford Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Carter Smith, a lecturer at Middle Tennessee State University, has a background in organized crime, gang activity and criminal justice.

"(A citizens') mental state isn't the only thing (officers) focus on," he said. "You still have to protect your life. An officer has to consider if they and everyone else in that situation gets home to family that day."

Smith served for over two decades in the criminal investigations division of the United States Army.

He said when officers respond to calls like the one involving Jones, officers have to factor in many things. If Jones was fighting mental health issues, "it is surprising to hear that he had a handgun," Smith said.

DOWNLOAD:The stories that matter to you the most, find them on the free DNJ app

Reach Brinley Hineman at bhineman@gannett.com and on Twitter @brinleyhineman.