A man shot and killed his girlfriend, then himself early Monday as an Orange County deputy investigating an earlier argument was outside the woman’s apartment writing a report, records show.

Deputies said Patrick Battistello, 50, killed his 24-year-old girlfriend, Kimberly Cuni, in her apartment on Meadow Bend Loop about 2 a.m. before taking his own life.

Orange County spokeswoman Cpl. Rose Silva said Tuesday it was too early to know whether the Sheriff’s Office Professional Standards Section will review what happened early Monday.

Deputy Edgar Castillo wrote that he got to the apartment about 1 a.m.

Cuni told him Battistello was drunk and they were arguing, but said they were not physically fighting.

Castillo said Cuni insisted that she did not want to press charges against her boyfriend. She told the deputy her boyfriend broke her phone during an argument and had a gun, but she just wanted deputies to leave, according to the incident report.

“It should be noted that while speaking to Kimberly I did not observe any visible injuries on her,” Castillo wrote.

Castillo and another deputy, Cpl. Michael Rowland, looked through the apartment and didn’t find anything dangerous, only a broken door jamb Cuni already told them about, the report said. The deputies went back outside.

Castillo wrote that he was waiting for a maintenance worker to come fix Cuni’s door when he heard three gunshots.

“Deputies immediately responded to surround the apartment building,” Castillo wrote. They tried to get Battistello to come outside but didn’t get a response, he wrote. Then they went into the apartment, where they found Cuni and Battistello dead.

The deaths are still under investigation.

glotan@orlandosentinel.com or 407-420-5774

Please consider supporting local journalism by purchasing a digital subscription to the Orlando Sentinel. Click here to get one today.

.galleries:after {

content: ”;

display: block;

background-color: #dd1300;

margin: 16px auto 0;

height: 5px;

width: 100px;

}

.galleries:before {

content: “Central Florida Crime Videos”;

display: block;

font: 700 23px/25px Belizio,Georgia,’Droid Serif’,serif;

text-align: center;

color: #1e1e1e;

}