UPDATE (2/5/2019 4:35 p.m.)

The Harrison County Sheriff’s Office released new information Tuesday afternoon about this deadly shooting incident in Clarksburg.

On February 4, three Clarksburg Police officers responded to 1727 Hamill Avenue in Clarksburg to serve a domestic violence petition on Robert Matz, 80. Once police arrived on scene, an officer began explaining the petition to Matz, at which time he became belligerent and argumentative, including stating several times that he would kill the petitioner, according to a press release.

During this time, an officer asked Matz if there were any guns in the home, and Matz told police on several occasions that there were not any, according to the sheriff’s office. At one point, Matz unsheathed a folding knife and threatened the officers, saying he would cut them, according to a press release. The sheriff’s office said the officers gave several verbal commands to de-escalate the situation, but Matz disregarded them and continued to curse and threaten the officers.

Matz then walked from the living room into an adjoining bedroom and retrieved a revolver, pointing it at the officers, according to a press release. The sheriff’s office said officers gave numerous verbal commands to Matz to drop the gun, but Matz continued to raise and point the gun at the officers multiple times. At that time, an officer fired his duty weapon, hitting Matz in the chest, killing him, according to a press release.

The sheriff’s office said the entire incident was recorded by two separate body cameras.

During a preliminary investigation, deputies have learned that there were other incidents involving Matz, which included domestic violence and threats toward law enforcement, the sheriff’s office said. Deputies also learned that Matz was prohibited from possessing a firearm because of a domestic violence conviction in 2011, according to a press release.

UPDATE (2/5/2019 11:45 a.m.)

The Clarksburg Police Department released new information on a fatal shooting on February 4 that involved an officer.

On Monday morning, members of the Clarksburg Police Department Patrol Division were serving a domestic violence protective order at 1727 Hamill Avenue, when they engaged with an armed and aggressive man inside the home, according to a press release.

During this incident, a Clarksburg Police officer fired his gun, killing the man, identified as Robert Matz, 80, according to the police department. The Harrison County Emergency Squad pronounced Matz dead.

The police department has not released the names of the officers involved in the incident. However, according to the press release, the officers involved have been placed on critical incident leave pending an investigation by the Harrison County Sheriff’s Office.

UPDATE (2/4/2019 12:17 p.m.)

A 80-year-old man has been shot and killed after an incident involving Clarksburg Police on Monday morning.

According to Harrison County Sheriff Robert Matheny, officers with the Clarksburg Police Department attempted to serve a domestic violence summons Robert Matz, 80, was shot and killed while members of the Clarksburg Police Department attempted to serve a domestic violence protective order at a residence located at 1727 Hamill Avenue in Clarksburg. A police officer shot and killed Matz when they were attempting to serve, Matheny said.

The Harrison County Sheriff’s Office is currently investigating this incident at the request of Clarksburg Police.

Stay with 12 News for the latest.

ORIGINAL (2/4/2019 11:57 a.m.)

Officers with the Clarksburg Police Department are currently investigating an incident on Hamill Avenue in Clarksburg.

The incident was originally reported as a shooting, according to 911 officials. The incident was reported at 10:17 a.m. on Monday.

The Clarksburg Fire Department and Harrison County Sheriff’s Office also responded and are still on scene with the Clarksburg Police Department at this time.

Stay with 12 News for the latest.