Updated: Feb. 15, 2019, 3:45 p.m.

The Rockford Police Department announced officer Tim Stec was involved in a traffic stop that ended with the death of Randy Pierson last week.

Stec was a 25-year veteran with the police department.

Police said Stec had fired shots after Piersen allegedly showed a gun during a traffic stop at Bypass 20 and Montague on Feb. 6. Police say Piersen then turned the gun on himself and died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The Winnebago County Integrity Task Force continues to investigate Pierson's death.

------

Updated: Feb. 7, 2019, 6:10 p.m.

Court records show a history of charges for Randy Pierson.

Pierson was identified as the man who allegedly shot himself to death Wednesday during a traffic stop at Bypass 20 and Montague. Police say he showed a gun during a traffic stop and died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

According to Minnesota court records, Pierson was indicted on 15 charges related to theft between Dec. 2015 and Nov. 2016. The Stearns County Attorney's Office says Pierson was scheduled for a sentencing hearing on Oct. 5, 2017, but failed to appear in court.

The attorney’s office says Pierson had been wanted on warrant since skipping the Oct. 5 hearing. Pierson pled guilty to 10 theft-by-swindling charges in 2017.

Pierson formerly owned Avon Marine, a Minnesota boating business, in central Minnesota. He had 14 open cases against him for crimes he allegedly committed between 2011 and 2016.

The death is being investigated by the Winnebago County Integrity Task Force. A spokesperson from the Winnebago County Integrity Task Force says they are familiar with Pierson's past charges.

------

Updated: Feb. 7, 2019, 12:55 p.m.

The Winnebago County Coroner's Office identified Randy Pierson, 56, as the man who died from Wednesday's traffic stop at Bypass 20 and Montague.

Before Pierson was identified, police say a suspect took his life after showing a handgun during a traffic stop Wednesday. Officers say the suspect produced the handgun during the traffic stop before an officer fired several rounds.

Pierson died from a gunshot wound, according to preliminary results from an autopsy. The coroner says Pierson was possibly from the Midwest region, but did not identify his hometown.

Pierson was pronounced dead after the coroner arrived to the scene on Wednesday.

The death is under investigation from the Winnebago County Integrity Task Force.

------

Updated Feb. 6, 2019, 3:30 p.m.

Rockford Police say an unidentified white man took his life after showing a handgun during a traffic stop Wednesday.

A Rockford officer pulled over a pick-up truck hauling a trailer just before 11:30 a.m. The truck was heading west on Bypass 20 near Montague Road in Rockford.

Police say the suspect produced the handgun during the traffic stop before the responding officer fired several rounds. The officer was not hurt, but transported to a local hospital by protocol.

The Winnebago County Integrity Task Force is investigating the death.

------

Updated: Feb. 6, 2019, 1:10 p.m.

Rockford Police Chief Dan O'Shea says a Rockford police officer opened fire during a traffic stop on Bypass 20 near Montague.

According to O'Shea, the suspect showed a handgun and later died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Police say an officer fired multiple shots during the stop, but the suspect died from the self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The officer, along with another Illinois State Police officer on scene, were not hurt. However, both were taken to a hospital as part of a protocol.

O'Shea says the suspect was pulled over for a traffic infraction, but could not confirm specifically which infraction.

The Integrity Task Force will take over the investigation and review video of the incident from a police car.

Police are asking drivers to avoid the area. Bypass 20 will remain closed for several hours while the investigation is ongoing.

----

Updated: Feb. 6, 2019, 12:20 p.m.

Rockford Police say a suspect died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound after a traffic stop on Bypass 20 west of Montague.

Police say during the course of the stop, the suspect pulled out a handgun, then the officer fired multiple rounds prior to the death.

Police say all information is preliminary and an investigation is ongoing.

-----

Published: Feb. 6, 2019, 12:05 p.m.

Police have blocked off the Montague Road exit heading west on Bypass 20.

Several police agencies have responded to the area.

23 News has a reporter on scene getting information. We will continue to update as more information becomes available.