A man was hospitalized in critical condition Friday after he was shot during a clash with police on the Lower East Side, officials said. (Theodore Parisienne for New York Daily News)

Cops shot and killed a knife-wielding man who tried to stab his lover Friday amid a long-running feud over a gender transition, police and a family member said.

Two officers fired five rounds at 32-year-old Joshua Williams, hitting him in the torso inside the apartment he shared with his husband Worth Williams on Cherry St. near Pike Slip on the Lower East Side, at the foot of the Manhattan Bridge.

Advertisement

(An injured person is removed from the scene) An armed man was pronounced dead after he was shot by Cops inside of 227 Cherry Street in Manhattan on Friday February 8, 2019. (Theodore Parisienne for New York Daily News)

A relative said the couple was fighting in recent months because Joshua Williams was undergoing hormone therapy to transition into a woman. Worth Williams, the relative said, was against the transition.

Tragedy struck when Worth Williams called cops Friday morning to say Joshua had attacked him with a knife.

Advertisement

When police arrived, they found Joshua Williams hiding in a closet. Cops did not handcuff him as they escorted him from the apartment.

“At this time he was calm and compliant, and the officers began to escort him towards the hallway,” said NYPD Chief of Department Terence Monahan.

Despite the allegation of violence that led them to the apartment in the first place, cops didn’t cuff Joshua Williams as they led him away, Monahan said.

Worth Williams told cops he had an order of protection against his husband — but the officers didn’t handcuff Joshua because they didn’t know if the order of protection was valid, Monahan explained.

Joshua’s next move took cops by surprise.

“Suddenly, the individual broke away from the officers, grabbed a large knife from the kitchen area, and ran toward the 911 caller [Worth Williams],” Monahan said.

“This happened in an instant, in a second,” Monahan said.

Knife in hand, Joshua Williams “immediately goes toward the domestic partner and begins stabbing … At that point the officers discharged their weapons.”

Advertisement

The shooting happened around 7 a.m. Officers rushed Joshua Williams to New York Presbyterian/Lower Manhattan Hospital, where he was declared dead about an hour later.

Worth Williams was taken to an area hospital to be treated for slash wounds to the right side of his face and his left shoulder. He was expected to survive.

Joshua Williams, who was fatally shot by police on Friday. (Facebook)

“They are painting my son as a real bad villain,” said Joshua’s father, Bronx resident Herbert Rembert.

“He had his issues,” Rembert said of his son, acknowledging that he suffered from mental illness. “But Joshua doesn’t have a violent streak in his body,” Rembert said. “I don’t know what happened, but I guarantee it was provoked.”

Worth Williams’ godson, Chris Bell, 31, said that if cops had cuffed Joshua Williams, he’d still be alive.

“They should have handcuffed him,” Bell said. “There was negligence on their part. There was a domestic violence situation. That’s a lawsuit.”

Advertisement

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

“The responding officers acted appropriately,” Monahan said. “They correctly followed the protocol of separating the parties involved, and interviewing each one to determine what had occurred.”

“A valid order of protection had not at that point been produced to the officers, and the officers had not yet determined if a crime had been committed,” Monahan said. “The subject was calm and compliant while being escorted by officers toward the hallway before suddenly reaching for the knife.”

Bell and Rembert said the couple had been married for 10 years. Bell said the pair began having problems when Joshua Williams began his hormone treatment, which Worth opposed.

Bell said Joshua Williams’ drug use and schizophrenia only made things worse. “The mix of cryrstal meth, hormones and schizophrenia was terrible,” Bell said. “When he was schizophrenic, he was a monster.”

Rembert and his wife, Lorna, are struggling with Joshua’s death.

Advertisement

“He was the best son that any parent could have,” said Lorna Rembert. “That’s how I would love him to be remembered. He had a good heart.”