District Attorney Robert Evans announced Wednesday that the Nash County Sheriff's deputies won't face charges related to the Feb. 9 fatal shooting of 28-year-old Jonathan Ramirez, The Rocky Mount Telegram reported.

Ramirez was killed during the early morning hours of Feb. 9 in the 1200 block of Maudis Road in Bailey after officers said they saw him getting out of a vehicle holding what appeared to be an AR-15 assault weapon.

Authorities said deputies were responding to an attempted sexual assault and Ramirez was identified as the suspect. Deputies confronted Ramirez. Sheriff Keith Stone says that's when Ramirez pulled out a weapon and deputies fired. Authorities say the deputies' body cameras weren't recording at the time.

In the video, at least 10 gunshots are heard as a deputy exits his vehicle. Only one deputy's body cam shows the shooting.

Jose and Frances Ramirez, the parents of Jonathan Ramirez, issued a written statement about the new developments.

"Our son Jonathan was a wonderful young man. He had a fiancé and a great career in which he had worked for seven years. He had a promising future and was loved and respected by all in his community. There is no indication that Jonathan pointed a gun at anyone. He would not point a gun at law enforcement. After all, he was in the front yard of his own home. Two trucks and a Tahoe came barreling up into the yard. There were no blue lights. It was not obvious that they were law enforcement. We are devastated and grieving the loss of our son. We are trying to understand why these tragic events occurred."

Several other deputies wh responded to the scene did not turn on their cameras until after shots were fired, according to Nash County officials.

Nash County Sheriff Keith Stone said the video showing the shooting corroborates the deputies' statements concerning the incident.

NO TITLE PROVIDED

The Rocky Mount Telegram reported that the District Attorney's office declined to release the state Bureau of Investigation's report on the shooting. The SBI says the report must be obtained through Evans' office. Stone says the deputies returned from administrative leave over a month ago.