Body camera footage from a recent deputy-involved shooting in Greenville County shows deputies' efforts to apprehend a gunman before fatally shooting him outside a mobile home.

The Greenville County Sheriff's Office released the footage Monday through its YouTube channel and the the video presentation included portions of multiple body camera videos, dashcam footage and a 911 recording.

Deputies went to 217 Murrell Road, Lot 48 in Greenville around 1:30 a.m. Feb. 10 in reference to a 911 call from a man claiming he was being poisoned, according to the Sheriff's Office.

Once they arrived, deputies heard a gunshot from inside the mobile home and retreated to find cover behind patrol vehicles, the body cameras show. A woman later called out to deputies to say she had been shot. After running back to the patrol vehicles, one deputy retrieved a rifle.

Moments later, Willie Jermaine Robinson, 34, stepped out of the home wielding a handgun.

He held his hands in the air outside of the home while deputies repeatedly told Robinson to drop the gun and get on the ground, the video shows. Robinson walked backwards away from the home and near patrol vehicles while deputies kept their firearms pointed at Robinson.

He is heard shouting "kill me" multiple times.

Deputies repeatedly said "We don't want to kill you" and "We're here to help" before Robinson fired two gunshots into the air. Deputies continued to negotiate while taking cover behind a nearby mobile home, video shows.

"Sir, just stay right there. We're here to help. We're here to help. We're here to help, I promise," one deputy is heard saying. "We don't want to kill you. Sir, we don't want to kill you. Stay right there. Stay right there, sir."

When Robinson turned toward the deputies, refusing to comply with their demands, he pointed his gun at them and deputies fired at Robinson, striking him at least once, the video shows.

One deputy is heard shouting "this ain’t worth it" before Robinson turned and was shot. At least seven gunshots could be heard in the video.

Deputies then ran to Robinson to secure the scene and handcuff him. They brought a woman out from the mobile home and had her sit on a chair on the front porch while other deputies went inside to ensure the area was safe, video shows.

The woman had been shot in the leg. She was in a relationship with Robinson and her injuries were not life-threatening, according to the Sheriff's Office.

She made her way out of the front door as deputies ran to her after Robinson was shot.

"Multiple head shots. Looks to be 10-7 (out of service) but he's still breathing," one deputy is heard saying while communicating with dispatchers.

About six minutes elapsed between when the first two deputies arrived on scene and when deputies fatally shot Robinson.

Robinson had called 911 to ask for "police and ambulance," according to the 911 call. A dispatcher asked questions about why Robinson needed help, and he replied that he was being poisoned and bullied. A dispatcher called Robinson back several times to get him to answer questions.

"I feel like I've been poisoned. They were putting stuff in my food and my drink," Robinson said in the 911 call. "I'm tired of the bullying. I'm tired of it. That's just what it is."

A handgun Robinson was believed to have used was recovered from the scene.

The State Law Enforcement Division is still investigating the shooting. The 13th Circuit Solicitor's Office is also still investigating.

The deputies involved have been cleared through internal investigations and are back on duty, said Lt. Ryan Flood, a spokesman for the Sheriff's Office.

"Consistent with all officer-involved shootings, we do not draw any conclusions about whether deputies actions were consistent with policies and in accordance with the law until the investigation has been thoroughly completed," Flood said in the YouTube video.

This was the first "critical incident community briefing" published by the Sheriff's Office since a new program was implemented in November to publicize portions of video and 911 calls from every deputy-involved shooting.