Warning: Vallejo Police has now released graphic body-cam footage.

Willie "Willie Bo" James McCoy, was fatally shot by six police officers in Vallejo, California on February 9th.

Vallejo Police has now released graphic 30-minute body-cam footage of the fatal incident, showing officers shooting at the then 20-year-old aspiring rapper an apparent 25 times.

The involved officers — Collin Eaton, Bryan Glick, Jordon Patzer, Anthony Romero-Cano, Mark Thompson, and Ryan McMahon —were placed on administrative leave. All six officers have returned to work full duty.

READ: California Rapper Shot Dead By Six Police Officers At Taco Bell Drive-Thru

McCoy appeared to begin scratching his shoulder before all six officers started firing into the vehicle. He was shot in the face, throat, shoulders, chest, and arm. The Bay Area resident died at the scene.

In the video, one officer can be heard saying, “I’m going to pull him out and snatch his ass.”

A Taco Bell employee called 9-1-1 to report an unresponsive person in a car outside the restaurant's drive-thru window. Police arrived on the scene to find McCoy asleep in the Mercedes-Benz with a firearm on his lap.

Police fired multiple rounds at McCoy, who was sleeping in his car while in the drive-thru of a local Taco Bell. The incident took place when the Vallejo Police Department received a call from a Taco Bell employee saying that McCoy was “hunched over” behind the wheel of his car. Initially, it had been reported that according to authorities, when police arrived on the scene for the welfare check, they found that the car’s transmission was in drive and the doors locked, as McCoy was unresponsive with a handgun in his lap.

“The driver began to suddenly move and looked at the uniformed patrol officers,” police said in a statement. “Officers gave the driver several commands to put his hands up. The driver did not comply and instead moved his hands downward toward the firearm.”

His family had disagreed with the police's account.

“Nothing in that video warranted those officers shooting Willie McCoy dozens of times,” Burris said at a news conference, according to a report in USA Today.

They are reportedly planning to file a civil rights lawsuit against the officers and police department.

The VPD and the Solano County District Attorney's Office have launched an investigation of the incident.

Source: USA Today