Two Redding police officers' actions were justified when they fired on and killed a homeless man, Phayvanh Inthavong, in February, according to an independent review conducted by the Shasta County District Attorney's Office.

According to the District Attorney's review, "Under certain circumstances, reasonable force includes deadly force ... when the officer honestly and reasonably believes he or she is in danger of death or great bodily injury."

Officers may also use deadly force if other officers or members of the public "are at risk of great bodily injury or death," the review said.

The District Attorney's review, which was released late Monday, said the office had concluded "that the shooting was lawful."

The incident occurred on Feb. 11 after a standoff that occurred in the 1200 block of Arizona Street.

Redding police had been called just after 3:30 p.m. about a suspicious-looking man who was armed with a handgun, pushing a baby stroller and acting irrationally.

More:CHP looking for witnesses to road rage shooting on I-5 near Redding

After being approached by a Redding police officer driving on Churn Creek Road in a patrol car, Inthavong ran away, jumping over numerous fences in the process.

No one was in the baby stroller.

Another Redding police officer who saw the suspect running got out of his patrol car, drew a weapon and ordered Inthavong to the ground. But the suspect kept running.

A California Highway Patrol officer in a helicopter spotted Inthavong entering the back door of a home at 1230 Arizona St., the District Attorney's summary said.

More:Redding council may ask Gov. Newsom for help with city's homelessness 'crisis'

The five people in the house said Inthavong "acted aggressively and irrationally." They were able to escape through the front and rear doors.

After a standoff with the police officers who were outside, one officer reported the suspect had a gun. Inthavong was told to drop the gun and come outside, but didn't comply.

The report said Inthavong eventually pointed a small handgun directly at one of the officers, who dropped for cover. Two other Redding Police officers at the scene — Russell Veilleaux and Brian Berg — shot at Inthavong, who was hit by one of the bullets and killed.

Officers said they found an unloaded small black semiautomatic handgun next to his body.

"Under the totality of the circumstances of this case, the officers' use of deadly force was not unreasonable," the District Attorney's statement said.

A toxicological analysis of Inthavong's blood indicated the presence of methamphetamine and marijuana, the District Attorney's statement said.

Inthavong had a long criminal history in Shasta County and had been living on the streets, the review said. He had been convicted for sexual battery a week before the standoff, which prohibited him from legally possessing a firearm, the statement said.

More:UPDATE: Police shoot, kill man after standoff in south Redding

More:Police ID man shot and killed in Monday's police standoff in south Redding

Michele Chandler covers city government and housing issues for the Redding Record Searchlight/USA Today Network. Follow her on Twitter at @MChandler_RS, call her at 530-225-8344 or email her at michele.chandler@redding.com. Please support our entire newsroom's commitment to public service journalism by subscribing today.