Corrections & Clarifications: A previous version of this article incorrectly reported that Casey Wells was convicted in 2003 of an attempt to commit a dangerous drug violation charge and served prison time.

Newly released police documents lay out how a naked man who appeared to be praying and doing yoga poses on a Phoenix street in February died in a hospital bed two days later after being repeatedly shocked with a stun gun.

A report from the Phoenix Police Department obtained via a public records request details how officers approached 40-year-old Casey Wells on Feb. 4, near the 3800 block of West Salter Drive, near 35th Avenue and Deer Valley Road, after numerous homeowners called 911 out of concern for his safety and others.

Officer James Arnold approached Wells, who appeared to be praying to the sun while speaking incoherently, and tried talking to him but was largely ignored, according to the police report. When Arnold asked him why he was naked, Wells responded "I came into this world naked, and that's how God intends me to go out of this world," records say.

Arnold tried explaining that Wells couldn't be naked in the middle of the street and needed to cover himself up. When Arnold said he was going to handcuff Wells while they sorted the situation out, Wells looked to him and said, "You're not cuffing me."

The officer asked Wells if he planned on fighting him, to which Wells reiterated he wouldn't be handcuffed. Reports say Arnold decided to hold off on detaining Wells until back-up officers arrived.

Sgt. Robert Rodarme arrived shortly after and the two agreed to handcuff Wells despite his protests.

That's when a fight ensued.

Officer's first use of Taser in 16 years

A police report says Wells immediately tensed up when each officer grabbed one of his arms — which were still raised toward the sun. They tried to slowly move his arms down while calmly speaking him to "de-escalate" the situation to no avail. When Wells continued to resist being handcuffed, Arnold tried sweeping his legs while maintaining his hold on his arm.

But the maneuver didn't work.

Wells managed to break away from both officers' grips and punched Arnold in the face, causing the officer's upper lip to swell. Arnold responded by embracing Wells in a "bear hug" but was unable to bring him to the ground.

Wells was able to free his right arm and balled his hand into a fist before Arnold struck him in the face with his elbow. Wells spat blood at Rodarme, who had removed his stun gun before re-holstering it when he couldn't obtain a clear shot.

Officer Joseph Seaquist arrived as Arnold and Rodarme fought to restrain Wells and rushed over to help them, documents say. During an interview after the struggle, Seaquist said he tried controlling Wells' legs, whose kicking was like "watching an MMA fighter on the mat."

Seaquist said he crossed Wells' ankles and pushed his feet into his rear end before Wells extended his legs back — pushing Seaquist back in a show of "unusual strength."

The resistance was enough for Seaquist to draw his stun gun and fire two prongs into Wells' back where he was hit with a charge several times.

"This is the first time in 16 years that I've ever had to use the Taser," Seaquist said during his police interview, according to the report.

A report showed Seaquist's Taser stun device was deployed five times — each lasting about five seconds — within the span of about 90 seconds.

Wells initially tensed up, but continued to fight back against the officers. Seaquist fired his second cartridge into Wells with little effect.

Still, it was enough for Arnold finally handcuff Wells.

Then, his skin began to change color.

'He's turning blue, I'm not getting a pulse'

Officers Travis Funston and Frank Long had arrived to help restrain Wells when Long announced, "He's turning blue, he's turning blue. I'm not getting a pulse."

The officers removed the handcuffs and rolled Wells over onto his back to begin chest compressions until Phoenix firefighters arrived.

Wells was rushed to a HonorHealth Deer Valley Medical Center, where doctors were able to restart his heart but told officers Wells had suffered irreversible brain damage and likely wouldn't survive.

Wells died two days later, on Feb. 6.

A toxicology report showed Wells tested positive for methamphetamine and ecstasy, though an official cause of death remained pending.

When he was interviewed after the confrontation, Arnold said he didn't hear Wells say anything about needing medical attention, nor did he see any officers choke him or restrict his blood flow.

Police found the clothing Wells had discarded further down the street, where they also found his wallet, over $3,300 in cash, a glass pipe and a baggie of methamphetamine.

Officers also discovered this wasn't the first time Wells acted strangely while nude in a public place. Records mention "several previous incidents," including one in September 2017, during which Wells was at a bus stop near the 3500 block of West Grovers Avenue "dancing around with no clothes on (and) high on some type of drugs."

Officers interviewed numerous witnesses after the encounter who said they saw police speak with Wells for about 10 minutes before they attempted to restrain him, reports say. One witness said she saw an officer jump on Wells' back, which resulted in Wells carrying him "like a sack of potatoes."

Another witness said she saw Wells performing "naked yoga," with his arms outstretched to the sky and called police out of concern for the neighborhood children who would soon return home from school. She said she heard a "thump" as officers brought Wells to the ground, which she believes was his head striking the ground.

The report confirmed police body cameras recorded the encounter, though The Arizona Republic is still working to obtain the footage.

History of mental illness

Police contacted Wells' mother, Leiann Stickney, who explained that her son had struggled with drug abuse for some time.

Wells' aunt, Connie Brenton, confirmed to police that her nephew had used methamphetamine "on and off" for roughly 10 years was on probation for his drug use.

Brenton also said their family had a history of mental illness, noting that Wells' maternal uncle murdered his grandmother and two other people in Prescott in January 2015. The uncle was later diagnosed with schizophrenia and incarcerated at the Arizona State Hospital.

She said she believed her nephew was also "seriously mentally ill" despite several physicians finding no mental health disorder other than attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.

Stickney told police she confronted her son about his drug use a day prior to his confrontation with the police, where she told him he better not be using again or "I would kick his ass myself."

She then said it was too late and that he had "already done it himself."

Stickney could not be reached for comment.

Reach the reporter Perry Vandell at 602-444-2474 or perry.vandell@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @PerryVandell.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.