A student taken Monday from a branch campus of Ohio State University and her suspected abductor were killed after a police chase ended in an Interstate 71 shooting in Oldham County, Kentucky State Police said.

Skylar Williams, a 20-year-old student at Ohio State’s Mansfield campus, died after being shot by Ty’rell Pounds, 24, who in turn was shot by a Kentucky trooper late Monday afternoon.

Both were from Mansfield, which is between Columbus and Cleveland.

Law enforcement and Ohio State officials said Williams had been abducted from campus late Monday morning. Pounds was named as a suspect.

The latest:Ohio State student fatally shot by ex-boyfriend, not trooper, police say

Here's what we know so far:

What happened at Ohio State in Mansfield?

Williams was abducted at gunpoint just before noon Monday at Ohio State's Mansfield campus, school officials said.

The campus is near Interstate 71 between Cleveland and Columbus, about 290 miles northeast of Louisville.

Who is Skylar Williams?

Williams was standing in a campus parking lot about 11:45 a.m. Monday when she was approached by a man she knew, who was later identified as Pounds, according to a news release from the school's Department of Public Safety.

According to reports, Pounds displayed a handgun and forced her into a vehicle and fled.

Ohio State President Michael Drake said Tuesday that the school suffered a tragic loss with Williams' death.

"This senseless and shocking incident has left our campus shaken," he said in a statement, which noted that additional counseling services are available to members of the Ohio State community.

Background:Ohio State student Skylar Williams, ex-boyfriend killed in Kentucky

Who is Ty'rell Pounds?

Pounds was named as Williams' suspected abductor, according to police.

A police report said Pounds stole a vehicle at gunpoint from his roommate in Mansfield. Kentucky State police on Tuesday news release said troopers in Kentucky later pursued a vehicle with a similar description.

Kentucky State Police said Wednesday that Pounds shot Williams before he was shot by a state trooper.



Background:Two people dead after police pursuit and shooting in Oldham County

How did Ty'rell Pounds and Skylar Williams know each other?

Mansfield Police records indicate the two had a troubled relationship. In a January, Williams reported that Pounds was her ex-boyfriend and that he pulled up behind her in a car while she was at a gas station. She fled inside and waited for him to leave.

She asked police to make a report of the incident, according to the records, as she said Pounds had a protection order against her. The Courier Journal couldn't immediately find a protection order in online records Tuesday afternoon.

Court records in Richland County, Ohio, also show the two had a pending child custody case.

Their child has been located, is safe and is with family members, according to KSP.

What happened in Oldham County?

Oldham County Police dispatch records and KSP's news release show a pursuit originated in Gallatin County, about 60 miles northeast of Jefferson County.

A 911 caller said they saw a man force a distressed woman into a vehicle at a gas station just before 3:30 p.m., according to KSP.

Commissioner Richard Sanders said Wednesday that the witness saw Williams mouth "help me" and possibly saw the man with a weapon.

The caller told police they saw a dark-colored Dodge Caravan speed off toward I-71 South.

Troopers saw a vehicle matching that description in Henry County, but the vehicle didn't stop for a trooper who tried to pull the driver over.

That kicked off an approximately 20-mile pursuit that ended when Pounds got off the interstate at exit 14, attempted to re-enter the highway and was stopped by Trooper Joey Brown, Sanders said.

The commissioner said he did not know if Pounds had a destination in mind. He also said that at the time, troopers weren't aware of the abduction in Ohio.

Timeline:How an Ohio State kidnapping ended in a deadly shooting in Kentucky

How did the Oldham County shooting unfold?

Sanders said Brown was able to stop Pounds as he attempted to get back on the interstate by using his car to spin the van 180 degrees.

Sanders said another police vehicle then hit the van, which crashed into Brown's vehicle, leaving the vehicles' driver's side doors side by side.

While KSP said Tuesday that the trooper shot Pounds after he heard a gunshot coming from within the vehicle, Sanders said Wednesday that it's unclear when exactly Pounds fired his weapon.

One or two shots came from his gun before it jammed, the commissioner said.

Seeing Pounds with a gun, Brown fired several bullets into the driver's side of the van, some of which hit Pounds despite his bullet-resistant vest. Pounds died at the scene.

Sanders said forensic testing showed that a bullet that came from Pounds' gun went through Williams' left arm and lodged in her torso, though he's not sure when she was shot.

She was bleeding profusely as Brown used a tourniquet to try and stop the blood, Sanders said, though she later died at the University of Louisville Hospital.

No officers were injured. Brown, the only trooper to fire a gun, is on administrative leave until the end of KSP's investigation, which is being handled by the agency's Critical Incident Response Team.

Lou Whitmire of the Mansfield News Journal contributed reporting.