On Saturday, a nail salon in a strip mall in Hazlehurst didn't open at its normal time.

Selvales Bankes, who manages the Little Caesars Pizza next door to Nail Envy, thought it was odd. Every day for the past three years, she had seen and talked to the owner of the salon, a man named Nam Quang Le.

Bankes didn't know it at the time, but she'd never see Le again.

Later that day, Banks saw the news — there had been a 12-hour standoff between law enforcement and an armed man holding hostages inside a home in Clinton.

The standoff ended in tragedy. Four people were found dead of gunshot wounds. Two children were allowed to leave the house unharmed.

The suspect, identified as 34-year-old Le, died later at an area hospital. He was also shot to death.

Who are the victims, suspect?

Bankes said she knew most of the victims, who worked with Le from time to time at Nail Envy, located near the intersection of Interstate 55 and Mississippi 28.

Hinds County Coroner Sharon Grisham-Stewart identified the victims: Lan Thi My Van, 30; Le Thi My Van, 28; Cho Thi Van, 65; and Phung Minh Le, about 28.

Bankes said she didn't know the others well, but she and Le often talked about the weather, their businesses and kids.

Story continues after gallery

"He was a good guy. A family man," Bankes said. "He was well known and loved in the area .... That's why it was so shocking."

People have left flowers outside Nail Envy, Bankes said.

"He's going to be missed," she said.

Neighbors watched the 12-hour standoff

Forty-four miles away, someone had also left roses, bottles of water, candles and incense — some burned, some protected from the damp in a plastic bag — outside Le's home in Clinton.

It sits in a quiet subdivision, surrounded by well-kept homes, near Natchez Trace Parkway.

The house, fenced in by a perimeter of yellow and red crime scene tape, is trashed. Windows, which neighbors said were destroyed by officers with battering rams, have been boarded up with wood. What appears to be a bullet hole mars the passenger-side window of a black Honda parked in the driveway.

A single pink and green child's rain boot sits in the front yard, amid a pile of debris.

Fay Blair lives across the street from Le's home. Horrified, but unable to look away, she became a front-row spectator to the fatal standoff that began around 2 a.m. Saturday.

Blair said her neighbors kept to themselves and she didn't know them well. She often saw two young girls playing in the front yard with an older woman, maybe a grandmother, or just a family friend, she thought. They always waved to her.

The women who lived across the street seemed shy and their English was limited, Blair said. Le was the only one who ever said hello. She spoke to him a few times because he liked to step outside to smoke. Blair knew that they were Vietnamese and Le had moved to Mississippi from Chicago.

He and the others in his household seemed quiet, but nice, she said.

"I'm not going to say he was a hoodlum or bad guy who deserved what he got," Blair said.

Blair and a friend, Aliyah Carson, who is staying with Blair's family, witnessed the dramatic standoff play out from their office window. They stayed low, kept the lights off, not wanting to attract attention or catch a stray bullet.

'...the kids have nobody. They have nobody left.'

Some scenes won't stop replaying in their minds.

For example, when Clinton police first arrived on scene, authorities said they were responding to a call about a domestic disturbance. Carson said she saw the officers crouching behind a white car in the driveway, exchanging gunfire with someone inside the house.

Or, how for hours during the standoff, officers used a megaphone to try to contact the people inside the home, only to be met with silence, Carson said.

Around 9:30 a.m., several hours into the standoff, the kids were allowed to leave the house, Blair said. They were still dressed in their pajamas, clutching stuffed animals, she said. The girls ran to the police. Blair cried with relief.

"What hurts the most is the kids have nobody. They have nobody left," Blair said.

'I have my Bible and I pray'

The standoff continued until about 2 p.m., when Blair and Carson saw some of the final moments of Le's life through a busted-out front window. For a long time, he had been sitting in front of a shelf near a window, they said, while smoking and drinking liquor.

At one point, Le bent down and made a sudden move, Blair said. A "sniper" laying in Blair's front yard shot once and Le collapsed, she said. He was brought out on a stretcher.

Mississippi Bureau of Investigation spokesman Capt. John Poulos declined to confirm whether Le was killed by officers. Poulos said MBI is investigating the incident.

There's no question who shot Le in Blair and Carson's minds. They saw what happened with their own eyes and have video to back it up.

Later, officers went inside the house.

"You see them coming out with body, after body, after body," Blair said. "....I have my Bible and I pray. I just beg the Lord to let their souls rest in peace."

Contact Alissa Zhu at azhu@gannett.com. Follow @AlissaZhu on Twitter.