An hours-long standoff at a Poway home ended after the suspect apparently killed himself.

The San Diego County Sheriff’s Department tweeted shortly before 7 a.m. Sunday that deputies were handling an incident involving a “suicidal,armed/barricaded subject” in the 14000 block of Poway Road.

The suspect had been detained by sheriff’s deputies on Saturday and taken to Palomar Medical Center Poway due to mental health issues, NBC San Diego reported.

Deputies temporarily confiscated firearms and ammunition the man had at his home to prevent him from harming himself, and he was released Saturday night or early Sunday morning.

Then, deputies were called again for a reported disturbance between the man and his wife, sheriff’s Lt. Christopher Collier said. The man had gotten his hands on a gun, and deputies headed to his apartment around 3:15 a.m.The standoff was taking place at an apartment attached to a business, Sheriff’s Lt. Dave Perkins said.

Poway Road was blocked off between Garden Road and Sudan Road during the incident.

“No one is currently in danger but please remain clear of the area,” the Sheriff’s Department said in its initial tweet Sunday morning.

In another tweet around 10 a.m., the Sheriff’s Department said SWAT and crisis negotiation teams were at the scene. The department also urged media and others not to post pictures or video that could endanger deputies.”Please do not put the lives of deputies at risk by posting video or photos of their positions LIVE on TV, web or social media during the incident,” the department said.

Collier said crisis negotiators were able to establish communication with the man, and spent several hours trying to convince him to surrender.

Just before noon on Sunday, crisis negotiators and SWAT deputies determined the suspect had shot himself, Collier said. Deputies entered the residence and found the man’s body.

No one else was hurt. No identifying information was immediately available on the suspect.

Email: news@pomeradonews.com

UPDATES:

This article was originally published at 1:55 p.m. and has been updated with additional details.