Authorities found the body of a 47-year-old man, who had been reported missing days earlier, in an abandoned building in rural Copiah County early Friday morning.

Joseph Zattani of Terry has been charged with capital murder in the slaying of Stoney Dale Qualls. Corey Harris, of Florence, who was described as a person of interest in Qualls' disappearance, was hospitalized after being shot by at least one Rankin County deputy Thursday night.

Hinds County Coroner Sharon Grisham-Stewart said he died Friday.

Family members last heard from Qualls early Wednesday morning. He called around 6:15 a.m. to tell them he had helped a stranded driver — later identified by Hinds County Sheriff Victor Mason as Harris — who had run off the road near his Raymond home, authorities said.

Mason said Qualls gave Harris a ride to Byram.

Qualls never returned and the Mississippi Department of Public Safety issued an alert.

Major. Pete Luke, with the Hinds County Sheriff's Office, said Qualls' Dodge Ram pickup was found burned on Bethesda Road in Copiah County on Thursday.

Just after 6 p.m. on Thursday is when Harris was shot. Sheriff Bryan Bailey on Facebook said deputies were investigating a report of a wanted person on Moncure Road. The suspect did not obey deputies and displayed a weapon, he said.

"Deputies were forced to take action and used deadly force to stop the threat," Bailey wrote in the post.

Harris was hospitalized at the University of Mississippi Medical Center.

Qualls' body was discovered the next morning. An autopsy will be done to determine his cause of death, Luke said.

The Mississippi Bureau of Investigations is investigating the officer-involved shooting.

Jesse Qualls identified himself as Stoney Qualls' son in an emotional video posted to Facebook Friday morning.

"They found my father and they said he might have went down swinging," said the young man, who was visibly fighting back tears. "People who know Stoney, you know how he is. He ain't going down without a fight."

Jesse Qualls said he plans to finish college, like his father wanted him to.

He asked people to keep to keep his family in their prayers, and said his relatives want to be left alone as they grieve.

Felicia Dorsey said she worked with Stoney Qualls at Ameristar Casino in Vicksburg for 6½ years.

"He was so sweet. He was very lovable. He liked to joke around," Dorsey said. "He was an all-around good guy."

Dorsey said she was saddened to hear what happened to her former supervisor.

"It's awful," she said. "He was trying to do a good deed and to have this happen to him — but for what?"

Qualls loved his family, she said.

"He talked about his son and his daughter all the time," Dorsey said. "...And he loved his wife."