PELAHATCHIE, MS (WLBT) - A man involved in a standoff with multiple law enforcement agencies in Pelehatchie has died.

Rankin County Coroner David Ruth identified the man as 31-year-old Pierre Woods. He died of multiple gunshot wounds.

Law enforcement officials responded to the standoff inside a home on Clayton Street and Dillard Avenue in Pelahatchie.

The man inside the home was transported by ambulance to the hospital, but later died from his injuries. Residents in the area say the suspect had mental issues.

Suspect in Pelahatchie standoff taken to hospital; Source: WLBT

Suspect in Pelahatchie standoff taken to hospital; Source: WLBT

Rankin County Sheriff’s Department and Pelahatchie Police Department had crews set up outside the home.

People in surrounding homes were evacuated and taken to a local community center.

According to Pelahatchie Police Chief Joe Daughtry, when police arrived the man inside the home began firing shots. They tried to negotiate with the man, who was inside the home. Police say he was armed with a handgun.

Around 12:33 p.m., at least four gunshots were heard, lots of screaming and the smell of tear gas filled the area.

Chief Daughtry said the suspect was yelling vulgarities at officers and was very defiant. Officials tried to negotiate with him for over an hour.

Rankin County Sheriff Bryan Bailey and Pelahatchie PD Chief Daughtry held a press conference and explained the decision to use lethal force.

WATCH LIVE: Pelahatchie police hold press briefing after standoff ends in gunfire>>https://buff.ly/2Xaj5Cr Posted by WLBT 3 On Your Side on Monday, February 18, 2019

They said less lethal force (gas) was used but the man came out of the house, armed, in a threatening manner. That is when officers used deadly force.

VIEWER VIDEO: Gunfire rains down during Pelahatchie standoff

Pelahatchie Mayor Ryshonda Beechem released a statement regarding the shooting. In it she says, “Town of Pelahatchie: This is a sad and unfortunate situation. It is never easy to hear about or witness the loss of a life regardless of the circumstances. However it’s best to let cooler heads prevail until all the facts are in.”

“My thoughts and prayers are with the family, the officers and everyone involved," she continues. "Please keep our town lifted in prayer.”

Our crew witnessed one man being placed inside a police car. It is unclear how he is related to the situation.

WATCH LIVE: Stand-off happening now in Pelahatchie>>https://buff.ly/2Xaj5Cr Posted by WLBT 3 On Your Side on Monday, February 18, 2019

According to Chief Daughtery, the scene is secure and an investigation is underway.

MBI is investigating this officer-involved shooting and per policy, will not identify the officers involved.

This comes just days after four people were killed in a hostage situation in Clinton.

Copyright 2019 WLBT. All rights reserved.