Relatives of a man fatally shot by Carrollton police Saturday evening claim that officers did not try to de-escalate the situation with the man, who they say was suffering a mental-health episode.

An officer shot Sterling Durant Humbert, 28, after an attempted traffic stop led to a short pursuit. Officials have said he was advancing on the police and refused to drop a gun.

Advertisement

"Carrollton Police Officers are trained in de-escalation techniques and employ them daily," police Chief Derick D. Miller said in a written statement Wednesday afternoon. "Unfortunately, there are some situations such as this one that are tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving where de-escalation is impossible."

Sterling Humbert, 28, died Feb. 23 after a disputed encounter with Carrollton police. (Lee Merritt)

But attorney Lee Merritt, who said the family had retained him to represent them in a planned federal civil-rights lawsuit, issued a statement earlier Wednesday that said officers could have avoided using lethal force.

Merritt wrote that Humbert, a former soldier who was honorably discharged, developed an addiction after he started "self-medicating" with drugs and had "occasional run-ins with law enforcement." Because of this, Merritt said, police were aware that Humbert had paranoid schizophrenia.

Advertisement

Police did not say if they knew of Humbert's mental health condition when they responded Saturday.

Breaking News Get the latest breaking news from North Texas and beyond. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT

During a recent schizophrenic episode, a family member called Carrollton police to Humbert's apartment, where Merritt said they used unnecessary force, including bringing "AR-15s and heavy munition" while belittling his mother for "babying" the man. Police did not comment on this incident.

On Saturday, Merritt said, police shot Humbert immediately after he got out of his vehicle holding what appeared to be a weapon.

Advertisement

Miller's statement offered a different account of the confrontation.

Officers attempted to stop Humbert, who had outstanding warrants for drug possession, but saw that he was holding a gun as they neared his vehicle, Miller said. He then drove off and the officers gave chase.

When Humbert stopped soon after, he "immediately jumped out of the driver seat and unmistakably pointed a handgun at our officers while simultaneously closing the distance in a combative manner," Miller said.

Advertisement

The officers fired at Humbert when he refused to drop the gun and kept advancing toward them, Miller said. The chief described video of the incident as "disturbing" and said he would not release it to avoid tainting the grand-jury process.

Advertisement

"One of our officers was forced to do something that every cop prays that they will never have to do. He was forced to take a human life in order to save his own life and the life of his partner," Miller said. "We could have easily lost one of our officers Saturday night."

The officers involved in the shooting were uninjured and have been placed on routine administrative leave. Their names have not been released.