What to Know A Boston police officer was shot after they pulled a vehicle over in the city's Roxbury neighborhood.

The driver, who was the sole occupant of the vehicle, opened fire and exchanged "several" rounds of gunfire.

The officer was rushed to Boston Medical Center with non-life threatening injuries. The driver died after he fled the scene.

A Boston police officer was shot and the gunman has died after they exchanged "several" rounds of gunfire early Friday in the city's Roxbury neighborhood.

Just after 2:20 a.m., officers pulled a vehicle over at 102 Gerard St. and the driver, 36-year-old Kasim Kahrim of Dorchester, opened fire on the officers, Police Commissioner William Gross said in a press conference.

"During that motor vehicle stop the suspect exchange of gunfire with the Boston police officers resulting in an officer being shot several times," said Gross.

The suspect's vehicle fled the scene and was later found at 90 George St., where the driver was found dead in the car.

Kahrim, who was the sole occupant in the vehicle and a firearm was recovered from his vehicle, according to Gross.

BREAKING: Maze of police tape blocking off several steeets in Boston in area of Allerton Street. Very active scene right now. Police say one officer shot, non life threatening injuries, taken to area hospital. We will be on scene following details. @NBC10Boston pic.twitter.com/481V6xkm6Q — Katelyn Flint NBC10 Boston (@KFlintNBCBoston) February 22, 2019

The officer was shot in the upper torso and was taken to Boston Medical Center with non-life-threatening injuries.

Officials have not publicly named the officer but said they had been with the department for one or two years.

Suffolk County District Attorney Rachael Rollins released a statement on the shooting.

"I hope for his full recovery, and my thoughts are with his family at home and his brothers and sisters in law enforcement. I also want to express my deep sadness and sympathies for the family and loved ones of the man whose life was lost. They, too, are undoubtedly in shock at circumstances beyond their control," Rollin said.

The NBC10 Boston Investigators learned Kahrim had served a sentence for illegal possession of a loaded gun until three months ago.

Several streets in the area of Allerton Street were blocked off for the investigation.

Investigators with the Boston Police Department and the Suffolk district attorney's office are actively searching for witnesses and any surveillance footage of the shooting.

Anyone who may have witnessed the shooting or who has information is urged to contact 1-800-494-TIPS.

The investigation is ongoing.