Salinas police fatally shot a woman during a standoff in East Salinas Friday afternoon.

Police say the shooting occurred while officers were on scene with a 20-year-old woman barricaded in a vehicle. She was the only occupant, police say.

No officers were injured.

They were called out at about 11 a.m. Friday to the 1000 block of E. Laurel Drive for a disturbance, said Adele Fresé, chief of the Salinas Police Department.

They learned the woman "had threatened another adult woman inside of her home" with "something likened to a weapon" and then left the home, Fresé said.

Officers found the woman barricaded inside of a vehicle in front of a home and began communicating with her.

Salinas' hostage-negotiation team was called out and communicated with her, but it was intermittent, Fresé said. The team was called out because it specializes in de-escalation, she said.

"We'd been speaking with her for some time," Fresé said. "She had at least one weapon, a handgun, at least one if not more."

Monterey County Behavioral Health staff were also called out because the communications were sporadic with the woman.

At one point, she brandished a gun, Fresé said.

Two or three police officers opened fire, and the woman died shortly afterward, Fresé said.

The officers who opened fire have been placed on administrative leave as the District Attorney's Office investigates.

Nearby resident Julieta Vargas was outside with her kids when the shots began. She said she heard about 10 shots and shortly after that, police showed up and shut down her block.

The Monterey County District Attorney's Office will be taking over the investigation, police said. DA Jeannine Pacioni responded to the scene.

Fresé said she will release the names of the officers involved as soon as possible.

"It's always a tragic experience for everyone — her family, the officers involved, the support personnel. This whole street," Fresé said. "Hearing shots fired is very upsetting for everyone."

Salinas firefighters were called to the same address on E. Laurel Drive at about 11:15 a.m. for a medical call. They were told to stage, aka to wait until police can determine the scene is safe for paramedics and firefighters.

Subscription Panel

Fire's response was likely related to the standoff, Fresé said, though she had not been aware of the call previously.

This is the second officer-involved shooting to occur in Salinas this year.

One month ago to the day, police opened fire on Guadalupe Aguirre Espinoza, 38, after he brandished a replica gun at officers outside the Safeway store on Constitution Boulevard.

He survived after officers fired their handguns as well as non-lethal rounds, police have said.

They'd been called out after Espinoza brandished a gun at an employee and customer and left the store. The employee had told him to leave because he'd tried to steal a cart full of alcohol from the store.

Espinoza pleaded guilty to brandishing and theft charges Feb. 14.

The investigation into the officers' conduct is ongoing, Pacioni has said.

Salinas police investigated their officer-involved shootings until June 2016, when the DA took over to increase transparency and public trust as recommended by a Department of Justice report on officer-involved shootings in Salinas.