Otis Moore, the cocaine kingpin turned prosecution witness, who was found shot in the mouth in front of the Chicago Heights police station, committed suicide, an autopsy requested by his family confirmed Thursday.

Despite the finding by the county medical examiner's office, the family's suspicions that Moore was murdered deepened after revelations that he was wearing a recording device as part of a federal drug investigation when he died.

Advertisement

An initial medical report compiled shortly after Moore died Monday night had ruled the death a suicide, but Moore's family did not believe the finding because of his ties to one of the biggest police corruption cases in Chicago Heights history.

"I don't believe my son committed suicide," said his mother, Catherine.

Advertisement

But based on forensic testing, the autopsy found that Moore fired the fatal shot that entered the roof of his mouth and exited the back of his head, a medical examiner's spokesman said.

In the late 1980s, Moore became one of Chicago Heights' biggest cocaine dealers--at one time running a drive-through drug operation in Wentworth Gardens area of Chicago Heights--because he had connections to corrupt cops, according to testimony at the 1992 trial of two Chicago Heights police officers.

Officers George Sintic and Gerald Werner chose Moore to front a cocaine ring they were supplying and provided him police protection, court documents say. Moore's testimony helped to put Sintic and Werner in prison.

Two years later, Moore testified against Chicago Heights Deputy Police Chief Sam Mangialardi, who was convicted in 1994 of aiding a narcotics conspiracy, among other crimes.

Moore served 8 years in prison in return for his testimony. He was released in 2000.

A law-enforcement source said Thursday that since Sunday, Moore had been cooperating with a federal investigation into drug dealing in the Chicago Heights area and was wearing a recording device when he killed himself. FBI agents monitoring the recording's transmissions were in the area at the time, but Moore was not in sight, said the source. Unlike the 1990s investigation, in which Moore helped convict corrupt cops, the current investigation did not target officers or public officials.

The FBI, along with the Cook County Sheriff's Department and the Chicago Heights Police Department, had been investigating Moore since last fall on suspicion of drug dealing, the source said. On Sunday, FBI agents arrested Moore and obtained his cooperation in a plan to gather evidence against another dealer.

On Monday, the law-enforcement source said, Moore and agents met at a Chicago Heights gas station, where agents placed the recording device on him. The source said Moore was going to meet with another drug dealer that night and record their conversations.

Advertisement

Sheriff's deputies and Chicago Heights police were aware that Moore was cooperating and that he had agreed to wear the device, the source said.

Authorities said Moore shot himself just after 10 p.m. Monday nightwhile sitting on the pavement across the street from the Chicago Heights police station. A witness saw him afterward slumped on the curb holding a handgun, Chicago Heights Police Chief Anthony Murphy said.

Illinois State Police are investigating Moore's death and how a convicted felon cooperating with the FBI got the handgun he used to kill himself.

State Police Master Sgt. Rick Hector declined comment on how Moore might have obtained the gun.