SAN ANTONIO – UPDATED WEDNESDAY: The San Antonio Police Department has released the names of the officers involved in officer-involved shootings on Monday.

According to police, Sergeant Steven Castillo fatally shot Daniel Moncada, 27, in the 11700 block of Spring Dale Drive around 2 a.m. on March 4. Castillo is a 26-year veteran of the police department, the press release said.

Police said that Officer Valentine Figueroa and Officer Drew Reyes shot and killed Jeremy Ponce, 17, at South Olive and Westfall at 1:58 p.m. later that same day. Figueroa is a seven-year veteran of the department and Reyes has five years of service, police said.

READ: SAPD releases names of suspects killed in officer-involved shootings

READ: Officer shoots, kills man inside home after being fired upon

To read more about the shootings, click above or continue below.

---

UPDATED TUESDAY: Jeremy Ponce, 17, was shot and killed at South Olive and Westfall at 1:58 p.m. and Daniel Moncada, 27, was fatally wounded at 11707 Spring Dale Dr. at 2 a.m., San Antonio police said.

---

UPDATED MONDAY: The person in the second officer-involved shooting has died. He is 17 years old.

---

(Previously)

For the second time in 12 hours, San Antonio police officers have been involved in a shooting.

The latest shooting was reported Monday afternoon at the intersection of South Olive Street and Westfall Avenue.

Police Chief William McManus said a man robbed and shot a person at Iowa and Pine.

The man took off, and police followed him and tried to stop him but he didn't initially stop, McManus said. The man eventually stopped at the intersection of Iowa and Westfall, got out of his car and started firing at police officers, McManus said.

Two officers returned fire and hit the man, who was taken to a hospital, McManus said.

"It's doubtful that he will make it," he said.

A woman and two children were with the man in his car, McManus said. They were not injured.

No officers were hurt, but two rounds hit a police cruiser, McManus said.

The man who was robbed was shot in the leg but McManus didn't know his condition.

The earlier shooting happened around 3 a.m. Monday, resulting in the death of a 27-year-old man.

"(His) parents called and said that he was throwing things around the house and causing a disturbance," police Chief William McManus told reporters at the scene. "That's my understanding at this point."

McManus said an officer who arrived, approached a back bedroom where the man was located and attempted to talk to him, but the man began shooting.

"The person shot at him with a shotgun, and the officer returned fire, hitting him multiple times," McManus said.

The man was rushed by ambulance to a hospital, where he died.

Two officers, who were not injured, were placed on administrative duty.