Authorities at the scene of a deadly car crash in Middle Island, N.Y., on Sat., Feb. 9, 2019. CBS New York

Middle Island, N.Y. — Authorities on Long Island say an elderly married couple were killed and two officers were injured when a driver in a stolen vehicle crashed into another car. Police say officers attempted to pull over a Nissan driven by 17-year-old Nahriek Belford, of Bellport, Saturday night in Middle Island after seeing the car fail to stop at a stop sign. But the driver kept going, and police followed.

The driver then hit another car, a Honda CRV trying to make a left turn.

Police said the Honda's driver and passenger, 74-year-old Jerome Weingarten and his 71-year-old wife, Randee Weingarten, of Middle Island, were killed. CBS New York said they were driving home.

A passenger in the Nissan, Angelo Belford, 19, was also killed. Police described him as Nahriek's brother.

Nahriek was hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries and arrested on reckless endangerment charges, police said.

Suffolk County Police commissioner Geraldine Hart said Nahriek is believed to have been driving under the influence. It wasn't clear if he had a lawyer who could comment.

A second passenger in the Nissan, Jaquell Funderburke, 16, survived the crash.

"As a department, our heartfelt condolences go out to the Weingarten family in this tragic, tragic accident," Hart said.

The Weingarten's son, Jason Weingarten, 41, told Newsday his parents were married for 50 years and were "good people."

"They went out to dinner last night with other people. They dropped the other couples off last night and were heading home when they got hit. It's unreal," Weingarten said.

Hart said the police department has launched an internal investigation to determine if the pursuing officer followed department protocols involving pursuits.

CBS New York points out a subsequent investigation revealed the plates on the Nissan had been switched.

Anyone who may have witnessed the crash is asked to call Suffolk County Crime Stoppers at 1-800-220-TIPS.