A woman who authorities say stopped breathing while in police custody and was rushed to a hospital for treatment has died, police said.

Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said they were notified Friday that 43-year-old Eleanor Northington had been taken off life support after the Wednesday night incident at a local church. The Marion County coroner's office will perform an autopsy to determine the cause and manner of death, police said in a news release.

Scholarship winner:Her father died. Her mother left. She was homeless twice. But Jordyn Sloan persevered.

IndyStar has brought you the news for 116 years.Help us keep doing it.

Police said earlier this week that Northington had been causing a disturbance at Mt. Calvary Apostolic Church, 6635 E. 42nd St., just before 8:30 p.m. Wednesday. A behavioral health officer who was a church member tried unsuccessfully to calm the woman, Officer Genae Cook said.

"Officers arrived and were advised of a female in the church who was possibly having a mental health crisis and became combative with the congregation," Cook said in the release.

Northington, Cook said, then assaulted the approaching officers.

"The officers physically restrained her and placed her in handcuffs," Cook said. "Shortly thereafter officers observed she was not breathing."

Officers "immediately removed the handcuffs," called for medics and began CPR, Cook said. Northington was taken to Eskenazi Hospital in critical condition.

More than 20 people in the church witnessed the incident and were cooperating with investigators, Cook said.

Cook said the responding officers will be placed on administrative leave while the incident is under investigation. Their names have not been released.

Police did not release any additional details Friday. IndyStar has left multiple messages with the church seeking comment.

IndyStar reporter Vic Ryckaert contributed to this report.

Contact IndyStar reporter Crystal Hill at 317-444-6094 or cnhill@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter: @crysnhill.