STOCKTON (CBS13) — One man was killed following a multi-car crash that started when a teenager allegedly stole a truck and led police on a high-speed chase, then ran a red light crashing into three cars.

The Intersection was cordoned off for hours Friday morning, and the cars involved in this crash not removed until noon. The girlfriend of Christian Harrison, the man killed on his way to work, spoke with CBS13 about the tragic incident.

"I saw the video shared on Facebook," said Stephanie Schipper.

When Schipper saw what was left of her white Chrysler Sebring, her heart sunk.

"...I had a feeling it might have been Christian," she said as she wiped away tears.

READ: Dicky, The Dog Resuscitated By Firefighters, Is Recovering Well At Home

Schipper and Harrison had been together for five years; he had just left for his 4 a.m. shift when he was hit while waiting for the turn light at March Lane and Da Vinci Drive.

Authorities say a 17-year-old from Oakland driving a stolen truck caused the crash.

Federico Pizano owns the stolen truck. When he called the police to report it stolen, he found it was already at the center of police activity.

"I looked at my cameras, seen the guys pulling off, and I called it in and they said at 3:05 a.m. -- they were already in pursuit," said Federico Pizano.

The high-speed chase left NB Interstate 5 and went into a neighborhood near the final crash scene.

"It's not really my fault but I feel bad for the family," said Pizano.

Two others injured were injured in the crash.

ALSO: Shocking Video: Axe Attack On Cars

"Our officers conducted life-saving measures on all individuals after taking the suspect into custody," said CHP Officer James Smith.

It all happened so fast that Schipper is still in shock. She still can't believe Harrison is gone.

"He was a great guy," Schipper said.

She wants Harrison to be remembered as a caring father who treated her two kids as his own.

"He was a funny guy, a character, and he was always loving. He would do anything for anybody," Schipper said.

Her heart and family are broken, all because the teen wouldn't stop.

"Your life is more important than that and everybody else's life as well," she said.

The teen is being treated at San Joaquin Hospital. CHP is not releasing his name because he is a juvenile.