Authorities have identified the man killed by security forces at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi’s north gate Thursday.

Daniel Eugene King, 37, died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Nueces County Medical Examiner’s Office.

His identity was first reported by KZTV-10 News.

Attempts by Navy Times to reach King’s family members in Corpus Christi, Victoria and other East Texas communities were not successful.

Emergency responders pronounced King dead at the scene of a fiery crash into a barrier, moments after officials said he exited a stolen Ford Edge crossover SUV and charged at Navy Security Forces, who had been in hot pursuit since he barreled through the south gate around 7:30 a.m.

Corpus Christi Police Department investigators suspect that King carjacked the SUV around 7 a.m. from a woman trying to pump gas at a filling station about 8 miles west of the base but they have yet to determine a motive for what they’ve classified as an aggravated robbery.

“It’s still an ongoing investigation and we’re trying piece everything together and reach the right conclusions,” said Senior Officer Travis Pace, a department spokesperson, on Friday afternoon.

RELATED

NAS Corpus Christi spokeswoman Fifi Kieschnick told Navy Times the base security personnel involved in the shooting have been removed temporarily from their patrol duties — which is standard procedure in the wake of these incidents —and they’ve been offered “counseling and all other services that they might need.”

Kieschnick said that King, a civilian, wasn’t an employee at the base and didn’t appear to be related to anyone stationed there.

Her boss, base commander Capt. Philip M. Brock, took to the station’s official Facebook page to praise the efforts of his security personnel and first responders, who were wrapping up a series of Citadel Shield/ Solid Curtain exercises when the incident occurred.

“The response to the real-world incident that occurred yesterday on board the installation is why we train,” Brock wrote. “While details will follow from investigations that are currently underway, the rapid and decisive actions of Security and Fire personnel minimized loss of life, danger to innocent bystanders, and damage to our facilities.”

Prine came to Navy Times after stints at the San Diego Union-Tribune and Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. He served in the Marine Corps and the Pennsylvania Army National Guard. His awards include the Joseph Galloway Award for Distinguished Reporting on the military, a first prize from Investigative Reporters & Editors and the Combat Infantryman Badge.