JONESBORO, AR (KAIT) - Jonesboro police on Friday released the names of two officers involved in the officer-involved shooting on Curtview Street March 7.

According to a media release from Jonesboro police, Investigators Brian Bailey and Chris Jefferson with the department’s Street Crimes Unit were at the scene when the incident happened near Allen Park.

Police said both officers responded to a drug complaint from a property manager around mid-day.

Both officers have been placed on paid administrative leave, pending the outcome of an Arkansas State Police investigation into the matter.

Arkansas State Police has been asked to investigate the officer-involved shooting off of Race Street involving a murder suspect and police, according to authorities.

During an afternoon press conference March 7, Jonesboro Police Chief Rick Elliott said the agency will be investigating the shooting that happened between Rodney Fisher and Jonesboro police.

Authorities had been looking for Fisher in connection with the death of David Marshall.

Police said officers were in the Race and Curtview area March 7 when they got a call from a property manager about suspected drug activity in the area.

“While following up on the complaint, the manager directed them to a specific residence where, a short time earlier, he had encountered what he thought were two female suspects trespassing in what he believed to be an empty apartment,” Jonesboro police said in a media release to Region 8 News.

As the officers checked the area, they found the two individuals, one of which was Nicole Herndon. Police had also been searching for Herndon as a possible missing person, police said.

“As they approached closer, they recognized one of the two as Rodney Fisher. Fisher was wanted in connection to last week’s homicide of David Marshall. When encountered, Fisher pulled a handgun on the officers and the officers subsequently fired back, striking Fisher,” police said.

Fisher was taken to a local hospital, where he later died, police said.

According to a public records request from Jonesboro police, Fisher’s criminal history goes back to 2004 and includes everything from forgery and theft to burglary, firearms and a parole violation.

Fisher was arrested in May 2014 on suspicion of aggravated assault, theft and a parole violation.

In the press conference, Elliott said it was early in the investigation.

He also noted that Herndon was found safe and is cooperating with authorities in the case.

In the release, Elliott noted local police have asked for the assistance of ASP in the case in the interest of transparency and protocol.

Jonesboro police are on the scene of a shooting on Curtview. pic.twitter.com/Ja61GFB3Di — Laura Gunter (@LauraGunterKAIT) March 7, 2019

Curtview scene is an officer involved shooting. One person has been injured and taken to hospital. pic.twitter.com/OgzGzTLuEC — Laura Gunter (@LauraGunterKAIT) March 7, 2019

Jonesboro police responded to a shots fired report in the 700-block of Curtview. (Google)

Copyright 2019 KAIT. All rights reserved.