SPRINGFIELD, Mo. A surprising scene for shoppers in south Springfield earlier Tuesday.

As U.S. marshals swarmed on a local business inside a shopping center trying to capture a fugitive.

36-year-old Jared Kelly was shot and killed by deputy marshals.

The U.S. Marshals fugitive task force had been actively looking for Jared Kelly.

They caught up with Kelly right here.

And when deputy marshals tried to arrest him, he produced a handgun which leads deputies to shoot.

I spoke to several businesses around Metro PCS who were scared after they found out a shooting had occurred.

“All of a sudden, police car after police car after police car just kept showing up, and I thought okay something big’s going on, if it’s that many cars,” said Ethan Milburn, director of first impressions at KWFC Radio, “so I look over outside and there’s like 15 police cars out in the lot and they’re rolling out the caution tape, they’re getting everything blocked off, and it’s just chaotic.”

“I passed three or four squad cars just a little north of us,” said David Taylor, station manager at KWFC Radio, “and before I got to bass pro, there’s another 3 or 4 cars, probably 7 or 8 total that I saw heading this way. I had no idea it was here.”

“I mean there were so many cops out there, and instantly rolling out caution tape, is never a good sign,” said Katie Rickman, promotions director at KWFC Radio.

Employees at KWFC Radio and farm bureau insurance, both located right next to Metro PCS said it was a big scene.

“Makes me a little bit nervous, because you don’t expect something like that especially when you are just going to work and doing your daily routine, you really don’t think somebody’s going to come in, but it could happen to you, which is pretty insane,” said Milburn.

Taylor said, “doesn’t surprise me we would see some things like this, not shootings, but some law enforcement activity around this place. Shootings? It’s another level.”

Some said they’re scared of seeing an increase in shootings.

“Things have definitely changed over the last few years in Springfield, I would never have thought living in bigger cities, such as Kansas City and near Dallas that this would happen here,” said Jennifer Mixon at Farm Bureau Insurance.

“Well it’s frightening,” Taylor said, “you see, we hear more and more of this in Springfield which I lived here long enough, we did not hear of shootings as regularly as we are, but for it to be four doors away, little concerning. It scares you that it could have been here.”

Detectives request anyone who has information about this incident to contact the police department.