Police involvement in a fatal shooting in March was justified, the Calhoun County prosecutor has ruled.

Joel D. Kellay, 46, died at his home on Kimball Avenue in Pennfield Township about 4 a.m. on March 9.

Prosecutor David Glbert said in an eight-page opinion released this week that an autopsy shows Kellay died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound as he was shot by police.

"I find the conduct of the officers involved in this matter was justified as they acted in reasonable self-defense and/or defense of others," Gilbert concluded.

Police were called at 3:58 a.m. that morning by Kellay's wife who said Kellay was intoxicated and had shot at her and missed but that two of her children had been shot and wounded.

When deputies from the Calhoun County Sheriff Department and officers from the Battle Creek Police Department arrived, they determined that the wife and the two sons had escaped from the house. The sons had taken the handgun used to injure them, but police believed one other person might be in the house and that Kellay had other weapons.

Two deputies and two Battle Creek officers entered the house lined up behind one of the deputies carrying a ballistic shield.

The officers didn't find anyone on the first floor and went to the second floor, where they found a locked door at the top of the stairs.

When the door was forced open, Gilbert said, Kellay was on a bed in a dark room holding a shotgun and facing the officers.

Behind the shield and with only a flashlight, the first deputy reported calling out "gun" and seeing the shotgun raised and fired. The first deputy and two Battle Creek officers returned fire.

Gilbert said an autopsy showed Kellay died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound from the shotgun but that he had been struck three times by bullets fired by the officers.

The pathologist concluded that, if the shot-gun blast had not been fatal, he likely would have died from a bullet fired by one of the officers, which struck Kellay in the lung.

Gilbert concluded that the officers entered the house after learning that Kellay had fired his handgun at his wife, had wounded two sons and that another person might be inside the house with Kellay.

"The fact that there was no child in the home at the time is of no moment," Gilbert said. "The officers reasonably believed there was."

Gilbert also noted that there were no lights in the house.

"The bedroom was dark except for what flashlights exposed," he wrote. "The first thing exposed was Mr. Kellay on the bed with a shotgun in his hands, pointing at the officers."

Gilbert said the officers were justified in using deadly force.

"They encountered a man with a shotgun in a dark room. He refused to put the weapon down or follow the orders ," Gilbert wrote. "Three officers returned fire. They did not fire more than necessary to stop the threat that was reasonably perceived. The entire shooting lasted about one second."

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow him on Twitter: @TSChristenson