Updated at 11 a.m.

The Shasta County Coroner's Office has identified the man who was killed in a shooting with law enforcement on Rockabye Lane in Redding last week.

The man was identified as Brandon Starr Robertson, 34, of Redding. He died March 10 at a home in the 2900 block of Rockabye Lane off Hartnell Avenue.

It was the second officer-involved shooting in Redding in the past month.

The shooting involving Robertson began at about 11 p.m. outside Bob's Liquor store, 1074 Hartnell Ave., when California Highway Patrol Officers were investigating a possible DUI, according to the Shasta County Sheriff's Office.

Near the end of the DUI investigation the suspect, who was not identified by officials, became "uncooperative" and refused to comply with officers as they attempted to place him in handcuffs, according to the sheriff's office.

The suspect also told the CHP he had a handgun. One of the officers attempted to subdue the man with an electronic stun gun, but it was not effective, sheriff's officials said.

Another CHP officer attempted to subdue the suspect but he got away and fled north on nearby Rockabye Lane, officials said.

CHP officers told sheriff's officials the suspect fired a gun at them, and the officers fired multiple rounds at the suspect, who attempted to hide in the backyard of a home on Rockabye Lane, officials said.

The CHP called for backup, with several Redding police officers and Shasta County sheriff's deputies arriving.

The suspect was found lying on the ground in the backyard of a residence on Rockabye Lane holding a handgun.

The man was ordered to drop the gun, but he refused. Redding police shot a beanbag round at him, but it was not effective and he continued to defy officers' orders, sheriff's officials said.

"The suspect raised the handgun he was holding and multiple officers from RPD fired their duty weapons, striking the suspect," the sheriff's office said in a news release. "The suspect was pronounced deceased at the scene."

An employee at Bob's Liquors declined to comment.

No officers or residents of the area were injured in the shooting, according to the sheriff's office.

Sheriff's officials said the suspect did not live at the home where he ran into the backyard.

The Shasta County Sheriff's Office has taken over the investigation into the shooting as part of the Multiagency Officer Involved Critical Incident Protocol.

The identity of the man killed was not released because his family had not been notified of his death, officials said. An autopsy in the shooting has been scheduled for this week.

"At the conclusion of the investigation, a case will be filed with the Shasta County District Attorney’s Office for review," sheriff's officials said.

The sheriff's office is asking anyone with information about the incident to call the department's Major Crimes division at 245-6135 or email at mcu@co.shasta.ca.us.

While authorities investigate Monday's shooting, February's incident also involved a man with a gun running from law enforcement, according to the sheriff's office.

In that incident, officers shot and killed Phayvanh Inthavong, a 32-year-old man known to be homeless in the Redding area, after he pointed a gun at officers near a home in the 1200 block of Arizona Street on Feb. 11.

Officials initially became interested in Inthavong when they received reports of a suspicious person with a handgun pushing a stroller. When police tried to talk with Inthavong he ran away and into a house on Arizona Street in southeast Redding, off Church Creek Road.

At one point, officers said Inthavong ran into a home and got into a fight with several residents. He eventually left the home, jumped a backyard fence and pointed his gun at officers. That is when he was shot and killed, officials said.

READ:Happy Camp man arrested after stun gun fails to faze him

READ:UPDATE: Cal Fire wants less of state in flames, starting with Hwy. 44 fuel break project

READ:Two accused of stealing bicycle during test drive