Associated Press Officer responded appropriately, sheriff says

CHURCHILL (AP) - A Gallatin County sheriff's deputy fatally wounded a man Saturday after the man shot and killed his estranged wife at their home in Churchill, a few miles northwest of Bozeman.

It was the second killing by police in Montana in 10 days.

Investigators said officers were summoned by the couple's 12-year-old daughter by cell phone as she hid in the bathroom of the home. The 9-1-1 operators heard two gunshots during the girl's call.

Tommy Miller, 48, shot Leanne Miller, 42, twice in the head between 1:37 a.m., when the daughter called 9-1-1, and 1:51 a.m., when the deputies arrived, Sheriff Bill Slaughter said at a hastily called news conference.

Miller came out of the house carrying a 9 mm pistol, and the deputies repeatedly told him to drop the gun, Slaughter said. Instead, Miller "turned and pointed a weapon at Rick West, and West fired one round."

The shot by Sgt. Rick West probably severed an artery in Miller's left thigh, the sheriff said.

Miller bled to death, Deputy Gallatin County Coroner Roger Layton said.

Miller had been arrested Friday afternoon for violating a court order to stay away from his wife, but had bonded out. He had repeatedly violated that order, driving by the Churchill home and telephoning his wife, Slaughter said.

Slaughter said West and everyone else involved, from dispatchers to firefighters, handled the situation appropriately.

"The officer responded absolutely appropriately with what he was confronted with," Slaughter said.

West, 31, a deputy with the department for at least eight years, has been placed on paid administrative leave until a coroner's inquest is completed and the sheriff feels West is ready to return to work.

A coroner's inquest is required by state law whenever a law enforcement officer is involved in a fatal shooting.

In contrast to Slaughter's quick and detailed public explanation, a police killing at Livingston on May 25 remains wrapped in secrecy. Park County Attorney Tara Depuy sealed the investigation file, and Livingston Police Chief Steve McCann said no further information would be released until the investigation is complete. That could take several weeks.

Bradley Harlan Pingree, 33, was shot to death at a trailer court just outside Livingston in a confrontation with a Livingston police officer and a Park County sheriff's deputy.

A brief statement from officials said Pingree escaped from a patrol vehicle and was shot to death when he pointed a rifle at a Livingston police officer.