A suspect is dead and an officer is in the hospital following an officer involved shooting late Wednesday night.

According to Grand Island Police, after responding to an address on North St. Paul Road for the second time in the evening, an officer, a 17 year veteran of the force was assaulted with a knife. That happened around 9 p.m.

GIPD said the officer used lethal force, shooting the 29 year old Hispanic male suspect; who was taken by ambulance and later pronounced dead. The officer who was assaulted with knife was also taken to the hospital and remains there with non life threatening injuries.

Neighbors said it happened around the 1500 block of North St. Paul Road.

This is an ongoing investigation.

"Obviously this is a very concerning situation," said Capt. Duering, Grand Island Police Department. "Right now our focus is going to be on supporting our officers, and communicating with our community about what has happened and what we can do to deal with this situation going forward."

Grand Island Police have turned the investigation over to agencies involved in the South Central Area Law Enforcement Services (SCALES) agreement for a thorough and independent investigation.

GIPD said their next step as an agency is to assist SCALES in their investigation in any way possible, while supporting their officers and members of the community.

Police said "We appreciate the patience to allow this investigation to take place with concern for the members of our department, and for family of the deceased."

In a tweet, they asked for thoughts and prayers for their officers and the family of the suspect.

"Our police officers still have a job to do. They are professionals. They're not going to let this get in the way of anything they have going on. If you need police services, especially with everything with the weather, we're going to be there to respond," Capt. Duering said.

Police said this is a difficult situation for everyone involved.

The name of the suspect has not been released.