MANSFIELD - The shooting death of Kenneth Cherry by two Mansfield police officers on March 18 at 650 W. Straub Road was a justified use of force by the officers involved, Richland County Prosecutor Gary Bishop said Tuesday.

"As a result of the review from our office and the presentation to the Richland County grand jury, it's been this was a justified use of force by the officers involved and as a result of that conclusion and that finding, there will be no further formal action by my office in this matter," Bishop said.

Mansfield police conducted a 1 p.m. community debriefing in Mansfield City Council Chambers regarding the officer-involved shooting.

"Above and beyond that, I would express my heart goes out to these officers and certainly to Mr. Cherry's family. As alluded to earlier, this was a very tragic situation that the officers found themselves in and it's a credit to their training and experience that they place themselves in danger in these kinds of situation on a daily basis," Bishop said.

The Mansfield officers involved in an incident — Scott Kotterman, Matt Davis and Thayne Telquiest — were placed on administrative leave after the incident and returned to duty on April 8, according to the Mansfield Police Department.

Davis and Telquist shot and killed Cherry on March 18 while responding to a break-in call, authorities said Tuesday.

The presentation included 911 tapes, dash cam video, photographs and autopsy results shown on a big screen.

Kotterman was the first officer to arrive on the scene, authorities said.

Tuesday, Mansfield police Det. Rob Skropits showed the audience that the weapon Cherry held was a pair of scissors he had broken apart.

Upon arrival at the apartment complex, Mansfield police officers confronted Cherry, who was described as highly agitated.

Police said he apparently had injured himself with a cutting instrument.

"Officers deployed tasers that had no effect on the suspect's actions," police said earlier. "The confrontation then escalated and resulted in the suspect being fatally shot."

Skropits said that inside an apartment, officers started talking to Cherry, trying to calm him down and de-escalate the situation.

"At one point he (Cherry) takes what they believe is a knife and puts it up to his neck. He states that he is going to hell today," he said.

"At one point where he puts the knife up to his neck where they think he is going to cut himself, the officers are there to also keep him safe and are there to save him," Skropits said. "Officer Kotterman steps in, takes out his Taser, and so does Officer Davis, and tries to Taze him. The first does not work. He's got some baggy clothing on; it may not have made a good enough contact. They try a second cycle and the Taser does not work, neither one of them.

"At that point Mr. Cherry focuses in on Kotterman and says, 'You (expletive) shouldn't have done that.' And he starts toward Officer Kotterman. After he starts toward Officer Kotterman, in that movement towards him, Officer Telquest fires, Officer Davis fires. Officers attempt First Aid but due to his wounds they know that is not going to help."

Skropits said the toxiolocology results from the autopsy report showed that Cherry had tramadol, fentanyl, methamphetamine and norfentyanyl in his system.

"The methamphetamine meets the story that his friend told us when he was interviewed," Skropits said. "He stated that when they were at the apartment (the friend and Cherry) that Mr. Cherry had done the huge-est amount of meth that he had ever seen him do and after that is when he started having problems. He said he (Cherry) talked to his mom on the phone and after that he started raging, " Skropits said.

The investigation into the officers' use of force was conducted by the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

Mansfield police Chief Keith Porch said that an administrative review of this incident will be conducted by Capt. Doug Noblet; that is the final step.

"What this review does is we make sure our officers acted according to policy and procedure surrounding this incident," Porch said.

lwhitmir@nncogannett.com

419-521-7223

Twitter: @LWhitmir