BENTON HARBOR, Mich. — Perhaps more than anyone in this town, Shannon Shurn knows the pain of a life ended too soon.

When he took to the pulpit and looked out at the faces of 700 Benton Harbor residents who had gathered for his brother Terrance's funeral Monday, he wanted to say something that would save the people in his hometown and the friends he loved.

Advertisement

Shannon Shurn, 31, standing more than 6 feet tall, seemed to crumble at the altar. He gripped each side of the pulpit with his large hands, bowed his head and wept.

"Don't waste your time out there," he said, hoping that his words would save residents from the poverty, unemployment and conflicts with police that many say mark the town.

Advertisement

"Get yourself together. Put your friends aside. Go to the Lord," he pleaded, pounding on the pulpit with each word.

Last week Benton Harbor erupted into racially charged rioting after the death of Terrance Shurn, 27, who crashed on his motorcycle June 16 during a high-speed chase by white police officers attempting to arrest him for speeding.

The event drew attention to the predominately black town, its problems and the disparity between it and its affluent neighbor, St. Joseph, a tourist community just across the river that is mostly white.

But on Monday the pain that has been so public this week took an intimate turn as friends and family gathered at the Greater Faith Apostolic Church to mourn the man who died.

Terrance Shurn was an imperfect man, they said, but he was loved. So many came to remember him that they packed the pews, sat in chairs placed in the aisles, stood three deep in the back and poured out of the double doors.

It was the small things that people remembered: the daily calls he made to friends, or the time he walked to the store and bought food for another man's child.

Sherina Angel Brown, 24, the mother of Terrance Shurn's child, stood before the crowd and said: "Terrance, I miss you, baby. It's so strange not to see you coming by, not to hear your voice on the phone." As she spoke many began to sob.

Young men wore T-shirts printed with the word "Justice" and Shurn's picture. Many believe that a police cruiser bumped Shurn's motorcycle from behind and caused it to crash, a claim police deny.

Advertisement

Mindful that their presence could incite more violence, state police who have been patrolling this town for the last week kept their distance; two squad cars were parked several blocks away. Law-enforcement officials said the town had been calm, though one house was set on fire early Monday. State police said they would have at least 200 officers patrolling Benton Harbor Monday night.

Shurn's family has asked the city to investigate the underlying causes of the riots and look for solutions. Many said they hoped Shurn's death would become a catalyst for change.

"We all don't live exactly as we'd like. But when you look back at Terrance Shurn's life, he wasn't a bad person," said Doug Wright, speaking on behalf of the family. "We are hoping that something good can come out of this."

The town has begun to contribute to a college fund for Shurn's 2-year-old son, Taequan.