Editor's note: The videos and photos in this story contain graphic content illustrating the events of March 19.

On June 20, a grand jury in Morehouse Parish ruled two Bastrop Police Department officers were justified in the shooting death of a 22-year-old man.

Thomas D. Johnson III, age 22, was killed on March 19 following a traffic stop on Kammell Street in Bastrop.

Video footage of the traffic stop shows Johnson exit a maroon sport utility vehicle. After an officer advised Johnson to stop and issued repeated orders to "drop the gun," Johnson ran across an open field in front of the recently closed H.V. Adams Elementary School.

Officer Joshua Green, age 32, fired at Johnson multiple times when the chase started and pursued him across the field while a second officer, John McKinney Jr., age 38, responded from a nearby location to the opposite side of the school.

As Johnson continues to run, he appears in McKinney's dash cam video. No audio was present on McKinney's video file, but Johnson is visible in the footage.

He falls to the ground in an area in front of the squad car before standing up and starting to run toward the Eden Apartment complex.

Johnson then disappears into an area where he falls to the ground with three gunshot wounds. He was pronounced dead at Morehouse General Hospital.

Officers recovered Johnson's gun, a loaded 40 caliber semi-automatic handgun with an extended clip, at the scene.

Case documentation obtained from the Fourth Judicial District Attorney's Office following the grand jury proceedings helps shed further light on the shooting.

The evidence reviewed by jurors includes video of the initial traffic stop and the chase. The videos also show the minutes after the shooting when other first responders arrive on scene.

Jurors saw and heard Green experiencing shortness of breath after the incident and receiving care from other officers as they loosened his vest and attempted to calm him.

Johnson's autopsy photos and audio interviews with officers and witnesses also helped expose jurors to what those involved saw, thought and felt on the day of the shooting.

State Police Report

Louisiana State Police Troop F responded to the shooting to act as lead investigators. The following summary of Troop F's report features the primary details from interviews and evidence collection after the shooting.

LSP was contacted at 3:30 p.m. regarding the shooting. Initial responders collected the weapons of responding officers and conducted an initial interview.

Green told LSP he conducted a traffic stop on a maroon SUV after learning of a disturbance call involving a person in a similar vehicle pulling a gun on residents in the nearby Eden Apartments complex. Investigators later confirmed Johnson as the suspect in the incident.

When Green stopped, the vehicle, Johnson opened the passenger's door armed with a handgun and started running toward the school. Green later said he was unaware the school closed in December. He believed Johnson was a threat to anyone at the school and residents of the apartment complex.

Green started firing his handgun as he pursed Johnson across the field in front of the school toward Riis Street. Green would later stop to reload his weapon and saw Johnson turn toward Eden Apartments and then fall to the ground.

McKinney responded to Green's call of shots fired and saw the suspect running with a handgun.

McKinney believed Johnson shot at Green and exited his patrol unit firing at the suspect. It was here that Johnson fell to the ground the first time. He then stood up and continued running toward Eden Apartments before falling to the ground a final time.

McKinney fired on the suspect from Riis Street. Meanwhile, Green pursued from the direction of H.V. Adams before kneeling to fire at the suspect.

Near Johnson's body, a package of Kool cigarettes and his Smith and Wesson .40 caliber semi-automatic pistol were located. Per the report, the pistol's chamber was empty. However, six bullets were found in an extra capacity magazine capable of holding 30 bullets.

Johnson was hit by three bullets. One traveled through his right arm and chest area before stopping at the right ventricle. It is believed all bullets traveled from right to left.

A third officer who responded to the scene while answering the original dispatch for Eden Apartments saw Johnson with the gun and both officers with their guns out. He heard shots and saw Johnson stagger, drop the gun and fall to the ground.

This officer started first aid on the suspect at the scene.

In a subsequent interview at LSP headquarters, Green explained why he shot at Johnson:

“...I was in fear for my life. I was in fear that it was around 3 o’clock, I was in fear that somebody was going to be at that school, and I didn’t want him to start engaging me as well. I didn’t know if he was gonna abruptly turn around and start engaging me. Like I said, every time he swung that weapon backwards I could see the barrel coming up with every swing of his arm as he ran. Also, he was going in the direction of the school, of the elementary school. I didn’t want him getting to the elementary school, I didn’t want him possibly taking hostages. I didn’t want to die, I didn’t want to die in that field, so he wouldn’t stop, I would continue, I would continue my commands. ... As he approached closer and closer to the school, I continued to fire."

As the chase continued past the school, Green said he was also concerned about the safety of people at the apartment complex because the suspect would have access to better concealment after reaching the housing units.

"I could see onlookers starting to flock, and I didn’t want him to get to them. I didn’t know what was on his mind. I didn’t know anything," Green said in the interview. "I just wanted to stop him before he got there, before he could hurt anyone, or hurt me, or hurt any other responding officers. All this stuff was going through my mind as I slowed down my breathing. Again, I could still see him running, and all I thought about was front sight, rear sight, squeeze, front sight, rear sight, squeeze, and he went down."

What happened at Eden Apartments?

On March 19, a school bus driver contacted police after he saw two black men fighting as he dropped off kids at the apartment complex.

The driver said one of the men came from inside the apartments while the other exited the passenger's side door of a maroon SUV.

According to the report, the bus driver said the man who exited the SUV had a gun. He then described a long magazine. The driver did not know either suspect.

Investigators also interviewed a man who was involved in an incident with Johnson immediately before the shooting.

Johnson allegedly told the man's girlfriend to get her "big booty ass back in the house" at the apartment complex. The man had words with Johnson, and Johnson reportedly pulled a gun on the man and pointed at him.

The man and his girlfriend went back inside the apartment. They said they did not call the police and did not know who did.

Timeline

15:09.19: 911 call from bus driver reporting someone drawing guns in Eden Apartments.

15:09.39: 911 call from a third party reporting witnessing Tommy Johnson pulling a gun on someone at Eden Apartments.

15:10.27: Bastrop Police radio dispatched, “Received two 911 calls from Eden. Apartments It’s gonna be a red truck with rims on it driven by Thomas Johnson. He just pulled a gun out on someone. They said he is still sitting over there. Gonna be a red truck with rims with a black male, Thomas Johnson."

15:15.18: BPD unit 406, Officer Green, asked if there was a further description of the red vehicle.

15:17.27: Officer Green informs he is on his way to Eden Apartments.

15:18.33: Officer Green announces his traffic stop of license plate 813CLX on Kammell Street.

15:19.27: Officer Green shouts, “Gun.”

15:19.36: The third responding officer announces he is on Kammell Street and can see Officer Green’s patrol unit. Officer Green yells, “Shots fired, shots fired.”

15:20.02: Officer Green provides a clothing description of the suspect while the third officer tries to locate Officer Green’s exact location.

15:21.57: Officers request an ambulance to the scene.