NORTH FULTON COUNTY, Ga. — Sandy Springs police said their none of their officers were injured when a man armed with a knife charged at them.

Sgt. Sam Worsham said officers were called to 120 Northwood Drive around 6:15 a.m. to a report of a man armed with a large kitchen knife threatening suicide. When the officers arrived, Worsham said the man approached them, and after ignoring their calls to stop and put down the knife, they were forced to open fire.

"They gave him commands to drop the knife. He didn't listen, continued to come at them in an aggressive manner. Officers were forced to open fire," Worsham explained.

[DOWNLOAD: WSB-TV's News app for breaking news alerts]

The man was taken to the hospital where he later died.

Worsham said the man had a history of some "mental issues," as well as drug and alcohol abuse.

“We get a lot of these calls. They don't typically work out this way, but you always have to plan for the unexpected,” Worsham said. "Every day you never know what you're gonna come upon. You never know what kind of call is gonna turn or escalate."

TRENDING STORIES:

Northwood Drive was shut down due to the investigation.

Kamani Priddie told Channel 2's Mike Petchenik he was coming out of his apartment when he saw police drive up.

"All I heard was gunshots, four gunshots," he said. Before the shooting, he said he could hear the man screaming.

"I heard the guy arguing. We saw him. We saw him," he said.

The Georgia Bureau of Investigation is investigating the shooting. This is the 24th officer-involved shooting that the GBI has been requested to investigate in 2019.

[INTERACTIVE MAP: Shootings involving Georgia law enforcement for 2019]

Northwood Drive is currently shut down as we can investigate an officer involved shooting. Please use alternate routes and avoid the area. Media please stage at the center ice lot. — Sandy Springs Police (@SandySprings_PD) March 21, 2019

The GBI is responding to an officer involved shooting at the request of the @SandySprings_PD. Agents are en route. pic.twitter.com/xVNHZd4mCD — GA Bureau of Invest (@GBI_GA) March 21, 2019

Cox Media Group