The Frederick County Sheriff's Office is investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting.Investigators said Abraham Arellano, 26, of Thurmont was killed around 1:30 a.m. Monday in the shooting outside a house on Sandy Spring Lane in Thurmont.According to police, they received a call before 1:30 a.m. from someone saying that they could see a suspect with a gun breaking into a residence through a back window.Investigators say that upon arrival, investigators they received information that Arellano was suicidal and implicating suicide by cop. Officers say they approached on foot and encountered Arellano coming from the backyard of the residence. Police say they gave verbal commands to him, who said he had a gun on him. As Arellano was walking back to the house, officers saw the handgun, and issued additional commands to put gun down. When he refused and continued walking to the residence, a deputy fired his patrol rifle once, striking Arellano, police say.First aid was provided; however, Arellano was pronounced dead at the scene. "Thurmont police, Frederick County Sheriff's Office and Maryland State Police all responded. Subsequently, they did encounter a subject outside a residence and they were involved in an officer-involved shooting and we do have one adult male who is deceased at the scene," a Frederick County sheriff's official said.Police said no on else was hurt and no one else was in the home at the time of the shooting.

The Frederick County Sheriff's Office is investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting.

Investigators said Abraham Arellano, 26, of Thurmont was killed around 1:30 a.m. Monday in the shooting outside a house on Sandy Spring Lane in Thurmont.

Advertisement

According to police, they received a call before 1:30 a.m. from someone saying that they could see a suspect with a gun breaking into a residence through a back window.

Investigators say that upon arrival, investigators they received information that Arellano was suicidal and implicating suicide by cop.

Officers say they approached on foot and encountered Arellano coming from the backyard of the residence. Police say they gave verbal commands to him, who said he had a gun on him.

As Arellano was walking back to the house, officers saw the handgun, and issued additional commands to put gun down. When he refused and continued walking to the residence, a deputy fired his patrol rifle once, striking Arellano, police say.

First aid was provided; however, Arellano was pronounced dead at the scene.

"Thurmont police, Frederick County Sheriff's Office and Maryland State Police all responded. Subsequently, they did encounter a subject outside a residence and they were involved in an officer-involved shooting and we do have one adult male who is deceased at the scene," a Frederick County sheriff's official said.

Police said no on else was hurt and no one else was in the home at the time of the shooting.

