CHARLOTTE, NC (WBTV) - Police have identified the man who was shot and killed in the parking lot of a fast food restaurant in north Charlotte Monday morning.

Danquirs Napoleon Franklin, 27, was identified as the “armed man” who police fatally shot after a “lethal threat” was perceived, according to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department. CMPD identified the officer responsible for firing her weapon as Wende Kerl who has been a part of the department since 1995.

According to CMPD Chief Kerr Putney, who spoke to reporters on scene Monday morning, the shooting happened around 9 a.m. outside a Burger King on Beatties Ford Road near I-85 northbound.

Flowers and candles placed in a handicap parking spot outside the Burger King were cleared Tuesday as the fast food restaurant prepared to reopen around noon.

Police released two 911 calls made from witnesses at the Burger King about an armed man Monday afternoon.

In the first call, a woman describes an African-American man inside the restaurant headed towards the counter to “fight an employee.” Halfway through the call, the woman starts repeating the same phrase - “he got a gun.”

The caller said the man was fighting an employee before waiting outside and standing by the menu board.

Police say when they arrived after receiving the 911 calls, they engaged the man in the parking lot and “repeatedly ordered him to drop his gun.”

In the second 911 call, another woman describes the scene in the Burger King parking lot where police eventually encountered the armed man.

“I have never experienced anything like this in my life,” the woman told a 911 operator.

The woman told police the man reached into his pants, possibly going for a weapon, as he approached her car. The caller told the dispatcher she drove away from the restaurant and believed the man went back inside the store. The woman told the 911 dispatcher she saw people around the Burger King drive off at that point and employees of the store running.

A police source says that Franklin was upset that the mother of his children was dating another employee. The source says the man pushed the female employee to the ground before chasing and pointing a gun at a male employee.

Witnesses told police the man was acting erratic, jumping on tables and the counter and slamming his arms and elbows on a glass door, the source says.

The source says that Franklin reached into his pocket and pulled out a gun.

"During the encounter, one of the officers perceived a lethal threat and fired a service weapon, striking the man,” said CMPD Chief Kerr Putney. “We have a gun that has been located on scene - he was armed during the encounter.”

Franklin was taken to Atrium Health Carolinas where he was pronounced dead.

At least two dozen people gathered outside of the Burger King Monday afternoon. WBTV’s Bria Bell interviewed a woman at the scene who doesn’t believe the person shot had a weapon.

In response to information coming from people gathered at the scene, CMPD officers are speaking with those who have questions about what happened in the Burger King parking lot. CMPD also tweeted about misinformation spreading in the community, and they are hoping to clarify the situation in-person and on their social media platforms.

Officer Involved Shooting UPDATE: misinformation is being reported and to clarify:



1) CMPD received multiple 911 calls about man with gun at a business

2) Officers arrived, observed man with a gun

3) Multiple commands given to drop gun and he refused

4) Gun recovered at scene — CMPD News (@CMPD) March 25, 2019

“What were getting from witnesses is he was armed inside which gave them the uneasy feeling,” said Chief Putney.

Per standard protocol, the Internal Affairs Bureau will conduct a separate, parallel investigation while the officer involved remains on paid administrative leave. No officers were injured during the shooting, according to the police department.

Community leaders responded to Monday morning’s fatal officer-involved shooting. Charlotte City Councilman Braxton Winston showed up at the scene to get answers and to voice his uneasiness.

RELATED: Community leaders respond to latest officer-involved shooting

"I always have concerns when the government takes a life of a person," Charlotte City At-Large Councilman Braxton Winston said. "I believe in our criminal justice system in terms of the process, obviously I don't think things like this should happen."

Winston says that facts matter. He says he will reserve judgment until the investigation is complete.

The local NAACP President Rev. Corine Mack also came to the scene. She talked to witnesses and people in the community about what they saw and heard.

Mecklenburg County Sheriff Garry McFadden and other community leaders gathered at an event titled “Building Trust Between our Community and the Police.” The conversation focused on building trust between the community and police.

McFadden said sit-downs and educational opportunities within diverse segments of the community could help solve the trust issue.

Anyone with additional information is asked to call detectives at 704-432-TIPS or Crime Stoppers at 704-334-1600.

Copyright 2019 WBTV. All rights reserved.