ST. LOUIS • A St. Louis police officer fatally shot a man Monday night after he ran from an apartment with pistols and pointed them in the direction of the officer, refusing police commands to stop.

Officials say the man had robbed and shot an acquaintance moments before police shot him.

No officers were injured.

By Tuesday morning, the name of the dead man, 18, had not been released. Police also have not disclosed the name of the 40-year-old St. Louis police officer who fatally shot the suspect. He has been an officer for 13 years.

The shooting, about 11:30 p.m. Monday, was in the 300 block of Walsh Street, near Minnesota Avenue and Interstate 55 in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood.

The two St. Louis police officers who confronted the gunman had gone to the neighborhood for an unrelated disturbance call just after 11 p.m. While investigating that disturbance, they heard what sounded like muffled gunfire from a nearby apartment.

The officers approached the apartment building and heard “a loud commotion” coming from one of the apartment units, police say. The officers then saw a man run out the front door, carrying two guns.

Police Chief John Hayden told reporters that officers yelled at the man to stop and drop the weapons. He ignored the officers’ commands, police say, and pointed the guns in the direction of one of the officers.

That officer shot the man, and he dropped both guns, police say. He died at the scene. A resident on Tuesday morning showed the Post-Dispatch an area on a parking lot near the apartment complex where he said the man shot by police had fallen.

Police issued an “officer in need of aid” call on Walsh at 11:33 p.m. Monday. However, no officers were injured.

The Force Investigative Unit is handling the investigation .

After the shooting, the police officers went to the apartment from which they had heard the gunshot and commotion. There, they found a 52-year-old resident shot in the leg. The resident was an acquaintance of the man fatally shot by police, Hayden said.

The resident and the man had been “having a social evening” on Monday, Hayden said. The two had been drinking together, police said. During the visit, the man tried to rob the resident of his gun, and they struggled over the weapon. The resident was shot in the leg, police say.

The injured resident told investigators that, when his acquaintance ran out, he had heard a voice outside his apartment say, “Stop,” followed by a single shot. The resident’s condition was not available, but police said he was stable at a hospital.

The officer who fired his weapon was in the neighborhood with a second officer, who is 22 and has been on the department about six months. The second officer did not fire his gun, police say.

Additional details of the shooting were not released by police.

Laurie Skrivan of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

EDITOR’S NOTE: An earlier version of this story had an incorrect age for the suspect.

Kim Bell • 314-340-8115

@kbellpd on Twitter