A federal drug enforcement agent fatally shot a Zion man as he tried to escape arrest by ramming an unmarked squad car with his own vehicle, Waukegan authorities said Friday.

Darnell Moss, 25, who was on parole for a 2000 cocaine-trafficking conviction, was shot in the head and torso Thursday in the parking lot of a McDonald's restaurant at Grand Avenue and Green Bay Road in Waukegan, authorities said.

Advertisement

"This was a planned drug buy by our agents. [Moss] was there to deliver drugs to the agents," Waukegan Police Chief Bill Biang said. "He decided to use his vehicle as a weapon to try to escape."

The shooting, under investigation by the Lake County Major Crime Task Force, occurred about 7 p.m., police said. Moss was pronounced dead at 7:14 p.m. at St. Therese Medical Center in Waukegan, said Lake County Coroner Jim Wipper.

Advertisement

Soon after Moss pulled his car into the McDonald's parking lot, Drug Enforcement Administration agents and Waukegan police moved in to arrest him. Moss allegedly hit an unmarked Waukegan police car with an officer inside, Biang said. The officer was treated for minor injuries.

Authorities would not comment on the precise sequence of events after the squad car was rammed and when Moss was shot. They also declined to say whether Moss was armed.

But Biang said a "substantial amount" of cocaine was found in Moss' car.

DEA spokesman Gary Boertlein said the agents acted properly.

"There's no indication of impropriety," he said. "The actions of the suspect ... determined the outcome and the reaction of the police. They were acting to save their lives and the lives of innocent people that were located in the restaurant parking lot."

In an unrelated incident early Friday, Waukegan police charged a Waukegan man with murder after he allegedly beat to death a Chicago man.

The victim, Johnny Tate, 46, provided money to Timothy Robertson, 20, to buy crack cocaine, said a Waukegan police news release. Robertson returned with no drugs but refused to hand over the money, police said.

Witnesses told police the two began to fight. "Robertson continued to beat Tate after he was unable to defend himself," the news release said.

Advertisement

Police called to the scene in the 500 block of South Genesee Street found Tate unconscious. Robertson, who had bloodied clothing, tried to flee but was apprehended, police said. He was charged with murder and is being held on $1 million bail in Lake County Jail.