Woman fatally shot by deputies after taking Sheetz employee hostage at knifepoint, authorities say

A woman was fatally wounded after being shot by Davidson County Sheriff's Office deputies Tuesday night at convenience store after she reportedly held a Sheetz employee hostage at knifepoint, investigators said.The incident happened at about 10:45 p.m. at the Sheetz located 8283 Old U.S. Highway 52 in Welcome, officials said.Investigators said April Robertson, 45, of Lexington, entered the store displaying a knife and held it to a Sheetz employee’s neck. Robertson then forced the employee outside of the Sheetz where they were encountered by responding deputies. Deputies made contact with Robertson at the scene, and said she refused to drop the knife and comply with any of the deputies requests to diffuse the situation. During the incident, Robertson was shot and killed by responding deputies, officials said.Deputies then attempted lifesaving measures on Robertson, but were unsuccessful, according to officials.The employee suffered minor injuries as a result of the incident.The name of the deputies involved have not been released at this time. The deputy that did discharge their firearm is on administrative duties pending an investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation.

A woman was fatally wounded after being shot by Davidson County Sheriff's Office deputies Tuesday night at convenience store after she reportedly held a Sheetz employee hostage at knifepoint, investigators said.

Advertisement

The incident happened at about 10:45 p.m. at the Sheetz located 8283 Old U.S. Highway 52 in Welcome, officials said.

Investigators said April Robertson, 45, of Lexington, entered the store displaying a knife and held it to a Sheetz employee’s neck.

Robertson then forced the employee outside of the Sheetz where they were encountered by responding deputies.

Deputies made contact with Robertson at the scene, and said she refused to drop the knife and comply with any of the deputies requests to diffuse the situation.

During the incident, Robertson was shot and killed by responding deputies, officials said.

Deputies then attempted lifesaving measures on Robertson, but were unsuccessful, according to officials.

The employee suffered minor injuries as a result of the incident.

The name of the deputies involved have not been released at this time.

The deputy that did discharge their firearm is on administrative duties pending an investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation.