Eliot Kleinberg

ekleinberg@pbpost.com

BOYNTON BEACH — Gabriela Marino kissed her daughter goodbye and walked down to her Red Subaru Legacy, which she backed into the same space every night just outside her building at Manatee Bay.

She slid her coffee tumbler into the console, placed her purse on the passenger-side floor, clicked her seat belt, started the car, turned on the radio, shifted into gear, and prepared to drive to Palm Springs Elementary School, where she taught second grade.

Seconds later, her former boyfriend fired several bullets into her. He then came around, reached in and shot her several more times. He then confronted arriving Boynton Beach police, who shot him dead.

In all, according to a trove of reports made available late Monday by Boynton Beach police, Jeffrey Nicholas Garner would fire at least 22 shots on April 3, ripping the early morning calm at the upscale apartment complex on Federal Highway.

Police later would find on his cellphone a text from the night before, asking how he was doing.

"Not good," he had replied. "Going to end it."

>> COURTS Judge throws out video evidence against Robert Kraft in Jupiter spa prostitution case

Marino's daughter would say Garner had begun "acting weird" after the two had broken up two weeks earlier. She said Garner had texted her mother repeatedly and had knocked on their door as late as 10:30 the night before. Marino kept telling Garner to leave her alone. It didn't work.

"We can't explain it."

Michael Jensen, an uncle of Garner, told The Palm Beach Post just after the shooting that Garner had come to Florida from southeast Missouri about a decade ago and "was an absolutely, absolutely, wonderful kid," adding, "We can't explain it. And I don't know that anyone can."

Garner, 55, worked for Solitude Lake Management firm. His supervisor there told police said he'd been a good employee and a good friend.

Marino's daughter told investigators she believed he'd been in recovery for about four years. According to the reports, Garner shared his apartment with two women who also were in recovery.

A roommate said Garner was upset about the breakup. She said she'd never seen Garner and Marino argue. She did say she knew Garner had a handgun in his apartment.

After the shooting, Marino's family invoked a Florida constitutional amendment approved in November and modeled after the national Marsy's Law movement. As a result, Marino's name has been redacted from police documents. But The Post independently confirmed Marino's identity. The family has declined to speak to The Post.

>> LATEST Gardens man dies from injuries 10 days after motorcycle crash

Marino, 51, a native of Argentina, had studied and worked in Wisconsin and had worked for the Palm Beach County School District since August 2018.

The daughter said her mother and Garner, who lived in a different building at the complex, had met at the community pool in August 2018 and had dated for five months. She said her mother broke up with Garner on March 18, saying she had wanted a firmer commitment from him.

A friend told police that, on March 29, she and Marino were at the pool when Garner brought her ice cream, wine, and a card with $100 inside. He followed her to her apartment and asked the friend for privacy. The friend said she overheard Marino give back the $100 and tell Garner to accept that the two were done. The daughter said Garner had taken a new job in St. Lucie County.

The night before the shootings, another man in the complex said, he and Garner had drunk heavily and he'd had to walk Garner back to his residence at about 8 p.m. He said Garner discussed the breakup with him but said nothing about violence.

The daughter said she came home from work that evening and saw Garner lurking in her stairwell. She said her mother appeared scared and indicated Garner had been knocking on her door. At that moment, the daughter said, someone knocked. She looked through the peephole. It was Garner. The two women remained silent. Twice more, the last time at 10:30 p.m., Garner again knocked. Marina texting him to stop bothering her.

"He's running away! Hurry!"

On the morning of April 3, the reports said, a man who'd been walking his dogs said he saw Garner sit down about three vehicles away from Marino's car.

One man said he'd heard gunshots. He stepped outside to see what happened said he saw Marino, who already had been shot, then saw Garner reach in and shoot Marino several more times.

Marino's car, in gear, rolled, striking at least two other cars. Its windows were shattered.

Officers heard on a police radio that a man just had shot a woman inside a vehicle and walking away, still firing. Arriving officers could hear gunshots. One officer who lived in the apartment said he was preparing for work when heard the shots and joined his colleagues in the parking lot.

A resident told arriving police, "He's running away!" adding, "Hurry!" Officers told one man to jump a wall for safety, but he said he had a bad shoulder, so three officers helped him over the wall.

>> COURTS First-degree murder trial begins in fatal shooting of 18-month-old

As officers confronted Garner, he took a position on the driver's side of his white Chevrolet Silverado pickup. Residents reported hearing police say, "Don't move. Put the gun down. Don't do this. You already killed somebody. You don't have to do this."

The officers fired. Garner fell dead, his handgun next to his body. Police walked over to Marino's car. She was dead in the driver's seat.

The officers' actions in killing Garner remain the subject of a separate investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which Boynton Beach retains to handle officer-involved shootings. Boynton Beach police named the five officers: Capt. Richard McNevin, Sgt. Charles Turco and officers Alex Moreno, Gregory Albanese and Harold Hall. It did not specify which of them had fired his gun.

On Garner's cellphone, police found a string of texts from Marino, telling him to stop contacting her. They also said he'd texted someone else to say he was dying of prostate cancer but did not want to tell anyone. The report said the person who traded texts with Garner believed that might be a ploy to gain sympathy. The reports don't say if Garner actually had cancer. Palm Beach County Medical Examiner's reports are not yet available.

Just before the shooting, the daughter said, she kissed her mother goodbye, but moments later heard what sounded like gunshots. She called and texted her mother without result. She was growing more and more worried when police knocked on her door.

The daughter said she called her brother to let him know. When police asked if someone might want to hurt her mother, she said, "Yeah. I think I know who it was."

EK@pbpost.com

@eliotkpbp