An update on Tuesday's fatal police shooting of a Redding man says investigators haven't been able to find a gun that officers suspect he may have been carrying.

Donnell James Lang, 48, was shot and killed by a Redding police officer about 4 p.m. Tuesday during a struggle in the 2100 block of Hemingway Street in east Redding.

The Thursday update from the Shasta County Sheriff's Office provides details on what led up to the shooting and describes extensive searches in the neighborhood and the Lema Ranch area without finding a handgun the man was reported to have had.

Police were first called at 3:38 p.m. Tuesday by a resident in the 2000 block of Crestlake Drive. The 911 call said a man, later identified as Lang, was walking on the road and acting strange.

The resident said he tried to speak to Lang but he didn't want to talk. The resident said over the phone that Lang had a small handgun in his waistband and sometimes in his hands.

The Crestlake Drive resident also said Lang was watching children play basketball in the street. Investigators said Lang was last seen walking on the McConnell Foundation's Lema Ranch trails north of Crestlake Drive.

When officers arrived and started checking the Hacienda Heights neighborhood, they talked to another witness who watched Lang through binoculars. This person said he also saw a handgun in Lang's hand and that information was broadcast to officers, the report says.

A police officer on Julian Street, north of the trails system, saw a man matching Lang's description and waited for a backup unit to get there. After that, two officers stopped Lang in the 2100 block of Hemingway Street.

The sheriff's office report says the two officers believed Lang was armed and ordered him to display his hands and get on the ground. The officers also told Lang they thought he had a gun.

Lang, who investigators say was uncooperative and refused to obey the officer's commands, kept reaching into his waistband. Lang finally complied with the police and laid on the ground.

"Lang did not have any visible weapons in his hands although the officers thought he may have a weapon hidden on his person, based on the information received from one of the 911 callers," the report says.

One officer grabbed Lang by the left hand and put him in a control hold. As the officer, identified Friday as Cpl. Rob Peterson, was trying to handcuff him, Lang resisted and got free. At that point, Lang reached for his waistband and a so far unnamed Redding police officer shot him with a rifle.

"The backup officer fearing Lang was reaching for the reported handgun fired multiple rounds from his duty rifle striking Lang multiple times in the torso," the report says.

As previously reported, both officers gave Lang first aid before medical personnel took over.

"Lang was ultimately pronounced dead after lifesaving efforts were conducted on scene," the report says.

A search of Lang's body did not turn up any weapons. The report says Lang had a key fob, keys and a bulky, dark-colored wallet.

Investigators looked further to try and find a weapon. A dive team from the sheriff's office searched a pond near the Leah's Loop trail. The pond was murky, which made the search difficult.

A K-9 from the state Department of Fish and Wildlife that's trained for search and recovery also was used in the firearm search.

Investigators interviewed numerous neighborhood residents to find out more. Surveillance video from near Crestlake Drive showed Lang holding an unknown, dark-colored object in his right hand about the time of the initial call.

Some residents who saw Lang walking on Hemingway Street before officers arrived also said they saw Lang holding something in his hand but couldn't tell what it was.

A background check on Lang showed he lived in Redding for two years. Authorities contacted him twice before, in October and November of 2018, after people reported suspicious circumstance near the Lema Ranch property.

Once investigators have completed their full report, it will be reviewed by the Shasta County District Attorney's Office.

The Major Crimes Unit of the sheriff's office says that if anyone has information about the case, to call 530-245-6135 or send email to mcu@co.shasta.ca.us.

READ:UPDATE: Redding police handle 'situation' near Garden Tract neighborhood

READ:Sheriff: Burney man upset he couldn't find ex-girlfriend arrested on suspicion of attempted murder

READ:Search of house uncovers large cache of unregistered weapons, ammunition in Siskiyou County

Mike Chapman is a journalist for the Record Searchlight in Redding, Calif. His newspaper career spans Yreka and Eureka in Northern California and Bellingham, Wash. Follow him on Twitter @mikechapman_RS. Subscribe today!