KALAMAZOO, MI -- The four police officers who shot and killed a Kalamazoo man will not face criminal charges, Kalamazoo County Prosecutor Jeff Getting said Friday.

The police officers were justified in using deadly force last April when they shot and killed Thomas Verile Jr. in Kalamazoo County, Getting said at a press briefing Friday, Jan .17.

Verile, 37, died April 4, 2019, in the basement of a home in the 2800 block of East G Avenue in Kalamazoo.

The man, who police say was wanted as a parole absconder, was hiding in a “small, cramped” basement under a pile of clothes when officers found him while issuing an arrest warrant, Getting said. Verile ignored multiple commands to show his hands, and told the officers he had a gun and threatened to kill himself and the police, Getting said.

Verile “moved forward suddenly” while laying on his back with his hands still covered when four officers fired a total of 17 gunshots, striking Verile 13 times, Getting said.

The officers believed Verile was armed and acted out of self defense, Getting said, though they did not ultimately find a weapon.

The four officers involved were members of the Michigan State Police 5th District Fugitive Team, including Deputy U.S. Marshal Tony Casper, MSP Detective Sgt. Kevin Conklin, Michigan Department of Corrections Investigator Thomas Johnson and Battle Creek Police Department Officer Andrew Horn.

The officers were not wearing body cameras and there were no video or audio recordings of the encounter inside, Getting said.

The medical examiner determined Verile’s cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds and the manner of death was homicide. Verile was shot in the chin, neck, shoulder, torso, abdomen, arm, thigh, leg and hand. According to toxicology reports, Verile had methamphetamine, methadone, amphetamine and morphine in his system at the time of his death.

Getting said Verile’s criminal history and previous encounters with police were “very relevant” in his decision. Officers were told ahead of the incident that Verile may run or hide from officers, that he may be armed and the officers should use caution.

Getting said Verile posed an “immediate, extreme threat” to the officers.

Verile was wanted for violating parole on previous convictions for breaking and entering and felony firearm. Police said he also had warrants against him after failing to appear in court on charges involving a short-barreled shotgun and child neglect.

The shooting occurred two days after Verile escaped an arrest attempt, and fugitive team officers had him under surveillance for several days, police said.

During the arrest attempt, state police said Verile fled in a vehicle and nearly struck two detectives. The vehicle then crashed through two gates and became disabled, but Verile jumped out and ran. Police called in a tracking dog but he was not found.

Verile’s ex-wife Amy Verile told MLive Friday that she doesn’t believe the officers were justified in Verile’s death.

“(The officers) get to carry on with their lives but my children are left to grow up without their father,” Verile said.

Also on MLive:

Man shot and killed by police nearly struck officers with car two days earlier

Man shot, killed by police in Kalamazoo ‘didn’t deserve to die,’ ex-wife says