This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

UPDATE (April 11, 2019)– Indiana state police say Gulley fired a shot from a 9mm handgun at the deputy before the deputy drew his weapon. Gully was found to be in possession of meth at the time of the incident.

Original story:

HENRY COUNTY, Ind. – A Greenfield man was killed in an officer-involved shooting on westbound I-70 in Henry County.

Indiana State Police Sgt. John Bowling tells us the Henry County Sheriff’s Office received a 911 call around 5:15 a.m. regarding a suspicious man wearing all black and walking in the median on I-70 near mile marker 125.

A Henry County deputy responded to the area and offered the man some help, but police say the man pointed a gun at the deputy.

“He got out to see if he could give the suspect a ride. As they were speaking, the man pulled out a gun and pointed it at the officer. Shots were fired. The suspect was hit. The officer was not,” said ISP Sgt. John Bowling.

Sgt. Bowling says it’s not clear how many shots were fired. The deputy who pulled the trigger gave first aid to the man identified as 32-year-old Michael Gulley, but Gulley died after being rushed to the hospital.

According to court records, Gulley served nearly a decade in prison for drug-related crimes before being released last summer.

Gulley’s family says he struggled with addiction and “knew he was going to fail a probation check” this week. He even told his loved ones, “He wasn’t going back to prison.”

When asked about the shooting, his mother added, “That’s how he chose to die.” The family said they’re thankful the deputy didn’t get shot.

State police closed the westbound lanes of I-70 for several hours to investigate. Troopers don’t know why Gulley was walking on the interstate, but his car was found two miles east of the shooting scene.

“This situation just proves there is no such thing as a routine call. An officer stopped to see if he could give the guy a ride to get him off the interstate and the situation turned deadly,” said Bowling.

The deputy involved in the shooting was not hurt, but he has been placed on routine leave while the case is investigated.

The interstate has reopened to traffic.