The identity of the gunman who shot a man and stole a vehicle Wednesday afternoon before leading police on a pursuit and was later killed in a police-involved shooting has been released.

The suspect was identified as 27-year-old Trivenskey O. Odom, of Shreveport, according to a Caddo Parish Coroner's Office Thursday afternoon.

His body was taken to LSU Health Hospital for autopsy.

“We knew that he already shot someone. We knew that he robbed someone. We knew he had a gun and shot at innocent people during the chase; he pointed the gun at law enforcement officers during the chase and he pointed it once the chase had concluded, at the end of the chase,” Caddo Parish Sheriff Steve Prator said during a news conference outside the Caddo Correctional Center on Thursday morning.

“The law enforcement personnel had no alternative. There was no other options open than to take the action that they took,” he said.

Armed robbery, shooting

At around 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Shreveport police responded to the 200 block of 70th Street in reference to a man armed with a handgun who stole a white, older-model Chevrolet Tahoe and shot a man multiple times prior to fleeing the scene, according to a news release from the Shreveport Police Department.

The shooting victim was taken to Ochsner’s LSU Health Hospital emergency room where he was treated for non-life-threatening injuries in the leg.

Police pursuit

Before 6 p.m., the Caddo Parish Sheriff deputies responded to the 5300 block of North Market Street, unaware of the suspects connection to incidents in Shreveport.

At this location, the suspect was at a residence and was threatening to harm himself and persons inside the home.

“After the pursuit initiated, is when both agencies realized we were chasing one person for two different crimes that we know off," said Shreveport provisional police chief Ben Raymond.

The Caddo Sheriff's Office was joined by the Shreveport Police Department and Louisiana State Police in a chase that went into areas of northern Caddo Parish, and in areas of east and west Shreveport.

“According to pursuing law enforcement personnel, the armed suspect brandished a handgun several times during the pursuit and allegedly discharged the weapon randomly during the incident, narrowly missing innocent bystanders,” the news release said.

The pursuit lasted about half an hour. During that time, law enforcement made multiple attempts to disable the suspect’s fleeing vehicle.

“…it had become apparent to authorities that the suspect, based on his actions, was willing to continue eluding authorities at all costs and without any regard for the safety of the public, himself or pursuing officers,” the release read.

“With this knowledge, law officers in their obligation to protect public safety, ended the pursuit at the intersection of Jewella Avenue at Greenwood Road, ultimately being forced to result to lethal force options," the release continued.

No law enforcement officers were injured during the transaction of events that unfolded on Wednesday. No other bystanders were reported injured following the shooting on 70th Street.

Ongoing investigation

The case remains under investigation by the Shreveport Police Department, Caddo Parish Sheriff’s Office and Louisiana State Police.

Following the shooting, police recovered a firearm from the suspect's vehicle.

Raymond told the media that investigators have started going through and reviewing police videos and collecting copies of videos recorded by bystanders.

“I’m not aware if any of the officers, deputies, troopers involved had body cams. It’s certainly possible. I know there was going to be some vehicle dash cam videos," Raymond said.

Raymond also told the media that there was "some language that possibly (the suspect) was suicidal," but that information is still to be investigated.

Emily Enfinger is the breaking news reporter for The Shreveport Times, covering crime and court. Follow her on Twitter at @EmilyEnfinger. To email, click here.