Image 1 of 2 ▼

Richmond police officers on Thursday killed a father who they say was armed with a knife and had stabbed his estranged wife and teenage son.

Authorities have identified the man as 55-year-old Luc Ciel.

The woman ended up suffering from a laceration to her stomach and the boy had a cut to his face, police said. No other family members were harmed; there was a sister in the house as well.

Lt. Matt Stonebraker said police were "relieved" that they were able to save the family members from this "vicious attack."

"She's the real hero of the story. She was able to call," said Stonebraker.

He said officers were dispatched to Wilson Avenue about 2:30 a.m., after a girl told police her father had broken a back window to their house and had entered their home. She said family was trapped inside the home and couldn't get out.

Police arrived on scene and shot the man, who they say was armed, while he was physically assaulting one of his family members.

"As they interrupted the attack, the suspect advanced toward the officers and ignored their commands, when the officers fired upon him. He was pronounced dead at the scene," said Stonebraker.

The man was pronounced dead at the scene. Police said there was an active domestic violence restraining order against him.

The woman and boy were taken to a local hospital where they are currently being treated for non-life threatening injuries. Police said the father had also bitten the teenage girl in her arm.

One neighbor who lives across the street said he never saw or heard of any trouble within the family.

"They looked like a normal family to me. I never saw them fight. Sometimes you can see someone not get along good. But we didn't see anything," said Bulberto Bustamante.

It is unclear from police how many shots officers fired and how many officers were involved.

As is customary, the police officers involved in the shooting will remain on administrative leave, pending investigations by Richmond police and the Contra Costa County District Attorney.