Tony Holt

tony.holt@news-jrnl.com

Sheriff Mike Chitwood said he has never felt luckier during his 32-year law enforcement career than he did Thursday afternoon.

He wasn't going to have to tell a young girl that her father had been killed in the line of duty.

"A millimeter lower and Sgt. Dane is dead," Chitwood told the media a few hours after the shooting during a news conference less than 100 yards from where the face-off took place on State Road 44.

Volusia County Sheriff's Sgt. Thomas Dane, 54, had a round from a .32-caliber handgun graze his skull. The bullet punctured his K-9 baseball cap in two places and cut through his scalp, but Dane was not seriously injured, Chitwood said.

The shooter, a carjacking suspect who led deputies on a pursuit from Deltona to the Volusia County Fairgrounds outside DeLand, died at the hospital from his bullet wounds, according to the Sheriff's Office. He was identified late Thursday as 30-year-old Phillip Thomas Marsh of Lake Helen.

Chitwood said Marsh had a criminal history and had been declared missing and suicidal for several days before the shooting.

"Clearly ... when he came out of that vehicle, he wanted us to shoot him and he was going to take one of us with him," Chitwood said.

Dane and the suspect were transported to Halifax Health Medical Center in Daytona Beach. The sheriff said Dane was airlifted to the hospital while the suspect was taken by ambulance. Dane was released from the hospital Thursday evening.

The violence started around 2:20 p.m. when a woman on Ludlow Street in Deltona was approached by a shirtless and shoe-less man armed with a gun, according to the Sheriff's Office. He pulled a gun on her and demanded she hand over her the keys to the Chevrolet pickup that was parked in her driveway, deputies said.

The woman told a 9-1-1 operator that she had kids in the vehicle, but they safely got out of the truck before the man pulled out of the driveway and fled.

The suspect drove the white pickup out of the neighborhood and headed north along State Road 415, according to the Sheriff's Office. At one point, the suspect swerved toward one deputy and waved his gun out the window, Chitwood said. Marsh headed north on the highway and turned west on S.R. 44. He ran over a set of deployed stop sticks, which punctured all four tires, said Andrew Gant, a Sheriff's Office spokesman.

The rubber on the tires fell off, so Marsh was driving on the bare rims of the pickup going 10-15 mph while deputies continued to follow him, Chitwood said. The vehicle traveled about 3 miles without tires before stopping.

The pickup came to a halt near the fairgrounds, where deputies had set up a roadblock. Marsh got out, held a gun to his head to ward off deputies, crossed the median and tried to carjack another motorist near the roadblock, but another deputy pulled in front of him and blocked him about 10 yards from the vehicle, Chitwood said.

That's when the suspect opened fire on deputies, five of whom returned fire. Chitwood was at the scene and was behind Dane, who was one of the deputies firing at the suspect. Chitwood did not fire his gun because he "couldn't get a clear shot," he said.

Chitwood said he was astonished at what he saw from Dane.

"He never retreated," the sheriff said. "He kept going forward toward the threat.

"You talk (bravery) and just being so focused on what your mission is, I've never (seen) anything like that."

Marsh ran into the woods after he was shot and continued his standoff with deputies. A ballistics team moved in armed with shields and stun guns and eventually subdued the suspect. Deputies loaded the severely injured man into an ambulance, but he was pronounced dead around 5 p.m., Chitwood said.

Court records show Marsh was out on bail awaiting trial on an aggravated battery arrest stemming from an incident in September in Lake Helen. Marsh was accused of running over another man with a golf cart and injuring him.

After everything quieted down Thursday, Chitwood got on the radio and commended deputies and dispatchers.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting. All of the deputies who fired at the suspect were placed on administrative leave with pay, which is standard following a deputy-involved shooting.

The highway remained closed to traffic until about 8 p.m., Gant said. The S.R. 44 ramps to I-4 also were closed.

Chitwood said he saw Dane, who has served with the Sheriff's Office for more than 30 years, at the hospital. He was surrounded by family and was in good spirits.

"It was a great pleasure ... seeing him in that hospital room with his daughter," Chitwood said.

------

DON'T MISS AN EPISODE, SUBSCRIBE: iTunes | Google Play