RED BLUFF — Tehama County District Attorney Matt Rogers Thursday announced the 2019 shooting of Henry Lane by Red Bluff police Cpl. Stephen Harper was reasonable and justified.

Harper and other Red Bluff police officers encountered Lane, 42, on the west side of the Antelope bridge over the Sacramento River in the early hours of April 14, 2019, Rogers said in a video released Thursday. Lane matched the description of a man who had less than an hour earlier been seen knocking on the door of a closed business looking for a gun.

Lane was agitated, verbally combative and non-compliant with officers, Rogers said. He had a large stick, nearly 5 feet long and 1-2 inches in diameter.

Despite repeated commands from the officers, Lane refused to drop the stick, Rogers said. His statements to officers were confused and nonsensical.

Lane entered the roadway and was told by officers he was under arrest, Rogers said. He continued to refuse to comply.

A less-than-lethal shotgun round was fired at Lane, but it had no effect, and he ran westbound across the bridge, Rogers said. He encountered another officer who fired a taser at him, but it did not affect him.

Rogers said Lane turned quickly away from the officer with the taser and swung the stick at Harper, who was 7-10 feet behind Lane, missing him. Because Lane was on the sidewalk, he was elevated above Harper.

“Had Lane successfully stuck Cpl. Harper, the strike would have likely hit Cpl. Harper in an area from his head to his chest,” Rogers said.

In response, Harper fired his duty handgun one time, which stopped Lane, Rogers said. Officers then performed CPR on Lane.

An autopsy revealed Lane had a lethal level of methamphetamine in his system at the time of his death, Rogers said, which is revealing in terms of his behavior toward law enforcement.

Rogers said it is reasonable to believe, given Lane’s conduct, that Harper could have suffered great bodily injury or death if Lane had struck him. Other officers or residents nearby could have been injured or killed by Lane as well.

“Based on the foregoing, this office concludes that Cpl. Harper was reasonable and justified in his use of lethal force against Henry William Lane.”

Lane’s criminal history included four felony convictions of being a felon in possession of a firearm, assault with great bodily injury, assault with great bodily injury likely and a separate felony for resisting arrest. He had 12 prior misnomers, including five incidents of resisting arrest and four episodes of assaulting a peace officer.