JACKSON, Mich. — Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka has cleared three sheriff's deputies in a shooting. Deputies Darren Shackelford and Kirk Carter as well as Sergeant Michael Stuart shot at Akeen Brown while responding to a report of domestic violence in April. Brown died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Police were called to a home a Westlane Street in Summit Township on April 17 by a woman who said she'd been assaulted by her boyfriend, Akeen Brown. The woman wanted to return home with her son and asked police to remove Brown from the house. As they searched the home, Brown ambushed Deputy Carter and shot him twice, once in the hand and once in the leg, with a .45 caliber pistol. Carter and the other officers returned fire. The investigation found they fired 39 shots in approximately 10 seconds. Brown fired 7 rounds.

Sgt. Stuart and Dep. Shackelford pulled Dep. Carter from the house. Carter was taken to a hospital. A special-response team sent a robot into the house to check on Brown. He was found dead from what an autopsy reporter determined was a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. Brown was not hit by any of the bullets fired by police.

Ballistics tests show the .45 caliber piston Brown used to shoot Dep. Carter was very likely used in another shooting on Blair Park Drive in Jackson on November 20, 2018. Brown was wanted for a parole violation at the time of the April 17 shooting. Police say they'd found a knife, stolen handgun and ammunition at his home in Flint during a parole compliance check on February 26, 2019.

Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka released a letter Thursday stating Brown's actions on April 17 would lead a reasonable person to believe the deputies were at serious risk of great bodily harm or death and that deadly force was required to protect themselves. He ruled they were "legally justified in shooting at Akeen Brown under either the doctrine of self-defense or defense of others."

Deputy Kirk Carter survived his gunshot wounds. He underwent surgery and is still recovering from significant injuries. He has not returned to work.

Stay in touch with us anytime, anywhere.

Download our free app for Appleand Android

and

Sign up for newsletters emailed to your inbox.

Select from these options: Breaking News, Severe Weather, School Closings, Daily Headlines and Daily Forecasts.

Follow us on Twitter

Like us on Facebook