Oceanside police investigators released the names Monday of twoofficers involved in an officer-involved shooting over the weekendwhich resulted in the death of Vista resident Jose Ulloa.

Ulloa, 21, was fatally shot Saturday morning in the TempleHeights area of the city, spokesman Karen McDonough said.

Officers John Janda, 38, and Carl Wilson, 26, were involved inthe fatal shooting, she said.

Advertisement

One of the officers fired at Ulloa as the suspect sped away andmade a wide turn in an alleged attempt to run over the officer,McDonough said. Ulloa, who was shot in the upper body, waspronounced dead at a local hospital.

Two other passengers in the Honda fled the scene following theshooting, which occurred less than two miles from the area whereOfficer Tony Zeppetella was fatally shot on June 13 during aroutine traffic stop.

One of the passengers, 21-year-old Mark Ramiro Abilez ofOceanside, was arrested later that day when sheriff’s deputiesfound him hiding in a field, McDonough said. He was booked onsuspicion of attempted murder of a police officer and autotheft.

The other passenger, who police are still trying to identify, isstill at large.

Since Oceanside police investigators are working several othershooting cases, the Sheriff’s Department has taken over theinvestigation.

Also Monday, Escondido police continued their probe into thefatal Saturday night shooting of 22-year-old John Nguyen. Thevictim was shot in the area of Calle Montera and Sierra LindaDrive. His assailant is still at large.

Homicide investigators are seeking to interview the occupants ofa dark-colored Ford Expedition that was in the area during theshooting, police Lt. Jim Maher said in a statement. Thoseindividuals had originally assisted in summoning police, but leftthe scene before officers arrived.

The vehicle occupants are not suspected of being involved in theshooting, but they may provide police with valuable information,Maher said.

Anyone with information is asked to call Escondido police at(760) 839-4717.

Contact staff writer Ken Ma at (760) 761-4408 orkma@nctimes.com

7/1/03