SOUTHERN ILLINOIS - A 25-year-old Columbia man is dead after shooting himself following a three-county chase early Saturday morning, police said.

Christopher S. Moallankamp was flown to St. Louis University Hospital after suffering a self-inflicted gunshot wound believed to be to the head. Moallankamp led various police agencies on a car chase starting in Pinckneyville and spanning Perry, Franklin and Williamson counties.

Moallankamp was pronounced dead at 8:05 p.m. Sunday by a hospital physician. An autopsy was conducted but results won't be known for another four to six weeks, the city of St. Louis medical examiner's office said.

The chase started unexpectedly.

Perry County Sheriff Keith Kellerman said deputies and Pinckneyville police responded to a report of a truck sitting at Illinois 154 and Perry Street. Police arrived to find Moallankamp slumped over the wheel of a black 2001 Ford four-door pickup truck there. The truck was towing a Mastercraft ski-boat, motor and trailer.

Police awakened Moallankamp and asked for identification, at which point he "took off like a bat out of hell," Kellerman said.

Police pursued him to the Perry-Franklin county line and ended their pursuit, Kellerman said. At that point, other agencies took over. Williamson County Sheriff Tom Cundiff said his department started tracking the incident when Moallankamp was southbound on Illinois 148 at Sesser. The Williamson County Sheriff's Department reported that Christopher police tried to stop the vehicle, which did not yield and continued south on Illinois 148 to Herrin.

"Stop sticks," devices used to puncture tires on fleeing vehicles, were set out near Herrin. They flattened the front tires on the vehicle. Moallankamp continued south on Park Avenue for about two miles, eventually stopping in the road and trying to car-jack a Ford Ranger pickup driven northbound on Park by Johnathan Duke of Christopher.

Moallankamp was armed with a semi-automatic pistol.

Duke said he pulled over when he saw the police, and he locked the doors when Moallankamp jumped out and ran toward Duke's truck. When Moallankamp couldn't open the truck's door, he jumped in the bed of the truck and tried to enter through the rear sliding window, Duke said.

When Moallankamp failed to enter the vehicle, he shot himself while in the bed of the truck, police said.

The ski boat and trailer were reported stolen from Monroe County and the pistol was stolen from St. Clair County, police said.

A small amount of methamphetamine, as well as drug paraphernalia including a digital scale and syringes, were found in the vehicle, Cundiff said.