Police vehicles flood the scene at Lawndale Avenue and Division Street where officers saw someone being shot and ran after the suspects, who engaged them in gunfire, on May 3, 2019. (Javonte Anderson/Chicago Tribune)

A man has died after his shooting led to a gunbattle between Chicago police and the suspects Friday night in the Humboldt Park neighborhood.

A 25th District tactical car was on patrol about 8:20 p.m. near Lawndale Avenue and Division Street when officers in the car saw a man getting shot and the gunman fleeing on foot, police said.

Advertisement

The officers jumped out of their car and began chasing the gunman, who turned and fired at them.

In an attempt to apprehend the suspect, two officers fired their weapons, police spokesman Sgt. Rocco Alioto told reporters at a news conference at the scene late Friday.

Advertisement

Alioto said police do not believe the officers hit anyone. He said the gunman got into a waiting vehicle and sped away but that police found his gun.

The original shooting victim, 33-year-old Mutasim R. Sulieman, died after being taken to Stroger Hospital, said police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. An autopsy Saturday determined Sulieman died of multiple gunshot wounds and his death was ruled a homicide, according to the Cook County medical examiner’s office.

Alioto said no one was in custody and police were looking for witnesses and any video surveillance of the area.

At least two suspects were being questioned, police said earlier.

Chicago Fire Department Cmdr. Frank Velez said at least one ambulance was sent to the scene but did not have further information.

A sea of flashing blue lights could be seen from a distance as a heavy police presence remained as of 9:30 p.m.

Yellow crime scene tape, police vehicles and orange cones were used to block off the intersection while officers waving flashlights redirected traffic.

The block is lined with businesses including an auto and tire center, a Subway restaurant and a gas station.

Advertisement

Check back for details.