Frank Fernandez

frank.fernandez@news-jrnl.com

It didn't take long for trouble to again find a Daytona Beach man recently released from prison for causing a wreck that killed a man.

John Mai, 25, was back behind the wheel of a car Saturday, again speeding away from deputies, according to a statement released Monday by the Volusia County Sheriff's Office.

Mai nearly hit several motorcycles and cars before crashing into a porch and bailing from the car before being arrested, wrote Andrew Gant, sheriff's spokesman, in an email.

The 25-year-old Mai was released Jan. 18 after serving about 7½ years of his 10-year prison sentence for vehicular homicide, aggravated fleeing and grand theft auto. Mai was only 17 on Jan. 9, 2010, when he sped away from an attempted traffic stop in the Daytona Beach area. Deputies did not chase him because a pursuit was not authorized but that didn't save Paul E. Outzen, 72, of DeLeon Springs, who was fatally injured when the stolen-vehicle driven by Mai crashed into his car at Tomoka Road and Madison Avenue.

Mai had ties to a street gang and by then had already fled from police at least three times before he crashed into and killed Outzen. He had also been arrested four times on charges of stealing cars. He was only 11 when he was first arrested on a charge of resisting an officer.

Sheriff Mike Chitwood, who was the police chief in Daytona Beach at the time, said on Monday he remembers the wreck that killed Outzen and one of his dogs. He said Mai is a good example of his belief that 20 percent of the people commit 80 percent of the crimes.

“We are going to throw everything we can to have him stay in jail and keep him off the streets as long as we can,” Chitwood said.

But for now Mai is free again after posting $12,500 bail on Sunday.

Chitwood said deputies are asking the State Attorney's Office to revoke Mai's bond.

Saturday's arrest was not even Mai's first since his release from prison. Mai stopped his silver Nissan on South Nova Road about 1:38 a.m. on March 7 when an Ormond Beach Patrol car turned on its police lights. The officer said Mai was doing 63 mph in a 45 mph zone. Mai was charged with operating a vehicle with a suspended, canceled or revoked license. He was also charge with possession of narcotic paraphernalia. He was released several hours later after a bondsman paid the $1,000 bail.

Only 10 days later, Mai attracted the attention of the Sheriff’s Office helicopter, Air One, about 10:35 p.m. on Saturday. The chopper's crew radioed deputies about a suspicious vehicle but when a deputy tried to stop Mai, he sped away at high speed, the release said.

As the helicopter followed, deputies used stop sticks to puncture at least one tire on Mai’s car, which crashed at 236 N. Caroline St., Daytona Beach. Mai then ran but was quickly arrested. A passenger who also fled was not caught.

Mai was charged with fleeing or attempting to elude law enforcement, leaving the scene of a crash with damage, driving with a suspended license, resisting an officer without violence, possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia. He was released from the Volusia County Branch Jail on Sunday morning after posting $12,500 bail.

When Mai was sentenced in 2011 for the fatal wreck, he told then-Circuit Judge R. Michael Hutcheson, who now serves as a senior judge, that he wanted another chance.

Mai said that his childhood was marred by custody fights between his parents. He said he had earned his high-school equivalency diploma while in custody of the department of corrections, while awaiting trial.

Mai told the judge he thought about the crime "every day."

"It's depressing," Mai said in 2011. "I feel prison is just going to make me worse."

DON'T MISS AN EPISODE, SUBSCRIBE: iTunes | Google Play