BRIDGETON – The father of a man killed in a high-speed car chase claims unnamed state and city police effectively “drove him to his death” as they sought retaliation for past run-ins with officers, according to a lawsuit filed in Cumberland County Superior Court.

Devonte Brooks, 21, of Millville died after his car hit a utility pole on Route 49 near Pearl Street in Bridgeton on the night of Jan. 13, 2017. The lawsuit states Brooks, who was alone in his Lincoln Continental, exceeded 100 mph during the chase.

More:Millville man charged with murder at Maple Gardens in Bridgeton

More:Vineland OKs budget with tax hike

New Jersey State Police, at the time, said a trooper had been chasing Brooks but the pursuit quickly was halted when the trooper lost sight of the vehicle.

Vineland attorney Louis Shapiro filed the lawsuit on Jan. 9 on behalf of Troy D. Brooks, the father of the Devonte Brooks. Shapiro on Wednesday declined to comment beyond the statements in the complaint.

The complaint currently specifies only the New Jersey State Police and the city of Bridgeton as defendants. However, Shapiro states, more defendants may be named once more records are released.

The lawsuit asks for compensatory damages, punitive damages, interest, attorney’s fees, and legal costs under both the New Jersey Wrongful Death Act and the New Jersey Survivor’s Act.

The New Jersey Attorney General’s Office on Tuesday declined comment after The Daily Journal forwarded a copy of the lawsuit.

A copy of the lawsuit also was forwarded to Bridgeton officials. The city declined comment on Wednesday.

Bridgeton police Chief Michael Gaimari commented briefly on Thursday.

“ I am aware of the incident and pending litigation and as it is unfortunate that the incident resulted in the loss of a life, I stand by the actions of the officers involved due to the circumstances that initiated the attempted apprehension of Mr. Brooks,” Gaimari said.

The lawsuit alleges officers wanted to catch Devonte Brooks, and engaged in willful misconduct to do so, because he had “eluded capture by law enforcement and/or the Defendants. It states there also may be other “intentional or reckless reasons” for starting the chase.

In the lawsuit, Troy D. Brooks claims that he went to the scene of the accident and that a trooper spit at his feet and told him his son should have stopped.

State police said their pursuit started because the car Brooks was driving looked like one that had hit a city police officer earlier that night. State police said Brooks apparently lost control of his vehicle at a curve and that Bridgeton police notified them of the crash.

Shapiro, in the lawsuit, says state police released a crash investigation report to his office but refused to release records such as radio transmissions and video.

State police investigated the crash with the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office. The lawsuit states the Prosecutor’s Office closed its investigation in April 2017 and notified the state. The Prosecutor’s Office declined comment Tuesday because of the litigation.

Joseph P. Smith; jpsmith_dj; (856) 563-5252; jsmith@gannettnj.com

Also in South Jersey