WETUMPKA — The second passenger in a vehicle involved in a high-speed chase and fatal crash that ended in the Coosa River in downtown Wetumpka is facing murder charges under Alabama's accomplice law.

Jonisha Jordan, 21 of Montgomery, has been indicted on felony murder, two counts of attempted distribution of a controlled substance and reckless endangerment charges in the March crash, confirmed Chief Assistant District Attorney C.J. Robinson.

Jordan has not been arrested or had the indictments served on her, but communications have been made to her informing her of the indictments, he said.

Last month Rufus Alton Brown, 31, of Montgomery, another passenger in the car, was indicted on the same charges, courthouse records show.

The two are being charged under the Alabama accomplice law, said Robinson. The law holds that accomplices can be charged with murder if anyone, including a co-defendant, dies in the commission of a crime.

Jordan and Brown were allegedly involved in a scheme to smuggle drugs into Julia Tutwiler Prison for Women, an Alabama Department of Corrections news release said at the time. DOC investigators spotted the car parked near the prison about 7:30 p.m. and when agents approached the car sped away and law enforcement officers pursued it through downtown. The crash occurred when the vehicle drove through Gold Star Park and went into the river.

The driver of the car, Quendarrius Cummings, of Montgomery was killed. A 2-year-old child was also in the car and was rescued by passersby from the river.

Prosecutors were first considering seeking reckless murder charges against the duo. Both reckless murder and felony murder are Class A felonies with a punishment range of 10 years to life in prison. However, the reckless murder statute allows only for the charging of one person, the individual that conducted the reckless act, Robinson said. Since Cummings was the driver of the car that crashed into the river, he could have been the only one to legally be charged with reckless murder.

“We felt at grand jury, and feel now, we can successfully argue felony murder charges to a jury given the unique circumstances of this case,” he said when Brown's indictments were announced. “This was a situation where an ongoing drug transaction lead to a high-speed chase through downtown Wetumpka with a 2-year-old in the car. The actions of the adults involved placed their lives at risk, the responding officers’ lives at risk and posed a grave risk to the general public.”

Contact Montgomery Advertiser reporter Marty Roney at mroney@gannett.com.