Dive teams have pulled to shore a vehicle that was driven into the water Tuesday night during a police chase in Port Aransas.

The driver was inside the white pickup when it was recovered and pulled to shore. He was removed from the vehicle just before 2 p.m. Burroughs identified the man as Martin Andrew Steitle, 64, in a news release late Wednesday night.

Nueces County Medical Examiner's office will conduct toxicology screening and post mortem examination to determine the cause of death. Burroughs said it could take "several weeks" to complete the toxicology screening.

The investigation is ongoing, Burroughs added.

Rescue teams, including a dive team from the Corpus Christi Police Department, spotted the vehicle just after 11 a.m. Wednesday, Port Aransas police Chief Scott Burroughs said.

The vehicle was about 150 feet from shore. Cables and large enclosed water flotation bags were used to lift the pickup from the water.

About 10:15 p.m. Tuesday, Port Aransas police responded to a call of a suspicious person in the 3000 block of Alister Street.

Officers found a man in a white pickup truck. As an officer walked toward the vehicle, the man drove off and almost struck the officer.

Officers pursued the vehicle with lights on as the driver headed toward the ferry.

The man drove around the ferry loop as officers boxed the vehicle in, Burroughs said.

After the vehicle drove around several times, it drove on the loading ramp, crashed through the barrier and went into the water.

The vehicle chase near the ferry was caught on phone video and posted to Facebook.

A white pickup truck is seen driving slowly with police units closely behind with lights on. One minute into the video, the pickup is seen driving off the ramp and water splashes.

Another 10-second video shows the incident from another angle as the vehicle goes head first into the water.

Aransas Pass Police Department assisted the officers at the ferry, according to a Facebook post.

The department's marine division worked to find the vehicle in the water, but the team was unable to perform a dive operation.

Monica Lopez covers trending and breaking news in South Texas. Help support local journalism with a digital subscription to the Corpus Christi Caller-Times.