SAVANNAH, Ga. (WSAV) – A man accused of killing a Savannah Police officer had a criminal history spanning decades, according to arrest records.

An alleged armed robbery that resulted in the death of Sgt. Kelvin Ansari and the suspect, 49-year-old Edward Fuller III, was just one of many run-ins he had with police.

Police records show his past charges date back to the late 1980s, including aggravated assault and repeated DUI offenses.

According to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI), Fuller robbed a Savannah barber shop before the incident unfolded.

The GBI released further details on the shooting in a press release:

Preliminary information reveals that the subject (Fuller) had just committed a robbery of an individual leaving the Boyz II Men Barber Shop located at 2032 Bull Street. Fuller took money and other items, after striking the robbery victim with a weapon. When officers arrived on the scene, they began their investigation into the robbery, but Fuller was thought to have left the area. As the officers were continuing that investigation, Fuller was in a vehicle nearby, unknown to the officers. Sergeant Kelvin Ansari walked near the vehicle; Fuller exited and immediately began firing upon officers, striking Sergeant Kelvin Ansari and Officer Douglas Thomas. Fuller fled the scene on foot to the backyard of a nearby residence. Responding officers were able to determine the location to which he fled. During a search of the area for Fuller, Fuller emerged from a shed in the backyard and pointed a handgun at the officers. One officer fired his weapon, striking and wounding Fuller. A handgun was recovered from the scene and was determined to have been stolen.

The GBI said that all three men, Fuller, Sgt. Ansari and Officer Thomas were taken to Memorial Health where both Ansari and Fuller died. It said that Thomas was treated and released.

Savannah Police said Thomas was wounded in the leg.

The GBI says it will continue its independent investigation and turn over results to the Chatham County District Attorney’s office.