A Coconino County Sheriff's Office deputy fired their weapon and killed an armed man near Parks on Saturday morning.

Sheriff's officials identified the man who died as 43-year-old Paul Mcvicker, who lived in Parks. The incident is currently under investigation by the Northern Arizona Officer Involved Shooting Team, with the Flagstaff Police Department leading the investigation, according to a sheriff's office media release.

Sheriff officials said deputies were responding to a report of domestic violence in the Pine Aire neighborhood near Parks. The woman called deputies at the sheriff's Williams substation, saying her ex-husband had pulled a gun on her during an argument at their home. Mcvicker left the scene in a white vehicle, she told dispatchers.

While driving to the home, deputies reported spotting a vehicle matching the description of the man's car along County Road 141, which is at the Parks exit directly south of the train tracks.

When deputies stopped the vehicle, the man exited the car holding a handgun. Despite multiple commands to drop the gun by deputies, the suspect continued to advance with a gun in his hand.

A deputy reportedly fired at the man and he fell to the ground. Police video from the shooting censors Mcvicker's body.

Deputies on the scene attempted to render aid to Mcvicker, but he died from his wounds, according to the report.

Mcvicker was transported to the Coconino County Medical Examiner's Office for an autopsy.

No deputies were injured from the altercation, but Tyler Stoppe, the deputy involved in the shooting, has been placed on paid administrative leave. Stoppe has been an officer for 5 and a half years.

Sheriff officials say the deputy fired "at least one round," but Jon Paxton, spokesperson for the sheriff's office, told the Arizona Daily Sun that they will release more information and details, including the amount of bullets fired, once the investigation is completed.

Video footage from responding deputies has been made available on the sheriff's office Facebook page. The footage of Mcvicker is blocked by the deputy's rifle during most of the video.

Paxton alleged that the deputy gave Mcvicker commands and fired his weapon at Mcvicker in the video, but the audio was not recorded. Paxton explained that the audio from the cameras needs 30 seconds to buffer before it is able to record, and was turned on abruptly before the shooting occurred.

Thisarticle has been updated from its original version.