Source: Santa Barbara County District Attorney

Santa Barbara County District Attorney Joyce E. Dudley announced today that she has concluded her legal analysis of the May 7, 2019 officer-involved shooting that resulted in the death of Francisco Anthony Alcaraz Jr. This detailed analysis is posted on the Office of the Santa Barbara County District Attorney website at www.countyofsb.org/da.

PUBLIC REPORT ON OFFICER INVOLVED SHOOTING OF FRANCISCO ANTHONY ALCARAZ JR. BY LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS ON MAY 7, 2019

The Santa Barbara County District Attorney’s Office has completed its review of the investigation, conducted by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office, of the homicide of Francisco Anthony Alcaraz Jr., age 32, occurring on May 7, 2019, at 25 Camino de Vida, #147, in Goleta, California. The following analysis is based upon investigative reports, coroner’s reports, video and audio recordings of the incident, and photographs and witness interviews taken during the investigation conducted by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office (“SBSO”). The investigation was submitted to this office by SBSO Detective Wayne Flick. Upon review of all aspects of the investigation and the current law, the District Attorney finds the shooting was a justifiable homicide under Penal Code section 196(2).

FACTUAL SUMMARY

Overview

In May 2019, the Santa Barbara Police Department (“SBPD”) was investigating two recent gangrelated shootings within the city. In connection with that investigation, detectives obtained an arrest warrant for Francisco Anthony Alcaraz Jr. (“Alcaraz”) on a charge of attempted murder involving a gun, and a search warrant for an apartment in Goleta where he lived part-time with his wife and four children. Shortly after noon on May 7th, members of the SBPD SWAT team approached the apartment to serve the warrants. Officers announced their presence and the warrants, and after receiving no response from Alcaraz, they breached the front door. Before the officers could enter the apartment, Alcaraz fired three to four rounds at the officers. At least one round ripped through the pants of one of the officers. One officer returned fire before all the officers began to retreat around the side of the apartment to the back of the complex. Alcaraz fired again at the officers, this time from a second story bedroom window in the back of his unit. Multiple officers returned fire. After the neighboring units were evacuated and a stretch of Highway 101 was closed, officers eventually located Alcaraz on the second floor of his apartment with four gunshot wounds to his body. A handgun and extended magazine were located near him. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

The full report can be read here.

Related Articles

May 7, 2019: Wanted Felon Found Dead After Shootout with Police