Associated Press

ST. PAUL -- Relatives of a 14-year-old boy who drowned after driving a stolen car into Lake Phalen thanked police on Tuesday for trying to save the boy.

Thomas Leon White died early Monday after being chased by police through an east side neighborhood.

Police said White freed himself from the sinking car and yelled for help but the two pursuing officers, who were slightly injured when their squad car also went into the water, couldn't find him in time.

The driver of the squad car, Officer Santiago Rodriguez, used a rope to enter the water in hopes of finding him.

ADVERTISEMENT

White's relatives don't blame the police for his death.

"The kid was in a stolen car and he ran," Phillip Anderson, the boy's uncle, said. "If I had chased the kid myself and crashed, I don't know if the first thing I would be thinking would be tying a rope around my waist and trying to save him."

White had been in trouble before. He had truancy problems at Washington Junior High. When Ramsey County authorities placed in a group foster home last year, he ran away.

"This kid's been on the edge for quite some time," Anderson said. "T.J. was a very caring and likable young kid, but he just made a very bad decision."

The chase started as a traffic stop. The vehicle had failed to signal a turn, said St. Paul police Sgt. Dan Anderson. Officers Rodriguez and Michael Noren noticed and attempted to pull the car over.

"It just took off," Dan Anderson said. The officers followed. The chase lasted less than a minute, he said. It was later learned that the car had been stolen.

The speeding car ran a stop sign, went over a 30-foot embankment and went airborne, narrowly missing trees and a large culvert before landing in the water.

Rescue crews found White's body about three hours later. Authorities were able to positively identify the boy through fingerprints that the Police Department had on file, Dan Anderson said.

ADVERTISEMENT

Some neighborhood residents thought the police were to blame for White's death.

"If he had shot somebody that would have been one thing," resident Charlie Makidon said. "But I'd rather they let him go than run a 4,000-pound vehicle down a residential street like it was a bullet, haphazardly endangering everybody's life."

Anderson said police will conduct a routine review to determine if the officers followed departmental policy regarding hot pursuit.