WYOMING, MI -Hours after Brady Oestrike's death, his family showed up at the police station looking for answers.

Did he die in a car crash? What about the woman reportedly found dead in his car? Did he die on the job, as a lineman for a power company?

Wyoming police gave no answers. Police were investigating a triple homicide and suicide. They had the questions.

Police already knew about the so-called Craigslist killer's crimes: He abducted, tortured and killed a pregnant woman, Brooke Slocum, 18, and decapitated her boyfriend, Charles Oppenner, 25, before killing himself in a police chase.

But, what could lead him to commit these unthinkable acts? Were there others?

Brady Oestrike was born to a large, blended family. His mother, described as "protective," home-schooled him, though he periodically attended private schools.

He was the only child Kristine and Richard Oestrike had together. His father said he had a normal childhood.

After high school, he received technical training and became a supervisor. He was motivated to get ahead but he was willing to help others. He was involved at church and took mission trips to Haiti and Ukraine, his family said.

He bought his first house in his early 20s, a sister, Barbara Miling, told police.

"Barbara described Brady as a very generous person and that he would open up his house to anyone. She felt that (women) would often take advantage of him," Detective Jillaine Whitcomb wrote in police reports.

Miling said her brother told her that a "gold digger" had taken money from him and sent it to Mexico. She said that a seven-year engagement to a woman in Canada ended when she left him a month before the wedding.

He told family that he was always sending money so that she could visit.

He claimed that she cleaned out his bank accounts and 401(k) after he bought her a $30,000 engagement ring - with diamonds and sapphires - that she kept, the sister told police.

Another sister, Anne Oestrike, told police that her brother was protective of her. That's the way they saw it.

No one knew then what was going on in his basement.

Everyone knew he kept a lot of weapons. He carried at least two guns at all times, his family told police.

His family also saw whips and chains in his house.

That could be explained. He liked the long-ago battles of kings and queens, and live-action role-playing games such as "Dungeons & Dragons." He liked mock sword fights and battles. He attended Renaissance fairs and re-enactments.

Andrew Weener described Oestrike as one of his best friends though they did not talk frequently. Weener had trouble being convinced that Oestrike committed the crimes.

Police say Oestrike met the victims on Craigslist and arranged a July 12, 2014, hookup at Gezon Park to exchange money for sex.

Instead, Oestrike decapitated Oppenner and hid his body under tree limbs at the park. He took Slocum, who was eight-months pregnant, back to his house on Taft Avenue SW, where he bound and tortured her over the course of five days.

He took video of the horror.

She was strangled on July 17, 2014. Oestrike later that day shot and killed himself during a police chase.

"(Weener) stated he was in shock and upset and did not know what to think but stated what was being said was not the person he knew," Detective Paul Pena wrote.

Weener told investigators he did not recall Oestrike having a girlfriend but said he talked about wanting a wife and children.

"(Weener) states Oestrike was friendly and approachable and did not have a 'tough guy' persona. He states he cared for people and was solid in his beliefs. He states he never knew Oestrike to hurt anyone or get into fights," the detective wrote.

Former roommate Nicholas Failing said Oestrike liked to work a lot to make more money. He was quiet, and wouldn't approach others. They had to approach first.

"He states when he shook your hand he would squeeze it really hard and it would hurt," Pena wrote. "Nicholas states it was like Brady was telling you I'm stronger than you. ... He states Brady was very strong and not someone you would want to make mad."

Failing, who moved into Oestrike's house in 2005, said he and another friend, Timothy Schutte, who moved in a year later, stayed upstairs. Oestrike stayed downstairs on his computer.

Oestrike kept knives and loaded firearms throughout the house. He hid knives in the couch. He was extremely paranoid, friends said.

Once, Oestrike accidentally fired a Desert Eagle .50-caliber handgun while waving the gun. The round passed through a kitchen wall and hit Failing's car, damaging the alternator.

Failing and Oestrike pushed the car into the garage. Oestrike turned off the lights. He saw a police car down the street. A little later, a neighbor came over and told him he was going to kill somebody if he wasn't careful.

"Nicholas states Timothy later asked Brady what would you have done if you accidentally shot one of us. He states Brady said I would shoot the other one of you and claim you went crazy and I had to shoot you," Pena wrote.

The roommates left in 2007.

Oestrike's behavior had become increasingly odd. He hid tiny cameras inside of birdhouses in the house. He urinated into bottles in his computer room, despite having a bathroom nearby. Empty pizza boxes stacked up in the basement.

Oestrike also liked to use an alias: JOAT AMOS, for Jack Of All Trades, A Master Of Some.

He didn't anger easily, but "when he 'snapped,' you would not want to be on the receiving end of his anger," Pena wrote.

Failing said Oestrike did not clean up after himself. He also had body odor.

Failing moved across the street. He brought his house key back to Oestrike but Oestrike didn't need it. He had already changed the locks.

The two talked maybe three times in the next two years they lived across from each other. Other neighbors said they rarely saw Oestrike.