The investigation started when a man was found dead at a luxury Dunwoody apartment complex.

Example video title will go here for this video

DUNWOODY, Ga. — A local social studies teacher shot and killed his alleged lover after claims of infidelity and then died after crashing into a dump truck as police chased after him, authorities believe.

Authorities said it started Monday early Monday morning at an apartment complex near Perimeter Mall in Dunwoody where numerous callers to 911 reported hearing gunshots and screaming.

Shortly after daybreak, authorities were able to identify 42-year-old Roy McClendon-Thompson of Ellenwood as the gunman.

Dunwoody Police said they went to Ellenwood to find the suspect and that's when McClendon-Thompson drove away in a Cadillac.

DeKalb County Police chased McClendon-Thompson into Clayton County where he crashed into a dump truck and died at the scene.

Dunwoody Police PIO Robert Parsons said they believe McClendon-Thompson and Jones “are believed to have been involved in a romantic relationship and that the shooting may be connected to an allegation of infidelity”.

According to police records, Jones had reported threatening messages from McClendon-Thompson to police and feared for his safety three days before his death. At the time of Saturday's report, the responding officer did not report seeing anything threatening in the messages.

McClendon-Thompson was a social studies teacher at McNair High School, according to DeKalb County Schools. He was also a member of the Principal Advisory Council at the high school, according to the district website.

DeKalb County police chase takes deadly turn 1/6

2/6

3/6

4/6

5/6

6/6 1 / 6

McNair High School's principal released the following statement about McClendon-Thompson's death:

"Dear McNair High School Parents:

"It is with great sadness that we inform you that one of our teachers, Mr. Roy McClendon-Thompson, was killed in a car accident on yesterday.

"To help our students and staff members deal with the sudden loss, we had grief counselors at school this morning. The Counselors facilitated individual, small group, and whole class sessions. The team of Grief Counselors will be on site tomorrow as well.

"We do not have any details about Mr. McClendon's services at this time. We will provide details once the family provides the information. Let's encourage one another and keep the family in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time."

Kindest Regards,

Dr. Loukisha Walker

Principal