The person who died was the front passenger of a car that was hit by the suspect trying to elude police.

Example video title will go here for this video

ATLANTA — One person is dead after a suspected DUI driver crashed into their car during a chase with police through downtown Atlanta.

Georgia State Patrol said a black Dodge Challenger heading in the wrong direction pulled in front of a trooper at Spring Street near 5th Street at about 3:40 a.m. Saturday. When the trooper attempted to stop the car, it made a U-turn and took off, initiating a police pursuit.

The driver, later identified as 34-year-old Kahre Williams from Union City, drove south on Spring Street at a high rate of speed and exited onto the Downtown Connector south, GSP said. The Challenger struck two vehicles – a red Ford Expedition and a silver Nissan Altima. After the crash, police said Williams fled on foot and was soon apprehended by two troopers. He was not injured.

Reports indicate that 28-year-old Juan Gispert was the person killed in the crash. While his address wasn't listed, several others in the Ford Expedition were all from Florida.

Williams refused a blood test. Authorities are now securing warrants for the blood draw, second-degree murder, vehicular homicide, two counts of serious injury, felony fleeing and related traffic charges.

Court records show that Williams has been charged in multiple crimes, including possession of marijuana and criminal possession of financial transaction card forgery devices in Fulton County.

Five people were inside the Ford Expedition and some of them were ejected from the car, police said. The front seat passenger died from their injuries at Grady Hospital. The person’s identity has not been released. Three others in the car were hurt. Two passengers in the Altima also sustained injuries.

When he was apprehended, Williams refused to do a blood test. He was arrested on suspicion of DUI and faces second degree murder charges, vehicular homicide, two counts of serious injury, felony fleeing and other related traffic charges.

Police said no law enforcement vehicles hit the suspect or victim cars in any way and no troopers were hurt. Atlanta Police and Hero units helped divert traffic.

A judge denied Williams bond.