A teenager was charged Tuesday in connection with a crash that killed one of his passengers at the end of a pursuit by Milwaukee police officers.

Marcellus M. Purifoy, 18, was charged with multiple counts, including fleeing an officer resulting in death and fleeing an officer resulting in bodily harm, according to a criminal complaint.

Larenzo Jones, 18, died Sunday after being injured in the crash shortly before 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the 4000 block of West North Avenue, officials said.

Milwaukee police pursuits jump 155% after policy change targeting reckless drivers

According to police, medical examiner's officials and the complaint:

Purifoy was driving a Hyundai Accent being chased by police, heading the wrong way south on North 40th Street between 65 and 75 mph before slamming into a school bus and striking a pickup truck in the 4000 block of West North Avenue.

A woman and a 13-year-old boy on the school bus, an occupant of the pickup truck and Purifoy and two other occupants of Purifoy's vehicle were injured in the crash, police said.

The complaint indicates an occupant of the vehicle had shot two girls, ages 13 and 16, and a 14-year-old boy about 3 p.m. Thursday in the 4600 block of North 36th Street, shortly before the chase.

Milwaukee police later reported that a 14-year-old boy was charged with reckless endangerment of safety in connection with the shooting.

Purifoy was in the Milwaukee County Jail on Tuesday, with bail set at $5,100, according to jail records.

Also Tuesday, a man killed in a crash at the end of another police pursuit was identified by the Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office as Dequan M. Roquemore, 27.

The crash occurred shortly before 5 p.m. Saturday at North 13th Street and West Capitol Drive.

Police began chasing Roquemore's Pontiac G6 at North 41st Street and West Fond du Lac Avenue following a drug complaint.

He was traveling about 80 mph southbound on 13th Street before running a stop sign and slamming into an SUV that was westbound on Capitol Drive.

He then struck a house, breaking a natural gas meter and setting the house on fire.

The driver of the SUV suffered minor injuries.

RELATED:'We're going to chase you': After officer's death, Milwaukee officials spread the word about pursuit policy

Milwaukee Police Chief Alfonso Morales has vowed to continue his department's pursuit policy revised in September 2017.

The policy allows officers to chase vehicles linked to violent crime, drug dealing or reckless driving.