‘She was my everything’: Murder charges expected after mother struck, killed by driver suspected of DWI

A family is grieving a 43-year-old mother who died Thursday night in a crash caused by a driver suspected of being impaired. Karolyn Chambers, 43, leaves behind three children and a partner. High Point police said Chambers' vehicle was struck by a Chevy Impala driven by Anthony Tate. Investigators said an officer saw a white Chevrolet Impala cross the center line while traveling in the 100 block of Gordon Street. The officer said they suspected the person was driving while impaired and attempted to pull the car over at Washington Drive and Oneka Avenue, but the driver did not stop.Police said the driver ran a red light and reached speeds of 90 miles per hour on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard as he approached North Centennial Street. Police said the driver, later identified as Tate, then crossed into the opposite lanes and hit Chambers' sedan head-on at the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and North Hamilton Street. On Friday morning, Chambers partner, Quorinna Rainey, laid balloons at the crash site."She was my everything. She was my whole world. She meant a lot to a lot of people," Rainey said.Police said Tate and a passenger in his car were both taken to the hospital. The passenger is in critical condition.Tate is facing multiple charges, including second-degree murder, felony death by motor vehicle, felony serious injury by motor vehicle, driving while license revoked, driving while impaired, careless and reckless driving and aggravated felony speed to elude arrest.

A family is grieving a 43-year-old mother who died Thursday night in a crash caused by a driver suspected of being impaired.

Karolyn Chambers, 43, leaves behind three children and a partner.

Advertisement

High Point police said Chambers' vehicle was struck by a Chevy Impala driven by Anthony Tate.

Investigators said an officer saw a white Chevrolet Impala cross the center line while traveling in the 100 block of Gordon Street.

The officer said they suspected the person was driving while impaired and attempted to pull the car over at Washington Drive and Oneka Avenue, but the driver did not stop.

Police said the driver ran a red light and reached speeds of 90 miles per hour on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard as he approached North Centennial Street.

Police said the driver, later identified as Tate, then crossed into the opposite lanes and hit Chambers' sedan head-on at the intersection of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and North Hamilton Street.

On Friday morning, Chambers partner, Quorinna Rainey, laid balloons at the crash site.

"She was my everything. She was my whole world. She meant a lot to a lot of people," Rainey said.

Police said Tate and a passenger in his car were both taken to the hospital. The passenger is in critical condition.

Tate is facing multiple charges, including second-degree murder, felony death by motor vehicle, felony serious injury by motor vehicle, driving while license revoked, driving while impaired, careless and reckless driving and aggravated felony speed to elude arrest.