APPLETON - Two Appleton police officers fired at least one round each after a medical call escalated to shots being fired Wednesday evening at the downtown transit center.

Sgt. Christopher Biese and Officer Paul Christensen have been identified as the two police officers involved in the incident, the Appleton Police Department said in a statement released Friday afternoon.

Christensen was struck by gunfire during the incident, but was released from the hospital Thursday. He was hired by the Appleton Police Department on March 26, 2018. Biese, who wasn't hurt in the shooting, was hired Dec. 13, 2004.

Both officers are currently on administrative assignment in accordance with department policy, police said.

Appleton firefigher Mitchell Lundgaard, 36, was also struck by gunfire and later died at a local hospital.

Lundgaard and other police and fire personnel were responding at about 5:30 p.m. Wednesday to a medical call at Appleton's downtown transit center involving a 47-year-old Wausau man police have identified as Ruben Houston, who was arriving on a bus from out of the area.

Emergency responders at the scene provided Houston with initial medical care on the bus, but Houston was also "encouraged to seek additional medical care," Appleton police said Friday.

Houston started to walk toward the library and the incident escalated to shots being fired, police said. Houston died at the scene. On Thursday, Appleton Police Chief Todd Thomas said Houston — Thomas didn't identify him at the time — displayed a handgun and exchanged shots with officers.

A bystander, Brittany L. Schowalter, 30, was also hit by gunfire. She is recovering from her injuries at a local hospital, police said.

The total number of rounds fired will be determined through the ongoing investigation.

The Green Bay Police Department is investigating the shooting, and its findings will be reviewed by the Outagamie County District Attorney's Office. Appleton and Green Bay police have an agreement to investigate each other's deaths when officers are involved.

State law requires an outside agency to investigate when police kill someone

Contact Chris Mueller at 920-996-7267 or cmueller@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter at @AtChrisMueller.