Police found an armed, suicidal man dead inside his Fort Collins home early Friday morning after an hourslong standoff that began Thursday night.

Just before 11 p.m. Thursday, officers responded to a home in the 400 block of Skyway Drive to multiple reports of a suicidal man in his home. A neighbor also reported hearing a gunshot in the area, and police say the man had a gun and fired it multiple times inside his home.

While set up outside his home, officers were able to contact the man multiple times, but he wasn't cooperating, police say. No other people were in the home.

SWAT team members and crisis negotiators also responded to assist using a variety of tools and tactics in an effort to safely resolve the situation. Police say residents in the area may have heard flash-sound diversion devices, or "flash bangs" being used during the standoff.

Residents in the area were also alerted to shelter in place during the standoff via a reverse 911 call.

Officers were able to enter the home about 5 a.m. — approximately six hours after arriving — and found the man deceased.

No one else was injured in the incident, and the man was the only person who fired a gun, according to police.

The Larimer County Coroner's Office will release the man's name, cause and manner of death at a later time.

Anyone with information about this incident, who has not already spoken to investigators, is asked to contact Det. Brandon Barnes at 970-416-2051 or Crime Stoppers of Larimer County at 970-221-6868.

Suicide warning signs

Feelings of being a burden, entrapment, unbearable pain

Increased anxiety

Isolation

Increased substance abuse

Looking for access to lethal means

Increased anger or rage

Extreme mood swings

Expressions of hopelessness

Sleeping too little or too much

Talking or posting about wanting to die

Making plans for suicide

How to help someone who is struggling

Ask how they're feeling (don't be afraid to use the word "suicide")

Find out how to keep them safe

Be there for the person

Help them connect with resources

Follow up, even when they seem to be happy

SOURCE: U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Help for people in crisis

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255, or call 911.

SummitStone Crisis Stabilization Unit, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: summitstonehealth.org/services/

Poudre Valley Hospital and Medical Center of the Rockies crisis centers: uchealth.org/services/behavioral-health/

Sady Swanson covers crime, courts, public safety and more throughout Northern Colorado. You can send your story ideas to her at sswanson@coloradoan.com or on Twitter at @sadyswan. Support our work and local journalism with a digital subscription at Coloradoan.com/subscribe.