Police on Thursday identified officers involved in a fatal Sunday shooting of a 17-year-old boy as Officer Risa Magnuson and Lt. Greg Westover.

The officers shot at the boy, Robert Rabago, after he shot at police, officials said.

Magnuson has one and a half years of experience with the department, while Westover has 17 years of experience, said Sgt. Vincent Lewis, a spokesman for the Phoenix Police Department.

The incident occurred about 3:10 a.m. Sunday, near 16th and Portland streets in Phoenix.

A Phoenix police sergeant saw four men walking with a beer, Phoenix police said earlier this week.

One person threw a beer bottle at a passing vehicle, officials said. The driver of the vehicle stopped and told police officers that one member of the group was armed with a handgun. When officers attempted to make contact with the group, the individuals ran in different directions.

Police officers encountered three of the men in the 1500 block of East Portland Street as they exited the yard of a residence where they were hiding, according to officials.

Rabago began firing shots at police, officials said.

An officer fired at Rabago as he fled to the north side of apartments at 1110 N. 16th St., Lewis said in a news release.

A police lieutenant saw Rabago running toward 16th Street, according to officials. Rabago fired additional shots over his shoulder at the officers, and the lieutenant returned fire, officials said. Sometime during these exchanges, Rabago was shot, Lewis said.

Rabago ran to 16th Street near the Interstate 10 exit ramp, where he tried to open the doors of a waiting vehicle, officials said. Rabago then collapsed in the road. A firearm was found in his possession, Lewis said.

Police officers attempted lifesaving measures, but Rabago was pronounced dead at the scene, officials said. No officers were injured.

None of the responding officers had been issued body-worn cameras, Lewis said. An investigation is ongoing.

Reach the reporter at bfrank@arizonarepublic.com or follow her on Twitter @brieannafrank.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral today.