A Davenport man suffered a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head during a traffic stop in Rock Island Wednesday morning, Chief Jeff VenHuizen said.

Rock Island County Coroner Brian Gustafson identified the man as Micah Lee Bates Jr., 31.

Bates was wanted on an escape warrant after he walked away from the Davenport Work Release Center where he has been since March 13.

in 2017, he was sentenced to up to 25 years in prison in connection with two shootings and a burglary and eluding case.

Bates failed to report back to the Davenport Work Release Center on Sunday night.

Bates was pronounced brain dead at 2:55 p.m. He is being kept alive for potential major organ donation.

On Wednesday, Davenport police wanted to speak to Bates regarding two shooting incidents in the city Tuesday night and Wednesday morning.

Speaking at the scene, VenHuizen said his department was assisting the Davenport Police Department with an ongoing investigation.

Davenport police said in a media release Wednesday afternoon that officers were following up on a shooting that occurred at 10:12 p.m. Tuesday at 7th and Myrtle Streets where a man suffered a non-life-threatening gunshot wound.

With the assistance of officers from Rock Island, Moline and the Rock Island County Sheriff’s Department, a traffic stop was conducted in the 4500 block of 15th Avenue on a vehicle occupied by the suspect involved in the Davenport shooting.

VenHuizen said the traffic stop happened around 8:40 a.m.

As the traffic stop unfolded, a shot was fired from inside the SUV. Officers removed several occupants from the vehicle and found Bates in the backseat.

Bates was taken to Trinity Rock Island, where he was pronounced brain dead.

The other occupants of the vehicle were detained and taken to the police department, VenHuizen said.

The Times typically does not report on apparent suicides. In this case, we made an exception because it occurred in a public place and police officers were present.

One firearm was found in the vehicle. Officers did not fire any shots, VenHuizen said.

A tactical team was called to the scene and were “sitting on” a nearby house that was “related to the occupants of the car,” he said.

“There were possibly some additional individuals that we were looking for that could have been in the house, so they secured the house to see if there was anybody in there,” VenHuizen said.

Officers did not find anyone in the house, he added. He said no homes in the area were evacuated but neighbors were asked to stay inside.

“These situations are always very dynamic, very fluid,” he said. “There’s a lot of chaos initially to start with, but we were able to contain the scene relatively quickly. We had a lot of resources in place to not let this expand any further than where it did, and it was successful from the standpoint that there were no other injuries.”

VenHuizen added there is no reason to believe there are any additional threats to the community.

While police were on the scene, several neighbors stood outside to see what was happening.

Mauricia Burrage, who lives a few blocks away, said she heard the commotion. She said the incident was “super alarming” and that the area is usually quiet.

“I hope that whatever happened here is resolved and we don’t have to have any more problems like this again,” Burrage said.

The other shooting incident occurred at 12:08 a.m., Wednesday. Officers were dispatched to the Goose Creek area for a shots-fired call. While on the scene, officers were notified that a man had walked into a local hospital with a non-life-threatening gunshot wound.

Detectives are still trying to determine if the two shootings in Davenport are related, police said in the media release.