Emily Bloch ebloch@jacksonville.com

When police deputies told Yvonne Hamlow to open her front door overnight, she hesitated. A former armed guard, she knew what gunshots sounded like — she knew something was going on.

“I ain’t opening the door for anyone here,” the Tanglewood community resident said. Hamlow drew her front window’s curtains open and had the Clay County Sheriff’s Office deputy point his flashlight to his badge. That’s when she found out more about the commotion behind her house.

Deputies Brandon Senters, Jacob Adams and Michael Tapawan shot and killed a suspect early Wednesday following a domestic-related altercation in Orange Park, according to the Sheriff's Office.

They were called about 1 a.m. to Stagecoach Drive and Tanglewood Boulevard where a woman said the man had become violent, breaking things in a fit of rage, Sheriff's Office spokesman Christopher Padgett said. She was able to leave the home, but a child was still inside with the man.

When the three deputies made contact with the man, they said he pointed a gun at them outside the home forcing them to open fire. The man, only described as in his 40s, was killed on scene, Padgett said. It did not appear that the suspect fired his weapon. The child and deputies were not harmed.

The suspect's name hasn't been released to the public, nor the exact relationship of those involved, as the Florida Department of Law Enforcement is now handling the investigation.

Perching from her black cane, Hamlow, who has lived in a house on Tumbleweed Boulevard — behind the listed crime scene — for 24 years, described what she heard.

“I heard bang, bang, bang, bang, bang six times and said, ‘Oh me, something’s going on behind the house.'” The noise caused Hamlow’s 4-pound “chi-weenie,” a dachshund-chihuahua mix named Lil’ Bit, to manically start barking and jump into her owner’s arms.

Hours later, crime scene tape was draped around her shed and a tree between her and a neighbor’s home.

Hamlow said she wasn’t too surprised to see a scene like this take place in her neighborhood.

“The last 10 years it’s gotten to be rowdy,” she said. “We wanted to put a fence up for that reason.” Hamlow continued, “we had a problem a year before, someone kept shaking the door and trying to get in.”

Resident Chris Bogacki had a similar response.

“We hear pops but they do the carnival here so they have firecrackers, but I can distinguish fireworks from a gunshot,” Bogacki said. “We have a lot of renters down here and you just don’t know your neighbor.”

Bogacki and his wife bought their house in the Tanglewood community almost three years ago. He said they’ve lived in rough areas before but it doesn’t make it any easier.

“It’s a scary thing to think about because my wife woke me up trying to figure out what to do, do we need to duck?” he said. “Even though these homes look like brick, it’s stucco, so handguns could easily go through.”

This was the first suspect shot and killed by a Clay County deputy since Feb. 2, 2017, according to Times-Union records.

Emily Bloch: (904) 359-4083