SOUTH RIVER – A borough man who barricaded himself inside his home Wednesday died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said.

The identity of the man, who was pronounced dead at the scene, was not released.

The South River Police Department and the Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office Special Operations Response Team (SORT) responded to the Beryl Street residence at about 10:30 a.m., Middlesex County Prosecutor Andrew C. Carey and South River Police Chief Mark Tinitigan said in a statement.

Police were seen entering the home, located in a quiet residential neighborhood, around 12:15 p.m.

One shot was fired inside the home, and no shots were fired by law enforcement, authorities said.

An autopsy is pending by the Middlesex County Medical Examiner’s Office.

Chris Rowe, a resident who has lived in the neighborhood for 30 years, said he saw police arrive and went outside. He said SORT then arrived on the scene.

Middlesex County's SORT responds to hostage situations and barricaded subjects.

The team of highly trained personnel consists of law enforcement officers from the Middlesex County Prosecutor’s Office, Middlesex County Sheriff’s Department, Middlesex County Adult Corrections and police agencies throughout the county, according to Middlesex County's website.

The South River Police Department issued a statement on its Facebook page around 11:45 a.m.

"There is an ongoing incident in South River which has resulted in heavy police activity. This incident is isolated and contained," the police said in a statement. "There is NO THREAT to residents or the community. Due to the nature of the incident, we are unable to release further information or details at this time."

Authorities at the scene could be heard speaking on a loudspeaker device.

During the incident, some residents, who live in close proximity to the home, were told by authorities to go back in their houses. Others said they had gone out and when they returned to the area they were not permitted on the street. At about 12:30 p.m. residents were allowed to return home. Law enforcement began to leave the scene and the street was reopened a short time later.

Contributing: Staff Writer Nick Muscavage

Susan Loyer covers Middlesex County for the USA TODAY NETWORK New Jersey. Contact her at 732-565-7243 or sloyer@gannettnj.com.