Upstate deputy shoots, kills man who held homeowner at gunpoint, sheriff says

A 47-year-old man was shot and killed by a deputy after the man held a homeowner at gunpoint and stole his truck, officials say. Deputies were called at 5:15 a.m. to a home in the 800 block of Holly Springs Church Road in Inman.Sheriff Chuck Wright said the call came in as a vehicle theft.The homeowner told deputies a man knocked on his door, pointed a gun at him and demanded the keys to his truck, Wright said.The homeowner gave the man his keys and called 911, according to Wright.When deputies arrived, the armed man, later identified as David Marcus Reece, was outside the home, Wright said.A deputy said when he confronted Reece, he pointed a gun him, Wright said.The deputy fired his gun in response, killing Reece, Wright said. The deputy and the homeowner and his wife, who was also inside the home, were not injured.The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is investigating, as is normal protocol in a deputy-involved shooting. There is no dash camera video of the incident, SLED said.

A 47-year-old man was shot and killed by a deputy after the man held a homeowner at gunpoint and stole his truck, officials say.

Deputies were called at 5:15 a.m. to a home in the 800 block of Holly Springs Church Road in Inman.

Advertisement

Sheriff Chuck Wright said the call came in as a vehicle theft.

The homeowner told deputies a man knocked on his door, pointed a gun at him and demanded the keys to his truck, Wright said.

WYFF Sky 4

The homeowner gave the man his keys and called 911, according to Wright.

When deputies arrived, the armed man, later identified as David Marcus Reece, was outside the home, Wright said.

A deputy said when he confronted Reece, he pointed a gun him, Wright said.

The deputy fired his gun in response, killing Reece, Wright said.

The deputy and the homeowner and his wife, who was also inside the home, were not injured.

The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is investigating, as is normal protocol in a deputy-involved shooting. There is no dash camera video of the incident, SLED said.