A 33-year-old man suspected of shooting at a Clackamas County deputy last year and has been on the lam for months was killed last week by U.S. Marshals and police in northern Wisconsin.

U.S. Marshals and local police officers seeking to arrest Joseph M. Tedrick on an active warrant found him at a home May 22 in Ashland, Wisconsin, according to the Wisconsin Department of Justice. At some point, Tedrick got into a car and hit a U.S. Marshal’s car.

Tedrick appeared to be holding a handgun as he was trying to get out of his car and was shot by two deputy Marshals and one Sheboygan, Wisconsin police officer who was part of the Marshals-led team apprehending him, the Justice Department said. Sheboygan is more than 300 miles southeast of Ashland.

Tedrick died at the scene. No one else was injured. It’s not clear why Tedrick was in Wisconsin and if he had any connection to the home where authorities found him. It’s also not clear how they located him.

The Wisconsin Department of Justice didn’t immediately respond to comment Friday. The agency identified Tedrick as the person killed this week.

A Clackamas County grand jury indicted Tedrick May 14 on suspicion of shooting at Deputy Ashley Walker in September 2018. Walker wasn’t injured and officers didn’t find Tedrick at the time.

He wasn’t formally linked to the shooting until the indictment on charges of attempted aggravated murder, attempted murder, attempted first-degree assault, unlawful use of a weapon, second-degree criminal mischief, felon in possession of a firearm and reckless burning.

Tedrick had been out of jail in Oregon since October 10 after he posting bail then failing to appear on charges tied to a different case that made headlines last year in Portland.

According to a probable cause affidavit, Portland police patrol officers responded a little before noon August 4 to reports of a man driving erratically with a child in the back seat. The officers found the parked car still running near North Anchor Way and Harbour Drive and saw Tedrick “nodding off” in the driver’s seat as a 5-year-old girl sat in the back.

Tedrick sped away after officers told him to shut the car off, the affidavit said. The officers gave chase down Marine Drive as Tedrick weaved in and out of traffic, the court documents said. Officers eventually stopped following the car because “the risk to the child was deemed too great,” the affidavit said. At some point, Tedrick turned around and drove back toward police.

Tedrick drove over spike strips placed by police and got out of the car, the court papers said. He ran from officers and jumped into the Columbia River, swimming in the water for about 45 minutes until he was fished out by Multnomah County Sheriff’s Office River Patrol, according to the affidavit. He claimed he’d swallowed a bag of oxycodone and was taken to a hospital before being booked into jail.

The girl identified Tedrick as her babysitter. The girl’s mother wouldn’t tell police Tedrick’s name and would only identify him as a “new boyfriend”, the affidavit said. Investigators found his name tagged on photos of the couple on the woman’s Facebook page.

Tedrick was arrested then released the next day through the county’s pretrial services supervision program, court records show.

A Multnomah County Circuit Court judge issued a warrant for Tedrick’s arrest that September because he didn’t show up to have a GPS monitor placed on him as part of the conditions of his release, court records show.

Deputy Walker responded about three weeks later to a report of a suspicious person in the Sandy area and heard what sounded like a gunshot hit her patrol car after pulling up, according to the Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office.

Walker drove away, called for backup and stayed in the area until they arrived, the sheriff’s office said. When they returned to where the suspicious car was parked, it was on fire, the sheriff’s office said.

The patrol car was later determined to have been hit by a bullet. The person who fired wasn’t found. The sheriff’s office said detectives later determined Tedrick was the suspect, but haven’t said how they eventually linked him to the crime.

Tedrick was arrested in Canby about two weeks after the shooting on a warrant tied to the Portland police chase. He posted bail two days later and was ordered to appear in Multnomah County court the next day, court records show. He never appeared, and a warrant was issued for his arrest.

Tedrick’s criminal history dates back to at least the late-2000s, court records show.

He was sentenced February 2009 to 7 years in prison for shooting his friend in the leg the year before. The then-20-year-old friend told police at the time that the two got into an argument after he accidentally hit Tedrick in the neck while playing basketball in the Bethany area and didn’t call it a foul, according to a police report.

Tedrick, then 21, later went to his car, returned with a handgun and shot his friend in the leg, the report said. The friend survived and Tedrick was found and arrested hours later at his apartment in Troutdale.

-- Everton Bailey Jr.

ebailey@oregonian.com | 503-221-8343 |@EvertonBailey

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.