Hunter Ingram StarNews Staff

WILMINGTON -- Police have released the identity of the man who died Wednesday night in an officer-involved shooting in the Pine Valley neighborhood.

Gerald Tremblay, 62, was shot and killed by Wilmington police officers after they responded to a report of shots fired in the 600 block of Owens Court around 7 p.m.

When they arrived on the scene, police said Tremblay exited his home with multiple firearms and refused to comply with officer commands to lay down his weapons, resulting in police shooting him.

Wilmington officers Scott Bramley and Brian Wilson have been put on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of three investigations into the shooting.

The State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) is leading one investigation into the incident, while the department is conducting an internal review and an investigation into the initial call of shots fired.

The nearly 10-minute 911 call that prompted the visit to Tremblay’s residence was made at 6:56 p.m. Wednesday by a woman who described Tremblay as her husband.

“He’s been drinking, and he hasn’t had anything to eat, and I tried to feed him and he threw the food out in ... the back porch and now he’s barricaded himself,” the woman tells dispatchers. “And I tried to talk him out of it, but he took the gun and shot it through the roof in the ceiling. And I’m just petrified.”

The woman told dispatchers that her husband was in possession of a handgun, and fired a single shot into the bedroom ceiling. Police radio traffic states that at 7:10 p.m., officers observed the man with two guns, one semi-automatic and one automatic.

The traffic log states that the man “requested that we shoot him.”

According to New Hanover County property records, the home at which the shooting occurred has been owned by the same couple since 1994. During the 911 call, the woman told dispatchers that she and her husband had been together for more than 30 years.

Reporter Hunter Ingram can be reached at 910-343-2327 or Hunter.Ingram@StarNewsOnline.com.