Update at 10 a.m.

The man Anderson police shot and killed Saturday at a group home has been identified as Nikolai Landry, the Shasta County Coroner’s Office said Wednesday.

Landry was 27.

The coroner’s office said it has notified his family. The agency investigating the shooting is the Redding Police Department.

Original story

The man Anderson police shot and killed Saturday at a group home continually pointed a BB gun that they mistook for a more lethal weapon, officers said.

The identity of the shooting victim still hasn't been released.

Officers said the incident started at 4:24 p.m., when someone called dispatchers to report a man around 20 who walked into the backyard of a home on Lodgepole Avenue with his hands seemingly cuffed in front of him, said Redding police officers, who are investigating the shooting.

The person said the man was at a group home, but she didn't know whether he was a resident and didn't specify what kind of group home, officers said.

When officers got there, the man was sitting at a picnic table and wasn't wearing handcuffs, but the officers said he appeared to be holding a semi-automatic gun under his left arm.

Officers said the man immediately brandished that gun and wouldn't follow commands, so the responding officers went back to a patrol vehicle.

They started negotiating with the man using crisis-intervention techniques for over 20 minutes, officers said, but the man wouldn't listen and kept brandishing the gun the whole time.

Eventually, the man grabbed the gun with two hands in a way that led officers to believe he was loading a semi-automatic, they said. The man leaned forward, seemingly to get a better look at officers, and pointed the gun at them with both hands when one of the officers shot him and he fell to the ground, the Redding Police Department said.

When officers got to the man, he still had his finger on the trigger of the gun and the handcuffs in one of his pockets, officers said.

Officers and medics tried to save him but he died at the scene.

The gun turned out to be a spring-air BB pistol, which officers said was "identical in appearance to a genuine Beretta 92 handgun."

"The weapon did not have an orange or red tip, and bore no visible markings which would allow it to be distinguished from a Beretta 92 handgun at a distance," RPD wrote in a press release.

Investigators said they don't know where the man got the gun or cuffs, though they noted both items are legal to own and can be purchased easily.

The officer who shot the man hasn't been identified and is on paid administrative leave while the investigation continues.

The officers involved in the incident include a 12-year employee who trains field officers and handles a police dog, a five-year veteran who's on the SWAT team and a four-year officer who also trains field officers and is on the department's crisis negotiation team, police said.

More:Reports: Man shot in neck at Redding Library; suspect on the loose

More:Anderson residents look for answers after police shooting

More:Police: K-9 Otto helps apprehend wanted felon in Redding

Alayna Shulman covers a little bit of everything for the Record Searchlight. In particular, she loves writing about the issues of this community through long-form storytelling. Her work often centers on local crime, features and politics, and has won awards for best writing, best business coverage and best investigative reporting in the California News Publishers Association's Better Newspapers Contest. Follow her on Twitter (@ashulman_RS), call her at 530-225-8372 and, to support her work, please subscribe.