Simpson County, Miss. (WLBT) - The father of Mississippi Agriculture Commissioner Andy Gipson was shot and killed in a situation involving law enforcement officials.

Officials confirm an incident happened involving Harry Gipson and law enforcement officers and it could be related to a mental illness he reportedly had caused from a brain injury.

Law enforcement sources say that Harry Gipson was shot by a Simpson Co. deputy after Gipson discharged a firearm in their presence.

Therese Apel is on the scene of the investigation (WATCH):

Ag Commissioner Andy Gipson’s father has been killed WLBT 3 On Your Side Posted by Therese Apel on Thursday, June 6, 2019

Andy Gipson said in a statement, “My father passed away tragically after a years-long struggle with a brain injury and related illness. Please pray for our family and we ask for a period of privacy to grieve.”

I’m very sad to tell you my father passed away tragically this morning after a years-long struggle with a brain injury... Posted by Commissioner Andy Gipson on Thursday, June 6, 2019

Gipson later posted his father’s eulogy, which included his work as a homebuilder, a missionary and pastor, and his vision to build up the Hilltop Children’s Ranch on his property, which he believed would serve children of all backgrounds.

The eulogy also touched on Harry Gipson’s traumatic brain injury, which was caused by several major incidents in his life, including a mule wagon wreck, a serious fall off of a forklift, and a life-threatening motorcycle wreck.

According to mayoclinic.com, traumatic brain injury can have wide-ranging physical and psychological effects, including agitation, combativeness, agitation and mood swings.

Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant tweeted a comment shortly after news of the incident broke, “Deborah and I offer our deepest sympathy to Andy and his family. I am certain his faith and our prayers will bring him through this tragedy.”

The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation is on scene and is actively investigating.

MBI released this statement:

At the request of the Simpson County Sheriff’s Department, the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation is currently investigating the circumstances that led to an officer involved shooting that occurred Thursday morning in Simpson County. All investigative findings will be shared with the District Attorney’s office throughout the process for consideration and review. The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation will refrain from further comment regarding this ongoing case in order to protect the integrity of the investigation. As is our policy, MBI does not identify officers involved in these types of incidents, and instead refers questions of that nature to the respective agency.

This is a developing story.

Copyright 2019 WLBT. All rights reserved.