Police identify gunman shot, killed by officers after shooting at vehicles on I-35

Police have identified a gunman who was shot and killed by officers after he was seen firing shots at vehicles on I-35 in Oklahoma City.According to police, just before 10:30 a.m. Monday, officers responded to a report of a man walking in the southbound lanes of I-35 at Northeast 10th Street, shooting at passing vehicles with a handgun. The suspect, later identified as 24-year-old Vincense Dewayne Williams Jr. of Oklahoma City, was on the west side of the interstate when Sergeant Wesley Parsons and Sergeant Dustin Fulton arrived at the scene, according to police. Officers gave commands for Williams to drop the gun. He dropped the gun, put his hands up, bent back down, picked up the gun and faced the officers, according to police. Both officers discharged their firearms and struck Williams. He went to the ground, and EMSA was requested for medical attention, police said. Williams was later pronounced dead at the scene. Police said they do not have reports of vehicles being struck by the gunfire. Neither officer was injured during the incident. Parsons and Fulton have been placed on paid administrative leave.

Police have identified a gunman who was shot and killed by officers after he was seen firing shots at vehicles on I-35 in Oklahoma City.

According to police, just before 10:30 a.m. Monday, officers responded to a report of a man walking in the southbound lanes of I-35 at Northeast 10th Street, shooting at passing vehicles with a handgun.

The suspect, later identified as 24-year-old Vincense Dewayne Williams Jr. of Oklahoma City, was on the west side of the interstate when Sergeant Wesley Parsons and Sergeant Dustin Fulton arrived at the scene, according to police.

Officers gave commands for Williams to drop the gun. He dropped the gun, put his hands up, bent back down, picked up the gun and faced the officers, according to police. Both officers discharged their firearms and struck Williams. He went to the ground, and EMSA was requested for medical attention, police said.

Williams was later pronounced dead at the scene.

Police said they do not have reports of vehicles being struck by the gunfire. Neither officer was injured during the incident.

Parsons and Fulton have been placed on paid administrative leave.