A suspected carjacker who was fatally shot in a confrontation with deputies that also left a motorist and a Murrieta police service dog wounded was identified Monday.

Ysidro Osornio Velasquez, 32, died in the predawn hours Sunday after he allegedly pulled a gun on Riverside County sheriff’s deputies and was shot at the end of a pursuit in Menifee.

According to Deputy Mike Vasquez, Velasquez allegedly accosted a motorist in the area of Hahn and Scott roads in Menifee about 3:50 a.m. Sunday. He pulled a pistol on the victim, who accelerated away from the location, at which point the suspect fired a shot at him, inflicting a non-life-threatening wound, the deputy alleged.

Roughly an hour later, Velasquez allegedly approached another motorist stopped near the same intersection and also leveled a pistol at that victim, who surrendered the keys to his BMW sedan.

Vasquez said the carjacking was immediately reported, and area law enforcement personnel began searching for the suspect.

“The vehicle was located in the city of Lake Elsinore, and when deputies attempted to stop the vehicle, a pursuit ensued,” Vasquez said. “Deputies received assistance from the Murrieta Police Department, whose officers aided in the pursuit.”

The ensuing 12-mile chase ended in the 32000 block of Garland Lane in Menifee, where Velasquez bailed out of the BMW and allegedly pointed a handgun at his pursuers, who opened fire, according to Vasquez.

During the gunfire, police K9 “Mick” was struck in the lower neck, according to Murrieta police. It was unclear whether a round from the suspect’s handgun, or a law enforcement officer’s bullet hit the dog.

The Belgian Malinois underwent emergency surgery at California Veterinary Specialists in Murrieta and was released to his handler within hours. According to the police department, the canine is recovering well.

Velasquez died at the scene.

The motorist wounded during the attempted carjacking underwent treatment and is recovering, according to the sheriff’s department.