Police said they arrested three other suspects.

Example video title will go here for this video

WASHINGTON -- Police identified the suspect shot and killed during a gun store robbery in Rockville, Md. as a 17-year-old from Anne Arundel County.

Friday afternoon, The Montgomery County Department of Police said Marquis Weems died after being shot during a robbery of United Gun Store, which is in the 5400 block of Randolph Road.

Police said officers responded to a report of a robbery at the store at about 2:35 a.m. on June 13, where a car had driven into the gun shop.

As an one stepped out of his cruiser, the suspects' vehicle - a white SUV - accelerated towards him and hit the car, disabling it.

"During the encounter, the officer discharged his service weapon," Montgomery County police said in a statement. They said the white SUV made it another quarter of a mile before breaking down in front of Loemann's Shopping Center, and four suspects got out and ran away.

Officers found the fifth suspect, identified Friday afternoon as Weems, unresponsive inside the car. They said in a statement they tried to save him, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.

Friday afternoon, officials said three people were arrested in connection with the case, Brandon Allen Jackson, 17; Terrence Massey Jr., 21; and a third person who is only 15. Police did not identify the 15-year-old because they were charged as a juvenile. Jackson was charged as an adult.

All three of the suspects charged were from Anne Arundel County in Maryland.

Police said the officer who fired at the SUV, John Gloss, a 20-year veteran, assigned to the Patrol Services Bureau, is on administrative leave pending review.

They found 17 of the guns, but were still looking for 10 more stolen from the Rockville incident.

Montgomery County police said another store, Fox's Firearms in the 11200 block of Scaggsville Road in Howard County was burglarized the same way on Wednesday.

MCPD said Howard County Police are still investigating and plan to file similar charges in the near future.