Deputies shot and killed a man after he violently swung a bar stool at them during a dispute, officials said. The incident sparked a massive crime scene that blocked off almost all of Fort Clinch Avenue in Orange County on Tuesday.Orange County Sheriff John Mina said his deputies got a 911 call from a house around 12:45 p.m. Tuesday, saying a man was being violent with his mother.When deputies arrived, they said Eddie Segura, 40, attacked them with a bar stool as they were trying to arrest him.Deputies shot and killed Segura, according to investigators. Authorities said a relative of Segura was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.Neighbors living nearby say they can't believe this happened on their quiet road."Very surprising when you come on your street and it's blocked off with a bunch of cop cars. You don't know what to think," neighbor Tamara Ray said.Two deputies are now in the hospital with minor injuries on their arms from defending themselves.The Sheriff's Office says deputies have been called to the house six times before and they flagged the address as possibly having someone who could turn violent.In 2015, Segura was arrested for battering a police officer. According to that arrest report, deputies used a taser around three times during the incident. The shooting is being investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

Deputies shot and killed a man after he violently swung a bar stool at them during a dispute, officials said.



The incident sparked a massive crime scene that blocked off almost all of Fort Clinch Avenue in Orange County on Tuesday.

Advertisement

Orange County Sheriff John Mina said his deputies got a 911 call from a house around 12:45 p.m. Tuesday, saying a man was being violent with his mother.

When deputies arrived, they said Eddie Segura, 40, attacked them with a bar stool as they were trying to arrest him.

Deputies shot and killed Segura, according to investigators. Authorities said a relative of Segura was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.

Neighbors living nearby say they can't believe this happened on their quiet road.

"Very surprising when you come on your street and it's blocked off with a bunch of cop cars. You don't know what to think," neighbor Tamara Ray said.

Two deputies are now in the hospital with minor injuries on their arms from defending themselves.

The Sheriff's Office says deputies have been called to the house six times before and they flagged the address as possibly having someone who could turn violent.



In 2015, Segura was arrested for battering a police officer. According to that arrest report, deputies used a taser around three times during the incident.

The shooting is being investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.