It was violent weekend across Jefferson County with five people killed in less than 32 hours.

All five deaths stemmed from shootings, including a couple found slain in their Warrior home, an Ensley man killed during an exchange of gunfire with Birmingham police in Hueytown and another man shot during a suspected robbery at a southwest Birmingham home.

The Jefferson County Coroner’s Office on Monday identified the five homicide victims as Demegious McAlle Osborne, 42, Kristy Lynn Pickett, 26, Tommy Ervin Shyrie, 58, Nicklous Laterrious Marina, 24, and Jamarcus Dejun Moore, 28.

Moore’s death stemmed from a running gun battle with Birmingham police that started during a traffic stop in Ensley, traveled along Interstate 20/59 and ended on Allison-Bonnett Memorial Drive in Hueytown.

Birmingham police officers tried to conduct a traffic stop at 11:29 p.m. Saturday on Avenue I at 21st Street. The driver refused to stop, and a pursuit ensued. Birmingham police spokesman Officer Rod Mauldin said it wasn’t immediately clear if Moore or his female friend was driving.

The chase traveled along I-20/59 southbound, with one of the suspects firing at police and officers returning fire. A radio call of an officer needing all assistance was broadcast citywide, and officers from all four precincts, as well as Hueytown police, responded to the scene.

The driver exited the interstate on 19th Street in Bessemer and then traveled along Hueytown Road. The chase then turned right onto Allison-Bonnett Memorial Parkway, where Moore’s vehicle crashed into a police car.

Mauldin said shots were exchanged again, and both suspects struck. The crash and second round of gunfire happened at 11:53 p.m. and Moore was pronounced dead on the scene at 12:11 a.m.

The female was taken to UAB Hospital. The extent of her injuries wasn’t immediately known. An officer was hospitalized with a knee injury.

The State Bureau of Investigation is taking over the investigation, which is routine for all officer involved shootings.

At roughly the same time in southwest Birmingham, police say shots were fired during a robbery at a home. The incident happened at 11:40 p.m. at 2800 Thyer Circle. Once on the scene, police and medics found three people wounded by gunfire.

Marina, who lived on the city’s eastside, was pronounced dead at UAB Hospital at 12:36 a.m. Sunday. Two other gunshot victims were taken to UAB Hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.

Police have not yet announced any arrests in that incident.

A couple was found dead early Saturday, June 15, 2019, inside their Bethel Road home.

Early Saturday, and on the opposite end of the county, the bodies of a husband and wife - Pickett and Shyrie - were found shot to death in their Warrior home.

Jefferson County sheriff’s deputies were dispatched late Friday to their home in the 3500 block of Bethel Road in Warrior after concerned family members requested a welfare check, said sheriff’s Capt. David Agee. Once at the location, deputies made entry into the home and found the victims dead.

The couple was pronounced dead at 12:43 a.m. Saturday. That investigation is ongoing.

On Friday, Osborne was shot to death in a north Birmingham neighborhood. Birmingham police and Birmingham Fire and Rescue Service medics responded to the 900 block of Ninth Street North just after 3 p.m.

Officers said they arrived at the location to find Osborne lying next to a vehicle. He was pronounced dead on the scene at 3:24 p.m.

Authorities said it appears Osborne was sitting in his vehicle when he was approached by another man and some kind of exchange took place. Police have not said whether the two knew each other.

So far this year, there have been 54 homicides in Birmingham. Of those at least seven have been ruled justifiable and therefore are not deemed criminal by the Birmingham Police Department. In all of Jefferson County, there have been 82 slayings including the 54 in Birmingham.

Anyone with information on the Birmingham homicides is asked to call homicide investigators at 205-254-1764. Information on the Jefferson County homicides can be called into the sheriff’s office at 205-325-1450. Tipsters who wish to remain anonymous and qualify for a cash reward can call Crime Stoppers at 205-254-7777.