The Racine Police Department on Friday released a 170-page report on the death of 18-year-old Tyrese West, shot and killed by a Mount Pleasant police officer in June.

The investigative report, released to fulfill open records requests, comes after Racine County District Attorney Patricia Hanson decided last week not to charge Sgt. Eric Giese in West’s death.

"His actions put Sergeant Giese at a disadvantage that he could not overcome by other means," Hanson said in an earlier 23-page report that had provided the most information yet on the circumstances surrounding the shooting.

In that report, Hanson described the following: Giese in his squad car tried to stop West, who was riding a bike about 1:30 a.m. West, who was armed, did not stop, and a chase ensued – the two ended up ditching the squad and bike and running on foot.

Giese believes that West threw the gun and fell to the ground near a fence in a field. Giese stood over him and stepped on West’s hand to try to stop the teen from reaching the gun on the ground. Eventually West wriggled free and had access to his gun, prompting Giese to shoot West three times.

The newly released document includes narratives from other officers who responded to the scene in the early morning hours of June 15 after the shooting.

Here are four details of the encounter that the report makes clear.

Police didn’t identify West until hours after the shooting.

Giese did not know who West was as he tried to pull over his bike for riding without lights. Investigators at first believed he was a certain individual, but in contacting the family, they learned the person was in a treatment facility. Police eventually fingerprinted him and identified him.

His mother, Monique West, told the Racine Journal Times that it took authorities 16 hours to inform her family of his death.

The district attorney’s report noted West was in a stolen car with friends that police chased an evening before. Giese was not aware of this incident when he encountered West on his bike hours later.

Giese dropped his Taser after it deployed and the prongs failed to reach West.

According to the district attorney’s report, Giese deployed his Taser while chasing West on foot. The prongs didn’t reach West, and West continued running.

Police investigating the scene found Giese’s Taser in the grass as well as some cartridge pieces indicating it was spent.

Giese had both hands full during the chase, holding his radio in one hand because it was new and he couldn't clip it onto his uniform. After the Taser failed he apparently dropped it and reached for his gun.

Officers who responded to the scene later found West’s body was handcuffed.

Giese called for backup after he shot West. One of the first responding officers asked for a medical kit to try to save West’s life. The officer cut open his shirt to reach a gunshot wound on his chest and worked for about two minutes before paramedics arrived. Lifesaving efforts ultimately were unsuccessful.

Investigators who arrived at the scene documented the location of relevant items, including West’s body — near a fence — and his gun — about 2 feet away from him.

They also noted West’s hands were handcuffed in front of his body.

One female witness saw Giese chase West on foot.

Giese did not turn on his body camera during the pursuit and he did not have any other officers with him. The report reveals that one female motorist, whose identity is redacted in the report, saw Giese’s squad car with its lights on.

She pulled to the side of the road to allow Giese’s squad to pass, and then she watched as he tried to block West’s bicycle and the two began a foot chase. She then did a U-turn and saw Giese standing over West. She thought he might be “waiting for backup” and talking on his radio.

The witness called police the next day to report what she had seen after hearing news reports of West’s death.

Giese has worked at the Mount Pleasant Police Department since 2006 and was promoted to sergeant in 2018. He served with the Army National Guard for 22 years and was in the Marine Corps for four years. He teaches some law enforcement training courses at Gateway Technical College in Kenosha.

RELATED:Mount Pleasant officer who killed teen won't be charged, district attorney says

Contact Sophie Carson at (414) 223-5512 or scarson@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter at @SCarson_News.