Timeline of events: Investigation into fatal shooting of Eric Logan by police officer

In the early morning hours of June 16, 2019, Eric Logan was shot by South Bend Police Sergeant Ryan O'Neill in the parking lot of the Central High School apartments.

O'Neill told investigators he shot Logan after Logan raised a knife and approached him.

Here is a timeline of events gathered from police reports, press conferences and related documents in the case.

TIMELINE

June 16, 2019

Around 3:30 a.m. on Sunday, June 16, 2019, St. Joseph County dispatch received a call about a person going through cars near the 100 block of N. William.

When South Bend Police Sergeant Ryan O'Neill arrived to the parking lot of the Central High School apartments, he located 54-year-old Eric Jack Logan partially in a vehicle, reports said.

O'Neill told investigators Logan had a knife in his right hand after he got out of the car and raised his arm and walked towards O'Neill.

O'Neill said he told Logan to drop the knife several times. When Logan failed to drop the knife, he fired two shots, reports said.

At 3:33 a.m., O'Neill reported shots fired and requested an ambulance. At 3:35 a.m., a decision was made to transport Logan to the hospital in a squad car, according to reports.

Logan was later pronounced deceased at the hospital.

Related story: Man killed in officer-involved shooting identified

June 17, 2019

An autopsy was conducted on Logan in Fort Wayne. It determined Logan died of a gunshot wound to the abdomen.

Investigators held a press conference about the shooting. During the press conference, police revealed the knife Logan was holding had been stolen from a vehicle on Taylor Street.

Investigators also revealed Sergeant O'Neill's body camera was not recording at the time of the incident.

Related story: St. Joseph County Metro Homicide identifies officer involved in fatal shooting

June 18, 2019

South Bend Police remind officers they are required to turn on their body cameras during all interactions with citizens:

“Officers should activate their body cameras during all work-related interactions with civilians. This Order reminds all personnel of our Body Camera Activation Policy #424.6 and the expectation that all enforcement and investigative contacts, traffic stops (including back-up), field interviews, and self-initiated contacts shall be recorded. This includes non-emergency call responses and any time there is civilian contact in relation to a complaint. Please see your Division Chief if you have any questions.”

Related story: Lack of body cam footage explained

June 24, 2019

St. Joseph County Prosecutor Ken Cotter requests a special prosecutor be appointed to investigate the officer-involved shooting.

Related story: St. Joseph County Prosecutor requests special prosecutor for officer involved shooting investigation

June 26, 2019

Eric Logan's family files a wrongful death lawsuit

Related story: Family files federal lawsuit in fatal shooting of Eric Logan

July 3, 2019

Richard Hertel, a prosecutor in Ripley County, accepts the appointment as special prosecutor in this case.

Related story: Special prosecutor accepts appointment

July 9, 2019

Richard Hertel, a prosecutor in Ripley County, holds a press conference to discuss his role and the possible outcomes of the investigation

Related story: Special prosecutor investigating South Bend Police shooting explains his role, possible outcomes of investigation

July 15, 2019

Sergeant Ryan O'Neill resigns from the South Bend Police Department, "I write to inform you that I hereby, effective immediately, voluntarily resign from the South Bend Police Department. As a result of the stresses and pressure of recent events, I recognize that I am no longer able to effectively stay with the agency."

Related story: Sergeant Ryan O'Neill resigns from the South Bend Police Department

Click here to read all stories related to the Eric Logan fatal shooting