Syracuse, NY -- A 74-year-old man,fatally shot by police Tuesday after appearing to point a gun at officers, actually had a starter pistol, Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick told Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard.

It’s unclear why DeWayne Watkins, of 319 W. Calthrop Ave., apparently pointed the starter pistol -- which the DA said looks like a real gun -- at officers. The investigation is ongoing.

Firefighters first came to Watkins’ residence around 10 a.m. for a medical call, Police Chief Kenton Buckner said earlier Tuesday. Firefighters then asked the police department to respond to the scene for backup, he said.

When the man pointed what appeared to be a gun at police, an officer shot him, the chief said. The officer was not hurt. The officer’s name has not yet been released.

The shooting happened at Watkins’ residence, 319 W. Calthrop Ave., police said.

Syracuse Mayor Ben Walsh offered sympathy for everyone involved in the deadly incident.

“It’s a sad day for the community,” Walsh said Tuesday evening as he was leaving an event about the Interstate 81 project in Syracuse.

“I spent a lot of time today thinking of everyone who was involved – the Watkins family, the police officers, the firefighters, who were first on the scene,” the mayor said. “That’s a traumatic experience for everyone involved.”

Walsh said one officer involved in the shooting is on paid administrative leave. That’s protocol for officer involved shootings.

Fitzpatrick said Tuesday night that the nature of the incident makes it unclear whether Watkins’ death should be considered a police shooting of an armed -- or unarmed -- man.

The DA noted that the gun appeared real to the officer who fired several shots at Watkins, who was taken to Upstate University Hospital before dying from his injuries.

But starter pistols, used to signal the beginning of sporting events, are manufactured to be unable to shoot real bullets absent illegal modifications.

Whether Watkins is considered armed or unarmed matters because the state Attorney General’s Office is granted jurisdiction, via a governor’s executive order, to investigate any deaths of unarmed civilians at the hands of police.

Local prosecutors, on the other hand, still investigate cases in which the person who died was armed.

Fitzpatrick said a final decision hasn’t been made.

“The DA’s Office and the AG’s office are discussing whether the Executive Order confers jurisdiction on the AG,” Fitzpatrick said.