Bethany Freudenthal

Las Cruces Sun-News

LAS CRUCES — Authorities shot and killed a man after he shot and wounded a Las Cruces police officer early Monday.

Police are not identifying the deceased until next of kin is notified.

The series of incidents began about 2 a.m., when employees at the Jack in the Box, 501 S. Telshor Blvd., called police to say a man was acting in a threatening manner.

About 2:20 a.m., police said a responding officer spotted a man matching the description of the man that had been at Jack in Box near the intersection of Lohman Avenue and Nacho Drive.

The officer, in a marked police unit, shined a spotlight on the man, who was on foot. The man responded by firing shots at the officer, police said.

How safe is your neighborhood?:Stay informed with a subscription to the El Paso Times.

At least two rounds went through the police unit’s windshield. The officer, who was struck in the upper chest near his neck, was wearing a protective vest at the time, police said. The officer then drove himself to Memorial Medical Center. Police report his injury is not life-threatening.

Before going to the hospital, the officer alerted dispatch to the situation and gave a description of the man.

Multiple agencies responded to the scene and found the shooting suspect near The Home Depot, 225 N. Telshor Blvd, police said.

LCPD, in its initial news release, stated the man was suspected of trying to carjack a delivery driver near The Home Depot, but was unsuccessful. A later news release did not include that statement.

Near Home Depot, the man didn't comply with officers' commands, police said. Officers fired "non-lethal munitions," but police stated they were largely ineffective.

At some point, the man pointed a handgun at officers and fired at least one round, police said.

More:El Paso police officer fatally shoots pit bull after being bitten trying to contain dogs

More:No bond granted for murder suspect in Walmart parking lot shooting in Las Cruces, NM

Police report officers from four agencies — LCPD, the Doña Ana Sheriff's Office, New Mexico State Police and Border Patrol — discharged their service-issued weapons and the man was struck multiple times. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Border Patrol sent a news release about 10:45 a.m. Monday stating that its agents involved in the incident "returned fire with their service issued weapon, striking the subject."

More:Busy week for Border Patrol: Assault by Cuban, capture of sex offenders, water rescues

More:Border Patrol still holds migrants outside at international bridge as temperatures rise

However, it's not clear which agency's officers fired the fatal shots.

The Border Patrol news release stated the shooting happened about 4 a.m. The LCPD news releases, despite stating times for earlier incidents, did not state what time the exchange of gunfire took place.

Authorities reported a Las Cruces police officer and a Doña Ana County sheriff’s deputy were injured during the final confrontation. Their injuries were not life-threatening, police said. When asked if the officers were shot, a police spokesman replied, "It's still under investigation."

Police closed off access to many of the stores near Monday morning's incident, including Target, Albertsons, Office Max, Starbucks, Village Inn, KFC and Wells Fargo. Those businesses were given the OK to reopen about 11:30 a.m.

The Home Depot, its parking lot and a portion of Nacho Drive that runs in front of the Home Depot remained closed most of the day.

The Officer-involved Incident Task Force is investigating. The task force is made up of for officials from LCPD, DASO, New Mexico State Police, New Mexico State University Police and Border Patrol.

Bethany Freudenthal can be reached at bbrunellef@lcsun-news.com, 575-541-5449 or @bethanyfreuden1 on Twitter.