The High Point Police Department is on the scene of a "barricaded wanted person" who is refusing to come out of a home.

UPDATE: High Point Police said the scene on Rolling Road is secure and people can return home.High Point Police said the man barricaded inside died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Officers were able to get a robot inside the house around 3:00 a.m. Sunday and found Karl King unresponsive. Police initially responded to the home on Rolling Road Saturday afternoon around 4:30 p.m. High Point Police said they received a call for a domestic disturbance on the 3800 block of Rolling Road. When officers arrived to that home, the female victim had already left. Officers say that she went to the magistrate's office to obtain a warrant for the man's arrest, which can be done by completing paperwork and swearing under oath.Investigators say two children were at the home when officers arrived. The suspect released the children, who are now safe, but refused to come out of the home.Several homes in the area were evacuated as a precaution. Stay with WXII 12 News for updates to this developing story.

UPDATE: High Point Police said the scene on Rolling Road is secure and people can return home.

High Point Police said the man barricaded inside died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Advertisement

Officers were able to get a robot inside the house around 3:00 a.m. Sunday and found Karl King unresponsive.

Police initially responded to the home on Rolling Road Saturday afternoon around 4:30 p.m.

High Point Police said they received a call for a domestic disturbance on the 3800 block of Rolling Road. When officers arrived to that home, the female victim had already left. Officers say that she went to the magistrate's office to obtain a warrant for the man's arrest, which can be done by completing paperwork and swearing under oath.

Investigators say two children were at the home when officers arrived. The suspect released the children, who are now safe, but refused to come out of the home.

Several homes in the area were evacuated as a precaution.



Stay with WXII 12 News for updates to this developing story.