Before a man died in a shootout with park rangers in Big Sur, he fired on two hikers who scrambled down a narrow trail in a 45-minute search for a cell signal, prosecutors say.

Kevin Anthony Alaniz, 26, was killed by park rangers at Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park Saturday. Investigators then learned he also was suspected of a deadly shooting on Interstate 680 in San Jose, authorities reported at a press conference Thursday.

Alaniz, of Milpitas, was armed with 10mm Glock-20SF loaded with "RIP" (Radically Invasive Projectile) hollow-point-type bullets and had suspected psychedelic mushrooms in his backpack when the Big Sur shootout began, said Jeannine Pacioni, Monterey County District Attorney.

California Parks Supervisor Mathew Khalar fired three shots from a Remington shotgun and Officer Brian Powell discharged six rounds from a semiautomatic rifle during the shootout at a campsite on the Mount Manuel trail in Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park Saturday evening, she said.

Officers respond to reports of hikers shot at

They had been called out to the area at about 6:10 p.m. after two hikers called 911 to report a confrontation and gunfire involving a man, later identified as Alaniz.

About an hour before, the hikers were about 200 to 300 feet from the trail's summit when Alaniz, acting "erratic" with dilated pupils, approached them and "got in their faces," Pacioni said.

"(Alaniz said) 'This is my world,'" she said.

The hikers turned around and left, but when they'd traversed about a quarter mile they started hearing shots, Pacioni said.

"Four to five shots ring out — one of which whizzes past (a hiker's) head and strikes a tree," she said of the hiker's 911 call.

They fled, warning other ascending hikers to turn back because of the shooting. It took them 45 minutes to reach cell service and call authorities.

Khalar and Powell arrived, and after all the hikers had passed, they took positions on opposite sides of the trail at a campsite 4.2 miles from the summit to wait for backup.

A third park ranger, Bernadette Davis, also responded but did not open fire, Pacioni said.

The park rangers saw Alaniz walking "calmly down the trail," shirtless and with a backpack.

"The officers noticed he wasn't running like the other hikers, which was inconsistent with the behavior of everyone else on the trail," Pacioni said.

The officers were about 65 feet away from Alaniz on the zig-zag, narrow trail when the confrontation occurred, Pacioni said.

He ignored the officers' commands to put his hands up, she said. He also pulled out the pistol and continued to approach officers on the switchback area of the trail.

He pointed his gun, which he legally purchased in October 2017, at the park rangers several times, Pacioni said. Powell also said he'd heard at least one shot from Alaniz.

Powell fired three shots from his rifle and then an additional three rounds, fearing for his and his colleagues' lives, she said.

Then Khalar fired three rounds from his shotgun, hitting Alaniz in the shoulder, right hip and right side of his torso, she said.

Officers waited until a drone could determine whether Alaniz was "incapacitated" or just in hiding before they approached, Pacioni said. The park rangers found him dead. Initial autopsy results show he died from the gunshot wounds.

Ties to a San Jose Murder

Upon searching him, his backpack and his car at the mouth of the trail, investigators found "a lot of ammunition," a military-grade medical staunch for gunshot wounds and an undisclosed amount of suspected psychedelic mushrooms.

The results of toxicology tests have not come in yet. Investigators have not uncovered any evidence of mental illness in their interviews so far, Pacioni said.

They also found three magazines for the pistol, two of them loaded with the same ammo as the pistol: the copper hollow-point-style RIP. rounds, which have been marketed as "the last round you'll ever need," Pacioni said.

Hollow-point rounds expand upon impact with flesh, shredding the target's tissue. Hollow-point ammunition is legal for civilians to purchase.

Investigators also located Alaniz's campsite near the trail's summit, she said. There they found a few personal items and a sleeping bag, she said.

It appears he may have been hiding out in the area — possibly because he was wanted for the deadly Interstate 680 shooting on June 17, she said.

Alaniz is believed to have been driving his vehicle on the freeway when, in the area of Landess Avenue, he opened fire in a "car-to-car shooting," said Ross Lee, public information officer with the California Highway Patrol — San Jose office.

Investigators determined Alaniz was the gunman who shot and killed the driver of a gray Toyota Camry, Matthew Rios, 33, Lee said.

He is the sole suspect. It isn't clear whether the murder weapon was same gun used in the Big Sur shootout, Lee said. The San Jose homicide does not appear gang-related, but both men knew each other.

Lee declined to release additional details about the shooting, citing the ongoing investigation.

Pacioni said she didn't have any information as to whether the park rangers Powell and Khalar are on active duty, paid administrative leave or other employment status.

More information will be released when it becomes available, Pacioni said.

Joe Szydlowski is a multimedia journalist for the Salinas Californian who covers local government, crime and cannabis. Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/JoeSzyd_Salinas. He can be reached at 235-2360.Help support The Californian's work: https://bit.ly/2Qo298J