MIAMI (WSVN) - Officers said they were forced to fire, fatally striking a man after he allegedly stabbed a woman at an apartment complex in Miami in what investigators called a domestic violence incident.

City of Miami Police and Fire Rescue responded to the scene along the 300 block of Southwest 37th Avenue, just before 9:30 a.m., Tuesday.

Responding officers found the victim suffering from stab wounds.

“Officers responded here earlier today on a domestic violence call,” said Miami Police Chief Jorge Colina.

Police radio transmissions captured the tense moments inside the second-floor unit, as dispatch could be heard advising officers.

“Be advised, the subject is still in the apartment … According to the victim, he has no firearms,” a dispatcher said.

Investigators said officers confronted the alleged attacker, and one of them discharged his firearm, fatally striking him.

“The other party in the domestic violence call, that is the person that is deceased,” said Colina.

Paramedics rushed the alleged assailant to Jackson Memorial Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.

Rescue crews transported the victim to JMH, where she underwent surgery and is currently listed in critical condition.

Colina said officers recovered a weapon at the scene.

Crime scene investigators remained at the scene for hours as neighbors watched in disbelief.

“This is an awful thing to happen anywhere, to anyone, at any time,” said Maria Bejerano, who lives in the area.

Police shut down Southwest 37th Avenue between Third and Fifth Streets for hours while they investigated. It has since reopened to traffic.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is now investigating the shooting.

“This is still an ongoing investigation. As we get more information, we’ll be providing it to you,” said Colina.

Police have not released the identities of the victim or her alleged attacker.

Copyright 2023 Sunbeam Television Corp. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.