An Albuquerque police officer continues to recover after being shot in the head at close range one year ago this week.Sgt. Carol Olesak was attempting to arrest Duc Mihn Pham last July when he shot her with her gun. Minutes later, fearing Pham might fire the gun again, police officers shot and killed him."When I got hit, the ear was completely taken off," Olesak said. "They put it back on for my funeral."The funeral for Olesak didn't happen. Instead, she embarked on a long road to recovery -- one she continues today.The longtime Albuquerque police officer is still struggling with speech, eyesight and hearing issues. Olesak said she has had a lot of help. While she was in the hospital, her niece, brother-in-law, mother, sister and many others stepped in."The help that we've received from both police, non-police, lawyers, firemen, politicians, news media has been tremendous," said Olesak's sister, Lynn Scott. "We haven't been able to keep up with the requests to help us, and it's just been absolutely marvelous."Olesak said the last year has been a long and difficult journey."Everybody else says it went very quickly. To me, it takes forever," she said.Olesak wants to get back on the job, but it might be many more months before that happens.

An Albuquerque police officer continues to recover after being shot in the head at close range one year ago this week.

Sgt. Carol Olesak was attempting to arrest Duc Mihn Pham last July when he shot her with her gun. Minutes later, fearing Pham might fire the gun again, police officers shot and killed him.

Advertisement

"When I got hit, the ear was completely taken off," Olesak said. "They put it back on for my funeral."

The funeral for Olesak didn't happen. Instead, she embarked on a long road to recovery -- one she continues today.

The longtime Albuquerque police officer is still struggling with speech, eyesight and hearing issues. Olesak said she has had a lot of help. While she was in the hospital, her niece, brother-in-law, mother, sister and many others stepped in.

"The help that we've received from both police, non-police, lawyers, firemen, politicians, news media has been tremendous," said Olesak's sister, Lynn Scott. "We haven't been able to keep up with the requests to help us, and it's just been absolutely marvelous."

Olesak said the last year has been a long and difficult journey.

"Everybody else says it went very quickly. To me, it takes forever," she said.

Olesak wants to get back on the job, but it might be many more months before that happens.