Bellevue Police have identified the man shot and killed in an officer-involved shooting late Thursday night as Matthew Christian Smith, 33, of Bellevue.

The officer involved, now on paid administrative leave, is Officer Cody Albrecht who has been on the Bellevue Police force since February, 2016.

The 30th and Sandra area is a quiet Bellevue neighborhood but around 11:30 Thursday night there was a disturbance that woke up the neighborhood and brought police rushing in.

Police say that when officers arrived, they heard shots fired from the direction of the home. One officer removed a woman from the house. Shortly thereafter, Officer Albrecht discharged his firearm, striking Smith who was armed with a firearm.

Neighbor Tammy King said, “That’s when I heard, I just heard somebody say ‘don’t do it’ or ‘stop’ or something like that. And then the two cops ran that way. Then I heard about four or five shots.”

King believed there were about a dozen police cruisers in her neighborhood after the shots were fired.

Melissa O’Neil and her husband also got out of bed when they heard gunfire.

“Kind of hung out on our deck,” Melissa said. “Just talked to the neighbors and heard the neighbors say that they heard verbal altercations telling somebody to put the gun down and then heard some gunshots.”

According to Bellevue Police, officers were called to a home near 29th and Sandra for a domestic violence call. The female caller told police her significant other was intoxicated, armed with a firearms and suicidal.

Officers were told that shots were fired. Once officers arrived, more shots were fired. One officer fired his gun hitting the armed male party. That man later died in the hospital. No officers were injured.

Nebraska law requires a grand jury investigation in a case like this.

Chief Deputy Sarpy County Attorney Bonnie Moore said, “A grand jury is necessary whenever there is an officer-involved shooting such as this when someone is being apprehended is killed or in the process of being arrested is killed. Those types of situations.”

Detectives are still in the preliminary stages of their investigation.

The La Vista Police Department is leading the investigation. The Douglas County Crime Lab is assisting.