Crime & Safety GBI Names Man Who Died After Charging At Athens Officers: Police The GBI has named the man who died after he reportedly moved toward Athens police with a knife in his hand, at one time charging forward. Reply

The Georgia Bureau of Investigations is investigating an officer involved shooting in Athens. (Shutterstock)

ATHENS, GA — The Georgia Bureau of Investigations has released the name of the man who was involved in an officer involved shooting that happened Monday afternoon in Athens.

The Athens-Clarke County Police Department said in a press release that shortly before 12:30 p.m. on Monday, officers responded to the 1000 block of Macon Highway to a report of a man who was armed with a knife, covered in blood, and acting erratically. The man was identified as Aaron Hong, 23.

Preliminary information indicates that two ACCPD officers responded to the scene after receiving a 911 call about Hong causing a disturbance with a butcher knife at the River Club Apartments on Macon Highway.

Hong was using the knife in an aggressive manner and appeared to be injured himself, the GBI said. When police made contact, Hong immediately confronted them and began to walk toward officers with the knife in hand. During the incident, officers provided numerous verbal commands for Hong to drop the knife, the GBI said. Instead, Hong charged at one of the officers with the knife and the officer fired his weapon multiple times, striking Hong. Hong managed to get back up and during the confrontation attempted to grab one of the officer’s weapons. The second officer fired at Hong multiple times, striking him, the GBI said.

Nearby medics responded and Hong died at the scene. One officer sustained minor injuries and was treated on scene. In accordance with ACCPD policy, the GBI was asked to investigate this officer involved shooting. Also in accordance with ACCPD policy, the involved officers have been placed on administrative leave.

The GBI said it will continue its independent investigation. GBI Office of Public Affairs Director Nelly Miles said this is the 39th Officer Involved Shooting that the GBI has been requested to investigate in 2019. Since this shooting, there have been two more officer involved shootings in Georgia, Miles said.

