LORAIN COUNTY, Ohio -- A Lorain County grand jury declined to bring criminal charges against police officers involved in the deadly shooting of 39-year-old Isaiah Robinson at an Elyria gas station.

Lorain County Prosecutor Dennis Will wrote Wednesday that the grand jury found Elyria police’s actions and their deadly use of force justifiable. The grand jury returned no-bill indictments in the July 2019 incident involving Robinson of Cleveland and Damon Battles, 39, of Elyria also who got hurt during the shooting.

Elyria police did not return a call seeking information on the job status of patrolmen Charles J. McArthur and patrolman Alan J. Kubas. The department placed both officers on paid administrative leave for their roles in the shooting.

The incident happened around 4 p.m. July 2, 2019 at Marathon Gas at East Avenue and Fuller Road.

Elyria police officers stopped a car driven by Battles. Robinson was a passenger. Police said they were investigating a report of a shooting at a nearby apartment complex.

Witnesses would later tell police that they saw the two men at the apartment around the time of the shooting, police said. One of the witnesses saw a visibly-upset Battles with a gun standing next to an apartment door, according to Lorain County Sheriff incident reports released Thursday to cleveland.com.

Battles told Robinson that someone threatened his life, and the pair drove to Marathon Gas.

Several officers, including McArthur and Kubas, located the men in a dark-colored Chevrolet Impala with tinted windows. Police gave commands to the two men to get out of the car for approximately five minutes, the reports say.

An officer reported “abnormal movement” inside the car and that Robinson was in the back seat digging around for something, the reports say.

“Witnesses and evidence showed that Robinson may have been highly intoxicated and upset. It is unknown if Robinson was upset over a court ruling (OVI case against Robinson) earlier in the day or because his friend Damon Battles’ life had been threatened or a combination of both,” according to a report of the sheriff office’s findings. “Investigation revealed that prior to the incident at the Marathon gas station that Robinson had made statements of not going to jail along with several statements that he was ‘prepared to die’ on this day.”

Battles eventually opened the driver’s side door because Robinson continued to point the gun at his best friend’s head, reports say. Battles later told investigators that he was more afraid of Robinson doing something to him than the police.

Robinson pointed the gun at Battles’ face while still seated in the car.

“...Robinson was observed to have the gun and by the officer’s statements, Robinson turned the gun in their direction,” the reports say. “In fear for their own personal safety, the officers fired upon Robinson.”

Robinson suffered gunshot wounds to his chest, right arm and right thigh near his groin, reports say. Police rendered aid before paramedics arrived.

Robinson died after being taken to Mercy Health in Lorain, while Battles went to University Hospitals Elyria Medical Center where he was treated and released.

Read more crime stories on cleveland.com:

Gun found in car after deadly Elyria police shooting at gas station, investigators say

Cleveland man who killed acquaintance in Olmsted Falls apartment complex gets life in prison

Cleveland man gets prison sentence for 2019 crime spree, police shootout

East Cleveland police shoot armed man after car chase, police say

Two men tried to kidnap real estate agent in North Ridgeville, police say