Jonathan Pingel, the man shot to death by West Des Moines police officers Wednesday, had a run-in with one of those officers in 2017 during a drunken-driving arrest, according to court records.

Officer Nathan Grove was kicked in the chest and bruised while trying to arrest Pingel then, authorities said. (Although only some information about Wednesday's shooting is being released in the early days of an investigation, nothing suggests that the 2017 confrontation had any bearing on the shooting case.)

Grove and Officer Matthew Wood confronted Pingel, 26, at a West Des Moines townhouse. State police say the officers, who were investigating a report of a "domestic disturbance," opened fire after Pingel refused to drop a knife. Evidence from the investigation will be given to the Polk County Attorney's Office.

In the 20 months between the 2017 arrest and the end of Pingel's life July 3, court documents lay out how he bounced in and out of jail and treatment programs, repeatedly violating terms of the probation he received for driving drunk, trying to get away from police, refusing to leave his vehicle after being pulled over and attacking Grove.

His probation officer and judges ordered him to get mental health and substance abuse treatment. Sometimes he didn't go, and when he did, he caused problems or quickly left, court records show.

Sean Spellman, a West Des Moines attorney who represented Pingel after the 2017 arrest and in probation proceedings, said he had "gone the extra distance for him" in any way he could.

"Jon was a creative and bright and entrepreneurial spirit," he said in a phone interview Friday. "It's just a tragic loss for his family." Spellman said he came to know Pingel's father a bit as the son's case evolved.

Spellman acknowledged Pingel's struggles but said the news of his death was still shocking.

A chase, and an ugly arrest

Before Nov. 8, 2017, Pingel had a job at a chiropractic office, he wrote in an application for a court-appointed lawyer. Just after midnight that day, he was driving east on Interstate Highway 235 just east of the mixmaster in West Des Moines. Police allege he was speeding.

Pingel eventually was arrested, with police saying his blood alcohol level was nearly three times the legal limit for drivers in Iowa. He had to be pulled out of his Toyota Camry and kicked Grove, court documents say.

He was released from jail on bond the next day and didn't get into further legal trouble while awaiting trial. He completed drunken-driver school, and his guilty plea was delayed while he participated in unspecified treatment, Spellman wrote in court documents.

On Aug. 1, a judge ruled that Pingel could be "suffering from a mental disorder which prevents the defendant from appreciating the charge, understanding the proceedings or assisting effectively in the defense." She ordered a psychiatric evaluation.

Two weeks later, Pingel appeared in court and was ruled competent; he pleaded guilty shortly after and in October 2018 received a deferred judgment for eluding and assault; his jail sentence for drunken driving was suspended. Other charges were dropped, and he was placed on probation.

Ups and downs during probation

Pingel's probation officer detailed the successes and struggles that followed: Pingel paid off his court debt and completed the drunken-driving program. But after police performed a welfare check in late January and told Pingel to call his probation officer, he didn't. In March, he got a job at a restaurant but quit after one week.

He tested positive for alcohol in April — one of the terms of his probation was that he not drink — and refused testing on other occasions.

"The defendant has significant issues with alcohol and has struggled with his sobriety," probation officer Kris Clark wrote. He "appears to have mental health issues that he is not addressing." Clark cited a therapy session in which Pingel cursed at the therapist. He eventually stopped going to therapy and told Clark that if he was prescribed psychiatric medication, he would refuse to take it.

Clark wrote that during meetings with Pingel, "he has drastic mood and attitude changes" and said he felt he was being "chained down and tortured."

After Pingel failed to get required evaluations for substance and mental health and skipped an April 25 appointment with Clark, the officer recommended that a judge send him to jail and revoke his probation.

Polk County District Associate Judge Kevin Parker kept Pingel on probation and ordered him to complete mental health therapy and a program through the Salvation Army. That order was about eight weeks ago, on May 7.

On May 16, Clark wrote that Pingel had been kicked out of the Salvation Army program after yelling at cursing at the staff because he did not want to take the bus to an appointment. Clark again recommended probation revocation.

Parker on June 18 revoked Pingel's deferred judgment but continued his probation, saying he needed to return to the Salvation Army. Pingel was placed there the next day but left on his own on June 21, saying he "didn't want to do the program."

"The defendant has not contacted PO and his whereabouts are unknown," Clark wrote in a June 24 report. Spellman, the attorney, said that's around the last time he spoke to Pingel.

For W.D.M., a rare police shooting

Investigators have not said whether they know what Pingel was doing in the 13 days before his death. His connection to the West Des Moines address where police were called for a "domestic disturbance" Wednesday was also not immediately clear.

West Des Moines police say Grove and Wood are on leave, as is customary while such a shooting is investigated. The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation says that when officers entered the home, Pingel confronted them while carrying a "hunting-style knife."

Pingel ignored their commands to drop the knife, police said, and began to advance on them. Both officers opened fire, striking Pingel.

Pingel died at a Des Moines hospital. Neither officer was injured.

Both officers were wearing body cameras that recorded footage of the incident, but it has not been released.

Pingel is the first person to be killed by West Des Moines police since detectives shot and killed a rape suspect in the Village at Glen Oaks development in May 2009.