UPDATE (Aug. 6):

After a nearly month-long investigation by Virginia State Police into an officer-involved shooting near Timberville last month, the Commonwealth's Attorney says no charges will be filed against the officers.

On July 7, around 9:15 p.m., deputies with the Rockingham County Sheriff's Office and officers with the Timberville Police Department responded to a home in the 19000 block of Mechanicsville Rd., near Timberville.

Police had been told someone there had fired a gun while attempting to enter the home.

According to the investigation carried out by Commonwealth's Attorney Marsha Garst, 41-year-old Johnny W. Dellinger Jr., of Rockingham County, had assaulted two individuals at that address.

According to witnesses and the 911 call to which police responded, the two people sheltered inside the home after the assault. While on the phone with dispatchers, the victim reported that Dellinger was repeatedly firing a gun at the home. Witnesses said he then tried to enter the home where the victims were hiding, and when they refused to let him in, threatened to shoot through the door.

When officers arrived, according to an initial Virginia State Police statement, they found Dellinger outside the home, where he walked around an outbuilding and started advancing on the officer and deputy "in a threatening manner."

Garst's investigation concluded that the officer and deputy repeatedly told him to stop his approach, but Dellinger refused, at which point the officer and deputy fired, killing him.

"The officers took great risks to their personal safety to minimize the loss of life in this tragic unavoidable instance," Garst stated in a press release.

She concluded that the use of force was justified.

The officer and deputy attempted life-saving measures on Dellinger, but he died at the scene.

The incident came less than two weeks after a Timberville officer was involved in

in which police say a man attacked the officer with a sword. No charges were filed against that officer.

"Stuff like that doesn't really happen here," Jimmy Southern, a Timberville resident, told WHSV after the second incident. "It's a small town. People really just go to work and come home."

"I think they need to think things through and maybe get higher people involved," said Angela Tusing, a Timberville resident. "So they can avoid this in the future."

_____________

UPDATE (July 8):

A Rockingham County man is dead after police say he refused to listen to officers at the scene of a reported domestic dispute.

According to Virginia State Police, deputies with the Rockingham County Sheriff's Office and officers with the Timberville Police Department responded to a home in the 19000 block of Mechanicsville Rd., near Timberville, at 9:15 p.m. Sunday night.

Police had been told someone there had fired a gun while attempting to enter the home.

When officers arrived, according to VSP investigators, they found 41-year-old Johnny W. Dellinger Jr., of Rockingham County, outside the home.

Police say he walked around an outbuilding and then started advancing on the officer and deputy "in a threatening manner." Officers commanded him to stop, but when he refused to comply, police say the officer and deputy fired on Dellinger.

The officer and deputy attempted life-saving measures, but he died at the scene.

A statement from police says a weapon was recovered at the scene. No elaboration was provided on exactly where the weapon was found.

Dellinger's remains were sent to the Office of the Medical Examiner in Roanoke for examination and autopsy.

No one else was injured in the incident.

The Rockingham County Sheriff's Office requested Virginia State Police investigate the officer-involved shooting. Once the investigation is complete, police will turn the files over to Rockingham County Commonwealth’s Attorney Marsha Garst, who will determine if any charges are merited.

Less than two weeks ago, a Timberville officer was involved in

in which police say a man attacked the officer with a sword.

____________

ORIGINAL STORY (10 p.m. July 7):

Sheriff Bryan Hutcheson confirmed to WHSV on Sunday evening authorities were investigating a shooting incident near Timberville.

Law enforcement was called to a violent domestic dispute at the 19500 block of Mechanicsville Road around 9:30 p.m., the sheriff said. He did not elaborate on the nature of any injuries.

The Rockingham County Sheriff's Office, Timberville Police and State Police are involved in the investigation, according to Sheriff Hutcheson.

More information was set to be released Monday morning.