Not a lot is known about Jason Harris, who was fatally shot by a Riverside County sheriff’s deputy on July 9, shortly after 7:23 p.m.

The Riverside County coroner’s report says he was 35. The sheriff’s news release says he was 36. The coroner’s report says his city of residence is pending investigation. The sheriff’s news release says he was a Rancho Mirage resident.

His friends, who also were living unsheltered in the same area, aren’t even sure they knew his real name. They called him Jacob. Maybe someone misheard him when he first introduced himself at the In-N-Out Burger in Thousand Palms, where he could usually be found panhandling for change. Or, perhaps, he intentionally gave a wrong name.

It’s common for individuals experiencing homelessness, at times fleeing their own grief, to long for a new life. A new name. A new place. His friends — acquaintances, really — didn’t question it.

But what they have questioned in the weeks since Harris was killed in the deputy-involved shooting, just off the grounds of the Agua Caliente Resort Casino Spa in Rancho Mirage, is if the shooting was warranted.

While the sheriff’s report depicts a threatening man “exhibiting bizarre behavior,” those who knew him say he was quiet and calm but struggled with mental health issues like depression.

“I know if they just tried to talk to him, he would have mellowed out,” said Matthew Smith, 50, who lives in a self-built shack hidden in the tangles of overgrown brush along a stretch of Interstate 10 near the casino.

The bullets were protecting the deputies

About 20 minutes before the sun began to set on the desert on July 9, several Riverside County sheriff’s deputies from the Palm Desert station responded to a “report of a male subject waving a knife in the air and exhibiting bizarre behavior in the area of Bob Hope Drive and Ramon Road,” according to the sheriff’s news release.

The bystander who reported the man told sheriff’s dispatch workers that he was “armed with a knife and was waving it in the air.”

It's common for Individuals experiencing homelessness to carry a knife. It’s protection from rattlesnakes, as well as a deterrent to physical aggression or theft.

Harris didn’t even start carrying a knife until recently.

“Someone gave him that knife recently for protection because he had nothing, and we told him you can’t just be living out here with nothing,” Smith said.

But, a knife waved in the air is a threat to deputies, officials said.

Over the span of five to 10 minutes, deputies shouted several commands to Harris to drop the knife, which he failed to comply with, said Deputy Robyn Flores, a Riverside County sheriff’s spokeswoman.

“They used less lethal force but the Taser didn’t affect him,” Flores said. “He was Tased properly and it didn’t work on him.”

Harris' lack of reaction could have been a sign of drugs pumping through his veins, making him immune to the shock of the stun gun, Flores said. But that can’t be confirmed until the coroner finishes an autopsy on Harris.

“The suspect continued to refuse to comply with deputies’ commands, then advanced towards the deputies still armed with the knife, resulting in a deputy-involved shooting,” the news release stated.

Following the incident, bystanders published videos that detailed the shooting prompting discussions of whether the shooting was necessary.

In the videos, at least four deputies trailed Harris, who was walking away from them. Harris eventually stepped off the sidewalk onto the street, where he took several strides backward and then a step toward the deputy closest to him.

Harris was then shot several times.

Stephen Goode, who was driving by, said he saw blood spray from Harris’ body as five bullets hit his torso. Harris fell forward onto the road and a deputy handcuffed him as he bled. Aside from the deputies, no one was within 100 feet of Harris.

"He was not an immediate threat to anybody at the point they killed him,” Goode said. “I said to myself, ‘No way did they just shoot this guy.’”

Harris later was pronounced dead at Desert Regional Medical Center in Palm Springs.

“I saw the videos,” Smith said. “He was walking away from them. I don’t understand why they had to shoot him that many times.”

Manuel Red, 46, who knew Harris from panhandling in the same area together, said the shooting brought him to tears.

“It sucks that cops have the authority to pull a trigger on someone’s life,” Red said. “It was mental illness. He needed help for sure. A lot of people homeless are here because of a mental illness.”

Red said he thought the deputies should have tried better to de-escalate the situation or should have fired a non-lethal shot to Harris’ leg instead. Red said he wishes police had more thorough and frequent training on how to address mental health issues.

Harris struggled with depression

There’s a picturesque bus stop on the corner of Bob Hope Drive and Ramon Road that Harris called home. The solid concrete bench is flanked by purposeful landscaping, decorative stone columns, and a willow branch awning that drapes a lattice-pattern of shadows on the ground.

Smith said he offered a few times to let Harris stay with him along the highway, but Harris felt most content sleeping at the bus stop.

Every morning, Harris would gather up his things and walk a mile to his daily post at the In-N-Out Burger. It’s an understood rule that everyone gets a 30-minute interval to fly a sign to ask for money, food, a job — or hope.

“He never spoke much to anybody, but he was a nice, fair guy and didn’t have it out for nobody,” Smith said. “And he wasn’t greedy. He respected the 30-minute intervals.”

Harris’ life history is a small collection of things people think they might know about him but aren’t too sure because “you never really know someone who’s living on the streets, even if you are living alongside them,” Smith said.

He lived unsheltered in the Rancho Mirage area between six months and two years — when a community is transient, it’s hard to keep track of who is coming and going.

It’s possible that Harris was a foster kid. A woman said she thought he had a wife. Some said he was just out of the military — he was often seen wearing old fatigues. He talked about church sometimes, so Smith assumed Harris checked in with the good Lord occasionally. He wasn’t addicted to any substances — he “was totally against any kind of drug,” Smith said.

Harris had family in Illinois, where he grew up. He moved to California for a relationship, but he and the woman eventually split. That could have been when the depression set in.

And it was the depression that gnawed at Smith’s memory of Harris the most.

On Harris’ cardboard sign, in addition to writing a request for money he had also written “Omega.”

In the New Testament Book of Revelation 22:13, God says: “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End, the First and the Last.” Scholars interpret the verse to mean that God is the beginning and end of all things. Omega is the last letter in the Greek alphabet.

Smith said he believes Harris was obsessed with “the end.” Smith said it seemed like Harris had been struggling mentally.

Others said they heard Harris talking about suicide in the weeks prior to the deputy-involved shooting. Smith said that the day before the shooting Harris “had some emotional episodes, but it was easy to calm him down.”

Smith tentatively asked, “Maybe it was suicide-by-cop?” But he quickly dismissed the thought and felt bad for mentioning it.

“It’s just that’s still no reason to shoot him,” he said. “Anyone could have talked him down. But, then again, I guess I didn’t really know him that well and even though he was quiet, he could have had deeper issues.”

Officer-involved shootings

The shooting was the fourth officer-involved fatal shooting this year in the Coachella Valley. Since then, another shooting has taken place, but it did not result in a death. In all, there have been 10 officer-involved shootings in the valley this year.

Riverside County has one of the highest rates of fatal officer-involved shootings per person in California, according to a database maintained by The Washington Post. Los Angeles County tops Riverside County in total shootings, but Los Angeles County has more than four times as many people. Per person, Riverside County has had almost twice as many fatal officer-involved shootings this year.

The 2018 Policing in Vulnerable Populations report, published by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, said violence is one of the most troubling consequences of police interactions with someone who has mental health issues or is experiencing an emotional crisis.

These individuals account for 25% of those killed in officer-involved shootings, according to the report.

One deputy involved in Harris' shooting was placed on administrative leave, but the department has not released body camera footage.

Flores said in an interview the use of lethal force was justified.

“Say you’re an officer holding a gun and you come in contact with an individual with a knife who is not complying after you try talking with them to calm him down,” Flores said. “He’s not responding to your direction and then this person starts advancing towards you. Now that this person is moving, it is difficult to just shoot him in the foot. It doesn’t work that way. We shoot center to stop the threat.”

Flores said deputies receive ongoing mental health training to know how to de-escalate a situation. Deputies are required to take 32 hours of escalation training every two years. At the start of employment, deputies also are required to take an initial three-hours of crisis intervention training, two hours of integrating communications training, four hours of autism awareness training and one hour of excited delirium training. Deputies have ongoing refreshers on all topics.

Local officials have said with a lack of mental health resources, police are now tasked with walking the murky line between mental health worker and cop.

In the Coachella Valley, 44% of homeless individuals surveyed reported struggling with mental health issues and wished to seek help, according to a Desert Sun data survey conducted in early 2019.

Through the Riverside University Health System Behavioral Health department, Riverside County has 23 two-person outreach teams to serve the county's entire homeless population which includes 2,811 individuals. The city of Palm Springs funds additional workers within its jurisdiction.

The county currently operates an intensive case management mental health program in Rancho Mirage that serves adults who have had contact with the criminal justice system. In Palm Springs, the county has a 24-hour mental health urgent care center. And in the coming year, the county hopes to open an overnight mental health facility in Palm Springs.

Both individuals experiencing homelessness and those who work in social services say those resources aren't enough. County officials are hoping more money will be allocated from the state to address behavioral health needs.

"They took the life of someone who had a mental illness," Red said. "I hope people think about that and know we need a better plan for the guys on the street with mental health struggles."

Ongoing coverage:Read more about homelessness in the Coachella Valley

More:He stepped back, forward, then was shot. Videos spark questions about fatal officer-involved shooting in Rancho Mirage

More:Officer-involved shooting reported at Eisenhower Health

Desert Sun reporter Nicole Hayden covers health and healthcare in the Coachella Valley. She can be reached at Nicole.Hayden@desertsun.com or (760) 778-4623. Follow her on Twitter @Nicole_A_Hayden.