UPDATE:

POPE COUNTY, Ark. — The Pope County Sheriff’s Office have confirmed that 24-year-old Anthony Langley, of Russellville, has been identified as the suspect who died earlier today during gunfire exchange with state and local law enforcement officers in Pope County earlier today.

The Arkansas State Police is investigating the use of deadly force by a law enforcement officer.

Langley’s body is being taken to the Arkansas State Crime Lab to determine a manner and cause of death.

ORIGINAL STORY:

POPE COUNTY, Ark.- The Pope County Sheriff’s Office confirms a person is dead after an officer-involved shooting in the Atkins area.

The Pope County Coroner tells KARK 4 News a man was killed in a shooting in the Atkins area.

Pope County 911 received a call around 9:15 Tuesday morning of a person walking down State Highway 105, near Avenue 3 Southeast in Atkins, armed with a handgun, exhibiting aggressive behavior and pointing the gun at passing drivers.

Officials say when an Atkins police officer made contact with the suspect, the suspect immediately began firing at the officer.

Investigators say after the gunfire, the suspect ran into a wooded area East of State Highway 105 and authorities began a manhunt for the suspect.

Authorities say when officers encountered the suspect again, the suspect fired at officers, and the officers returned fire, killing the suspect.

No officers were injured.

We do know that Atkins Schools were on lockdown for a while Tuesday morning because of a report to them of an active shooter. The superintendent tells KARK they are no longer on lockdown and all the students and faculty are safe.

The investigation has been turned over to Arkansas State Police, who will present their findings to the Prosecuting Attorney of the 5th Judicial District.

The Atkins School District published this statement in response to this incident on its Facebook page Tuesday afternoon:

As most are aware, there was a situation this morning which called for the schools to be placed in lockdown. We were informed that there was a standoff between the Atkins Police Department and a suspect which involved gunfire. The situation was 3-5 miles south of the school campuses, but we felt it was wise to go on lockdown.

In our first mode of lockdown, we lock all doors, and do not allow students or staff to leave the building or their classroom. Several people reported hearing gunshots, which was apparently the echo of the situation taking place, so we ordered all campuses to shelter in place, which involved locking classroom doors, and turning out lights, and pulling down blinds.

This situation lasted approximately 25-30 minutes. Once we were told the situation was no longer lethal, we reported an “all clear” for our campuses.

We remind you that our number one priority is your child’s and our staff’s safety. When we have a situation like this, we will not allow anybody into the building without proper authority. We will not allow you to check out your children, for their and your safety. We ask you to not call the school or your child, as we need the phone lines open for us to call for help if needed. The same is true for your child. If you are calling their cell phone, you could potentially be putting them in a dangerous situation.

Thank you for trusting your children with us, and we remain behind our pledge to keep them safe. We thank our School Resource Officers and the Atkins Police Department, and the Pope County Sheriff’s Office for their cooperation and leadership.

As we have human laws and procedures, we are very aware nothing is perfect. I welcome any and all questions and suggestions. Feel free to call me or email. I would rather not discuss it over social media.

We will have grief and trauma counseling available for your children if you feel they need it. We pray for our LEO’s and the families who may have family members involved in this situation. God bless our school and our community.

Jody Jenkins, Superintendent

Atkins Public Schools

479-641-7871

jody.jenkins@atkinsschools.org