Police have released the name of the officer involved in that deadly shooting earlier this week in Greenville.

Greenville police say Officer David Johnson shot and killed Sean Rambert while the man was trying to break into a townhome on Brookville Drive.

Police say people inside the home heard what sounded like a break-in and a man's voice. When Johnson arrived, he encountered Rambert in the street. They say he didn't follow commands from the officer and it turned into a violent struggle between the two men.

"He (Johnson) fired his weapon multiple times and was able to strike the suspect and got the suspect off of him," said Chief Mark Holtzman.

Johnson was treated for injuries received in the struggle at Vidant Medical Center.

He has been with the Greenville Police Department for the past 18 months.

Officials say Johnson has been placed on administrative assignment pending the outcome of the investigation which is standard protocol for any officer-involved shooting.

The SBI continues to investigate the officer-involved shooting.

Previous Story

Greenville Police and the SBI are investigating a Greenville Townhouse fatal officer-involved shooting overnight that left one man dead.

Medical examiners and neighbors confirmed that Sean Rambert is the deceased suspect involved in a break-in.

Emanuel Rambert says his brother suffered from schizophrenia.

Police say dispatchers could hear the window breaking in the 911 call, as well as screaming. There was blood on the back of the home on the 2200 block of Brookville Drive.

When Officers arrived on the scene they encountered a man in the street who they believed was the suspect in the home break-in.

GPD says the man didn’t follow commands from the officers and a violent struggle ensued.

Chief Mark Holtzman said, "It was a very violent encounter between our officer and obviously a deadly encounter in the end. We’re glad our officer is OK. It’s unfortunate anytime an incident like this happens in our community.”

Shyquala Brown says she knew Rambert and his brother, and she’s distraught by the news.

“The Police came at five o’clock in the morning. So, I was confused,” Brown said, “I get on Instagram and see his brother posted it. And I’m like...’Are you serious?’”

Some neighbors say this is a quiet neighborhood, and things like this don’t happen often.

“I think it’s just one of those rare things that happens,” said Charles Cloninger.

Other residents say this isn’t the first incident. Amber Hasbun, who has lived here three years, said not too long ago, her next-door neighbor had a break-in.

Hasbun said, "We have security cameras. So, I was like, ‘I wanna make sure they’re all on’”

Hashbun wants her neighbors to know that they have her full support.

Brown offers her condolences to the Rambert family.

“To his brothers, I’m sorry. To his mom, I’m sorry. Cause I know it gotta be sad. And it’s just, you know, I wouldn’t want it to be me,” Brown said.

PREVIOUS STORY:

The man shot and killed by a Greenville police officer has been identified.

The SBI is investigating the shooting that killed Sean Rambert outside a Greenville townhouse early Tuesday.

Greenville police confirm that one man died after being shot by an officer responding to a breaking and entering call at a townhouse in the 2200 block of Brookville Drive shortly after 4 a.m.

The Pitt County Medical Examiner's Office says they have the body of Rambert. Neighbors on Brooksville Drive say Rambert's brother lives on an adjacent street.

Emanuel Rambert says his brother suffered from schizophrenia.

Police say the people inside the home at the time heard what sounded like a break-in and a man's voice. When officers arrived on the scene, they encountered the man in the street. They say the man didn't follow commands from the officer and it turned into a violent struggle between the officer and the suspect.

"He (the officer) fired his weapon multiple times and was able to strike the suspect and got the suspect off of him," said Chief Mark Holtzman.

The chief said other officers arrived and began life-saving measures on the man.

The officer suffered multiple injuries and was taken to the hospital but was expected to be OK. A police spokeswoman said the officer is expected to be released later today.

No one inside the townhome was injured.

"This was a very violent encounter between our officer and obviously a deadly encounter in the end," the chief said. "We are glad our officer is okay. It is unfortunate anytime an incident like this happens in our community."

While family has confirmed the person shot and killed, police have not yet released his name, or the officer involved.

The shooting investigation has been turned over to the SBI, but Greenville police will investigate the breaking and entering.