PENN HILLS (KDKA) -- Allegheny County Police say one man was killed in an exchange of gunfire with police following a fatal shooting in Penn Hills.

It started just before 9 p.m. Sunday when police found a man shot dead inside a car in the parking lot of the Sharon Court apartment complex at the intersection of Frankstown Road and Graham Boulevard.

(Photo Credit: KDKA)

According to police, the victim was found in the driver's seat of a car. He was wounded in the head and pronounced dead at the scene.

The Allegheny County Medical Examiner's Office identifies the victim as 30-year-old Joshua Antonio Makhanda-Lopez of Mt. Oliver.

"When I first saw the car, I thought it was an accident," neighbor Staci Bose said.

Bose lives across the street from the Sharon Court complex. She said about an hour later, several police agencies were in front of her home. According to her, the officers were just two doors down from her house.

"You don't expect that in front of your house. You don't expect to open your front door and there's caution tape everywhere," Bose told KDKA from her front porch. "You don't expect that to happen."

Witnesses told police they had seen two men wearing red clothing running from the scene, in the direction of a home on Frankstown Road.

Police say the homeowner was cooperative, telling officers there were four young men inside the home. She was able to get two of them to surrender.

Police say officers called to the two others still inside the home. One came out, but the fourth refused to surrender. Officers then entered the home. Police say they found a man hiding in the basement.

(Photo Credit: KDKA)

Police say one officer gave him commands, but he refused to follow them. According to investigators, that's when he opened fire and charged at a police officer.

Investigators say a Penn Hills officer returned fire, hitting the suspect at least twice. He was pronounced dead at the scene. He has been identified as 20-year-old Onaje Dickinson of Pittsburgh.

Police have identified 15-year-old Myzle Ford as the other person they believe is responsible for the homicide of Makhanda-Lopez.

(Photo Credit: Allegheny County)

Police say Ford was arrested and charged as an adult on multiple charges, including homicide. Police say he is in Allegheny County Jail awaiting arraignment.

"As a mother, I am filled with a whole lot of emotions for the mothers of everybody involved," Bose said. "You need to know life is more important than whatever you think in in that moment."

Allegheny County Police and the District Attorney's Office are investigating.

Police say the name of the officer involved is not being released.