A Sioux City couple died from injuries after a Saturday evening motorcycle wreck that followed a high-speed chase down Interstate 29 after a patrolman attempted to pull them over for a broken tail light.

Troy Gray, 27, and his wife, Jennifer Gray, 27, a passenger on their motorcycle, were injured fatally in a roll-over accident eight miles southwest of Sloan, Iowa. Troy Gray was pronounced dead at the scene Saturday evening and Jennifer Gray died from head injuries Monday at Mercy Medical Center-Sioux City. They lived at 1118 Iowa St. and are survived by a 3-year-old child.

An Iowa Highway Patrol trooper saw the Grays' motorcycle had a malfunctioning tail light, yet "the motorcycle did not pull over," Sgt. Dave Eral of the highway patrol's Cherokee office reported Tuesday.

The Grays reportedly fled south down I-29 in Woodbury County at a high rate of speed, then turned off on the Sloan exit, subsequently taking a county road west and then turning on gravel roads. Eral said the motorcycle kicked up so much dust and turned several times, so the trooper lost the Grays and called off the chase at about 10 p.m.

"The pursuit was terminated basically as soon as they got on the gravel road," Eral said.

The accident report stated the Grays were westbound on a gravel road at a high rate of speed and failed to negotiate a curve, flipping the Harley-Davidson over into the south ditch and striking a fence post.

Eral said "the female (Jennifer Gray) called on a cell phone" to advise of the wreck, then authorities searched for and subsequently found the site near the junction of 130th Street and Alder Avenue in Monona County.

Eral said he could not speculate as to why Gray fled down the interstate highway instead of pulling over as directed, but said the accident is still under investigation. Assisting the Iowa State Patrol were the Monona County Sheriff's Office, Onawa and Whiting police departments and Sloan Ambulance.

Bret Hayworth may be reached at (712)293-4203 or brethayworth@siouxcityjournal.com.