A Baltimore police officer is in Shock Trauma after a shooting at a methadone clinic Monday morning that left a suspect and another man dead.Baltimore Police Commissioner Michael Harrison said the shooting was reported at 7:09 a.m. at the Man Alive methadone clinic in the 2100 block of Maryland Avenue. Police received a call about an armed person.The gunman had already fired two shots before police arrived at the clinic, Harrison said. "When we arrived, this was actually treated as an active shooter scenario because we were informed when we got there (that) there was a suspect in the building who had fired a gun at least two times," Harrison said.Harrison said the officers tried to de-escalate the situation, but the suspect began shooting at the officers."As the suspect fired upon our officer, he returned gunfire but was struck by the suspect's rounds," Harrison said.Baltimore police Sgt. Bill Shiflett, a 25-year veteran assigned to the Northern District, was shot in his lower abdomen under his bulletproof vest. Shock Trauma officials said Shiflett underwent surgery and was taken to the intensive care unit."The officer arrived, he was awake, talking, was complaining of abdominal pain. His vital signs were normal. His exam was suggestive that he needed an urgent operation and he was taken into the operating room by the trauma attending," Shock Trauma Dr. James O'Connor said.Doctors said Shiflett, 51, was alert and conscious when he was taken into surgery, and he is in stable condition. Police said Shiflett is an authorized patrol rifleman, who was carrying a rifle on his shift Monday."The majority of his career has been in our aviation unit as an observer, so he's very tactically sound," Northern District Maj. Rich Gibson said.Harrison said the suspect and another man found in a separate room suffering from gunshot wounds were taken to a hospital, where they died."We only fired at one suspect," Harrison said. "We only encountered one suspect who fired at our officer and we only fired in one direction at one person."Police identified the suspect Tuesday as Ashanti Pinkney, 49, who lived in a nearby apartment building.Police identified the clinic employee who was fatally shot as David Caldwell, 52.Police said a 41-year-old female employee of the clinic was also injured during this incident."She was transported to a hospital, and her injuries, at this time, are not believed to be life-threatening," Harrison said.Pippy Scott, a patient, was in the clinic speaking with her counselor when the gunman arrived. Scott said the man held a gun to the head of a staff member."All of a sudden, we heard this 'bang' noise. I didn't know if it was a gun or something hitting metal ... Come to find out, it was a gun. Honey, he had the woman by the head and had the gun at her head. She was a nurse," Scott said.Scott said the gunman was trying to get the larger container of methadone used to distribute smaller daily doses."He was a quiet person. He stayed to himself," Missy Hamilton said. Hamilton said she's known Pinkney for years. "We would sit down and talk sometimes. He was friendly with everybody. I ain't never known him to get into nothing with nobody," Hamilton said.A motive is unclear. Pinkney was apparently known to the clinic, Harrison said."Preliminary indication is that he went in to get methadone and had to be buzzed in because it is secure door and was allowed entry, and at that point, he began to escalate, and from there, we received the call of an armed suspect," Harrison said.Detectives spent time inside a nearby apartment building that residents said is where the suspected gunman lived. Police said a firearm was recovered at the scene."We recovered what we believe to be the suspect's gun on the scene near his body," Harrison said.Harrison praised Officer Christopher Miller, 32, a three-year veteran, whom he said put his life in danger when he pulled Shiflett, his supervisor, to safety after Shiflett was shot."The other officer is a 2 1/2-year veteran and actually dragged Sgt. Shiflett out of the building, and it was very heroic and we're going to ensure that he's commended for what he did," Gibson said."This was a dangerous situation that could have been far worse for our officers. They showed extreme courage, extreme bravery and extreme professionalism, all of which was captured on bodycam video," Harrison said.Gov. Larry Hogan released a statement, saying, "This morning, a senseless act of violence in Baltimore City took the life of a civilian and injured a police officer. Our hearts are with the victims' loved ones, and we are grateful for the prompt response by law enforcement." Shiflett has a wife and two daughters and extended family who are by his side at the hospital."I've had the opportunity to meet with the officer's family -- his wife, his children, his sister and brother -- and they are doing well, and at this moment, we want to make sure that our thoughts and prayers are with our officer for a speedy recovery," Harrison said.Police body-worn camera has been reviewed.Maryland Avenue was closed in the area until about 4:15 p.m.Harrison's full press conference:

A Baltimore police officer is in Shock Trauma after a shooting at a methadone clinic Monday morning that left a suspect and another man dead.

Baltimore Police Commissioner Michael Harrison said the shooting was reported at 7:09 a.m. at the Man Alive methadone clinic in the 2100 block of Maryland Avenue. Police received a call about an armed person.

The gunman had already fired two shots before police arrived at the clinic, Harrison said.

"When we arrived, this was actually treated as an active shooter scenario because we were informed when we got there (that) there was a suspect in the building who had fired a gun at least two times," Harrison said.

Harrison said the officers tried to de-escalate the situation, but the suspect began shooting at the officers.



"As the suspect fired upon our officer, he returned gunfire but was struck by the suspect's rounds," Harrison said.



Baltimore police Sgt. Bill Shiflett, a 25-year veteran assigned to the Northern District, was shot in his lower abdomen under his bulletproof vest. Shock Trauma officials said Shiflett underwent surgery and was taken to the intensive care unit.

"The officer arrived, he was awake, talking, was complaining of abdominal pain. His vital signs were normal. His exam was suggestive that he needed an urgent operation and he was taken into the operating room by the trauma attending," Shock Trauma Dr. James O'Connor said.

Doctors said Shiflett, 51, was alert and conscious when he was taken into surgery, and he is in stable condition. Police said Shiflett is an authorized patrol rifleman, who was carrying a rifle on his shift Monday.

Baltimore police Ashanti Pinkney

"The majority of his career has been in our aviation unit as an observer, so he's very tactically sound," Northern District Maj. Rich Gibson said.

Harrison said the suspect and another man found in a separate room suffering from gunshot wounds were taken to a hospital, where they died.



"We only fired at one suspect," Harrison said. "We only encountered one suspect who fired at our officer and we only fired in one direction at one person."

Police identified the suspect Tuesday as Ashanti Pinkney, 49, who lived in a nearby apartment building.

Police identified the clinic employee who was fatally shot as David Caldwell, 52.

Police said a 41-year-old female employee of the clinic was also injured during this incident.

"She was transported to a hospital, and her injuries, at this time, are not believed to be life-threatening," Harrison said.

Pippy Scott, a patient, was in the clinic speaking with her counselor when the gunman arrived. Scott said the man held a gun to the head of a staff member.

"All of a sudden, we heard this 'bang' noise. I didn't know if it was a gun or something hitting metal ... Come to find out, it was a gun. Honey, he had the woman by the head and had the gun at her head. She was a nurse," Scott said.

Scott said the gunman was trying to get the larger container of methadone used to distribute smaller daily doses.

"He was a quiet person. He stayed to himself," Missy Hamilton said.

Hamilton said she's known Pinkney for years.

"We would sit down and talk sometimes. He was friendly with everybody. I ain't never known him to get into nothing with nobody," Hamilton said.

A motive is unclear. Pinkney was apparently known to the clinic, Harrison said.

"Preliminary indication is that he went in to get methadone and had to be buzzed in because it is secure door and was allowed entry, and at that point, he began to escalate, and from there, we received the call of an armed suspect," Harrison said.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Patient at methadone clinic where BPD officer and at least 2 others shot this morning says gunman demanded large container of the medication..held nurse at gunpoint before police arrived pic.twitter.com/Aog02Axy7j — Jayne Miller (@jemillerbalt) July 15, 2019

Detectives spent time inside a nearby apartment building that residents said is where the suspected gunman lived. Police said a firearm was recovered at the scene.



"We recovered what we believe to be the suspect's gun on the scene near his body," Harrison said.

Harrison praised Officer Christopher Miller, 32, a three-year veteran, whom he said put his life in danger when he pulled Shiflett, his supervisor, to safety after Shiflett was shot.



Baltimore police

"The other officer is a 2 1/2-year veteran and actually dragged Sgt. Shiflett out of the building, and it was very heroic and we're going to ensure that he's commended for what he did," Gibson said.

"This was a dangerous situation that could have been far worse for our officers. They showed extreme courage, extreme bravery and extreme professionalism, all of which was captured on bodycam video," Harrison said.



Gov. Larry Hogan released a statement, saying, "This morning, a senseless act of violence in Baltimore City took the life of a civilian and injured a police officer. Our hearts are with the victims' loved ones, and we are grateful for the prompt response by law enforcement."

Shiflett has a wife and two daughters and extended family who are by his side at the hospital.

"I've had the opportunity to meet with the officer's family -- his wife, his children, his sister and brother -- and they are doing well, and at this moment, we want to make sure that our thoughts and prayers are with our officer for a speedy recovery," Harrison said.



Police body-worn camera has been reviewed.

Maryland Avenue was closed in the area until about 4:15 p.m.

Harrison's full press conference:

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

BPD opening 2100 block Maryland Ave..scene of shooting at methadone clinic earlier this morning. Two dead incl suspect. BPD sergeant wounded pic.twitter.com/QqwCdkxWTo — Jayne Miller (@jemillerbalt) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Grateful for the bravery of Sgt. Billy Shiflett of the @BaltimorePolice

Department. @USAO-MD stands with you, your family, and BPD and hopes for

a full and speedy recovery. — US Attorney Maryland (@USAO_MD) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

We send our best wishes for a full recovery to Sgt. Billy Shiflett of the @BaltimorePolice Department, who was shot and wounded this morning after responding to a report of an active shooter. Everyone at FBI Baltimore is rooting for you, Sgt. Shiflett. — FBI Baltimore (@FBIBaltimore) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

The @MDSP family sends our sincerest wishes for a quick and complete recovery to Sgt. Bill Shiflett, of the @BaltimorePolice. Our thoughts are with you. Thank you for your 25 yrs of police service. We also thank the @BaltimoreFire & @shocktrauma for their great work today. — MD State Police (@MDSP) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

BPD Commissioner Michael Harrison at scene of shooting on Maryland Ave

Several sources say police were called to methadone clinic for armed person.

BPD officer shot and wounded, another person in the clinic shot, suspect shot. pic.twitter.com/FrqCfxD6od — Jayne Miller (@jemillerbalt) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

President Mancuso reports that Sgt. Billy Shiflett is out of surgery and is in stable condition. We thank everyone for their prayers and support at this difficult time. @BaltimorePolice — Baltimore City FOP (@FOP3) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

I’m at shock trauma awaiting a news conference to learn more about the Baltimore city police officer shot in the 2100 block of Maryland Avenue and taken to shock trauma #WBAL pic.twitter.com/YHgmJGXi3z — Theo Hayes TV Journalist (@TheoHayesTV) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Northern District: Officer involved shooting. 2100 block of Maryland Avenue. PIO responding to the scene. — Baltimore Police (@BaltimorePolice) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Due to @BaltimorePolice Activity, expect road closures in the area of Maryland Ave and W 21st St 21218. #BalTraffic https://t.co/d0GJ7C2nel pic.twitter.com/ez4xGD6gx6 — Baltimore City OEM (@BaltimoreOEM) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

BREAKING NEWS on @wbalradio as I’m on the scene of a reported @BaltimorePolice involved shooting along Maryland Ave at 21st Street pic.twitter.com/7N6xE6D4Jg — Scott Wykoff (@ScottWykoffWBAL) July 15, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.