Updated at 2:15 p.m. July 19: Revised to include the gunman's name, additional details.

An officer fatally shot a man Thursday morning at a West Fort Worth apartment complex after the man used children as human shields while firing at police, authorities said.

Advertisement

The officers and the hostages were not wounded.

Advertisement

Police were called to an "active shooter" situation in the 2900 block of Broadmoor Drive shortly before 11:30 a.m. Thursday, records showed.

Breaking News Get the latest breaking news from North Texas and beyond. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT

The woman who called whispered that there was a man with a gun with her in a third-floor apartment, along with three others, including children, interim Fort Worth Police Chief Ed Kraus said.

Officers in rifle-resistant body armor and helmets went to the apartment building, where the man was holding a child as a shield and firing at officers, Kraus said.

Advertisement

Later, SWAT officers arrived and saw the suspect firing shots at police from a third-floor window.

They breached the door to the apartment after attempts to negotiate, and "at least one shot was fired by our SWAT officers," Kraus said. Police said Friday that the man raised his weapon after officers told him to surrender.

Markeyvion Devonte Cannon (Tarrant County Sheriff's Department)

The suspect, whose was identified as 19-year-old Markeyvion Devonte Cannon, was hit and taken to a hospital, where he died of his injuries, Kraus said. No one else was injured.

Police said the hostages being held in the apartment were a 19-year-old woman, a 15-year-old boy and a 12-year-old girl.

Advertisement

The officer who shot Cannon, who has been with the department for nine years, has been placed on routine administrative leave. His name was not released.

Advertisement

Police said Friday that Cannon was at the apartment to visit his ex-girlfriend and their infant child.

There was an active warrant for him on a charge of domestic-violence assault stemming from a May 21 incident with the ex-girlfriend, police said, and she had requested an emergency protective order against him. Police were called after an altercation during Thursday's visit.