A man killed in a downtown Birmingham shootout that critically injured a police officer brandished a knife at lawmen trying to arrest him less than two years ago.

Authorities have identified the slain suspect as Roderick Wilson, a 35-year-old east Jefferson County resident. Wilson died in a row of hedges along 22nd Street North.

Birmingham police say Wilson robbed a mom-n-pop supermarket and then engaged officers in a running gun battle before he died in a hail of gunfire. Wilson was shot multiple times and identified through fingerprints because he was not carrying any identification.

Police were called to a robbery in progress at the Family Supermarket on 23rd Street North between Fifth and Sixth avenues about 6:30 p.m. Wednesday.

Authorities said as officers arrived, they saw a suspect – now identified as Wilson - leaving the store.

They encountered and attempted to stop him. Wilson then pulled out a handgun and opened fire.

What happened next has been described by authorities as a running gun battle – and later an ambush - through downtown streets.

Lawmen said Wilson made a wide circle while trying to make his getaway, with shots exchanged with police on multiple occasions.

The shootout ended on 22nd Street North between Fifth and Sixth avenues. Though authorities are still trying to confirm details, it is believed that is where Stafford was shot.

Investigators think Wilson was crouched down in hedge row alongside a small parking deck when Stafford passed by him on the sidewalk and Wilson then opened fire. Officers then returned fire.

Stafford’s fellow officers then loaded him into a police cruiser and rushed him to UAB Hospital’s Trauma Center. Stafford took between five to seven shots, not including rounds believed to have struck his bulletproof vest.

Wilson was shot multiple times. He was pronounced dead on the scene at 7:10 p.m. Authorities have not said how many officers fired on Wilson.

Alabama court records show Wilson had a history of run-ins with the law. Efforts to reach his family have been unsuccessful.

Though never convicted of a felony, Wilson had been arrested on more than half-dozen charges over the past decade, and as recently as two weeks ago.

Wilson was arrested July 5 on charges issued in February 2018 of attempting to elude a police officer and resisting arrest. He spent one night in the Jefferson County Jail and was released the following day on $600 bond. Details of what led to those charges weren’t immediately available, but court records said he ran from Jefferson County sheriff’s deputies trying to arrest him.

In October 2018, Wilson pleaded guilty to third-degree assault after police say he beat up a man, causing cuts to the victim’s mouth and nose.

Wilson was arrested on that charge in May 2018, as well as unrelated charges of obstructing government operations and resisting arrest. A Jefferson County sheriff’s deputy was trying to arrest him, and he repeatedly refused to take his hand out of his pocket. That charge, as well as the resisting arrest charge, were dismissed as part of a plea agreement on the assault charge.

In December 2017, Wilson was arrested by sheriff’s deputies on charges of menacing, disorderly conduct and resisting arrest. Deputies were dispatched to Highway 79 on a report of a person throwing rocks at vehicles. When deputies arrived at the scene, he was standing in the roadway screaming and cursing, according to a deposition in the case.

When deputies approached Wilson, he continued to scream and curse.

“He became extremely violent and pulled a knife on deputies,’’ the report states. “Deputies commanded the suspect to drop the knife.”

The report went on to say that Wilson didn’t drop the knife and instead began to run. He was taken into custody only after being hit with a Taser stun gun. He pleaded guilty to the menacing charge in exchange for the disorderly conduct and resisting arrest charges being dismissed. He received a 12-month suspended sentence.

Stafford, meanwhile, continues to recover. Police officials on Thursday said Stafford was shot once in the face, twice in the torso, and multiple times in one leg. “The vest was a factor and definitely in this instance, probably saved his life,’’ Birmingham Police Chief Patrick Smith said. “However, he was still hit multiple times and he’s going to have a long road to recovery.”

“It’s difficult for us to determine the number of times he was shot because some rounds passed through his body multiple times,’’ the chief said. Stafford underwent surgery Wednesday night and again Thursday morning. He faces multiple additional surgeries and still has at least two bullets in his body.