A Loveland man was found dead inside his apartment Tuesday following a multi-hour standoff with the Larimer County Sheriff’s Office and Loveland police.

Deputies arrived at an apartment at 930 N. Monroe Ave. at 8 a.m. for a court-ordered eviction. The male resident “brandished a weapon at deputies” before barricading himself inside the apartment, according to a news release from Larimer County Sheriff’s Office spokesman David Moore.

Loveland police and their SWAT team were called to assist the sheriff’s office with the eviction.

The Loveland Police Department Crisis Negotiation Team made "numerous unsuccessful attempts" to talk the resident out of the apartment, Loveland police Lt. Bob Shaffer said in another news release. The SWAT team entered the apartment after several hours of attempts and found the man dead.

Wild neighbors: Mountain lion shows up in Loveland backyards

The man, identified as 37-year-old Alexander Vogel, died by suicide, the coroner's office said after an autopsy was performed Wednesday.

Shaffer did not specify the duration of the standoff.

A reverse-911 alert was sent out to residents in the area of the incident asking them evacuate if they lived in the apartment or shelter in place if they lived nearby about 8 a.m. A final message was sent about 4:25 p.m. stating the situation had resolved.

Larimer County residents can sign up to receive reverse-911 alerts through the Larimer Emergency Telephone Authority by visiting leta911.org.

Mental health sales tax: The money starts flowing. Here's where it's going.

Suicide warning signs

Feelings of being a burden, entrapment, unbearable pain

Increased anxiety

Isolation

Increased substance abuse

Looking for access to lethal means

Increased anger or rage

Extreme mood swings

Expressions of hopelessness

Sleeping too little or too much

Talking or posting about wanting to die

Making plans for suicide

How to help someone who is struggling

Ask how they're feeling (don't be afraid to use the word "suicide")

Find out how to keep them safe

Be there for the person

Help them connect with resources, help

Follow up, even when they seem to be happy

SOURCE: U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Help for people in crisis

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255, or call 911.

SummitStone Crisis Stabilization Unit , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: summitstonehealth.org/services/

UCHealth's Poudre Valley Hospital and Medical Center of the Rockies crisis centers: uchealth.org/services/behavioral-health/

Coloradoan reporter Sady Swanson contributed to this report.

Meredith Spelbring is a multimedia reporting intern for the Coloradoan. Follow her on Twitter @mere0415. Sign up to get the latest news delivered right to your inbox for free.