Medford police are asking for the public’s help to find Aiden Salcido, the 2-year-old son of a couple found dead Wednesday in an apparent murder-suicide in Montana.

The driver of a sport utility vehicle with Oregon plates Wednesday fled from police in Kalispell, Montana, on Wednesday night. Police eventually spiked the vehicle’s tires, bringing it to a stop. When they approached it, they found two people dead inside: Daniel Salcido, 21, and Hannah Janiak, 24.

Aiden Salcido, 2. (Medford Police Department handout)

Medford police say they believe Janiak had been shot in the head and Salcido died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Their son, Aiden, was not in the vehicle. Police said there was no evidence he had been.

The green 1996 GMC Jimmy had been purchased in late June or early July in Central Point, Oregon, police said.

The unmarried couple was reported missing July 11 after Janiak failed to appear to begin serving a jail sentence for a burglary conviction in Jackson County, authorities said. Felony warrants for Salcido had been issued July 15 stemming from the same burglary, police said. The two had been accused of stealing a handgun, rifle and more than $10,000 in precious metals and coins in a burglary, court records show.

Janiak’s last financial activity happened June 3 and 4 when two purchases, including camping equipment, were made at a Medford Walmart, police said. Investigators reviewed surveillance video that showed the couple together with Aiden.

Hannah Janiak. (Medford Police Department)

Daniel Salcido. (Medford Police Department)

Medford police say family told them the three were homeless and camped in Medford.

Medford police said in a news release that they are “greatly concerned for Aiden’s welfare” and are searching for him with the help of the FBI. Detectives are looking for any information on his family’s whereabouts since they were reported missing July 11.

Anyone with information is asked to call 541-774-2258 and reference case 19-10842.

The car driven by Hannah Janiak and Daniel Salcido. (Medford Police Department handout)

— Rob Davis

rdavis@oregonian.com

503.294.7657; @robwdavis

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.