*Updated with details from Williamsport Bureau of Police news release, 7/25/19, 3 p.m.

What began as a reported altercation in Williamsport resulted in two vehicles speeding from the scene, a crash on W. Fourth Street in the city where the suspect fired shots at the victim’s vehicle, then fled to a residence in Lock Haven.

Wednesday evening just after 7 p.m., two vehicles sped away from a reported altercation at a location in the city, both reconvening at the intersection of W. Fourth Street and Elmira Street.

Eyewitness reports from the scene say the victim was stopped at the intersection when the shooter, Thomas Matthews, age 32, blocked the intersection with his vehicle, reportedly beige in color, exited the vehicle and began firing at the victim, identified as Kerry Young, age 37. Young then sped around the Matthews' car while Matthews continued to fire.

An eyewitness who watched from the sidewalk reported hearing seven shots fired. Young continued westbound on W. Fourth Street where his vehicle crashed into several parked cars no more than a block away, before rolling onto its side.

Emergency services were called to extradite the Young from the vehicle. He was transported by ambulance to UPMC, “where he later succumbed to his injuries and was pronounced dead,” according to a media release from Williamsport Police Department.

Matthews fled the scene. ”The Pennsylvania State Police located vehicle used by Matthews near his residence in Lock Haven, Pa.,” according to the release. “The Williamsport Bureau of Police obtained an arrest warrant for Matthews for Criminal Homicide and related offenses.”

A stand-off between Lycoming County Special Response Team (SRT) ensued. According to the media release, “During an attempt to get Matthews to come outside and surrender, he committed suicide.”

The Williamsport Police Department is handling the investigation with help from the Pennsylvania State Police and Lock Haven Police and Fire units.

Success! An email has been sent to with a link to confirm list signup. Error! There was an error processing your request. Get Our Free Newsletters Never miss a headline with NorthcentralPa.com newsletters. Sign Up Today! Morning Headlines: Would you like to receive our daily morning newsletter? Afternoon Update: What's happening today? Here's your update! Daily Obits: Get a daily list straight to your email inbox.