Bailey LeFever,Eliot Kleinberg,Wayne Washington

blefever@pbpost.com

BOYNTON BEACH — Adalberto Wolmar Rodriguez was a convict before his 21st birthday, served two stints in Florida prisons and was on parole from New York state when, Boynton Beach police say, he had his last, and fatal, confrontation with the law.

City police say officers shot and killed the 62-year-old man Sunday after he had robbed a discount store, then had walked across the street to a busy supermarket, where officers told him not to reach for his gun, but he did anyway.

"The officers took action to stop that threat, and basically protect the hundreds of people who were inside shopping and working," Boynton Beach police chief Michael Gregory told reporters Sunday at Boynton Lakes Plaza, the shopping center at Congress Avenue and Hypoluxo Road, where the shooting took place.

As of Monday evening, the department had not provided the names of the officers involved. They are on administrative leave, which is department policy after an officer-involved shooting. The case was taken over by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which the city retains to investigate all officer shootings.

>> CRIME PBSO: Drug-debt feud likely motive in Greenacres-area killing

According to records, Rodriguez, who lived west of Lantana, was in state prison from August 2005 until March 2017 after receiving a 15-year term on a 2002 Palm Beach County armed robbery conviction. He also served eight years on a 1992 conviction, also for armed robbery.

Records show that in January 2018, Florida assumed supervision of the remaining six years of a 22-year parole term New York had instituted in 2002. The New York conviction also was for a 1983 armed robbery conviction in Brooklyn, according to Florida and New York records.

Prior to that, according to the New York state records, he was convicted in 1977 for an armed robbery in the Bronx and was placed on two years of parole.

The New York records list Rodriguez as Alberto Wolmart and Alberto Wohmart.

Police have said that about 5 p.m. Sunday, he robbed the Dollar Tree store on the 4700 block of North Congress Avenue, then walked east across the street to a Publix Super Market.

Officers already at the Publix store, having heard that robbery call, saw the man and saw that he was armed, and ordered him to stop. When he began to reach for the gun, one or more officers shot him, the police chief said. The department also provided a photo of the handgun.

Several calls to numbers listed for Rodriguez or relatives either were not returned, or turned out to be wrong or disconnected numbers.

>> LATEST FHP: Gardens man, 70, among two who died in Sunday crash on I-95

On Monday morning, police did not have a presence at the plaza, and some shoppers had not heard of the shooting.

Abod Shabib, manager of Ali Beauty Supply, next to the Dollar Tree, said he was working Sunday when the robbery occurred, but didn't see or hear anything. But, he said, he did hear the shots across the street at the Publix as he helped a customer select a wig. He said he doesn't recall any serious crime in the two years he's worked at the store.

A spokesman for Regency Centers, which owns the Boynton Lakes Plaza, where the Publix is a tenant, did not immediately return a call Monday. A call to MMG Equity Partners, which owns the strip center where the Dollar Tree is, also was not immediately returned.

EK@pbpost.com

@eliotkpbp

wwashington@pbpost.com

@waynewashpbpost

blefever@pbpost.com

@blefever10