A former TV show bailiff and veteran sheriff's deputy has been charged with murder after his wife was shot dead in their Texas home.

Renard Spivey, who is a deputy with the Harris County Sheriff's Office in Houston, was charged on Monday night over the fatal shooting of his 52-year-old wife Patricia Spivey.

Authorities say the 63-year-old was off-duty when he called police at about 3am on Sunday to report an accidental shooting at his home.

Spivey, who worked as TV show bailiff on Justice for All with Judge Cristina Perez from 2012 to 2016, was found suffering a gunshot wound to his leg.

Renard Spivey, who is a deputy with the Harris County Sheriff's Office in Houston, was charged on Monday night over the fatal shooting of his wife Patricia Spivey

His wife was pronounced dead at the scene.

Police said the couple were involved in a 'domestic disturbance' just prior to the shooting.

Authorities would not provide any additional details about the lead up to the shooting.

Spivey remains in hospital and is scheduled to undergo a mental health assessment.

The Harris County Sheriff's Office said they have no record of any domestic violence related incidents involving the veteran deputy.

Court documents obtained by ABC13 state that Spivey could possible have a mental illness or an intellectual disability.

Spivey (right) is a deputy with the Harris County Sheriff's Office in Houston and worked as TV show bailiff on Justice for All with Judge Cristina Perez (left) from 2012 to 2016

Authorities say Spivey was off-duty when he called police at about 3am on Sunday to report an accidental shooting at his home

Police said the couple were involved in a 'domestic disturbance' just prior to the shooting. His wife Patricia was found dead inside their home

Houston Police, who are leading the investigation, said there was an elderly man at the home when the shooting occurred but he told investigators he didn't hear or see anything.

Spivey has been ordered not to contact his wife's family or have any access to weapons as part of his bond conditions. He will also have to wear an ankle monitor.

Patricia's brother Ezra Washington said she was heavily involved in her local church and loved photography.

'She just loved life. Always smiling. Always loved photography. Loved to take pictures,' he said.

'I know where she's going. I know the life she lived. You know, she did well. Gone too soon but she did well.'