The estate of a man who was killed by police last summer will receive nearly $1 million in a wrongful death settlement from the City of Portland.

Lane Christopher Martin was one day shy of 32 when he was shot nine times by Portland police on July 30, 2019. According to an autopsy report, Martin died after wounds perforated both his lungs and heart.

Martin was struggling with addiction and mental health issues when he was killed by Officer Gary Doran of the Portland Police Bureau.

A grand jury later found no criminal wrongdoing on the part of police in Martin’s death, but the City of Portland has agreed to pay his estate $975,000 in a settlement of a wrongful death lawsuit.

The mayor’s office did not respond to multiple requests for comment.

“No amount of money can ever bring Lane back,” said Jesse Merrithew, the lawyer for Martin’s family. “However, Lane’s family is hopeful that this settlement sends a message to the Portland Police Bureau that they must do better when dealing with people in crisis.”

Police responded to a report of a man causing a disturbance with a weapon in a Safeway parking lot along Northeast 122nd Avenue at 4:20 p.m. on July 30, 2019. A 911 caller said a man was attempting to break into a car.

According to officials, a store security guard confronted the man and he displayed what witnesses described as an ax or hatchet.

Officers first fired sponge-tipped munitions at the man, causing him to drop the weapon and flee.

Police followed him through the Ash Street Courtyard Apartments at 12026 S.E. Ash St., where he was shot multiple times and died.

Police said that Martin had a knife on him. According to police reports, one officer witness said Martin had a knife in his hand and walked one or two steps toward the officers.

Tests showed 1.2 milligrams of methamphetamine and 0.12 milligrams of amphetamine in Martin’s blood when he died.

His mother, Cristi Martin, was notified of his death the following day, on what would have been his 32nd birthday.

“I have a lot of respect for police,” she told The Oregonian/OregonLive at the time. “They put their lives on the line every day. I just don’t understand why they felt that this was justified. ...Nothing can bring my son back.’'

According to Merrithew, Martin’s family “is looking forward to moving past the focus on his death to focusing on his life and helping to create a lasting legacy of that life.”

“A portion of the settlement proceeds will go to a scholarship fund in his name at the school where he loved and was loved so deeply,” Merrithew added, “the College of the Arts at Portland State University.”

-- Lizzy Acker

503-221-8052, lacker@oregonian.com, @lizzzyacker