An NYPD lieutenant shot his girlfriend of 22 years dead in the Long Island home they shared - then turned the gun on himself, cops said yesterday. The bodies of Stephen Bouillon, 49, and Joan McHugh, 47, were found in an upstairs bedroom of their recently remodeled two-story house in quiet, well-to-do Roslyn Heights about 2:30 p.

m. yesterday. Bouillon, who joined the NYPD in 1980 and became a lieutenant in 1995, worked out of the Internal Affairs Bureau, police said. McHugh was a nurse. Nassau cops went to 22 Deepdale Parkway after Bouillon's colleagues - worried that he had not shown up for work yesterday - called to request a check of the house, Detective Sgt. Dennis Barry said. Unable to enter through the locked front door, they climbed onto the first-floor roof and came in through a window leading to the bedroom - and the bodies. The couple had lived there for about two years, neighbors said, and were members of the neighborhood Browers Hill Civic Association. Another shooting The deaths were discovered as a wake was being held for Theresa Flannery, a 33-year-old NYPD lieutenant found fatally shot in her Long Island home last week. It isn't clear if her death was a suicide or accident. She worked in the Traffic Control Division in Manhattan. Neighbors on Deepdale Parkway, a winding road lined with well-kept homes, said they were stunned to learn of the murder-suicide. "I'm in shock," said Marina Morgikian, 42, a pharmacist who works in Manhattan and lives next-door. "I didn't hear or see anything last night. My dogs didn't react funny or anything.

Advertisement

" She said another neighbor saw McHugh about 9 p.

m. Sunday night and that everything seemed okay. "She waved hello and had a quick conversation with the neighbor," Morgikian said. Investigators were trying to determine if the murder-suicide happened Sunday night or early yesterday. Bouillon spent most of his time at the Long Island house, but also maintained an apartment in Jamaica, Queens, where some of his family lives, investigators said. A man who answered the phone at the Queens apartment last night declined to comment. "The family is really struck. Nobody is in a position to talk right now," he said. Roslyn Heights neighbors said the couple was friendly but reserved. "They were quiet but they would say hello," said Debbie Sledz, 48. "It looked like things were going good for them," said Bob Calleo, who lives down the block. "You would never suspect this kind of trouble, something this dramatic. This is a very quiet and peaceful area.

Advertisement

" Neighbors said the couple had no children and no pets. McHugh, they said, often was seen puttering around her garden. The couple recently put a new roof and siding on their house, repaved the driveway and told people they were planning to put a pool in their backyard.