A man was shot and fatally wounded by police early Wednesday after they say he took three hostages and pointed a gun at responding officers.

The incident, described as an "emotional crisis" by Chattanooga police, happened just after 4:30 a.m. in the 3700 block of Kellys Ferry Road.

Police officers responding to the call were told a suspect, later identified as 42-year-old Jerry Reeves, was "armed with a long gun, holding three hostages," a news release states.

Officers set up a perimeter around the residence and the on-duty hostage negotiation team established communication with the suspect in an attempt to persuade him to disarm himself and come outside, officials said.

Reeves then came out with the long gun. Officers gave verbal commands for the suspect to drop the firearm, the release states, but he did not comply and raised his weapon toward police.

Hamilton County Sheriff's Department personnel work the scene on Kelly's Ferry Road where a Chattanooga police officer allegedly shot a resident when he would not lay down his long gun early Wednesday morning. / Staff photo by Tim Barber



In a news conference Wednesday, Chattanooga police Chief David Roddy said at least one officer fired at him.

Police rendered aid to Reeves until ambulance personnel arrived. He was then taken to a local hospital where he died shortly after.

The firearm was found as officers processed the scene, officials said.

The officers involved have been placed on administrative leave per departmental policy, and the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office will handle the investigation, officials said.

Based on preliminary information, though, Roddy said that it looked as though his officers responded appropriately.

It was the second officer-involved shooting in less than a week, and the seventh shooting in 10 days. Those shootings resulted in nine victims, five of whom died.

At the Wednesday news conference, Roddy asked the community for its support and understanding.

"It has been a rough few instances in our community," he said, asking people to be "mindful of what that situation looks like for all of us [police and community members], and keep each other in our thoughts and prayers ... let's just continue to pull together as a community as we move through these events."

Chattanooga police ask anyone with information about the incident to call 423-698-2525. Callers can remain anonymous.