UPDATE: Homicide victim identified, suspect shot and killed during police chase

UPDATE: (8/2/19, 3:56 p.m.)

The Montgomery County Coroner’s Office has identified the woman authorities say David Willoughby killed Thursday.

The coroner says she is 54-year-old Anna Gail Stephens, of Jeffersonville.

–

MONTGOMERY COUNTY, Ky. (WTVQ) – A homicide suspect was shot and killed by authorities after colliding with law enforcement vehicles during a police chase that spanned three counties Thursday afternoon, according to KSP.

Investigators say 54-year old David Willoughby, of Jeffersonville, was a suspect in a Montgomery County homicide after a woman was found dead on Welch Road just after 1:00 p.m. on Thursday.

The woman’s name wasn’t immediately released nor the circumstances surrounding her death.

An hour after the woman was found dead, a State Trooper tried to pull over the driver of a pickup truck who was driving erratically and at a high rate of speed on Richmond Road (KY 52) in Estill County, according to KSP.

Investigators say the driver stopped on Knob Lick Road in Estill County and intentionally hit a law enforcement car. A short time later, the same pickup truck was spotted on Red Lick Road in Madison County by another Trooper that led to a second pursuit.

That chase continued on U.S. 421 into Jackson County, but investigators lost sight of the pickup after the driver drove into a wooded area off of Rice School Road. A perimeter was set up in the area and the search began for the pickup truck and its driver.

State Police say the preliminary investigation indicates Willoughby tried to get away again along Rice School Road, hitting multiple law enforcement vehicles in the process. KSP says that’s when units were forced to shoot Willoughby, who died at the scene.

The incident is under investigation by the KSP Critical Incident Response Team, which investigates all officer-involved shootings in the state.

The homicide investigation is being conducted by the Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office.