The two Colorado Springs police officers who killed 19-year-old De’Von Bailey in August did not see a gun before they shot the teenager as he ran away, according to interview transcripts released Monday along with other investigative documents from the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office.

But both Sgt. Alan Van’t Land and Officer Blake Evenson said they saw Bailey holding his waistband, were certain he had a gun and believed he presented a threat to the community when they fired, according to the transcript.

A grand jury unanimously determined the shooting was justified in November. The El Paso County Sheriff’s Office, which conducted the investigation into the officer-involved shooting, released 385 pages of investigative documents Monday.

Included were transcripts of interviews with both Van’t Land and Evenson, who in August recounted what they remembered from the shooting. The two officers shot Bailey around 6:45 p.m. Aug. 3 in the 2100 block of Preuss Road after stopping Bailey and his cousin because they matched the descriptions of two people reported to be involved in an armed robbery.

Bailey initially listened to police when they told him to put his hands up, but then ran when the officers said they were going to pat him down to check for weapons.

Evenson, a seven-year veteran on the Colorado Springs police force, said he couldn’t see Bailey’s left hand as he ran, but saw Bailey reach for his waistband with his right hand.

“His hand was in his pants. That’s what I saw,” Evenson said. “It was past the waistband part cause the waistband was over his wrist when he was reaching it.”

He said he heard Van’t Land fire a shot before he too fired.

“(I) thought he was gonna grab his gun and shoot us or shoot at somebody nearby or maybe even go carjack a citizen,” Evenson said, according to the transcript. “You know, something like that. I — at that point in time to me he had a weapon and he was reaching for it.”

Van’t Land, who has been on the force for 11 years, told investigators that he couldn’t see either of Bailey’s hands as he ran.

“I can’t see his hands. I can just see the back of him. Um, but I can tell by the angle of his arms, that they are here at his waist,” Van’t Land said, according to the transcript.

He said he was 100% certain Bailey had a gun, both because he matched the description of the robbery suspect and because Bailey ran when he learned he’d be checked for weapons.

“I felt very sure that he was going to be drawing a gun and turning and shooting either me or my partner, the other cops behind us if he misses, his buddy who’s also behind us,” Van’t Land said, according to the transcript, adding later, “So at that point, I decided I was going to have to shoot him rather than wait for him to draw the gun and get off the first shot that could hit me or someone else.”

The shooting was heavily criticized and received national attention after police released body camera footage that showed officers shooting Bailey in the back as he ran away.

Mari Newman, an attorney representing the Bailey family, said the family was not informed the investigative report would be made public Monday and said the officers’ reasons for firing fall short.

“Wild speculation that someone might at some point in the distant future commit some crime is hardly a legal justification for shooting someone in the back as they are running away,” she said.

Colorado law allows police officers to shoot fleeing suspects who are suspected of violence if the officers “reasonably believe that it is necessary” to defend themselves or others from imminent serious harm; the law also allows officers to shoot people suspected of committing felonies involving the use of a deadly weapon if it is necessary to prevent them from escaping custody.

A jury acquitted Bailey’s cousin, Lawrence Stoker, who was stopped with him that day, of assault in connection with the alleged robbery. Stoker’s attorney said after the verdict — which was delivered in less than 10 minutes — that he believes the man who reported the robbery made a false report as retaliation after a fight.

Newman said Monday that Bailey was not a “fleeing felon” and that the Bailey family plans to file a lawsuit.

“Just as Lawrence Stoker was acquitted of committing any crime, so would De’Von have been if the police hadn’t decided to execute him first,” she said. “He was not a ‘fleeing felon.’ He was a kid who made a bad decision.”