An Otsego County Sheriff's deputy is recovering after a head-on crash Tuesday with a suspect who died while allegedly fleeing from law enforcement in Richfield Springs.

The investigation remained ongoing Wednesday. New York State Police said it began when troopers approached the suspect in a vehicle around 2:30 p.m., after getting a complaint about the suspect harassing and threatening another person with a knife.

A pursuit onto Route 20 ensued after the suspect, Matthew E. All, 23, of Sharon Springs, allegedly fled from troopers.

The pursuit continued east, and troopers said All reached the intersection of routes 20 and 80.

By that point, Otsego County Sheriff's Deputy James Mateunas was parked in his patrol vehicle, facing west and monitoring the pursuit with his emergency lights activated.

For an unknown reason, troopers said, All drove into oncoming traffic and struck Mateunas' patrol vehicle head-on.

More:Broome County sheriff's deputy injured by accused drunken driver gets NYS Senate award

More:Broome sheriff's deputy crash: Accused drunken driver rejects plea offer with prison time

Mateunas was taken to Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown. His injuries were described as serious but not life-threatening. Troopers described him as still being "coherent" at the scene of the crash.

All was pronounced deceased at the scene by Otsego County Corner Michael Fox.

The Otsego County Sheriff’s Office, in a statement on Facebook, asked the public to "keep Deputy Sheriff James Mateunas and his family in your prayers."

Another chase we covered:Fugitive who led U.S. Marshals on Tioga County chase gets 2 years in prison

Our 2017 Watchdog report:Across NYS, police chases kill every year

Otsego double homicide:Kevin Perry drunkenly threatened to kill his parents; now he's in prison for their murders

Home invasion homicide:Pennsylvania men indicted on murder, burglary charges in Apalachin home invasion

Follow Anthony Borrelli on Twitter @PSBABorrelli. Support our journalism and become a digital subscriber today. Click here for our special offers.