Fredderick Hadden died in a gunfight with Burke County Sheriff's Deputy Eric Madison after he shot his ex-wife twice.

Burke County, GA – A Burke County sheriff’s deputy has earned praise for his rescue of a woman who was being held hostage at gunpoint by her convicted felon ex-husband (video below).

Freddrick Andrews Hadden Jr., 45, got out of prison on July 2 after serving five years for two counts of felony family violence battery and cruelty to children, among other charges, the August Chronicle reported.

On Aug. 10, Hadden’s son called 911 and told dispatchers that his father had kidnapped his mother at gunpoint from her house in the 4400-block of Jones Street in Hephzibah in Richmond County.

Responding Richmond County deputies discovered that Hadden also had property in Burke County and put out a lookout to law enforcement in that area at 3:54 p.m., WRDW reported.

Burke County Deputy Eric Madison spotted Hadden’s burgundy Toyota at about 4:30 p.m. and followed it into a driveway at the corner of Farmer’s Bridge Road and Springhill Church Road, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.

When the Toyota stopped, Hadden’s hostage tried to make a run for it. She jumped out of the suspect’s vehicle and dashed for the deputy’s patrol car.

Deputy Madison said he jumped out of his car as Hadden opened fire and shot his ex-wife twice as she ran for safety behind the police car.

The deputy returned fire and fatally shot Hadden, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.

The patrol vehicle was also struck by bullets during the gunfight.

Bodycam video of the incident showed how quickly things erupted when the cars stopped.

Deputy Madison said in the video that the woman was shot just as she passed in front of his vehicle.

He immediately returned fire from behind his car door.

The video showed Hadden fell to the ground but continued grabbing for his weapon that had fallen a few feet away from him.

Deputy Madison continued firing until the suspect had been neutralized, the video showed.

The wounded woman was transported to AU Medical Center and was reported to be in stable condition, according to the Augusta Chronicle.

Hadden was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Columbia County Sheriff’s Office was investigating the officer-involved shooting, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.

At the time of his death, Hadden was serving only his second month of eight years on probation, the Augusta Chronicle reported.

He had a no contact order for the ex-wife that he kidnapped.

The Augusta Chronicle reported that Hadden was convicted of having attacked his ex-wife and 18-year-old son in their home on June 22, 2014.

He punched his former wife and dragged her through the house by her hair.

Then he bit his older son when the teen tried to intervene, all in front of the couple’s 12-year-old son, the Augusta Chronicle reported.

Burke County Sheriff Alfonzo Williams announced Monday that the district attorney had determined that the officer-involved shooting was “absolutely” justified, the Augusta Chronicle reported.

“Hadden fired two shots at the victim, striking her both times, and undoubtedly would have continued to shoot her but for the heroic actions of [Deputy Madison],” District Attorney Natalie Paine wrote in her report to the sheriff that cleared the deputy to return to duty.

The Burke County Sheriff’s Office posted a message about the incident on their official Facebook page that praised Deputy Madison’s response to the incident.

“Deputy Eric Madison did an amazing job in an extremely difficult and tense situation,” the post said. “We ask that you keep him and everyone involved in your prayers.”

You can see video of the gunfight below. WARNING – Graphic Content: