Hoodsite and hoodsite.com was an uncensored crime news and gore videos shock site which reported on real life events.

Due to the graphic nature of some of the content found on the website, access was restricted to adults of 18 years of age and older.

Videos found on Hoodsite were bloody, offensive, shocking and upsetting.

Hoodsite.com was founded on the following fundamental principles; freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the right of the public to be informed.

WHAT HAPPENED TO HOODSITE?

Since September 2020, the website has been the target of constant negative SEO attacks aimed at sabotaging Hoodsite.com’s search engine rankings.

As a result, hoodsite.com has since officially rebranded to USA CRIME.

While the domain hoodsite.com is no longer in direct use and now redirects to usacrime.com, Hoodsite is still active and prominent on social medias.

You can follow Hoodsite’s OG accounts: Hoodsite Instagram, Hoodsite Youtube and Hoodsite Reddit. These accounts are all ran by hoodsite.com and by usacrime.com.

You can also bookmark Hoodsite Beacons for all social medias owned and ran by hoodsite.com.

WHAT IS USA CRIME?

USACRIME is Hoodsite’s parent company. As mentioned above, hoodsite.com is now officially usacrime.com.

No other website besides hoodsite.com is endorsed nor affiliated with the Hoodsite brand and trademark. Any other website using Hoodsite with a different domain extension is a fake and a phony, and is only intended to steal organic searches for keyword hoodsite in search results — all while spamming you with adware and trojans.

VIEWER BEWARE: ANY OTHER WEBSITE CLAIMING TO BE HOODSITE BESIDES HOODSITE.COM MAY CONTAIN OR TRY TO INSTALL MALWARE ON YOUR COMPUTERS/DEVICES THROUGH POP UP ADS, SNEAKY REDIRECTS AND DOORWAY PAGES. ALWAYS MAKE SURE TO VISIT EITHER USACRIME.COM OR HOODSITE.COM ONLY.

That being said, USACRIME.COM brings you the latest US crime news reports and videos. We also cover breaking crime news from all around the world.

At USACRIME, we give you all the facts and videos as we encounter them.

Moreover, topics and videos found on USACRIME include shootings, murders, stabbings, robberies, racism and aggravated assault. We also cover car accidents, animal cruelty, gang violence and street fights, just to name a few.

OUR MISSION

Hoodsite and USACRIME’s mission is to inform, raise awareness and educate on real life events and situations occurring around the world.

Neither Hoodsite nor USACRIME condone any of the actions found in the gore videos posted on usacrime.com.

No accident is beautiful, no crime is pretty, no homicide is nice to look at. But by not seeing these situations for what they truly are, no matter how gut wrenching a news incident might be, you are censoring yourself from the truth and accept being lied to by not seeing things with your own eyes.

Censorship is mostly used by those who detest freedom and progress, simply to stop truths or ideas from coming to light. To censure content just because some may find it blasphemous, obscene or moral-corrupting should be of utmost concern.

When you learn to accept how violent our world really is, only then will you be able to make your own opinion on the matter and see the truth.

By self censoring yourself to the content found on USACRIME, you are censoring yourself from reality.

WHAT IS A SHOCK OR GORE SITE?

As a rule of thumb, a shock site or gore site such as Hoodsite or usacrime.com is usually a website that is intended to be offensive or disturbing to its viewers. But we at Hoodsite and at USACRIME on the other hand strongly disagree.

Being a crime oriented website, we report on crime. And unfortunately, crime can be shocking and upsetting. But it most definitely does not mean that we condone or approve of such horrible or heinous acts of violence seen on some of the gore videos posted on our website.

If you search up the definition of gore, it means blood that has been shed, especially as a result of violence.

Well, we can name you countless times in our lives where we have indeed shed blood. So in a way, we’re all or have all been exposed to gore at some point in our lives. A simple paper cut and we’re done for.

SO WHERE DO GORE SITES GET THEIR VIDEOS FROM?

Being a gore website, a question we see a lot is where do shock sites like Hoodsite and USACRIME get their grisly videos from.

The simple mention of the word gore and some people have their pants in a frenzy. Some people talk about using vpns as if visiting gore sites were illegal or on the dark web.

Well, we’re here to break that myth. So where do real gore videos come from? Drumroll… Most gruesome and graphic videos come from social medias.

Wait what? Let me clarify. Have you noticed how on social media platforms you sometimes stumble on posts covered with a trigger warning? Because the posts or videos in question contain graphic or gory content.

Further, in an era where technology is prominent, it’s not hard to stumble on real live gore videos either way. Everyone has a cell phone. Surveillance cameras on every corner. And with social medias flocking the internet, graphic videos online are therefore here to stay.

And where is there the most users on the internet? You guessed it, on social medias. Some social media platforms have over 2 billion active accounts. And when someone does happen to witness and record video of a crime, the first thing people do is share the grisly clip with friends and family members online.

Subsequently, long gone are the days where such horrible videos were reserved for the dark web.

IS IT ILLEGAL TO WATCH GORE?

So is it illegal to watch gore videos online? You probably get the picture by now… But in case it still isn’t clear: Absolutely not!

It’s illegal to murder somebody. It’s illegal to watch somebody get murdered and not report it. But it’s not illegal to watch an online snuff film.

In the US, websites such as Hoodsite.com and USACRIME are protected from liability by Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act if they’re posting user generated content. In effect, they are just showing something created by somebody else. They’re not doing anything illegal, even if that something is a murder.

WHERE CAN I WATCH GORE VIDEOS ONLINE?

So where can you watch the best gore videos online? Right here on USACRIME. While the whole website is focused on uncensored crime news, our gore videos page is for those extremely disturbing and shocking grisly gore vids.

USA CRIME aims to inform and raise awareness, while remaining completely unbiased and transparent in the way we cover news.

Hence, you will stumble on some live gruesome gore videos on USACRIME.

Just as it was on Hoodsite, topics and videos found on USA CRIME include shootings, beheadings, gore and real death videos. Likewise, you’ll also find Mexican cartel executions, stabbings and heinous murders caught on camera. Ever been to Brazil? You won’t want to after you see some of the gruesome gore videos posted on our tube.

Car accidents, work accidents, freak accidents, police shootings, gang violence, animal cruelty… You name it! USACRIME is filled with these horrible gory clips and videos guaranteed to haunt your dreams and give you nightmares.

No other shock site does it best. USACRIME is the ultimate destination for shock gore and uncensored crime news. A plethora for gore vids and clips of extreme graphic violence.

TO CONCLUDE

In conclusion, Hoodsite and hoodsite.com is now usacrime.com. USACRIME is the best website to watch real death videos and gore online. A true gem for the morbidly curious.

By visiting usacrime.com, you acknowledge and agree that you are at least 16 years of age, that you wish to view adult-oriented content, and that the viewing or downloading of such materials does not violate the legal standards of your country.

Viewer beware; gore vids ahead!