San Diego police have identified the burglary suspect who died and the three officers who struggled to arrest him in the Midway District on Tuesday.

Buddie Thomas Nichols II, a 40-year-old from Indiana, was suspected of breaking down a backyard fence and walking into a home on Hornet Way near Rosecrans Street about 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday.

Though Nichols, a father of five, was from Indiana, his father said he’d been living in the San Diego area for about four years, mostly aboard a boat. Buddie Nichols I described his oldest child as a “happy-go-lucky kid” who “loved life” and spent a lot of his time helping military veterans fix their boats.

The officers who tried to get Nichols handcuffed were identified as Brian Kashouty, a six-year Police Department veteran, Scott Spring, a four-year veteran and Taylor Davoren, on the department for 18 months.

The incident unfolded while two adults were upstairs in the home and their 9-year-old daughter was asleep downstairs, homicide Lt. Matt Dobbs said in a statement. The male resident heard the fence being battered and went downstairs, where he confronted Nichols, who had walked in an open door.

Advertisement

He punched Nichols twice, knocking him unconscious. He then kicked Nichols, who came to and ran outside. The resident called 911 and told dispatchers the intruder was “in front of his house acting strangely,” Dobbs said.

An officer arrived and tried to detain Nichols, who resisted and struggled until two other officers arrived, Dobbs said.

“The officers used a combination of physical force and strikes to the arms to get the suspect handcuffed,” Dobbs said in a statement Tuesday. “The officers believed the suspect was demonstrating symptoms of excited delirium and requested paramedics.”

As paramedics were assessing Nichols, he became unresponsive, Dobbs said. Medics administered first aid and took him to a hospital, where he died at 4:49 p.m.

Because Nichols died while in custody, homicide detectives were called in to investigate. The resident who fought with Nichols and other witnesses told investigators they believe Nichols was under the influence of drugs.

Police said that shortly before the 911 call at the home on Hornet Way, another caller reported that a man had been trying to open doors of homes on nearby Belknap Way. Investigators said they believe the incidents were related.

Nichols’ father and step-mother, Angeline Nichols, flew from Indiana to San Diego early Friday morning. Outside their Mission Valley hotel later in the evening, they questioned the police narrative of what happened Tuesday, and vented their frustration that the county Medical Examiner’s Office, citing protocol, would not let them see Nichols’ body.

“They have not been helpful at all, even knowing I came here from Indiana,” Nichols said of both the police and Medical Examiner’s Office. “They are not being candid.”

Angeline Nichols said authorities shared slightly more details with the family than they’d released publicly, but that the family was struggling to make sense of what they’d been told.

According to his father, Nichols had three children in Indiana and two in California. He was the founder and CEO of Pro Petitioners, a company that hired signature-gatherers for political issues that included marijuana and casino legalization.

Angeline Nichols also said her step-son considered himself a “sovereign citizen” — an ideology the FBI described in 2010 as anti-government extremism whose followers consider themselves separate or “sovereign” from the United States.

Sovereign citizens reject all taxation, don’t believe in the authority of law enforcement and flout many laws, including obtaining licenses and registering vehicles.

Arrest records show Nichols was arrested twice last year, including once by San Diego police, on suspicion of reckless evading of a peace officer. One of those times, he was also suspected of driving without a license. It was unclear if he was ever charged, or what happened in those cases.

“He was not a friend of police,” Nichols’ step-mother said, though she and his father called him a kind, free-spirited person who called them weekly.

Anyone with information about Tuesday’s incidents was asked to call the Police Department homicide unit at (619) 531-2293 or San Diego County Crime Stoppers at (888) 580-8477.