[April 20, 2010] Officer who shot man was suspended 3 times for misconduct Tweet

EL PASO, Apr 20, 2010 (El Paso Times - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- Officer Jorge Gonzalez, who shot and seriously wounded a motorist after a rear-end crash, had been suspended three times during his five-year career for misconduct including allegedly racially profiling a black high school student and "manhandling" a teen, his records show.







Jorge Gonzalez shot Andres Elias Cortez, 20, in the neck on April 1 after Cortez rear-ended the gold SUV in which he and another off-duty officer, Michelle Gonzalez, were traveling.



The shooting occurred about 4 p.m. on Gateway West Boulevard near the Yarbrough Drive intersection.





Cortez's family said he is now paralyzed.



The El Paso Times obtained more than 300 pages of personnel files on Jorge Gonzalez and Michelle Gonzalez.



According to those files, Jorge Gonzalez was suspended for two days in January 2008 after being accused of racially profiling a black high-school basketball player for wearing a blue do-rag and a blue shirt outside of Austin High School.



aEURaEUR Jorge Gonzalez 2008 suspension files aEURaEUR Jorge Gonzalez settlement agreement with EPPD 2008 Gonzalez repeatedly asked the student if he belonged to a local gang.



Jorge Gonzalez admitted telling the student he fit the profile of the gang members and that's why he kept asking the same question, according to the report.



"Don't take this the wrong way," Jorge Gonzalez said to the teen, according to the report. "This is not what it sounds like, but if people were to see you walking down the street dressed in blue, and not that it matters, and you're black, what are they going to think ... that you're a Crip." The files also said Jorge Gonzalez was suspended for 56 hours after he handcuffed and "manhandled" another teenager while he was on a routine patrol in the 900 block of North Resler Drive in May 2007.



aEURaEUR Jorge Gonzalez 2007 suspension files Jorge Gonzalez searched the teen without having reasonable suspicion after the teen was unable to supply identification, the report said.



He didn't complete a report on the incident, but he did call the teen's mother to tell her that her son was being arrested for resisting arrest after the teen failed to keep his hands on the hood of the police car.



A review of the police car's mobile video recorder showed that Jorge Gonzalez pushed the teen down on the hood "with such force that his baseball cap is seen flying off his head" and grabbed him by the back of the neck, according to the report.



Jorge Gonzalez was also suspended for 80 hours in June 2009 after he followed a man to his business and accused him of evading and resisting arrest.



aEURaEUR Jorge Gonzalez 2009 suspension files The report said that Jorge Gonzalez violated multiple procedures in his attempt to apprehend a man who had told him during a traffic stop that the reason he was speeding was because an alarm had been triggered at his business in the 1700 block of Montana Avenue.



Video evidence showed Jorge Gonzalez violated police procedure and called for backup assistance only after he realized the man was on the phone with police dispatch, according to the report.



Internal Affairs questioned Jorge Gonzalez's course of action and ethical standards.



Some of the charges lodged against Jorge Gonzalez during internal investigations accuse him of violating ethical standards, violating police procedure and violating his police powers.



Jorge Gonzalez was also required to take anger management classes.



In a performance evaluation last year, Jorge Gonzalez was rated as "exceeds performance standards." The evaluation described him as an experienced, self-motivated officer who is well-liked by co-workers and "has demonstrated he can work under stress." The Internal Affairs disciplinary history card of Officer Michelle Gonzalez lists two written reprimands since joining the Police Department in 2002.



Documents show she was reprimanded for failing to secure a prisoner on April 26, 2003, and for crashing a police car into a rock wall on Yarbrough Drive while rushing to help other officers on Feb. 1, 2006.



She was rated as "competent" in a performance review last year. The document stated Gonzalez was a graveyard shift desk officer at the Pebble Hills Regional Command.



The review noted she needed to improve on safety and shooting skills because she once accidentally fired a Taser stun gun and was seen by supervisors holding a shotgun in an unsafe manner.



The review also stated Michelle Gonzalez was recognized for customer service.



aEURaEUR Michelle Gonzalez 2009 performance evaluation report A woman called the police station to commend her for being helpful and taking time to teach children about safety. The woman, the review stated, said she hoped all officers could display that same type of courtesy to the public.



Detective Mike Baranyay, a police spokesman, said there is not a set number of times an officer can be suspended before being fired.



Every complaint that requires discipline is going to be handled on its own merits and some cases could lead to termination, he said.



Baranyay said on April 1 that the officers were not related and he didn't know why they were traveling together.



They were in street clothes when the accident occurred. Police said they had gotten out of their vehicle when Cortez allegedly tried to flee and hit Michelle Gonzalez.



Police said she fell to the ground. Cortez then reversed and appeared to move toward Michelle Gonzalez again.



Jorge Gonzalez verbally identified himself as a police officer, police said, and gave Cortez orders to stop before shooting him.



Manny Mendoza, Cortez's uncle, said he didn't understand why the Police Department didn't have a limit on the number of suspensions an officer could have before being fired.



"Typically you can only give your employee so many chances ... police officers are not exempt from putting up quality work," Mendoza said.



Allegations that Cortez was trying to flee after he struck the officer's SUV could be inaccurate, Mendoza said.



"For all we know, he was trying to get off the freeway and move into a safe area and pull over ... The speculation that he was trying to flee is speculation as well," he said.



Maggie Ybarra may be reached at [email protected]; 546-6151.



El Paso Times reporter Daniel Borunda contributed to this story.



To see more of the El Paso Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.elpasotimes.com. Copyright (c) 2010, El Paso Times, Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email [email protected], call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

[ Back To TMCnet.com's Homepage ]