A 37-year-old Upstate man was shot and killed in Belton, South Carolina on Wednesday afternoon as deputies with the Anderson County sheriff’s office were attempting to serve a warrant for his arrest. The shooting occurred at around 4:45 p.m. EDT on the 900 block of Simpson Road in Belton –…

A 37-year-old Upstate man was shot and killed in Belton, South Carolina on Wednesday afternoon as deputies with the Anderson County sheriff’s office were attempting to serve a warrant for his arrest.

The shooting occurred at around 4:45 p.m. EDT on the 900 block of Simpson Road in Belton – a town of around 4,400 located roughly 25 miles south of Greenville, S.C.

According to our sources, the deceased suspect – Thomas Michael Reynolds – was allegedly “terrorizing the neighborhood” and had recently attempted to “attack a female neighbor.” Deputies were attempting to serve an arrest warrant for assault and battery against Reynolds related to that alleged assault at the time of the shooting.

Initially armed with a butcher’s knife, Reynolds is alleged to have barricaded himself inside a Simpson Road residence armed with a long gun when two Anderson deputies – both white males – arrived to serve the warrant.

(Click to view)

(Via: Anderson County Sheriff’s Department)

A volatile standoff ensued, with the deputies attempting to convince Reynolds to surrender peacefully.

He did not …

Instead, according to police, he “engaged” the officers – resulting in at least one of them opening fire and mortally wounding him.

“If you come at us with a weapon or a firearm, you can pretty much expect what’s going to happen,” Anderson sheriff Chad McBride told local television station Fox Carolina.

As a matter of protocol, the investigation into this shooting – the 31st officer-involved shooting in the Palmetto State this year – will be handled by agents of the S.C. State Law Enforcement Division (SLED).

-FITSNews

WANNA SOUND OFF?

Got something you’d like to say in response to one of our stories? Please feel free to submit your own letter to the editor (or guest column) via-email HERE. Got a tip for us? CLICK HERE. Got a technical question or a glitch to report? CLICK HERE. Want to support what we’re doing? SUBSCRIBE HERE.

