MAYFIELD — The Fulton County Sheriff’s Department on Sunday identified the Northville resident who killed himself Saturday night at a village of Mayfield Stewart’s Shop after police were looking for him in connection with a burglary that included a stolen shotgun.

Deputies in a news release identified the man as 47-year-old David Draffen, who was recently released from state prison and was on parole until 2022.

The release indicated that at about 7:30 p.m. Saturday, the Fulton County Sheriff’s Office put out a Be On the Lookout, or BOLO alert for a “black pickup truck” that was missing from a home in the town of Northampton.

A burglary of that residence had been reported shortly before the BOLO went out. The BOLO was only to “locate and hold for the sheriff’s office,” the release said.

Sheriff Richard Giardino said today that Draffen at the time was a suspect in the burglary of a Northampton home whose owner he knew.

“He rented property from the owner of the residence,” Giardino said.

The sheriff said Draffen’s actual residence was “nearby,” but didn’t identify the road.

The release said that at approximately 8 p.m. Saturday, state police Trooper R. Mousaw located the suspect vehicle in the parking lot of the Mayfield Stewart’s Shop on Route 30. Two deputies and Giardino were on scene within two minutes, the release said.

Deputy Cody Fabian engaged the suspect, Draffen, for approximately 30 minutes. Additional deputies and troopers arrived.

Draffen was on parole and had recently been released from the Hale Creek State Correctional Facility on Maloney Road in the town of Johnstown. Despite multiple attempts by Fabian to “calm” Draffen and direct him to lower the shotgun, Draffen ended his life, the release said.

Assisting at the scene in addition to troopers were the Mayfield volunteer Fire Department, Greater Amsterdam Volunteer Ambulance Corps, Fulton County Emergency Services Director Steve Santa Maria, Fulton County Coroner Margaret Luck and Deputy Coroner Sherry Brown.

Giardino in the release thanked Stewart’s employees and management for their cooperation and pastors Richard Klueg and Bonnie Orth for their assistance.

The sheriff said Draffen’s criminal record goes back to an arrest on a warrant in Northville in 1989. He said he was later convicted of burglary and most recently had been at Hale Creek. Giardino said Draffen was due to be released earlier than he was, but had a parole violation that netted him more time.

A closer look at Draffen’s criminal record — provided publicly by the state Department of Corrections — indicates he was initially incarcerated at the Orleans state correctional facility on April 10, 1990 for a second-degree arson through Fulton County Court. He was released in 1998 and on parole until 2001.

Draffen was later convicted in Ulster County of felony second-degree burglary, grand larceny and fourth-degree criminal possession of stolen property and was sentenced to six years and four months, which he began serving on Sept. 2, 2011. He began serving at Hale Creek June 6 and was released July 25, according to VINE records.

Giardino said this latest Mayfield incident was a continuation of some tough, tragic incidents that the Fulton County Sheriff’s Department has had to deal with this season, including a drowning and standoff.

“It’s been an extremely busy and dangerous summer,” the sheriff said.

Giardino added that his department is “lucky” no police officers or nearby civilians have been hurt.

On the Fulton County Sheriff’s Office Facebook page, Giardino stated: “I would like to personally recognize and commend the members of the Sheriff’s Office and the state police who responded to the Mayfield Stewart’s for this incident. All showed professionalism and exercised restraint in an extremely volatile situation that could have ended up with injuries to the officers or civilians. I also would like to commend the FCSO emergency services dispatchers who did an excellent job coordinating the call and all the other calls going on during that timeframe.”

Michael Anich covers Johnstown and Fulton County news. He can be reached at [email protected]