The Carlsbad police officer who shot and killed 16-year-old Randall Gamboa during a homicide investigation said the teen brandished a gun and disregarded police instructions before the Aug. 29 shooting at an apartment complex on the north side of the city.

Detectives with the Carlsbad Police Department were investigating a homicide at about 10 a.m. at Woodside Village Apartments in the 600 block of North Fifth Street on the day of the shooting, read a news release from New Mexico State Police.

They were looking for Gamboa and as they surveilled the complex, noticed him walking toward the apartments.

Support local journalism.Subscribe to the Carlsbad Current-Argus.

Detective Patrick Bryant made contact with Gamboa, asking for his name and birth date, police said.

Gamboa allegedly gave a false name and date of birth and refused to provide his social security number, per the release.

The teen then displayed a black, semi-automatic pistol from his waistband, police said, and pointed it at Bryant.

The detective allegedly yelled “No. Stop,” before drawing his department-issued gun and fatally firing at Gamboa.

Recent shootings in Carlsbad

Police said detectives immediately attempted to render aid to Gamboa who was taken to the Carlsbad Medical Center where he later died.

The gun Gamboa allegedly brandished was believed to be connected to the homicide police were investigating, the release read.

Bryant was placed on administrative leave, per department policy.

He was employed by the Department for five years and eleven months at the time of the shooting.

More:Carlsbad police looking for armed robbery suspects

No officers were injured in the shooting.

At the scene, 47-year-old Richard Saunders said Gamboa was his nephew and was returning home when he was confronted by police.

"They said he was wanted for murder, but he's still a human being," Saunders said. "I don't know what was all going on with him. I don't know what these kids get into. I think he was just going home. He's had a rough upbringing."

He said the teen had a history of legal troubles.

This story will be updated as more information is made available.

More police news:

Adrian Hedden can be reached at 575-628-5516, achedden@currentargus.com or @AdrianHedden on Twitter.