Knoxville Police Department Officer Dylan Williams was justified in fatally shooting Channara "Philly" Pheap in August, prosecutors announced Thursday.

At a news conference, Knox County District Attorney General Charme Allen said her office reviewed a slew of evidence — including crime scene photographs, police cruiser video and five eyewitness statements — that all together corroborated Williams' account he shot Pheap because he feared for his life when Pheap choked him, grabbed his Taser and used it on him during a struggle at a local apartment complex.

"Based upon all the witness statements, the forensic proof and certainly the Taser, we believe that at the time (Williams) did believe that his life was in danger and that Mr. Pheap was in fact going to kill him," Allen said. "Therefore after a review of all those facts, we’ve determined that it was in fact a justifiable shooting."

One factor that played heavily in the decision, Allen said, was the trajectory of the fatal bullet.

Knox County Medical Examiner Dr. Darinka Mileusnic-Polchan said Pheap died of a single gunshot wound. She showed on a mannequin that the bullet struck Pheap in the back, just underneath his left shoulder blade. She said the bullet traveled left to right at a downward angle, and ultimately lodged itself in Pheap's right chest cavity.

The path of the bullet, Allen said, showed Pheap was not running away with his back facing Williams when the officer fired his gun. Instead, she said, it's likely Pheap turned to the side to shield himself just as Williams pulled the trigger.

"It is essentially a side-to-side shot, with Pheap's left side facing the gun," reads a memo from Allen's office explaining the decision not to prosecute.

Mileusnic-Polchan said toxicology tests showed Pheap, 33, had cocaine in his system. A piece of foil that witnesses said Pheap threw from his pocket before he died contained brown residue that also tested positive for cocaine. That "may explain some of why Mr. Pheap was running from the police," Allen said.

More:Read the full memo from Allen's office

How the struggle began

The shooting happened on Aug. 26 after Pheap, driving a gold sedan, struck a grey SUV containing an 81-year-old grandmother and drove away, the investigation found.

A bystander who saw the wreck on Baxter Avenue called 911 and followed the sedan. He gave a description of the car and its driver, and read off its license plate. The information was broadcasted over police radio channels.

Williams, a K-9 officer who joined the department in 2014, looked up the license plate and found the car was registered to an address at Clear Springs Apartments off Merchant Drive in northwest Knoxville. He drove to the complex, saw an empty car that matched the description and parked his marked SUV at an angle behind it.

Williams got out, asked some residents who drove the sedan and walked around the building, where he encountered Pheap. Their conversation was recorded by Williams' microphone but was not caught on video. It occurred out of frame of the camera in Williams' cruiser, and Knoxville Police Department officers do not wear body cameras.

"Hey, do you drive a car down here?" Williams asked, according to audio and video released for the first time at the news conference Thursday.

"No," Pheap said.

Williams used his radio to ask for a description of the suspect in the hit-and-run.

"Light to medium skin, black male or Hispanic," came the response.

"Oh, what do you know," Williams said to Pheap, who was of Cambodian descent.

'I thought he was gonna kill me'

Williams told investigators Pheap appeared nervous and fidgety as the officer repeatedly asked him if he had anything in his pockets. As Williams began to pat him down, he began to fight the officer, the investigation found.

Video footage from Williams' cruiser shows the two men wrestling in a grassy area between two apartment buildings. It had been raining, and the ground was muddy. At one point, Pheap managed to roll on top of Williams.

"Officer Williams described that while Pheap was on top of him, Pheap used his arm or hand to push on Officer Williams' throat, making it difficult to breathe," reads the memo from Allen's office. "Officer Williams stated that this was the first point at which he feared for his life."

What happened next was not caught on video. Pheap ran to the side of the police cruiser in the parking lot. Williams twice threatened to shock Pheap with his Taser. The officer said at that point, Pheap turned around and put his hands in the air — only to lunge forward and grab the front of the Taser moments later.

Williams said Pheap wrested the Taser from his grasp as he tried and failed to free his police dog from the back seat of his cruiser. Pheap fired the Taser at the officer, and Williams said he felt electricity in his arms and neck.

"I thought he was gonna kill me. I thought he's gonna shoot this at me, he's gonna incapacitate me and he's gonna be able to take my gun and shoot me," Williams told investigators, according to the memo. "I had time to think, I'm gonna die and thinking about my wife and kid that I'm never gonna see again."

Williams fired two shots with his service weapon. Prosecutors said Pheap then ran, bleeding, around a nearby dumpster and fell to the ground.

'It happened very quickly'

Williams used his radio to report the shooting, asked nearby residents if they saw what happened and told them to stick around if they did. At one point, when a woman asked why he shot Pheap, he told her Pheap took his Taser and tried to use it on him.

The Knox County Sheriff's Office, which investigated the shooting per an agreement between the two law enforcement agencies, spoke to five eyewitnesses during its investigation, Allen said. Three of those people were outside during the struggle, while two watched from a window inside their apartment.

"This event was very traumatic. It happened very quickly," Allen said. "Their statements are somewhat contradictory. Some of them contradict themselves within their own statements."

But the statements, taken together along with other evidence, support Williams' account of the shooting, Allen said. The evidence includes crime scene photographs showing the locations of various Taser components in the parking lot, audio and cruiser video, data downloaded from the Taser, tests that confirmed the presence of Pheap's DNA on the Taser cartridge and photographs of Williams after the struggle. The officer was left with a muddied uniform, scrapes and bruises and a Taser probe caught in his duty belt.

Allen said she wanted to hold the hour-long news conference to explain her decision in detail and to dispel some misinformation that had been reported about the case. Three people at the apartment complex that day — including some who spoke to Knox News — gave early accounts that do not line up with what the investigation found, she said.

'A challenging and traumatic time'

While the probe unfolded, authorities for months declined to release key details about the shooting, including whether Pheap was armed and where on his body he was shot. Community activists cited the lack of information to call for increased transparency and body cameras for city police officers.

Those calls grew in intensity after Pheap's family released a preliminary report obtained from the Knox County Regional Forensic Center that listed his cause of death as "gunshot wound of back." Days later, Williams released a statement through his attorney, saying he shot Pheap once in the side of his body only after Pheap took the officer's Taser and shocked him with it.

Last month, Pheap's family filed a lawsuit accusing city and county officials of wrongly withholding public records related to the case. The future of a hearing on the matter, set for Tuesday, is now unclear.

Allen said Thursday she believes the pace of the investigation has been "rather quick."

"We're thorough, we consider everything, and we're more than willing to share that information as soon as we are legally able to do that," she said.

The past several months have marked "a challenging and traumatic time for Officer Williams, his wife and his family," reads a statement released Thursday by Williams' attorneys at the Bosch Law Firm.

"Anytime an officer uses deadly force to protect himself and the public, it weighs incredibly heavy on the officer," the statement continues. "This case is no different. This shooting, while tragic, was unavoidable to protect the life of Officer Dylan Williams, as well as the safety of the public at large.

"The moment the suspect violently took the Taser from Officer Williams and deployed it at him, Officer Williams was left with no choice but to use deadly force by firing his service weapon.

"Officer Williams has been and remains an outstanding officer in this community. He is thankful that this matter has now been cleared by the District Attorney General and looks forward to resuming his efforts in community policing in the near future."

In a statement, Knoxville Mayor Madeline Rogero said Williams will remain on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal affairs investigation.

Reach Travis Dorman at travis.dorman@knoxnews.com. Follow him on Twitter @travdorman.