A Phoenix police officer fatally shot a homicide suspect under surveillance during a carjacking attempt Friday morning after the suspect fired a shot at a police officer, officials said.

The shooting happened near 91st Avenue and Van Buren Street, around 8 a.m., Phoenix police spokeswoman Sgt. Maggie Cox said.

Police detectives and officers were in the area of 3900 W. Buckeye Road conducting surveillance on a man who was wanted as a suspect in a homicide on Aug. 17, Cox said.

During the surveillance, police saw the man leave the area in a vehicle, she said. Detectives began following the man, who was identified by police late Friday as Rene Enrique Ruiz, 51, Cox said.

Detectives attempted to stop the vehicle near 43rd Avenue and Buckeye Road, but the suspect sped off, she said. The detectives began to back off, but a Phoenix police helicopter was called in to continue following the man's vehicle, Cox said.

The vehicle stopped near 87th Avenue and Polk Street, just north of Van Buren, Cox said. As police attempted to contain the vehicle, the suspect rammed an undercover police vehicle, which disabled the suspect's vehicle, she said.

Ruiz ran off and then tried to carjack a motorist in the area of 9100 W. Van Buren Street, Cox said.

"Detectives witnessed that in progress. They immediately took action to prevent that victim from being carjacked," Cox said.

An officer used his vehicle to force the suspect to the ground, then officers approached him, Cox said. Ruiz drew a handgun and fired a shot at an approaching officer but missed, she said. That officer fired his gun, striking Ruiz.

POLICE SHOOTINGS:Every 5 days, an Arizona officer shoots someone

Ruiz was taken to a hospital and later died, police said.

The officer who fired his weapon was described only as a 39-year-old man, with 20 years of service.

Ruiz's gun was recovered at the scene.

There were no injuries to officers, the victim or bystanders. The officers were not wearing body cameras at the time of the incident, nor did they have dashboard cameras set up, Cox said. The investigation is ongoing.

The incident marked the 11th police shooting by Phoenix officers this year, Cox said.

Reach the reporter at bfrank@arizonarepublic.com or 602-444-8529. Follow her on Twitter @brieannafrank.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral today.