KAUKAUNA - The Fox Valley Metro police officer who shot and killed a 34-year-old man on Sept. 3 was justified and won't face criminal charges, Outagamie County District Attorney Melinda Tempelis announced Monday afternoon.

Fox Valley Metro police officer Sam Pynenberg shot and killed Eduard Alexis Lopez-Ucles shortly after 1 a.m. Sept. 3 after Lopez-Ucles fled from police in a vehicle and crashed in the roundabout at Outagamie County OO and State 55, state and local authorities said previously.

Lopez-Ucles was taken to a local hospital but later died of his injuries. An autopsy revealed he died of a single gunshot wound to the chest and abdomen, Tempelis said in a statement issued Monday.

The shooting wasn't recorded on video because cameras mounted inside the officers' vehicles weren't functional "due to technical difficulties," Tempelis said, and "due to the fast, dynamic pace of the events" that led to the shooting, no body camera video exists.

RELATED:Authorities identify police officer, suspect involved in Kaukauna shooting

RELATED:Person shot by Fox Valley Metro police after chase, crash in Kaukauna dies from injuries

On Sept. 2, Lopez-Ucles attended a gathering in Appleton and drank to the extent that another person was concerned about his ability to drive and even offered to have him spend the night or arrange a ride, Tempelis said. But Lopez-Ucles declined and left the gathering shortly after 1 a.m. Sept. 3 in a pickup truck.

Officers with the Appleton Police Department and Wisconsin State Patrol later saw Lopez-Ucles driving erratically, including when he stopped partially in the intersection of Oneida Street and Northland Avenue, driving between 55 and 60 mph in a residential area of Capitol Drive, losing control of his vehicle and nearly crashing on Ballard Road. Officers tried twice to stop Lopez-Ucles' vehicle, Tenmpelis said.

Pynenberg saw Lopez-Ucles nearly hit a parked car on Moasis Drive, go through a stop sign and drive between 45 and 50 mph in a 25 mph zone. Lopez-Ucles didn't stop after Pynenberg turned on his lights and sirens but instead continued speeding and swerving, nearly hitting other vehicles on the road.

As Lopez-Ucles approached the roundabout at County OO and State 55, he hit a sign, spun out of control and stopped for a moment in front of Pynenberg's vehicle, Tempelis said. Pynenberg got out of his vehicle and was yelling commands at Lopez-Ucles with his gun drawn when he heard the tires of Lopez-Ucles' truck squeal.

Pynenberg was afraid Lopez-Ucles "would kill him by driving at him," Tempelis said. He had no way to retreat and Lopez-Ucles' truck came within 2 feet of him. Pynenberg fired at Lopez-Ucles as as the truck "was moving past him," then continued firing as he moved back and to the right.

Lopez-Ucles continued on County OO but eventually stopped in a nearby lot. Officers immediately tried to help Lopez-Ucles after securing the scene, Tempelis said.

Investigators later found 11 shell casings in the roundabout, which matched the 11 rounds missing from Pynenberg's gun, Tempelis said. A half-full bottle of whiskey and 13 cans of beer were found inside Lopez-Ucles' truck.

Pynenberg's use of force was "necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or others," Tempelis said.

Contact Chris Mueller at 920-996-7267 or cmueller@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter at @AtChrisMueller.