Five years ago this afternoon, a New York City councilman was shot to death inside City Hall by a political rival who accompanied him to a Council meeting, pulled out a pistol and began firing in front of scores of stunned lawmakers and onlookers.

The assassination of the councilman, James E. Davis, 41, of Brooklyn, was one of the most tumultuous episodes in the 200-year history of the seat of government, which was built between 1803 and 1812.

The gunman, Othniel B. Askew, 31, had planned to challenge Mr. Davis in the fall for his seat representing central Brooklyn in the Council. Mr. Askew was apparently able to slip his gun into City Hall by accompanying the councilman, who did not have to pass through metal detectors.

At 2:08 p.m., as they were seated in the balcony of the Council chamber, Mr. Askew fired a silver .40-caliber pistol, hitting Mr. Davis twice in the chest. Mr. Davis, a retired police officer, was carrying a weapon, but it was in its holster, The Associated Press reported at the time.

As pandemonium broke out, a plainclothes police officer, Richard B. Burt, 34, who was assigned to City Hall and was filling in as a member of the detail that protected the Council speaker, Gifford Miller, drew his service pistol and fired it six times into the balcony, striking Mr. Askew five times and killing him.

Amid the chaos, City Hall was locked down, as politicians, city workers, journalists and visitors feared that the gunman might still be loose. Subway trains were rerouted, police units descended on Lower Manhattan and in the first confused moments many New Yorkers, with the events of 9/11 less than two years in the past, wondered if another terrorist attack had occurred.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who had been in office only 18 months and was in his second-floor office when the shots rang out, remained calm through the crisis, and immediately ordered security changes that required everyone entering City Hall — including elected officials and the mayor himself — to go through security detectors. Previously, officials like Mr. Davis could wave through their guests, a traditional courtesy that had been extended by the police.

It later emerged that Mr. Askew had contacted the F.B.I. about what he said was a sustained effort by Mr. Davis to intimidate him, promising that if Mr. Askew did not challenge him, he would receive a job with medical benefits. Mr. Askew, who grew up on Long Island, served in the Air Force and worked as a model, also had told law enforcement authorities that Mr. Davis had threatened to reveal he was gay.

Five days after the assassination, Mr. Davis’s body laid in state at City Hall as 7,000 mourners gathered.

Meanwhile, maneuvering began to fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Davis’s death. The councilman’s brother, Geoffrey A. Davis, took his spot on the ballot, but in the November election, Letitia James, a Working Families Party candidate, won the seat. (Ms. James has since become a Democrat.)

The fifth anniversary of the assassination has been the occasion for some reflection. At City Hall — where the lounge for City Council members was renamed for Mr. Davis in 2004 — a lunch was held on Friday in Mr. Davis’s memory.

On Tuesday night, a prayer vigil was held at St. James Place and DeKalb Avenue, on the edge of the Pratt Institute campus in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. At the vigil, Mr. Davis, who had won office in 2001 after several unsuccessful attempts, was remembered as something of a maverick.

“Five years ago, almost to this moment, many of us gathered here when we heard this news,” said Assemblyman Hakeem S. Jeffries, who organized and led the brief ceremony, which drew about 50 people.

Delia M. Hunley-Adossa, president of the 88th Precinct Community Council, read a poem in Mr. Davis’s honor and invoked the African belief that “a person never dies as long as his name is still spoken in the village,” while Councilman David Yassky remembered Mr. Davis as a “24/7 City Council member.”

Mr. Jeffries recited a favorite slogan of Mr. Davis’s — “Love Yourself” — and the crowd shouted back, three times, “Stop the Violence.” Then William Robinson, a member of Brown Memorial Baptist Church, began to sing “Amazing Grace.”

In a phone interview, Ms. James, who succeeded Mr. Davis as the representative for the 35th Council District, which spans the neighborhoods of Fort Greene, Clinton Hill, Prospect Heights and Crown Heights, reflected on his legacy. “He was a very complex figure, but one who spoke truth to power, spoke out against gun violence, could transcend race and socioeconomic status and was a man of great faith,” she said.

Ms. James recalled that five years ago, she was a young lawyer studying for a graduate degree in public administration at Columbia and working as an aide to Representative Roger L. Green when she heard the news of the killing. She said her thoughts immediately turned to Mr. Askew — who, she said, had spoken to her only a couple of days earlier about his dislike for Mr. Davis.

Although she ran against Mr. Davis in 2001 and against his brother in 2003, Ms. James has since patched up relations with the family. She participated in the Friday memorial lunch at City Hall and the Tuesday prayer vigil in Clinton Hill and has supported the James E. Davis Stop the Violence Foundation, founded by his brother, which opposes the sale of video games and music with violent themes.

At City Hall now, all visitors, from the mayor on down, go through security the same way.

“Even now, some people do come into the City Council chamber and glance up at the balcony, a bit warily,” said George Arzt, a former press secretary for Mayor Edward I. Koch who, as a lobbyist and political consultant now, is still a fixture at City Hall. “If it can happen once, it can happen again.”

Mr. Arzt said he did think security at City Hall had been vastly improved over the last five years (though he thought it took too long for the city to add police protection to 250 Broadway, the office building across the street from City Hall where most Council members have their offices). “This was the best-protected building in New York, everyone thought,” Mr. Arzt said of City Hall. “Now it really is.”

Annie Correal contributed reporting.