Tyler Clement described his uncle as a moody man who seemed broken by the death of his father and carrying anger fueled by alcohol.

Thursday, the 17-year-old said, the uncle, without warning, grabbed a 9mm handgun, shot his mother in the chest and then wounded the teen twice in the leg.

“He just said, ‘I have nothing to live for,’” the teen said, describing how he then ran into a nearby bedroom and jumped out of a window with a bloodied leg.

Original story:Man kills himself after shooting teen, woman inside Palm Bay home

Press conference:Police chief discusses attempted murder-suicide

“I watched him shoot her and then he shot me in the leg. As I ran, he shot me again. No one knew he had a gun. I thought it was a Taser at first… I thought I was going to die.”

The shooting — described by Palm Bay police as an attempted murder-suicide — happened about 7:10 a.m. Thursday, prompting a SWAT team response to the neighborhood off of Fallon Boulevard as parents walked their children to school.

Police said the teen along with his grandmother — identified by family as 69-year-old Barbara Franklin — were shot and wounded in the one-story home during what investigators describe as a domestic-violence episode.

Franklin, who underwent surgery at Holmes Regional Medical Center, remains in the intensive care unit, in critical condition.

The shooter, named as 43-year-old Robert Joseph Franklin Jr., shot himself to death while barricaded in the home at 1654 Fallon Blvd., police reported.

He had been on the phone with a Palm Bay police negotiator just moments before pulling the trigger.

Palm Bay police have not released the 911 call or other information about it, but family members said it was Robert Franklin's nephew, Tyler, who called for help. Tyler's grandmother stumbled out of the home, wounded, before police retrieved her and had her transported to Holmes Regional Medical Center in Melbourne.

Staci Franklin,Robert Franklin's sister and Tyler's mother, said her brother was a U.S. Marine and former law enforcement officer from New Jersey who was troubled and combative with other family members.

“Before, it was never extreme, it would just be his mouth, his comments,” she said.

“He was on the phone with me and the cop and he told me and the cop that ‘I want my sister…I’m not taking myself out till I take her out. And I ran from the cop toward the house trying to get shot, just to get him to the door so (police) could get them out of the house,” she said. “He told me my son was bleeding to death.”

By then, Tyler had jumped out of a side window beneath an oak tree and scrambled to get to a neighbor’s home before officers arrived. A neighbor wrapped up Tyler’s badly wounded left leg as Palm Bay police turned up with military-style gear in the ordinarily quiet neighborhood.

Robert Franklin had moved to South Carolina to care for his father’s ailing wife who later died. After his father died, he moved to Palm Bay.

Then the trouble began.

“Once he was here, he was drinking really bad. He was arguing over the littlest thing. It was like either the dishes, or a dog…anything," Tyler said Thursday afternoon as family members sat around a table on the screened-in porch at the house where the shooting happened.

"I’m almost never here, and now…I just got shot.”

Hours after being shot, Tyler was walking on crutches, his leg bandaged but still bleeding.

“There’s nothing nice to say about him. He’s crazy…he just shot his mom,” Tyler said, crediting police for their work.

“I thought he was going to try to kill me. Honestly, that was the closest I’d ever been to thinking I was going to die.” he said.

Contact Gallop at 321-242-3642, jdgallop@floridatoday.com and Twitter @JDGallop