Gabriel Rouse wanted to die by suicide by law enforcement but in the process, put people at risk, a Leon County grand jury found this week.

During a tense, 6-hour standoff on Sept. 18 with the Leon County Sheriff’s Office, Tallahassee Police Department and U.S. Marshals, the 44-year-old barricaded the doors and windows of his Little John Road mobile home and fired dozens of shots toward officers.

Fort Braden School was on lockdown as was the neighborhood as bullets exited the mobile home’s roof and walls.

After law enforcement offered multiple chances for him to come out, they entered the house. A hole was punched into the wall and officers saw Rouse holding a handgun to his head. He exchanged it for a sawed-off shotgun and turned it on officers.

It was then LCSO Sgt. Fred Smelt fired several rifle rounds, one of which hit and killed Rouse.

The grand jury found that the use of force that ended Rouse’s life, detailed in a no true bill clearing law enforcement released Friday, was justified and lawful.

“Rouse’s action demanded the force brought to bear,” grand jurors wrote. “The agencies showed extraordinary patience and discipline in allowing their negotiators and officers to extend countless opportunities to surrender peacefully. Rouse ultimately forced the result he had desired and expressed to the negotiator. He committed suicide by law enforcement.”

Officers swarmed the mobile home on the rural dirt road off Highway 20 after an attempt to arrest Rouse in connection with a domestic incident escalated into gunfire. He hit a woman with his hands and a broom stick before she fled the house.

The commotion was loud enough to prompt a neighbor to call 911.

Rouse’s criminal history, he did at least three stints in state prison, prompted deputies to approach his house with a dog.

He immediately fired two shots and went back into the house. He refused to surrender and throughout the course of negotiations, fired several different caliber guns through the roof, walls and windows toward responding law enforcement.

“Although it did not appear Gabriel Rouse was specifically targeting the responding law enforcement officer,” grand jurors wrote, “he discharged his weapon in the direction of the units.”

When tear gas was thrown into the mobile home, Rouse’s response was to fire a gun and then to barricade the doors and windows.

He moved to a rear bedroom when officers began to make entry, He continued to shoot while SWAT team members were inside.

A portion of the wall was ripped open by an armored vehicle exposing Rouse with a gun held to his head.

Grand jurors noted the danger the incident cause to law enforcement, neighbors and the nearby school in their findings.

“Fort Braden School was in close proximity and for over five hours, the children, faculty, parents and staff were locked down due to the danger Rouse placed them in,” they wrote. “We find that it was reasonable for the deputies and officers in this case to believe they, their fellow officers and civilians in the area were in imminent danger death or great bodily harm when confronted by Rouse.”

Contact Karl Etters at ketters@tallahassee.com or @KarlEtters on Twitter.