A Staten Island cop was struck in the hand and a domestic violence suspect shot dead during a Tuesday morning shootout, authorities said.

After shrugging off a Taser shock, Gregory Edwards squeezed off two shots at officers around 8:45 a.m. on Prince Street in Clifton — and apparently only stopped firing because a spent shell jammed his gun, cops said.

Two female officers returned fire, fatally striking the 39-year-old career criminal, though one of the officers caught a round in the left hand during the exchange.

The stricken officer, who joined the NYPD in 2016, was piled into a patrol car and rushed to Richmond University Medical Center, where Police Commissioner James O’Neill and Mayor Bill de Blasio rushed to her side.

“Today we’re reminded once again that no call is routine,” said O’Neill. “It was a vivid example of the dangers NYPD officers face each and every day keeping our city safe.”

The incident was set in motion when a woman called cops around 8:19 a.m. to accuse Edwards of punching her in the face when she tried to break up with him on Monday, police sources said.

As officers drove the woman around to search for her alleged assailant, she pointed out Edwards, according to police.

“The officers immediately dropped the victim off about a block away for her safety and returned to arrest the man,” said O’Neill.

As four cops moved in, “The suspect immediately became combative with the officers … and violently resisted their efforts to place him under arrest,” said the top cop.

Though one of the police zapped Edwards with a Taser, he pulled out a handgun and turned it on the cops.

“The officers, showing no hesitation, grabbed his hands to direct the muzzle away from everyone,” said O’Neill.

But Edwards still managed to squeeze off two rounds before a shell “stovepiped” — or turned vertical in his gun rather than ejecting — causing a jam, officials said.

The two cops fired three shots in the exchange, which left Edwards dead and one of the cops struck in the hand.

“Our officer did everything that she was trained to do, put herself in harm’s way and did an exemplary job,” said de Blasio. “She has injuries, but thank God they’re not life-threatening.

“What she did is an example to us all of how proud we should be of the NYPD.”

At the scene, cops cordoned off streets, grilled witnesses and reviewed evidence — including body camera footage — to recreate the shooting.

“I heard shots, two of them, around 9 a.m. and then people yelling and screaming,” said Cordell, 35, of 6 Hardy St., who declined to give his last name. “I came out and there were two cops giving CPR to a black guy in dreads.”

About two hours after the shooting, the situation was tense in the neighborhood as a group confronted almost a dozen community affairs officers — hurling obscenities and accusing police of covering up wrongdoing.

Police corralled several relatives and friends of the suspect at 31 Prince St., where they questioned them amid a stream of taunts and invective from the group.

“He has kids, a wife … none of you all give a f—!” one person was heard shouting.

“All of you can die!” another person yelled.

Among the group was a friend of Edwards, who said she was talking with him — her 1-year-old son nearby — when the drama played out.

“My child was sitting next to him and I had to drag my 1-year-old son to safety. He would’ve gotten shot too,” said Christine Wilson, 26.

Wilson disputed that Edwards had a gun — and claimed that the officer was hit by friendly fire — but acknowledged that Edwards was “trying to run” when confronted by police.

Edwards had 16 lifetime arrests dating back to 1997 — including at least three for weapons possession, according to police sources.

He also did five years behind bars for shooting a man and a woman in New Brighton in 2004.

In 2011, he was accused of firing several bullets into a house in Port Richmond — and the following year, he raped a woman in the same community, according to court papers cited by the Staten Island Advance.

Edwards was released from prison in October 2010, the news outlet reported.

Additional reporting by Israel Salas-Rodriguez and Aaron Feis