The State Attorney's Office has determined three law enforcement officers were justified in using deadly force when they fired an estimated 65 rounds at a suspect who rammed two patrol vehicles with a stolen dump truck last year in Milton.

Edward Matthew Cruz Guerrero, 34, of Milton, was killed in the shooting Sept. 17, 2019, on the campus at Pensacola State College in Milton. Authorities said he led law enforcement on a brief chase in a stolen dump truck and then rammed two different patrol vehicles before he was shot and killed.

No charges will be filed against the Santa Rosa County Sheriff's Office deputy or the two Milton Police Department officers who fired shots, according to State Attorney Bill Eddins, whose office reviewed the incident, along with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

"The use of deadly force exhibited by each of the officers was reasonable and justifiable under Florida law and no criminal charges should be filed against any of them," wrote Assistant State Attorney Amber Roland in a summary of the findings that was released Wednesday.

► The incident:Police: Suspect killed in officer-involved shooting stole dump truck, led police on chase

► Edward Matthew Cruz Guerrero:Police: Milton man killed in officer-involved shooting previously arrested for battery on officer

The incident started at about 5 a.m. Sept. 17, 2019, when Guerrero stole a dump truck from a gas station in Milton while the truck was parked at a pump and the driver was inside the convenience store, according to authorities.

Guerrero fled in the dump truck, and Milton police Sgt. Don Ferguson located the truck in the parking lot at the Santa Rosa County School District administrative center. He attempted to speak with Guerrero but the man fled in the truck.

Ferguson activated his cruiser's emergency lights and followed Guerrero onto the Pensacola State College campus at the corner of U.S. 90 and Avalon Boulevard.

Guerrero then stopped the truck, put it in reverse and backed into the front of Ferguson’s patrol vehicle before continuing to drive the dump truck farther into the campus, according to the summary.

SRSO Deputy Corey Berry then arrived on scene and saw the dump truck stop for a second time, reverse and once again ram Ferguson's police cruiser, causing the car to spin.

After the second collision, Guerrero continued to reverse the truck and struck Berry’s patrol vehicle, driving onto the front part of the SRSO vehicle.

By this time, Milton police Officer Nathaniel Davis arrived on scene.

All three law enforcement officers gave Guerrero verbal commands such as "Stop the vehicle" and "Show me your hands," according to the summary.

"Guerrero refused and began driving the dump truck in the direction of Officer Davis. Sgt. Ferguson, Officer Davis, and Deputy Berry began discharging their agency issued firearms at Guerrero until it came to a final stop, the door opened and Guerrero slumped over," the summary stated.

Investigators estimated a total of 65 rounds was fired at Guerrero — 13 by Ferguson, 29 by Berry and 23 by Davis.

An autopsy found Guerrero had been struck six times. The cause of death was listed as a gunshot wound of the chest, but he was also hit in his pelvic region and low extremities.

No officers were injured in the incident, though two patrol cars suffered significant damage.

Colin Warren-Hicks can be reached at colinwarrenhicks@pnj.com or 850-435-8680.