The Dallas officer who shot and killed a suspect last month at the West Salem Goodwill store said he feared for his life when the man drew a loaded pistol, according to reports released by the Salem Police Department.

The shooting occurred Sept. 18, while five members of the Polk County Interagency Narcotics Team were attempting to arrest suspect Scott Gabriel Spangler, 43, in a drug operation.

When Spangler ran from police, he was followed into the Goodwill at 585 Edgewater Street NW where he was tackled by Officer Darren Buchholz. Spangler struggled with Buchholz and pulled a pistol from his jacket pocket, according to the reports.

Grand Jury: No charges against Dallas Police officer who shot suspect at West Salem Goodwill

Buchholz ordered Spangler to drop the gun, but when Spangler continued to resist and tried to point his gun at the officer, Buchholz pulled out his own gun and shot Spangler in the face.

Details from police reports of the incident were first reported by Salem Reporter.

On Oct. 3, a Polk County Grand Jury determined the single shot fired by Buchholz was a lawful act of self-defense and there would be no criminal prosecution against him.

'Buy-bust' gone wrong

The narcotics team had been trying to arrest Spangler for several weeks after a confidential informant said they'd purchased heroin from Spangler several times, according to reports.

Officers organized what they call a buy-bust operation on Aug. 23 at the West Salem Safeway at 1455 Edgewater Street NW, but officers said Spangler never showed.

Buchholz, who'd been posing as a customer and communicating with Spangler via text, arranged a second meetup Sept. 18.

Buchholz agreed to purchase an eight-ball of heroin — 1/8 of an ounce — for $200. The officers from the task force all wore their vests and badges from their respective agencies during the operation.

The exchange was initially set to take place at the West Salem Safeway but Spangler changed the location to the Goodwill that day, reports said.

Spangler also mentioned to Buchholz he wanted to sell a gun but later recanted his offer.

Previous coverage:Suspect, officer identified in West Salem Goodwill shooting; two knew one another from 2015 arrest

Around 1 p.m., undercover narcotics team members watched Spangler arrive at the Goodwill parking lot in a black PT Cruiser with two companions. He walked into the Carl's Jr fast-food restaurant nearby with his female companion.

The male companion followed the couple into the restaurant and was not seen again by police. The report said the man gave Spangler the keys to the PT Cruiser and told him there were police in the parking lot — a detail unknown to the narcotics team at the time.

The plan was to surround the vehicle to keep the suspect from leaving and keep the situation contained to one area, an officer said during a post-incident interview. But Spangler and the woman walked out of the restaurant, past the parked PT cruiser, toward the Goodwill store with food in hand.

Officers approached Spangler in the lobby of the thrift store and ordered him to show his hands, but he ran into the store.

Buchholz told investigators he chased Spangler and yelled at him to "stop" and "get on the ground." He said he grabbed Spangler by his hoodie and yanked him to the ground.

Previous coverage:West Salem Goodwill customers dashed into bookstore after Wednesday's fatal shooting

During the struggle, Buchholz said, Spangler drew a gun from the right side of his body.

"I was trying as hard as I could to pin (his arm) down, um, saying, 'Drop the gun,' and the gun just kept coming up and it was just I could see it moving up towards me," Buchholz told investigators.

Buchholz also said he heard the suspect say he didn't have a gun.

"I believed he was gonna kill me and I fired one shot and it was – it was done, um, he, um, at that time there was no more threat," he told investigators.

There were about 30 people in the store at the time of the shooting, officials said. Several customers fled through the back and took refuge in a nearby bookstore.

An autopsy conducted by the Oregon State Medical Examiner's office on Sept. 19 found an entry wound from a bullet on Spangler's left cheek area. The bullet was recovered from his skull cavity.

Investigators found an additional loaded magazine for his Jennings Bryco 38 pistol in his pocket and $395 in cash. They also recovered a "sizeable quantity" of heroin on his person and drug paraphernalia in the PT Cruiser.

Investigators led by the Salem Police Department conducted interviews with close to 30 witnesses — including shoppers and employees. They also spoke with Spangler's companions at the time of the shooting, his next of kin and officers who collected evidence from the scene.

The video surveillance in the Goodwill store was found "inoperable" during the time of the incident as the business was the process of changing surveillance video systems, reports said. Police canvased other local businesses to get footage.

Buchholz and Spangler were not strangers to each other.

Spangler shot himself in the chest in 2015; he was interviewed in the hospital and then arrested a month later by Buchholz for being a felon in possession of a firearm, as previously reported by the Statesman Journal.

Spangler also pleaded guilty to possession of methamphetamine in 2016. He also was convicted in the late 1990s of third-degree robbery, a class C felony.

Virginia Barreda is the breaking news reporter with the Statesman Journal. She can be reached at 503-399-6657 or at vbarreda@statesmanjournal.com. Follow her on Twitter at @vbarreda2.