The Georgia Bureau of Investigation Region One office has released the following statement regarding the officer involved shooting of 28 year-old Jeffery Tyler Aycock.

Preliminary information indicates that at approximately 2:00 pm, the Floyd County/Rome PD SWAT Team was located in the area of 461 Chulio Road, Rome, GA to arrest Jeffery Tyler Aycock, 28, a gang fugitive wanted for probation violation and aggravated assault of a police officer. Floyd County Police officers had previously attempted to arrest Aycock on Wednesday, September 18, at which time Aycock fired a gun numerous times at the officers who were trying to affect Aycock’s arrest. Aycock escaped arrest and fled the area.

On Sunday, September 22, 2019, as SWAT members arrived in the area of 461 Chulio Road, they began to clear the wooded area and an abandoned house on the property. SWAT members made contact with Aycock in the abandoned house. Aycock retrieved a gun from behind his back, at which time an officer gave him verbal commands to drop the weapon. When Aycock refused to comply with commands, an officer fired at Aycock, striking him. Medical assistance was called to the scene; however, Aycock was deceased.

An autopsy of Aycock will be performed by the GBI Medical Examiner’s Office in Decatur, GA on Wednesday, September 25, 2019.

No officers were injured during the incident.

The GBI will continue its independent investigation. Once complete, it will be turned over to the Floyd County District Attorney’s Office for review.

PREVIOUS

A Rome man who had been wanted since last week is now dead after a second shootout with police. Jefferey Tyler Aycock, 28 of Rome, was shot and killed by police officers at an abandoned home at 461 Chulio Road.

Reports said that SWAT had been notified of Aycock’s whereabouts and went to the abandoned home just after 2 pm.

Aycock was struck numerous times during the shootout.

Floyd County Coroner Gene Proctor said that Aycock’s body will be sent to the GBI crime lab for an autopsy.

Two others at the scene, Victoria Jade Shafer, 24 of Rome, and Guy Anthony Haney, 41, both of Rome, were also arrested because they allegedly were hiding Aycock out.

Both are charged with felony hindering the apprehension of a wanted man.

PREVIOUS: Sept 18 2019

County Police are searching for a man who shot at officers Tuesday night while they were serving a warrant on Sam Harris Road.

Jefferey Tyler Aycock should be considered armed and dangerous. If you have a tip: All information is confidential; Crime Line is 706-236-5000.