BENTONVILLE -- A Benton County sheriff's deputy has been cleared of any wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of a Lowell man.

Charles "Chase" Nation, 31, was killed Sept. 23 inside his home at 304 N. Bloomington St., No. 9.

Benton County prosecutor Nathan Smith released a letter to Sheriff Shawn Holloway last week clearing Deputy James Chamberlain of any criminal conduct in the shooting. Smith found the shooting was justified under Arkansas law.

The Arkansas State Police investigated the shooting and turned over the case file to Smith for review.

Lowell police officers were called Sept. 22 concerning Nation's attempts to fight his neighbor, according to Smith's letter. Nation also contacted Lowell authorities at various times, and police, along with probation and parole officers, prepared warrants for his arrest, according to the letter.

When police attempted to serve the warrant Sept. 23, Nation eluded them and locked himself inside his home, according to the letter. Officers attempted to contact Nation but were not successful, the letter said. The SWAT team for the Benton County sheriff's office was called for assistance.

The letter said negotiators attempted to establish contact with Nation. An air-conditioning unit was removed from a bedroom window, and Lt. Greg Stevenson with the sheriff's office attempted to contact Nation through the window, according to Smith's letter.

Stevenson was able to see Nation on the floor between the bedroom and living room. Stevenson said Nation held a knife and a broad-tipped arrow, according to the letter.

The SWAT team broke in the front door and found Nation sitting on the floor in the hallway brandishing a knife and holding the arrow while making stabbing motions, according to the letter.

Deputies told Nation to put the weapons down. Nation repeatedly said he did not have a gun, but he moved toward the deputies and continued to make the stabbing motions, according to Smith's letter.

Maj. Kenneth Paul with the sheriff's office and other deputies told Nation to drop the weapons and stop moving, but he did not comply, the letter states. Paul instructed a deputy to obtain a stun gun from a vehicle, according to the letter.

Nation continued to approach deputies, and they began to back out of the house and became "bottle necked" at the entrance, the letter said. The deputy returned with the stun gun, but Nation attempted to get to his feet and swung the knife toward Chamberlain, the letter states.

Chamberlain was heard by other deputies telling Nation to "put the weapon down," and Chamberlain said he feared for his life as well as the lives of other members of the SWAT team, according to the letter.

Chamberlain fired three rounds with his service weapon, killing Nation, according to the letter.

Smith determined that Chamberlain's action was justified since he had a reasonable belief that Nation may use deadly force against him or one of the other deputies, according to the letter.

Sgt. Shannon Jenkins, the spokeswoman for the Benton County sheriff's office, said Chamberlain has returned to duty.

"First and foremost it's our duty to preserve life, and we are saddened by the loss of life along with his friends and family," she said.

Metro on 11/07/2019