Two muggers looking to rob a man and his girlfriend on the South Side early Saturday found themselves attacking an off-duty Chicago police sergeant who drew his gun and killed one of the men, police said.

Chicago Police Sgt. Chris Fletcher, who suffered a gunshot wound to his right hip, shot and killed Sammie Robinson, 43, just after midnight, police said.

Advertisement

The shooting was the first of two involving Chicago police Saturday. In an unrelated incident on the West Side near Franklin Park, a special-operations officer shot a man in the chest after he pointed a revolver at the officer and his partner, said police spokesman Patrick Camden.

Fletcher and his girlfriend were getting into their car near Stony Island Avenue and 90th Street when Fletcher saw the two men approaching them, Camden said.

Advertisement

One of the men put a gun to Fletcher's back and told him he was being robbed, police said.

The other man then said, "Let's get the girl," and both turned away from Fletcher for a moment, Camden said.

Fletcher drew his gun and a firefight ensued. Robinson of the 5600 block of South Shields Avenue was killed. A Cook County medical examiner's spokesman said an autopsy showed Robinson died of a gunshot wound to the neck.

Robinson was convicted in 1995 of armed robbery and sentenced to 15 years in prison, said Jerry Lawrence, a spokesman for the Cook County state's attorney's office. He is the seventh person reported killed by Chicago police this year.

Fletcher was struck once in the right hip and was in good condition at Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn.

Camden said the other robber fled and was being sought by police Saturday. Police recovered two pistols at the scene.

In the West Side shooting, the two officers were in a marked patrol car when they saw two men standing in an alley off Keeler Avenue about 10:10 a.m. When they approached, one of the men came forward, telling them he had just been robbed by the other man.

The officers chased the second man, who ran into a vacant lot in the 1400 block of South Keeler and raised a .38-caliber pistol, Camden said.

Advertisement

Seeing the gun, one of the officers fired three shots, striking the man once in the chest. It was not immediately clear whether the man fired his gun, Camden said.

The man, 26, was seriously wounded, police said. He was taken to Mt. Sinai Hospital.

Neither officer was hurt. Police said they recovered money and crack cocaine that they think was stolen from the first man.