An Allentown man who sped away from police during a traffic stop, causing a crash in Salisbury Township that killed a 27-year-old father of two, was sentenced Monday to six to 17 years in state prison.

Corey R. Sickler wept as he apologized to his victim’s mother in Lehigh County Court in Allentown.

“I changed the lives of so many people,” Sickler said. “I think about it every day.”

Lehigh County Judge Maria L. Dantos told Sickler, who was on parole for a prior drunken driving conviction when the crash occurred, and then was arrested for a third DUI while awaiting trial, that he earned the lengthy sentence.

“When you decide to drink and drive, this is what happens,” Dantos said. “What you’re driving becomes a deadly weapon.”

Sickler, 27, of Linden Street pleaded guilty in April to homicide by vehicle while driving under the influence and drunken driving in connection with the Jan. 31, 2018, crash that killed Terrance Ramnarine of Catasauqua.

The crash occurred just before 2 a.m. in the 800 block of West Susquehanna Street. An officer on patrol saw a gray sedan going west on Emmaus Avenue committing several traffic violations, so he activated his lights and sirens to pull the vehicle over.

When the car stopped on Emmaus Avenue near Potomac Street, the officer knocked on the passenger window. The driver, later identified as Sickler, fled at a high speed.

A short police chase ensued, ending when Sickler’s car struck a concrete retaining wall along the shoulder of Susquehanna Street. When police arrived, they found Sickler lying in the road about 25 feet from the driver’s side of the car. Ramnarine was dead in the passenger seat.

An autopsy later showed that Ramnarine died of blunt force trauma to the neck and torso.

Investigators found that Sickler’s driver’s license had been suspended since December 2016. He was released on bail, but arrested for another drunken driving incident in February.

In court Monday, Ramnarine’s mother, Malini Ramnarine asked Sickler to look at her as she read a statement about her son’s loss.

“There’s his blood on your hands. You can never wipe that clean,” she said.

As part of the sentence, Sickler must pay a $3,000 fine and will lose his driver’s license.

Chief Deputy District Attorney V. Paul Bernardino told Sickler that Ramnarine didn’t have to die.

“This incident could have ended at the traffic stop. But he fled from police. And he killed his friend,” Bernardino said.