A seven-person jury ruled Tuesday on coroner’s inquests involving two separate in-custody deaths in Cascade County last year.

The jury unanimously found that there were no criminal means in the deaths of Andrew Hank Anderson, 47, and Tracey Jade Johnston, 46.

Petroleum County Coroner Richard Brown conducted the hearing, and the Cascade County Attorney’s Office examined the witnesses.

Deputies with the Cascade County Sheriff’s Office responded the afternoon of Aug. 24, 2018, to a report of a woman being harassed by former boyfriend Andy Anderson. The complainant said Anderson had been calling her phone, sending her flowers and coming to her home on Cove Lane in the Bootlegger Trail area north of Great Falls.

When Deputies Steve Fox and Kasey Whitsitt arrived, Anderson was no longer at the residence, but they met with neighbor Leo Curtis, who said Anderson had been to his house and accused him of sleeping with the female complainant.

They advised the woman to go get an order of protection and trespass Anderson from her property.

More:Inquest: No wrongdoing by officers in fatal Highwoods shooting

Deputies left to try to locate Anderson along East Country Lane to let him know he was being trespassed from his ex-girlfriend’s and her neighbor’s property.

Curtis then flagged them down and advised them Anderson’s truck was at 6 Country Lane.

When deputies arrived, Whitsitt testified she observed Anderson pointing a pistol at them before jumping into his truck and then disappearing from view.

On a dashcam video of the incident, Curtis can be heard yelling at officers that Anderson had shot himself.

Curtis testified that he saw Anderson place the .22 caliber handgun against the side of his head before hearing a gunshot.

Anderson was transported from the scene to Benefis Health System, where he was declared deceased the following day.

Agent Bruce McDermott with the Montana Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation told jurors that Anderson had been making suicidal statements for days and had contacted an acquaintance less than an hour before the shooting to have him sign a handwritten paper titled “Andy Anderson Will.”

McDermott also said the case was a cut-and-dry as an in-custody death can be.

“In this particular situation, you have that proverbial fly on the wall,” he said, referring to an unbroken chain of events recorded on dashcam and body cam video. “It’s as good as it gets as far as demonstrating there was nobody in proximity of the decedent…that’s about as good as it gets in the investigative world.”

In the day’s second inquest, decedent Tracey Jade Johnston was killed in a motor vehicle crash while fleeing a police pursuit that began in Vaughn and stretched from Cascade County into Lewis and Clark County.

CCSO Deputy Casey Gervais testified he responded to a vandalism call on a building near Vaughn school in the early morning hours of Dec. 12, 2018.

When the building’s owner arrived, she reported that a cream or silver four-door car had just nearly run her off the road near the scene.

When Gervais attempted to initiate a traffic stop on the vehicle, he said the driver rammed into his patrol car and fled at a high rate of speed.

The pursuit proceeded westbound on Montana Highway 200 at speeds well over 100 mph. Gervais testified that Johnston threw an alcoholic beverage at the windshield of his patrol car and was swerving across all lanes of traffic, nearly hitting several other vehicles that were yielding to the patrol car.

After 35-40 miles at those speeds through the towns of Sun River, Fort Shaw and Simms, Gervais was just miles short of terminating pursuit when he came upon a crash site.

Johnston, who had been ejected from his vehicle, lay in the eastbound lane, and his car was on fire in the ditch.

Gervais, along with other officers who arrived after the crash, performed CPR on Johnston for at least 30 minutes waiting for medical personnel. He was pronounced dead at the scene after ambulances arrived.

According to the coroner's report, Johnston had methamphetamine in his system, and his blood alcohol content was nearly twice the legal limit.

Criminal justice reporter Traci Rosenbaum reports on law enforcement issues for the Tribune. Have ideas or questions for Traci on her beat? Reach her at trosenbaum@greatfallstribune.com or 406-791-1490. Follow her on Twitter @GFTrib_TRosenba.

Support Traci's journalism:Subscribe today and get a special offer

Have a news tip for us? Click here.