Hunt Valley Towne Center stabbing suspect identified as northeast Baltimore man







UPDATE: Police have released the 9-1-1 calls and identified the officers involved in this incident.

Original story below…

——

NOTTINGHAM, MD—Police have identified the man who was killed by police after stabbing five people in Hunt Valley on Saturday.

The deceased suspect has been identified as Jamaal Ramone Taylor, 31, of the 6000-block of Amberwood Road (21206).

Officers initially responded to a disturbance at Hunt Valley Wine, Liquor, and Beer at Hunt Valley Towne Center at around 1:45 p.m. on Saturday.

The 911 caller indicated that the suspect, now identified as Taylor, was threatening people with a box cutter, which police later determined to be a folding-style knife.

As police were heading to the scene, additional calls came in indicating that three victims were injured during an altercation with Taylor inside the liquor store before he then fled on foot. Two additional stabbing incidents occurred at neighboring businesses.

Taylor fled the shopping center and headed toward Shawan Road. Arriving officers encountered Taylor, brandishing a knife at the intersection of Shawan Road and McCormick Road. Officers gave repeated commands to Taylor to drop the knife but he refused to comply and they fired at him. Taylor was pronounced dead at the scene.

All five victims suffered non-life-threatening wounds and were taken to area hospitals for treatment.

Hunt Valley Towne Centre security officers were on site during the incident and initially responded to the liquor store before police were called. Security escorted Taylor off of the property but he later returned, at which time security called Baltimore County police for assistance.

The Baltimore County Police Department is also investigating a separate incident with Maryland Transit Administration Police earlier on Saturday involving Taylor.

The officers involved in the shooting will be placed on routine administrative leave pending the conclusion of an internal investigation.





