Neighbors said yesterday that the 22-year-old Honduran immigrant shot and killed by a Baltimore County police officer early Sunday in Essex did not speak any English and could not have understood that officers wanted him to drop a knife he was holding.

But Baltimore County police said that two witnesses told them that the man, identified as Franciso Antonio Perez, spoke enough English to understand their commands.

Advertisement

"Language was not an issue," said Bill Toohey, a police spokesman. "When three officers are shouting at you with their guns drawn, it'd be prudent to drop the weapon."

Friends and neighbors said Perez had the knife because he wanted to help protect friends who had been robbed.

Advertisement

"He was scared. He couldn't tell police, 'My friends were just robbed,'" said Jade Brode, a friend of Perez's who lives in the 300 block of Shagbark Road, where Perez was shot about 3 a.m. Sunday.

In the neighborhood of two-bedroom townhouses known as Wampler Village near Martin Plaza, Perez's death has prompted widespread concerns about the way police handled the incident - from whether deadly force was justified to whether officers acted appropriately in the aftermath.

They also were asking why an officer didn't call for a translator, even if it was a bystander, before shooting the young man.

Perez came into contact with police about 2:50 a.m. Sunday when officers were dispatched to investigate an armed street robbery of two men later identified as Perez's friends.

An officer saw Perez in the crowd of young men on Squanto Court and told him to drop a knife he was holding, Toohey said.

Instead, Toohey said, Perez ran down the court onto Shagbark Road where two other officers converged on him in front of a townhouse.

With their guns drawn, Toohey said, the three officers commanded Perez to drop the knife and an 18-inch screwdriver that was initially described as a barbecue skewer.

Police said Perez did not drop the weapons and stepped toward Officer Mark A. Noppenberger, a nine-year veteran of the county police force. Toohey said Noppenberger, 32, fired two shots - both into Perez's chest.

Advertisement

Necessity questioned

Neighbors have been questioning the shooting.

"It wasn't necessary to kill that boy," said Susan Basham, 55, a retired store clerk who lives down the street from Perez. "Why didn't they shoot him in the leg?"

Brode said that, based on her knowledge of Perez, she suspects he was trying to hand his weapon to the officers when he was shot. She said he would have understood the officers' command if one had pointed to the knife and then pointed to the ground.

"He would not have hurt them," she said. "There was no need to shoot that poor man in his chest."

Toohey said officers are trained to shoot to "neutralize" suspects when they perceive lives are in danger. "If you shoot someone in the ankle or arm, you may not stop them at all," Toohey said.

Advertisement

In this particular case, he said, "It was a matter of seconds before he could have stabbed a cop."

Officers are taught to keep both hands on their weapons. In place of gestures, Toohey said, "You use your presence, your voice and your body language."

Noppenberger remained on administrative leave yesterday while homicide detectives investigated the shooting, which is routine in any police-involved shooting, Toohey said. Internal affairs investigators will later determine whether all departmental policies were followed, he said.

Upset residents

Another neighbor was upset because it didn't appear to him that authorities tried to revive Perez. But according to the notes of paramedics, Perez had no pulse, was not breathing and his pupils were dilated within minutes of the shooting. He was pronounced dead at 3:07 a.m. and no further care was administered, said Elise Armacost, a Fire Department spokeswoman.

Perez, who worked for a local construction company and rented a room with several other workers, laid on the ground uncovered until about 9 a.m., which also upset many of the neighbors, especially those with children.

Advertisement

Toohey said it is Police Department policy to leave the bodies uncovered so that a cloth doesn't ruin evidence.

Yesterday, a small blood stain remained on the sidewalk where Perez died. Little besides a bare twin mattress and box spring remained in his bedroom. Next to a pile of Perez's clothes were two unused Western Union order forms, each filled out to wire $100 to his family in Honduras.

Neighbors and friends were collecting money to send his body to his family.

Friends speculated that Perez had run from police because he feared being identified as an illegal immigrant.

"He didn't want to get sent back," said Brode, 20, a student at the Community College of Baltimore County in Essex. She said she was able to communicate with Perez by speaking some Spanish and using hand motions.

Some police departments, including Annapolis', routinely distribute brochures in Hispanic communities about how to deal with American police and provide officers with translation materials to carry with them.

Advertisement

Baltimore County officers are offered an elective course in rudimentary Spanish, Toohey said.

Easy targets

Neighbors said Latino residents in the housing complex had been robbery victims frequently in the recent months. They were ideal targets, they said, because they carry their money in cash and do not generally report crimes to police.

Toohey said a 55-year-old Hispanic man was robbed last week in the neighborhood, but was not able to identify his attacker.

Police arrested two teen-agers in the robbery Sunday morning that preceded Perez's death.