Brian Lee,Kim Ring

Brian.Lee@telegram.com

AUBURN - The owner of an Auburn towing company was killed in a crash on Route 20 Thursday afternoon.

Michael Robidoux, 54, was identified as the victim by his brother, Tim Robidoux, who visited the crash scene Thursday night. One person who fled on foot and was apprehended by a state police dog unit and Auburn officers was in custody at an area hospital and is expected to be charged in connection with the crash, police said.

The crash, which involved three vehicles, occurred about 1:45 p.m. near 475 Washington St. Police had been chasing one of the drivers, in a Ford Explorer, but had stopped the chase in Sutton, police said.

Worcester District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr.'s office released a statement indicating the driver of the Explorer was wanted on warrants.

Authorities Friday morning identified the man as DeJesus Amaro. He faces multiple charges, including motor vehicle homicide by negligent operation.

Police Chief Andrew J. Sluckis said late Thursday the man was hospitalized and uncooperative. He said the man in custody was not the owner of the Explorer, which was reported stolen sometime after the crash.

According to the district attorney's office, the driver of the Ford Explorer crossed the double yellow line on Washington Street and struck a Toyota Tacoma and Jeep Grand Cherokee in the opposite lane.

Mr. Robidoux was a passenger in the Jeep and was taken by ambulance to UMass Memorial Medical Center - University Campus in Worcester, where he was pronounced dead, his brother said. He was in a vehicle that he and the driver were picking up, his brother said.

Tim Robidoux said his brother was a good man who helped others and was a friend to Mr. Early, Worcester Police Chief Steven Sargent and many politicians. His Facebook page is filled with images of himself with Governor Charlie Baker, Sheriff Lewis Evangelidis and others. Most knew him from his business, Central Mass. Towing, located on Mill Street a short distance from the crash location, his brother said.

"I just came down here to see where he passed away, and I stopped at his shop because I wanted to see his dog," Tim Robidoux said. "I wish I was more like him, helping people out. He had the heart for it."

He said his brother leaves a wife and four children and had just attended the baptism of a new grandchild over the weekend.

Steve Putis, who owns T&S Landscaping, stopped at the crash site with his daughter. Mr. Robidoux used to pay her to help clean out the trucks, her father said after they set a bouquet of flowers against the dented guardrail. He said he will continue doing landscaping at the towing company and will help with towing, both for free, to help the family keep the business going.

"He was a one of the best guys ... if you needed something, he was right there," Mr. Putis said.

The Central Massachusetts Law Enforcement Council's accident reconstruction team and state police in a helicopter also responded to the crash.

Steven H. Foskett of the Telegram & Gazette staff contributed to this report.