A Knoxville man is out on bond after a brief police chase over the weekend ended with an officer finding the upper half of a severed human torso on the floor of his car, according to court records.

Police suspect the torso belongs to a pedestrian who was killed around 3:30 a.m. Sunday when Dorrae Debrice Johnson, 29, veered onto the sidewalk along Sutherland Avenue as he sped away from a Tennessee Highway Patrol trooper.

Officers arrested Johnson after he crashed into a utility pole. He faces charges including vehicular homicide, felony evading arrest and driving on a revoked license.

Johnson was released on bond shortly before 4 p.m. Tuesday, records show. His bond had been set at $76,000.

UPDATE:Prosecutors seek to revoke bond of driver charged in gruesome crash

Police found the rest of the pedestrian's body at the crash site, arrest warrants state. Investigators used the victim's wallet to identify him as 65-year-old Darryl Eugene Butler.

Butler had previously been homeless but was recently placed in public housing, according to Volunteer Ministry Center. He listed an address at Cagle Terrace Apartments, a low-income housing development for elderly people and people with disabilities that sits about a mile away from where the crash occurred.

"Daryl achieved housing 2-3 weeks ago and had persevered for over a year to achieve his housing goal and to leave the streets behind him," VMC wrote in a Facebook post. "Even though life had not always been easy, Daryl was a bigger than life personality and will be remembered for his smile, contagious positive attitude and always having a story to share with others."

How the chase began

The crash occurred during a chase that began when a Tennessee Highway Patrol trooper stopped Johnson for failing to stay in his lane on Interstate 40 West near the Henley Street exit, according to arrest warrants.

As the trooper approached, Johnson yelled out the window that he had to get to his family's home and sped away, the warrants state.

Johnson, driving a 2006 Chevrolet Impala, took the 17th Street exit, then proceeded onto Western Avenue before turning onto Middlebrook Pike. He ended up driving the wrong way on Sutherland Avenue, where he struck a curb and blew out a tire.

Police believe Johnson veered onto the sidewalk and fatally struck Butler near Harry Street, according to a THP report.

"The driver continued on until he lost control of the vehicle and hit a utility pole," the report reads. "The driver then fled on foot from the vehicle. The trooper was able to catch up to the suspect and took him into custody."

'Blitzed'

An officer who suspected Johnson of being under the influence asked him what he had been drinking and how much he had to drink.

Johnson responded, "1800 and could not give an amount," police wrote in arrest warrants, adding that Johnson later admitted he was "blitzed."

As an officer attempted to turn off the ignition of Johnson's car, a severed torso, missing its lower half, was discovered lying on the passenger-side floorboard, according to the warrants. The rest of Butler's remains were located at the crash site, the warrants state.

It was not entirely clear from police records how the torso ended up in Johnson's car, but the arrest warrants refer to "the intrusion of the suspect's vehicle." THP spokesman Lt. Don Boshears declined to clarify Monday, saying the investigation is ongoing and that no other information is available.

Johnson previously was convicted in November 2017 of driving under the influence, Knox County court records show. Johnson received a suspended sentence of 11 months and 29 days, and he spent 48 hours in jail.

More recently, Johnson was charged with DUI in January. He failed sobriety tests after he almost struck a guardrail on Interstate 275, records show. That case has not been resolved.

'Singing with the angels'

Kim Cantrell runs Knoxville Pays It Forward, a nonprofit she said aims to help "those who find themselves in a bind through no fault of their own." She met Butler, the victim, under the North Broadway overpass, where homeless people often gather on the sidewalks.

"We became big buddies down there," Cantrell said. "He had a vivacious personality. Very approachable. Very likable. He believed in God. He went to church with my friends, and they said when he sung, it was like he was singing with the angels."

Cantrell said Butler dressed well and was liked by everyone around him.

"As soon as you would see him," she said, "it would bring a smile to your face because you were just tickled that he was around."

Cantrell was overjoyed when she heard Butler had been placed in public housing.

"I was so excited for him," she said. "I was like, 'Oh my gosh. Things are going good for him again.' "

Reach Travis Dorman at 865-342-6315 or at travis.dorman@knoxnews.com. Follow him on Twitter @travdorman.