RIVERSIDE, Ohio (WDTN) – A man is dead after a 13-hour standoff in Riverside ended early Wednesday morning.

Montgomery County Coroner Kent Harshbarger confirmed that 40-year-old John Reese died in the incident. While the standoff did not end until 5 am Wednesday, the Coroner’s Office believes Reese died Tuesday.

Riverside Police believe it to be from a self inflicted gunshot wound, as Major Matthew Sturgeon said the SWAT team onsite never fired their weapons.

Police say the incident started Monday night, when a woman was injured during a domestic dispute. According to police, the woman is in her 70s and was Reese’s mother. Police said she was with them at the time of the standoff and is expected to be okay.

Once police learned of the incident, they went to a house in the 900 block of Gleneagle Drive, near Candlelight Lane.

Police say they were familiar with the address, because of a man who had posted aggressive and violent content to the internet in the past.

Over 20 guns recovered after 13-hour standoff in Riverside (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

Over 20 guns recovered after 13-hour standoff in Riverside (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

Over 20 guns recovered after 13-hour standoff in Riverside (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

Riverside Standoff (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

Over 20 guns recovered after 13-hour standoff in Riverside (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

Over 20 guns recovered after 13-hour standoff in Riverside (WDTN Photo/Kelley King)

The police obtained an arrest warrant for the man, who Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office confirmed was Reese, and a search warrant for the home.

Police arrived at the home, along with FBI and other agencies, around 2 p.m. Tuesday. The man barricaded himself inside the home around 3:30 p.m., leading to a standoff.

Riverside Police called Montgomery County SWAT to the scene. SWAT used verbal announcements for several hours to try and get the man to come out.

SWAT eventually used pepper balls and tear gas to force the man to surrender. Police say the standoff ended just before 5 a.m. Wednesday, more than 13 hours after the standoff began.

Police say the FBI had spoken with the man in the past about some of the posts he made online. The FBI was reportedly monitoring the man as well.

According to police, the man had “at least 20” guns inside the home, many of which were assault rifles. He also had high-capacity magazines, night-vision goggles, and body armor.

Crime tape surrounds the home on Gleneagle Dr. in Riverside where a 13 hour standoff took place. Police say they’ve recovered dozens of weapons, ammunition, night vision goggles and body armor from the home @WDTN pic.twitter.com/jHh53SHcV4 — Kelley King (@WDTNKelleyKing) October 2, 2019

No law enforcement officials were injured during the standoff.

According to police, ATF and FBI are involved in the investigation to make sure all weapons and accessories were purchases legally, and FBI are going through his computers recovered at the scene.