Jozsef Papp

jpapp@augustachronicle.com

The Fourth of July travel period saw 36 people die on Georgia and South Carolina roads, with four fatalities in Richmond, Columbia and Aiken counties.

According to the Georgia Department of Public Safety, there were 26 traffic deaths in the state between 6 p.m. Wednesday July 3 and midnight Sunday. There was one fatality each in Richmond and Columbia counties.

Timothy Stock, 49, of the 3800 block of Hollow Keg Drive, was pronounced dead at the scene of a crash on Deans Bridge Road on July 4. He was driving a Ford pickup south on Deans Bridge Broad near Etterlee Road when he crossed the median and northbound lanes before leaving the roadway and crashing into several trees and overturning, according to the Richmond County Coroner's Office.

Cortney Weatherspoon, 26, of Evans, died Saturday after a road rage incident in Columbia County. He was riding his motorcycle on William Few Parkway when he began shooting at another vehicle, resulting in a police chase. Weatherspoon lost control of his motorcycle and hit a tree, according to the sheriff's office.

Seven people, including a 3-year-old, died in a chain-reaction crash on I-85 in Franklin County Saturday. According to the Associated Press, an SUV crossed the median into traffic headed the other way.

Georgia State Troopers investigated 513 traffic crashes that resulted in 307 injuries. During the travel period, 422 were arrested for driving under the influence and 12,554 citations and 16,846 warnings were issued statewide, according to the public safety department.

There were 10 traffic fatalities in South Carolina during the 102-hour travel period, according to preliminary numbers from the South Carolina Department of Public Safety. There were two fatalities in Aiken County.

Terrence Rainey, 30, died after striking a tree while riding an ATV on Red Oak Drive on July 4. Veronique Henry, 22, died after she lost control of her vehicle and left the road, overturned and struck a tree, according to the Aiken County Coroner's Office.

Last year, the Fourth of July holiday period was only 30 hours long from July 3 to July 4. In Georgia, there were five fatalities. There were no fatalities in South Carolina or locally.

Sgt. Mark Chestang with the Richmond County Sheriff's Office traffic division said the holiday travel period was fairly quiet around Augusta. He said the multiple locations across the area to watch fireworks spread out traffic and likely helped limit accidents .

"Traffic wasn't bad," he said. "We had some DUIs, but nothing out of the ordinary."

Chestang said longer holiday travel periods, especially if they fall during a weekend, sometimes affect traffic, but it was light in Augusta. The "100 Deadly Days of Summer" are currently underway and run until Labor Day but Chestang said traffic hasn't been that bad since Memorial Day because many people are on vacation and school is out.

"The traffic has probably dropped a little bit, just normal driving," he said. "We haven't seen a real big increase in accidents or anything."

Total Fatalities Reported in Georgia during Fourth of July Day Holiday Period 2019 - 26 fatalities (102-hour travel period) 2018 - 5 fatalities (30-hour travel period) 2017 - 17 fatalities (102-hour travel period) 2016 - 9 fatalities (78-hour travel period) Source: Georgia Department of Public Safety Total Fatalities Reported in South Carolina during Fourth of July Holiday Period 2019 - 10* fatalities (102-hour travel period) 2018 - 0 fatalities (30-hour travel period) 2017 - 9 fatalities (102-hour travel period) 2016 - 11 fatalities (78-hour travel period) Source: South Carolina Department of Public Safety *Indicates preliminary numbers

Fourth of July travel period fatalities