NEWARK — A woman killed Friday when the suspected stolen vehicle she was driving that she had used to ram two Fremont police vehicles to escape from a parking stall was identified Monday as Melissa Diamond, 39, of Fremont, authorities said.

Authorities confirmed that in November 2001, Diamond was the driver of a stolen van that was being chased by Alameda County sheriff’s deputies when it crashed into a car in Hayward. The crash killed a woman on her 19th birthday.

Diamond was subsequently convicted of manslaughter in that case and served time in prison. Records available late Monday didn’t specify how long she was incarcerated.

Around 11:15 a.m. Friday, Fremont police said, two detectives came across an unoccupied Toyota Camry parked in a stall at Regency Square Apartments, 4917 Central Avenue. A search showed that the car had been reported stolen out of San Jose and had a license plate reported stolen out of Fremont.

The detectives waited to see who would try to get into the car. When Diamond walked up to the vehicle and got in, officers tried to block the car in with an unmarked vehicle and tried to contact her.

But she used the Toyota to ram that police vehicle and another one, completely totaling one of them, before creating enough space so she could drive away, authorities said.

After driving through a metal gate, Diamond fled westbound along Central Avenue at high speed, and crossed the Interstate 880 overpass. Moments later, the Toyota struck two vehicles at Central’s Cedar Boulevard intersection in Newark. Fremont police said a detective tried to pursue and pull up to the Toyota, but did not see the collision. Diamond suffered major injuries in the collision and was pronounced dead at the scene.

.

A person in the other vehicle suffered major injuries and was taken to a hospital. There was no report on their condition Monday.

According to prior media accounts, around 6 a.m. on Nov. 27, 2001, Diamond, then 22 and living in Hayward, was spotted by sheriff’s deputies driving a stolen while Chevrolet Astro van near East 14th Street and 150th Avenue in the San Leandro area.

The van had been stolen from a donut store parking lot less than an hour earlier in the 430 block of Winton Avenue in Hayward.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | East Bay woman gets 12 years in crash death Deputies were chasing Diamond on A Street when the van crossed the center divide into the eastbound lanes and struck a Geo Prizm sedan driven by Karen Gordin, of San Lorenzo.

Gordin, a Cal State Hayward sophomore, had turned 19 that day and was on her way to work as a lifeguard and swim instructor at the Hayward Plunge, an article said.

Diamond, who suffered two broken ankles and other injuries, was initially charged with murder and auto theft in the case. In October 2003, a jury could not reach a verdict on the murder charge, but did convict Diamond of auto theft.

After negotiations with prosecutors, in May 2004 Diamond pleaded no contest to charges of voluntary manslaughter and evading a police officer. In July 2004, she was sentenced to 12 years and four months in prison, an article said.

Newark police are investigating Friday’s collision, while Fremont police are handling the assault as a deadly weapon incident involving the officers. Fremont police said no other details were available, citing an active investigation.