OAKLAND — A man who apparently drowned after fleeing an Alameda County sheriff’s deputy traffic stop Sunday, before barreling through a gate on Oakland airport property and jumping in the bay to escape, was 42-year-old Bryan Hirano of Aptos, according to authorities.

Alameda County sheriff’s Sgt. Ray Kelly said Hirano’s actual cause of death has not been officially determined, but it appears he drowned.

Hirano’s body was found Monday morning “several miles north of the airport” near the Oakland Estuary, Kelly said. The U.S. Coast Guard retrieved the body and took it to the San Francisco Medical Examiner’s Office but it was later transferred to the Alameda County coroner’s office.

Kelly said on Tuesday that investigators still don’t have an explanation for Hirano’s actions. The sheriff’s department is doing follow up interviews and the FBI has also been notified because the incident involved the airport.

Hirano led deputies on an approximately two-mile chase onto an Oakland International Airport runway before disappearing into San Francisco Bay.

Around 11:50 a.m. Sunday, a sheriff’s deputy patrolling near inbound lanes of Airport Drive saw a newer-model Chevrolet pickup run a stop sign, Kelly said.

When the officer tried to stop the Chevrolet, it refused to yield and fled before getting onto an access road mostly used by airport personnel, Kelly said.

Moments later, the truck rammed through the airport’s closed Gate A at more than 50 miles per hour, entering the several hundred acres of flat tarmac that make up the airport’s runways.

Deputies followed the truck west and north for two miles until it went off-road along the airport property’s western edge.

Kelly said deputies could “barely see because there was so much dirt in the air” kicked up by the driver, who was in a four-wheel drive truck, he said.

When deputies caught up to where the truck was stopped, they found the driver had jumped out and made his way to the shoreline.

A K-9 officer assisted with a scent search, which ended with a lost scent at the water’s edge, Kelly said.

“What starts out as a simple traffic violation turns into this wild chase,” he said.

Sheriff’s deputies called on a helicopter, drones and additional officers, with Oakland and Alameda police boats brought in to aid the search, but there was no sign of the driver as of 6 p.m. Sunday.

Kelly noted that the airport’s property is barren, flat and easy to search, though the waters nearby are “so large and dangerous” that the sheriff’s dive team was not used to help in the search.

Investigators searched the truck, which was registered to a Santa Cruz County address, and found several assault-style Airsoft weapons, masks and military clothing. Those items could call the driver’s motivation for fleeing the traffic stop into question, Kelly said.

“We’re not sure if he had a plan to do something more sinister,” he said.

“We were very fortunate he did not get onto a runway and interfere with landing aircraft. It could have been very dangerous. We don’t know much about this suspect or his motivation,” Kelly said.

“It was a traffic stop that took a whole bizarre set of turns. We’re trying to piece together what was going on with this guy,” he said Monday.

Investigators have reached out to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s San Francisco bureau for assistance with the incident, Kelly said.

Staff writers Erin Baldassari and Harry Harris contributed to this report. Contact George Kelly at 408-859-5180.