EVANSVILLE, Ind. (WFIE) - An investigation continues into a man’s death who died shortly after a “physical fight with EPD officers," police say.

The Vanderburgh County Coroner’s Office says the man has been identified as 55-year-old Edward Snukis.

According to the EPD news release, officers arrived at 4300 Division Street shortly before 8 p.m. Friday. They were called by employees for a report of an intoxicated man, who was in a restricted area of the business at that address.

EPD says Snukis was not cooperating with officers as they tried to place him in custody. The news release states he punched one of the officers in the nose before a second EPD officer used a stun gun.

According to EPD, the stun gun had little effect and Snukis began running from the officers. EPD says that is when Snukis tripped and fell, which allowed officers to catch him.

EPD Sgt. Jason Cullum tells us when he was finally stopped it was at 201 N. Congress Avenue.

Snukis continued to resist arrest, EPD says, but was finally able to be handcuffed.

After being turned on his side, the news release says officers noticed Snukis was unresponsive. EPD says he was still breathing and did have a pulse though.

14 News spoke with one witness who says it was all just shocking.

“The officers were telling him not to resist, and then he said okay. But, he had his arms under him and couldn’t get them out because the officers were on his back, and then all of a sudden it’s dead silence.”

Before the ambulance could make it, the man stopped breathing, EPD states. The officers performed CPR until medics arrived to take him to the hospital.

According to EPD, Snukis died not long after arriving at the hospital.

The news release says the officers will be placed on a three-day administrative leave, which is in line with EPD policy.

“The police investigation into the man’s death will coincide with an internal investigation,” the news release states.

“It shook me, shook me to my cor, and when they flipped him on his side I knew immediately that he had expired,” said the witness.

The Vanderburgh County Coroner’s office says their investigation is still ongoing and they are waiting for toxicology reports before they can say the cause of death.

We will update this story with more information when it is made available by EPD.

Copyright 2019 WFIE. All rights reserved.