Eliot Kleinberg

ekleinberg@pbpost.com

A 47-year-old Port St. Lucie man was the person killed early Saturday when a police officer from Broward County struck his motorcycle during a stolen-car chase that wound through three counties, the Florida Highway Patrol said Monday morning.

Robert Alfred Perone died at Cleveland Clinic Martin South Hospital near Stuart after a Lauderhill police cruiser struck him north of Jupiter and just south of the Palm Beach-Martin county line. A relative said Monday the family had no comment.

Two juvenile males, ages 15 and 16, from Sunrise in Broward County, later were arrested further north near Stuart. The Martin County Sheriff's Office said the two were charged with aggravated fleeing and eluding, resisting arrest and grand theft.

The Palm Beach Post is not naming the juveniles until authorities confirm they will try them as adults.

The chase had started when Boca Raton police alerted Lauderhill police that a car reported stolen had been tracked to that city west of Fort Lauderdale. Officers found the car, following a second vehicle that also been reported stolen, and when they tried to stop the second car, that sparked a chase that led back into Palm Beach County.

Lauderhill later peeled off the chase, but the officers kept driving, looking for an exit, when they spotted a vehicle on the right shoulder.

Some time during the chase, at mile marker 91 north of Jupiter, a Lauderhill police officer tried to pull to the side of I-95 to assist officers at an unrelated crash, and as it moved from the inside lane to the outside lane, Perone's 2004 Harley Davidson clipped the cruiser’s right rear fender and wheel, then overturned several times before coming to a stop on the grass shoulder, the Highway Patrol report said.

FHP did not name the 23-year-old Lauderhill officer. The agency said he was treated for minor injuries at Jupiter Medical Center.

Lauderhill police Major David Hennessy said Wednesday the officer was on paid administrative leave, which is standard in “critical incidents.” He said he was not authorized to provide the officer’s name, age, date or hire, assignment, or employment history.

According to a Martin County sheriff's report, at about 1:45 a.m., the Broward County Sheriff's Office sent its Martin County counterparts a "be on the lookout" order, saying officers from Broward were chasing a stolen black Mercedes-Benz four-door coupe and were asking for assistance.

Broward said the car had been stolen just before 1 a.m.

The car raced past the Hobe Sound exit and a deputy set up stop sticks 6 miles north at the High Meadows Road exit near Palm City. Moments later, the stop sticks damaged the car's right front tire, but it kept going.

Two Martin County patrol cars chased it for 4 miles until it pulled into a rest stop and the driver drove up onto a grassy area where people were sitting at a picnic table, according to the report.

The two teens ran off, but both soon were captured. Deputies and a Stuart police dog team found on the passenger side floorboard the gun that had been in the car when it was stolen.

EK@pbpost.com

@eliotkpbp