Melody Brown-Peyton

mbrownpeyton@fayobserver.com

Calls to 911 provided more details in the standoff involving 27-year-old Kadeem Brown, who barricaded himself inside his home Monday in an hours-long standoff with law enforcement. He was later found dead in the home by police.

Just before 10 a.m., police responded to the home on the 7100 block of Day Spring Drive after receiving calls of a man hitting his wife, according to 911 calls that were made.

The Fayetteville Observer obtained copies of the audiotapes of the separate conversations of the caller, a woman, had with 911 dispatchers.

During the first call, which lasted for 2 minutes and 36 seconds, a woman tells the 911 operator that a man is inside the home was hitting his wife and that he pulled a gun on her.

The caller tells the operator that she escaped by jumping out of a side window with her baby, and that she ran and hid behind a neighbor’s house to call 911. The caller says that the woman inside the home was yelling for her to call the police; the caller tells the operator that Brown took her cellphone.

The caller tells the operator that Brown thinks she is locked inside the bedroom.

“I’m scared if he knows I escaped that he will try and hurt me,” she says.

She says that Brown had his wife in the kids' bedroom and would not allow her to leave.

“I pray that you guys get here, I don’t want him to hurt her. He’s holding her hostage,” the caller says.

She tells the operator that she saw Brown hit his wife and that she asked him to leave. He tried to hit the caller herself, she says.

During the second 911 call, the woman tells the operator that Brown came outside looking for her. She said when he did not see her, he closed the garage and went back into the house.

Members of the Fayetteville Police Department’s Crisis Negotiation team tried to convince Brown to surrender peacefully.

Just before 4 p.m., members of the SWAT team were no longer able to make contact with him. They entered the home and found him unresponsive. Medical personnel on the scene pronounced him dead.

Brown died from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to a news release from police.

The woman who the 911 caller describes as Brown’s wife received minor injuries and was treated on the scene by medical personnel.

During the standoff, the street was blocked off for most of the day and drivers were urged to avoid the area. Two buses serving a nearby school were forced to drop off students at a different location.

Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to contact 911 or Fayetteville/ Cumberland County Crimestoppers at 910-483-8477.

Staff writer Melody Brown-Peyton can be reached at mbrownpeyton@fayobserver.com of 910-486-3568.