The cause of death was determined after autopsy was conducted Wednesday for Michael brown, 36, of Houma.

HOUMA, La. — A domestic-violence suspect found dead after crashing his car while fleeing police Sunday died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, authorities said today.

The cause of death was determined after autopsy was conducted Wednesday for Michael brown, 36, of Houma, Terrebonne Parish Sheriff Jerry Larpenter said today.

“Detectives executed a search warrant on Brown’s vehicle and recovered a handgun along with evidence that a handgun was fired from inside of this vehicle,” Larpenter said in a news release. “Brown was the only occupant of the overturned vehicle, and he was extracted from the vehicle while still on the scene of the crash.”

Houma man found dead after car crash had shot and killed himself, police say A domestic-violence suspect found dead after crashing his car while fleeing police Sunday died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, authorities said today.The cause of death was determined after autopsy was conducted Wednesday for Michael brown, 36, of Houma, Terrebonne Parish Sheriff Jerry Larpenter said today."Detectives executed a search warrant on Brown's vehicle and recovered a handgun along with evidence that a handgun was fired from inside of this vehicle," Larpenter

The incident began about 6:13 p.m. as a domestic-violence investigation at an apartment on Charlotte Street in Gray, The Sheriff’s Office had reported earlier. A woman told the responding deputy that her boyfriend, later identified as Brown, struck her and left while threatening to return with a gun.

As deputies patrolled the area in search of Brown’s car, they spotted his 2016 Chevrolet Malibu heading toward Hollywood Road on Martin Luther King Boulevard, the Sheriff’s Office said.

A deputy activated his emergency blue lights and tried to pull over the suspect, but Brown refused to stop and continued on Tunnel Boulevard, disregarding multiple traffic lights in the process, authorities said.

State Police and Houma Police were notified and assisted in the pursuit, the Sheriff’s Office said.

After passing through the Houma Tunnel, Brown’s car flipped after striking a curb and a utility pole, police said. Brown was removed from the car and was pronounced dead, and investigation ensued.

---

More Houma Headlines on WWLTV.com:

---