By: News 9

Two Oklahoma City police officers are on paid administrative leave following a fatal officer-involved shooting.

The deadly confrontation unfolded Wednesday at the Muntage Apartment Homes near May and I-44.

While police have not released the identity of the man, witnesses said he was heavily armed.

Prior to the police confrontation, witnesses said the man was armed with a machine gun.

One woman said she heard gunshots as the man took aim at his wife.

“Out of nowhere, I heard a couple of shots,” she said.

According to the apartment manager, the shooting stemmed from a domestic incident involving a husband and wife.

“The call was regarding a man with a gun,” said Oklahoma City Police Cpt. Larry Withrow.

The two were arguing, when the woman got in her van and her husband shot out her back window.

Witnesses tried to intervene, when the woman ordered them back inside their apartments, fearing her husband would harm them.

She was heard screaming, "Get back inside, my husband is crazy, he’s drunk."

Witnesses said they saw the man go back into his apartment and retrieve two rifles. They said he was getting into his car when he was confronted by police.

“They gave him orders to show them his hands, he produced a gun, pointing it at one of the officers,” said Withrow.

Jim Gardner in Bob Mills SkyNews 9 was above this scene moments after the man was shot.

One woman told officers she was on her back porch when she saw him with a machine gun. She hit the ground and military crawled back into her apartment.

“As a person who has lived in the somewhat hood, it sounded fairly loud, it sounded really close, it scared me. At first, I thought it was right outside my door,” said Elizabeth RedElk.

RedElk was watching TV when she said she was startled by the shots followed by screams.

“Apparently other people heard a cop screaming, but I just heard a woman basically giving a shrill scream at the top of her lungs,” said RedElk.

The man died shortly after he was transported to the hospital.