Dustin Fox Times Staff Writer

A Friday morning standoff with police in the Sand Valley community ended after nearly two hours when officers discovered a man dead inside a home after an apparent self-inflicted gunshot.

Etowah County Sheriff Jonathon Horton said deputies responded to a call from a residence on Kelly Lane at 9:15 a.m., reporting that a man was firing shots in the home. Deputies arrived at 9:22 and heard gunshots inside the home before they approached the scene.

The man, identified by the sheriff as Keith Joel Willoughby, 59, had barricaded himself in the home. His wife had sought shelter in a vehicle on the scene and shots were fired as a deputy attempted to get her away from the car.

An armored vehicle from the Etowah County Joint Special Operations Group arrived on scene about 9:45 a.m. and evacuated the woman and deputy. Armored officers secured a perimeter around the home and began attempting to negotiate with Willoughby.

The man moved through the house and would not respond to calls from police. Officers launched gas canisters through several external windows in the home in an attempt to get the man to emerge. After no response, deputies deployed a robot into the home and discovered a body just after 11 a.m.

Horton said no deputies fired shots during the standoff, aside from launching the gas canisters, and he believes the self-inflicted gunshot occured between the time the armored vehicle evacuated the wife and deputy and when officers deployed the gas.

According to the sheriff, the man’s wife said the altercation began early Friday morning, as he began acting erraticly, possibly after coming off his medication. The sheriff said Willoughby had been involuntarily committed for mental health issues twice before by the probate office, but said the wife indicated he had been doing well.

As deputies responded, the Gadsden/Etowah County Emergency Management Agency sent out a notice to residents in the area with instructions to shelter in place.

Horton said that the outcome of the standoff was unfortunate, but responding deputies handled the situation well.

“You hate that it ended like this, but you’re thankful (the wife) and nobody else was injured in the process,” he said.