The grandparents of a 17-year-old boy who was shot and killed last year by Glendale police have filed a $10 million claim with the city and police department.

Levy Isaac Madueno Santibañez was at a party in the early hours of an October morning when the police showed up, responding to calls that came in around 2:44 a.m. reporting gunfire.

It was an illegal party with more than 200 people in an industrial district at 68th Avenue just south of Northern Avenue.

Officer Dylan Ansell, then a four-year veteran of the Glendale Police Department, was the first to arrive. He saw muzzle flashes in the crowd of hundreds, according to the claim.

"F--king hands up. Hands up," he yelled as he left his vehicle, the claim says.

The partygoers ran from Ansell. One of them, Santibañez, looked back while he was running away, according to the claim. Ansell shot him in the back three times with a "high-powered military-type AR-15 rifle," the claim says.

"The act of running away does not justify for an officer to basically take it upon himself to commit capital punishment," said Charles Slack-Méndez, the attorney representing Santibañez's family.

Ansell is still a Glendale police officer.

An investigation into the shooting is pending with the Maricopa County Attorney's Office, said Sgt. Randy Stewart, Glendale police spokesman.

"Further comment concerning a matter that is the subject of litigation would be inappropriate at this time," Stewart said in an email.

$10M claim: 'Gross negligence,' 'excessive force'

The notice of claim, which is often the precursor to a lawsuit, alleges that Ansell showed "gross negligence" and "excessive force" and says the department hasn't trained its officers thoroughly enough to prevent a fatal shooting like this.

The Glendale Police Department's policy only allows for use of deadly force "to overcome an attack," the claim says.

"We hope this would be a lesson to other municipalities and police departments that there’s got to be better training," Slack-Méndez said. "You cannot let these officers use an AR-15 rifle as their first choice."

Slack-Méndez represents Santibañez's grandparents, Antonio and María Santibañez.

Bodycam footage shows chaos as shots fired

Footage from Ansell's bodycam and in-car camera show dozens of people leaving the crowded space as Ansell first arrived, driving north along 68th Avenue.

"There's a large party here. Several hundred people still here," Ansell said into his radio as he pulled to a stop.

Before he gets out of the car, several gunshots are heard and partygoers leaving the scene start to move faster. Ansell got out of his car, grabbed his rifle and shouted, "F---ing hands up. Hands up."

Shots continued to ring out. People leaving the party kept heading south down 68th Avenue, some running, some screaming, some tripping and falling over each other.

"Get your hands up. Hands up. F--king hands up," he shouted. "Get on the ground. Get on the ground. On the ground."

Ansell then shot several times into the crowd before moving next to a pickup truck parked in a driveway on the east side of the street.

"I've got at least three people still actively firing," he called into his radio. "I've got one down ... we need to shut down this entire street."

Another officer arrived on the scene. They went up to Santibañez's body, lying in the street.

"He had a gun ... watch out," Ansell said to the other officer as he stood over Santibañez's body. "Let's just cuff him up just in case."

Police: Rounds tied to Santibañez's gun

Detectives found at least 60 rounds of spent casings at the scene from at least five firearms, and some of them were tied to a handgun recovered from Santibañez, police said.

The police department in November posted an online video of Glendale Lt. Jay O'Neill describing the shooting "to give our community a better understanding of what is known right now."

The video contains graphic bodycam footage of the shooting.

Santibañez is not "clearly visible" in bodycam footage, O'Neill said in the video. But Ansell reported seeing Santibañez with his "arm parallel to the ground, aiming his handgun" in the direction of partygoers.

Ansell said he believed it was an attack on partygoers or part of an "active gun battle," O'Neill said in the video.

Police found a 29-round magazine in Santibañez's left front pocket that had 26 rounds in it when police later unloaded it. They also found a .40 caliber Glock handgun in his front waistband. It had a round in the chamber and a 15-round magazine containing 10 rounds.

Video of shooting spread on social media

Witnesses at the time told The Arizona Republic that videos of the chaos spread quickly over SnapChat that morning.

Some videos show people running up to Santibañez as he lay still on the street. An officer yells at them to "put him down" and "get the f--k back."

"Why'd you have to shoot him?" one person screams in the background.

Police ask anyone who witnessed the shooting firsthand or has videos to contact the Glendale Police Department at 623-930-3000.

Reach reporter Joshua Bowling at jbowling@azcentral.com or 602-444-8138. Follow him on Twitter @MrJoshuaBowling.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.