A father whose son died during a run-in with cops says the NYPD gave him inconsistent accounts of what happened and then refused to provide information from its probe, according to new court papers.

Guillermo Rene Moreira says in the Manhattan Supreme Court documents that his son, Joseph, 25, died Aug. 18 when he fell on the third rail at a subway stop in Brooklyn during a dispute with police.

Rene Moreira, who plans to sue the city, went to the precinct after finding out about his son’s death, and the first detective he spoke with said Joseph “allegedly tried to rob an elderly woman,” the papers say.

But when the father spoke to a different detective by phone, he was told his son “allegedly molested a young woman on a bus” — and that the detective “was unable to explain the discrepancy,” the court papers allege.

Rene Moreira said “it would be totally out of character” for his son to have gotten into trouble that night when he wanted to get home to say goodbye to his sister, who was leaving for her first day of college the next day, according to the court papers.

Rene Moreira eventually got the medical examiner’s report, which said his son died of electrocution after landing on the third rail at the Union Street and Fourth Avenue subway station at 7:41 p.m.

But the report also describes “extensive blunt impact injuries as well as cerebral edema (brain swelling),” the papers say. And the father says in the papers, “I believe my son was assaulted prior to being electrocuted.

“The fact that the police told me inconsistent versions of what lead to my son’s death, and that they will not produce any documents or video relating to their investigation speaks volumes,” the papers state.

Rene Moreira didn’t file a “notice of claim” — the precursor to filing a lawsuit — with the city comptroller’s office within the three-month time limit and is now asking a judge to allow him to file late.

He is seeking the records from the investigation into his son’s death and unspecified damages.

A rep with the city Law Department said, “We will review the legal papers.”

The NYPD did not return a request for comment.

Additional reporting by Stephanie Pagones