Officers investigate a police-involved shooting in the 6200 block of West Grand Avenue in Chicago on July 8, 2019. (Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune)

Videos released by Chicago’s police oversight agency show a squad car in a high-speed pursuit of a Chrysler sedan that ended in dramatic fashion when the sedan clipped another vehicle at a South Side intersection, hurtled into a tree, flipped on its top and spun, killing one occupant.

It was unclear from the videos posted Friday on the Civilian Office of Police Accountability website, though, what led to the police chase in July.

Advertisement

Police typically must follow a balancing test when deciding whether to give chase, pursuing only those wanted for a violent crime — such as murder, armed robbery or kidnapping — while weighing other risk factors such as traffic volume and road conditions.

The agency, which investigates if officers properly used force, also released video and police reports from a fatal shooting by an officer in July on the Northwest Side. Police said the man had a gun in his possession.

Advertisement

COPA continues to investigate both incidents.

The police pursuit ended in a crash killing 23-year-old Jason Yancey of Dolton and injuring three other occupants in the Chrysler that sped from police.

COPA released video from a police dashboard camera, two officers’ body cameras and surveillance footage from other cameras at the scene of the crash in the 400 block of West 71st Street in the Englewood neighborhood.

The video appears to show the officers attempt to pull over the Chrysler, but the video contained no audio at that point so it was unclear why. A police spokeswoman could not offer any information about the incident on Saturday.

An arrest report made public by COPA showed the Chrysler was registered to one of its occupants but that he had no warrants outstanding for his arrest.

At 4:40 p.m. July 10, the Chrysler appeared to slow down and pull to the side of 71st near Peoria Street as the squad car closely followed.

The Chrysler suddenly sped off, weaving through traffic eastbound on 71st.

“Taking off, taking off, taking off,” the officer driving the vehicle could be heard saying on the video as he gave chase.

Advertisement

While being driven on the wrong side of the road, the Chrysler hit a car as it turned westbound onto 71st from Stewart Avenue.

The Chrysler caromed into a cluster of trees and flipped onto the road, landing upside down on 71st, according to surveillance video from a nearby business.

As the officers saw the crash from some distance, the male officer driving the squad car shouted an expletive, while his female partner told him, "Stop, stop, slow down, slow down.

“We need an ambulance quick,” she radioed, according to the body camera video.

One of the occupants of the Chrysler struggled to get out of the upside-down car as both officers ordered him to stay put, according to video. As he exited the vehicle, the officers ordered him to sit at a curb before leading him to the back seat of their squad car.

The Cook County medical examiner’s office ruled Yancey’s death an accident due to injuries from a motor vehicle crash.

Advertisement

The three other men in the Chrysler — two 23-year-olds and one 25-year-old — were taken into custody after the crash but have not been charged in the nearly two months since, according to court records.

The police spokeswoman said the men were released without charges pending further investigation by the department’s major accidents investigation unit.

Video released from the July 8 fatal shooting showed an officer enter a building in the 6200 block of West Grand Avenue in the Belmont Central neighborhood about 7 a.m. after reports that a man there had just been involved in a carjacking and kidnapping.

As the officer spotted a man lying on a couch in one room, he shouted, “Don’t move” and announced he was a cop.

The man, later identified as Luis E. Vasquez, 42, appeared startled and moved his arms, prompting the officer to fire multiple shots.

The officer continued to shout, “Don’t you f------ move,” as Vasquez rolled onto the floor on his back.

Advertisement

The officer pushed away the couch and said, “I’ve got the weapon.”

Moments later, after more police entered the room, the officer said, “He went for his weapon. I had no choice.”

Another officer handcuffed Vasquez.

Police appeared unsure if anyone else was in the building. The officer took possession of the gun, saying, “Guys, I’m going to take the weapon to make sure no one comes behind us."

Outside, the officer explained to a supervisor why he opened fire.

“That’s all right. Just take a deep breath and calm down, OK,” the supervisor said before asking him how many shots he fired.

Advertisement

“I would want to say five, but I’m not positive,” the officer said. “Until he stopped going for the gun, I kept shooting.”

mbuckley@chicagotribune.com