Limichael Shine came at police officers with a knife in Manchester after calling 911 operators in an erratic rant, authorities said. The suicidal 18-year-old man, whose family said he had just enlisted in the Marines, died in a barrage of gunfire.

So did 56-year-old Christopher Apostolos, whom police had made welfare checks on five days running because of concerns about his mental health. During the last one, he lunged at officers, choked one and latched onto his service weapon, authorities said.

Julian Hoffman, 21, also called 911 operators, saying he was about to cause a disturbance. When police arrived, he was holding what looked like a semi-automatic handgun, authorities said. It wasn't. Hoffman was gunned down too.

Since 2015, there have been 11 fatal police-involved shootings in Monmouth and Ocean counties.

Around the state: A look at some NJ police-involved deaths and if charges were brought

All the victims were men and all but one was armed, according to authorities: Six had knives, two had guns, one had a pair of scissors. Hoffman had a replica toy gun, his family said. All had allegedly threatened police officers and in some cases others with deadly force, according to authorities.

Two of the investigations into the most recent incidents remain open. The officers in all but one of the other cases were cleared by investigations. A grand jury heard one case and declined to indict the officer, according to a Washington Post database of police-involved fatal shootings since 2015.

Following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, critics and advocates have called for an overhaul of the system of policing and a way to eradicate bias against Black people.

George Floyd killing: Here's why bad cops remain on the force and what needs to be fixed

Race does not appear to have been a significant factor in the police-involved deaths in the two counties. Eight were white, one was Asian, one was Black and one was of an unknown race.

But mental health problems were.

Four of the fatal shootings followed calls about suicidal men. Four others started with a call to police about men acting otherwise erratically.

Inadequate training

Jon Shane, an associate professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, went to hundreds of calls to deal with emotionally disturbed people during his 16-year career as a police officer in Newark, he said.

He never felt adequately trained to respond to those calls, Shane said.

“You don’t bring any specialized training in psychology with you,” he said. “All you bring is brute force and you bring with you state law and authority. You bring muscle to the scene. And that’s a problem. The community doesn’t need that from you.”

Protecting the Shield: An Asbury Park Press investigation

New Jersey law requires police to handle all mental health calls. But Shane has called that law into question.

“It’s never been explained to me why police have been co-opted into mental illness calls instead of EMS or someone else,” aside from clearly needed police responses to calls involving physical threats or weapons.

Few would argue the police are not necessary in those situations.

But what’s also needed, Shane said, is the expertise of mental health experts and a “caring medical hand.”

Shifting attitude

Efforts are afoot to improve training and protocols allowing police to better deal with mental health calls.

The Monmouth County Prosecutor’s Office and other agencies in New Jersey have established special needs registries that can help identify people in the community with autism, other disabilities and mental illnesses to stem any misunderstandings by patrol officers about their behavior.

Officers in some police departments in New Jersey have undergone training to help them deal with people who are emotionally distressed. But what’s known as Crisis Intervention Team training has been spotty, expensive and not required, Shane and state officials said.

On June 2, state Attorney General Gurbir Grewal announced a plan to expand Crisis Intervention Team training to departments across New Jersey. Those teams combine the expertise of police and mental health professionals to deal with people having psychiatric emergencies.

The announcement came shortly after a Black man, Maurice Gordon, 28, of Poughkeepsie, New York, was gunned down May 23 by a state trooper on the Garden State Parkway in Burlington County after a struggle with the trooper. The police first got involved when 911 operators received a call from Gordon’s friend about Gordon’s well-being 30 hours earlier, authorities said.

Parkway shooting: Police video shows struggle before NY man shot on Parkway

Grewal is trying to build a statewide Crisis Intervention Team training program, part of his Excellence in Policing initiative. The state will launch a pilot program with police departments in Atlantic City, Paterson, Trenton and Millville, as well as New Jersey State Police Troopers assigned in Trenton, he said.

There was no information on funding.

Crisis Intervention Teams are one of the most effective ways to reduce police use-of-force and death-in-custody incidents, Grewal said in a statement from his office.

Fatal police-involved shooting: Family of man shot by New Jersey state trooper outraged by AG

While it's unknown whether mental health professionals on scene would have altered the outcome of any of the shootings in Monmouth and Ocean counties, at least one family argued that they would have.

The following are short accounts of those shootings:

Charles Tsakiris, Farmingdale

On Oct. 18, 2019, 911 operators received a call from a Walnut Street home in the small borough from a man who said he was dying after being stabbed by his brother.

When a Howell police officer arrived that night and banged on the home’s door, Charles "Chuck" Tsakiris Jr., 38, lumbered out of the home with a knife in his hand.

"Why are cops here, cause I killed somebody?" Tsakiris, an Iraq War veteran, mumbled, according to the bodycam video footage of the shooting.

Inside death by cop: Police misconduct can take lives

The officer yelled for Tsakiris to back up more than a half dozen times. Tsakiris, who was white, continued toward him with the knife.

“Just kill me,” Tsakiris said. “Just kill me.”

The officer fired five shots.

Police later found Teresa Oshel, 40, dead in the bathroom of the home. Another resident — 36-year-old Jeffrey Tsakiris — was taken to the hospital and treated for injuries on the same night, according to the state Attorney General's Office.

The Attorney General has not completed its investigation and has not identified the officer.

To see footage from the bodycam of the officer involved in the Tsakiris shooting, scroll to the video above. WARNING: It contains graphic images and language.

James P. Manzo, Asbury Park

On July 23, 2019, police were called to The Asbury Inn, a rooming house on Seventh Avenue, about a resident there acting erratically.

After police attempted to talk to the man, Manzo, 27, emerged from his room, wielding a pair of scissors, police said.

A police use-of-force report identifies the officer who shot Manzo as James Crawford, who has been with the Asbury Park Police Department since 2017, according to public records.

NJ police shootings: Use of force reports reveal new details

Crawford fired five shots — all of which struck Manzo, who was white — from a distance of about two or three feet, according to the report. An EMS technician or paramedic was at the scene.

The Attorney General’s Office has not completed its investigation.

Edward Walsh, Mantoloking

On Nov. 12, 2018, when police closed in on Edward Walsh, wanted for kidnapping and assaulting a woman in Middlesex County, he brandished a knife, slashed his own neck, stabbed a police dog then moved threateningly toward the officers, authorities said.

That's when four officers fired at Walsh, who was white, in the Barnegat Lane home where he was hiding out, killing him. The three Mantoloking police officers and one Ocean County Sheriff's officer were cleared by an investigation, and the case was not presented to a grand jury.

The officers were not identified.

Blood and urine tests showed that Walsh had amphetamine, methamphetamine and THC in his system, and signs of cocaine and fentanyl use. The toxicology report also noted that “blood levels of 200 to 600ng/mL have been reported in methamphetamine abusers who exhibited violent and irrational behavior.”

Walsh’s methamphetamine level was 950 ng/mL.

Investigation: First look at secret NJ police deadly shooting reports

Keshawn Wilson, Brick

On Aug. 20, 2017, at 5:30 a.m. police received 911 calls about an assault on Meridian Drive.

According to authorities, one caller told police that Keshawn Wilson, 32, had a gun and members of the household had barricaded themselves in a back bedroom. One resident escaped by jumping out the bedroom window and running across the street for help, authorities said.

Patrol officers Anthony Chadwick, Richard Zimmerer and Ryan Osborn, an officer who fired his weapon in an earlier fatality, responded with Sgt. Donald Smith, authorities said.

While in the home, Wilson, who was Black, fired a round from a Rohm .38-special revolver at the officers, authorities said. All four returned fire, killing him. All were cleared by an investigation. The case was not presented to a grand jury.

Law enforcement: Here are 5 ways you can start holding your police accountable

Christopher Apostolos, Toms River

On March 14, 2017 at 12:30 p.m., police went to Edgewood Court in the Silver Ridge apartment complex on a call about the welfare of a mentally ill man.

When two members of the Toms River Police Department encountered Christopher Apostolos, 56, a fight broke out, Al Della Fave, the spokesman for Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office at the time, said in a statement.

Apostolos, who was white, attacked the officers, and although unarmed, he went for the service weapon of one the officers, authorities said.

According to the use of force report in the case, Officers Mark DeGrandis and Francis Bopp were at the scene, both firing at Apostolos. DeGrandis had 10 years of service; Bopp, 15.

According to a published report, the officers searched the apartment during what had been the another welfare check on Apostolos in five days of them. He jumped out of a closet, grabbed DeGrandis by the throat and tried to wrest his firearm from him. Bopp fired the final round.

The officers were cleared by an investigation. The case was not presented to a grand jury.

Limichael Shine, Manchester

On July 31, 2016, police went to a Robin Street home to respond to a call about a suicidal man with unknown weapons. The caller was 18-year-old Limichael Shine, who told police he was a Marine "and had anger issues."

"You will see people laughing as soon as the first patrol car arrives,” he told a 911 operator, according to authorities.

Shine, whose obituary said he had enlisted in the Marines, charged at arriving officers with a knife, according to authorities. According to a use of force report, Manchester Patrolman Michael Lynch Jr. killed Shine with one round. Lynch then had 16 years of service as a police officer.

Shine, who was Asian-American, left a note behind, according to authorities, that read: "I am sorry to the officer on duty that will do this act. Remember you are loved."

Shine's family members, who did not comment publicly after the shooting, could not be reached this week.

Asbury Park town hall: AG addresses 'huge divides' between police, communities

Patrick Fennell, Little Egg Harbor

On July 16, 2016, Patrick Fennell's wife called 911 at 6:52 p.m. to say that her husband was drunk and that she had heard shots fired in the basement of their Little Egg Harbor home. She told the 911 operator that she confronted him in the basement and grabbed some loose bullets as the retired New York City police lieutenant loaded his silver .22-caliber revolver.

He pushed her aside and headed for the woods in back of his home, she told the operator.

Ocean County SWAT team members were called to the scene. Following a search, they found the 57-year-old decorated former cop hiding in the brush. Fennell, who was white, pointed the gun at the officers, saying “Don’t come any closer. This is going to be a bad day,” according to authorities' account.

One of the officers fired eight rounds in two volleys at Fennell, killing him, authorities said.

The case was presented to a grand jury that declined to indict the unnamed SWAT officer.

Michael Laniado, Manchester

On February 6, 2016, township police went to the Pine Acres mobile home park on to execute a $3,330 child support warrant on Michael Laniado’s girlfriend.

Manchester officers had encountered problems with Laniado before. They went to the home the previous night over a dispute between Laniado and neighbors.

In 2014, Laniado, whose race was listed as unknown, had called police and said, “I’m going to be famous. … I’m going to get a cop to shoot me,” an officer reported after the February shooting.

In the February 2016 incident, a five-hour standoff ensued with 27-year-old Laniado waving a karambit, a knife with a curved blade. SWAT officers tried to subdue Laniado with tear gas, then non-lethal projectiles, authorities said.

Laniado, 27, died in a hail of police bullets, after charging at officers, authorities said.

The officers, who were identified in a federal law suit filed by Laniado's family as Brad Frank, an Ocean County Prosecutor's Office employee and a member of the county SWAT team, Manchester Police Officer Charles Gatnarek and Berkeley Township Police Officer Jason Mroczka. Gatnarek filed two "less than lethal" rounds of ammunition, according to the suit.

The officers were cleared by an investigation. The case was not presented to a grand jury.

Laniado's family contended that the police did not have proper training, should have called in mental health professionals and should have known about Laniado's problems because of past encounters.

The lawsuit, filed in February 2018, was dismissed in July 2019.

'I'm going to die.': One body, two different causes of death

Francis Hartnett, Little Egg Harbor

On November, 17, 2015, at 11:35 a.m. township police went to Willow Oaks Drive on the report of a suicidal man.

When they arrived and entered the home, Francis Hartnett, 47, brandished a knife and started to move toward the officers, authorities said. Several officers fired at Hartnett, who was white.

The officers, who were not identified, were cleared by an investigation.

Julian Hoffman, Brick

On Aug. 23, 2015, about 10:50 p.m., Brick police went to the Cherrywood Circle home of Julian Hoffman, 21, after he called 911 and said he was going to “create a disturbance,” authorities said.

When they arrived, Hoffman was outside holding what authorities said appeared to be a black semiautomatic handgun. Hoffman, who was white, refused to drop the gun and two officers shot him, authorities said.

Patrolmen Jay Nye and Ryan Osborne, the officers who fired the shots, were cleared by an investigation. The case was not presented to a grand jury.

Hoffman’s family declined to comment.

Their attorney, Don Lomurro of Freehold, spoke on their behalf.

“There was a number of police officers that night who did not pull out their guns and end the young man’s life,” Lomurro said. “The family would have expected that all of the police officers would have shown the same restraint.”

'We’re members of this community': Riding with cops tackling Asbury Park violence

Scott McAllister, Middletown

At 11:30 p.m. on May 26, 2015, township police went to Scott McAllister’s home on Bayside Parkway on the report of a domestic dispute.

When they arrived, McAllister's live-in girlfriend fled the house, telling police that McAllister was intoxicated and had beaten her.

She told them McAllister, who was white, was armed with a knife and was threatening to harm their 13-month-old son.

A five-hour standoff ensued.

The Monmouth County Emergency Response Team and a hostage negotiator arrived to try to get McAllister to surrender and give up the child.

When officers stormed the house, McAllister, 39, wielded a knife, made threatening statements, and moved toward the officers who fatally shot him, authorities said.

Standoff: AG says cops were justified in killing Middletown man

The unnamed officers were cleared by an investigation.

Ken Serrano has covered crime, breaking news, investigations and local issues for more than 20 years in New Jersey. Reach him at 732-643-4029 or at kserrano@gannettnj.com.