A 17-year-old Fargo girl who was taken hostage during an August shootout testified that Brandon Keller and Michael Sherman knew they were shooting at police but didn't want to hit them.

The juvenile was one of a half dozen witnesses called by the state to testify in the second day of the Brandon Keller trial before South Central District Judge Donald Jorgensen. The trial is scheduled to go through Friday.

Keller, 19, of West Fargo, is on trial for allegedly conspiring and attempting to kill Bismarck police officers. His co-conspirator, Sherman, 27, of Fargo, was killed and a police officer was injured in a 14-hour standoff.

The juvenile said she was in a back bedroom with Keller and Sherman when police came to serve a search warrant for methamphetamine and paraphernalia. She testified that she heard someone break through the front door and Sherman's mother scream, but didn't know it was the Bismarck police until they reached the back bedroom.

When they heard the scream, Sherman shut and locked the bedroom door and Keller barricaded it with a piece of furniture, she said. The men then grabbed two 9-millimeter handguns from a black bag and loaded them.

The juvenile testified she heard someone stumbling down the hallway yelling, "Bismarck Police Department search warrant," before they tried to break down the bedroom door. She said Sherman was yelling, "Get back or I'm going to shoot," and Keller said, "Get back. Get back."

"They (Keller and Sherman) warned them three times," she said. "The door looked like rubber. It was curved and looked like it was going to break through."

Keller and Sherman each shot three to four rounds towards the door. There was no question that they were shooting at police, the girl said.

As police were retreating, Sherman yelled to them that they had taken her hostage. Keller later called the police department with the same message, she said.

During the early hours of the subsequent 14-hour standoff, Keller and Sherman took turns holding a gun to her head. At one point she leaned forward to stretch and Keller's gun went off next to her ear. The bullet went into the ceiling of the mobile home.

The juvenile described Keller and Sherman as "scared" and doing everything on "instinct. Nothing was planned out."

The juvenile said that when she was released midway through the standoff, she told police that they "screwed up" and Keller and Sherman had "lots of ammo." She denied saying that Sherman and Keller wouldn't surrender without a fight and that they had a shotgun.

During a cross examination by Keller's attorney, Wayne Goter, the juvenile said Keller and Sherman didn't want to shoot a police officer and were planning to surrender.

The juvenile's testimony came after Victoria Hoff told of how she led police to Keller and Sherman in an effort to save her daughter's life.

Hoff's daughter, Angelique Waliser, met Keller and Sherman through mutual friends. They and other members of the group spent their time taking and dealing methamphetamine and dodging police, Hoff said.

Drugs were nothing new to Hoff. She was once addicted to cocaine. She said she didn't want that life for her daughter.

"It was like seeing my daughter live my life and it scared me," Hoff said.

So Hoff came up with a plan. She worked to gain the trust of Keller and Sherman. She learned what she could and passed the information on to police.

"I wanted to get the information I needed to have those people arrested," Hoff testified. "My daughter was going to go down the road with these guys and I wasn't going to let that happen."

Hoff opened her home to the Keller and Sherman. She told them she hated cops and informants. She made their favorite meals and baked goods. She did favors to gain their trust and eventually began taking meth with them.

"I knew the only way to get in that inner circle was to do the drugs myself," she said. "When I started doing the drug I started getting information left and right."

Hoff went to the police with what she said she learned: Keller and Sherman each had a 9 mm handgun, three clips and a box of bullets. They were transporting meth from Fargo and possibly Minneapolis to Bismarck and planned to shoot it out with police if they were ever confronted. The women in the group - including Waliser - were to be used as hostages.

"Everyone was in agreement with that plan," Hoff said. "Sherman said he would go down in a blaze of glory and take six cops with him."

Police failed to capture Keller and Sherman when the men didn't show up during two surveillance efforts at Hoff's north Bismarck residence. It was when Hoff went to the Bismarck police department, angry at the police officers' failure and scared for her life, that she received a call from Sherman. The call was traced to the south Bismarck mobile home and ultimately led police officers to the shootout.

In a cross examination by Keller's attorney, Wayne Goter, Hoff described Sherman as "evil," but said she "was never afraid of Keller." She testified that although Keller told her that he planned to take her daughter hostage if he ran into police, he never said he would shoot at police officers.

The jury trial ended Tuesday night with testimony by Steve Lundin - the Bismarck police officer who was injured in the shootout. Lundin will continue to tell of his involvement in serving the search warrant when the trial resumes at 8:30 a.m. today.

(Reach reporter Mike Albrecht at 250-8261 or cops@ndonline.com.)