Prosecutors will not pursue criminal charges against the Madison police officers who shot and killed Dana Sherrod Fletcher last month outside Planet Fitness.

“The evidence in this case is crystal clear,” said Madison County District Attorney Rob Broussard at a press conference today. “The actions of Madison Police Department were entirely justified.”

Broussard said his office decided not to pursue charges after reviewing “abundant” evidence in the case, including video footage captured on body-worn police cameras. Fletcher pointed a gun toward police officers who were investigating a report of a suspicious person at the gym on Oct. 27, the authorities said. Two officers fired at Fletcher, who suffered two gunshot wounds to the head, one to the shoulder and additional graze wounds, prosecutors said. The entire confrontation lasted about nine minutes.

Fletcher told police nine times during the encounter to “go ahead and do it, shoot me,” according to the district attorney.

5 1 / 5 Dana Fletcher shooting press conference

Fletcher’s family has maintained that he was unarmed, and called for the authorities to release video footage of the deadly shooting. Although the district attorney’s office showed news reporters still images from the video footage, the authorities have declined to release comprehensive footage.

In a statement Friday evening, Ben Crump and Antonio Romanucci, national civil rights and personal injury attorneys who are representing the Fletcher family, applauded Madison County authorities for releasing the images.

“We continue to press for full transparency in releasing all the bodycam video and audio files from this incident so we can assess all of the facts of this situation,” the attorneys said in the statement. “It is our strong belief that bodycams are an integral part of a transparent and accountable criminal justice system and can provide answers to this family. The ability of the public to observe firsthand the actions of officers is essential to establishing and maintaining trust of law enforcement among the citizens they are sworn to protect.”

Prosecutors just showed us these still images from body camera, showing Fletcher with a gun pic.twitter.com/X36y5e2sKt — Ashley Remkus (@aremkus1) November 15, 2019

Broussard announced the decision not to prosecute the case just over a week after the Madison County sheriff’s office, which investigated the case, sent the investigative file to prosecutors.

Broussard said his office won’t take the case to a grand jury for review because "I don’t think a reasonable mind could ever find probable cause that the officer was not justified in what he did.”

Madison city police officers were called on that Sunday afternoon to investigate a report of Dana Fletcher taking pictures and asking “weird” questions inside Planet Fitness, the authorities said. The officers found Fletcher, his wife and their daughter inside the family’s van. Within a minute of police interacting with Fletcher, he put his hand on a pistol, said Tim Gann, Madison County’s chief trial attorney. At that point, Gann said, police had probable cause to ask Fletcher to get out of the vehicle.

Fletcher didn’t comply with police orders, the authorities said, so officers unsuccessfully tried using a taser and police dog to him out of the van and disarmed. Near the end of the nine-minute encounter, prosecutors said, Fletcher came out of the van with the pistol in his hand.

“If this man complies, none of this happens,” Broussard said. He praised the work that local law enforcement does in Madison County.

The Fletcher family has denied that Dana or his wife, Cherelle, committed any crimes that day. Gann said Dana Fletcher was forbidden to possess a gun because of a 2001 felony conviciton for marijuana possession. The gun belonged to Cherelle Fletcher, who had a pistol permit, Gann said.

The Fletcher family has demanded the authorities release the contents of the call that prompted police to go to the gym that day. The district attorney didn’t release specific details about what the caller reported to police.

Dana Sherrod Fletcher was killed by police in Madison, Ala. on Oct. 27, 2019. (Photo courtesy of Fletcher family)

Several officers, including two who fired their guns at Dana Fletcher, were on leave after the shooting. Madison city officials said they planned to release a statement later Friday. Previously they have declined to say whether the officers have returned to work. The city also hasn’t commented on its internal review process to determine whether the officers followed policy during the deadly incident.

Dana Fletcher’s memorial service will be held Tuesday.

“The Fletcher family remains grieving and our thoughts are with them as they mourn and lay Dana to rest,” the family’s attorneys said.

Last updated at 5:21 p.m. to add a statement from the Fletcher family’s lawyers.

Full coverage of the death of Dana Sherrod Fletcher