Evansville police say an officer shot and killed a Wadesville man Monday night at the scene of a car crash near Theater Drive.

EPD Capt. Andy Chandler said at a press conference Tuesday that the man was aggressively approaching officer Mario Reid with a hammer before he was shot and killed. Chandler disputed the account of a witness that reported the incident to 911 who said the Wadesville man had his hands on his head at the time.

Here's what we know about the incident following the press conference:

Who was killed?

Terry Chanley, 45, was killed near the intersection of Morgan Avenue and Theater Drive after crashing his Jeep Wrangler into a utility pole.

Chanley had been married for 21 years at the time of his death and was a father of two. A member of Painters Local No. 156, Chanley worked for J&L Acoustics, a drywall company in Evansville.

Police say witnesses told the officer who arrived on the scene about two minutes later that Chanley appeared to be under the influence.

The officer found Chanley in the vehicle with the door open.

How police described the shooting

Reid, whose name police released Thursday, asked Chanley for his driver's license and registration. He reportedly shook his head and reached for an object under his seat.

The officer told Chanley to stop, but he ignored the officer's commands.

Reid backed away from the vehicle, drew his weapon and ordered Chanley to show his hands.

Chanley allegedly pointed a black object at the officer, who believed the black claw hammer to be a gun.

Chanley left his vehicle and started walking toward the officer, Chandler said, "in an aggressive manner."

The officer fired at Chanley, believing him to be an immediate threat to himself and witnesses. At 6:32 p.m., a report of shots fired was sent over dispatch radio.

Chanley continued to advance toward Reid, who was backing away. Reid fired again. Chanley still was approaching the officer, who fired once more.

How a witness described the shooting

The only reported first-hand account comes from a 911 call obtained by the Courier & Press under Indiana's Access to Public Records Act. It conflicts with the official police version of events.

"I just witnessed a cop shoot a guy in the chest," Vincent Owen said, distressed, during the call. "Man, the guy didn't have no gun or nothing. He had his hands on his head, and a cop just shot him right in the chest."

"That guy didn't have no gun and he had his hands up on his head," he said, "and he was like trying to dodge the bullet and the cop shot like five f*cking bullets at the guy."

Deadly shooting:One dead in officer-involved shooting in Evansville, EPD says

Police's account:EPD: Wadesville man killed by police was holding hammer; officer acted appropriately

Owen left his name and number with dispatchers, but he told The Courier & Press he hadn't been contacted by police as of Tuesday afternoon.

Police released dash and body cam video from the shooting

Chandler said body camera footage, dash camera footage, eyewitness video, statements from three witnesses and physical evidence support police's conclusion.

EPD released dash and body cam video from the incident Wednesday afternoon.

How did police respond to the shooting?

Chandler said Reid acted in a "legal, justified and reasonable manner." They initially declined to release his name, citing his health.

Reid remains on administrative leave, following department policy that requires officers involved in high-stress situations to take at least three days off.

An internal investigation into the shooting is ongoing.

Officer Mario Reid has been on the force since 2014

Reid is involved in community education programs at the Evansville African American Museum's Black History Month programming. He's participated in the Baptisttown Street Festival to improve relationships between police officers and residents of the Fourth Ward, according to police.

Before joining EPD in 2014, Reid was an after-school programming coordinator at the Carver Community Center, police said.

Reid featured on a number of posts on EPD's social media pages at various outreach events.

Sarah Robinson is a digital producer with USA TODAY NETWORK. Follow her on Twitter: @SarahR_92.