A 63-year-old Madison man died from injuries he sustained after being shot by Madison police officers Sunday night.

"Preliminary investigation is indicating the subject was armed with a handgun and did in fact fire a shot at officers in the encounter." said Acting Police Chief Victor Wahl.

According to Wahl, officers responded to reports of a man shooting a gun in a front yard on the 6500 block of Raymond Road around 9:15 p.m Sunday.

"All the sudden you heard about five shots and then there was a pause and then it was like pop pop pop pop," said Monica Howard, a neighbor in the Heather Downs Apartment complex.

Howard said she walked out of her apartment and saw EMT's performing life-saving efforts to the man.

"Then we saw him on a stretcher and they put them into the ambulance and then after they put him into the ambulance there was a back up convoy ambulance that follow that ambulance out,” said Howard.

The man later died at the hospital.

Howard said she believes the man who was shot had ongoing mental health issues. "I’m sure this was probably some mental health issue occurring," Howard said.

"So whether that’s a mental health crisis we’ve had that happen in our building, or if it’s a domestic - [police] are very good about interviewing and asking what the situation is and really trying to be understanding, and West district really focuses on mental health," according to Howard

"Well it's certainly nothing that anybody in my position wants to go through. It's difficult for the community." said Wahl. "It's a tragedy for the family of the suspect. It's a tragedy for the officers who were involved in the incident. It's very difficult for all involved so it's nothing any of us want to go through."

Wahl said the investigation has been turned over to the Dane County Sheriff's Investigate Unit, who combed through the ground for evidence.

The Wisconsin Department of Justice released a statement following the shooting.

The officers involved have been put on administrative paid leave according to the Madison Police Department. That is standard policy for the department as the officer-involved shooting investigation continues.

According to the Wisconsin Professional Police Association, members of their field and legal staff assisted the officers involved in the incident.

Madison Mayor Satya Rhodes-Conway released a statement Monday afternoon.

The small yellow spots on the ground are evidence markers. We’ve seen authorities taking metal detectors and using their hands to shift through the leaves looking for evidence. @nbc15_madison #WakeUpToMore pic.twitter.com/heeUbajXC5 — Amelia Jones NBC15 (@AmeliaJonesTV) October 28, 2019

‪Last night, members of the WPPA’s field & legal staff responded to assist the officers involved in this incident. Please keep all impacted by this event in your thoughts and prayers. Posted by The Wisconsin Professional Police Association on Monday, October 28, 2019