David Flick, 58, of Cass County, was shot and killed in a parking lot at 135th Street and Lamar Avenue

State records give clues to how a fatal shooting Monday outside of an Overland Park office ended with a man taking his own life during a traffic stop in Kearney.About 8:15 a.m., David Flick, 58, of Cass County, was shot and killed in a parking lot at 135th Street and Lamar Avenue, just outside Terra Technologies, the environmental consulting company he helped run.Clay County deputies found a white SUV that matched a description put out by Overland Park police at Highway 92 and Porter Ridge Road. Authorities said when deputies approached, they say the driver, Scott MacDonald, 60, of Cass County, killed himself. "There's loss of life involved here, and we never want loss of life. We actually want answers to what happened," Capt. Will Akin said. "In this case, we're not going to get those answers until we piece it together through the investigation."Just a couple of weeks ago, Flick had reached an agreement in a 2 1/2 year custody battle. The woman he was fighting with was in a relationship with MacDonald. State records show that MacDonald spent 16 years in prison for first-degree assault and a drug charge. "This is a terrible tragedy for David and his children and something that David was always concerned could happen," Flick's attorney, Josh Jones, said in a statement.

State records give clues to how a fatal shooting Monday outside of an Overland Park office ended with a man taking his own life during a traffic stop in Kearney.

About 8:15 a.m., David Flick, 58, of Cass County, was shot and killed in a parking lot at 135th Street and Lamar Avenue, just outside Terra Technologies, the environmental consulting company he helped run.



Advertisement

Clay County deputies found a white SUV that matched a description put out by Overland Park police at Highway 92 and Porter Ridge Road. Authorities said when deputies approached, they say the driver, Scott MacDonald, 60, of Cass County, killed himself.



"There's loss of life involved here, and we never want loss of life. We actually want answers to what happened," Capt. Will Akin said. "In this case, we're not going to get those answers until we piece it together through the investigation."

Just a couple of weeks ago, Flick had reached an agreement in a 2 1/2 year custody battle. The woman he was fighting with was in a relationship with MacDonald. State records show that MacDonald spent 16 years in prison for first-degree assault and a drug charge.

"This is a terrible tragedy for David and his children and something that David was always concerned could happen," Flick's attorney, Josh Jones, said in a statement.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

UPDATE: One man dead from a self-inflicted gunshot near 92 Hwy and Porter Ridge. Deputies made a felony traffic stop after a BOLO warning from Overland Park. @kmbc pic.twitter.com/VnrUREC1sJ — Matt Flener KMBC (@MattFlenerKMBC) October 28, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

BREAKING: Pictures of law enforcement activity near 92 Highway and Porter Ridge in Kearney. @kmbc (Pics courtesy Steve Gray) pic.twitter.com/LIAYJtsRGF — Matt Flener KMBC (@MattFlenerKMBC) October 28, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

BREAKING: KMBC 9 Investigates has learned there is significant police activity near 92 Highway and Porter Ridge Rd. in Kearney, Mo. A source says this may be related to the Overland Park homicide investigation. We are headed there now. @kmbc — Matt Flener KMBC (@MattFlenerKMBC) October 28, 2019

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.