The Orange-Osceola State Attorney’s office recently declined to press charges in two cases in which deputy sheriffs shot men who were not armed, including one in which a deputy just four months on the job mistook a cell phone for a gun.

In letters obtained by the Orlando Sentinel through a public records request, Assistant State Attorney Linda Drane Burdick wrote that, in both cases, the deputies reasonably thought they were in danger and needed to protect themselves.

In the first shooting, Osceola deputies were responding to an identity theft call Dec. 23, 2018. The caller said he and his girlfriend were parked in a Mini Cooper outside the home of someone who he thought stole his identity, Burdick wrote.

After the deputies arrived around 7 p.m., the Mini Cooper quickly drove up with its lights off behind the deputies. The caller’s girlfriend got out of a car and started talking in Spanish and pointing at a nearby home.

Deputies told her to get back into the car, but she didn’t initially understand them, Burdick wrote. Then, the caller, Mark Jensen Santana Rivera, got out of the car and ran toward the deputies, despite their orders to calm down and stop running, Burdick wrote.

Deputy Christian Stephens, who had only been a deputy for four months and was still in training, said he saw what he thought was a gun in Santana Rivera’s outstretched hand. Stephens told him to drop the gun, but Santana Rivera did not comply and moved between two patrol cars, Burdick wrote.

Stephens fired three times and Santana Rivera was hit in the chest and ankle, but survived. Santana Rivera told FDLE agents in an interview that he didn’t have anything in his hands, but surveillance video from a neighbor showed he was holding a black object, believed to be his cell phone. There was no body worn camera footage.

“This tragedy is compounded by the fact that the police arrived at this scene only because the injured party called 911 to report a crime,” Burdick wrote in a Sept. 22 letter to Osceola County Sheriff Russ Gibson.

Burdick wrote that Stephens “believed Santana Rivera had a gun and that he needed to take action to prevent death or imminent harm to himself, the other deputies, and the female that was behind him.” She also noted his inexperience.

“There is no evidence in this instance that Deputy Stephens committed intentional misconduct or acted with any degree of malice or prejudice,” Burdick wrote.

Stephens now works for the Orlando Police Department.

In the other shooting, Orange County deputies on the SWAT team were serving a search warrant for drugs on Nov. 1, 2019, at a home on Jepson Street in the Park Manor subdivision, off Dean Road, north of State Road 408. Deputies Gabriel Ortiz, Alexander Richards and Jovani Santos Hernandez were on the team chosen to make the initial entry into the home, according to Burdick.

Orange County Sheriff John Mina briefs reporters after deputies shot and killed a suspected drug trafficker at a house on Jepson Street in east Orange on Friday Nov. 1, 2019.

They announced themselves as police and said they had a warrant before breaking down the door, Burdick wrote in an Oct. 5 letter to Orange County Sheriff John Mina. Ortiz saw Luis Morales Camacho, the target of the warrant, inside and told him to stop and show his hands, she wrote.

Instead Morales Camacho ignored the commands and reached into a cabinet above a microwave, Burdick wrote.

“Fearing that Morales Camacho was reaching for a gun, Deputy Ortiz and Cpl. Richards fired their rifles,” Burdick said. “An instant later, Santos Hernandez fired his rifle as he believed Morales Camacho was firing upon Deputy Ortiz and the entry team.”

Morales Camacho, 41, was shot 12 times in the torso and legs, an autopsy released Wednesday showed. He also had cocaine and opiates in his system, the autopsy said. There was no body worn camera footage of the shooting.

Detectives later found an unspecified amount of drugs near where Morales Camacho was reaching, but no gun, according to Burdick.

At the time of the shooting, Mina called Morales-Camacho a drug-trafficking suspect who was wanted on charges including racketeering and conspiracy to traffic cocaine and heroin.

Both shootings were investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which forwarded its findings to the State Attorney’s Office for review, as is standard after shootings by law enforcement.

dharris@orlandosentinel.com