Lauren Villagran

A Border Patrol agent shot and killed a man early Monday in Sunland Park after the man allegedly opened fire on the agent.

About 6 a.m., the agent encountered four people in the southern New Mexico town outside El Paso, near the 1200 block of McNutt Road, according to U.S Border Patrol. A foot pursuit took place with one suspect and two agents, according to New Mexico State Police. At some point during the foot pursuit, the suspect fired a weapon at the two Border Patrol agents.

One of the four "produced a firearm and shot at the agent," Border Patrol said in the statement.

The agent returned fire, then provided aid to the wounded man until emergency medical personnel arrived. The man was pronounced dead at a local hospital. The agent wasn't injured, Border Patrol said.

Border Patrol did not release information about the man's name, age, citizenship or residence.

Agents with the New Mexico State Police Investigation Bureau are working on identifying the suspect and will not release a name until family has been notified. The Border Patrol agent's name will not be released until all interviews have been completed.

The agent works for Border Patrol's Santa Teresa station, whose area of responsibility stretches from Mt. Cristo Rey across the urban footprint of Sunland Park into the open desert on the way to Columbus, New Mexico.

The station is part of Border Patrol's El Paso Sector, which includes West Texas and all of New Mexico. About 2,300 agents work for the sector, with about half of them stationed in New Mexico.

Stay up-to-date on everything along the border. Subscribe here.

Monday's Sunland Park shooting shut down about a mile of McNutt Road, beginning at the corner of Racetrack Drive where Sunland Park City Hall and police headquarters are located.

Hector Villa, 32, works at Ultra Health, a medical marijuana dispensary just north of where the shooting occurred. He said he arrived around 8:30 a.m. to find Border Patrol blocking off the intersection.

By 9 a.m., city construction crews had arrived to help block off the road from that corner to Sunland Park Drive.

CBP said it "is supporting investigations into the incident." CBP's Office of Professional Responsibility also investigates agent- and officer-involved shootings.

There have been 108 officer- and agent-involved shootings involving a firearm in the past five years, according to U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Border Patrol is one of the nation's largest law enforcement agencies, with roughly 19,500 agents.

CBP reported 15 use-of-force incidents involving a firearm in fiscal year 2018 — all involving Border Patrol agents. That number is down 73% from 55 use-of-force incidents involving a firearm in fiscal 2012.

The decrease in use-of-force incidents involving a firearm follows the release of revamped CBP guidelines, in 2014.

Amid several high-profile, lethal shootings by border agents, then-CBP Commissioner Gil Kerlikowske issued a new use-of-force handbook that prioritized de-escalation and encouraged officers and agents to avoid putting themselves in situations that could require deadly force.

The new policies also required agents to carry and be trained in the use of less-lethal weapons.

"There was a lot of publicity around those cross-border shootings that make agents think twice around use of force," said Vicki Gaubeca, executive director of the Southern Border Communities Coalition, which brings together border nonprofits. "That would be my hope. That that is the reason we seeing the use-of-force numbers go down."

CBP hasn't released fiscal 2019 use-of-force statistics.

In June, CBP officers shot dead a 23-year-old Travis James Eckstein, a U.S. citizen, at the San Ysidro port of entry in California, after he refused to stop at a border crossing and opened fire.

Two male Chinese nationals, ages 18 and 27, were found in the rear of Eckstein's truck, CBP said in a June statement.

“The CBP officers risked their own lives to protect the public from this gunman,” said Pete Flores, Director of Field Operations. “Human smuggling is always dangerous. This unfortunate incident demonstrates the total disregard smuggling organizations have for what they consider to be cargo.”

In fiscal 2018, CBP reported 794 assaults against its personnel.

Last week, a Border Patrol agent stopped a vehicle on a border highway far south of Odessa, Texas, near Dryden. According to CBP, 10 people fled the vehicle and a 22-year-old Guatemalan man attacked the agent, who fired his gun. The Guatemalan man survived his injuries.

Molly Smith contributed reporting.

Lauren Villagran covers the border and can be reached at lvillagran@elpasotimes.com.