The man wanted on a violent felony warrant who exchanged gunfire with police late Monday afternoon has been identified as 21-year-old Daniel M. Munoz of Las Cruces.

Munoz was wanted for Saturday evening’s armed robbery and shooting on Foster Road that critically injured a 51-year-old man. Las Cruces police investigators presented evidence of that incident to a Magistrate Court judge who signed the warrant for Munoz’s arrest on Sunday. The warrant charges Munoz with one count of armed robbery and one count of attempted first-degree murder. Both charges are second-degree felonies.

About 4:30 p.m. Monday, Nov. 4, Las Cruces police and agents from the U.S. Marshals Service were attempting to apprehend Munoz near Divot Avenue. During the attempted apprehension, Munoz exchanged gunfire with officers and was struck at least once. He succumbed to his injuries in the parking lot of 2301 E. Lohman Ave. Police recovered a handgun that was in his possession.

No officers were injured in the exchange of gunfire.

In Saturday’s incident, Las Cruces police learned that Munoz went to an apartment at 1002 Foster Road where he committed an armed robbery and shot a 51-year-old man multiple times. One of the rounds traveled through the floor of the victim’s apartment into a downstairs residence. The downstairs apartment was not occupied at the time, and no other injuries were reported. The victim was transported in critical condition to University Medical Center of El Paso where he remains hospitalized Tuesday.

Munoz fled the Foster Road incident before police arrived and his whereabouts were unknown until Monday when police made contact with him near Divot Avenue.

Two Las Cruces police officers were placed on standard administrative leave after Monday’s shooting. Names of the officers will not be released until the completion of the investigation.

Monday’s shooting is being investigated by the Officer-involved Incident Task Force that includes detectives from New Mexico State Police, Las Cruces Police, the Dona Ana County Sheriff’s Office and New Mexico State University Police. Once the investigation is completed, its findings will be presented to the Third Judicial District Attorney’s Office for review.

Information from Las Cruces Police