Rochester police officer Manuel "Manny" Ortiz died Saturday after he accidentally shot himself as he was driving to work, said Monroe County Sheriff Todd Baxter.

Baxter revealed details about the fatal incident at a press conference Monday morning.

Ortiz, 52, of Webster called his fianceé at 6:56 p.m. and told her he had accidentally shot himself and was driving to the hospital, Baxter said. She called 911, as did other drivers who saw the westbound SUV Ortiz was driving on Empire Boulevard drift across the center lane and into a ravine on the south side of the road. A group of passersby climbed through heavy brush to find Ortiz, who was unconscious and gravely injured.

MCSO deputies arrived at the scene by 7:03 p.m., Baxter said. Four deputies — three of whom knew and had been trained by Ortiz — applied tourniquets and carried Ortiz to the road by 7:10 pm where emergency medical crews were waiting. Ortiz was declared dead at the scene a short time later.

Baxter said Ortiz had suffered a single gunshot wound to his left thigh that struck his femoral artery.

The bullet passed through his leg and lodged in the driver's side door.

It was unclear how the shooting occurred, but Baxter said investigators determined that the gun was outside of its holster and somewhere near his waistband when it discharged. The Smith & Wesson M&P 9mm was Ortiz's personal weapon and did have a safety on it, located on the left hand side of the slide.

The gun had been re-holstered when deputies found it inside the SUV.

"We may never know how the gun went off," Baxter said. "This was a tragic accident."

Ortiz, a 22-year veteran of the Rochester Police Department, was well-known and well-loved throughout the community, both for his role as a police officer and in the Hispanic community.

"Manny meant a lot to this department and this community," said RPD Chief La'Ron Singletary. "We lost a great one. He was a giant in this department, a cop's cop, a true servant of his community."

Ortiz, who joined the Rochester Police Department in 1997, worked in the Community Affairs Bureau as a crime prevention officer. He typically worked the 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. shift, Tuesdays through Saturdays.

He leaves behind a fiancée and three children.

Details on funeral arrangements have not yet been announced.

VFREILE@Gannett.com

SLAHMAN@Gannett.com

More:Manny Ortiz remembered for his contributions to RPD and Hispanic community

More:Rochester police officer Manny Ortiz killed after car crashes into ravine on way to work