For Immediate Release

November 6, 2019



Multi-Agency Pursuit Leads to Deadly Officer-Involved Shooting

On November 5, 2019, about 9 pm, a Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office Deputy on patrol observed a white Ford Expedition traveling at 70 miles per hour in a 55 mile an hour zone. As the Deputy attempted to make a traffic stop the Expedition sped away causing a pursuit. As multiple agencies responded to assist the Deputy, the pursuit continued until the suspect vehicle was lost, but not before law enforcement officers were able to get a positive identification of the vehicle’s license plate. At 9:15 pm, a Precinct 2 Constable’s Office Deputy checked the registered address of the license plate and located the suspect vehicle at the home located in the 14400 block of Enchanted Waters Drive, Willis, Texas. The suspect was identified as 45-year-old Christopher Allan Noe, who was known to have an active felony warrant out of Harris County and caution notes indicating violent tendencies.



Officers and Deputies from multiple agencies converged on the scene and were allowed by the family to check the home for Noe, but did not locate him. Shortly after law enforcement left the home, they received information that Noe was indeed inside the home and they returned to investigate further. Law enforcement officers observed a male through a window of the home and positively identified the male as Noe. As Deputies and Officers entered the home they began giving Noe commands to surrender, at which time he produced a knife. A Taser was used but was ineffective, and then Noe began advancing toward the officers. Fearing for their safety, three officers from different agencies responded by firing their duty weapons in self-defense as Noe continued to advance toward them. MCHD medics were called to the scene at which time Noe was pronounced deceased.



This is an active investigation with representatives from multiple agencies involved, including the Texas Rangers, Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office and the Montgomery County District Attorney’s Office. Judge Wayne Mack arrived at the scene and ordered an autopsy. The officers involved in the shooting include a Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office Deputy (14-month veteran), a Panorama Village Police Officer (3-year veteran) and a Precinct 2 Constable’s Office Deputy (14-year veteran).

Information Source

Specialist Steve Squier

Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office

Administrative Services Division

Follow us on



@MCTXSheriff

Printer Friendly Version