Editor's note: A video included with this story includes graphic language and images that some viewers might find disturbing.

TWO RIVERS — A police officer says he felt threatened enough to shoot Nash Fiske when Fiske turned to exit a vehicle while holding a gun during a traffic stop at an auto shop last November. What exactly happened remains unclear, as officer bodycam footage of the shooting has been blurred out.

However, the video and 236 pages of case reports released by the Wisconsin Department of Justice Friday shed new light on the Nov. 4, 2019, stop that led to Two Rivers Police Officer Dakota Gamez shooting Fiske and killing him.

Manitowoc County District Attorney Jaclyn LaBre said in a letter to the Wisconsin Department of Justice dated Jan. 8 that a review of evidence found Gamez’s use of deadly force justified.

Based on that report, here’s what we know and don’t know about the incident. LaBre told the Herald Times Reporter she will not comment beyond statements in her letter.

Still unsaid: Why did police stop the car?

This big question is still not definitively answered.

We know Fiske was a passenger in the 2008 silver Saturn Gamez followed for a short time on Washington Street, before stopping the car in the parking lot of Sauve’s Auto Service, a repair shop and Citgo station at Washington and 15th streets.

All references about the reason for the stop — both in the police report and Gamez’s bodycam footage — were redacted by the DOJ. The Herald Times Reporter left a message with the DOJ communications department and is waiting to hear back.

Gamez told investigators he followed the car and checked its registration. "Officer Gamez stated after he learned (redacted) he continued to follow the automobile," it says.

The driver, 31-year-old William T. Langrick, told investigators that the Saturn was registered to his father, who had a suspended license.

Backup officer John Reimer said he had not seen Fiske, 30, or Langrick, 31, before. Langrick told police he was from Escanaba, Michigan, and was headed to visit his dad in Menasha. Court records show Langrick is from Fox Crossing. Langrick picked up Fiske, who had asked for a ride to Manitowoc, in Green Bay, according to the DOJ report. Neither Langrick nor Fiske had identification with them at the time of the stop, according to Gamez's body cam audio.

Gamez said he smelled raw marijuana during the stop. Reimer said he did not smell marijuana, although he couldn’t remember if the driver’s side window was rolled up or down when he approached the car.

Officers noticed a large television in the back seat (it was not registered as stolen) and more than $150 in cash in the car. Reimer said he knew they had probable cause to search the vehicle.

Fiske was silent when asked if he had weapons

Shortly before Fiske was asked to leave the car, Gamez asked if Fiske had any weapons.

"C'mon man, I'm just asking for any cooperation, OK?," Gamez says.

"Nash, can you talk to me?"

"I think it's gonna make us both feel better if you start to talk, man, because you're getting real quiet and it's not making me feel very confident."

No reply from Fiske is audible from the body camera footage. Instead, he leans his head back against the seat, then takes a swig from a drink in the center console.

He eventually tells Gamez that he's cold, to which Gamez says he knows. "I'm freezing myself."

Then, he asks Fiske to slowly step out of the car. As Fiske begins to turn toward him, the video is blurred and the sounds of gunshots are heard.

Gamez fired five times after noticing Fiske had a gun

Though it's not visible in the video, the report says that Gamez noticed Fiske had a black pistol at his left leg and in his hand.

Nash "manipulated" the gun, Gamez told investigators, though he later had difficulty recalling which hand Nash possessed the handgun in. When he saw the gun, Gamez drew his duty pistol and fired five times at Fiske, who was still in the passenger seat.

Gamez continued to ask Fiske to “show me your hands!” He said he couldn’t see Fiske’s left hand, as it had sunk into the center console and he was worried about crossfire. Video footage shows a black handgun on the pavement near the car, which Gamez identifies as the one Fiske had in his hand.

"He had a gun in his lap, he pointed it at me!" Gamez shouts to Reimer shortly after the gunshots are fired.

Fiske was taken by ambulance to Aurora Medical Center, where he later died as a result of gunshot wounds. Gamez can be heard breathing heavily in the video, and Reimer asks several times if he is OK. Gamez was not injured in the incident, and was put on administrative leave during the investigation, which is common procedure.

There were two handguns in the car

Langrick, of Fox Crossing, was charged on Nov. 8, 2019, with possession of a firearm by a felon as a repeat offender, felony possession of THC as a second or subsequent offense, felony possession of THC with intent to deliver as a second or subsequent offense, and possession of drug paraphernalia as a repeat offender. He's due in Manitowoc County Circuit Court at 1:30 p.m. Feb. 12 for a preliminary hearing on those charges.

In a criminal complaint filed in Manitowoc County Circuit Court, prosecutors alleged there were two handguns in the car. They said Fiske gave one, a black semi-automatic, to Langrick during the traffic stop. Authorities have not said if either gun was loaded.

Reimer told investigators that when he picked up the gun that was lying on the ground and racked the slide back, there was no round in the chamber.

The complaint also said police found 558 grams of marijuana in glass jars inside the vehicle, and 21 grams of marijuana in a plastic sandwich bag in the glove compartment.

A toxicology exam during an autopsy found that Fiske had methamphetamine and amphetamine in his system, and reports note that he was difficult to understand and had to repeat himself several times.

Langrick was convicted of felony cocaine possession as a repeat offender in a 2017 case in Shawano County, and misdemeanor THC possession in 2016, according to the complaint.

The DOJ report says Langrick complied when Reimer asked him to get out of the vehicle, leaving his cellphone on the dash and exiting with his hands in the air. He was not injured in the incident.

The fatal shooting reflects a slight uptick in police shootings for 2019, according to the Associated Press.

The AP says Wisconsin ended 2019 with more fatal police shootings than the year before, with the Fox Valley and northeast part of the state experiencing a spike. Police shot and killed 16 people in 2019, according to data collected by the Wisconsin Professional Police Association, the state’s largest police union. Data show police killed 13 people in Wisconsin in 2018.

Eleven of the people killed this year were white, three were black and two were Hispanic, according to the data. Census data from 2018 indicate Wisconsin’s racial demographic is about 87% white, 6% black, and 7% Hispanic or Latino.

Seven of the 16 fatal shootings happened in northeast Wisconsin and Fox Valley. Wisconsin Professional Police Association Executive Director Jim Palmer told the AP that the total number of fatal and nonfatal shootings has been relatively stable, and that of the 28 fatal and nonfatal police shootings through late November 2019, 26 involved an armed suspect.

Contact reporter Patti Zarling at 920-686-2152 or send an email to pzarling@gannett.com.

RELATED: