LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WAVE) - Jefferson County Commonwealth’s Attorney Tom Wine announced Wednesday that the LMPD officers involved in the shooting death of Shelby Gazaway will not face charges.

Gazaway was involved in an altercation with another person inside a Kroger store in the Portland neighborhood on Nov. 7, 2019. He then allegedly fired several shots inside of the store before firing at officers upon leaving the store, prompting them to shoot back and kill him.

“The officers acted both within the dictates of (state law) as well as the LMPD’s Standard Operating Procedures,” Wine wrote in his ruling. “Therefore, based on the applicable statute and policies of LMPD, it is my belief that the officers were justified in using deadly physical force against Mr. Gazaway and no charge, either felony or misdemeanor, will be sought, nor will this matter be presented to the Jefferson County Grand Jury.”

In a nine-page report released by the Commonwealth’s Attorney office, Wine states two different pole cameras in the parking lot captured some of Gazaway’s actions, including Gazaway raising his right arm and pointing toward officers involved, identified as Patrick Norton and Alexander Dugan.

In the document, a TARC driver, who was shopping at the time, said he saw Gazaway fire a shot inside of the store. Once outside, he heard officers’ commands to drop a gun and said he saw muzzle flashes from the direction opposite of the officers. Another witness in the parking lot stated Gazaway shot three or four times toward where officers were positioned.

Norton’s body camera showed Gazaway raise his right arm and point toward Norton, according to the report. On audio captured by the body camera, both officers can be heard asking Gazaway to “drop the gun” and an exchange of gunfire.

Additional officers arrived at the scene and went to render aid to Gazaway. When they rolled him over a Glock semi-automatic was found under his body, according to the report.

During the investigation, two gouge marks caused by projectiles were found on a brick pillar where one of the officers was positioned.

The report states from the time of the elapsed from the altercation in the store to the time Gazaway was shot and killed was four-and-a-half-minutes.

Copyright 2020 WAVE 3 News. All rights reserved.