Three police pursuits in Calhoun County ended Thursday with two people in custody and a third dying by suicide.

Battle Creek police said a 26-year-old Ceresco man shot himself after leading officers on a pursuit from Battle Creek's north side to his family home in Ceresco.

Officers attempted to stop the man about 5:57 p.m. for having a stolen license plate on his pickup truck.

The man pulled into the Citgo gas station at 424 Capital Ave. N.E. at McKinley Avenue. He told officers he had just dropped off some homeless people at a home on South Wabash Street.

Officers opened the door of the truck and told the man to step out of the truck but instead he pulled the door closed and drove away.

Officers said the man drove east on Capital Avenue and then south on Division Street and south on Interstate-194 at speeds of nearly 90 miles per hour.

Police said the man then drove east on E Drive South and south on Six-Mile Road and then pulled into a residence he shares with his parents in the 7000 block of H Drive South.

The two officers in the patrol car said they approached the pickup but found the man had shot himself in the head. A handgun was in his lap.

He was taken to Bronson Battle Creek and then to Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo where he died early Friday.

Two other pursuits unrelated

Two other pursuits at about the same time on Thursday, which police said were not connected, were reported by Battle Creek police and the Calhoun County Sheriff Department and ended with arrests.

Battle Creek police reported at 3:29 p.m. they attempted to stop a driver in a stolen car in a parking lot at 20th Street and Columbia Avenue.

Officers had unsuccessfully attempted to stop the same stolen car on Wednesday near Riverside Drive and Territorial Road about 3:55 p.m. but the driver eluded them after the patrol car had a flat tire.

When police pulled up to the car on Thursday a passenger got out and the driver sped away. The driver fled on Territorial Road about 70 mph and then traveled on Capital Avenue Southwest, Riverside Drive, Golden Avenue and 6 1/2 Mile Road.

The car stopped at 6 1/2 Mile Road and B Drive North and a second passenger got out and the car sped away.

New today:Calhoun Community High School placed on lockdown after teen found with replica handgun

Police & Fire:Semi fire reported on Interstate 94

Police said they lost sight of the car in Marshall and ended the pursuit but a Michigan State Police trooper later saw the car and along with a deputy from the sheriff department the car was stopped at B Drive North and 23-Mile Road.

The driver, 23, from Battle Creek, was arrested on charges of fleeing from police and possession of a stolen vehicle.

He told officers he didn't stop the day before because "he had better things to do and did not have time to stop."

He also told officers he had permission to have the car but the owner was contacted and confirmed it was stolen.

In the third Thursday pursuit, sheriff deputies arrested one man but said Friday they still are looking for the driver.

Deputies said they attempted to stop a car for speeding on 23-Mile Road and Division Drive in Marengo Township about 3:30 p.m.

The driver fled in the pickup truck and drove it into a field but became stuck. Both people in the truck fled on foot into some woods.

The driver was able to steal another pickup and flee before officers could establish a perimeter and he has not been found.

The passenger, 27, from Quincy, hid in a travel trailer at a residence and refused to come out and then resisted the officers and a police dog when he was taken into custody.

He told deputies that they had come to Albion, driving the truck stolen from Indiana, to buy drugs before deputies tried to stop them.

Anyone with information is asked to call the sheriff department.

Deputies were assisted by the Albion Department of Public Safety, the Michigan State Police and the Battle Creek Police Department.

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com Follow him on Twitter: @TSChristenson