Update, 3 p.m. Friday: The man who officials say drove the stolen car that led to a high-speed chase and fatal crash in Anderson was charged with second-degree murder on Friday in Shasta County court.

The driver, who Anderson police identified as Derreck Gary Tope, had his bail set at $1.2 million in connection to the crash that killed 21-year-old Ethan George Purdy.

Tope entered a not guilty plea, according to computerized court records. He was appointed a public defender, Eugene Shvetsky.

Other charges against Tope include vehicle theft, fleeing an officer and false imprisonment.

Original story: A high-speed car chase in Anderson ended in a violent crash, the death of a passenger and the arrest of the driver on Wednesday.

Anderson police identified the driver as Derreck Gary Tope, 28, according to a statement released by the department. Tope was arrested on suspicion of several charges, including homicide, as police believe his passenger died as a result of the crash.

On Thursday, the Shasta County Coroner's Office identified the man who died as 21-year-old Ethan George Purdy of Redding. Purdy suffered major injuries as a result of the crash and was pronounced dead at Mercy Medical Center, according to police.

The incident began about 7:20 a.m. Wednesday when officers learned of a stolen vehicle that was heading south on Highway 273 in Anderson. When officers signaled the car to pull over, the vehicle sped away, according to police.

From there, the black Honda Civic went to the Shasta Gateway Center. As officers tried to stop the car, it began turning in circles in the parking lot, "causing public safety concerns due to the populated shopping center," the release stated.

Next, the car turned onto Interstate 5 at "a high rate of speed." As the vehicle neared the first Cottonwood exit, the driver lost control and the car went over an embankment, causing it to flip over into some brush near Rhonda Road.

Officers provided first aid to the three people who were in the car. One of the passengers, identified as a woman, was taken to the hospital, treated and released.

The other passenger, identified as a man, was taken to the hospital but died of his injuries as a result of the "violent crash," according to police.

After being treated for injuries, Tope was awaiting booking into the Shasta County Jail on suspicion of multiple charges, including homicide, evading officers with no regard to safety, false imprisonment, being in possession of a stolen vehicle and other potential charges.

On Monday, Tope had been charged with felony vehicle theft, according to Shasta County court records.

Also in December of 2018, Tope pleaded guilty to receiving a stolen vehicle and was ordered to serve six months of jail time.

Wednesday's incident remains under investigation by the California Highway Patrol and Anderson Police Department.

Reader note: This story has been updated to include a description of the car that police believe to be stolen.

More:530 Crime Watch: Detained woman rushed to hospital, survives and is released

More:See this movie at the Cascade and raise money for local homeless vets

Matt Brannon covers politics, the criminal justice system and breaking news for the Record Searchlight. Follow him on Twitter @MattBrannon_RS. Support local coverage and keep up with the North State for as little as $1 a month. Subscribe today.