LINCOLN COUNTY, N.C. — The sheriff's office said a man has died after a deputy-involved shooting in Lincoln County Friday night.

Officials said deputies responded to a home just after 5:30 p.m. on Westdale Lane off Buffalo Shoals Road in Lincolnton, where 38-year-old Ray Correll was in the front yard holding a gun to his head.

[ALSO READ: Deputies: Disgruntled customer fired shots at auto repair shop owner]

The man threatened deputies and fired shots into the ground. Authorities said he pointed the handgun at the officers and rushed at them, and they returned fire.

"He refused to put the gun down," Sheriff Bill Beam said. "He kept shouting for the officers to shoot him, which they did not, and they were in fairly close proximity before they had to shoot."

One man is killed in an officer involved shooting in Lincoln County near Boger City. Sheriff Bill Beam told me the 38 yo man was suicidal & had a gun to his head when deputies arrived on Westdale Lane. He fired shots in the ground & charged officers pointing the gun. They fired. pic.twitter.com/G201Q2AWNQ — Ken (@kenlemonWSOC9) November 9, 2019

Beam said his officers are trained to deescalate out of control situations, but the man rushed toward the officers and was a short distance from them when he was shot.

The man's family told Channel 9 he was dealing with depression.

>> Reading this story in our app? The new "Follow the Lead" feature allows you to tap the blue tag indicated with a '+' to subscribe to alerts on the very latest breaking news updates.

The SBI and the sheriff's office will continue to investigate to make sure deputies followed policy. The Three deputies involved were placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure.

"Our condolences go out to the family of man who died," Beam said. "It's a tragedy, not only a tragedy for them but a tragedy for my officers because they will have to live with this for the rest of their days in their law enforcement career."

No deputies were injured.

This is an ongoing investigation. Check back with wsoctv.com for more information.

Read more top trending stories on wsoctv.com:

Cox Media Group