A St. Helens police officer was justified in using his patrol car to ram and kill a man who shot at a gas station, tried to carjack two people and sprayed bullets at motorists, the Columbia County district attorney said Tuesday.

District Attorney Jeff Auxier said he has closed criminal investigations into the Oct. 9 police confrontation with Michael Veatch, 34, and would take no further action.

“My final conclusion is that police were overwhelmingly justified in their decision to use deadly force in this case, because Veatch was actively trying to kill innocent civilians,” Auxier wrote in a statement.

Veatch shot into a St. Helens gas station and led officers on a chase along U.S. 30 before getting out of his car and shooting at drivers, police said.

Officer Elijah Merkwan intentionally struck Veatch with his patrol car and immediately called for an ambulance. At the time, Merkwan and St. Helens Sgt. Matthew Molden were the only police officers on duty for the entire county and both responded to the scene, the district attorney wrote in his report. Both were placed on adminstrative leave following Veatch’s death.

Auxier said a medical examiner conducted an autopsy, but hasn’t released the official cause of death. He said initial reports showed that Veatch was struck by the car, propelled forward and died from the impact.

Veatch’s partner, Savannah Eastman, told The Oregonian/OregonLive in October that Veatch had called her that morning and “sounded scared,” as if he didn’t know where he was and as if he may have been under the influence of drugs. Eastman said it would have been out of character for Veatch to be using drugs, but said she knew he had been drinking the previous night at a friend’s house in Scappoose.

The encounter began around 5:30 a.m., when police responded to reports that a man, later identified as Veatch, had shown up at the St. Helens Chevron gas station, parked his truck and went into a restricted area between the food mart and a storage shed.

Auxier’s report said a store employee told Veatch he wasn’t allowed in that area and Veatch told him that he was looking for his cat, which had apparently had jumped out of his truck.

Veatch came into the store a few minutes later, pointed a handgun at the employee’s chest and yelled, “I’m looking for my (expletive) cat”. Veatch left the store and drove away, but employees and witnesses heard several gunshots and glass shattering.

Surveillance video captured Veatch threatening the employee and firing the gun, Auxier said.

The report said Veatch fired more gunshots near McBride Elementary School on Columbia Boulevard in St. Helens, then shot at a witness who followed Veatch in his car. Police found shell casings in the area and bullet holes in the witness’ car.

Merkwan and Molden followed Veatch and were able to catch up with him as he reached the highway. Merkwan followed him at a safe distance, until Veatch’s truck, which was emitting a lot of smoke and was missing a rear passenger tire, stopped in the middle of U.S. 30 north of Deer Island.

Veatch got out of the truck and began running on the west side of the highway, according to the report. Merkwan couldn’t see him through the smoke, but soon heard multiple gunshots. Police later learned Veach had tried to carjack and shoot two people. According to interviews with the victims, Veach pointed guns at both of them and fired rounds into their cars as they drove away.

In an interview with Oregon State Police investigators, Merkwan said he saw Veatch “walking intently” toward a car that was stopped on the opposite side of the highway. Merkwan said he didn’t think shooting Veatch was a viable option because he believed driving closer to Veatch, getting out of his car and getting his gun would take too much time and leave Veatch with enough time to get closer to the other car and shoot the driver.

Merkwan also said he was worried that there were other cars stopped behind Veatch, and if he missed his shot, the bullet could hit an innocent person. He decided instead to strike Veatch with his car.

The district attorney’s report said Merkwan handcuffed Veatch, immediately called for an ambulance, then checked for a pulse and began CPR. Veatch died at the scene.

While Merkwan and Molden were trying to revive Veatch, his brother arrived at the scene and got out of his car despite police demands that he stay inside, according to the report. The two officers continued trying to help Veatch even though his brother threatened them, the report said.

Police found several guns inside Veatch’s truck, including an AK-47, two shotguns, and several magazines and cartridges.

According to the district attorney’s report, Veatch was the suspect in a Sept. 6 drive-by shooting in Beaverton, which injured one person and killed a dog. Veatch’s former boss also reported that on Sept. 25, Veatch broke into his truck and stole multiple items, including a handgun similar to the one found near Veatch’s body.

—Jayati Ramakrishnan; 503-221-4320; jramakrishnan@oregonian.com; @JRamakrishnanOR

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.