Larimer County District Attorney Cliff Riedel has ruled that three Loveland police officers were justified in fatally shooting homicide suspect Tammy Pierce in her west Loveland home last month.

In his findings released Friday, Riedel wrote that the officers, previously identified as Paul Ashe, Mat Grashorn and Phil Metzler, feared for their lives and that less lethal force was attempted before Pierce grabbed a .38-caliber revolver and shot Ashe, prompting the three officers to fatally shoot her.

Pierce, 59, was shot and killed on Nov. 11 by the Loveland Police SWAT Team members, who responded to her home near Mehaffey Park to investigate a reported homicide. An adult man, identified as 60-year-old Samuel Harding, was found dead in the garage.

New information regarding Harding's death and the police shooting was released in Riedel's opinion letter Friday, including that Harding was likely shot three to five days prior to Pierce's confrontation with police.

On the morning of the police shooting, Harding's mother, Margaret, called Loveland police with concerns that her son had been murdered by Pierce, his wife. Harding's mother told police that Pierce had called her three days prior and indicated that she had killed Harding.

Harding's mother told police there were guns and a dog in the couple's house, located at 3376 Cuchara Court. Police went to the house that morning for a welfare check, but no one responded.

At approximately 7:20 p.m., Loveland officer Scott Walker went to the residence for a second check. When he was unable to contact anyone at the front door, he walked around the exterior of the house, knocking on doors and looking in windows. He noticed an unlocked entry into the garage and looked inside, where he saw a man lying on the floor with what appeared to be multiple gunshot wounds.

Walker determined the man, later identified as Harding, was deceased for "a period of time," according to Riedel's opinion letter.

Due to concerns an armed suspect or other victims might be in the home, six members of the Loveland SWAT team responded to the house, arriving at 8:45 p.m.

In an interview with investigators, Ashe, the lead officer on the team, said he "knocked three times very loudly" on the front door and announced the police presence twice but got no response — other than a dog barking — before SWAT officers forcibly opened the door.

Prior to entering the home, Ashe looked inside the front door but told investigators he did not see any people. He did see a bulldog sitting the house and heard what he believed to be a woman, later identified as Pierce, moaning. He said he heard her say, “I am already dead.’’

Metzler told investigators he heard Pierce also say, “Kill me, kill me.’’

At the time, the officers didn't know if she was an armed suspect involved in the death of the man in the garage or a victim. According to Riedel's letter, Ashe ordered Pierce: "Come out. Let us see your hands. Come out."

She remained hidden, but Ashe saw a black revolver tossed onto the floor. Still outside the door, he saw a hand being raised from an individual crouched and still obscured from view. He commanded Pierce to show her hands, but she wouldn't raise her left hand.

Grashorn told investigators he remembers hearing Ashe pleading with the woman, saying, "Don’t grab that gun. Don’t grab that gun. Please don’t get that gun."

Pierce started to crawl on her hands and knees toward the pistol and was within reach of the pistol when Metzler released a police K-9.

However, the dog did not engage the woman and she continued toward the pistol. As Ashe attempted to disengage the safety on his police rifle, Pierce grabbed the pistol and fired one shot.

Ashe entered the home and while still trying to disengage his rifle’s safety, he saw Pierce point the pistol at him and fire. He felt the bullet strike his tactical helmet.

"If it had not been for the ballistic helmet, which Officer Ashe was wearing, Office Ashe would have been killed or seriously injured," Riedel wrote.

Still unable to disengage his safety, Ashe pulled out his 9 mm semiautomatic pistol and shot at Pierce multiple times. He said he heard other officers firing and then heard someone call for a ceasefire. Shortly thereafter, Ashe was removed from the home for medical attention. He was not seriously injured.

It was determined that Ashe, Grashorn and Metzler fired their weapons at Pierce. The other three SWAT officers involved in the incident did not fire their weapons.

Harding's autopsy revealed multiple gunshot wounds from a .38-caliber pistol. The bullets matched those shot at the officers as well as unfired ammunition found in the home.

"Based on these findings as well as several messages Tammy Pierce sent to family members," investigators concluded that Pierce shot Harding with the gun sometime between Nov. 6 and Nov. 8.

"I find that Ms. Tammy Pierce committed the only criminal offenses during this incident," Riedel wrote in his opinion Friday. "Had she survived, enough evidence exists to have charged Ms. Pierce with multiple felony offenses," including first-degree murder, multiple counts of attempted first-degree murder and multiple counts of felony menacing with a deadly weapon.

The Eighth Judicial District Critical Incident Response Team, or CIRT, handled the investigation into both Harding's death and the police shooting that killed Pierce, with Larimer County Sheriff's Office serving as the lead investigating agency.

CIRT includes investigators from law-enforcement agencies across the judicial district and is mandated by Colorado law to investigate "an incident involving the discharge of a firearm by a peace officer that resulted in injury or death."

Read more about how the Critical Incident Response Team investigates police shootings in Larimer County in this story.

There have been six police shootings so far this year. There was one in 2018, five in 2017, and three in both 2015 and 2016, according to Coloradoan records.

Miles Blumhardt looks for stories that impact your life — be it news, outdoors, sports, you name it he wants to report it. Have a story idea, send it his way. Email him at milesblumhardt@coloradoan.com or find him on Twitter at @MilesBlumhardt.