>> Video: Chief Susan Ballard gives update on Kapolei officer-involved shooting

Five Honolulu Police Department plainclothes officers fired about 20 rounds in all, killing a 30-year-old man who was wanted in a rash of armed robberies and possible carjackings, police Chief Susan Ballard said today.

Michael Kahalehoe died at the scene. He had a handgun in his waist band, Ballard said.

His suspected accomplice, Melvin Spillner, 24, tried to run away but was captured and later treated for minor injuries, Ballard said.

Kahalehoe and Spillner are “possible suspects” in a rash of recent carjacking and “they are definitely the suspects in multiple armed robberies that have been occurring on this island since Nov. 3.”

CrimeStoppers earlier Tuesday issued an alert for both men, along with a third suspect, Victor Gascon III, 25, who remains wanted for failing to comply with the terms and conditions of his probation.

Plainclothes officers from HPD’s Special Enforcement Detail and Crime Reduction Unit were in unmarked vehicles when they spotted the vehicle that Kahalehoe was driving and followed it into the Shell gas station in Kapolei at 577 Farrington Highway around 10:30 p.m.

Spillner was gassing up the vehicle and tried to run away, but was stopped, Ballard said.

Kahalehoe drove “back and forth in an attempt to leave the gas station” and struck a police vehicle while “grazing” one of the officers, Ballard said.

“Fearing for their own lives and that of their fellow officers,” five officers began firing, she said.

The officers have between five years and 17 years of experience on the force and have been offered three days of administrative leave, Ballard said.

Kahalehoe had 17 convictions, including six felony convictions for vehicle break ins, vehicle theft, drugs and weapons violations. Spillner has six convictions, including four felony convictions for vehicle break ins and vehicle thefts.

Police are also looking for the female driver of a black Honda that was at the gas station.