Ed Balint

ed.balint@cantonrep.com

CARROLLTON A Carroll County sheriff’s deputy has been indicted in the fatal shooting of a Carrolton man following a traffic stop last year.

A grand jury charged Jacob Baker with voluntary manslaughter in an indictment issued Wednesday in Carroll County Common Pleas Court.

Robert Sikon III, 41, died after being shot multiple times in the back on Nov. 16, 2019.

Canton City Prosecutor Jason Reese was appointed to handle the case.

Reese declined comment late Wednesday afternoon because he was awaiting confirmation that Baker had been formally notified of the indictment.

No hearings had been set yet in the case and no attorney was listed for Baker, according to court records.

If convicted, Baker, 29, faces a sentence of three to 11 years in prison on the voluntary manslaughter charge.

Baker had been a deputy with the Carroll County Sheriff’s Office for 15 months prior to the shooting. Before that, he had worked for a year as a Carrollton village police officer.

He had been on paid administrative leave since the shooting, but is no longer on paid leave, Carroll County Sheriff Dale Williams said. He declined to elaborate on Baker’s employment status or comment on the indictment.

Ohio law says voluntary manslaughter occurs when under the influence of sudden passion or a sudden fit of rage brought on by the victim, the defendant is incited to use deadly force following a serious provocation.

’No reason to put a bullet in him’

Williams had said the incident happened at 11:43 a.m. at Waynesburg and Arrow roads.

Following the shooting, he confirmed his deputy was involved, but referred further questions to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation.

The BCI looked into Sikon’s death as a deputy-involved shooting.

Sikon’s fiancee, Jami Marcus Vinka, recounted the traffic stop during an interview with The Canton Repository in the fall of 2019.

She said she was driving to her Amsterdam home with Sikon by her side when a sheriff’s deputy pulled her over for a reason that remained unclear to her. Moments later, she said, her fiancee was dead.

She accused the deputy of yanking Sikon from the truck and slamming him against it. She said Sikon continued to ask why the deputy was being so rough and, when the deputy struggled to place handcuffs on him, Sikon ran away.

Vinka said the deputy went after him and then she heard several gunshots.

“There was no reason to put a bullet in him,” she had told the newspaper. “There was no reason to shoot him at all. We didn’t even know why (the deputy) stopped us.”

She said a deputy she knew told her officers were “tipped off” about Sikon’s location, and there was an outstanding child support warrant.

Court records showed a child support warrant was issued Sept. 25, 2019.

Child support warrant

Sikon’s daughters commented on the case during the same interview.

“My dad and the police have had run-ins for child support multiple times,” Melissa Ford said. “Carrollton police and the sheriff’s office have had a hatred toward my dad for a long time. My dad was never a committer of violent crimes. He never fought the police. He would just run away.”

Natalie Sikon, added, “He was a family man.”

“My dad got murdered for a child support warrant?” she asked through tears. “There are so many unanswered questions.”

Lawsuit filed

In late March, Sikon’s father and eldest daughter filed a wrongful death lawsuit in federal court, naming the sheriff, Baker and the county as defendants.

The case is pending in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.

A judge issued a stay in the case — meaning no hearings or court actions would take place — until the BCI’s investigation and Reese’s review were completed.

Attorneys representing Sikon’s family could not be reached for comment Wednesday afternoon regarding the criminal indictment.

The suit seeks relief “against Baker for wrongful death, excessive force, deliberate indifference to serious medical needs, assault and battery and emotional distress,” according to the court filing.

Sikon was running away, was unarmed, and posed no danger or threat to anyone, imminent or otherwise,” the lawsuit says.

Repository reporter Lori Steineck contributed to this article.

Reach Ed at 330-580-8315

and ed.balint@cantonrep.com

On Twitter @ebalintREP