A Jefferson County deputy shot and killed a man Thursday night after a series of car crashes that included a car jacking and stealing a patrol car, authorities said. His family said the man had a "psychiatric breakdown."

Sheriff Peter Walker said "late morning, early afternoon" Thursday, Cameron Bennett "caused a disturbance at the family home," stole a car from the house and "caused quite a bit of damage" while leaving.

Bennett, 22, was at the junction of Highway 33 and Main Street when he discharged a weapon. Walker declined to say what kind of weapon Bennett used and "had no idea" why he fired while driving. He then veered off to Highway 28, traveling east until he crashed and his vehicle rolled over.

Drivers stopped to help, one was carjacked

Drivers who saw the wreck stopped to help. Bennett got out of the wrecked vehicle with his gun drawn and carjacked one of the good Samaritans.

He continued traveling east on Highway 28 until he crashed again, this time veering off the road into the trees. He got out of the car and went into the woods.

A Jefferson County deputy arrived on scene — the first time law enforcement had made contact with Bennett that day — and "encountered him in the woodline," Walker said.

According to Walker, the deputy tried to get Bennett to comply but he would not and became "aggressive" as he exited the woods, "constantly approaching her." Somehow, he said, Bennett managed to get between the deputy and her patrol car and got inside the vehicle.

Driving, Bennett then "came in her direction."

"She was forced to discharge her weapon," Walker said, striking and killing Bennett. He was pronounced dead on the scene.

Walker was the second to respond, he said, and arrived shortly after the shooting. Jefferson County deputies do not wear body cameras.

Per protocol, the deputy has been placed on administrative leave. Walker said the deputy is OK physically but the department is working together to "help her get through this ordeal."

Man was enrolled at a local college, just marked 22nd birthday, family says

Walker said law enforcement had not been called to the home previously but he not only knows Bennett's family, his father is a retired state trooper.

"It's very hard," he said.

Bennett celebrated his birthday two weeks ago. His brother, Charles Bennett, told WAPT-TV "he just flipped out. We're still trying to figure it out, put the pieces together."

Bennett was enrolled at a local community college, Charles Bennett said, adding, "between last week and now, something happened.

"'I'm feeling as if it was something else, maybe with the wrong crowd on campus."

"I understand the matters at play here, but I just want it to be known that my brother was experiencing more of a psychiatric breakdown," he told the station.

Bennett's body has been sent to the state crime lab in Pearl for autopsy.

The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation is investigating the incident. Per department policy, MBI does not release the names of law enforcement involved in a shooting.

Do you want to stay informed on more topics like this one? Subscribe to the digital Clarion Ledger.

Contact Sarah Fowler at 601-961-7303 or sfowler@gannett.com. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.