CLEVELAND, Ohio – A homicide suspect was holding a shotgun when a Cleveland officer fired a fatal gunshot in the driveway of an East Side home, the head of the department’s police union said.

The officer shot Mark Sheppard outside a home on East 142nd Street near Bartlett Avenue, Cleveland Police Patrolmen’s Association President Jeff Follmer said Friday afternoon. Sheppard and the officer’s partner did not fire any shots during the incident, Follmer added.

Sheppard, 27, was pronounced dead at the scene, according to the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner.

The officer and his partner, whose names have not been released, are on restricted duty as the Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office investigates the deadly shooting. One of the officers joined the police department in November 2018, and the other in September 2016, Cleveland police Sgt. Jennifer Ciaccia said.

Follmer said the officer who joined the department a year ago shot Sheppard.

Investigators identified Sheppard as a suspect in a deadly shooting that happened just before 11:45 p.m. Thursday at a Liberty gas station on Kinsman Road near East 145th Street. Officers found a man with a gunshot to the face, police said.

An ambulance took him to University Hospitals, where he was pronounced dead. The medical examiner has not yet released the man’s name.

Two officers searched the area when they found Sheppard, who matched the description of the suspect in the gas station shooting, Follmer said.

Sheppard was holding a shotgun when he emerged from behind a home. He raised the shotgun before the officer shot him, Follmer said.

Follmer could not immediately say whether Sheppard pointed the shotgun at the officers, and said he needed to review body camera video. Cleveland.com has requested copies of the body camera footage from the city, and the city has yet to respond to that request.

Cleveland police and the county sheriff’s department have not released any additional information about the shooting.

Sheppard’s criminal history includes a pair of domestic violence-related convictions, according Cuyahoga County court records.

In 2018, he pleaded guilty to attempted domestic violence after he attacked a woman in Cleveland, according to court records. He also pleaded guilty in 2014 to attacking a woman in front of a 2-year-old child, court records say.

The incident was the first deadly shooting involving Cleveland police since January 2018, when an officer moonlighting as a security guard fatally shot a man outside a University Circle bowling alley, Ciaccia said.

A grand jury declined to charge Sgt. Dean Graziolli with a crime after he fatally shot Thomas Yatsko in that incident.

To comment on this story, visit Friday’s crime and courts comments page.