UPDATE DEC. 9: Henderson police released body camera footage from November's shooting that involved police officers and an armed robbery suspect on Warm Springs Road.

A portion of the video shows the suspect, 18-year-old Kenneth Simeus Jr., and officers exchanging gunfire. The officers were not injured in the incident, but Simeus died at a local hospital from the shooting.

A 35-year-old man was also taken to the hospital after police located him inside the Pizza Hut at 1280 W. Warm Springs Road. The victim was found with a gunshot wound to the chest but was later stable at the hospital.

Henderson police said the 18-year-old fired five shots at officers with authorities finding two 9mm handguns at the scene.

*Note: The video is considered graphic

UPDATE NOV. 22: Henderson police have identified the officers involved in the Nov. 20 shooting as Officer Cody Watts and Officer Robert Hennebeul. Officer Watts has been employed with the Henderson Police Department since February of 2015 and is currently assigned to the Field Operations Bureau. Officer Hennebeul has been employed with the Henderson Police Department since September of 2012 and is currently assigned to the Field Operations Bureau. Both officers have been placed on paid administrative leave.

UPDATE NOV. 22: The Clark County coroner has identified the robbery suspect shot by Henderson police on Nov. 20 as 18-year-old Kenneth Simeus Jr. of Henderson.

UPDATE NOV. 21: Henderson police say the suspect in Wednesday night's restaurant shooting has died.

Police say they responded to the restaurant in reference to a panic alarm coming from the freezer of a fast-food restaurant. Officers found a 35-year-old employee with a gunshot in the freezer. The employee was transferred to Sunrise Hospital in critical condition. At last check, the employee was stable.

Witnesses at the scene directed officers to the area where the suspected shooter was last seen. They were able to find the suspect, who immediately began firing at them. Henderson police responded with deadly force.

The 18-year-old suspect was transported to Sunrise Hospital, where he died from his injuries. Although police have not identified the suspect, they say he was a primary suspect in several armed commercial robberies.

This is the 5th officer-involved shooting for Henderson.

ORIGINAL STORY

HENDERSON (KTNV) -- Police in Henderson are investigating after a shooting involving two officers on Wednesday night following a suspected armed robbery at a nearby restaurant.

Officers responded to a 911 call near Warm Springs Road and Marks Street shortly after 7 p.m. and found an employee had been shot in the chest, according to police. He was transported to the hospital in unknown condition.

INTERACTIVE MAP: Shootings involving Las Vegas valley police officers | 2019

Authorities did not immediately disclose the name of the restaurant where the shooting took place.

Road closures remain in effect in the area and are not expected to reopen for several hours as police investigate.

Watch the full police update:

Responding officers then found the suspect outside the business on Warm Springs after gathering information from witnesses.

Authorities say the suspect was armed and another shooting occurred involving two Henderson police officers.

That suspect was shot and transported to the hospital in unknown condition.

This is the fifth shooting involving the Henderson Police Department for the year.

The incident remains under investigation.

This is a developing story, check back for updates.

Read more Las Vegas breaking news for Nov. 20, 2019

Area near the shooting: