KENT COUNTY, MI – The fatal police shooting of Steven Saucier followed a strange, senseless series of events.

That’s based on the details unveiled Thursday by the prosecutor who ruled the sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed Saucier was justified in his actions.

In late November, Saucier, 34, armed with a .45-caliber revolver, was fatally shot at his Caledonia home. His bizarre behavior before he was killed could only be explained by drunkenness, Kent County Prosecutor Chris Becker said.

In expletive-laced calls to 911, an angry Saucier told dispatchers he was armed and demanded that police respond to his home. Soon after police showed up, Saucier pushed a deputy to the ground and was shot while he pointed his gun at the deputy.

Becker on Thursday, Jan. 9, said that Deputy James Davis, who was armed with a shotgun, was justified in killing Saucier.

Saucier’s actions that night were uncharacteristic, even after drinking, according to witnesses. His wife, Megan, told police she had never seen him act that way.

Becker released in-car police video, video captured inside the Sauciers’ home as well as recordings of multiple calls to 911 as part of his findings in the fatal shooting.

Little leading up to the violent episode on Nov. 24 made sense. Saucier, his wife and her friend went to a couple of bars. The friend was thrown out of a bar for being too drunk. Around that time, she suffered an unexplained head injury.

Once they got home, the bleeding appeared to irritate Saucier. His wife took her to the hospital. The friend’s parents showed up at Saucer’s house to get their daughter’s belongings. He fought with both of them then called 911. Soon, he was dead.

10 1 / 10 Prosecutor: Kent County sheriff's deputy justified in fatal shooting

Here are details that Becker provided in finding the deputy was justified in fatally shooting Saucier.

The night started with the couple and her friend going to a Dave and Buster’s for a few hours before they returned to the Sauciers’ home at 4600 100th Street SE.

Around 10:25 p.m., they went to Family Tavern in Caledonia. They returned to the Sauciers’ around 1:15 a.m. after the friend was asked to leave Family Tavern.

They noticed the friend’s head was bleeding. Megan Saucier did not know what happened. The friend had no clear explanation. No one at the bar that night had seen anything unusual.

Megan Saucier, who was not intoxicated, gave her friend new clothes and talked about taking her to the hospital. Then, Steven Saucier and the friend started to argue. The reason for the dispute is unclear.

“In the end, Steven seemed to be angry about her bleeding in his house. He ordered her to get out of his house.”

His wife took her to the hospital.

Saucier stayed home and drank, video showed.

For no apparent reason, he called 911. In a “rambling call,” Saucier said his wife and friend were at Metro Health Hospital and he wanted to “let the authorities know about the situation at the house,” Becker wrote.

The dispatcher said they did not work for the hospital. Saucier said, “OK,” and hung up, the prosecutor said.

The friend, meanwhile, “suddenly became paranoid” at the hospital. She called Megan Saucier a “con artist” and blamed her for her injuries. The friend ran away and refused treatment. She had an Uber on the way. Megan Saucier went home.

The friend called her parents in Eaton Rapids. She said she was beaten with a baseball bat but wasn’t making sense. The parents got to the Sauciers’ house as their daughter showed up. Saucier saw an unknown car in the driveway and called 911 at 3:57 a.m.

The friend’s mother knocked at the door. He pushed her into the bushes. He fought her father before he got bit in the hand.

His wife called 911 at 4:07. Steven Saucier screamed, “You had better get the … here right now!”

The friend’s mother called 911 at the same time.

In his last 911 call, at 4:10 a.m., Saucier was “extremely belligerent,” Becker said.

When a dispatcher asked why he had a gun, Saucier responded: “Because I’m a … American … and you better get here. I’ve got someone coming in my house, and I swear to God if you come in my house and I’m going to blow you the … out of it.”

Becker wrote: “In short, the call was a profanity laden tirade; Steven was clearly intoxicated, clearly belligerent, and the call ends abruptly.”

Davis, the deputy who fired the fatal gunshot, and Deputy Elizabeth Donovan got to the residence at 4:12 a.m.

Police knocked on the window. They did not identify themselves as police but Megan Saucier is heard on video saying, “’It’s the police. It’s the police, put the gun down. Steven, put the gun down!’ He does not put the gun down,” Becker said.

She continues to tell him that police are outside. In-car video showed him open the door and push Donovan to the ground. He held the gun in “low-ready” position. Donovan said the gun was pointed at her. She ordered him to drop the gun.

Davis, with a shotgun, told Saucier to "'show me your hands,’ just after Deputy Donovan yelled at Steven to drop it,” Becker wrote.

“He then fired a single shot from his shotgun which struck Steven on the left side and knocked him back inside the home,” Becker wrote.

Megan Saucier screamed, “Oh my God,” video showed. Her husband died at the scene.

Becker said his blood-alcohol level was 0.22 percent, or nearly three times the level deemed intoxicated for driving.

Becker said Davis acted to protect Donovan.

“Deputy Davis did not have the luxury of waiting to see what was going to happen next. He saw the gun was pointed at his partner,” Becker wrote.

A few minutes later, in a phone call captured on in-car video, Davis was asked who fired the fatal shot.

“I did. He pointed a revolver at Ellie, and I shot him in the chest with a shotgun.”

Donovan said Davis saved her life.

Becker said: “This was an inconceivable tragedy; how does a night out with friends end in the death of one of these individuals? Clearly, the overconsumption of alcohol played a major role. Deputy Davis and Donovan were faced with an extremely hostile, drunk, and armed man … . There is no requirement under Michigan law that Deputy Davis needed to wait for his partner to be shot before he could take action.”