MANSFIELD, Ohio — A Mansfield man was shot and killed in an officer-involved shooting on Wednesday after he brandished a sword, which escalated to a deadly confrontation, according to a release from the Mansfield Police Department.

On Wednesday at around 5:46 a.m., police received a call from residents at 275 Poplar Street about a man who broke their apartment window after causing a loud disturbance outside of their apartment.

When officers arrived, they attempted to make contact with the man, who was in an adjacent apartment.

The man opened the door and directly came at an officer with a sword, which led to a confrontation and resulted in the officer shooting and killing the man, according to police.

A police report from the department identified the man as Micduff Lamarco Robinson, 40, who lived in the unit next door to the woman who called. From the porch outside the units, knives and weapons could be seen inside that apartment.

"Somebody broke my apartment window and was looking in my window," the woman calling 911 said.

The woman said she didn't know who the man was but that her boyfriend thought it could be their next door neighbor.

"Do you think maybe he locked himself out or something?" the 911 call-taker asked.

"I don’t know, I really don’t know," the woman said.

Minutes later, still on the phone with 911, the caller reported the man was still stumbling around outside and broke another window, this one not in her apartment.

The sound of breaking glass woke up Amanda Grady, who lives at the bed and breakfast next door.

"We didn’t really know, just thought somebody was trying to break in over there or something, until the cops started speeding through here," Grady said.

An officer can be heard on radio traffic, saying, "Back up. He's got a sword."

That's when Grady heard gunshots and said she saw the suspect get shot.

"Shots fired, shots fired," an officer can be heard saying on radio traffic.

"We didn’t really hear what was being said," Grady said. "We just kind of just heard all the commotion. We did see the suspect go at the officer. I didn’t see any weapon on him, exactly, but it’s hard to see when it’s dark in the morning."

Grady said the owners of the bed and breakfast have run the place for 18 years and have never seen anything like what happened Wednesday. She said the situation made her feel "very unsafe."

"It kind of has everyone on edge right now. Very frustrated," Grady said.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation was called in to process the crime scene and to take over the investigation into the officer-involved shooting, which is the second officer-involved shooting in Mansfield in 2019.

The police officer from Wednesday morning's incident, Nolan Goodman, has been placed on administrative leave, per division policy. A release from police stated that he is a four-year veteran of the department.