Tiffany Hill was parked in her minivan with her mother and three children in front of their elementary school when Keland Hill approached with a semi-automatic pistol, according to authorities.

Man Fatally Shoots Wife In Front Of Her Children Before Killing Himself, Cops Say

A Washington man fatally shot his estranged wife last week while she sat with her mother and three children in a minivan at an elementary school.

Police said Keland Hill opened fire with a semi-automatic pistol on his wife Tiffany Hill’s Toyota van on Nov. 26, fatally striking his spouse, before leading police to a highly trafficked intersection, where he exited his vehicle and shot himself in the head.

“A short pursuit ensued, he stopped at one of the busiest intersections in the county, got out of the vehicle, ended up putting the gun to his head, and committed suicide as law enforcement was challenging him,” Sgt. Brent Waddell, a spokesperson for Clark County Sheriff’s Office, told Oxygen.com.

Police said the suicide occurred at the intersection of Andresen Road and Padden Parkway in Vancouver. The man’s wife was transported to the hospital where she was also pronounced dead.

Tiffany Hill’s mother survived the attack with “non-life threatening” injuries, police said. She had been shot three times, according to the victim’s family. Hall's three children were unharmed in the shooting. The shooting took place outside Sarah J. Anderson Elementary School in Vancouver around 3:15 p.m., shortly after classes were dismissed for the day.

“It’s very horrific,” Waddell added. “This whole incident impacts not only the victims’ family but the supsects’ family, the school district, it impacts the whole community. It is unfortunately very impactful.”

Tiffany Hill Photo: Facebook

Waddell said investigators are still working to piece together a timeline, but more importantly, they’re trying to ascertain where Hill, who was a convicted felon, was able to purchase a firearm.

“We’re working hard to trace down the gun and possibly who provided the gun for him,” Waddell explained.

The police spokesperson said Hill had attempted to buy a gun outside Portland last month but his paperwork was denied due to his criminal history.

“He illegally obtained it somehow,” Waddell said.

Officials for Sarah J. Anderson Elementary School said counseling services will be available to students and staff this week and that the school was adding additional security.

“Our thoughts are with the victims, students, families, staff and the entire Anderson community,” school district officials said in a statement last week. “We will support them however we can.”

According to court documents, the couple’s marriage was marred by domestic violence — and at the time of her death, Tiffany Hill had an active restraining order against her husband.

“I fear for my life,” Tiffany Hill wrote in a court petition obtained by Oxygen.com. “He continues to violate the no contact order and I know is getting angrier. He knows the only way to get to me is through the children. I fear for my children’s safety.”

The restraining order stemmed from a September incident when Keland Hill allegedly locked his wife out of a bedroom, threw her against a wall, chased her down a flight of stairs into a garage, and took her phone away when she tried dialing 911.

The Washington mother said that her husband then began cursing at her in front of her children — and later became violent — after she “didn’t say ‘hi’ to him,” court documents stated. She suffered a concussion and had required physical therapy following the domestic incident.

“My seven-year-old son saw this,” she also wrote.

She described her now-dead husband as weighing over 300 pounds.

“He uses his body as a weapon,” she described.

Tiffany Hill also admitted that North Carolina authorities had perviously charged Keland with attempted murder in connection to a separate past violent altercation between the married couple.

“He got me to drop the charges,” she stated. “He has done this countless times.”

The woman’s family described her as a “mother, a sister, a daughter, who “did not deserve to go this way” in a GoFundMe post last week.

“Our family is devastated,” wrote Tiffany Hill’s sister, Tabitha Ojeda. “The road the children have ahead of them is not an easy one.”

Tiffany was also a military veteran, her family said.

“My sister was a warrior, she fought for our country, she made people laugh and brightened every room she went into,” Ojeda added.

Oxygen.com was unable to immediately reach Ojeda on Monday.