Editor’s note: This story has been changed to correct David Matthew Harper’s age.

8th Judicial District Attorney Clifford Riedel announced Tuesday that a Loveland police officer was justified in shooting David Matthew Harper after Harper fired a handgun following a rollover crash on Colo. 402 last month.

The Larimer County Coroner’s Office has also found that Harper died from a self-inflicted gunshot to the head.

According to Riedel’s decision letter, on Nov. 30, four-year LPD veteran and K-9 officer Matthew Sychla responded to a report of a vehicle that had struck a road sign and flipped onto its side, trapping its driver within, in the 1300 block of E. Colo. 402.

When Sychla approached the vehicle, he found Harper sitting cross-legged on the driver’s side window and holding a 1911-style semiautomatic handgun, according to the letter.

Sychla backed away, then heard and saw a gunshot from inside and fired back multiple times at Harper’s position in the vehicle.

After the scene was secured, the Loveland Fire Rescue Authority extricated Harper, who was dead.

The report does not say whether any of Sychla’s shots struck Harper.

Investigators interviewed Harper’s brother and sister following the shooting, both of whom said Harper struggled with depression and alcohol abuse.

Harper’s family said he often talked about how we would not go back to prison and how, if he was stopped by police, he would kill himself.

Riedel says the 40-year-old had four prior felony convictions dating back to 1997 as well as three active arrest warrants for felony escape, felony DUI and failure to comply in a felony DUI case.

On the night of the shooting, Harper had been visiting with his sister. She told investigators that he had been drinking for a few hours prior to the shooting and that he typically consumed at least a pint of alcohol.

She estimated that Harper left her apartment around 11 p.m.

At 11:38 p.m., a passer-by called 911 to report the crash involving Harper. LPD, Loveland Fire Rescue Authority and Thompson Valley EMS were dispatched to the scene.

Because of his assignment, Sychla does not typically respond to motor vehicle accidents but told investigators that he was close to the scene at the time and thought he would be able to quickly render aid.

Sychla arrived at 11:41 p.m. and saw civilians trying to free Harper from the vehicle. As he walked up to the car, one told Sychla that Harper was holding a gun but that he thought Harper had “cleared” it.

Witnesses who tried to help Harper out of the car later told investigators that he seemed disoriented and drew the gun after being told that the police were on their way.

Sychla saw Harper holding the gun, at which point he drew his weapon and told the group standing around the car to move back. Sychla then told Harper to drop the gun.

Harper pointed the gun at his own head, according to the letter. Then, he lowered it to his chest.

Sychla started backing away from the car until his view of Harper became limited.

“He could no longer see the handgun being held by Mr. Harper but did not see him put it down,” Riedel says.

“Officer Sychla repeatedly ordered Mr. Harper to drop the gun. As he was doing so, Officer Sychla saw and heard a gunshot come from within the vehicle. Officer Sychla, not knowing whether Mr. Harper had shot at him, at one of the other citizens in the area, or himself, returned fire, firing his weapon multiple times.”

The second LPD officer to respond, Zachery Noble, said he heard Sychla on his radio ordering Harper to drop the gun, followed by a muffled gunshot and a succession of gunshots that sounded louder than the first.

He did not witness the shooting but later held cover as Sychla tried unsuccessfully to remove Harper from the vehicle to administer medical aid.

LPD Geoff Reeves was later able to break a window and remove Harper’s gun, but LFRA had to cut away the windshield and roof of the car to extricate Harper himself.

Riedel said that if Harper had survived, there would be enough evidence to charge him with possession of a weapon by a previous offender, felony DUI, prohibited use of a firearm and careless driving.

He concluded his opinion letter by saying that Sychla acted in a “professional and conscientious manner” and should be commended for his quick reaction.

“Officer Sychla reacted to the discharge of the gun from within the crashed vehicle in an appropriate and fully justified manner,” he said.