Police officials defended the fatal shooting of a knife-wielding Harlem man by an undercover vice cop yesterday - saying the apparently intoxicated 65-year-old ignored an order to put down the weapon. "Police! Drop it!

" the detective yelled as Melvin (Rocky) Sylvester lunged at him with the 8-inch knife, one official said. Still, Sylvester's death from a bullet to the chest early yesterday brought protests from his family and some community activists, who questioned whether police were too quick to fire. "It wasn't necessary to shoot him," said Sylvester's daughter Kimberly, 18. The bloodshed capped a fracas between the Sylvester family and their downstairs neighbors, who have long feuded. Things got ugly when Kishia Sylvester, 30, and Darlena Harding, 25 - who got into a brutal brawl in 1997, when both were pregnant - ran into each other around 11 p.

Advertisement

m. Thursday outside the St. Nicholas Houses at W. 131st St. and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Blvd. "I'm not pregnant now, b----," Kishia Sylvester taunted Harding, said her father, Ronald Isler. Fists flew, and Harding allegedly doused Kishia Sylvester with ammonia. 'I'm going to shoot you' Afterward, Kishia Sylvester pulled out a cell phone and called her brother, William, and told him, "Get your gun. I'm going to kill this b----," police sources said. Shortly after midnight, the two families met up again. William Sylvester gestured toward his waistband and warned, "I'm going to shoot you," police sources said. Around the same time, three vice cops giving a summons at a bodega heard, "He's got a gun.

" A plainclothes detective grabbed William Sylvester and was frisking him. The cop spun around to see Melvin Sylvester - who had been drinking - coming at him with a knife raised "in a stabbing motion," police said. Ronald Isler Jr., 15, said the detective gave three warnings. "The cops said, 'Freeze! Put the weapon down. Put the weapons down, sir! Put the weapon down,'" Ronald said. Then he heard a shot and saw Sylvester tumble to the grass. Kimberly Sylvester argued that there was no warning and the detective didn't identify himself - but the NYPD said the cops had shields around their necks. "It appears the officer acted within guidelines," said Lt. Brian Burke, an NYPD spokesman. The undercover detective, whose name was withheld, has a record of 760 arrests, seven commendations and no other shootings. Melvin Sylvester had 10 arrests since 1965, including a 2000 bust for menacing with a knife.