TAMPA — Two Tampa police officers responding to a call about gunfire fatally shot a man as he wrestled with a woman over a handgun and then pointed it toward the officers, police said.

The shooting occurred about 1:45 p.m. Thanksgiving Day in a building police described as a shed/efficiency apartment behind a home in the 200 block of E Cluster Ave in Old Seminole Heights.

Derrick Everett, 30, was shot by Sgt. Felicia Pecora and Officer Hope Dauphin, police said. Everett was taken to St. Joseph’s Hospital and later died.

Police gave this account of the incident:

Pecora and Dauphin were sent to a call Thursday afternoon about shots fired near the 100 block of East Flora Street. Around the same time, a caller from the 200 block of E Cluster Ave — about a block away — reported seeing a man with a gun in a backyard.

Neighborhood residents pointed the officers to the shed, with one witness telling them a man and woman were arguing there and the woman was trying to get a gun away from the man.

Officers found Everett and a woman inside. Everett was holding a handgun. When Sgt. Pecora ordered him to drop it, he pointed the gun at the woman, police said. Pecora fired at Everett.

Everett then pointed the gun at Pecora and both she and Officer Dauphin fired at Everett, hitting him. They administered first aid until Tampa Fire Rescue arrived and took Everett to St. Joseph’s Hospital. He later died there.

The handgun Everett carried was recovered from the floor of the shed.

Neither officer was injured, police said. They were placed on administrative leave, standard procedure in shootings involving officers.

Sgt. Pecora is a 19-year police veteran and describes herself as a wife and mother in her online Linked-In business networking profile. Pecor also is CEO of Doer Academy Inc., a company that offers training and consultation “about workplace safety and toxic employees," according to the profile.

She also has served for seven years on the Hillsborough County Public Library board and is currently chairwoman of the board.

Officer Dauphin was named Officer of the Month, according to an August post on the Tampa Police Department Facebook page, in part for persuading a man to surrender peacefully after he went to his wife’s place of business and threatened to kill her and then himself with a knife.

Dauphin also drew praise for her volunteer work and has earned the nickname “Officer Hopes” for her work with one of the Police Department’s causes — coordinating R.I.C.H. House, for Resources In Community Hope, according to the Facebook post. The nonprofit organization is described as a safe haven for children in the Sulphur Springs area.