Gary White

gary.white@theledger.com

LAKELAND — The morning after Thanksgiving, a reportedly distraught man forced a Polk County Sheriff’s Deputy into the dreaded scenario known as “suicide by cop.”

Kenneth Layton, 60, made an emergency call about 10:20 a.m. from his North Lakeland home, claiming a suspicious man had knocked at his door. Soon after Deputy Chad Nichols arrived at Layton’s house at 1505 Saddlehorn Drive, he saw Layton inside holding a handgun, Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said Friday afternoon in a news conference.

Nichols backed away, moving behind his parked vehicle. But Layton followed him outside.

Nichols repeatedly ordered Layton to drop the weapon, Judd said. When Layton raised the gun and pointed at Nichols, the deputy had no choice but to shoot, striking the man in the chest with a single shot.

An emergency medical team was called, but Layton was pronounced dead at the scene in the Country Square subdivision, Judd said. The sheriff said neighbors told PCSO investigators that Layton’s wife died of cancer about two months ago and that Layton had been despondent since.

“Ladies and gentleman, this is a classic, a classic, suicide by cop,” Judd told media members. “It’s just a sad situation. I’m sorry he put us in that situation. I’m sorry he didn’t allow us to help him.”

Judd said Nichols has been with the agency for 15 years. Following protocol, PCSO’s homicide unit will investigate the shooting, and an administrative review will also be completed.

The State Attorney’s Office for the 10th Judicial Circuit will conduct an independent investigation of the death, as will the Medical Examiner’s Office, Judd said. As is customary, Nichols will be placed on paid administrative leave during the initial stages of the PCSO investigations.

Layton was hyperventilating as he talked to an operator during the 911 call, Judd said. Nichols, who was in a patrol car by himself, responded to the call and knocked on the front door.

There was no response at first, then Layton opened the door but did not appear, Judd said.

“So the deputy is now very suspicious, and he angles toward and looks in the house and there is Kenneth pointing a firearm at him,” Judd said. “And he starts screaming, ‘Put the gun down! Put the gun down!’ ”

Nichols’ commands were captured on a recording of the ongoing emergency call, Judd said.

The preliminary investigation found no evidence that anyone else had been near the house, Judd said. He said a neighbor’s motion-activated video camera showed no indication of a suspicious man in the area.

Judd said Friday he didn’t know yet whether Layton’s gun was loaded. He said investigators had talked by phone with Layton’s son, who lives in Hernando County, and he confirmed that his father was in despair following his wife’s death.

“This is a horrible event to occur to anyone, and certainly now I’ve got a 15-year deputy by the name of Chad Nichols who is very experienced — Chad Nichols is as good as any deputy who’s ever walked the face of the Earth — who’s got to live with this the rest of his life. And all he was doing was defending himself,” Judd said. “But Chad said it became abundantly evident that he was going to make (him) shoot him.”

Judd said his deputies are willing to do what they can to help residents receive psychiatric care. That includes invoking the Baker Act to deliver someone deemed a danger to himself or others for a psychiatric assessment.

Nichols, whose age was not available Friday, will have access to counseling as he copes with the event, Judd said.

“It’s traumatic enough when you’re shooting a really bad guy, but it’s really traumatic when after it’s all over you find out that he’s using you as a vehicle to commit suicide and he’s left you with that baggage,” Judd said. “I hurt for Mr. Layton’s family, and I’m sorry we couldn’t help him. But I’m also angry with him for forcing our deputy to have to shoot him.”

Country Square is a small neighborhood about a quarter-mile west of U.S. 98 near Marcum Road containing modest, single-story houses. Polk County property records show Layton bought his house in 2014.

Katie Kinchen, a resident of the subdivision, stood nearby and watched Friday afternoon as Judd delivered information to media members. Kinchen said she had been walking in the neighborhood when she saw paramedics arrive, headed for Layton’s house.

Kinchen said she didn’t know Layton well.

“Sometimes I’d walk around, but I’d just wave at him,” she said. “I really didn’t know him. I just found out more about him today.”

Kinchen said she had spoken to a woman who lives nearer to Layton and who said she had taken a meal to him Thursday evening.

“She said everything seemed fine with him last night,” Kinchen said.

Gary White can be reached at gary.white@theledger.com or 863-802-7518. Follow on Twitter @garywhite13.