Prosecutor: Bentonville police officer who shot & killed teen was justified in use of force

The Benton County Prosecutor found an officer who shot and killed a 17-year-old robbery suspect last week was justified in his use of deadly force.Officer Joseph Brown was placed on administrative leave after shooting Dominick Matt, age 17, the night of Friday, December 6, 2019.Brown responded to a report of an attempted robbery at the Kum and Go gas station on Regional Airport Blvd. Brown located a suspect near Greenhouse Road, based on the store clerk's description, according to police.Dominick Matt brandished a handgun when the officer arrived and refused to drop his gun, according to prosecutor Nathan Smith. He then pointed the gun at Brown, who shot him.A note was found in Dominick's pocket. In it, Dominick identified himself, apologized to the clerk and to police and thanked the officer who shot him, according to Smith. He also wished the officer a long and prosperous life and said there was money in his pocket to repay the store.Dominick's parents told police their son was dealing with depression and had previously attempted suicide. He had recently changed medications.The Arkansas State Police Criminal Investigation Division investigated and sent its findings to the Benton County Prosecuting Attorney.

The Benton County Prosecutor found an officer who shot and killed a 17-year-old robbery suspect last week was justified in his use of deadly force.

Officer Joseph Brown was placed on administrative leave after shooting Dominick Matt, age 17, the night of Friday, December 6, 2019.

Advertisement

Brown responded to a report of an attempted robbery at the Kum and Go gas station on Regional Airport Blvd. Brown located a suspect near Greenhouse Road, based on the store clerk's description, according to police.



Dominick Matt brandished a handgun when the officer arrived and refused to drop his gun, according to prosecutor Nathan Smith. He then pointed the gun at Brown, who shot him.

A note was found in Dominick's pocket. In it, Dominick identified himself, apologized to the clerk and to police and thanked the officer who shot him, according to Smith. He also wished the officer a long and prosperous life and said there was money in his pocket to repay the store.

Dominick's parents told police their son was dealing with depression and had previously attempted suicide. He had recently changed medications.

The Arkansas State Police Criminal Investigation Division investigated and sent its findings to the Benton County Prosecuting Attorney.