Portland police’s fatal shooting of a man near Mall 205 on Sunday afternoon marks the agency’s fifth fatal shooting of 2019. It’s the most since 2010, when Portland police also shot and killed five people.

So far, the agency has released few details about the timeline of events or circumstances surrounding the officers’ use lethal force against a man walking in traffic on Southeast 103rd Drive near Stark Street. On Monday, the Multnomah County Medical Examiner identified that man as Koben S. Henriksen, 51 -- a man who has experienced severe mental illness, court records show.

In 2014, Clackamas County Court sent Henriksen to the Oregon State Hospital for trial fitness treatment after finding that he was mentally unfit to aid and assist in his own defense in a misdemeanor theft case -- showing that Henriksen suffered some form of severe mental illness at the time. The charges were eventually dismissed.

Dispatch records and witness accounts help pull the shooting into clearer focus, depicting a fatal encounter unfolding seconds after two officers’ initial contact with Henriksen.

On Monday, police named Justin Raphael as the officer who fired the fatal shots. He has been with Portland police for seven years. Officer Daniel Leonard, an 11-year veteran with the agency, fired less-lethal rounds. Both are on paid administrative leave while Portland police conduct an internal review and the Multnomah County District Attorney investigates the shooting.

Police received a call at 1:40 p.m. Sunday, reporting suspicious circumstances involving a weapon, according to their news release. Dispatch call recordings show that two callers reported that a man -- presumably Henriksen -- was standing in the middle of the road near Southeast 103rd Drive and Stark Street, pointing a knife at passing cars.

Sgt. Kevin Allen said Monday he could not confirm whether Henriksen was armed with a knife or other weapon. Portland police policy on use of force directs officers to “avoid or minimize” force used on people in a behavioral or mental health crisis and people with mental illnesses. Officers should direct those people to services “where possible.”

Leonard and Raphael responded to the scene. Police said Leonard was armed with a less-lethal 40mm launcher that shoots foam-tipped projectiles. Raphael carried a rifle, according to witness accounts and dispatch calls.

According to dispatch call recordings, the officers met at Southeast 106th Avenue and Southeast Cherry Blossom Dive before approaching Henriksen, just a few blocks from where he was blocking traffic. Witnesses told The Oregonian/OregonLive that two police vehicles drove up to the man in close succession.

About six and a half minutes after the initial call to police, officers appear to make contact with Henriksen, according to the dispatch recordings.

Records show that 13 seconds later, dispatch called for a medical response and an officer’s voice can be heard saying, “Officers are OK. Suspect is down.”

Robert Vervloet, 58, was waiting for his drink at Starbucks when he witnessed police fatally shoot Henriksen.

Vervloet, a longtime Portland resident, had just finished shopping at a nearby Fred Meyer and had stopped to grab a hot egg nog drink on his way home. His girlfriend was waiting in their car, parked in the lot. It was about 1:40 p.m.

43 1 / 43 Officer-involved shooting near Mall 205 in SE Portland

That’s when Vervloet heard the honking -- loud and piercing. Across from the coffee shop, he saw a man standing in front of an 18-wheeler truck that was attempting to drive north on Southeast 103rd Drive.

The driver rolled down a window and said something to the man, who then walked slowly into the next lane of traffic, toward Vervloet and Starbucks.

The man was about two to three car lengths from the intersection with Stark, Vervloet said.

Vervloet watched as the man casually walked, hands at his side, across the street, ignoring the vehicles coming toward him. He didn’t see the man carrying a weapon or knife, or see him acting aggressively toward the vehicles, he said.

“This man was walking. He didn’t look threatening in any way, shape or form,” Vervloet said. “He was almost in a zombie-like state. There was no aggression.”

Another car - this time a smaller white car - screeched to a halt to avoid hitting Henriksen.

“Seconds after that, the first police car arrives,” Vervloet said. It rolled in with the flow of traffic traveling north on 103rd. A police SUV arrived from the same direction a few seconds later.

The SUV caught Vervloet’s attention -- an officer opened the driver’s side door, stood, and propped what looked like an AR-15 style rifle on the door.

The man had made his way onto the sidewalk alongside the Starbucks parking lot and was standing with his hands still at his sides, Vervloet said.

The officer pointed his rifle in the man’s direction, and the direction of Starbucks.

“My brain was drawing the bead-line of where the bullet could travel if they missed,” Vervloet said.

The man walked, zombie-like, toward the two cops, Vervloet said.

Vervloet didn’t hear any words exchanged between the officers and the man -- he just heard himself yell: “No. This is not going to happen.”

But the officer with the rifle fired shots -- Vervloet heard two -- and the man fell, he said. Vervloet couldn’t see what, if any, weapons the other officer was holding. He did not see the other officer fire. It all happened in a matter of seconds, he said.

“All I could see was that officer get out of his vehicle, level his gun and pull the trigger -- bottom line,” he said.

Sgt. Kevin Allen told the Oregonian/OregonLive that some officers do carry AR-15 rifles after they undergo extensive training and earn a certification. He also said there is no set amount of time that officers should wait between firing less-lethal and then lethal rounds, saying it is “entirely situation-dependent.” The Oregonian/OregonLive found no specific procedure outlining appropriate escalation from firing less-lethal to lethal rounds in the Portland police use of force policy. But it directs officers to use the least amount of force necessary, “reasonably calculated to maintain control.”

Vervloet spent the next few hours tucked away from public view on a TriMet bus, which police said serves as a warm place to hold witnesses at large crime scenes. An officer who stayed on the bus with witnesses told them not to discuss with each other what they’d seen, Vervloet said.

About nine people were on the bus with Vervloet, many who had been in line at Starbucks. Most were deeply disturbed by what they had seen, he said.

Police said the officers used both lethal and less-lethal weapons against the man -- Vervloet said he only saw a rifle.

Vervloet said the man who was shot seemed homeless and confused; he didn’t see the man as a knife-wielding threat. A bag of personal belongings lay on the sidewalk across the street from the man’s body.

Two other witnesses described a similar scene on Sunday: Hicham Elhaj and his son Wasim Elhaj described the two police vehicles approaching the man on 103rd. The pair work at a food cart on the corner of 102nd Avenue and Stark, just across from Starbucks.

Hicham and Wasim watched as officers exited their vehicles and that’s when the person began to swiftly walk toward the officers, he said. They saw two officers, each with a firearm. One weapon looked like a rifle, and the other was a smaller gun -- but the two men stood too far away to make out what kind, Hicham said.

Hicham and Wasim did not see the man carrying a weapon, but said he looked homeless and had been carrying a blanket while wandering and moving strangely in the street.

They heard yelling, but couldn’t make out exactly what words were exchanged and heard three sudden gunshots.

Both father and son watched as the officers fired and Henriksen fell to the ground.

In that area of Southeast Portland, it’s a common sight to see a homeless or mentally ill person wander into the road, Hicham said. Vervloet, who lives nearby to the scene, said much the same thing.

“But it’s my first time seeing someone killed,” Hicham said, shaken. “It happened so fast.”

For the next few hours, Henriksen’s body was visible, lying face-up on the pavement. A white blanket was strewn on the ground next to him.

"Portland Police Officers responded to a dynamic situation involving an armed subject," Portland Police Chief Danielle Outlaw said in a news release. Outlaw was on scene Sunday with Mayor Ted Wheeler.

"This is still early in the investigation and we will work within the process to release as much information as we can without compromising any of the investigation," Outlaw said.

After Portland police completes its review, the Police Review Board, which is comprised of community members, Bureau members and representatives from the Independent Police Review Division, will examine the case.

-- Emily Goodykoontz; 503-221-6652; egoodykoontz@oregonian.com

Related: