This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

PAYNE COUNTY, Okla. (KFOR) – A devastating scene near Yale, Okla., going into the holiday.

“Two people died as a result of this. We found the right person,” said Capt. Gary Vinson with Oklahoma Highway Patrol.

Tragedy struck Wednesday along State Highway 51 just outside of Yale in Payne County.

Oklahoma Highway Patrol says Tommy McClendon Jr. stole a truck, Wednesday, and led police on a high speed chase, at times going over 100 miles per hour, before striking another car that was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time.

Two people inside the car died instantly. Another was rushed to the hospital by helicopter. A child passenger walked away with only minor injuries.

Shattered glass and warped metal is all that’s left of the vehicles.

But McClendon was able to flee, hiding in the nearby woods for hours, trying to elude police.

“He was hurting a little bit, but not enough to be crawling around in the woods for a few hours,” an officer said.

After hours of searching, McClendon gave away his location and gave up.

“He has been laying out in the field, started getting cold and yelling for help, and that’s how we found him,” the officer said.

Update (7:45 p.m., 11/27): Yale police confirmed that they captured the motorist who fled on foot following a crash that killed two people.

Yale officials made the announcement on the Yale Police Department Facebook page.

“All suspects are in custody at this time,” the Facebook post states.

Police at the scene of the manhunt identified the suspect as Tommy LeRoy McClendon Jr. McClendon and a woman who was with him were both arrested.

A relative of McClendon’s went on Facebook and publicly urged him to turn himself in.

The crash resulted in the death of two adults. Another adult in the crash was airlifted to a hospital. A child passenger in the crash is said to be fine.

Original Story

YALE, Okla. (KFOR) – Officials have shutdown State Highway 51 near Yale while they search for a suspect who fled on foot after a chase that ended in a deadly crash.

According to the Stillwater News Press, the chase ended in a double fatality crash.

The Oklahoma Highway Patrol is assisting Yale Police in the manhunt.

No other information is available at this time.