Joshua Chung

Asbury Park Press

New Jersey's Jewish community was shaken by reports that the suspects involved in the gun battle in Jersey City Tuesday had deliberately targeted a kosher deli where three bystanders were killed, although authorities stopped short of calling the incident an anti-Semitic attack.

Video surveillance footage showed that the two suspects — identified as David N. Anderson, 47, and Francine Graham, 50, both of whom were killed — opened fire on the JC Kosher Supermarket with long rifles immediately after arriving across the street in a white U-Haul van deli at 12:21 p.m. Tuesday, authorities said. Both suspects then entered the store.

The small deli, which was left in shambles from the attack and the suspects' roughly two-hour gun battle with police who swarmed the scene, is located next door to a Jewish synagogue and caters to a small enclave of Orthodox Jewish families in the city.

Two of those killed inside the deli were Orthodox Jews: Leah Minda Ferencz, 32, whose family owned the business, and Moshe Hirsch Deutsh, 24. Douglas Miguel Rodriguez Barzola, 49, was also killed. A fourth person was wounded but managed to escape the store, New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said.

In a press conference Wednesday afternoon, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy expressed solidarity with the state's Jewish community, saying, "An attack on our Jewish community … is an attack on all 9 million of us who are proud to call ourselves New Jerseyans."

But amid media reports linking Anderson to the Black Hebrew Israelites, considered an anti-Jewish hate group, Grewal and other law enforcement officials cautioned that the investigation into a motive for the attack was still ongoing.

In the meantime, Jewish leaders said they were deeply disturbed by the emerging narrative of the attack.

“The Jewish community is shaken,” said Evan Bernstein, the New York and New Jersey regional director of the Anti-Defamation League. “We want to get the details and understand what happened.”"

"This potentially may be the worst anti-Semitic incident in New Jersey, it is very possible," added Avi Schnall, the director for New Jersey's Office of Agudah Israel of America, an organization that represents the interests of the Orthodox Jewish community.

The shootout coincides with a rising tide of anti-Semitism across the nation.

It comes just over a year after the October 2018 shootings at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh which killed 11 people and wounded seven. The incident was the deadliest attack on the Jewish community in the United States and the most anti-Semitic homicides in a single year in U.S. history, according to the FBI.

New Jersey had the third most anti-Semitic incidents in the country in 2018, behind California and New York, according to an annual report by the Anti-Defamation League. The New York-based nonprofit organization tracks such incidents from police, school and other reports.

The ADL had identified 76 anti-Semitic incidents in the state so far this year, as of October, the most recent count available. There were 200 such incidents in New Jersey in 2018, and 208 in 2017, according to the ADL.

These statistics came from the organization's "heat map," which tracks a variety of extremist incidents, including those involving white supremacy and terrorism.

The New Jersey Attorney General's Office provides a different set of statistics. According to a report it issued in August, there were 172 reported anti-Jewish bias incidents across the state in 2018. Those cases accounted for more than 30% of all reported bias incidents in New Jersey and more than 86 of all such incidents motivated by the victim’s religion.

"We must recognize the greater context in which this outrage occurred. Jews have been targeted in city streets, in their houses of worship and online," the Agudath Israel of America said in a statement Wednesday. "The increase in the number of anti-Semitic incidents is alarming and needs to be urgently addressed."

Many of New Jersey's anti-Semitic incidents have targeted the state's growing Orthodox Jewish community, particularly in and around Lakewood, a booming Ocean County township of more than 100,000 residents where Orthodox Jews now account for the majority of the population.

In 2018, 11 of New Jersey's reported anti-Semitic incidents took place in Lakewood, according to the ADL's count. The incidents included anti-Semitic graffiti, online threats, harassment and slurs..

As of September, Lakewood police had investigated 47 bias incidents in the township, up from a total of 20 reported in 2018. The township police did not provide a breakdown of anti-Semitic incidents, however.

“I think the rise is not just here, but it’s happening all around the country right now,” Lakewood Mayor Raymond Coles said.

“I think one reason you’re seeing more anti-Semitic incidents (reported locally) is because we’re doing a good job of communicating to people to let us know when something like that happens," the mayor said. "We are trying to make sure that people report these incidents and let officials know because if you ignore the incident, it’s only going to get worse.” You can hear Schnall discuss the problem of anti-Semitism in the videos below.

In August, police in Lakewood investigated the slashing of over 100 car tires in the Old Pine Acres neighborhood. All of the vehicles were owned or operated by members of the Orthodox Jewish community, who were praying at a local synagogue at the time, police have said. Lakewood Police Capt. Gregory Staffordsmith said there are no new leads in the case but an investigation is continuing.

“This incident happened exclusively in Jewish homes,” said Alex Rosemberg, the ADL's director of community affairs. “Basically, that meant someone had such an animosity towards a particular population that they decided to go do that, leaving all those families stranded to go to school and work. This created such a commotion of ‘why they are only targeting us.'”

Another incident happened in September in neighboring Jackson Township, where the Orthodox Jewish community is also growing rapidly.

A rabbi involved in that incident, who did not wish to be identified by name, said he was walking home from a prayer service when a car swerved toward him.

"'F*** you, go back to Lakewood,", the rabbi said he heard heard three young white men in the vehicle yell. Then they said "something about Hitler," the rabbi said.

"I really thought there was a strong possibility my life was in danger," he said.

A Jackson teenager accused of driving the car and yelling insults was charged with bias intimidation and simple assault, Capt. Staffordsmith said. Police have not released the juvenile's name.

In Central Jersey, a Hillsborough township employee discovered an anti-Semitic flier in the municipal building earlier this year, and racist and anti-Semitic graffiti was found on the side of the Scotch Plains-Fanwood High School in October 2018.

“People are intimidated by cultures,” said Schnall of Agudath Israel of America. “For outsiders that don’t understand or don’t know what a certain culture is about, it will look intimidating to them especially if they see hundreds of men on a Friday night in dark suits, black ties and black hats marching to the synagogue.”

Cheryl Makin contributed to this story.

Joshua Chung is a breaking news reporter. A lifelong Jersey Shore resident, he is a recent graduate of Michigan State University. Contact him at jchung@gannettnj.com, 732-870-7985, or on Twitter @Joshchunggg