Pennsylvania State Police said a man who opened fire on troopers, hitting one of them, has been shot and killed. UPDATE: State police identified the gunman as Delos Lowe, 68.The incident began Tuesday when troopers did a welfare check at a home at 1507 Barney Hill Road in Nelson Township, Tioga County. “Upon arrival, troopers announced themselves and attempted to ascertain if anyone was in the residence. After no response, the troopers entered the residence through an open door and announced their presence again in attempts to get a response from anyone in the residence. A gunshot was fired at the troopers and one of them was struck,” a statement from PSP says.The trooper was airlifted from the scene and is still in the hospital in stable condition. Police said the gunman barricaded himself inside and refused to surrender. A standoff ensued for the next 14 hours. Police said the man fired at troopers numerous times during the standoff. Around 2 a.m. Wednesday, the PSP SERT team returned fire, killing the gunman. While the standoff is over, the investigation is ongoing. State police say more details will be released as the investigation develops.

Pennsylvania State Police said a man who opened fire on troopers, hitting one of them, has been shot and killed.

UPDATE: State police identified the gunman as Delos Lowe, 68.

Advertisement

The incident began Tuesday when troopers did a welfare check at a home at 1507 Barney Hill Road in Nelson Township, Tioga County.

“Upon arrival, troopers announced themselves and attempted to ascertain if anyone was in the residence. After no response, the troopers entered the residence through an open door and announced their presence again in attempts to get a response from anyone in the residence. A gunshot was fired at the troopers and one of them was struck,” a statement from PSP says.

The trooper was airlifted from the scene and is still in the hospital in stable condition.

Police said the gunman barricaded himself inside and refused to surrender. A standoff ensued for the next 14 hours. Police said the man fired at troopers numerous times during the standoff.

Around 2 a.m. Wednesday, the PSP SERT team returned fire, killing the gunman.

While the standoff is over, the investigation is ongoing. State police say more details will be released as the investigation develops.