State Attorney Melissa Nelson has ruled Jacksonville sheriff’s officer Josue Garriga justified in the killing of Jamee Johnson, a recent Florida A&M University student whose death sparked calls for prosecutors to release body-camera footage more quickly.

Johnson’s Dec. 14 shooting has played a prominent role in recent protests. After his killing, lawmakers and citizens alike have been calling for the release of the body-camera footage. Nearly eight months later, no longer able to call the case an ongoing investigation, the State Attorney’s Office released footage from two officers’ cameras along with a series of reports and photos related to the investigation.

The video shows Johnson, a 22-year-old with no criminal history according to the State Attorney’s Office, lunging back into his car where he had a gun during a traffic stop. After Garriga shoots him during a struggle, Johnson is seen on the ground begging for help while officers waited at least two minutes for backup before rendering any aid.

“Please don’t let me die,” he tells the officers. “Please don’t let me die, sir.”

In the eight months since Johnson’s death, the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office has shot 12 people, killing seven, according to Times-Union records.

Sheriff’s Office policy states that before rendering aid after a shooting, officers should secure the area, handcuff the suspect and develop an action plan in the event of more shootings.

Johnson was pulled over as part of the Sheriff’s Office’s “violent-crime reduction strategy,” which attempts to use traffic stops to find drugs and guns in neighborhoods where violent crime is most prevalent. According to the State Attorney’s Office report, there were 48 incidents of violence within a mile of the shooting in the seven and a half months before Johnson’s death.

Garriga’s body-worn camera apparently was knocked off during the encounter. Garriga provided the office with a written statement several months later that said during a scuffle Johnson pointed a gun at his face.

“During the physical struggle, I was able to grab the right wrist of the driver, which the handgun was still in, and was able to push myself out of the vehicle. As I exited, I observed the suspect moving his body in my direction and I believed he still had the gun in his possession. Fearing for my life I fired my issued firearm at the suspect until no longer a threat.”

The State Attorney’s Office said although the interaction between Garriga and Johnson isn’t completely caught on camera, the footage that is available corroborates Garriga’s statement.

“In our opinion, given the totality of the circumstances, Officer Garriga reasonably feared that his life was in danger,” the office’s report said. “In his written statement, Officer Garriga described an intense struggle over Johnson’s firearm. During the struggle, Johnson crashed his car through a fence, dragging Officer Garriga along with him.

“After the crash, Johnson continued to place Officer Garriga’s life in danger as he lifted the gun toward Officer Garriga’s face. Even still, Officer Garriga did not immediately resort to deadly force. Instead, Officer Garriga instinctively concealed his face as Johnson lifted the gun closer. Officer Garriga was able to push himself out of the car, but Johnson moved his body toward Officer Garriga. Believing Johnson was armed, Officer Garriga shot Johnson.”

Last month, Johnson’s mother, Kimberly Austin, told the Times-Union she wanted the state and the Sheriff’s Office to do a better job of releasing information about officer shootings more quickly.

She has repeatedly called on the two offices to release the footage of the shooting over the last eight months, even though she said she wouldn’t be able to watch it herself.

“I just want the truth to come out. Either way I just want to know what happened that day,” she said. “I’ll never watch the video. I’ll never watch it.”

She said her son wanted to be a business owner and to move back to Jacksonville after completing his studies. She said he had always been more quiet and liked playing video games, but at college, he had begun to come out of his shell.

Every year, she said, he would be the first to text her at midnight, wishing her happy Mother’s Day. This year, the holiday felt particularly painful. “He was a good son,” she said.

Since his death, she said she has stayed up late most nights, watching old videos of him singing and rapping along to Kodak Black hits.

State Attorney Nelson declined an interview request. Her spokesman said the records would speak for the office. Nelson hasn’t granted The Times-Union an interview since before protests took place in the wake of George Floyd’s death.

Spokespeople for Sheriff Mike Williams did not return a request for comment.

In the video released Monday, Johnson lay on the ground, begging the officers. “Please don’t let me die. Please don’t let me die, sir.”

Earlier video showed Garriga pulling Johnson over for not wearing a seat belt. Garriga smelled possible marijuana and said Johnson was acting very nervous. Garriga asked him if he had anything he needed to know about in the car. Johnson told him he had a gun. Johnson asked if he should get the receipt for the gun, and Garriga told him, "I don’t want you reaching.”

[Editor’s note: The police body-cam video below is graphic and may be upsetting to some viewers.]

After ordering Johnson out of the car, Garriga asked Johnson why he smelled a certain way. Johnson told him he had been smoking hemp, which is legal.

Garriga asked if Johnson would mind if officers search the vehicle, and Johnson said he would. “There’s no reason to search my vehicle, sir,” he said. “I have my legal firearm, and that’s about it.”

Garriga told Johnson to sit in the back of a police car while he looked up the firearm serial number. Johnson asked if he could grab his ID and then appeared to lunge inside the vehicle. Garriga and Johnson struggled and then Johnson began driving the car away, dragging the officer. Moments later, shots can be heard after the suspect crashes.

Prosecutors who wrote the State Attorney’s Office report noted that Garriga didn’t pull a gun on Johnson when he first jumped in the car.

“Officer Garriga used the least amount of force necessary to prevent Johnson from arming himself,” the report said. “But Johnson resisted police efforts and continued to struggle to gain control of his firearm. Johnson then managed to put the car into drive and accelerate the vehicle toward an occupied home, dragging the officers along with him. The car crashed through a fence and came to a stop in the yard of a nearby residence. As Officer [Kristopher] Graham was attempting to enter the car to assist, Officer Garriga fired four gunshots. Officer Garriga quickly exclaimed, `He tried to grab his gun on me.’”

After Johnson got out of the car, he could be heard telling two officers: “I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. I’m dying, sir. Please, God. I pray to God I don’t die.”

Meanwhile, Graham repeatedly shouted at Johnson to stop moving.

About two to three minutes after the shooting, someone in the background says, “Somebody get a trauma kit or something.”

Michael Sampson, an organizer with the Jacksonville Community Action Committee, which has led recent protests calling for police accountability and more transparency, criticized the investigation.

In an interview after he said he had gotten off the phone with Johnson’s parents, he said it was bizarre that “so much of the state attorney’s report is based” on a statement that Garriga didn’t give until nearly seven months had passed, namely Garriga stating that Johnson had pointed a gun at him.

“That’s the crux of is it justifiable,” Sampson said.

Sampson, who has called for the Sheriff’s Office’s budget to be decreased, also criticized the department’s violence-reduction strategy.

“This ideology of bloating the sheriff’s budget every year, adding new officers to the street, isn’t stopping crime,” he said. “It’s actually creating more crimes. It’s creating negative interactions between the community and law enforcement.”

He added, “If that special task force hadn’t been there, Jamee would’ve been alive today having been a recent graduate from college.”

The video can be seen this State Attorney’s Office link: tinyurl.com/JohnsonSAO.