OZARK, Ala. (WSFA) - The Ozark police officer and suspect involved in a shooting Thursday night have both been identified by authorities.

WSFA 12 News sister station WTVY received a press release from the Ozark Police Department identifying the officer as Samuel Yoh and the suspect as 23-year-old Bradley Cutchens.

Yoh was left in critical condition in the shooting, while Cutchens was shot and killed.

According to the Ozark Police Department, the shooting happened around 9:50 p.m. while officers were responding to a call in the 100 block of Briar Hill Court. The release says Yoh saw a man walking in the roadway holding a rifle. When Yoh got out of his patrol vehicle the man immediately began shooting at him. Yoh and his vehicle were hit multiple times.

Ozark police say Yoh’s backup returned fire and killed Cutchens.

Yoh was transported to Southeast Health in Dothan where he remains in critical condition. Ozark Mayor Bob Bunting told the Associated Press Yoh is young and has a wife who is pregnant.

Reports say the shooting happened in the area of Briarhill Court near downtown. ((Source: WTVY))

Ozark Police Chief Marlos Walker requested the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency’s State Bureau of Investigation to conduct an independent investigation of the shooting.

SBI is the lead investigating agency in this incident. Once completed, Ozark police say a copy of the investigation will be turned over to the Dale County District Attorney.

Gov. Kay Ivey tweeted about the shooting:

I’m saddened to hear of the news coming out of Ozark this morning, where a police officer was shot in the line of duty. I’m praying for this member of the Ozark Police Department and his family during this difficult time. @EverythingOzark #alpolitics #BackTheBlue #ThinBlueLine — Governor Kay Ivey (@GovernorKayIvey) December 13, 2019

U.S. Sen. Doug Jones was in Ozark Friday and shared his thoughts on the shooting.

"This has been a difficult time for Alabama’s police officers in the last three weeks and last night’s shooting was just another example of how these men and women put their lives on the line every day even in the most difficult of circumstances,” said Jones.

A neighbor agreed to do an interview with WSFA 12 News but on the condition we not show her face or use her name.

“So I came to the front and heard some noise, an argument or something,” the woman said.

The lady described a horrific scene: an argument, gunshots and seeing the suspect fall on West College Street, not far from downtown Ozark.

“I seen the gunshots. I heard the gunshots, everything. I heard he shot the cop first but I don’t know exactly who shot first. It was like I was in Iraq. It was so many policemen down here,” she said.

Copyright 2019 WSFA 12 News. All rights reserved.