Police are investigating a murder-suicide in Highland County, a detective confirmed Saturday morning.

The deceased have been identified as Sherry Wall and Joshua McLaughlin. They were 33 and 37, respectively.

Police said they got a call of a shooting at 11:35 p.m. Friday. A woman had been shot at a residence on US Route 50 and a small child was taken from the home by a male, according to a release from Highland County Sheriff Donnie Barrera.

When officers arrived on scene they found Wall with a gunshot wound. She succumbed to these injuries.

On the way to the scene Hillsboro police observed the man, later identified as McLaughlin, with a child at the Hillsboro Church of the Nazarene along the same street, the release states.

Officers then responded to the church where they found McLaughlin inside the church and the child standing outside. According to the release, a deputy and police officer grabbed the child from an area outside of the church doorway.

McLaughlin remained inside the church with a handgun, police said. Officers from the Ohio State Patrol, Hillsboro Police Department and Sheriff's deputies secured the scene and surrounded the building.

[ Want to stay in the loop on all things Cincinnati? Download our app. ]

The Highland County Sheriff's Office's special response team arrived on scene and entered the church, where McLaughlin was found deceased with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, the release states.

An investigation is underway. Highland County Prosecutor Anneka Collins was called and a search warrant was executed at the US Route 50 home.

Neither Walls nor McLaughlin were members of the church, says senior pastor Tom Zile. He says the location of the barricade was random.

"Our church as a whole is a church of love and grace, and our hearts are broken over this loss of life," Zile said.

The church sustained three broken windows and will need to replace carpeting, Zile said.

All church activities have been cancelled for the weekend.