Redford — Police in Redford Township have identified the man killed in a shootout with Detroit officers who was suspected in a Friday double homicide as Louis Patrick Veal, 65.

More:Man killed in officer shooting was suspect in Redford double homicide

Veal was killed Saturday afternoon on the Detroit's east side.

The day prior, Redford police responded to the 14300 block of Mercedes after reports of shots fired, the department said in a statement. They arrived to find two women, 18 and 49, dead from gunshot wounds.

The Wayne County Medical Examiner's Office identified the victims Monday as Lysa Blake, 18, who died of a gunshot wound to the head, and Dania Phillips, 49, who died of a gunshot wound to the chest.

After the shooting, Redford police say Veal fled the scene in a stolen vehicle.

Police say Veal was "known to both victims," as he lived in the home where the shooting took place.

The next day, police found the stolen vehicle in Detroit and Veal opened fire at officers, they said. They returned fire, striking Veal, who died en route to the hospital.

The medical examiner said Veal died from multiple gunshot wounds.

As word of the homicide in Redford spread over the weekend, there was an outpouring of social media messages from people expressing their shock and sadness over the deaths of Blake and Phillips.

Wendy Horger shared some thoughts about Phillips, who she said she met about six years ago through mutual friends. Horger told the Detroit News Phillips was a mother of four and involved in organizations such as Autism Speaks.

“I’m angry,” Horger said. “I’m upset. All I can feel is pain for both the families and everybody who knew her and loved her. I feel it was a senseless murder. I’m just beyond myself.”

Phillips hosted a radio podcast show on Cave Radio and went by the name “Dani Cakes.”

“She was a funny DJ,” Horger said. “She was a sweet, loving, caring person.”

Horger said Phillips was generous and always made people smile.

“She always never let you leave the room without putting a smile on your face,” she said.

Angelina Ciaravino-Mayer said if she had one word to sum up her friend, Phillips, it would be joy.

"She exuded joy, brought joy wherever she was whoever she was with no matter the circumstances," Ciaravino-Mayer said. "She was a giver, a supporter, and a fighter. She would give you the clothes off her back and her last morsel of food. She really was the epitome of what we should all aspire to be like."

Diana Garrett Johnson said that Phillips would engulfed anyone in her presence with love. She met her about four years ago when each of them had podcasts on Cave Radio.

"She always stepped up to help me when I was unemployed, for example, a few times and she barely knew me," Johnson said. "She'd give the shirt off her back. She loved people unconditionally."

@downi75 on Twitter