AKRON, Ohio — Akron police say the 40-year-old man who was killed by two officers Sunday morning was fired on when he drew a holstered handgun on them after a struggle.

Mohammad Isaifan, of Akron, died at the scene from multiple gunshot wounds, the Summit County Medical Examiner confirmed Monday.

According to an updated news release from Akron police, after receiving numerous calls, officers were dispatched to a vehicle against the center median on 76E near E. Market Street. The vehicle was unoccupied. Officers checked the registration and discovered the car belonged to Isaifan. While doing an inventory of the car before it was towed, officers found a 9mm Glock handgun, two handgun magazines and various amounts of ammunition.

Callers provided a description of the person who abandoned the car.

A short time later, officers found Isaifan walking near Brittain Road and Evans Avenue, wearing camouflage pants and an outer ammo-style carrier, the release states.

Officers approached Isaifan on the east side of the street, conducted an investigative stop and attempted to pat him down for weapons, an official stated. During the interaction, a struggle ensued.

Officers disengaged from Isaifan, the release states. Isaifan then drew a handgun that he had holstered on his side. Officers drew their service weapons, fired, and struck Isaifan multiple times.

Officers then secured Isaifan's weapon, called for EMS, and immediately rendered first aid to him, police said. Isaifan was pronounced dead at the scene.

The officers involved were a 12-year veteran and an 18-year veteran. Per procedure, both were placed on paid administrative leave.

Through the investigation, officers responded to Isaifan's apartment on Brittain Road, the release states. They found the back door was open. Based on circumstances and "previous threats involving explosives," the Summit County Bomb Squad was called and later responded to the scene. No incendiary material was found.

Detectives later obtained a warrant and searched Isaifan's apartment, according to Akron police. During the search, over 2,000 rounds of ammunition, several magazines, a rifle case and a computer were recovered. The FBI and ATF responded to the apartment and were consulted on the investigation.

Akron police say that Isaifan had prior convictions for impersonating a police officer in 2014 and inducing panic in 2008.

RELATED: Akron police investigating shooting involving 2 officers that left 1 male dead

