A man who was the suspect in a burglary ran from Lathrop detectives and died in an apparent drowning Wednesday, authorities said. When the detectives found the suspect, he ran into the Walthall Slough off the San Joaquin River, according to the San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office. "The detectives gave him verbal commands asking him to get out of the water and he refused," said Deputy Andrea Lopez, public information officer for the sheriff's office. Authorities later found the suspect in the water. He was dead when first responders located him, the sheriff's office said. The sheriff's office identified the suspect Thursday as 29-year-old Joseph Chisholm, of Manteca.Lopez said the sheriff's office and the San Joaquin County District Attorney's will work together to investigate Chisholm's death. "A protocol investigation is done to ensure everything was done properly, within the law and also within the policy within our office," Lopez said.Lopez said the investigation will also include what caused Chisholm's drowning.

A man who was the suspect in a burglary ran from Lathrop detectives and died in an apparent drowning Wednesday, authorities said.

When the detectives found the suspect, he ran into the Walthall Slough off the San Joaquin River, according to the San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office.

Advertisement

"The detectives gave him verbal commands asking him to get out of the water and he refused," said Deputy Andrea Lopez, public information officer for the sheriff's office.

Authorities later found the suspect in the water. He was dead when first responders located him, the sheriff's office said.

The sheriff's office identified the suspect Thursday as 29-year-old Joseph Chisholm, of Manteca.

San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office

Lopez said the sheriff's office and the San Joaquin County District Attorney's will work together to investigate Chisholm's death.

"A protocol investigation is done to ensure everything was done properly, within the law and also within the policy within our office," Lopez said.

Lopez said the investigation will also include what caused Chisholm's drowning.