CALDWELL COUNTY, N.C. (WBTV) - A man accused of firing shots at officers during a traffic stop in downtown Hudson Thursday morning was killed during a standoff with U.S. Marshals.

Officials say they were conducting a traffic stop when a person, later identified as 28-year-old Kentrey Marquis Witherspoon, got out of the suspect vehicle, fired a gun and ran off. The officers involved were not injured, but a patrol car was struck during the shooting.

A manhunt then got underway as authorities searched for Witherspoon. Schools in the area were placed on a soft lockdown and roads were closed as a helicopter aided in the search.

#breaking Search underway in Downton Hudson After a man being stopped by deputies and police officers fire shots at them, hitting a patrol vehicle. The suspect jumped and ran. Several blocks are cordoned off pic.twitter.com/C5FAGftxTq — Steve Ohnesorge WBTV (@WBTVSteveO) December 19, 2019

Officials say Witherspoon was spotted hours later that afternoon on Shasta Drive, in the Joyceton Community of Lenoir, and again fired at officers as he ran into the Kincaid Plant 6 on SW. Norwood Street.

Employees at the plant were safely evacuated under cover of law enforcement and a lengthy period of negotiations with Witherspoon began. According to the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office, those negotiations ultimately failed and Witherspoon “was engaged by the U.S. Marshals."

Ashley Robbins was among those workers ushered out by law enforcement. “It was scary,” she said. “They had their guns out and told us to raise our hands.”

She says she and a co-worker were afraid for their lives and “Ran out and kept running till we couldn’t run any more.” Her number one thought was about her five children. “ I was afraid my kids would come home and not have a mom.

An hour later, a series of shots could be heard coming from inside the plant building. Within minutes, word came that the incident was over.

Just before 3:30 p.m., officials said that Witherspoon had been pronounced deceased. Officials have not said exactly how he was killed.

Anyone with further information is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 758-8300, or the Caldwell County Sheriff’s Office at 759-1526.

Copyright 2019 WBTV. All rights reserved.