TUCSON, Ariz. (KOLD News 13) - An Arizona state trooper fatally shot a suspect during a brutal attack in Tempe late Thursday, Dec. 19.

Arizona DPS said it began around 11:50 p.m. when the trooper saw Mohamed Ahmed E A Al-Hashemi knock over a street sign on Rural Road, which is south of Loop 202.

The trooper, who has not been named, was patrolling the area and had a citizen observer with him,

DPS said Al-Hashemi, a Qatari national in the U.S. on student visa, would not stop when the trooper asked him to and continued to walk down the middle of the roadway.

The trooper tried to get the 25-year-old Al-Hashemi to get out of the street several times before ordering him to the ground.

Mohamed Ahmed E Al-Hashemi was fatally shot by an officer in Tempe, Arizona after an violent altercation with the patrol officer late Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Source: Tempe Police Department)

Al-Hashemi refused and allegedly charged the trooper’s vehicle and kicked the hood.

Arizona DPS said due to Al-Hashemi’s erratic and threatening behavior, the trooper twice tried to use his taser to stop him.

Al-Hashemi then allegedly charged the trooper and attacked him.

“Within seconds, the trooper was in a fight for his life,” DPS said in a news release. "The subject struck the trooper with fists, headbutt and full-kick strikes, knocking him to the ground at least three times."

The trooper then asked his citizen observer to radio for help.

Al-Hashemi grabbed the troopers taser and hit him over the head several times.

When the trooper fell to the ground, Al-Hashemi allegedly continued to kick the trooper in his head.

“As the attack continued, the trooper began to feel a loss of consciousness,” DPS said in a statement. “The trooper knew both his life and the life of the citizen observer in his car were in immediate danger of death.”

The trooper then shot and killed Al-Hashemi.

The trooper was treated at a local hospital before being released.

Copyright 2019 KOLD News 13. All rights reserved.