UPDATE #2-Four Injured in Domestic Situation Lynn – Indiana State Police Investigators were notified this morning that John Resetar, age 44, the suspect in Friday’s domestic incident in Lynn, has passed away. An autopsy will be conducted to determine the cause of death. This is all the information available for release at this time, pending the autopsy results. The previous two releases are listed below. UPDATE #1-Four Injured in Domestic Situation 12/21-Lynn – Investigators are continuing to work in Lynn piecing together the events of yesterday. Officers from the Randolph County Sheriff’s Department and Lynn Police Department were initially sent to the home after Randolph County Dispatch received a call from the suspect’s wife, reporting a domestic situation at the home, involving her husband who was armed with a firearm. To correct information from the initial release, investigators now say that suspect John Resetar, age 44, was found downstairs in his home last evening around 8 p.m., unconscious and suffering from a gunshot wound. After being discovered by officers downstairs in the two story home, Resetar was transported by ambulance to Reid Health Hospital in Richmond, then later to a hospital in Indianapolis. He remains there in critical condition. Officers found numerous firearms throughout the home with several rounds of ammunition. The three officers that were injured by shrapnel from the rifle fire included officers from the Lynn Police Department, Farmland Police Department and the Randolph County Sheriff’s Department. As reported last evening all injuries were considered minor and non-life threatening. This is all the information available for release at this time, as the investigation remains ongoing. Below is the initial release with corrected information. Four Injured at Domestic Situation 12/20-Lynn – Around 3 p.m. today (12/20) a Randolph County Deputy, along with the Lynn Marshall and Lynn Deputy Marshall, responded to a residence at 817 W. Church St. in Lynn for a report of a domestic situation between a man and his wife. As the officers arrived at the home and stood outside speaking with the man’s wife, they were fired on by a man inside the home with a rifle. The officers retreated, with one officer getting hit with shrapnel from one of the rifle rounds. As other officers from surrounding agencies arrived and set a perimeter around the home, the suspect continued firing at officers, with officers returning fire. The suspect fired several rounds into the police vehicles that had been left outside his home. Two other officers were hit with shrapnel from rifle rounds fired by the suspect. All three officers that were injured by shrapnel were considered to have minor non-life threatening injuries. Around 4:15 p.m. the suspect stopped firing. Around 8 p.m., after having negative contact with the suspect, SWAT entered the home and located the suspect, John Resetar, age 44, downstairs in the home suffering from a gunshot wound. Officers immediately rendered first aid and summoned EMS. Resetar, who was unconscious, was transported to a local hospital. This is all the information available for release at this time, as Indiana State Police Investigators will be working throughout the night at the scene gathering facts and evidence. The Indiana State Police, Randolph County and Lynn Units were assisted at the scene by officers from Delaware County, Hancock County, and Wayne County, IMPD as well as several units from surrounding cities. -30-