Frank Fernandez

frank.fernandez@news-jrnl.com

DELTONA — A Deltona man shot his sister and then was shot and killed by deputies who were at a home investigating a domestic disturbance on Christmas Eve, according to the Volusia County Sheriff’s Office. The sister was in town for their mother’s funeral.

Harvey Cantrell, 65, was shot dead at his home in Deltona after he shot his sister Gretchen Knowles, 73, as she tried to step outside to speak to deputies, Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said during a press conference.

The three deputies then opened fire on Cantrell, Chitwood said.

No deputies were injured in the shooting which occurred at about 8:51 p.m. Tuesday at the home at 1003 W. Gaucho Circle.

The deputies were not identified but Chitwood said they were experienced.

“Everybody’s going home safely,” Chitwood said. “We were able to save Gretchen’s life, I believe, the way the deputies acted, he only got one shot off before the deputies were able to down him.”

Knowles was hit in the shoulder by the bullet which then hit her in the face, Chitwood said. She was taken to Central Florida Regional Hospital in Sanford and was in stable condition.

Cantrell’s sister lives in a Northeastern state. She was in town for the funeral for their mother, who died last week, Chitwood said. Cantrell lived with the mother in Deltona.

“It’s sad in a way, but then again the most important thing is the deputies are going home safely. They protected Gretchen’s life,” Chitwood said.

On Tuesday night, trouble developed between the brother and sister. Cantrell would not let his sister call 9-1-1. But she managed to contact her daughter in Virginia and asked her to call 9-1-1.

She told her daughter that the brother was acting irrationally, was armed with a firearm and was being physically and verbally abusive to her, Chitwood said.

The daughter was unable to call 9-1-1 but called a friend in Ormond Beach who in turn called 9-1-1, Chitwood said. The Sheriff’s Office got the call about 8:15 p.m.

Three deputies approached the house Tuesday night and tried to make contact but the brother would not allow the sister on the phone, Chitwood said.

Eventually, deputies were able to get a third-party to contact the sister and asked her to walk out the front door and turn to her right where deputies would be, the sheriff said.

“As she comes out of the front door, her brother comes up behind her and shoots her one time in the shoulder, bullet hits the shoulder, ricochets into her face,“ Chitwood said. ”At that point, three deputies open fire on him, and he’s killed instantly.“

Cantrell had been acting erratic and the caller had warned deputies he had a firearm, Chitwood said.

As is routine, the three deputies were placed on administrative leave and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the shooting.

Cantrell did not have a criminal record, Chitwood said. He said Cantrell apparently had a mental issue.

The sheriff said he did not believe there had been prior calls to the house.

The sheriff said domestic violence calls are dangerous so deputies did not rush up to the front door but instead set up a perimeter to get a better idea of what was going on.

“The most dangerous thing we do is answer these domestic violence calls,” Chitwood said.

DON'T MISS AN EPISODE, SUBSCRIBE: iTunes | Google Play