This story has been edited to reflect TBI's updated identification of the shooting victim, who was originally misidentified by authorities.

A Memphis man was killed by police on Thursday night in Frayser.

Antonio Smith Jr., 35, was fatally shot after an altercation with Memphis police, according to a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation release. The shooting happened at 11:43 p.m. at the 3600 block of Hallbrook Street.

TBI originally misidentified the victim Friday morning but issued a correction that afternoon.

Memphis Police Department officers were responding to an unrelated call when they noticed a disturbance between three people.

"As officers approached, one of the individuals, who was armed, for reasons still under investigation, failed to comply with officers’ demands," according to the TBI release. "The situation escalated, resulting in two officers firing shots, striking the man and fatally wounding him."

It is unknown what type of weapon law enforcement said Smith was armed with.

No officers were injured.

Shelby County Attorney General Amy Weirich requested a TBI investigation, which is standard procedure after a police shooting.

By 8 a.m. Friday, the scene of the shooting was clear of TBI investigators and Memphis police officers.

Neighborhood residents said Smith's family stayed on scene for several hours.

Memphis police director Michael Rallings responded to the scene Thursday night, before the shooting victim was identified, and briefly spoke with media, reiterating the brief description of the fatal encounter.

MPD shared Rallings' statements on social media.

"We know that an officer-involved shooting is always a potentially volatile scene," Rallings said. "But we try to make sure that we contain scenes, and maintain scenes, and make sure that when TBI arrives, they can do their job unhampered."

The shooting took place less than 2 miles from the area where Brandon Webber was shot and killed by U.S. Marshals during an arrest attempt in June.

Unlike the aftermath of the Webber shooting, the scene after Smith's death was not met with any protest or visible community unrest.

"The loss of life is unfortunate regardless of the situation. Our prayers go out to the family members of the deceased," Rallings said.

Several neighbors in the area declined to speak with reporters.

Police describe unrelated incidents

Friday afternoon, an MPD spokesperson shared the incident report that brought officers to the Frayser area before Smith was shot. The incident was unrelated to the shooting that killed Smith, which enabled MPD to share the details.

The report describes officers responding to a prowler call in the 3600 block of Hallbrook Drive at 11:30 p.m. Thursday.

Once officers arrived, the resident told police she arrived to her home and found the side door of her house had been forced open and several electronics, including a television and a gaming console, were missing.

Incident reports pertaining directly to the shooting of Smith will not be available until TBI has concluded its investigation, MPD said.