Austin L. Miller

austin.miller@starbanner.com

Lori Jean Canada’s family and friends said the Ocala woman was a fighter.

Canada survived breast cancer and several domestic violence attacks.

“She was in remission for breast cancer for five years,” said Canada’s daughter and only child, Leah Overbeck.

Though she was strong, Canada privately wrestled with other demons.

For 11 years, the 59-year-old battled an alcohol addiction, depression, PTSD and mental schizoaffective disorder. According to the Mayo Clinic, schizoaffective disorder is a mental health disorder that is marked by a combination of schizophrenia symptoms, such as hallucinations or delusions, and mood disorder symptoms, such as depression or mania.

Overbeck said that, in July 2019, her mother slit her own wrists and throat. Overbeck and her wife, Kristina Rimes, said they feared the worst.

“We thought she wouldn’t make it,” Rimes said of Canada, an electrician who once made computer boards for missiles.

Overbeck said they could not find her mother because when she was admitted to the hospital, it was under a trauma name.

Canada survived, but on Christmas Day 2019, a few of Canada’s problems again resurfaced.

Marion County Sheriff’s deputies were called to Canada’s home in the 11400 block of Southwest 79th Terrace in Palm Cay, an adult retirement subdivision, to investigate a series of suicide threats made by Canada.

According to a memo issued by the State Attorney’s Office, Canada had a gun and refused to put it down. Deputies warned her repeatedly to drop the weapon. After a back-and-forth dialogue with Canada, she pointed the weapon at a sheriff’s deputy and was shot. She was treated by deputies and taken to a hospital, where she died.

The shooting was investigated by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which is standard in deputy-involved shootings. That agency reported to the State Attorney’s Office, which determined no criminal charges would be filed against the deputies. Prosecutors said the shooting was legally justified.

The deputies still face an internal affairs and a shooting review board probe into their actions to see whether agency policies and procedures were followed.

Overbeck said her mother, the second oldest of three sisters and two brothers, should not have been shot. The woman said her mother was known to sheriff’s deputies for frequently calling 911, and they knew her mental health history.

“Handling someone with mental health is different. They can’t help themselves,” Overbeck said.

Deputy Alberto Gago-Chuquillanqui, one of the deputies who fired his weapon at Canada, told investigators he saw Canada raise her gun at his colleague, Deputy Hunter McMurray. He said he was afraid that Canada “was going to or had already shot toward McMurray,” according to the prosecutor’s memo.

McMurray said Canada pointed the gun at him and, fearing she was going to shoot him, fired his gun.

Prosecutors said Canada was shot three times. One of the bullets struck Canada in the head. The gun Canada had was an air pistol, the report states. A toxicology report revealed Canada was under the influence of alcohol and benzodiazepines.

About a week before the shooting, Overbeck said, her mother called 911 and told a dispatcher that she was suicidal. She was taken to The Vines Hospital in Ocala, a facility that offers help for patients with mental health and substance addiction. Canada was released on Christmas Eve.

Rimes, Overbeck and friend Chris Groover felt it wasn’t enough time to adequately treat someone who has a history of mental problems.

The trio questioned deputies’ handling of the incident.

“They could’ve called me, use rubber bullets or tased her instead of using deadly force,” Overbeck said.

Overbeck said her mother’s husband was in the Marion County Jail for domestic battery at the time of her mother’s death. She said deputies told her mother’s husband about the death, and he told them.

Overbeck said there were no weapons in her mother’s home. And though she understands that the air pistol in her mother’s possession resembled a real gun, she said she believes deputies “could’ve handled it differently.”

Sheriff Billy Woods said: “We will do everything we can to save a life, and taking a life is tragic in and of itself. However, regardless of the circumstances, when presented with clear and present danger that is immediately threatening the life of my deputies or another human being, there is no negotiation. My deputies will immediately respond with deadly force to eliminate that one showing total disregard for another human life.”

Overbeck said she misses her mother.

“I’m going to miss just talking to her,” Overbeck said, wiping tears from her eyes. “She was strong, just not as strong to beat mental illness.”

Contact Austin L. Miller at 867-4118, austin.miller@starbanner.com or @almillerosb