Prosecutors are still investigating whether a Newport News police sergeant was justified in shooting a 43-year-old man to death in his home late last year as officers attempted to take him into custody on a misdemeanor charge.

Police Sgt. Albin T. Pearson, a 12-year-department veteran, shot and killed Henry Kistler “Hank” Berry III during the Dec. 27 struggle over a Taser inside Berry’s Oyster Point apartment.

Police have said Berry was resisting arrest and would not let officers handcuff him.

“Berry shoved Sgt. Pearson into a wall, and was able to disarm Officer (Dwight) Pitterson of his Taser,” a detective wrote in a December search warrant affidavit that was unsealed June 26. “Berry discharged Officer Pitterson’s Taser, striking Sgt. Pearson in the knee.”

The sworn statement didn’t say whether police believe Berry fired the Taser intentionally or if it went off accidentally during the struggle to control it.

“Sgt. Pearson collapsed to the floor and was able to draw his weapon,” the affidavit said. “Sgt. Pearson fired one round, striking Berry.”

He died of a single gunshot wound to the torso, the State Medical Examiner’s Office said.

Henry Kistler “Hank” Berry III, who was shot and killed by police in a home on Nantucket Place on Dec. 27.

– Original Credit: Daily Press

Berry’s family wants to know why four police officers — there to take him into custody on a charge of abusing the city’s 911 system that afternoon — were unable to arrest one man without resorting to deadly force.

“He was murdered, in my opinion,” said Berry’s father, Henry “Hank” Berry Jr., 81, of Williamsburg.

“You’ve got somebody that’s been on the police force for a number of years — which I understand was 12 years’ experience or something — and three other officers,” he said. “It was ridiculous that four people couldn’t take someone in.”

If the officers had posted the arrest warrant on the door, his father said, “he would have responded to that.” The elder Berry also contended that prosecutors are now “dragging their feet” on an investigation that’s now more than six months old.

Was mental illness a factor?

Jessica Schieffer, 36, the mother of Berry’s now 10-year-old child, asserts that Berry was no threat to officers.

“They’d been out there earlier that day,” she said. “They knew he wasn’t armed. They knew he wasn’t dangerous. They knew he was having a mental health crisis.”

After one of Berry’s calls to 911 that afternoon, she said, a Newport News police officer called her to say that Berry was telling police that his then-9-year-old son had been “kidnapped.”

Schieffer said she told the officer that Berry had been hospitalized for three days with possible schizophrenia and bipolar disorder less than a month earlier.

She said she told the officer that with Berry’s mental illness, he “might not remember” that he had lost custody of his son at a Newport News court hearing only 10 days earlier.

He previously had custody of the boy for more than seven years.

“Four hours later, they returned with four police officers, and an unarmed man was shot and killed,” Schieffer said. “If four police officers lost control of their Taser, I don’t see why someone needs to be shot dead. This is not acceptable, and we need to find a better way to handle these situations.”

A Newport News police officer was involved in a shooting in the 100 block of Nantucket Place on Friday night, Dec. 27, 2019.

Berry’s mother, Sylvia Berry, has hired two local attorneys, Mike AtLee and John Fletcher, to represent the family in a possible wrongful death claim against the city.

But Charles J. Key, a former Baltimore police lieutenant and an expert on the use of force, said that because police officers carry guns, Tasers can be considered deadly weapons when used on police.

That’s because if a Taser — a device that shoots barbs designed to cause temporary paralysis — incapacitates an officer, he said, his or her handgun can be taken, too.

“Even though a Taser is considered ‘less than lethal,’ in a situation where you’ve got police officers and they’ve got guns, then that’s what makes it a situation where lethal force would be reasonable,” Key said.

“The amount of force (officers) can use increases at the point he grabs the Taser,” he said. “Because at the point that he grabs a Taser to use it or attempts to use it against police officers … that becomes a lethal threat.”

Officers with an arrest warrant — even a misdemeanor one — “are allowed to force entry to take custody of the individual as long as they know he’s there,” Key said.

Suffolk prosecutors investigating

Many local movers and shakers attended Berry’s funeral in early January, with the family having deep community ties. Several attendees spoke of growing up with Berry and hanging out with him at the James River Country Club.

Berry graduated from Hampton Roads Academy in 1995, and studied engineering at Virginia Tech for six years. He later ran “Berry’s Tree Service, his father said, “but he struggled.”

He had custody of his son for nearly eight years, his father said.

“He was really a very good father,” the elder Berry said. “What he did to raise his son was remarkable. You should see how well-mannered his son is … His whole life was raising his son.”

Hank Berry III spent three years living with his son in Colorado, but they moved back to Newport News in the summer of 2019.

Newport News police officers investigate the scene of an officer involved shooting on Nantucket Place Friday December 27, 2019.

The Newport News Commonwealth’s Attorney’s Office typically reviews police shootings in the city to determine whether officers were justified and to decide on whether any charges are warranted.

But Newport News prosecutors have close ties to Pearson, a former street gang investigator, and filed a motion Jan. 23 asking a Circuit Court judge to appoint Suffolk Commonwealth’s Attorney Phillip Ferguson to handle the case instead.

The judge agreed.

“All of us who review cases — myself included — we know Pearson, and we know him personally and professionally,” Newport News Chief Deputy Commonwealth’s Attorney Valerie Spencer Muth told the Daily Press. “We didn’t feel comfortable. We did this to avoid an appearance of impropriety.”

Ferguson recently told the Daily Press that he’s still reviewing the case, adding that the recent pandemic has played a role in the investigation’s delay.

“There’s additional information that we’re trying to gather,” he said. “And we’re not in a position to make any determinations until we can gather all that information and analyze all the facts and circumstances.”

Similarities to Atlanta case

The Newport News case has some similarities to the case of Rayshard Brooks — the 27-year-old man shot and killed by police outside an Atlanta Wendy’s on June 12 — that has garnered national attention.

Berry and Brooks were both being initially sought on misdemeanor charges — Berry for the false 911 calls, and Brooks on suspicion of driving while intoxicated.

Both men resisted arrest, scuffling with officers trying to take them into custody. And both men, according to police, grabbed an officer’s Taser during the ensuing struggle.

But Ferguson downplayed the similarities between the two cases.

“The (Newport News case) is a little more complicated, in my opinion, than perhaps some of what they have in Atlanta,” Ferguson said. “That’s the best way I can describe it …. The bottom line is that it’s just not the same case.”

He would not elaborate.

In Brooks’ case in Atlanta, video footage shows him running away, but turning and firing the Taser toward Officer Garrett Rolfe. The Atlanta officer fired three rounds, striking Brooks twice in the back.

In the Newport News case, it’s not clear from affidavit whether Berry intentionally fired the Taser — or whether it accidentally went off during the struggle.

The suspect and officer were of different races in Atlanta — Brooks was Black, and Rolfe is white. In the Newport News case, on the other hand, Berry was white, the same race as Sgt. Pearson.

While video footage from the Atlanta case has been shown repeatedly on national telecasts, the body camera footage from the Newport News shooting still hasn’t been released.

Newport News police and Suffolk prosecutors have declined requests for the video recordings. Citing the ongoing investigation, the Newport News Police Department would not answer 24 questions from the Daily Press about the case.

That included, among other things, a request for the body camera footage, the recordings of Berry’s 911 calls that day, a list of the calls for service to the apartment and whether the 33-year-old Pearson had been involved in any prior shooting cases.

Another difference is how long the investigations have taken. While an Atlanta district attorney decided within five days to charge Rolfe with felony murder, prosecutors are still reviewing the Newport News case six months on.

“We don’t like just rushing to judgments, because I think that’s a very, very bad practice,” Ferguson said. “I just don’t think it’s the right way to do investigations. It’s not fair to anybody involved.”

The fatal encounter

Starting at about 2:30 p.m. on Dec. 27, police said, Berry called 911 four times from his apartment on Nantucket Place, a neighborhood off Pilot House Drive, not far from City Center.

After responding to the home each time, police came by again at 7:50 p.m., carrying an arrest warrant charging Berry with falsely summoning police with the intent to mislead. That’s a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable by up to a year in jail.

But when Berry opened the door, “he was in an agitated state,” Police Chief Steve Drew said at a news conference about two hours after the deadly shooting.

“They asked him to step outside, and he refused,” Drew said. “There was a short conversation. They asked him a second time, and he refused. He then darted back inside … and attempted to slam the door on the officers.”

But an officer blocked the door from closing, and police went inside.

Newport News police officers investigate the scene of an officer involved shooting on Nantucket Place Friday December 27, 2019.

“It started out with two, then three, then eventually four officers in the apartment,” Drew said. “Small quarters. They … go to the floor. There was a short tussle,” and an officer fell into a wall.

A female police officer tried to get Berry to relax. “She was just patting him on his back, trying to calm him down, reassuring him … saying ‘Calm down, calm down,'” Drew said.

“You have one officer holding one arm and another officer holding the other one,” he said. “They can’t get him to release. I don’t know if he’s holding on to a jacket or a shirt, or just clenched.”

How many people were Tased?

Officers couldn’t “wedge” Berry’s arm between his body and a wall, the chief said, and an officer pulled out his Taser. “If you don’t stop resisting, you will be Tased,” the officer told Berry, Drew said.

The officer then Tased him, Drew said. “And the reaction is, he grabs that Taser … And now the struggle is on. There is a fight on.”

Drew said that “at least two” — and possibly three — officers were Tased in the ensuing struggle, with the chief saying he heard distinct screams on the recordings.

Pearson was hit in the knee and “collapsed to the floor,” the affidavit said. He drew his weapon and fired at Berry.

“He goes down,” Drew said of Berry at the news conference. An officer ran outside to get a medic bag, he said. Officers put compressions on Berry, “trying the best they can to save his life,” but he died at the scene.

But the search warrant affidavit, written by Master Police Officer Michael Scrimgeour, mentions only one person being Tased — Sgt. Pearson — and doesn’t mention that either Berry or other police officers were Tased.

Moreover, the list of seized items police filed with the court mentions only one Taser probe being recovered from the scene after the shooting.

Police found the yellow and black Taser 7, with “one probe/barb observed exposed from the cartridge,” says the warrant’s inventory list. Police also found the cartridge case and a bullet, presumably from the officer’s handgun.

Tasers can typically shoot only two barbs, though they can be used repeatedly as a “drive stun” if held directly against a person’s body and fired.

Asked last week to clarify the number of people Tased, Drew noted that his news conference was “about two hours after the incident, so just take that with a grain of salt.” But he also added that the search warrant affidavit only needed enough information to establish probable cause.

Drew would not elaborate, citing the pending investigation. “I wouldn’t do that to the Commonwealth’s Attorney to comment any further,” he said.

Berry loses custody of his son

Drew said at the news conference that there were about 15 calls for service at Berry’s home in the months leading up to the shooting.

But Berry’s possible mental health issues drew the attention of police and the court system less than a month earlier.

In late November 2019, a few weeks before the killing, Schieffer — the mother of Berry’s child — wrote in court paperwork that she had gotten word that Berry was “mentally unstable.”

She said Berry’s father told her that the 9-year-old boy “has been missing weeks of school,” and that he was concerned about Berry’s mental state. Schieffer also wrote that Berry’s mother was “hiding in a motel in fear of her son.”

(Sylvia Berry, 83, said last week that her son “was never a threat to me” at all. “I was never actually hiding from him,” she said. “I just felt that I needed to get away for a few days and regroup.”)

After flying to Virginia from Nebraska, Schieffer called Newport News police on Nov. 27 asking that officers take Berry to a hospital for a mental health evaluation. But Berry took off when police arrived, before “even knowing why they were there,” she wrote.

“We were there when police attempted to talk to Hank and saw Hank flee with (his son) in a vehicle,” Schieffer wrote in a Dec. 2 court filing seeking a protective order on behalf of her son.

“We were terrified for (the son’s) safety as we witnessed Hank dangerously evade multiple police cars in traffic,” she wrote in the filing. “This reckless driving endangered (her son’s) life,” saying the boy was traumatized by “witnessing his father resisting arrest.”

When Berry slowed down near a Food Lion on Jefferson Avenue, police were able to surround his car and stop it. He was taken to Riverside Regional Medical Center, where he spent three days.

In a call from the hospital, Schieffer wrote, Berry told his son that “those people are going to pay, you have no idea how bad.”

A Newport News magistrate issued a three-day “Emergency Protective Order” on Dec. 2, barring Berry from having contact with his son.

A judge in Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court later extended that by 15 days, though he said Berry could have daily chats with the 9-year-old on Apple’s FaceTime service.

On Dec. 17, the judge granted to Schieffer sole custody of the boy Berry had been caring for since he was 2 years old.

Court records show the judge also extended the protective order for two years — to Dec. 16, 2021 — ruling that Berry would be allowed to FaceTime with his son only once a week — every Saturday morning — with the calls to be coordinated by Schieffer.

Berry’s attorney appealed that ruling to Newport News Circuit Court, but Berry died before the appeal hearing could take place.

‘Unfortunate situation’

While the three other police officers at the scene that night have returned to full job duties, Pearson is working on limited duty as the investigation continues.

“Sgt. Pearson is back to work in an administrative capacity only,” Newport News police spokeswoman Kelly King wrote in an email last week. “He is not in uniform or interacting with the public.”

“It’s an unfortunate situation,” Drew said the night of the incident. “My heart goes out to family, the individual, our victim, the suspect in this case.”

“It’s an absolute shame what happened,” Berry’s father said.

Staff writer Jessica Nolte contributed to this report

Peter Dujardin, 757-247-4749, pdujardin@dailypress.com