Ledger report

AUBURNDALE — An Auburndale man described as “schizophrenic” was shot and killed by Polk County Sheriff’s Office deputies during a domestic call Thursday night.

According to Sheriff Grady Judd during a press conference Friday, the department received a 911 call at 8:35 p.m. from a woman who said her adult son was schizophrenic, in a combative mood and in a rage in their home at 301 Congress Ave. in unincorporated Auburndale.

The woman told the dispatcher that her son said if she called 911 he would kill himself. Judd noted that when she was asked if he had a gun, she told the dispatcher and the deputies who later arrived that he didn’t, though he possibly had access to knives.

Judd said that Sgt. Heather Mundell and Deputy Gabriel Reveron arrived at the home where they met the mother of 35-year-old Juan Rosa. She led them to her son’s bedroom and said he had company.

The deputies then moved the mother to the front of the home while Mundell and Reveron instructed Rosa to come out of the room.

Judd said when the bedroom door opened, Rosa was armed with a handgun. Mundell and Reveron immediately gave commands for Rosa to drop the weapon, at which time he pointed the revolver at them.

They both fired their agency-issued weapons. Judd said the deputies fired four shots each, and then rendered aid to Rosa and summoned Polk County Fire Rescue. Rosa was taken to Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center where he was later pronounced dead.

The handgun Rosa had in his possession was a loaded .32 caliber snub-nosed revolver, Judd said.

Standard protocol for all deputy-involved shootings will include four independent investigations. The PCSO homicide unit will conduct a death investigation. PCSO Administrative Investigations will conduct an administrative inquiry. The State Attorney's Office will conduct a separate investigation. The 10th District Medical Examiner's Office will conduct an investigation to determine the cause and manner of death.

Mundell, 44, is a 21-year veteran of the sheriff’s office. Reveron, 37, has been with the department nine years. Per agency protocol, both were placed on administrative leave with pay during the initial phase of the investigation, Judd said.

“This is without a doubt a classic suicide by cop,” Judd said. “In that split-second, my deputies made the exact right decision to defend themselves.”

Judd said that had the deputies known Rosa was in possession of a gun, the scenario would have been different.

“We would not have knocked on that door,” he said. “Our response is calculated on the data we have.”

Kathy Leigh Berkowitz can be reached at kberkowitz@theledger.com or at 863-802-7558. Follow her on Twitter @kberkowitzthel1.