Authorities have identified two people who died after a homicide and officer-involved shooting in Rapid City over the weekend, police say.

Officers responded to a report of gunshots around 5 p.m. Sunday at an apartment complex at 851 E. Minnesota St., Rapid City police spokesman Brendyn Medina said.

Based on reports from police officers, Medina said the suspect was shooting at arriving officers with a rifle from the second floor of the apartment complex. A patrol vehicle was struck by gunfire, according to a news release from RCPD.

Officers entered the building and climbed to the second floor, where they believed the gunshots originated. They met the suspect on the stairwell. He was armed with a rifle.

RCPD officer Garrett Mastin fired his weapon and struck the gunman. Officers began life-saving measures on the shooter after the area was cleared, according to the news release.

More:Fire that destroyed Sixth Street home 'wasn't spontaneous,' official says

The suspect was identified as Patrick Alden, 29, from Rapid City, according to the news release.

“There’s no question in my mind that the brave actions of our officers helped save lives,” Assistant Chief of Police Don Hedrick said in the news release. “This was an active shooter situation, and the gunman’s actions made it clear that he was intent on harming others."

Officers found another male lying in the second-floor hallway with gunshot wounds to his body. Life-saving measures were also performed on the victim, who was identified as David Ironhorse, 64, from Rapid City.

Both the suspect and victim were transported to ambulances, but were declared dead on scene.

The South Dakota Division of Criminal Investigation is investigating the case.

When officers entered the building, some residents were evacuated and others were told to shelter in place. Two elderly residents were evacuated. One of the residents, 81-year-old Thomas Trout, was found unresponsive in a nearby vehicle later. Police believe he died of a health-related issue "complicated by the urgency of evacuation," according to the news release.

No officers were injured during the incident.

More:Police: Man arrested for threatening person with knife after littering