LAFAYETTE – What drove Kirklan Allen Conley, a 22-year-old Harrison High School grad, to shoot and kill Ryan Baughman, 42, of Delphi in a convenience store just north of Lafayette on Sunday before shooting and killing himself during a confrontation with Tippecanoe County deputies, police still weren’t prepared to say Tuesday.

On Tuesday, Indiana State Police released the two men’s names, following autopsies completed two days after the fatal shootings at a Family Express convenience store at 3105 Old Indiana 25, about a half-mile from a Lafayette exit off Interstate 65.

Baughman was inside the convenience store when police arrived Sunday night, dead from gunshot wounds to his body, Sgt. Kim Riley of the Indiana State Police said.

Indiana State Police said the suspect was Kirklan Allen Conley, a Lafayette resident. Conley died that same night from a self-inflicted gunshot, police said.

Baughman was a 1995 Lafayette Jefferson High School graduate who served in the Army, according to his obituary. He was a father of two, a grandfather of two and an HVAC technician in Lafayette.

FIRST REPORTS:Deputies returned fire, 2 dead in shootings at Family Express near Lafayette

Conley was a 2016 Harrison High School graduate who wrestled at the school, according to J&C archives.

Sgt. Kim Riley of the Indiana State Police said that when officers arrived after receiving a 911 call at 7:18 p.m. Sunday, Baughman was dead inside the store. Conley was armed and standing outside the store, near the gas pumps, Riley said. When deputies tried to detain him, shots were fired and Conley was killed, Riley said.

On Monday afternoon, Tippecanoe County Sheriff Bob Goldsmith said the man outside the store fired at deputies. The deputies returned fire, the sheriff said. Goldsmith did not offer how many shots were fired by Conley or by his deputies. On the scene Monday, what appeared to be bullet holes were in a RedBox movie rental kiosk near the north entrance to the convenience store.

On Tuesday, Riley said an autopsy showed that Conley had only one gunshot wound, which Conley fired.

No other information about what led to the altercation between Conley and Baughman was released immediately by ISP.

Riley said he wasn’t sure if or when that information would be released by police. When it was released, Riley said, that information likely would be up to the Tippecanoe County prosecutor’s office to determine.

Conley, once featured in 2015 in the J&C for helping save a group of kids struggling high water in the Wildcat Creek, had been charged in November for domestic battery and two counts of criminal mischief in connection with an Aug. 17 incident Roberts Americus Restaurant, six miles northeast of Lafayette in Americus, according to Tippecanoe County court records.

In that case, Conley was accused of domestic battery against a woman there, damaging a door at the restaurant and damaging the victim’s car, as well, according to court records. In November, Conley was issued a no-contact order for the victim, according to court records.

Conley’s case was scheduled for a jury trial in Tippecanoe Superior Court 5 in February 2020.

Riley declined to speculate about whether Conley’s domestic battery case had any bearing on the fatal shootings Sunday night.

Riley also did not speculate about why the two men were at the Family Express. He said neither man was an employee at the store. Riley said the employees and other customers in the store that night were not injured and were not involved in firing any of the shots. The gas station and convenience store at the corner of Old Indiana 25 and County Road 300 North remained open for business this week.

Attempts by the J&C to reach family members and acquaintances of Baughman and Conley were not immediately successful Tuesday.

Two Tippecanoe County sheriff’s deputies who responded to the 911 call at the Family Express remained on administrative leave, as of Tuesday, Goldsmith said. He said that was normal procedure whenever a deputy fired a gun in the line of duty. Goldsmith declined to release the names of the two deputies on Tuesday. He said they would go before an internal shooting review board soon.

Goldsmith referred questions about what happened Sunday in the criminal investigation to Indiana State Police, which handled the case.

Reach Dave Bangert at 765-420-5258 or at dbangert@jconline.com. Follow on Twitter: @davebangert.