A man was shot to death Thursday by a Clay County sheriff's deputy after he allegedly stole a gun at a sporting goods store in one city, shot a car salesman in another city and then led police on a brief chase in a third location, police said.The Clay County Sheriff's Office identified the man as Jeffery Dale Millsap, 26, of Holt. Police originally said Millsap was 28, but family told KMBC 9 News on Friday he was actually 26.The series of incidents began Thursday morning when employees at Academy Sports + Outdoors in Liberty said a man tried to buy a gun. When he was denied the purchase, investigators said he pulled out a knife, jumped over the counter and stole the gun and ammunition.The store was cleared but the man was not found, Liberty police Capt. Matt Kellogg said. Liberty police said they had reports the suspect loaded the stolen weapon and then walked out of the store.About 11:30 a.m. in Independence, officers were called to Landmark Dodge Chrysler Jeep Ram where a salesman had been shot several times. The salesman and the suspect had a brief argument inside one of the dealership’s buildings just before the shooting, said Independence police Officer Jodi Grooms. The victim was seriously injured and transported to a local hospital.Liberty police said because the suspect filled out the paperwork for the gun purchase before being denied, authorities knew his identity and were able to broadcast suspect vehicle information to other metro-area law enforcement agencies. Authorities were able to quickly link the Liberty and Independence incidents. About 30 minutes after the Independence shooting, officers and Clay County Sheriff Department deputies spotted the suspect's vehicle in Kearney and attempted to stop it, but the driver fled. Clay County sheriff's Capt. Will Akin said the man drove to a home in the 19800 block of Northeast 172nd near Holt. His father and sister were inside but it isn't clear if the man lived there, he said.It remained unclear what prompted the deputy to shoot. A Kearney officer was present, but did not fire, Akin said.The Missouri Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting.On Friday, MSHP Sgt. Bill Lowe said investigators found a handgun within close proximity of the suspect after he was killed in an officer-involved shooting.Lowe said the investigating into what led up to the officer-involved shooting continues, and that investigators will likely interview the deputy involved next week.

A man was shot to death Thursday by a Clay County sheriff's deputy after he allegedly stole a gun at a sporting goods store in one city, shot a car salesman in another city and then led police on a brief chase in a third location, police said.

The Clay County Sheriff's Office identified the man as Jeffery Dale Millsap, 26, of Holt. Police originally said Millsap was 28, but family told KMBC 9 News on Friday he was actually 26.

The series of incidents began Thursday morning when employees at Academy Sports + Outdoors in Liberty said a man tried to buy a gun. When he was denied the purchase, investigators said he pulled out a knife, jumped over the counter and stole the gun and ammunition.

The store was cleared but the man was not found, Liberty police Capt. Matt Kellogg said. Liberty police said they had reports the suspect loaded the stolen weapon and then walked out of the store.



About 11:30 a.m. in Independence, officers were called to Landmark Dodge Chrysler Jeep Ram where a salesman had been shot several times. The salesman and the suspect had a brief argument inside one of the dealership’s buildings just before the shooting, said Independence police Officer Jodi Grooms. The victim was seriously injured and transported to a local hospital.

Liberty police said because the suspect filled out the paperwork for the gun purchase before being denied, authorities knew his identity and were able to broadcast suspect vehicle information to other metro-area law enforcement agencies. Authorities were able to quickly link the Liberty and Independence incidents.

About 30 minutes after the Independence shooting, officers and Clay County Sheriff Department deputies spotted the suspect's vehicle in Kearney and attempted to stop it, but the driver fled. Clay County sheriff's Capt. Will Akin said the man drove to a home in the 19800 block of Northeast 172nd near Holt. His father and sister were inside but it isn't clear if the man lived there, he said.

It remained unclear what prompted the deputy to shoot. A Kearney officer was present, but did not fire, Akin said.

The Missouri Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting.

On Friday, MSHP Sgt. Bill Lowe said investigators found a handgun within close proximity of the suspect after he was killed in an officer-involved shooting.



Lowe said the investigating into what led up to the officer-involved shooting continues, and that investigators will likely interview the deputy involved next week.

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.