A crashed Mercury sedan, occupied by a man who left the car and was fatally shot while being pursued by police two blocks away, in the 6000 block of West Belden Avenue on Jan. 2, 2020, in Chicago. (John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune)

The Cook County medical examiner’s office has ruled a Melrose Park man who was shot by Chicago police and shot himself died in a homicide, although the man’s self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head also could have killed him.

Mariano Ocon Jr., 31, of the 2300 block of Gustave Avenue, died of multiple gunshot wounds including a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, according to the medical examiner. Other gunshot wounds, including one to the chest and another to the arm, were caused by someone else, according to the agency.

Advertisement

“Both the self-inflicted and other gunshot wounds independently caused injuries severe enough to result in death. According to the National Association of Medical Examiners manner of death guidelines, when both external and internal factors may result in death, preference is given to external factors," the medical examiner’s office wrote in an email.

Ocon died following a confrontation that began about 12:30 p.m. Thursday in the 6000 block of West Wellington Avenue, according to Chicago police. Officials initially said the shooting happened after officers made a traffic stop, but days later police released additional information about what happened just before the shooting.

Advertisement

Chicago police said Saturday that officers tried to stop the vehicle Ocon was in but the car didn’t stop, according to a statement released by police Saturday. Officers did not follow the vehicle, and police did not say what prompted the initial attempted traffic stop, according to the statement.

Ocon’s car crashed in the 2100 block of North McVicker Avenue, which is about a mile south of where the attempted traffic stop took place, police said. Ocon then got out of the car, prompting officers to search the area for him.

After a resident called 911, Ocon was found in the rear of home in the 2100 block of North McVicker Avenue, where officers confronted him, police said. Ocon had a gun with him that he wouldn’t drop when officers ordered him to do so, according to the statement from Chicago police.

Police detectives investigate after a man was fatally shot during a pursuit in the 2100 block of North McVicker Avenue on Jan. 2, 2020, in Chicago. (John J. Kim / Chicago Tribune)

During the confrontation, police shot Ocon at least twice and Ocon shot himself, according to police.

Advertisement

An investigation was underway by police, the medical examiner’s office and the Civilian Office of Police Accountability.

By Friday morning, Ocon’s family had hired Schaumburg-based attorney Thomas Glasgow. Glasgow was waiting for the autopsy to determine the cause and manner of death, and his office was looking into “conflicting statements” about the shooting.

“They just want answers at this point,” Glasgow said about the Ocon family.

Four children under the age of about 15, who were inside the car, were taken to Amita Health Resurrection Medical Center, and a woman was placed under arrest, according to a source. During the news conference, Cato said the children were doing "OK.''

At the time of the shooting, Ocon was wanted on an outstanding no-bond Cook County warrant in connection with a domestic battery charge in relation to an investigation by the Cook County sheriff’s office, according to court records.

Advertisement

The news conference ended abruptly when a man, who identified himself as Juan Ocon, the deceased man’s brother, began shouting and got into a brief physical altercation with an officer.

“Don’t touch me!” Ocon yelled as an officer tried to usher him away from the scene. An irate Ocon yelled and cursed at police officers when they tried to talk with him.

Police officers quickly intervened and calmed things down.

Ocon said he “doesn’t know the situation,” but criticized police for how they handled things.