Luz Moreno-Lozano, lmoreno-lozano@statesman.com

For Steve Haskin, it had already been jarring to see the usual tranquility of his regular coffee shop in South Austin broken Friday morning when a man tried to steal some food from a display case and then slammed a coffee mug on one of Haskin’s friends.

But learning that the disturbance at the coffee shop was only the beginning of an incident that would later leave a man dead was shocking, Haskin said.

After the man attacked his friend, Haskin said two patrons at Bennu Coffee on South Congress Avenue managed to restrain the man inside the coffee shop and pinned him to the floor when an officer wearing an Austin police uniform arrived and asked them to let the man go. The officer had handcuffs ready to detain the man, but Haskin said the man pushed past the officer and ran out the door. The officer did not appear to have a weapon, Haskin said.

Austin police did not confirm Sunday whether an officer was at Bennu when the man fled and declined to comment on Haskin’s account.

Authorities say the suspect, a 27-year-old homeless man whom they still haven’t identified, went on to stab two people at a nearby Freebirds World Burrito, killing one and seriously injuring the other. The attacker then climbed to the roof of the restaurant and jumped, seriously injuring himself. He is now in police custody, officials have said.

“We thought this was a minor incident and had no idea that he murdered someone and had somehow climbed onto the roof and jumped off,” Haskin said.

ALSO READ: Suspect in fatal South Austin stabbing is homeless, police say

Haskin, who visits Bennu every weekday at 8:15 a.m., said it all started when the man tried to steal food from the shop’s display case, which usually features pastries, sandwiches and other snacks. An employee who was working behind the counter, who was visibly upset with the man, asked him to leave and the man started to walk toward the door, Haskin said.

The shop keeps a bus tub by the door for patrons to discard their dirty dishes as they walk out. Haskin said the man rummaged through it, grabbed a coffee mug and struck a friend of Haskin’s, who was sitting nearby, in the back of his head.

“I thought he was going through (that bus tub) looking for food,” Haskin said. “But he picked up a coffee mug and swung into the back of my friend’s head like a baseball bat and knocked him down and out of his chair.”

Haskin said he took his friend to the hospital, where he received multiple staples and stitches. He is expected to be OK and has since returned to his normal routine, Haskin said.

Haskin declined to identify his friend because he didn’t have his permission.

After the man fled the coffee shop, Haskin said he and a coffee shop employee ran outside to see where the man went but they lost sight of him.

Police have not identified the man who was killed but Brice Bowden, a friend of the victim, said he was Johnathan “John” Aguilar, who had worked at the South Congress Avenue Freebirds for more than eight years. A GoFundMe page has been set up for Aguilar’s family, who organized a vigil for him at his childhood home Sunday night.

Haskin said the incident was scary but he plans to return to the shop for his cup of coffee Monday at 8:15 a.m., as he has for the last five years.

He said the shop is normally an easygoing place, which is why he enjoys visiting it. He said the people who work and visit there regularly also make it a pleasant place to frequent.

“I will be there tomorrow morning and hope my friend behind the counter will be too,” Haskin said Sunday. “It is very doubtful something like this will happen again but we will all be on our toes.”