SPRING VALLEY — The circumstances surrounding the police-involved death of Tina Davis will be investigated by the New York state Attorney General's Office.

Davis, 53, suffered an unknown medical episode after being stunned with a Taser by officers responding to a 5:10 a.m. emergency call Saturday about a woman breaking car windows and found her chasing one of the 911 callers with a stick, village police said.

After they handcuffed Davis, an officer shot her with a Taser to the forearm to get her to loosen her grip around an officer's neck, police said. She began suffering a medical emergency, Police Officer Matthew Galli said, and officers gave her CPR and a dose of Naloxone, an antidote to drug overdoses.

Surveillance video recovered from the scene showed that the woman might have suffered from a medical condition prior to police arriving, Galli said. After suffering a seizure-like episode on the ground for about a minute, Galli said the woman got up and started fighting and chasing another person.

SPRING VALLEY: Autopsy pending on woman who died after being tasered by police

DEATH: Spring Valley woman's death involving police draws review by state attorney general

POLICE TASERS: How do they work? What are the risks?

The attorney general is in charge of investigating unarmed civilian deaths involving law enforcement officers based on Gov. Andrew Cuomo's executive order in July 2015. The order also allows the special prosecutor to review cases where there is a question whether the civilian was armed and dangerous at the time of his or her death.

The Rockland District Attorney's Office reported Davis' death as required to the attorney general.

After reviewing the Davis case, the Attorney General's Office decided to investigate her death independent of local law enforcement, a spokeswoman said today.

The probe could take months, as investigators will interview police officers, witnesses, and family, and review records and any video. The office doesn't comment on investigations while in progress.

Spring Valley Police Chief Paul Modica has not responded to calls for details or comment.

Two ranking NAACP leaders, Wilbur Aldridge and Willie Trotman, said today that the decision by Attorney General Latisha James' office was a positive move.

Trotman, who heads the NAACP in Spring Valley, said the investigation will offer an independent review and "some type of transparency and the community needs to know that."

They said Modica had briefed them and said the chief placed the officers involved on paid leave, which is routine when a civilian death occurs. Both men felt that based on the chief's description of events, the officers acted appropriately but they were withholding a final judgment pending autopsy results.

A cause of death has not yet been finalized, but the death certificate states the cause is pending further study by the Rockland Medical Examiner's Office, according to the Hannemann Funeral Home in Nyack, which is handling the arrangements for the family.

A "home-going service" for Davis is scheduled for 1 p.m. Jan. 15 at the First Baptist Church, 6 Hoyt St. Visiting hours at the church begin at noon followed by burial in the Brick Church Cemetery in Ramapo.

Twitter: @lohudlegal