Katie Hall

khall@statesman.com

A police officer was approaching 27-year-old Dylan Woodburn to detain him after a disturbance at a South Austin coffee shop Friday morning when his duty belt came undone, Austin police said Monday.

It gave Woodburn an opportunity to escape and run into a nearby restaurant, where he stabbed a man to death, climbed onto the business’ roof, plunged head first and fatally injured himself in the fall, officials said during a news conference to share new details about the seemingly random attack.

Johnathan Aguilar, a 34-year-old father and kitchen manager at the Freebirds World Burrito where he was killed, died at the scene. Woodburn, who jumped from the roof after stabbing Aguilar and a second employee who survived, died that evening, police said.

Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said officials are investigating the police response into the incident, including why the officer’s duty belt came undone.

“We want to know the circumstances under which the officer’s duty belt came free,” Manley said at the news conference. “Obviously, that is something that we do not expect to have happened. We expect to provide our officers with the best equipment, and we expect our equipment to perform appropriately. That’s why we’re conducting this review.”

Manley said the incident began at 7:49 a.m. Friday, when police got a call about a man — who police now believe was Woodburn — holding a rock and verbally threatening people in front of the Bennu Coffee at a shopping center on the corner of South Congress Avenue and East Riverside Drive.

Woodburn was homeless, police said. Records show that he has been charged in Travis County with burglary and was convicted in Harris County on previous charges, including making a terroristic threat and possessing and dealing drugs.

Police assigned an officer to the call at 8:02 a.m., and the officer arrived seven minutes later.

“It appears at that point, from looking at the video that we have, that (the officer) is looking at the computer screen in his car, reading through the call,” Manley said, referring to footage obtained from the officer’s dashboard and body cameras. “We see a person exit the business and yell at the officer, directing him to come inside.”

Woodburn had hit a patron on the back of the head with a coffee mug, witnesses told the American-Statesman.

Several bystanders were able to restrain Woodburn and pin him to the floor, Manley said. Witnesses told the Statesman that the officer, who had his handcuffs ready, asked them to let Woodburn go, but Woodburn pushed past the officer and ran out the door.

Manley said it was unclear from the video whether the officer had asked bystanders to back away from Woodburn.

The officer’s duty belt then came loose, Manley said. The officer put his handcuffs down and, with both hands, put his duty belt back on, Manley said.

“It’s at this time that the suspect gets up and flees from the coffee shop,” Manley said.

The officer left to look for Woodburn, and more officers responded to the call, he said. Police lost sight of Woodburn and tried to find him.

Woodburn then entered Freebirds, which was closed at the time. Aguilar and other employees were opening the restaurant, and Woodburn stabbed Aguilar and another worker inside, Manley said.

Woodburn then climbed to Freebirds’ roof and jumped, he said.

“There’s a lot of information we’re still culling through and a lot of people we’re still talking with,” Manley said. “This is an ongoing investigation. ... We’re also conducting an internal investigation into our response to this incident to ensure that it was compliant with our policies and practices as well.”

Aguilar is survived by his wife and his teenage son, friends and family said during a candlelight vigil organized for him Sunday in his East Austin childhood neighborhood. An online fundraiser has been set up on GoFundMe for his family’s benefit.

At the vigil, childhood friend David De Luna spoke of the strong support Aguilar always provided his friends.

“John was always there,” De Luna said.