Four people are dead in Liberty County after people suspected of stealing a vehicle fled from police and hit another driver, head-on

Four dead in Liberty County after attempted traffic stop

Four people are dead in Liberty County after people suspected of stealing a vehicle fled from police and hit another driver, head-on. It happened around 2 p.m. Saturday on Leroy Coffer Highway. According to Georgia State Patrol, a Liberty County deputy's license plate reader picked up a vehicle that registered as stolen from Chatham County. Georgia State Patrol reports the deputy turned on his lights to try to make a traffic stop. GSP says when he did, the suspect turned onto the opposite side of the road and was hit head-on. The vehicle suspected as stolen then flipped and hit a guardrail. Three people inside the Nissan that was suspected as stolen were killed. The passenger in the other car was also killed. The driver of the Audi was taken to Memorial Hospital by ambulance.According to Trooper Brandon Smith, the passenger in the Audi is assigned to Fort Stewart, and lives in Long County. He was 43 Sergeant 1st class. The driver of the Audi is also from Long County. The driver of the stolen Nissan Sentra was a 19-year-old from Savannah. The passengers in the car were a 40-year-old woman from Midway, and a 32-year-old man from Savannah. The driver of the Audi is 31 Long County. Check back later for more updates.

Four people are dead in Liberty County after people suspected of stealing a vehicle fled from police and hit another driver, head-on.

It happened around 2 p.m. Saturday on Leroy Coffer Highway.



Advertisement

According to Georgia State Patrol, a Liberty County deputy's license plate reader picked up a vehicle that registered as stolen from Chatham County.

Georgia State Patrol reports the deputy turned on his lights to try to make a traffic stop.

GSP says when he did, the suspect turned onto the opposite side of the road and was hit head-on.

The vehicle suspected as stolen then flipped and hit a guardrail. Three people inside the Nissan that was suspected as stolen were killed.

The passenger in the other car was also killed. The driver of the Audi was taken to Memorial Hospital by ambulance.

According to Trooper Brandon Smith, the passenger in the Audi is assigned to Fort Stewart, and lives in Long County. He was 43 Sergeant 1st class. The driver of the Audi is also from Long County.

The driver of the stolen Nissan Sentra was a 19-year-old from Savannah. The passengers in the car were a 40-year-old woman from Midway, and a 32-year-old man from Savannah.

The driver of the Audi is 31 Long County.

Check back later for more updates.