UPDATE

The name of the suspect has been released as 47-year-old Brad Stirewalt of Diamond, Missouri.

CARTHAGE, Mo. — Officer involved shooting in Carthage Sunday night leaves a man dead. 2446 South Grand Ave is where a late model Ford Ranger pickup sat surrounded by crime scene tape and flashing police lights late Sunday night into the early morning hours of Monday.

Trooper Sam Carpenter of Missouri State Highway Patrol Troop D at Springfield tells us that the shots were fired around 11:30 PM. But it started before that about 8 miles south in Newton County.

“A little after 11:00 PM Newton County dispatch received a report of an intoxicated driver in the area of MO-59 and FF [JR’s Western Wear]. They had a deputy that was able to get behind that vehicle and was following that vehicle waiting for another unit to arrive to provide back up. That vehicle traveled northbound on 59 highway continued on up here into Carthage. At some point in time tried to cut through one of these parking lots here behind us [motioning to Aldi] and met our troopers. At that point one of our troopers tried to initiate a traffic stop. After that, what we know, the subject exited the vehicle. He did have a weapon. He fired shots at our officers. One of our officers was struck in the upper thigh, he is uninjured. And then two of our troopers and one Jasper County Deputy returned fire killing the suspect.”

The trooper that was struck was just grazed. He did not seek medical treatment. Essentially Trooper Carpenter told us it tore his clothing, a very close call. He went home overnight and will be on administrative duty until the investigation into the shooting is complete, which is normal protocol for officer involved shootings.

The male suspect is not being identified at this time. Family was notified overnight.

The investigation on the shooting is being mapped out by the MSHP crash team. Crime scene tape was removed overnight around 3:15 AM. M&M Wrecker towed the vehicle and the area of South Grand in Carthage resumed normal activity.

We will update this story here on Four States Home Page and our Joplin News First news tab.