Three minutes.

It took roughly that amount of time from an attempted traffic stop in a construction zone to evolve into a high-speed police chase of about two miles to cross the Massachusetts state line and end in a fiery crash that claimed the lives of two civilians on Route 5 in Longmeadow.

Forty-seven-year-old David Cerosimo’s Ford F-150 pickup truck reached speeds in excess of 74 mph along the busy roadway as he led Enfield, Connecticut, cruisers on the chase on Aug. 22, dashcam footage, radio transmissions and police records, obtained by The Republican, show.

When it was over, Cerosimo and postal carrier Dan Nacin, out on a pick-up route that morning, were dead.

Enfield Police Chief Alaric J. Fox defends the pursuit as “appropriate.” In an interview this week, Fox, who is a retired Connecticut State Police commander, said, “Preliminarily, the officers’ conduct appears to be in compliance with the law and policy,” declining to answer additional questions.

The chase remains the subject of investigations by state police in both Connecticut and Massachusetts.

The radio transmissions indicate the Police Department commander monitoring the pursuit and at least one of the officers racing after Cersosimo’s truck didn’t know why the chaotic chase began in the first place. This appears to violate one of the central tenets of the department’s own policy about police pursuits — a topic that has become increasingly controversial in law enforcement across the country.

“It should be realized that in all pursuit situations there are inherent risks to the officer, the violator and the general public. Therefore, the decision to pursue must weigh all pertinent factors including the seriousness of the initial violation,” the Enfield department’s policy reads

Footage recorded by an Enfield police cruiser shows a pursuit on Aug. 22, 2019 that ended in a crash that killed the suspect and a United States Postal Service worker.

The records obtained by The Republican in a request filed in August show that the events began at 11:13 a.m. when officer Mark Granaudo, working a private detail in a construction zone and believing the operator may have been under the influence of alcohol, shouted excitedly over the airwaves: “Stop that truck, right now! Stop that truck! Get the plate number and call it in!”

In the midst of more crackling radio transmissions, there is a lightning-quick reference to “maybe (driving under the influence),” which appears to get lost over the following three minutes.

“What’s the vehicle wanted for, ultimately?” the supervisor asks just seconds before 11:16 a.m.

“84? What do we want him for?” one of the officers in pursuit asks in response.

“He signal 4’d (hit) another car at Route 5 and Brainard Road,” a third reports, referring to the pickup having clipped a car earlier in the chase, cracking the sedan’s tail light.

At the moment of impact, the secondary cruiser was traveling at 72 miles per hour.

At 11:16:25, a female officer involved in the chase — whose dashcam video shows the cruiser careening at speeds of up to 75 mph over double-yellow lines, at times weaving through oncoming traffic — reports she’ll advise her colleagues of what the pickup does at the state line.

“We’ve already let the (Massachusetts) agencies know. Let me know if he ends up going southbound,” the supervisor states.

“Yeah, we’re crossing in to (Massachusetts) now, crossing into the … Oh! And we’re crashed … Start me medics … He just hit a mail truck crashed right at the line … Start me everybody …Yeah, it’s bad,” states officer Jaime Kaplan, the woman officer in the second car.

The dashcam footage for the lead cruiser in the chase was inoperable because the hard drive had been filled up two days earlier and was not recording, according to police officials.

Police and fire officials quickly converged at the crash scene as the pickup truck went up in flames, according to witnesses and the radio transmissions obtained by The Republican.

Police reports state the only remaining citations Cersosimo would have faced had he not been killed were traffic violations. Results of Cersosimo’s toxicology report are still pending with the Massachusetts state medical examiner’s office, according to a spokesman for the Hampden County district attorney.

“Had Operator # 1 survived, he would have been cited for (following too close to another vehicle) and (improper use of a turn signal),” one report says.

The officer who was driving the secondary cruiser approaches the vehicles following the crash.

In his report, Granaudo said he was directing traffic that morning when he heard a vehicle’s horn blare about three feet behind him.

“I approached the driver’s side window of the vehicle and asked this party, ‘Is there a problem?’ This male party answered ‘your (sic) in my way!’ He had slurred speech, and his eyes were half open. This party had a ‘blank stare’ and was looking straight ahead while I was talking to him. Based on my training and experience with making multiple (driving under the influence) arrests, I strongly believe this party to be intoxicated from alcohol, drugs or both,” Granaudo wrote in his report.

Cersosimo drove a few inches forward when Granaudo ordered him to stop and then proceeded through the intersection “quickly” and headed north on Route 5, the officer added.

Based on the Enfield Police Department’s own matrix, the chase appears a good candidate to have been terminated — with risk factors including at least Kaplan’s cruiser speeding up to twice the posted limit and driving against oncoming traffic. In addition, the allegations against Cersosimo amounted to a misdemeanor offense at worst, motor vehicle violations at best.

The mandatory pursuit critique, a review required as a matter of policy, is being withheld by the Police Department pending the resolution of the other investigations, officials said.

Safeguards are built into most police pursuit policies, according to former West Springfield Police Chief Ronald Campurciani, now chief for the Mooresville, North Carolina Police Department.

“That’s because of the dangerousness of the chase to everybody — to the public, to the officers, to the person they’re chasing — they’re just dangerous,” Campurciani said.

Many departments have rules that dictate officers should only chase suspects wanted for dangerous felonies, while others cap chases at certain speeds, according to Campurciani.

“More times than people realize, chases are called off,” he said. “Whether it’s because the person is just too dangerous or what you’re chasing him for is not worth the risk.”

Family members of both Nacin and Cersosimo did not respond to requests for comment.