A shoplifting incident at an Oneonta Wal-Mart led to a death on an Alabama highway Saturday night, according to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency.Oneonta Police Chief Charles Clifton said officers responded to a shoplifting call at the Wal-Mart on 2nd Avenue East around 8:17 p.m. Saturday.Clifton said a male and female loaded $1,500 worth of merchandise from the store to a U-Haul truck in the parking lot. The chief said the suspects were living in the truck.Loss prevention at Wal-Mart chased the suspects into the parking lot, causing the suspects to drive away before they were able to load the items.ALEA Trooper Chuck Daniel said he spotted the U-Haul truck driving slowly on Alabama Highway 75 north of Oneonta. Daniel said he had his blue lights on, but was not in pursuit of the truck. Daniel said the truck appeared to be pulling over when a woman exited the vehicle and somehow ended up under it. She died on scene.The woman has been identified as 34-year-old Crystal Carlson, of Adamsville. Oneonta Police arrested the driver, 32-year-old Jimmy Smith, of Jefferson County, at the scene. Smith is charged with second-degree theft and other charges are pending. ALEA said troopers are conducting a post-incident investigation at the request of the Blount County District Attorney.

A shoplifting incident at an Oneonta Wal-Mart led to a death on an Alabama highway Saturday night, according to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency.

Oneonta Police Chief Charles Clifton said officers responded to a shoplifting call at the Wal-Mart on 2nd Avenue East around 8:17 p.m. Saturday.

Advertisement

Clifton said a male and female loaded $1,500 worth of merchandise from the store to a U-Haul truck in the parking lot. The chief said the suspects were living in the truck.

Loss prevention at Wal-Mart chased the suspects into the parking lot, causing the suspects to drive away before they were able to load the items.

ALEA Trooper Chuck Daniel said he spotted the U-Haul truck driving slowly on Alabama Highway 75 north of Oneonta. Daniel said he had his blue lights on, but was not in pursuit of the truck. Daniel said the truck appeared to be pulling over when a woman exited the vehicle and somehow ended up under it. She died on scene.

The woman has been identified as 34-year-old Crystal Carlson, of Adamsville.

Oneonta Police arrested the driver, 32-year-old Jimmy Smith, of Jefferson County, at the scene. Smith is charged with second-degree theft and other charges are pending.

ALEA said troopers are conducting a post-incident investigation at the request of the Blount County District Attorney.