Warning: A video attached to this article contains graphic violence.

WAUSAU – The six police officers involved in a shooting that killed a 35-year-old man in January on the city's west side will not face criminal charges, the Marathon County District Attorney's Office announced Friday.

Wausau police and Marathon County sheriff's deputies responded Jan. 16 to the area of North 12th Avenue and Arctic Lane near the Urban West apartments for a report of someone trying to steal a vehicle. Officers found Jack D. Bolinger, who was armed with a handgun and fired at police and a person in a nearby vehicle, Marathon County District Attorney Theresa Wetzsteon said during a press conference Friday.

Officers shot Bolinger, who fell to the ground but kept the gun in his hand and pointed it again at police, Wetzsteon said. Officers then shot Bolinger again, and he died from his injuries at the scene.

Bolinger was shot at least 13 times, Wetzsteon said. An autopsy found he had methamphetamine and THC in his system.

The officers involved in the shooting are:

Wausau Police Officer Shawn Pierschalla

Wausau Police Officer Benjamin Price

Wausau Police Officer Michael Horejs

Marathon County Sheriff's Patrol Lt. Steven Denovi

Marathon County Sheriff's Deputy James Toth

Marathon County Sheriff's Deputy Brandon Stroik

Wetzsteon reviewed the investigation conducted by the state Department of Justice's Division of Criminal Investigation and determined the officers' actions "were justified under the circumstances" and they "acted in accordance with their sworn duties and training as law enforcement officers."

RELATED: One dead following officer-involved shooting on Wausau's west side Thursday night

RELATED:Facebook video shows person lying on ground before Wausau police shooting

Standoff between officers and Bolinger went on for 10 minutes

On the afternoon of Jan. 16, officers responded to a home on Arctic Lane in Wausau after a woman reported a man was trying to break into her car. The woman had turned on her car and left it idling in the driveway to warm up before she got in, Wetzsteon said. She saw the man pulling on the car door handle.

The man then ran toward North 12th Avenue, the woman said.

Pierschalla and Stroik searched the neighborhood and went to the Urban West apartment building, located at 1425 N. 12th Avenue. The building has an underground parking garage.

Pierschalla began walking toward the garage while Stroik walked toward a brick wall outside the garage next to the dumpsters, body camera footage shows. As he was approaching the wall, he found Bolinger hiding behind it. Bolinger had his pistol pointed at Stroik.

Stroik yelled, "Gun! Gun! Gun!" and he and Pierschalla ran into the garage while shooting toward Bolinger.

Body camera footage shows Bolinger shot at Pierschalla and Stroik from behind the wall and the officers fired back from inside the garage. Then Bolinger ran out from behind the wall and shot at a car that was pulling into the driveway. His bullet hit the car's hood but no one inside the car was hurt, Wetzsteon said.

As Bolinger was running out from behind the wall, Pierschalla and Stroik continued shooting at him. Bolinger was hit and fell on the ground, body camera footage shows. He still had his gun in his hand.

Pierschalla and Stroik and other officers who later arrived at the scene were heard repeatedly throughout the video telling Bolinger to put his gun down.

"I'm going to shoot you again. Drop the gun," Stroik said.

"Drop the gun so we can get you some help," Pierschalla said.

The standoff lasted for about 10 minutes.

According to Wetzsteon, officers could see the slide on Bolinger's gun was back, meaning he could not shoot it. At the end of the standoff, officers saw Bolinger move the slide forward and point the gun at police. That's when officers fatally shot him.

Before fatally shooting Bolinger, officers also fired less lethal bean bag rounds at him, Wetzsteon said.

In addition to Pierschalla and Stroik, Price, Horejs and Denovi also shot at Bolinger. Toth fired the bean bag rounds at him.

Stroik had previously been involved in a police shooting and Toth had prior contact with Bolinger.

In 2017, Stroik was cleared in the fatal police shooting of John J. Hall in Rib Mountain. Hall took another man hostage at gunpoint and was hiding in a pickup truck. Stroik shot him from 45 yards away after officers couldn't persuade Hall to drop his gun.

Toth was at Bollinger's house in Eau Pleine about two months before the shooting when police arrested Bollinger on suspicion of disorderly conduct after acting "aggressive" toward deputies, according to a criminal complaint.

RELATED: Person shot by police in Wausau was trying to steal vehicles, fired at officers, bystander. DOJ says

RELATED: Man killed by officers faced court charges; deputy shot another man in 2017

Bolinger had a history of substance abuse

Bolinger had a lethal amount of meth in his system at the time of the shooting, an autopsy showed. That much meth, Wetzsteon said, could cause "confusion, hallucinations and delusions" and "violent and abusive behavior."

"Mr. Bolinger's death is tragic," Wetzsteon said. "There's little doubt that methamphetamine and THC intoxication were significantly contributing factors to Mr. Bolinger's choices on January 16, 2020, and thereby led to his death."

Investigators interviewed Bolinger's parents, who said their son had struggled with substance abuse since he was prescribed pain medication after a car crash about 15 years ago. He went to rehab in 2019 and was sober for about three months.

Bolinger's father spoke with his son the day of the shooting when Bolinger called to ask him for money after he ran out of gas on Camp Phillips Road and didn't have his wallet, Wetzsteon said. His mother told investigators he sounded "paranoid."

He told his parents he was being followed and said, "We're under siege." His parents said Bolinger didn't sound like himself when they talked to him on the phone the day of the shooting.

Wetzsteon addressed Facebook video

A neighbor who lived near the apartment building where the shooting took place uploaded a video of the incident the same night. The video is just over a minute long and shows officers fatally shooting Bolinger.

In the video, officers can be heard yelling at Bolinger, who is lying on the ground, although it's not clear what they're saying. Bolinger lays still at first but then begins waving something in the air. It's not clear from the video it's a gun. Officers then begin firing at him more than a dozen times and it appears he's hit multiple times.

People have viewed the video almost 2,000 times and it has nearly 2,500 shares.

Because of the video, people formed opinions about the shooting without knowing all the facts and circumstances, Wetzsteon said.

"To make decisions without knowledge of the surrounding facts and circumstances can result in unwarranted damage to the critical relationships between our community's law enforcement officers and our citizens," she said. "Further, the family and friends of the civilians involved in the incident can be further traumatized by the publication of the death of their loved one. Neither should be acceptable. Please use the power of social media with social responsibility."

After the press conference, Wausau Police Chief Ben Bliven posted a statement on the department's Facebook page and said he was proud of the officers and "the actions they took to save their own lives and the lives of people in our community."

Contact Natalie Brophy at 715-216-5452 or nbrophy@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @brophy_natalie or Facebook at facebook.com/bynataliebrophy.