The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office and Yerington Police Department will not be following Washoe County Sheriff’s Office and Reno and Sparks police departments’ new policy of releasing body camera footage within two weeks of a police or deputy shooting.

“There’s no way we can do that,” Lyon County Sheriff Frank Hunewill said. “We don’t have the resources … He (Washoe County Sheriff Darin Balaam) has a whole division – we have one guy.”

Washoe, Reno and Sparks law enforcement agencies announced last week that body camera footage from officer-involved shootings will be released promptly. The Reno Police Department announced investigators will be given 30 days to release footage on incidents that involve multiple officers and witnesses.

Footage stays in the Lyon County sheriff’s office system for 60 days unless it is tagged with a code that saves it for a year. Any incidents that involve bodily harm or death are kept “a very long time,” Hunewill said.

Yerington City Manager Robert Switzer said the city police department doesn’t have a policy for how long footage is retained, or when it is released.

“It’s definitely something we should be looking into,” he said.

Lyon County footage not yet released

Lyon County and Yerington law enforcement implemented the use of body cameras in 2018.

Since then, the Lyon County Sheriff’s Office has had two officer shootings. The Yerington Police Department has not had any.

In September 2019, Robert Anderson, 43, of North Highlands, Calif., was killed while Lyon County deputies were responding to a domestic violence call in Silver Springs.

According to the original report by the Lyon County Sheriff’s Office, Anderson attacked deputies.

In January, three deputies were suspended after a man was shot and killed off Cardon Lane in Yerington.

In that incident, a caller reported his neighbor, later identified as Owen Barton, had come to his house threatening him with a handgun. Deputies contacted Barton, who refused to put his hands up and advanced on them before being shot, according to the sheriff's office.

Footage from neither incident has been released, nor have results of the investigations. Hunewill said he has delayed releasing footage so as to not compromise investigations or influence decisions by the district attorney’s office.

Agency on the fence

Hunewill said a large obstacle to releasing footage earlier is that his office farms out so much of its investigations.

Both the Yerington and Silver Springs incidents were investigated internally by the Lyon County Sheriff’s Office detective’s division, as well as reviewed by the Lyon County Sheriff’s Employee’s Association. The incidents are also investigated by the Nevada Department of Public Safety’s Investigation Division and the Lyon County District Attorney’s Office.

“We’re one of those agencies that’s on the fence. At any given moment, we can fall on either side of it,” Hunewill said. “We don’t have the resources Washoe and Clark do. We’re also fortunate we don’t have number of incidents they do.”

With the Silver Springs shooting, it took four months to get a report back from the state’s investigation division. Lyon County Sheriff’s Office still hasn’t received a report from the Yerington shooting in January, Hunewill said.

Amy Alonzo covers Mason Valley and rural Nevada. Reach her at aalonzo@masonvalleynews.com or (775) 741-8588. Here's how you can support ongoing coverage and local journalism.