Kenneth Haugabook, charged with vehicular manslaughter -- Hamilton Co Sheriff's Ofc

John Kallmeyer -- photo provided by Tricia Collins

John Kallmeyer, right, with his mother and a friend -- from Tricia Collins

John Kallmeyer -- photo provided by Rob Duncan

Update: Friday, April 25, 2008:

Kenneth Haugabook was sentenced Friday to 25 years in prison.

Haugabook pled guilty last month to death of motorcyclist John Kallmeyer.

Update: 10 a.m. Monday:

Bond was set for Kenneth Haugabook at $1.5 million.

Original story:

(SPRINGFIELD TOWNSHIP, OH) -- A Hamilton man was scheduled to be arraigned Monday morning after a crash that killed 54-year-old John Kallmeyer of Middletown on his motorcycle in Springfield Township early Sunday.

Springfield Township Police say 37-year-old Kenneth Haugabook did a U-turn and took off when he was supposed to stop at a DUI checkpoint on Pleasant Road at Symmes in Fairfield. A Butler County sheriff's deputy Police say just as Haugabook crossed the county line and reached Springfield Township, he ran into an SUV with a family in it, and also hit Kallmeyer.

Police say Haugabook took off on foot after wrecking his car, but was caught in the area several hours later. He was charged with Reckless Homicide and Vehicular Manslaughter.

Court records indicate Haugabook had a record of multiple diving offenses, and several cases of resisting arrest or similar charges. He was scheduled to appear in Hamilton County Municipal Court.

John Kallmeyer's younger sister Margaret Geier says he was a west side native with a huge love of motorcycles and horses. From a young age he raised and bred horses, including a set of Clydesdales that used to appear in the Lebanon Christmas parade. She said he moved to Butler County in order to have more land available to pursue his interest.

Kallmeyer, who was a Western Hills graduate and a U.S. Army vet, worked as a cable technician and eventually started his own business installing cable and satellite equipment. Geier says that when he eventually sold his horses because of the time commitment, he spent more time with his other passion, motorcycles.

Kallmeyer left behind a large family. He was only the second in his family to die, after his father, leaving behind his mother and thirteen brothers and sisters.