SAN ANGELO — When shots rang out in San Angelo last week, news spread quickly about a man fatally shot by law enforcement.

Law enforcement said the man fled from police — first in a vehicle and then on foot with a shotgun — leading to his death and an injured K-9 officer Jan. 24, 2020.

On Thursday, Jan. 30, law enforcement confirmed Scott Joseph Weber Jr., 27, was the suspect in the shooting.

His ex-girlfriend Mercedes Rios, who is pregnant with his child, learned of his death from her sister and Weber's ex-wife the morning after he died. Rios and Weber dated before the relationship ended in December.

"I didn't believe it at first," Rios said. "He had a really big heart for everybody. If he saw (someone) needing help, even if he didn't have it, he'd try to help them regardless."

She remembered him as a goofy, kind man who had some struggles.

"He was doing bad stuff at a point, which led up to this, but other than that he was a caring person," said Rios, who is due to deliver their son in March.

Weber was previously convicted in February 2019 for possession of methamphetamine, according to online court records. In November 2019, Weber was arrested after police found a shotgun and marijuana in a car he was driving. Court records for the November charge show the case as dismissed due to his death.

Chase turned to gunfire in Central neighborhood, police say

Around 7:50 p.m. Friday, Jan. 24, 2020, Tom Green County Sheriff’s Office deputies attempted a traffic stop on a speeding vehicle north of San Angelo's city limits. The driver fled and a pursuit began, according to a press conference that night.

The vehicle pursuit ended when the car crashed into a Texas Department of Public Safety trooper's vehicle on West Shiloh Street. Weber left the vehicle, which contained three passengers. Two of the passengers were arrested on outstanding warrants, police said at the time. The passengers have not been identified by law enforcement.

A resident told police they saw Weber fleeing officers and holding a shotgun. Another resident said Weber was in their backyard, according to the press conference.

Officers found Weber with a shotgun in a backyard of a residence in the 700 block of North Madison Street. Gunfire was exchanged around 8:08 p.m., according to audio from a nearby home surveillance video.

During the gunfire, Weber was killed and a K-9 officer was injured. The Texas Rangers will investigate the shooting and no other details will be released by police or sheriff's deputies until the findings are final, officials said.

Alana Edgin is a journalist covering Crime and Courts in West Texas. Send her a news tip at aedgin@gannett.com. Consider supporting West Texas journalism with a subscription to GoSanAngelo.com