When a Kansas City, Kansas, woman was killed in a crash following a police chase late Monday, her godson asked why police don't end chases when they go into neighborhoods.

Advertisement Police chase policy questioned after woman dies in KCK crash Graciela Olivas struck by car fleeing officers Share Copy Link Copy

A 62-year-old Kansas City, Kan., woman died from injuries she suffered in a crash that followed a police chase late Monday night.Graciela Olivas was just three blocks from home when a car ran into her vehicle at 34th Street and Shawnee Drive. Investigators said a driver who was trying to elude police ran a stop sign and hit Olivas.The Kansas Highway Patrol said the crash came at the end of a three-block chase.Kansas City, Kan., police said they spotted the driver north of Shawnee Drive in an area known for drug activity. When officers saw the man violating traffic laws, they said they turned on their lights and siren and tried to stop him.Police said the man ran away from the scene of the crash. He was captured a short time later. The man was still in custody Tuesday afternoon, but charges against him had not been filed.Olivas' godson, Raymond Hernandez, said he thinks police need to think long and hard before pursuing someone through a neighborhood."It turns into a cat-and-mouse game with them, and I don't think they realize who they're hurting at the end because everybody walked away from this, besides an innocent family," he said.People who knew Olivas said she was the kind of person who would do anything for anyone. Her boss of 26 years said she was one of his favorite people, thoughtful of others and dedicated to her work."If you needed something, she would give it to you," said her friend Elva Hernandez. "If you needed help, she was a wonderful person. I'm going to miss her dearly."The Olivas family released a statement Tuesday."Graciela was a beloved wife, mother and grandmother. She was the center of our lives and words cannot express our immense grief and sadness," the statement said.KMBC 9 News requested a copy of the pursuit policy for the Kansas City Kansas Police Department. The department denied the request, saying that releasing the policy is not in the public interest and could interfere with investigations.