West Des Moines police have identified the man accused of firing shots at multiple vehicles in the city before fatally shooting himself outside a gas station.

Robert Nolan Belshe of Ankeny drove to three different locations Thursday and fired shots before turning the gun on himself outside the QuikTrip on 22nd Street in West Des Moines, according to a Friday news release from police. The 25-year-old has since died of his injuries.

Police believe Belshe fired a firearm several times throughout the city in the span of about 10 minutes, according to the release.

"(It was a) rapidly evolving incident that, due to the cooperation of neighboring departments, we were able to respond to both the Valley West Drive and QuikTrip scenes very quickly to contain the suspect," West Des Moines police Sgt. Jason Bryan said Friday.

Police are investigating several aspects of the crime, including if the gun was legally owned and if Belsher had a history of mental health issues.

Bryan said his department had no prior interactions with the man before Thursday. Investigators do not yet know if he was shooting to intimidate, instead of hurt, others but the department is grateful no one else was harmed by the shots, Bryan said.

A white truck was seen at about 12:25 p.m. Thursday stopping on the shoulder in the 4700 block of Interstate 235, police say.

Witnesses told officers that the driver, believed to be Belshe, fired shots in the air then backed up on the shoulder to 50th Street and exited the highway. Shell casings were found in the area.

About five minutes later, that same truck was traveling southbound in the 500 block of Valley West Drive, less than a mile from Valley High School, before making "an abrupt U-turn," police say.

Belshe then fired a shot at another motorist before departing northbound. The person shot at was not injured, but a vehicle was struck.

Dispatchers for West Des Moines police were notified at 12:34 p.m. of more shots being fired at QuikTrip, 1451 22nd St. Investigators believe Belshe rammed another vehicle in the gas station parking lot and fired additional shots at other vehicles.

Police do not know of a connection between Belshe and the people who he shot at and rammed, Bryan said. The victims appear to have been chosen at random.

He then went into the store, but did not threaten anyone or fire shots. When he exited the store, at about 12:35 p.m., an officer confronted him.

Without warning and before talking with police, Belshe shot himself just feet away from the business' entrance, police say. He was taken to an area hospital, where he died Thursday night.

No other injuries were reported.

► Previously:Police: Man fires at multiple vehicles before shooting himself outside West Des Moines gas station

Follow the Register on Facebook and Twitter for more news. Tyler Davis can be contacted at tjdavis@dmreg.com or on Twitter @TDavisDMR.

Your subscription makes work like this possible. Get exclusive subscriber content and more at DesMoinesRegister.com/Deal.