An unlicensed driver who was high on methamphetamine when he crashed a stolen pickup in Riverside in 2018, killing a passenger, was convicted of murder Thursday, Jan. 23.

A Superior Court jury in Riverside also found Arthur Armando Alvarez, 28, of Redlands, guilty of felony evading, hit and run causing injury or death, grand theft auto, receiving a stolen vehicle and two counts of driving under the influence of drugs, causing injury. Alvarez is scheduled to be sentenced on March 20.

Jon Karl Smith died when the pickup collided with another vehicle and caught fire. Three people in the other vehicle were injured.

Prosecutors argued in a trial brief that a murder charge was appropriate because Alvarez knew the potential consequences of dangerous driving.

In 2009, he pleaded guilty to felony evading and grand theft auto after leading San Bernardino police on a pursuit that ended with the car he was driving fishtailing violently and going airborne before smashing into a center divider. Alvarez was apprehended after he ran, the trial brief said.

The trial brief noted that the state Supreme Court in 1981 ruled that vehicular homicide cases can also be considered implied-malice murder when “a person, knowing that his conduct endangers the life of another, nonetheless acts deliberately with conscious disregard for life.”

On July 7, 2018, about 8 a.m., Corona police attempted to pull over a Toyota Tacoma that a 911 caller had reported was being hotwired in the parking lot of the Jack in the Box on Green River Road. The driver of the Tacoma, which had been reported stolen June 1, led police on an 11-mile, seven-minute pursuit during which the vehicle ran red lights and sped at 100 mph at times, the trial brief said. The erratic driving prompted police to call off the chase.

Then about eight minutes later, a witness said, the Tacoma sped past him on the eastbound 91 Freeway near Adams Street in Riverside at about 95 mph. The pickup later veered suddenly from the carpool lane to the exit at Central Avenue. The Tacoma traveled through a red light and struck a vehicle with a man and a son and daughter inside. All three were injured.

As the Tacoma caught fire, Alvarez tried to pull Smith out. When he couldn’t, he rescued his brother Mark. Alvarez then ran away before being caught by witnesses, the trial brief said. One witness said he heard Alvarez say, “I killed him,” “I ran through the red light,” and that he “couldn’t go back to jail.”

A test of Alvarez’s blood determined that he had been using methamphetamine, the trial brief said, and his driver’s license had been suspended in 2015 for failure to appear in court.