PHOENIX — A man who threatened people with a rifle outside a hospital was shot and killed by Scottsdale police, authorities said Tuesday evening.

Scottsdale police at about 6:50 p.m. received an emergency call from the HonorHealth Scottsdale Osborn Medical Center near Osborn Road and Drinkwater Boulevard about the suspect’s behavior, Sgt. Ben Hoster told KTAR News 92.3 FM.

Before police arrived, security at the hospital wrestled the rifle away from the suspect, according to Hoster.

When officers showed up, the man attempted to rush them with a knife and was shot by an officer, Hoster said.

We are investigating an officer involved shooting at Honor Health Osborn hospital. One male subject has been shot. No officers injured. Osborn Rd and Drinkwater Blvd are closed in the immediate area. PIO in route to the scene. — ScottsdalePD (@ScottsdalePD) January 29, 2020

“One of the officers, feeling threatened for his life and the lives of his partners, fired his weapon and the suspect was stopped and fell to the ground,” Hoster said.

The suspect, who was identified Wednesday as 27-year-old Joshua Greenleaf, was later pronounced dead in the hospital.

Police said Greenleaf was at the hospital trying to find his ex-girlfriend, with whom he was in a “domestic violence relationship,” and he had made “suicidal comments.”

No officers were injured in the shooting.

The immediate area around the hospital was closed indefinitely for the investigation.

HonorHealth said in a statement Wednesday the incident “was a domestic dispute, and the hospital was not directly targeted in any way.”

“Our staff responded quickly to this incident,” the statement read. “Their actions helped keep the situation isolated, and our patients and staff members are safe.”

The incident was the sixth officer-involved shooting in the Valley so far this year and second in Scottsdale, according to statistics compiled by KTAR News 92.3 FM.

﻿

KTAR News 92.3 FM’s Gabriel Gamino contributed to this report.

Follow @KTAR923

We want to hear from you. Have a story idea or tip? Pass it along to the KTAR News team here.