An hours-long standoff shut down State Route 8 on the afternoon of Jan. 29 in Deposit, NY ended with a man being shot and killed by State Police.

Around 2 p.m. that day, police said they were dispatched to an active incident responding to a possible burglary in progress.

There, they found Clint Stevens, 34, of Binghamton. According to Pressconnects, Stevens was inside his parents’ home. The report of the potential robbery came from Steven’s father who was not home at the time of the incident.

When police arrived, they spotted Stevens inside with a long gun. At that time, he pointed the gun in the trooper’s direction. Troopers retreated to cover and notified dispatchers who sent additional uniform patrols to the scene.

Stevens had just been arrested the day before under mental health law and taken to Binghamton General Hospital.

When additional troopers showed up, the suspect had emerged from the home holding two long guns, one pointed outward and the other pointed at his torso.

New York State Police Capt. Jeffrey VanAuken said of Stevens during the standoff, “At times he said he wanted to be shot. He made statements to be shot by police.”

Troopers initially were unable to get the suspect to put down the weapons. Additional patrol resources were sent to assist with negotiations. Stevens meanwhile, paced back and forth, sometimes agitated and incoherent. They did get him to put down one gun, but he continued to hold a long gun to his torso.

The suspect admitted to police that he was high on methamphetamine.

At approximately 4:30 p.m., police said Stevens calmed to the point where negotiators thought he was going to surrender. Instead, he produced a syringe and proceeded to inject himself with what he said was meth with the long gun placed at his feet.

He then became belligerent and confrontational with the negotiators, smashing windows and objects inside the house.

Around 7:37 p.m., police said Stevens shot two rounds at the Bearcat from inside the residence. Shortly after he emerged from the home, armed with a rifle and a handgun aimed toward the troopers, he was shot and killed.

The investigation is ongoing, and an autopsy has been done on the suspect. Toxicology results are pending.