Update, 4:40 p.m. Wednesday

New details have emerged in Tuesday's deputy-involved fatal shooting of a man in Ono.

Lt. Levi Solada with the Redding Police Department said it all started when the man, 41-year-old Thomas Andrew Barbosa, was the subject of a welfare check.

Solada said a woman called law enforcement at 12:38 p.m. from Denice Way in Cottonwood saying Barbosa was acting irrationally and causing a disturbance, and that she was leaving the area with two juveniles for their safety.

When they left, Solada said Barbosa got in his Ford F-150 and began following them, so Shasta County Sheriff's deputies told her to meet them in the area of the auction yard in Cottonwood.

Barbosa was "the subject of numerous mental health related welfare check calls in the past year" and had a history of suicidal tendencies and lack of cooperation with law enforcement, Solada said.

When deputies got to the auction yard, Barbosa drove off, so deputies started following him and tried to stop him near Gas Point Road and Joanne Lane when he wouldn't pull over, Solada said.

Once a California Highway Patrol helicopter joined the search, deputies called off the chase, Solada said. The chopper could see Barbosa driving westbound on Platina Road for about 15 minutes before it started slowing.

More:Efforts to raise the height of Shasta Dam continue despite Westlands backing out

More:Redding man arrested, accused of burning girlfriend's clothes

Solada said the truck then made a U-turn and drove up a dirt embankment and through a barbed-wire fence. Barbosa then drove the truck to face the cliff and stopped there for several minutes, but then he accelerated and drove off the cliff, Solada said.

The truck flipped several times and came to rest against a tree, so deputies went down the embankment to help Barbosa, officials said.

Barbosa was conscious and refused to follow their commands, arming himself with a fixed-blade knife, Solada said. After a few minutes of negotiations, including "less lethal options," Solada said one Shasta County sheriff's sergeant fired one round from a .223-caliber rifle, hitting and killing Barbosa at the scene despite rescue attempts from medics.

The sergeant hasn't been named.

There weren't any other occupants in the truck.

The investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information on this incident, including possible bystanders, is asked to call RPD's investigations division at 225-4214.

RPD is investigating the incident, following standard protocol for an outside agency to examine department shootings.

Update, 4:25 p.m. Wednesday

The man killed Tuesday has been identified as 41-year-old Thomas Andrew Barbosa, of Cottonwood, coroner's officials said.

His autopsy is pending.

Original story

Law enforcement officers shot and killed a man whose vehicle had gone off a cliff in the Ono area Tuesday afternoon, reports indicate.

SHASCOM scanner reports say the man had driven off a cliff near Nono Road after parking near there around 1:50 p.m. It wasn't clear whether he drove off the cliff intentionally. The man had driven through a fence and down an embankment near the intersection of Nono and Platina Road, dispatchers said.

Earlier reports indicated the man had led officers on a chase and deputies were considering using a spike strip to stop him.

Law enforcement and medics were called to respond, but once they reached the man, they said he wasn't complying with them, dispatchers said.

Dispatchers said the jaws of life were needed to get the man out of the vehicle. But after deputies went to contact him, someone reported no longer needing a medical unit and having had an officer-involved shooting at 2:28 p.m.

The Redding Police Department is now investigating the incident, following standard protocol for an outside agency to examine department shootings. Investigators with that department didn't immediately return a message Tuesday evening.

No additional details were immediately available.

More:A decade of shootings by Shasta County-based law enforcement officers

More:Nine puppies abandoned in Anderson reunited with mom; citations issued for alleged dumping

More:530 Crime Watch: Two arrested in underage alcohol police sting

Correction: A previous version of this story used the wrong spelling for Denice Way.

Alayna Shulman covers a little bit of everything for the Record Searchlight. In particular, she loves writing about the issues of this community through long-form storytelling. Her work often centers on local crime, features and politics, and has won awards for best writing, best business coverage and best investigative reporting in the California News Publishers Association's Better Newspapers Contest. Follow her on Twitter (@ashulman_RS), call her at 530-225-8372 and, to support her work, please subscribe.