CHARLOTTE COUNTY, Fla. — The suspect killed during a deputy-involved shooting in Port Charlotte has been identified as Sean Patrick Constance, 37.

At approximately 2:30 in the morning Thursday, two Charlotte County Sheriff deputies stopped the car Constance was traveling in over a defective tag light.

Once the vehicle pulled in into the parking lot of the Hooters on Tamiami Trail, the two deputies approached the car.

One of the deputies noticed when the passenger, later identified as Constance, opened the passenger door and began to make suspicious movements.

During a press conference Friday, Sheriff Bill Prummell said when deputies approached the passenger's side to see what Constance was doing, Constance grabbed a firearm, raised it, and fired at the deputies, who were within five to ten feet from him.

One of the deputies involved in the shooting is a training deputy, and the other is a trainee with specialized military training.

Sheriff Prummell says the two deputies retreated and returned fire.

The trainee deputy fired six-rounds, striking Constance at least three times.

Constance was transported to a hospital over his injuries and later airlifted to Lee Memorial, where he succumbed to his injuries.

Sheriff Prummell says Constance had a violent criminal history, with a total of twenty-two arrests in Florida and Michigan.

While there is no definitive motive, Sheriff Prummel says Constance had a history of resisting arrest with violence and was a convicted felon on probation in possession of a firearm the night of the shooting.

During the shooting, there were two other people in the car with Constance, the driver and a passenger in the back seat.

CCSO hasn't said if those two people will be facing any charges.

Sheriff Prummell says none of the occupants in the car owned the vehicle, and none are from Charlotte County.

Deputies are still working to determine if the vehicle was stolen and wouldn't confirm if there were illegal substances present, as they are serving a search warrant on the car.

Deputies are still working to determine if the vehicle was stolen and wouldn't confirm if there were illegal substances present, as they are serving a search warrant on the car.

The names of the deputies involved in the shooting will not be released; Sheriff Prummell says they evocated their right to Marcy's Law.

Sheriff Prummell says both deputies are on admin leave and are meeting with counselors to ensure their well being before returning to work.

CCSO says they are working closely with the State Attorney's Office on this investigation.