Marek Mazurek and Christian Sheckler

South Bend Tribune

MISHAWAKA — Gary Chizum was working in the detailing shop at Home Street Auto Sales on Friday evening when he became hungry.

Chizum, the owner of the auto shop at the corner of McKinley Avenue and Home Street, said he turned west onto McKinley, heading to get some food, and was almost hit by a Jeep Cherokee that raced through the red light at a high speed.

“They were flying, man,” Chizum said Monday afternoon from his office. “They looked like they were up on two wheels.”

Moments later that Jeep ran another red light, police say, at the intersection of McKinley and Byrkit avenues, about four blocks west of Home Street, and broadsided a southbound Toyota Camry driven by John Riedle, 58, of South Bend. Riedle was pronounced dead at the scene. His passenger, Laszlo Nemeth, 58, of South Bend, was seriously hurt.

The driver of the Jeep was fleeing police who had been in pursuit for roughly 15 miles.

According to Sgt. Ted Bohner, a spokesman for the Indiana State Police, troopers first began pursuing the Jeep on the U.S. 20 Bypass because it was traveling at 99 miles per hour.

The Jeep, which troopers soon learned was stolen, led police on a high-speed chase through Elkhart and St. Joseph counties, with speeds ranging from 45 miles per hour to “upwards of 100,” according to Bohner.

Bohner did not know how fast officers were driving when the crash occurred, but said troopers pulled back in their pursuit near the intersection of Home and McKinley because of traffic.

“When we come to an intersection and there’s traffic, we aren’t going to just fly through an intersection just because our lights and sirens are on,” Bohner said. “We’re going to slow down and make sure all traffic in all directions sees us before proceeding through.”

Chizum, who had pulled onto the side of the road just west of the intersection at McKinley and Home after almost being hit by the Jeep, recalled seeing four police cars trailing the suspect “a ways off,” but still traveling at high speed.

“When the cops came and they flew by me, my truck went like this they were going so fast,” Chizum said, demonstrating how his truck began shaking.

Friday’s chase is being investigated, as are all vehicular pursuits, and Bohner said there is no evidence to indicate state police violated the department’s policy regarding pursuits.

According to that policy, officers have the discretion to initiate a pursuit, though a chase should cease when “the need for immediate apprehension is clearly outweighed by the risk to the public’s safety.”

The state police’s policy does not specify what offenses necessitate a pursuit, but does include a number of factors for officers to consider when initiating a chase such as road conditions, the safety of the public, traffic, the types of vehicles involved and the reason police attempted to perform a traffic stop in the first place.

“This is after a stolen vehicle,” Bohner said. “They were driving without regard for the public’s safety before they had any type of police encounter.”

According to a search of news clips, Friday’s crash marked at least the 10th death since 2014 in crashes that resulted from high-speed chases or other police activity in St. Joseph and Elkhart counties.

Police consider high-speed chases to be among the most perilous parts of an officer’s job, and one that requires a delicate balance between catching suspected criminals and avoiding unintended danger to the public.

The danger of high-speed chases has led some critics to call on departments to ban pursuits in all but the most urgent circumstances.

Around the United States, a few police departments have done away with chases except in response to violent felonies. According to PursuitSAFETY, a national group that advocates to limit high-speed chases, restricting chases to violent crimes would eliminate about 90% of pursuits.

But most police forces, including local departments, have implemented few hard-and-fast rules against high-speed chases, leaving decisions on whether to pursue a suspect mostly up to an officer’s judgment.

Bohner said the public often focuses on the actions of police in pursuits, when it should focus more on the actions of those running from law enforcement.

“So often the question is why did the police chase him?” Bohner said. “Very rarely is it why didn’t that person stop?”

Passengers arrested

After the crash, which occurred after 7:30 p.m. Friday, the driver of the stolen Jeep ran away on foot. As of Monday night, he had yet to be caught or identified by police. The St. Joseph County Fatal Crash Team is investigating the crash.

Four passengers were in the Jeep at the time of the crash and three of them were treated for minor injuries. All four were detained by police. On Monday, St. Joseph County prosecutors announced charges of armed robbery against three of the passengers. The charges are unrelated to Friday's incident.

The passengers were identified as Sedgwick Jackson, Janelle Fritz and Makayla Roundtree, all 19. Jackson and Fritz are also charged with kidnapping in connection with the robbery last month. A fourth passenger, Deshaun Shields, 24, was arrested on a warrant for an unrelated misdemeanor charge.

In court documents, prosecutors alleged Jackson used the dating app Tinder to set up a Jan. 21 meeting with a man who was looking to meet a woman for sex. When the man arrived at a local apartment complex, he met Roundtree, and the two went out to dinner.

When they came back from dinner, Jackson allegedly pulled a gun on the man and ordered him into the passenger seat of the man’s truck. From the backseat, Jackson allegedly held the gun to the man while Fritz took $60. With Fritz driving, they allegedly told the man they were going to an ATM to get more of his money, and threatened to take him into the country and shoot him.

The man eventually jumped from the moving truck at Lincoln Way and Ardmore Trail, several miles from the apartments.

It is unclear whether the driver of the Jeep in Friday’s chase was also a suspect in the previous crime.