Officers initially responded to a call of a battery in progress outside a business on the 3600 block of North Ashland. | Google

Update 11:10 a.m. — The deceased gunman has been identified by a source as 31-year-old Jeremy Grayson.



Update 8:58 a.m. — In a statement released to media, Chicago police said officers responded to a call of a disturbance on the 3600 block of North Ashland around 5:15 a.m. While in the area, a man shot a victim in the neck and cheek, then fled on foot. The victim is in surgery.

Police located the offender who shot at them, according to the statement. The officers returned fire, killing the offender, police said. A weapon was recovered.

One police officer was also taken to a hospital for treatment of minor injuries that he suffered in the foot chase, according to the statement.

Chicago police said a gunman used this weapon to shoot a victim and fire at police on the 3600 block of North Ashland. | CPD

Update 9:35 a.m — Police said in a news conference that the initial battery in progress call was at Tai’s Til 4, a late-hour bar that closes at 5 a.m. on Sunday mornings. A CWB source identified the injured officer as a 49-year-old, 20-year veteran of the police force. The source said the injured officer also shot the alleged offender. That officer will be placed on administrative duties for 30 days per department policy.

The following is based on initial information gathered from various sources. There are many unanswered questions and the situation remains fluid. CWB’s reporting will be updated as details are confirmed.

A police officer shot an armed person while handling a battery in progress call on the 3600 block of North Ashland in Lakeview early Sunday, according to Chicago police and initial reports from persons at the scene.

As of this report, a CPD spokesperson has only said, “an armed individual encountered officers and was shot by police.”

Our exclusive and original reporting is 100% reader-funded. Please make a contribution to our operating fund or purchase a subscription today.

Around 5:15 a.m., police responded to a call of people fighting outside of a business on the 3600 block of North Ashland. The first arriving officers did not see anyone fighting and they continued their investigation.

About 20 minutes later, an officer became involved in a foot pursuit of an individual on the 3600 block of North Ashland. One officer stated that the man he was chasing had a gun in his hand and was firing shots. Shots were also fired by at least one police officer.

911 callers summoned an ambulance for a person shot outside 3622 North Ashland as the foot pursuit was underway. CPD has not officially said who shot the individual. The department has not released any information about the person who was shot or their condition. CWB has learned that the person is being treated at Illinois Masonic Medical Center.

The foot pursuit ended with the allegedly armed suspect being fatally shot by police near the intersection of Marshfield and Waveland. An ammunition magazine was found near the scene, police said.

One of the pursuing officers was taken to Swedish Covenant Hospital, but police have not issued any information about the officer’s injuries.

Officers continued to search the area for a second man who may have been armed. They described him as a Hispanic man who stands about 5’7” tall wearing a gray sweater. He appeared intoxicated and was last seen northbound from Waveland and Marshfield, officers said.

Investigators from the Civilian Office of Police Accountability were on the scene this morning.

CWBChicago will post additional updates throughout the morning.