Donna Thornton

donna.thornton@gadsdentimes.com

ALBERTVILLE — Marshall County Sheriff Phil Sims identified the man shot by law enforcement officers early Monday morning as Thomas Ray Chamblee of Boaz.

Boaz, Albertville and Douglas police as well as deputies searched for Chamblee after a domestic violence call in Boaz. They found Chamblee’s wife there having suffered head lacerations, skull fractures, a broken arm and a broken hand, Sims said.

Chamblee fled the scene before officers arrived, traveling in a black Toyota Camry. Boaz police put out a be-on-the-lookout call for him and the car. Sims said Albertville police found the car a short time later, abandoned near Lazy Creek Circle.

Sims said officers learned from a neighbor that Chamblee was at a residence on Lazy Creek Circle, and officers from all the agencies responded.

“They did a good job, took their time to talk to him,” Sims said, trying to get him to come out.

“He came out of the residence holding a handgun,” the sheriff said. “As soon as he came out, he (pointed) the handgun at officers. And that’s when officers did what they had to do to protect themselves.”

Sims said Chamblee had prior charges with local law enforcement agencies, including theft charges and a prior domestic violence charge.

“Domestic violence is a serious, serious thing,” Sims said. “When an incident like this happens, whether it’s drug related or alcohol related, violence is not the answer.

“And unfortunately, it led to this (on) that night, to shots being fired, and a young man losing his life.”

Sims said he knows the situation is hard for those who lost a member of their family — a son, a nephew.

“But our officers went home safe,” the sheriff said.

No details were provided about which agencies’ officers fired shots, or how many shots were fired, because of the ongoing investigation.

Marshall County District Attorney Everette Johnson said the state Bureau of Investigations will examine evidence in the case, as is appropriate. He said all evidence has been turned over to the agency.

That evidence includes body camera recordings from officers on the scene.

“I’m sure there’s always a question with an officer-involved shooting,” Johnson said. But from all the facts made available to the district attorney’s office, he said, “It seems abundantly clear, at this time, as Sheriff Sims said, that the officers of law enforcement that were involved out at Nixon’s Chapel Sunday night or Monday morning, in regard to all their actions, (they) certainly appear to be reasonable, necessary and appropriate.”

“At this point in time, there certainly no reason to believe that any sort of charges against anyone will come out of this,” Johnson said.

Sims said he didn’t know if the domestic violence victim was still hospitalized or what her condition is.