BALTIMORE (WJZ) — Two officers were injured and a suspect was killed during a police-involved shooting in northeast Baltimore on Wednesday afternoon, officials said.

The officers, who were assigned to the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force, were working to serve a felony arrest warrant for attempted murder around noon at the Garden Village Apartment in the 5900 block of Radecke Avenue when the shooting happened, officials said.

WJZ has learned Michael Marullo was the name on the warrant the two officers were trying to serve. Police said Marullo was armed.

Marullo was facing nine charges from a domestic-related shooting in Lower Chichester Township outside of Philadelphia Tuesday night.

Governor Larry Hogan confirmed that Marullo was a former state corrections official.

"A former state corrections official who had left his job who had been under investigation, who had an outstanding warrant out for attempted murder," Hogan said.

WHAT WE KNOW:

Two detectives, one from Baltimore County and one from Baltimore City were injured in a shooting in Northeast Baltimore on Wednesday.

The two were working on the Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force.

They were trying to serve a warrant for Michael Marullo out of Pennsylvania.

A suspect is dead.

Both detectives are at Shock Trauma; one shot in the stomach, another in the leg.

One officer has been released from the hospital, while another is recovering from surgery.

While Baltimore Police Commissioner Michael Harrison said shots were fired, WJZ has learned there was no exchange of gunfire between police and the suspect. Police are still trying to determine how the officers were wounded.

Governor Hogan's office confirmed that the two injured officers are with Baltimore City and Baltimore County Police. One officer was shot in the leg and another officer was shot in the stomach.

Both officers were taken to Shock Trauma for treatment. The Baltimore City Police officer, who was shot in the leg, was released on Wednesday night, while the Baltimore County Police officer, who was shot in the stomach multiple times, is in serious but stable condition.

Related Coverage:

Doctor Thomas Scalea said the Baltimore County officer required emergency surgery and was likely saved by the tourniquet applied by fellow officers.

In a brief press conference, Hogan said that the officers were doing their jobs to combat violent crime in Baltimore when they were injured. He said it was "unfortunate" that the officers were injured during the incident. Two dozen state and federal officers were working the case.

The governor called the crime in Baltimore "very frustrating," noting there have been 39 murders in the city since the beginning of the year.

In the past week, six officers have been wounded in the line of duty in Maryland.

"The support from citizens and law enforcement agencies across the region has been overwhelming and very much appreciated," Baltimore County Police Chief Melissa Hyatt said. "We ask that you keep the police officers and their families in your prayers tonight."

The scene near Radecke and Cedonia avenues remained active for hours Wednesday, but eventually the roads near the shooting were reopened. Neighbors said the police presence following the shooting was heavy and almost immediate. From Chopper 13, you could see crime tape spread across the apartment complex's parking lot and several other areas were cornered off.

One man told WJZ's Paul Gessler his wife and 2-year-old toddler were inside the apartment at the time of the shooting and his wife described it as a bomb going off. She grabbed her toddler and went to find a safe location inside her apartment.

WJZ Investigator Mike Hellgren spoke to an eyewitness who heard some 15 shots and then saw an almost immediate police presence on the scene.

Another witness, Marcus, told Hellgren that he was walking down the street when he heard a bunch of gunshots -- at least 10.

Marcus said the police response was almost immediate, and while he didn't see anything, he said it was "very loud and very disturbing."

At this time, it is unknown if the police officers' body cameras were on.

Several city and county officials rushed to Shock Trauma to show their support for the officers and their families.

Gov. Hogan released a statement later Wednesday afternoon, saying in part his office is "providing unprecedented resources to combat this violent crime crisis from all directions, with everything we've got."

Baltimore Mayor Jack Young said prayers are with the officers and their families.

Statement on Police Involved Shooting pic.twitter.com/YD9acPio8Z — Mayor Bernard C. Jack Young (@mayorbcyoung) February 12, 2020

Mount Pleasant Church said it opened its space as a sanctuary for anyone impacted by the incident.