CORALVILLE - A Cedar Rapids man was killed by a single gunshot wound after an officer chased him for miles and collided with his motorcycle. The shot was fired after a brief scuffle with the officer, police said Thursday.

Coralville Police Chief Barry Bedford identified the victim as Kyle Wasson, 25.

The chase, which began in North Liberty, ended minutes before noon, about 200 feet from the Kate Wickham Elementary School playground on Coralville's north side. Some of the school's 538 students and a handful of teachers were outside on the playground during lunch recess, but none was injured.

School administrators immediately put the school on lockdown after shots were fired, Bedford said.

Few specifics of the investigation were immediately made public in the hours after the shooting.

"We're trying to sort out the details," Bedford said.

The officer chasing Wasson was identified as North Liberty Police Chief Jim Warkentin.

Bedford said the motor portion of the chase ended when Warkentin's police cruiser collided with Wasson's motorcycle on a bike path near the playground.

Bedford said the two men then began fighting and that Warkentin told investigators that Wasson was armed. Coralville officers arrived minutes after the shot was fired, police said.

Wasson was shot during the scuffle, but Bedford said it was unclear how many shots were fired and from which gun. Wasson was pronounced dead at the scene; Warkentin suffered minor injuries.

Investigators said two guns were recovered from the scene.

"We're not sure whose gun discharged. The officer is still talking to investigators about that," Bedford said.

Warkentin, police chief in North Liberty since 1999, has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

Bedford said it is also unknown what prompted the chase. North Liberty is just four miles north of Coralville, but urban sprawl and commercial growth in recent years have diminished the sense of separation between them.

Bedford said it's acceptable for police to pursue suspects into neighboring jurisdictions, and depending on circumstances, not uncommon for officers to pursue suspects on off-road venues such as bike paths.

"Each department has their own protocol … based on circumstances of the situation," he said.

School administrators said extra counselors would be on hand Friday to talk to students, who were told no details of the incident.

The school district contacted parents about the lockdown and asked them to pick up their children. School had previously been scheduled to close at 2 p.m., and many arriving shortly before then were unaware anything had taken place.

"I'm extremely shaken up," said Val Eichhorn of Coralville, who was picking up her two children, ages 8 and 10. Eichhorn was called by a neighbor who alerted her about some activity outside the school. "I've lived here four weeks. I thought we left all this behind (in Indianapolis)."

Many, however, said they weren't fazed.

"By the time I found out I was already here," said Joel Baker, of Coralville, whose 8- and 10-year-old children attend Wickham. "It wasn't on school grounds. I wasn't too shaken up."

North Liberty has three full-time officers, including Warkentin, and one part-time officer, said North Liberty City Administrator Brian James. Officer Diane Venenga will serve as interim chief while Warkentin is on leave, James said.

The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation was assisting in the investigation.