A Silverton police officer was justified in shooting a man on Valentine's Day, a Marion County grand jury ruled.

Marion County District Attorney officials said 21-year-old William Bluestone first shot himself in the chest; then a second shot was fired by Silverton Police officer Timothy Hein.

The Grand Jury unanimously ruled Hein's use of deadly force was justified.

Timeline of events

In a timeline laid out by Marion County deputy district attorney Matt Kemmy, events unfolded as follows:

Around 12:40 p.m on Feb. 14, officials with the Silverton Police Department responded to reports of a domestic violence disturbance at an apartment at 911 Reserve St.

Officers responded to call from a woman who said she had been assaulted by her husband, William Bluestone, at her apartment in Silverton earlier that morning. She said after the assault, William Bluestone forced her out of her apartment and would not let her take their 3-month-old child.

The woman gave police consent to enter her apartment and provided them with the key.

Officials determined William Bluestone also had a probation violation arrest warrant at the time.

When officers arrived at the apartment, they knocked on the door and loudly identified themselves. No one answered, but officers could hear noises inside the apartment, including a baby crying. Eventually, police used the key to enter.

Police removed the baby and a male juvenile from the apartment before they found William Bluestone hiding under a bed.

William Bluestone told the police he had a gun.

Past coverage:Oregon State Police investigating fatal officer-involved shooting

The officers then backed out of the room and took cover on either side of the doorway. Ofcs. Hein and Jonathan Lamoreaux attempted to negotiate with William Bluestone in an effort to get him to surrender peacefully.

During the negotiation, William Bluestone partially crawled out from under the bed with a gun in his hand. Police ordered Bluestone several times to drop the gun, but he refused and instead alternated between pointing the gun at his own head and chest. He also put the gun in his mouth for a time.

Officials said Bluestone demanded to see his wife and children but continued to refuse to put down his gun. Silverton Police called for assistance from other agencies, including Salem Police SWAT.

After more than one hour of attempting to negotiate, William Bluestone began yelling at Hein and Lamoreaux and then shot himself in the chest.

In response to William Bluestone’s actions, Hein — who was unsure who Bluestone was shooting at — fired one shot and struck Bluestone in the abdomen as he was falling backward.

After disarming Bluestone, police attempted to perform life-saving measures. SWAT medics and EMTs also attempted to treat Bluestone, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.

Officials said the incident was captured on police body cameras, although the camera's view is often obstructed due to tight quarters and the fact that police were using ballistic shields for protection.

Investigation

The officers involved were placed on paid administrative leave during the investigation.

An autopsy performed at the Oregon State Medical Examiner’s Office the following day determined that both bullets had passed through Bluestone’s heart and that either shot alone would have been fatal.

The Oregon State Police conducted the investigation and the Marion County District Attorney’s Office presented evidence to the grand jury.

The evidence included witness testimony, the medical examiner’s report, photographs, a Faro Scan and the police body camera recordings.

Virginia Barreda is the breaking news and public safety reporter for the Statesman Journal. She can be reached at 503-399-6657 or at vbarreda@statesmanjournal.com. Follow her on Twitter at @vbarreda2.