CAMILLUS, N.Y. -- A man who died by suicide after a confrontation with police in the Camillus Walmart parking lot was a 19-year-old from East Syracuse.

Jonathon C. D’Eredita Jr. was identified by a police source as the man who shot himself in the head Feb. 11 and later died at a Syracuse hospital. D’Eredita was fleeing from police in the parking lot off West Genesee Street that night.

Syracuse police have declined to identify the man.

Syracuse police said officers responded to the Walmart plaza around 8:30 p.m. Feb. 11 searching for a suspect. When officers approached him, the man drove away, police chased the vehicle briefly and the vehicle crashed in the parking lot, police said. When officers approached, they discovered the man had shot himself, police said.

The man was a suspect in an older theft investigation, Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick told Syracuse.com | The Post-Standard.

Jonathon C. D’Eredita Jr.

Sahara Ferreira, 21, of Liverpool, said she and D’Eredita both went to East Syracuse Minoa High School, but they didn’t really know each until last summer when they started dating. D’Eredita had moved in with her and her baby daughter, she said.

Ferreira said she was at work at a business in the same plaza as the Walmart store the night D’Eredita shot himself. D’Eredita had stopped at the nearby McDonald’s that night and brought her dinner at work, she said. He planned to wait for her in the parking lot until she was done, she said.

Syracuse police came looking for D’Eredita inside the business where Ferreira was working, she said. After police left, Ferreira said, she called D’Eredita to tell him police were looking for him but told him to stay calm and wait for her to get off of work.

Ferreira said they both knew he was wanted on grand larceny charges, but D’Eredita also knew he’d likely be in bigger trouble because he had a gun in the vehicle. Ferreira said he was carrying the gun because someone had shot at him two days before and he wanted protection.

Ferreira said D’Eredita said he was afraid he would be sent to prison for 10 years for having the gun, and that he was going to kill himself. Ferreira said she didn’t believe he would do that.

Ferreira said she and D’Eredita, who she calls JD, talked about getting married and wanted to open an online clothing business. She said she hopes to still start the business and call it JD after him.

Ferreira said D’Eredita was a kind guy who helped take care of her and her daughter. He loved to take them to the zoo, she said.

“He was such a sweet person,” she said.

Calling hours and a funeral were held Thursday for D’Eredita.

According to his obituary, D’Eredita enjoyed sports — particularly karate, baseball and hockey. He loved attending Syracuse Crunch games, where he had season tickets, and Yankees games, his obituary said.

He also liked spending time with his friends and family, including his little brother, who shared his love of sports, the obituary said.

Family members, through the funeral home handling the services, declined an interview for this article.

Where to get help

If you or a loved one are feeling suicidal and need help, call:

Contact at (315) 251-0600

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255

Health and Human Resources Referral Line at 211

Thanks for visiting Syracuse.com. Quality local journalism has never been more important, and your subscription matters. Not a subscriber yet? Please consider supporting our work.