HICKORY — A Morganton woman is facing additional charges after a man she was with died in police custody Monday.

Britton Nicole Metcalf, 32, of 5169 Rainhill Church Road in Morganton, was charged with trafficking in methamphetamine and possession of a firearm by a felon, according to a release from the Hickory Police Department.

The charges against Metcalf came after police responded to Red Roof Inn at 1184 Lenoir Rhyne Blvd. SE for a call about a person in a white vehicle with methamphetamine and a gun around 10:30 a.m. Monday, the release said.

When police arrived on scene, they found the car with an assault rifle clearly visible between the front seats, the release said. After canvassing hotel rooms, officers returned to the vehicle and found Metcalf and Matthew D. Saunders, 41, of Lincolnton, standing by the car, the release said.

As officers approached Metcalf and Saunders and gave commands, Saunders struck an officer and fled, the release said.

Officers gave chase and tried to take Saunders into custody, using a Taser in the process, the release said.

After a struggle to get Saunders into custody, he became unresponsive. Officers began CPR and called for EMS. Catawba County EMS responded to the scene and Saunders was pronounced dead, the release said.

HPD announced Tuesday that officers administered Naloxone, an overdose reversal drug, to Saunders because they thought he had taken an unknown amount of narcotics before the encounter, the release said.

An independent investigation by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation was immediately requested by HPD, the release said.

The officers involved in the incident, Master Police Officer Landen Whitener and Officer Alex Weaver, were placed on administrative duty pending the outcome of the investigation as part of standard procedure, the release said. One officer had minor injuries from the incident.

Saunders’ cause of death will be confirmed once toxicology and autopsy reports are received, the release said.

The charges against Metcalf came after police seized 92.92 grams of methamphetamine, 5.61 grams of marijuana, $4,945.87, two rifles and a handgun from her vehicle, the release said. Her bond was set at $52,200 secured with a court date set

Metcalf has felony convictions of possession of a Schedule II controlled substance, according to the North Carolina Department of Public Safety website.

Saunders was wanted by the U.S. Marshal Service as a federal probation absconder at the time of his death, the release said.