A serious crash Wednesday afternoon closed East New York Street near Fox Valley Mall in Aurora for a time. A driver involved in the crash died from injuries sustained in the wreck. (Aurora Police Department / HANDOUT)

Aurora police are continuing to investigate a shooting Wednesday that led to a car chase and eventually a multi-vehicle crash near Fox Valley Mall that killed a 24-year-old Aurora man, officials said.

Erik Esparza, who police believe was driving the suspect vehicle involved in the chase, was taken to Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove Wednesday afternoon and died that evening from injuries related to the crash that involved five vehicles. The DuPage County Coroner’s Office performed an autopsy on Esparza Thursday.

Advertisement

Four people in total were injured in relation to the crash.

Police were initially responding to reports of a shooting on the East Side of the city around 1:30 p.m. in the 600 block of South Broadway. The shooting is believed to have occurred seven miles away from where the suspect vehicle eventually crashed near the mall.

Advertisement

During the course of the incident Wednesday, a 35-year-old man came to an Aurora hospital with a gunshot wound. It is unknown what the man’s condition was Thursday. Investigators have determined that he was shot near the scene of the original call of shots fired in the 600 block of South Broadway Street. The Aurora Police Department believes the shooting was gang-related, officials said.

Adrien Betsinger, 23, of the 500 block of Woodlawn Avenue in Aurora, was a passenger inside the suspect vehicle that crashed near the mall and was charged in connection to Wednesday’s shooting with attempted murder, aggravated battery with a firearm, aggravated discharge and for possessing a firearm as a felon while on parole, police said.

While responding to the shooting on Wednesday, police spotted a vehicle, a gray Monte Carlo, matching the description of the suspect vehicle, police said. The vehicle also matched the description of a car wanted in connection to another shooting on Tuesday night in the 400 block of South State Street in Aurora, police said.

Officers attempted to stop the car but the vehicle drove away.

The vehicle began driving erratically and police had a lengthy pursuit totaling seven miles before the car crossed over into oncoming traffic on East New York Street and crashed into multiple vehicles near the mall, Aurora police spokesman Paris Lewbel said.

A patrol supervisor monitored the police radio during the pursuit and reviewed incoming information to determine whether the pursuit should continue or be terminated, police officials said in a statement. Supervisors believed the offenders in the vehicle posed a great risk to the community and officers were allowed to continue the pursuit because the suspect vehicle had potentially been involved in two shooting incidents in less than 24 hours, police said.

As the vehicle approached Route 59, which was busy, officers terminated the pursuit and slowed their patrol vehicles, police said in a statement. Shortly after, the suspect vehicle was involved in the crash. The car was traveling at high rates of speed at times and it split in half when it hit one of the vehicles near the mall, Lewbel said.

Esparza, Betsinger and one other person were inside the suspect vehicle. Esparza died from injuries from the crash. The other two in the vehicle sustained serious injuries in the wreck, police said.

Advertisement

A driver of another vehicle involved in the crash was taken to a local hospital with minor injuries, according to police. No one from the three other vehicles involved in the crash had injuries.

Two illegal guns were found inside the suspect vehicle, police said.

The Kane County Major Crimes Task Force has been requested to investigate the scene. East New York Street was closed for hours on Wednesday due to the crash.

mejones@chicagotribune.com