The executive director of Shreveport’s Downtown Development Authority (DDA) is asking the Bossier City Police Department to take a “hard look” at its vehicle pursuit policy after a police chase crossed the Red River and ended with a deadly crash in downtown Shreveport.

Earlier this week, Shreveport’s DDA executive director Liz Swaine wrote a letter addressed to Bossier City Police Chief Shane McWilliams, Shreveport Police Chief Ben Raymond, Bossier City Mayor Lorenz Walker and Shreveport Mayor Adrian Perkins.

She attached five photos of the crash scene, courtesy of Timmy Lane, to the letter. Two of the photos depict a pick-up truck that is leaning against a partial wall, with the bed of the truck above the wall and the front bumper smashed into a flower bed. The truck is believed to be the subject of the police chase. Two other photos show damage to a black, two-door car and one photo shows damage to a four-door SUV.

Swaine noted in her letter that the speed to create the kind of damage seen in the photographs would have been far over the posted limits. She also said the crash occurred approximately 166 yards from Spring and Texas Streets, which would have been occupied by other vehicles, pedestrians and club-goers at the time of the crash.

Click here to see the full letter from Liz Swaine.

The chase reportedly began in Bossier City and continued through Shreveport's Highland neighborhood before it ended at the intersection of Crockett and Spring streets in downtown.

Multiple people were injured in the three-vehicle crash, according to reports. Brittney Foster, 23, of Willow Lane in Shreveport, died from her injuries about nine minutes after midnight Saturday morning, said the Caddo Parish Coroner's Office in a news release.

Bossier City police are seeking charges against Robert Trayler for driving on roadway laned for traffic, tail lamps required, turn signals required, driving with a suspended driver’s license, aggravated flight from an officer with serious bodily injury and three counts of false imprisonment, Bossier City spokesperson Traci Landry told The Times.

So, what is Bossier City's policy on vehicle pursuits?

The Times obtained a copy of Bossier City’s six-page policy concerning vehicle pursuits; as well as copies of the policies for Bossier Parish Sheriff’s Office, Shreveport Police Department and the Caddo Parish Sheriff’s Office.

The Times also requested a copy of the Louisiana State Police’s policy but did not receive it before Friday evening.

Bossier City Police Department's (BCPD) policy was made effective in February 2015 and provides drivers of emergency vehicles, in emergency situations, certain privileges regarding exceeding maximum speed limits, proceeding past stop signs and more.

But it does not relieve the driver "of the responsibility to drive with due regard for the safety of all," and it does not protect the driver from consequences of their "reckless disregard from the safety of others."

The policy states the authority of a law enforcement officer to engage in pursuit stems from their duty to apprehend the persons.

"The freedom to pursue law violators must be available to police departments since it plays a vital role in deterrence and crime control responsibilities. Furthermore, it would not be in the best interest of the public safety to encourage the dangerous fleeing criminal to proceed without the imminent possibility of police intervention," reads BCPD's policy.

"...As a general rule, pursuit is not recommended or favored when the potential danger to the officer and general public outweighs the potential advantage of apprehending a fleeing vehicle by such means," it continues.

Take a look at the Bossier City Police Department's policy on vehicle pursuits below. The story continues underneath the embedded document.

Under the guidelines section, the document lists nine factors officers must consider when initiating a pursuit; officers must weigh the seriousness of the crime against the potential dangers to themselves or other members of the community, whether the suspect can be apprehended at a later time, traffic conditions, the area of the pursuit (residential, commercial or rural), weather conditions and more.

A supervisor is also involved in the pursuit process.

"Upon being made aware of a vehicular pursuit, the controlling supervisory unit shall make a decision to allow or terminate the pursuit based upon initial information from the pursing unit," the policy document read.

"The supervisor shall immediately notify the initiating vehicle that the pursuit is approved or denied."

In the "Vehicle Pursuit Tactics" section, the document states that when a pursuit leaves the city limits, the primary unit involved in the chase must notify that it is entering another jurisdiction and "turn the pursuit over to the agency's jurisdiction."

Should the agency from another jurisdiction terminate the pursuit, BCPD must do the same, according to the document. The only exception is if the suspect is wanted on a dangerous felony, such as attempted murder, murder, armed robbery or others.

See the vehicle pursuit policies for other local law enforcement agencies below:

Shreveport Police Department:

Caddo Parish Sheriff's Office:

Bossier Parish Sheriff's Office:

Emily Enfinger is the breaking news reporter for The Shreveport Times, covering crime and court. Follow her on Twitter at @EmilyEnfinger.

Have a news tip? Email Emily at eenfinger@gannett.com.