The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation has released the name of the person killed in an officer-involved shooting in Guilford-County on Sunday.Investigators said a deputy killed Boyce Melvin Thayer, 83, who was armed with a gun and "moved toward the deputies." He was pronounced dead at the scene. Click the video player above for more coverage of this story.The shooting took place between 5 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. near the intersection of Penny and Greensboro roads in Jamestown. Investigators said deputies were called to a disturbance on Penny Road. Investigators say when deputies knocked on the door, Thayer opened the door while holding a handgun. Investigators say the Thayer "moved toward the deputies" and a deputy then opened fire. Thayer was pronounced dead at the scene. "I hate any time a life is lost or any time injuries occur. We have a dangerous job out here. We don't want any of our deputies hurt and we definitely don't want any of our citizens hurt, either," said Guilford County Sheriff Danny Rogers.

The North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation has released the name of the person killed in an officer-involved shooting in Guilford-County on Sunday.

Investigators said a deputy killed Boyce Melvin Thayer, 83, who was armed with a gun and "moved toward the deputies." He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Advertisement

Click the video player above for more coverage of this story.

The shooting took place between 5 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. near the intersection of Penny and Greensboro roads in Jamestown.

Investigators said deputies were called to a disturbance on Penny Road. Investigators say when deputies knocked on the door, Thayer opened the door while holding a handgun. Investigators say the Thayer "moved toward the deputies" and a deputy then opened fire. Thayer was pronounced dead at the scene.

"I hate any time a life is lost or any time injuries occur. We have a dangerous job out here. We don't want any of our deputies hurt and we definitely don't want any of our citizens hurt, either," said Guilford County Sheriff Danny Rogers.