JACKSONVILLE, Fla. – An armed man was fatally shot by an officer Thursday after trespassing at an Arlington home and barricading himself inside, according to the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office.

Sheriff’s Office Chief of Investigations T.K. Waters said officers responded about 11:35 a.m. to a home on Caribbean Court East, just south of Fort Caroline Road, after the homeowner called police and reported that her ex-husband had entered the house and fired shots inside.

Waters said the homeowner was outside the house the entire time and was never in any danger.

According to Waters, the man inside the home threatened to take his own life and was acting “erratically.” SWAT officers arrived about 1 p.m. and took over the scene. Waters said an arrest warrant charging the man with armed trespassing was issued, along with a search warrant for the home.

At one point, Waters said, the man walked out of the home, “acting erratically” and waving a gun in his hand, and then went back inside.

A few moments later, according to Waters, the man came back outside, pointed his firearm toward an officer and that’s when the officer fired one shot, striking the man. Waters said the man, who was in the backyard at the time, died. No officers were injured.

A photo of the firearm that police say the suspect had in his possession. (Jacksonville Sheriff's Office)

Waters said it was Officer M.S. Clark’s first police-involved shooting. The 12-year veteran of the Sheriff’s Office was placed on administrative leave, which is JSO policy.

The Sheriff’s Office on Monday identified the man who was fatally shot as 39-year-old Dorgel Cisnero-Mesa.

According to Duval County court records, Cisnero-Mesa was divorced from his wife, who lived at the house on Caribbean Court East with their two children. She obtained a domestic violence injunction against him last year after the divorce was finalized, court records show. The ex-wife said in the petition Cisnero-Mesa was angry over the amount of child support he was ordered to pay. The petition said he showed up unannounced and uninvited at the home, her place of work and her mother’s house to harass them about the divorce. The ex-wife also said he made subtle threats about what he would do if he ever found out she had a boyfriend.

The State Attorney’s Office and JSO will be conducting investigations into the officer-involved shooting.

The man was the sixth person shot by Jacksonville police in four incidents this year. Four of the six were killed.