Note: The story was changed with updated information. According to the Sparks Police Department, another man involved in the case was not being charged due to information authorities received during their investigation. The woman was arrested at the scene of the robbery.

Investigators have identified the two suspects involved in a robbery that sparked a car chase and ended in a fatal head-on crash on Interstate 80.

Adrianna Marie Norman, 30, was booked into the Washoe County jail on a charge of open murder and robbery, both with a deadly weapon.

Ryan Williams, 34, also faces open murder, robbery with the use of a deadly weapon and owning or possessing a gun by a prohibited person charges, according to Sparks Police Officer Damon O'Connell.

O'Connell said another man involved in the case was not facing charges due to information authorities received during their investigation.

More on crime:Reno man gets 40 years for robbing woman of guns, killing a man in Sparks

The Sparks Police Department also recently released more information on the fatal wrong-way crash that killed a 30-year-old Sparks resident, Jacob Edwards.

Authorities said the crash stemmed from a robbery that was reported just hours earlier on Saturday.

At 6:26 a.m., officers responded to a report of a robbery at 1515 Oddie Boulevard. When they arrived, they learned that a man and a woman, both of whom were armed with handguns, threatened the victim and stole his wallet.

Another man was seen outside, and both men fled in a truck. Meanwhile, the woman was located on scene.

The officers reported seeing a truck leaving the scene, sparking a car chase through the area.

Related:Car rear-ends school bus carrying students; no injuries

The officers tried to unsuccessfully end the chase, but the suspects kept going, authorities said in a recent news release

The suspects then drove eastbound on Victorian Avenue and up the westbound off-ramp onto I-80, where they crashed head-on with another driver.

The responding officers tried to save the driver, Jacob Edwards, but he died at the scene, police said.

The suspects were treated at a local hospital for non-life-threatening injuries and were taken into custody.

Marcella Corona is a breaking news reporter who covers crime and justice in Northern Nevada. Support her work by subscribing to RGJ.com.