The wife of the man Milwaukee police fatally shot over the weekend said her husband was rampaging through the bar she owned, threatening to kill her, before officers arrived.

Kamesha Taylor said she was in the process of separating with her husband, 49-year-old Anthony Taylor, but he hadn't tried to hurt her before Saturday night.

Lounge 340, a bar that Kamesha Taylor co-owned with a friend, was celebrating its one-year anniversary that night. The women, neighbors said, were respected business owners who worked hard to keep their bar safe.

In an interview with WITI-TV on Monday, Taylor said if police hadn't fatally shot her husband, he might have shot her or one of her employees in his rage.

"It would’ve been either him or it would’ve been one of us," Taylor said.

Milwaukee police responded shortly after 11 p.m. to the 300 block of West Reservoir Avenue for a call of a subject with a gun. As officers were responding, the call was updated to a shots fired complaint.

Taylor said that by the time police responded, her husband had already beaten her, barreled through the bar — injuring others — when she managed to escape, and waved his gun around, firing shots.

"As they confronted that individual, officers discharged their firearms at the suspect, fatally wounding him," Assistant Police Chief Michael Brunson said at a news conference.

The party had been going smoothly earlier, Taylor said. Outside on Reservoir Avenue, her husband was manning his food truck, TK’s Smok’n Smokehouse, which was celebrating its grand opening.

All of a sudden, an employee came inside saying Anthony had pointed a gun at them and punched them. Taylor went outside to talk to her husband, and "from there, he tackled me down to the ground," she said.

A relative freed Kamesha, and she ran inside and hid in the basement. Anthony Taylor followed, trying to find his wife. A friend ended up smuggling Kamesha away in a car.

Moments after speeding off, she got a call from her co-owner: Anthony Taylor was firing shots outside. Kamesha Taylor believes her husband also shot at her mother's car as her mother tried to flee.

Anthony Taylor went back inside the bar, his wife recounted, and threw chairs and choked one of her employees. He was shouting that he was going to find and kill Kamesha.

"It was impossible for someone to contain him," she said.

Kamesha Taylor said she believes police officers told her husband to drop his gun three times before they shot him.

The couple were married 10 years and share a son. They'd agreed to separate after years of struggling in their marriage. Anthony had trouble accepting this, Kamesha Taylor said.

"He was an awesome person. He was a great dad," she said. "I think it was just issues that he wasn’t willing to deal and cope with — things like anger management."

She said she hoped her story would inspire other women facing domestic violence to seek help.

Sen. Lena Taylor was in bar shortly before shooting

On a campaign swing around Milwaukee Saturday, mayoral candidate state Sen. Lena Taylor had stopped by Lounge 340 to congratulate the owners on their anniversary. She left the bar less than 30 minutes before the shooting happened, she told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

The senator said the owners had hired four security guards for the event, and that everyone was patted down before they could enter the building — "they did everything right," she said.

Taylor said she knows the owners and has attended events there before.

She hoped the shooting prompted Milwaukee residents to band together to heal from domestic violence and generational trauma.

"Men need a place and a way to know it's OK to not be OK," she said.

"We have got to prioritize prevention and healing," she added, "and that can never start unless we are honest about the root causes behind the things that are happening."

Neighbor says bar was good presence on the block

Mary Bolich and her husband nearly bought dinner from Anthony Taylor's food truck earlier in the night. Intrigued by the bright-yellow truck across the street from their condominium, they'd gone over to pick up menus.

But their meal plan changed at the last moment — and the party they'd observed from their window was so subdued, Bolich didn't think anything of it.

That changed around 11 p.m., when Bolich heard multiple gunshots ring out, and squad cars and ambulances swarmed their block.

It surprised Bolich, who knows the bar's security guards by name and regularly sees them waving metal detector wands over each patron. The owners kept strict rules for the bar: no one under 30; no baggy pants, hoodies, hats or guns.

"I'm really respectful of all the efforts they've made to not disturb the neighborhood," she said. "I feel like they keep it safe."

Bolich said the owners give back to the community, hosting a Thanksgiving dinner and providing food and gifts to families in need at Christmastime.

Family grateful for police response

Kamesha Taylor's brother Harold Johnson said his family is trying to understand such an unexpected loss. But they're grateful officers stopped Anthony Thomas.

"We are grateful for our Milwaukee Police Department, because if they didn't show up at the exact time that they did ... it would have been a whole different story."

Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm told the Journal Sentinel his office is reviewing the case.

"It's going to take some time to examine all of the citizen witness statements," he said. "There's video evidence that's going to have to be gone through, and all of that."

A 27-year-old officer and a 23-year-old officer, both with two years on the department, were involved in the shooting, Brunson said. Per department policy, they have been placed on administrative duty.

The Milwaukee Area Investigative Team is handling the investigation with the Waukesha Police Department serving as the lead agency.

RELATED:After high-profile homicides, Milwaukee leaders pledge renewed focus on domestic violence

Resources

The Sojourner Family Peace Center in Milwaukee operates a 24-hour confidential hotline at (414) 933-2722.

The Milwaukee Women's Center also offers a hotline at (414) 671-6140.

The Asha Project, which serves African-American women in Milwaukee, provides a crisis line from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at (414) 252-0075.

The National Domestic Violence Hotline can be reached at (800) 799-7233. For a list of domestic violence resources in the Milwaukee area, click here.

Ashley Luthern of the Journal Sentinel staff contributed to this report.

Contact Sophie Carson at (414) 223-5512 or scarson@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter at @SCarson_News.