Signal Staff Writer Caleb Lunetta contributed to this report.

Sheriff’s Department homicide detectives are investigating a fatal deputy-involved shooting that took place Sunday at the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station.

Investigators with the Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner identified Raymundo Aaron Ceja, 32, of Newhall, as the suspect killed during the shooting Monday, according to coroner’s spokeswoman Sarah Ardalani.

Video by Gilbert Bernal/The Signal

The shooting occurred in the parking lot of the Sheriff’s Station, and Ceja was transported to the hospital, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the Sheriff’s Information Bureau. Ceja was later pronounced dead at the hospital at 3:05 p.m.

During a news conference near the crime scene, Lt. Derrick Alfred of the Sheriff’s Department’s Homicide Unit said Ceja approached the deputies in a secured parking lot.

A Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station deputy communicates with colleagues during the containment that was set in place surrounding the civic center on Magic Mountain Parkway after a deputy-involved shooting on Sunday, March 1, 2020. Gilbert Bernal/The Signal

“Suddenly, a man appeared who was walking on foot, he had a handgun in his hand,” said Alfred. “The deputies stopped their cars, they got out of their cars, they attempted to detain the man at gunpoint — ordered him numerous times to drop the firearm.”

Ceja apparently refused and a deputy-involved shooting occurred at 2:29 p.m.

Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station officials are holding press conference after deputy-involved shooting at the station earlier this afternoon.Read more here: https://signalscv.com/2020/03/sheriffs-respond-to-deputy-involved-shooting-near-station/ Posted by Santa Clarita Valley Signal on Sunday, March 1, 2020

“One deputy fired two rounds striking the suspect who was transported to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead,” said Alfred.

Homicide detectives were called to the scene shortly after the initial reports, Navarro-Suarez said. Homicide officials investigate any officer-involved shooting as a matter of protocol.

The weapon used by Ceja was reportedly a semi-automatic handgun.

A deputy cordons off the entrance to the parking lot of the civic center near the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station on Magic Mountain Parkway after a deputy-involved shooting on Sunday, March 1, 2020. Gilbert Bernal/The Signal

Los Angeles County Fire Department’s Supervisor Cheryl Sims confirmed that units are staging for sheriff’s deputies for a reported deputy-involved shooting on Magic Mountain Parkway around 2:30 p.m.

“That area is going to be cordoned off,” said Sims. “The deputy is not injured.” Sims said there was one patient at the back of the Sheriff’s Station.

In a tweet sent out at 3:28 p.m. from the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station Twitter account, officials said there was no danger to the public at this time and there were no outstanding suspects.

Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station deputies respond to a deputy-involved shooting that occurred in the station’s employee parking lot on Sunday, March 1, 2020. Gilbert Bernal/The Signal

Olan Rodriguez was at the library when he said the lockdown began. He said he didn’t hear any gunshot, but was made aware of the activity when he came outside.

“I just came out to this,” said Rodriguez, pointing to all the law enforcement activity occurring in the parking lot. He said his car was in the parking lot and he was told he could leave but not take his car.

First responders stand by while they await updates regarding the deputy-involved shooting at the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station on Sunday, March 1, 2020. Gilbert Bernal/The Signal

One witness, who declined to give his name on the scene, said that he was told he would need to leave his vehicle in the parking lot because “they don’t know whose car it was for the guy who was shot over there.”

A group of people were congregating in front of the Sheriff’s Station, a couple saying they were in the library and now stuck because their cars were behind police tape at the scene of the shooting. Some were already waiting for Ubers or other means to get home.

Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station deputies conducting traffic control near the Santa Clarita Courthouse as the station and surrounding civic center are on lockdown following a deputy-involved shooting. Emily Alvarenga/The Signal

“The area will remain closed as (an) investigation is underway,” according to a tweet from the station.

Traffic was being turned around at Magic Mountain Parkway and Citrus Street as officials work to investigate the scene. Though Magic Mountain Parkway was reopened around 5:30 p.m., Citrus Street remained closed until around 8 p.m.