EDITOR’S NOTE: An earlier version of this story stated that Carmisha Mone Slayton died from her injuries at a Berrien County Hospital. MLive has been made aware that she was airlifted to Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo and succumbed to her injuries there.

BERRIEN COUNTY, MI — A 22-year-old Detroit woman who was airlifted from the scene of a crash Feb. 15 in Van Buren County has died from her injuries.

Carmisha Mone Slayton was a passenger in a vehicle being driven by 24-year-old Jujuan Marquise Gabriel, also of Detroit, when Gabriel lost control of the vehicle and the car slammed into a utility pole.

Gabriel, who had a felony warrant out for his arrest, had been being chased by police when, according to authorities, his vehicle, being driven at excessive speeds, skidded on the ice in the 6700 block of County Road 687 and left the road.

Slayton, who was in critical condition after the accident, was airlifted by West Michigan Air Care to Bronson Methodist Hospital in Kalamazoo. She succumbed to her injuries there on Friday, Feb. 21, Baroda-Lake Township Police Officer John Hopkins told MLive.

Hopkins did not disclose what Slayton’s injuries were that led to her death.

Gabriel is being charged with second degree murder, fleeing and eluding resulting in death, driving with a suspended license resulting death, reckless driving resulting in death and one count of bribery, according to Berrien County court records.

Jajuan Marquise Gabriel (Photo provided by the Michigan Department of Corrections).

Gabriel, who had been wanted on a felony warrant out of Wayne County for being in possession of illegal financial transaction devices, suffered three broken ribs in the accident, Hopkins said.

Gabriel was treated and released from Lakeland St. Joseph Hospital and is currently being lodged at the Berrien County Jail on the aforementioned charges.

The chase involving Gabriel and Slayton began on I-94 in Baroda-Lake Township, just north of Bridgman, Hopkins said.

Baroda-Lake officers unsuccessfully attempted to stop a speeding Gabriel, who was headed east in a 2019 Chrysler 300, according to a news release issued by the Van Buren County Sheriff’s Office on Feb. 16.

The officers eventually lost sight of the vehicle, but a Berrien County sheriff’s deputy spotted Gabriel’s vehicle shortly thereafter, the release stated.

Van Buren County sheriff’s deputies were alerted to the pursuit at around 8:45 a.m. that morning after receiving a radio transmission from the Berrien County Sheriff’s Office that Gabriel’s Chrysler was headed toward Van Buren County, the release stated.

Gabriel eventually entered into Van Buren County on County Road 362 and then turned north on County Road 687 in Hartford Township, before losing control of his car, the release stated.

Gabriel’s case is being handled in Berrien County as that is where the chase began, Hopkins said.

Also on MLive:

Woman in critical condition after accident, airlifted from scene

Daughter ‘gone but not forgotten’ one year after fatal Kalamazoo train crash

Mother, boyfriend who abused, murdered 4-year-old lose appeals