An innocent Sedalia man was killed in a crash that occurred after a high-speed pursuit of a stolen vehicle driven by a Clinton man ended in Pettis County Sunday night.

According to the Missouri State Highway Patrol, a 1989 Chevy Silverado driven by 26-year-old Westley E. Reid of Clinton was northbound on US 65 when he failed stop stop for a red light at 32nd and Limit at 8:26 p.m. and struck a westbound 1993 Dodge Dakota driven by 27-year-old Zachary A. Hancock Bottom of Sedalia. The Dakota then struck a southbound 2018 Chevy Tahoe driven by 45-year-old Michael E. Simons of Sedalia. At that point, Bottom was ejected from his vehicle. He was later pronounced deceased by Dr. Wilson at 10:05 p.m. at Bothwell Regional Health Center.

Bottom and Reid were not wearing a seat belt at the time of the crash, according to the report.

Reid was transported to University Hospital in Columbia with moderate injuries.

The Silverado and Dakota were totaled, while the Tahoe had moderate damage. All three vehicles were towed by Don's Truck Towing.

The Patrol was assisted by Sedalia Police, Pettis County deputies, and the Henry County Sheriff's Department.

The Patrol noted that they were asked to assist Henry County in the pursuit of a stolen vehicle spotted in Windsor. The MSHP reportedly clocked Reid doing 106 mph on Highway 65 as he entered Pettis County. Sedalia Police were notified of the situation at 8:24, and spike strips were deployed by Sedalia Police officer who was on patrol about three-fourths of a mile before the crash occurred. The suspect vehicle avoided the stop sticks.

The suspect vehicle struck the westbound Dakota at 32nd and Limit. The Dakota then struck a southbound Pettis County deputy SUV sitting at the red light. Bottom was ejected from his vehicle upon impact.

Reid was taken into custody at 8:59 p.m. and charged with felony DWI. He was later charged with felony 2nd degree murder, felony 1st degree tampering with w motor vehicle, and felony resisting arrest.

Bottom worked as a pizza delivery man for Domino's, 32nd and LImit.

Sedalia Police assisted with scene security and traffic. They were never in pursuit of the suspect vehicle, it was noted in a press release on Monday morning. The MSHP was in charge of the investigation. One dozen Troopers were on scene, in addition to all the other law enforcement and rescue personnel.

Pettis County Jail Pettis County Jail loading...

Randy Kirby Randy Kirby loading...

Randy Kirby Randy Kirby loading...

Randy Kirby Randy Kirby loading...