Nashville police said a suspected carjacker was killed and another person was injured in a crash Wednesday night in south Nashville near the Rutherford County line.

The carjacked Dodge Charger, police said, appears to have crossed into oncoming traffic on Murfreesboro Pike during an authorized pursuit by an Metro Nashville Police Department officer.

Police said the Charger struck a Honda sedan, overturned and caught fire. An officer pulled one Charger occupant out before ammunition in the Charger began to explode in the fire.

Dariel Jackson, 23, has been identified as the driver of the Charger who was pulled out of the vehicle.

Police said he was discharged from the hospital and will be charged with multiple offenses including aggravated robbery and vehicular homicide.

The homicide charge is related to the death of a passenger in the Charger. Two other vehicles, a Honda Civic and a Volkswagen Jetta, contained three occupants, and Jackson has been charged with a count aggravated assault for each.

The second carjacking suspect, who died in the crash, has been tentatively identified as a 25-year-old Memphis man.

How the carjacking, crash unfolded

The masked carjackers were armed with a long gun and pistol when they carjacked the owner of the Charger in the driveway of his Linbar Drive home Wednesday night, police said.

He complied with the demands to get out of his car, police said.

Police said the carjackers drove up to the Charger's owner in a brown pickup truck. It was not clear whether there was another person in the truck at the time of the assault.

An officer spotted the stolen vehicle on Haywood Lane and followed it without activating emergency equipment, MNPD reported. Investigators believe the driver spotted the officer in the Hickory Hollow area at an apartment complex on Crossings Boulevard.

It was then that police say Jackson accelerated in the direction of Murfreesboro Pike.

"Two South Precinct officers engaged in an authorized pursuit of the Charger, believing that the two armed masked men who took the vehicle posed a significant risk to Nashville’s citizens," MNPD said in a release.

One occupant in the Honda has serious but non-life threatening injuries, the other was taken to a hospital to be checked. The driver of the Jetta was uninjured.

Police believe the pair of carjackers were likely involved in another theft early Wednesday morning, that of another Dodge Charger from a Clarksville woman around 2 a.m. outside a Wendy's on West End Avenue in Nashville.

Reports from that incident reported two masked gunmen. The vehicle was recovered in an apartment complex on Hickory Club Drive in Antioch at 4:45 a.m. Wednesday.

Jackson remained in custody Thursday afternoon in lieu of $80,000 bond.

The investigation into that case is also continuing.

No additional information was immediately available.

Reach Natalie Neysa Alund at nalund@tennessean.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.