TOM LANGHORNE Staff Writer

GREENVILLE -- Authorities said a 24-year-old Piedmont woman was shotgunned to death in her supermarket workplace Wednesday after being held hostage for almost two hours, and a man described as her jilted ex-boyfriend is charged with the crime.

Charles Christopher Williams, 20, of 506 Waxford Way, Simpsonville, is charged with murder in connection with the death of Maranda Leigh "Mandy" Williams at the Bi-Lo supermarket at East North Street and Pelham Road.

Mandy Williams, an employee in the supermarket's deli section, leaves behind a 2½-year-old daughter by another man.

Greenville County authorities said a Bi-Lo manager called 911 at 10:02 a.m. to report that a man had entered the supermarket with a shotgun. Sheriff's deputies and Greenville city police arrived on the scene minutes later, surrounding the supermarket with guns drawn and assisting in the evacuation of employees and customers.

Stores facing Bi-Lo also were evacuated as a precaution, and traffic was blocked between North Pleasantburg and Selwyn Drive.

Sgt. James McCann, a spokesman for the Greenville County Sheriff's Office, said the man in the store, who wore fatigues and carried a 12-gauge shotgun, did not accost or take hostage any of the store's customers or other employees.

McCann said Mandy Williams apparently was held against her will in

a back room in the deli section, where she maintained periodic contact with authorities by cellular telephone.

"She was saying that she was being held at gunpoint, and that he says if anyone tried to come close to them, he would shoot her," McCann said.

McCann said Mandy Williams was shot at about 11:45 a.m., after which members of the SWAT team swarmed into the store and took Charles Williams into custody.

Charles Williams, who also faces charges of kidnapping and possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime, is being held in the Greenville County jail without bond.

Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans said Mandy Williams died of multiple gunshot wounds. Evans said an autopsy would be performed this morning.

"She probably died pretty instantly after receiving those injuries," he said.

Evans said Bi-Lo employees had indicated that Mandy Williams and Charles Williams, who were not married, had broken up recently, "and this incident was the result of that breakup."

A troubling past

This was not the first time Charles Williams had acted violently toward Mandy Williams, according to authorities. Charles Williams was charged with assault and battery with intent to kill in July after Mandy Williams told investigators he had severely beaten her in the Bi-Lo parking lot.

A sheriff's office incident report on the July 16 assault states that Mandy Williams said Charles Williams, whom she described as her ex-boyfriend, had beaten her unconscious.

Mandy Williams told the officers she had stopped seeing Charles Williams almost two months earlier, but he had persisted in following her and calling her home.

Mandy Williams reported that during the parking lot attack Charles Williams repeatedly punched her in the face. She told investigators she heard him say "I'm going to kill you" before she lost consciousness.

A witness reported he saw Charles Williams hit Mandy Williams in the face with his fists five times, look around, and hit her twice more.

The incident report stated that a Greenville Memorial Hospital nurse reported Mandy Williams had suffered broken bones in her face as well as visible cuts and severe bruising.

The day after the incident, Charles Williams was jailed on a $45,000 surety bond. He bonded out of jail the same day.

Williams' arrest record indicates he also faces charges of grand larceny and third-degree larceny in Greenville County. In that Oct. 23 incident, Williams is accused of breaking into the offices of National Paint Ball Co. in Mauldin and of stealing stolen paintball guns valued at more than $1,000.

Prosecutors report that Williams applied for pre-trial intervention on the two charges and was accepted into the program, but was kicked out of the program on Aug. 21.

McCann said investigators are interested in learning about any unreported incidents between Mandy Williams and Charles Williams that may have occurred after July 16. He said the sheriff's office received no calls for assistance from either of them after the July incident.

'A good ol' girl'

Patricia Williams, Mandy Williams' stepmother, said Mandy met Charles Williams four to five months ago when both were working at Bi-Lo on Woodruff Road. A Bi-Lo spokesperson said the supermarket chain had employed Mandy Williams since November.

"I guess she got attached to him pretty quickly," Mrs. Williams said. "She went with him a month or two, then they went to the beach together one weekend and he punched a hole in a wall. She decided she didn't need to have that kind of thing around her daughter."

Mandy Williams repeatedly told Charles Williams she didn't want to be more than his friend, Mrs. Williams said, but he would not accept that.

"Mandy was good to everybody, and she was so honest it wasn't even funny,"

Mrs. Williams said. "He daughter was her life. She was just a good ol' girl."

Bi-Lo corporate spokeswoman Joyce Smart issued a written statement Wednesday afternoon.

"We offer our sympathy to the family and friends of Maranda Williams," the statement said. "Her loss is felt by so many Bi-Lo associates.

"Our store manager and several associates evacuated the store once they were aware of the danger. Their quick action kept our customers and other associates out of harm's way, and we're very grateful to them."

Taylors resident Lisa Kennedy, who said she was in the store when trouble began, agreed that Bi-Lo employees acted responsibly.

"There were about 15 of us customers in the store at the time," Kennedy said. "An employee grabbed my arm and told me there was an emergency and everyone had to get out. They didn't go over the intercom or anything; they handled it exactly right."

Bi-Lo employees reported Wednesday afternoon that the supermarket chain had instructed them not to speak about Williams' death or the events that led to it.

The store on East North Street was closed for the remainder of the day.

"(Bi-Lo is) working with our associates by offering counseling," Smart's statement said.

Tom Langhorne can be reached at 562-7221 or tom.langhorne@shj.com.