OVIEDO, Fla. — The suspect wanted in connection with shooting two people, killing one of them, inside a home late Sunday night died Monday from a self-inflicted gunshot wound after he barricaded himself inside his apartment in Oviedo, according to police.

Maitland police responded just before 11 p.m. Sunday to a report of an armed burglary in the 1900 block of Bobtail Drive. When they responded, they found two people inside their home.

One of the victims was pronounced dead at the scene, police said, and the other victim was transported to the hospital where they are listed in critical, but stable, condition. Their names have not been released.

Read: 2 residents shot inside Maitland home, police say

Police identified a suspect and issued a search warrant that was assisted by the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office.

The Sheriff Office’s SWAT team responded to Oviedo Grove apartments behind McDonald’s on Katie Jean Way to serve the warrant. When they arrived the suspect barricaded himself inside his apartment.

SWAT members found the suspect dead inside the apartment from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to police. His name has not been released.

Read: Driver ticketed in crash that killed 4 people near Disney, arrested on separate immigration charges, troopers say

Some residents were evacuated. However, Maitland police said residents were not in danger from the suspect.

Cristine Hinkley is a mother of four girls who lives right next door to the apartment.

“I have bullet holes going through my walls and doors and jams,” Hinkley said. “We just kept hearing noises and gunshots and it was just scary.”

Maitland police are still investigating the homicide, and the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office is conducting its own investigation into the barricaded suspect.

But neighbors said they’re still on edge.

“That’s scary stuff; I don’t want that around my family, my kids, my friends, and that’s not OK,” Hinkley said.

UPDATE: The barricaded subject is no longer a threat. The situation has been contained. https://t.co/lGP1pwNtCk — Seminole County S.O. (@SeminoleSO) March 9, 2020

© 2020 Cox Media Group