Sheriff’s deputies directed “multiple commands” toward a homicide suspect walking down a northern Minnesota road before one of them shot and killed the man, according to details newly disclosed Tuesday afternoon.

Keith P. Haux, 57, was killed soon after he fatally shot neighbor Maynard L. Anderson, 72, early Sunday afternoon in the victim’s home along Pine Mountain Lake in Backus, the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) said.

Anderson’s wife, 70-year-old Carol, hid in a closet during the encounter and called 911, son Daniel Anderson told the Star Tribune.

Authorities responded to Carol Anderson’s 911 call shortly after 1:30 p.m. She reported that Haux had entered her house on Point Road with a gun and sh soon heard shots fired, the BCA said.

Cass County sheriff’s deputies along with a Pine River officer spotted Haux walking down the road in the area with a gun.

“Multiple commands were given to the suspect, and one Cass County deputy fired several shots,” said the BCA statement. A gun was recovered at the scene.

A statement earlier this week from Sheriff Tom Burch said that Haux “approached deputies with a firearm” before the deputy shot him.

The BCA collected squad video and body cameras from the deputies, which captured the incident.

The name of the deputy involved will be released following initial interviews, the BCA said. Two deputies remain on standard paid administrative leave as the investigation continues. Authorities have not disclosed a motive for the shooting.

Neighbor Bill Bohnen said he saw Haux two days earlier on his deck and pointing a rifle at the Andersons’ home.

“Then he pulled it down and went back in,” Bohnen said.

Bohnen said he told Maynard Anderson about what he saw, and “Maynard said Keith’s been kind of goofy lately” while coping with no longer having a driver’s license and being out of work.

Haux would borrow tools from the Andersons, Bohnen continued, and Carol “gave him a ride because he didn’t have a license. Carol was worried all the while. He was getting stranger all along.”