LOUISVILLE, Ky. — In the early morning hours of March 13, a Louisville Metro Police search of a home went terribly wrong — ending with an officer shot and Breonna Taylor, a 26-year-old ER tech, was dead in her hallway, killed by police.

Much of what is known about the events that led to Taylor's death has come from attorneys for her family, court records and leaked documents, as Louisville Metro Police have declined to comment on specifics of the case or release documents.

Based on records obtained by The Courier Journal, here's what we know about the events that led to Taylor's death:

Ex-boyfriend connection to alleged drug sales

Dec. 30: Police execute three search warrants in the Russell neighborhood, seizing several guns and narcotics. Among the six people subsequently arrested is Jamarcus Glover, Taylor's ex-boyfriend.

Jan. 2: Using a surveillance camera, police see a white Chevrolet Impala pull up in front of 2424 Elliott Ave. — one of the houses hit with a search warrant a few days earlier. Glover gets out of the passenger side of the car, which is registered to Taylor.

Jan. 16: Glover is seen driving to Taylor's Springfield Drive apartment and walking inside. After a brief stay, police see Glover leave with "a suspected USPS package" and then drives to a house on West Muhammad Ali Boulevard, which was also hit with a search warrant on Dec. 30.

Feb. 14: After an officer tows his car from West Muhammad Ali Boulevard, Glover attempts to file a complaint against the officer. The phone number he gave on the complaint was registered to Taylor.

March 12: Warrants are set in motion

Midday: Detective Joshua Jaynes, an officer in the Place-Based Investigations unit of the Criminal Interdiction Division, requests five no-knock search warrants from Circuit Judge Mary Shaw for an ongoing narcotics investigation.

The Breonna Taylor case: Everything you need to know and the latest news

More:Louisville sets curfew, calls National Guard with Breonna Taylor decision ahead

12:25 p.m.: Shaw signs off on the affidavits for the first two warrants for houses at 2424 and 2425 Elliott Ave. Six minutes later, Shaw signs off on 2426 Elliott Ave., and then four minutes after that, she approves 2605 W. Muhammad Ali Blvd. All four homes are in the Russell Neighborhood.

12:37 p.m.: Shaw signs off on the search for Taylor's apartment, 10 miles away in South Louisville.

In the affidavit for the warrant, Jaynes wrote that:

Glover's car had made "frequent" trips to Taylor's Springfield Drive apartment.

Glover walked directly into Taylor's apartment on Jan. 16.

A U.S. postal inspector verified Glover received packages at Taylor's apartment.

Taylor's car had been seen in front of Elliott Avenue on "different occasions."

Approximately 9 p.m.: Taylor and her boyfriend, Kenneth Walker, get home from dinner at Texas Roadhouse and giving a friend's kids rides across town. It was Taylor's first night off after a few consecutive days with 12-hour shifts as an ER technician. They climb in bed and put on a movie.

Approximately 10 p.m.: Police officers are briefed on the entry plan for Taylor's apartment.

Just before midnight: About 45 minutes before serving the warrant, Mattingly said he drove by Taylor's apartment, while another officer, detective Mike Campbell, "had the eye on the house." The only thing Campbell saw while watching Taylor's apartment, Mattingly said, was the light on the TV in the bedroom. Police thought Taylor would be home alone, he said.

Inside the apartment, Taylor had fallen asleep as the movie "Freedom Writers" played, and Walker said he was starting to doze off.

March 13: A shot fired met with dozens of police bullets

12:40 a.m.: Officers were in place outside of Taylor's apartment and began to knock on the door. After a few knocks, Mattingly said, they began to identify themselves as police.

The knocking startles Taylor and Walker out of bed, and they began yelling out, asking who is there, Walker said. They don't hear a response.

After about a minute and hearing no response from inside, police use a battering ram to knock in the front door.

Inside, Walker had grabbed his gun as both he and Taylor pulled on clothes and went to answer the door. They left the bedroom and hadn't made it down the hallway before the door "comes off its hinges," he said.

Related:911 call from Breonna Taylor shooting: 'Somebody kicked in the door and shot my girlfriend'

12:42 a.m.: Neighbors in the St. Anthony Garden Apartments call 911 to report gunshots.

Walker says he fires one shot as a warning, aimed at the ground, still unable to see and unclear who is at the door. Mattingly and detectives Myles Cosgrove and Brett Hankison return fire.

12:43 a.m.: Officers on scene call dispatch to report an officer had been shot. Officials say this was the shot Walker fired. Taylor is struck in the return fire by police.

12:47 a.m.: Walker calls 911 and says, "Somebody kicked in the door and shot my girlfriend."

12:48 a.m.: Taylor's official time of death.

Ten miles away on Elliott Avenue, police have Glover, her ex-boyfriend — the main target of the narcotics investigation — and three of his associates in custody. Officers seize drugs, guns and cash from the Elliott Avenue properties.

The fifth warrant on West Muhammad Ali Boulevard is not executed.

1 a.m.: Police arrest Walker after commanding him to walk backward as he leaves the apartment.

1:10 a.m.: Police tell dispatch there's a woman inside the apartment.

1:46 a.m.: EMS leave Taylor's apartment complex.

3:35 a.m.: Police return with a second search warrant for Taylor's apartment.

Inside, they find shell casings and bullets. Police recover no drugs or cash, though they do find mail for Glover.

3:53 a.m.: Sgt. Amanda Seelye and Sgt. Chad Tinnell of the Public Integrity Unit interview Walker, who insists he didn't know it was police on the other side of the door.

"The only reason I even had the gun out (was) because we didn't know who it was. If we knew who it was, that would have never happened," Walker says.

10:55 a.m.: The Jefferson County Coroner's Office arrives at the apartment.

3:30 p.m.: At a news briefing, Lt. Ted Eidem says officers found an "unresponsive woman who was later pronounced dead" inside the apartment, and that officers were "still working through what her involvement was on the narcotics investigation." (Police didn't identify Taylor by name; a coroner's news release later named her as the deceased woman.)

Eidem announces Walker is being charged with the attempted murder of a police officer.

Police Chief Steve Conrad says no body-camera footage exists of the shooting.

Mattingly, Hankison and Cosgrove are placed on administrative reassignment, which is standard in Louisville police shootings.

Reach Tessa Duvall at tduvall@courier-journal.com and 502-582-4059. Twitter: @TessaDuvall. Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/subscribe.