A man accused of running over a woman was shot and killed by police officers during a confrontation early Saturday, according to Cocoa Police Department reports.

Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigators are looking into the shooting that left an unidentified 48-year-old man dead.

FDLE conducts investigations on all officer-involved shootings per department protocol. The officer has been placed on paid leave during the investigation.

Police were called around 1 a.m. Saturday after reports that a woman had been run over by a red, four-door Jeep in the 2700 block of U.S. 1.

More:Brevard County declares state of emergency amid COVID-19

More:Coronavirus Florida: 3rd death involving Florida resident reported as number of cases jumps to 70

Witnesses told investigators that a man had been driving recklessly on U.S. 1 from Titusville into Cocoa before he hit a curb, causing the woman riding with him to be ejected from the vehicle, police said.

When officers arrived, they found the 39-year-old woman had been run over and left in the road. She was taken to a local hospital where she is in stable condition.

Police saw the Jeep flee the scene of the crash and began pursuing the suspect west on Michigan Avenue, through the Eastern Florida State College parking lot and south on Clearlake Road.

The chase came to an end on Pluckebaum Road near the Brevard County Sheriff’s Office farm, where officers attempted a "high-risk traffic stop."

According to police, the suspect then backed into one of the patrol cars before driving another one through a fence, down an embankment and into a nearby pond.

The suspect continued to drive aggressively at police before an "officer fired several rounds at the suspect."

"The suspect was wounded and was flown to the hospital for medical care where doctors later pronounced him deceased," police reports said.

Police are not releasing the name of the man until his family members have been notified.

Contact Vazquez at tvazquez@floridatoday.com, 321-917-7491 or on Twitter @tyler_vazquez. Support his work by subscribing to FloridaToday.com.