Anthony A. Mestas

amestas@chieftain.com

The use of deadly force against Jesse Cedillo by a Pueblo County Sheriff’s deputy has been ruled justified by District Attorney Jeff Chostner because the suspect appeared to raise a gun in his right hand as he moved toward the deputy.

Cedillo, 20, was shot and killed by deputy Jeff Alfonso after a pursuit on Quincy and Colorado streets. About 7 a.m. on March 14, the sheriff’s office got a report of an armed man driving a stolen car. The sheriff’s office said Cedillo almost had driven into a deputy before hitting a pole in an alley near Quincy and Colorado streets, where he began to run from the crash.

The sheriff’s office said the man showed a handgun as he was running along East Pitkin Avenue before he was shot and killed by the deputy.

Chostner, in his report, said that based on the facts of Tenth Judicial District Critical Incident Team investigators, the shooting appears to be justified based on the fears and threat of great bodily injury posed to the deputy.

Investigators said that Cedillo was armed and running toward Alfonso and that he continued to ignore the repeated commands to show his hand.

Chostner said his decision was based on and confirmed by interviews of the other officers involved, witnesses, body camera footage and a video taken by a neighbor. He also said the decision was based on evidence collected and the information developed from the execution of warrants.

“Additionally, I sought supplemental reviews from other agencies and experts in the field of Use of Force by Law Enforcement Personnel,” Choster said in his report.

Cedillo’s family told The Pueblo Chieftain in June that after seeing body camera footage themselves, they did not see a gun in his hand.

Members of the family -- including Jaelyn Cedillo, Jesse Cedillo’s 22-year-old sister -- were able to view the body camera footage in June.

Sean Simeson, an attorney with Baumgartner Law in Denver who is representing the family, said early Wednesday that his firm had not spoken to the family.

“I won’t be able to provide any comment until we’ve had the opportunity to discuss the DA’s decision with them,” Simeson wrote in a text message to The Chieftain.

Chostner said after hearing Cedillo’s family’s concerns about if he had a gun in his hand or not, Chostner asked the Colorado Bureau of Investigation to enhance the video.

There were three videos taken of the incident including Alfonso’s body camera, a cell phone video from a neighbor and a Ring Doorbell video from another neighbor’s home. All three were sent to CBI for forensic analysis. Alfonso’s body camera footage was enhanced.

“In my view, as supported by the video enhancement, there is no reasonable doubt that he had a gun in his right hand as he ran toward Deputy Alfonso,” Chostner said.

“It appears to be the same weapon that was found under Cedillo in the immediate aftermath of the shooting.”

Chostner said Blake Consulting and Training out of California reviewed the incident as well and came to the same conclusion that Cedillo had a gun in his right hand and that he ran toward the deputy.

According to Chostner, the firm has reviewed many incidents where law enforcement officers shoot suspects.

Chostner said Blake Consulting has testified evenly for and against law enforcement personnel.

According to the report, Cedillo was shot at 15 times in five seconds. He was hit five times.

“Deputy Alfonso used force after the suspect raised his gun in a manner that represented an imminent use of force,” Chostner said.

A police report indicates that a Kel-Tec .9mm was found on the ground next to Cedillo’s body and that he had in his pocket a loaded Glock 9mm magazine, loaded with 10 live cartridges and a black cell phone.

The Chieftain has made a Colorado Open Records Act request for the body camera footage. County officials said it would be available following the CIT’s investigation.

Chieftain reporter Anthony A. Mestas can be reached by email at amestas@chieftain.com or at twitter.com/mestas3517. Help support local journalism with a subscription to the Chieftain at chieftain.com/subscribenow.