Chris Mullins had an appointment with his doctor set for 4 p.m. on March 13 to address his continuing problems with bipolar disorder and hopefully leave with a prescription for a new medication that would ease his manic episodes.

He never made it to his appointment, though, because he was shot dead in his yard that day by Rutherford County deputies.

His wife, Brandy, had called 911 for an ambulance after Mullins, in the midst of a manic episode, began cutting himself with a knife.

Mullins' parents weren't at the family home, as they were out running errands, his mom told The Daily News Journal.

When they returned, they were met with complete chaos: Their 40-year-old son was bleeding from partially slicing his throat and stabbing himself in the stomach, deputies had swarmed him, and his wife was shouting and crying.

Tina Mullins pleaded with deputies, who had their guns drawn, not to shoot her middle child, the one who excelled at baseball in high school and the one whom she described as a family man.

As deputies surrounded Chris Mullins, they ordered him once to stop moving, the mom said, but her son continued to take a step, likely dizzy from blood loss, clutching his stomach with his head down.

Then deputies started shooting while Chris Mullins' parents and wife helplessly watched. After he was shot and on the ground, deputies released a K9 on him, his mom said.

“I was close enough to him that I saw every bullet hole that went into my child," Tina Mullins said.

Family plans to move

Two weeks after his death, his mom was able to share memories of her son, who worked as a machinist. Especially ones of him tinkering around with his car, replacing the stereo with one better and louder, cranking it up.

"'You'll bug the neighbors,'" she recalls telling her son.

In the weeks since Chris Mullins' killing, his family has been struggling to cope. The family home on Mt. Herman Road will be sold, Tina Mullins said, since they can't stand to stay there.

“(The deputies) took everything away from me," she said. "My home, my child. I mean, they took a lot of things that I'll never get back. My well being, everything.

“Every time I shut my eyes, I see my son being shot like that."

Similar incidents across state

Chris Mullins left behind his wife, whom he had only been married to for six months, along with four biological children and four stepchildren.

Allon Jones left behind a family, too.

Jones was killed by Rutherford County sheriff's deputies in February 2019 when they fatally shot him while he was brandishing a gun at his home on Breeze Drive. Before arriving at the scene, deputies knew Jones was making suicidal threats.

The Rutherford County Sheriff's Office said deputies had arrived to a possible hostage situation where Jones was holding family members captive, but audio from dispatchers never mentioned it, instead only sharing caution because of Jones' suicidal statements.

After an investigation by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, results were sent to District Attorney Jennings Jones, who, in September, declined to prosecute the deputies who killed Jones.

"After reviewing the facts of this case, it is the determination of the Office of the District Attorney that the members of the SWAT team acted in self-defense under a belief that they were being threatened with serious bodily injury or death by a subject armed with a deadly weapon," Jones wrote in a letter to TBI agents. "Because of this the shooting, while unfortunate, was justified."

In 2016, in Cordova, Shelby County deputies fatally shot a man who was cutting himself. The bullet struck Edmond "Eddie" Otis Studdard in the neck, paralyzing him for months before ultimately killing him.

Studdard's widow filed a federal suit against Shelby County, which was settled in March before it went to trial. Shelby County agreed to pay $800,000 to settle the case.

Before paying for the settlement, Shelby County lawyers asked both federal and appeals court judges to dismiss the case, and requested the U.S. Supreme Court to review it, all of which was denied, but still raising the question: When can police shoot you?

This is something Tina Mullins struggles with. After all, she said, he certainly posed a risk to himself, but not anyone else. And her son didn't threaten any family members during his mental health crisis.

“We’re going to do everything we possibly can to get justice," she said. "We’re going to get some type of justice from this.”

SUPPORT OUR WORK: To support award-winning journalism here in Murfreesboro, sign up for a digital subscription to DNJ.com.

Daniel Connolly in Memphis contributed. Reach Brinley Hineman at bhineman@gannett.com, at 615-278-5164 and on Twitter @brinleyhineman.