Child, father killed in apparent murder-suicide

Columbus, Kan. — A southeast Kansas man fatally shot his 8-year-old son and then turned the gun on himself after calling his estranged wife and threatening to kill the child unless she went to his home, authorities said.

Columbus police rushed to Russell Graham’s home after receiving a call from his worried wife just before midnight on Friday, said Cherokee County sheriff’s Deputy David Groves.

Graham, 38, was leaving the home when officers arrived minutes later, according to a media release. After noticing the officers, Graham shot himself in the head with a 12-gauge shotgun, dying instantly.

Officers found Graham’s son’s body inside the home. The child, whose name wasn’t released because of his age, had died of a single shot to the abdomen.

Authorities said the couple were in the middle of a divorce. An officer had supervised the exchange of their son earlier Friday night, said Sgt. Terry Clugston of the sheriff’s department.

Liberal air museum to keep doors open

Liberal — The Mid-America Air Museum, targeted for closing by one city commissioner, will be funded through 2004.

“Put in big print, ‘It’s open; it’s staying open,”‘ Mayor Jack Coole said.

City leaders will meet with museum officials to discuss how to increase attendance and improve the operation, Cooley said.

Commissioner Charles Craig had proposed closing the museum, one of Liberal’s top attractions, in light of an ever-tightening city budget and what he described as the limited tourist appeal of the city.

After discussing the matter at a budget workshop Thursday and listening to input from local residents, officials decided to keep the museum going.

The museum’s 2004 budget totals $225,000, with $150,000 coming from tax funds and the balance from expected admission fees and revenue from other museum programs.

The Mid-America museum houses 101 airplanes and other aircraft and is one of the largest air museums in the nation.

K.C. resident dies after struggle with police

Kansas City, Mo. — A man collapsed and died early Saturday shortly after struggling with police, authorities said.

Officers were patrolling an area of Kansas City north of the Missouri River when they spotted John Lewis, 36, of Kansas City, staggering in the middle of a road, police said in a media release.

Lewis appeared incoherent and attempted to get inside a police car. Officers handcuffed him after a struggle. The officers then called paramedics because his behavior led them to believe he needed medical help, the release said.

Lewis collapsed while paramedics were examining him. The cause of death will not be known until the medical examiner’s report is completed.