It was still dark outside when Lewistown's dispatch officers got the call; emergency medical assistance was needed for the victim of a gunshot wound.

Officers raced to the scene, a quiet residential neighborhood just a few blocks up from Fergus High School. The home they responded to on Crystal Drive belonged to Douglas John Foster, a long-time resident of Lewistown with no significant criminal history or unfavorable interactions with local police.

Foster wasn't a known troublemaker to local law enforcement, but it was a call for help to a scene involving some kind of gun fire.

"At the initial time they didn't know if it was a suicide or a homicide," said Lewistown Police Chief Justin Jenness.

When officers entered the home they found 52-year-old David Byron Sessions lying dead from a gunshot wound. Exactly where his body was found and the nature of Sessions' injuries has not been publicly released.

The initial caller reported seeing a vehicle leaving the area. Foster was nowhere to be seen.

Having not yet obtained a search warrant for the residence the police officers secured the building. In little more than an hour the Lewistown Police Department issued an Attempt To Locate (ATL) directive for Doug Foster and for his vehicle, a 1995 green Toyota flatbed truck. The officers then repeatedly attempted to "ping" Foster's cell phone in an effort to pinpoint his exact location.

It was a perplexing situation.

Lewistown is a generally peaceful community. The last homicide within the city of just under six-thousand was in 2002, when 70-year-old nursing home resident Gisla Morris was found stabbed and smothered to death following a botched burglary attempt. That horrific crime came to its conclusion two years later when 37-year-old John Stanley Jones was found guilty of the crime and sentence to 150 years in prison.

Doug Foster was well known in the community; an avid hunter and outdoorsman who made extra cash selling chandeliers and other home decorations made from antlers he collected in Montana.

"We're not aware of any felony convictions that he had," Jenness said of Foster. "It appears that he may have had some minor convictions from many years ago. Any contact that he's had with the Lewistown Police Department has been limited."

Previous coverage: Lewistown murder suspect killed in Dillon

Sessions was also a Lewistown resident, but little additional information regarding his habits or connections within the community was immediately available. A review of David Sessions' Facebook page relieves that he included Doug Foster as one of his social media friends.

"The full extent of their relationship is not fully known," Jenness said of the pair. "We believe they were just acquaintances or friends."

Whatever their connection, Lewistown police needed to find Foster. The immediate assumption was that Foster may have attempted to flee to the remote Missouri River Breaks backcountry east of Lewistown; an area he was intimately familiar with.

At 1:34 p.m. the Lewistown Justice Court issued an arrest warrant for Foster, citing him for a charge of deliberate homicide in the death of David Sessions. The Lewistown Police Department also requested help from the U.S. Marshall's Task Force.

Throughout last Saturday and on into Sunday tipsters called repeatedly reporting to have seen Foster in locations as diverse as Helena and Harlem, but the first confirmed sighting came in from a gas station in Burley, Idaho - a small town nearly 500 highway miles southwest of Lewistown, and just west of Twin Falls.

"It was believed (Foster) used a gas station employee's phone," Jenness said of the positive confirmation. "The employee was later shown a picture of the suspect and they confirmed (Foster) was the person who used the phone."

Surveillance video from the Idaho gas station was later used to positively identify both Foster and his vehicle. Using that information, investigators expanded the Attempt To Locate directive to include all the western United States.

At that point Doug Foster was beyond the confines Montana. He had not escaped, but he had a good head start. For whatever reason he changed course at some point and headed back toward Montana. The final chapter of his life was played out in Dillon, a small college town known for its hunting and fishing, and for its immediate access to U.S. Interstate 15.

"At approximately 8:20 p.m. (Sunday, March 15) a Dillon police officer and Beaverhead County deputy responded to a report of a suspicious person at a local business," said Dillon Police Chief Dan Guiberson, reading from a prepared news release. "The caller informed dispatch they recognized the male as a wanted homicide suspect from the Lewistown area."

That suspect was Doug Foster.

"She initially called and reported this to dispatch," Guiberson said speaking more informally. "Dispatch relayed it back to a Dillon city police officer who was on-duty at the time and he went down to check it out. As he's approaching the scene, she calls back and says she recognizes this man is wanted out of Lewistown for a homicide."

The call was concerning not only because Foster was wanted for murder, but also because the call came from a location at the center of Dillon.

"At this point dispatch advises her to go back in, take shelter, stay on the line, and try to look to see what kind of direction he was going," Guiberson said. "The Dillon city police officer was able to follow the vehicle until it got into a safe position, and until back-up had arrived. At this point the officers attempted to make a traffic stop."

The individual (Foster) turned his vehicle and then made a U-turn so he was directly facing officers. Officers made commands for (Foster) to get out and to shut the truck off. He declined to listen to the officers' commands.

More: Florida man pleads not guilty after 78-pound meth seizure in Montana

It's unclear what Foster's motives were at that point. Guiberson said he believes Foster had no significant connection to the community of Dillon, and that he likely only intended to stop briefly before moving on.

Why had he returned to Montana? Was it in an attempt to further elude police? Was he planning to return to Lewistown? Did he think of turning himself in, or was he motivated by the prospect of committing "suicide by cop?"

One shot was fired. Officers took cover, but initially held their fire. Another shot was fired and officers responded with lethal force. It was over in a matter of minutes.

"The officers did what they could," Guiberson said of the dangerous situation. "It appeared the suspect was maybe going out onto the interstate. At this point the officers did not attempt a traffic stop because they were wanting him to get out toward the interstate where there were less people and less likelihood of anybody else getting injured."

"A Dairy Queen and the Town and Country (convenience store) are right by there," he added. "He put them in that situation and that's where he chose to pull over. That's where in incident occurred."

Much like Lewistown, Dillon is a small town where serious crime is a rarity. A homicide did occur there just last January, when 49-year-old Larry Coon, a Navy veteran and long-time Dillon resident, was found dead in his residence. Three area residents have been implicated and arrested in that crime, but the last officer-involved shooting in Dillon was back in 2008.

"Most of the stuff (we deal with) is on a welfare check or community oriented type of business," Guiberson said.

The implications of Doug Foster's violent final days will resonate in both Lewistown and Dillon long after the criminal investigation is over.

"I would put my department up with any as far as training and competency," Guiberson said of the confidence he has in his officers. "They're just shear good community oriented police officers. They do what's right. They make the right decisions. I trust them to do their job - which they did - and I couldn't be prouder of all of them that were involved."

"It's unfortunate for him and any loved ones he leaves behind," Guiberson said of Doug Foster's demise, "but it's also had a direct impact on my officers and their families. It does stay with you. I had to make several calls that evening to wives and family members just to let them know while they're still at the scene.

"I'm just glad that no one in the public or any of the officers got hurt," he added. "It's unfortunate that the suspect did; however, he made those choices."

The investigation into the deaths of David Sessions and Doug Foster are ongoing.

David Murray is Natural Resources/Outdoors reporter for the Great Falls Tribune. To contact him with comments or story ideas; email at dmurray@greatfallstribune.com or call (406) 791-6574. To support his work,subscribe today and get a special offer.