NEW:

The St. Joseph Co. Prosecutor's office released new information regarding autopsy results on a man who had a taser used on him by St. Joe Co. Police.

The most recent release is below.

St. Joseph County- The autopsy of Allen Boehnlein, 58, was performed today in Ft. Wayne, IN. The forensic pathologist noted the following during the autopsy: taser dart probe in the left lower abdomen; bruising and puncture wound to right forearm; bruising and puncture to left posterior thigh ; and several small lacerations to inside of both hands.

The cause and manner of Mr. Boehnlein’s death is pending toxicological and microscopic examinations, as well as further review of Mr. Boehnlein’s medical history. Test results are expected within the next couple of weeks. The St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Unit (CMHU) continues to actively investigate, and will release further information as it is able to do so.

EARLIER POST:

Today the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's office released more information regarding the incident in which a Granger man died after a taser was used on him.

The full release is below.

St. Joseph County- The St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Unit (CMHU) continues to actively investigate yesterday’s death of a man during a St. Joseph County Police Department call to a house on Conover Drive in Granger. Police were called out to the home a little before 1:30 p.m. on reports of a man chasing his wife through the house with a knife.



The deceased has been identified as Allen Boehnlein, 58 years old.



As mentioned in yesterday’s SJCPD press conference, a Taser was deployed during this incident. The officer who deployed the Taser has been identified as Cpl. Aris Lee.



An autopsy has been scheduled for Mr. Boehnlein tomorrow morning at 10:00 a.m. in Fort Wayne, IN. CMHU will release more information about the investigation as it is able to do so.



PREVIOUS POST:

A domestic call in Granger Wednesday resulted in the death of the suspect.

St. Joseph County Police were dispatched to Conover Drive in Granger for a call that a male was chasing his wife around with a knife.

Police say officers found the man laying on the ground in the garage with a knife in his hand. The suspect refused to let go of the knife.

An officer then used a taser on the man and was able to handcuff him. Police say the man began having trouble breathing and officers began CPR. Medics arrived and began life-saving efforts which were unsuccessful.



The man was pronounced dead.

County Sheriff Bill Redman said people in the house indicated the man was suffering with mental health issues.

“Mental health is certainly something we take very seriously and try to get people the assistance they need so it doesn’t end up in situations like we have today.”

St. Joseph County recently hired a mental health liaison officer.

