Advisory

The following is a summary of the events that took place leading up to an officer involved shooting on March 21, 2020. The information contained within is based on the investigation thus far.



On March 21, 2020 at about 11:10 am, Kern County Sheriff’s Deputies assigned to the Mojave Substation were dispatched to a business in the 2300 block of Highway 58 for a report of a subject trespassing and threatening customers. When deputies arrived, the subject had already left the area. Employees from the business said they did not want the subject to return and provided deputies with a description. After deputies left the business, they located a subject, later identified as 30-year-old Israel Lucas, matching the description in the area. Deputies spoke with Lucas, who acknowledged being at the business and told deputies he would continue to do what he wanted. Lucas then walked back to the business he had been trespassing at and stood in the doorway. Deputies contacted an employee inside the business, who confirmed Lucas was the person who had been trespassing. The employee approached Lucas and advised him he was trespassing and needed to leave the property.



Lucas refused to leave the private property. Deputies then advised Lucas he was trespassing, and he needed to leave. Lucas again refused and threatened violence against the deputies if they got any closer. Deputies informed Lucas he was under arrest and began attempting to place him into handcuffs. Lucas immediately began trying to break free of the deputy’s grasp. A deputy utilized oleoresin capsicum spray (pepper spray) on Lucas however it had no effect. Lucas continued fighting with deputies, forcing them into a glass wall multiple times and punching each of them in the face at least once. During the struggle, Lucas gained control of one of the deputy’s batons. Lucas began chasing the deputy swinging the baton, striking the deputy at least once on the shoulder. Recognizing that Lucas was armed with a baton and striking a deputy with it, the additional deputy on scene discharged his firearm at Lucas causing him to stop the attack.



Lucas fell to the ground and the involved deputies began rendering medical aid. Deputies continued providing medical aid until ambulance personnel arrived and determined Lucas was deceased. The area was then secured pending the completion of an investigation by the Kern County Sheriff’s Office Homicide Unit.



The two deputies involved were placed on routine administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.



Multiple witnesses in the area were interviewed by detectives however if anyone has further information, they are urged to contact the Sheriff’s Office at (661)861-3110.

