Anticipating Mars

The Red Planet won't be this close again until Aug 28, 2287

Sunday, August 17, 2003 - Morning Sun A public program is set for Sept. 5 at 10 p.m. at Abernathy Science Center entitled "Mars: A Closer Look."The event will be presented by Dr. David Kuehn, professor of physics at Pittsburg State University.Mars has reached its closest approach to Earth in almost 60,000 years and Kuehn will review the current plans for exploration of Mars by both robots and humans. They will also look at science results from the recent past from Hubble Space Telescope, NASA, and ground-based observatories. A 40-minute presentation will be followed by observations of Moon and Mars at the nearby PSU-Greenbush Astrophysical Observatory, weather-permitting. For more information, contact Brad Stefanoni at 620-724-6281 orHEAD:Mars: A Closer LookBYLINE1:By Andra Bryan StefanoniBYLINE2:Special to the Morning SunBy technical description, Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun, is slightly red in color, and is named after the Greek god of war.But to modern culture, Mars seems to be much more than that. Historically it has captured the imaginations of many who have conjured up ideas of life on another planet - one that perhaps could support our own lives someday, one that has spurred movie makers and science fiction writers to bring forth aliens and space ships and advanced forms of communication.Telescopes in the 1880s revealed strange markings on Mars that convinced the masses that Mars had canals built by an alien race. Were these "martians" warlike and should we fear an invasion?Since 1960, Mars has frequented the news as the result of several unmanned NASA missions; more recently the rover Pathfinder in 1997 and currently the 2003 Mars Exploration Rover 2 which will land on the Red Planet in January.This month, Mars is in the news again because of its position in relation to Earth. Even amateur, or "backyard," astronomers are sure to see something because of its nearness - something that experts say won't happen again in our lifetimes or those of our children, grandchildren, or great great-great grandchildren."We will be able to see Mars all fall, albeit fainter, but more conveniently placed in the evening sky after sunset when most people watch the sky," said Dr. David Kuehn, professor of physics at Pittsburg State University. "The next close opposition will occur in about 18 years, but Mars will not get this close again until Aug 28, 2287."Kuehn typically does his astronomical viewing through a 24" reflecting telescope at the PSU-Greenbush Astrophysical Observatory at the Education Service Center, but he says a research-grade telescope is not what viewers need to see Mars.Aside from visiting a local observatory, peering through a "backyard telescope" is the best way to take advantage of this unique opportunity. Since June, Mars has been noticeably bright in the night's sky, only outshined by Venus and our own moon, which peaked as full on Aug. 11."Right now Mars is near opposition, which means that Mars and the Sun are opposite each other in the sky as seen from Earth. Opposition can be thought of in terms of an car race between two cars on a circular track," Kuehn explained. "One car is faster and on the inside track (Earth) and the other is slower and on the outside track (Mars). Every so often, the faster car passes the slower. Right now Earth is passing Mars on the inside and as a result, we are very close to Mars."In the hours before midnight, Mars can be seen low in the southeast, Kuehn said. Mars will be highest in the sky at around midnight, but even then will be low in the southern sky. It will appear as a bright red-orange "star," brighter than any star around it. Just before dawn, Mars will be low in the southwest sky.At a modest 75-power magnification Mars will look as large as the full moon to the naked eye.For amateur astronomers who do have a backyard telescope, details on the surface of Mars will be visible, including dust clouds, volcanic terrains, and - what many believe is the best of all - the polar ice cap. The polar ice cap won't be visible forever, though: it is melting.According to reports released by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, the southern hemisphere of Mars is tipped toward Earth and its bright southern cap, which reflects more sunlight than any other part of the planet, is remarkably easy to see.Like Earth, Mars has seasons that cause its polar caps to wax and wane. According to NASA, summer on Mars begins Sept. 29; by then much of the polar cap will be gone.Kuehn said Mars was "almost this close" in 1988 - then it was 80 kilometers further away - but to put things in perspective, we're still talking about "a minimum separation of 34.68 million miles." Not since approximately 60,000 years ago, according to most scientific estimates, has it been as close as it will be in August.In comparison to the space between your house and your neighbor's yard, that may seem like a large distance, but Mars was about five times that distance from Earth only six months ago.The word 'planet' is derived from the Greek expression for 'wanderer.' At such a close distance, Mars remains true to this expectation as it consistently wanders across the night's sky. Tracking the "red star's" movement from week to week is yet another way to appreciate this rare occasion, since Mars appears to dart across the sky in comparison to more distant planets, such as Jupiter.Although Mars will be closest on Aug. 27, astronomers suggest viewing it between now and then, as dust storm season is just beginning on Mars and might eventually obstruct a more detailed view.In 2005, amateur astronomers also will have a chance to see Mars a little closer than it usually is."Every two years or so, Mars reaches opposition - a position opposite from the Sun as seen from Earth - and this allows earthlings to view it much closer than normal," Kuehn explained.On the Net: