The FBI said a Belton man who plotted to bomb a hospital died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Timothy Wilson died March 24. FBI agents were attempting to arrest him as part of a domestic terrorism investigation. Authorities said Wilson, who was armed with a weapon, was injured and taken to a hospital, where he later died.The FBI said a monthslong investigation revealed Wilson to be a potentially violent extremist, motivated by racial, religious and anti-government animus.Investigators said Wilson was actively planning to commit an act of domestic terrorism, a bombing, and decided to accelerate his plan to use a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device. The FBI said Wilson considered various targets and ultimately settled on a hospital in an attempt to harm many people.The FBI said an autopsy was done on March 27 at the Frontier Forensics Midwest Morgue of Kansas City, Kansas. It was determined by the coroner that Wilson died from a gunshot wound of the head, consistent with a self-inflicted act. The death was ruled a suicide.Wilson did have gunshot wounds from FBI agents to his upper and lower extremities, however none of these injuries were determined to be fatal, investigators said.

The FBI said a Belton man who plotted to bomb a hospital died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Timothy Wilson died March 24. FBI agents were attempting to arrest him as part of a domestic terrorism investigation. Authorities said Wilson, who was armed with a weapon, was injured and taken to a hospital, where he later died.



Advertisement

The FBI said a monthslong investigation revealed Wilson to be a potentially violent extremist, motivated by racial, religious and anti-government animus.

Investigators said Wilson was actively planning to commit an act of domestic terrorism, a bombing, and decided to accelerate his plan to use a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device. The FBI said Wilson considered various targets and ultimately settled on a hospital in an attempt to harm many people.

The FBI said an autopsy was done on March 27 at the Frontier Forensics Midwest Morgue of Kansas City, Kansas. It was determined by the coroner that Wilson died from a gunshot wound of the head, consistent with a self-inflicted act. The death was ruled a suicide.

Wilson did have gunshot wounds from FBI agents to his upper and lower extremities, however none of these injuries were determined to be fatal, investigators said.

