On March 26, 2020, My brother, John Mark Hendrick Jr. was wrongfully killed by Davidson County, NC Sheriffs Department. A friend of his showed up and asked him to ride with him somewhere. The friend was driving a “rented” Mercedes SUV. John Mark Hendrick Jr. was in the passenger seat and another guy was in the backseat. The driver went through a YELLOW light and an officer turned on his blue lights. The friend would not stop. When my brother, John Mark Hendrick Jr., and the other passenger asked the driver to pull over, he said he was not going back to jail and the vehicle was actually stolen. John Mark Hendrick Jr. immediately called 911 to let them know he had nothing to do with it and wanted out of the vehicle. The driver even told the 911 dispatcher if they would tell the deputies to fall back, he would let my brother and the other passenger out of the car and they could proceed to chase after him. The deputies refused. John Mark Hendrick Jr. made a total of THREE 911 calls pleading for help. After a long chase, Davidson County, NC Sheriffs did a pit maneuver to stop the vehicle. The vehicle was completely stopped and blocked in bumper to bumper. My brother, John “Mark” Hendrick Jr. was still on the phone with 911 at this time and had his hands in the air. The deputies knew my brother was on the phone with 911 and did not want to be in that vehicle. Two Davidson County deputies immediately jumped out of their vehicle and without any warning at all, started firing into the passenger side only. They fired 3-6 shots, instantly killing my brother, John Mark Hendrick Jr. After the SBI finished their investigation, they left the decision to charge the deputies up to the county’s district attorney. The district attorney decided he did not want to charge “HIS” deputies but instead, charged the driver with first degree murder. While I do believe the driver should be held accountable for his actions, he is not the one who actually pulled the trigger killing John Mark Hendrick Jr. The deputies did! There were no weapons or drugs or anything else of that nature in the vehicle. The Davidson County Sheriffs Department justified the deputies shooting by saying the driver tried using the vehicle as a weapon to run them over. This is not true! They were blocked bumper to bumper front and back. There was no way to move the vehicle. And if the deputies really felt threatened, why didn’t they shoot the driver? Why did they ONLY shoot into the passenger side? My family and I are seeking justice and want these deputies to be held accountable. We have been protesting, making flyers, shirts, signs, and we have this petition for signatures. I am begging any and everyone, PLEASE SIGN AND SHARE THIS PETITION! My brother called 911 for help but instead was killed! If the petition asks you to donate, you can but don’t have to, you can bypass this part by simply clicking the “skip” button at the bottom of the screen. My family and I would appreciate the support so much! Thank you all!

#JusticeForMark