A Marion County grand jury unanimously found on Friday that three Oregon State Police troopers were justified in shooting a man on Interstate 5 near Salem.

The shooting south of Delaney Road on March 26 left William Patrick Floyd, 51, of Oregon City, dead and closed I-5 for several hours.

A dash-camera video caught the incident, during which Floyd was shot 16 times in 7 seconds.

Following the shooting, the involved troopers, Trooper Sherron DeBerry, Trooper Caleb Yoder and Recruit Trooper Joshua Buckles, were placed on administrative leave and the Salem Police Department was called in to investigate.

The night of the shooting, 911 received a call about a potential road-rage incident on southbound I-5 near Keizer.

The caller described an older-style van with a spare tire and ladder attached to the back with the driver driving aggressively and throwing objects out the window.

Yoder responded to the call in a marked patrol vehicle, leaving from Oregon State Police headquarters located on Trestad Avenue SE. He quickly found the described van and followed it, watching as the driver swerved and crossed over a white line.

Previous coverage:Oregon State Troopers in fatal shooting on Interstate 5 south of Salem identified

The trooper initiated a standard traffic stop by turning on his overhead lights.

The van continued for a short distance at a normal speed but then suddenly pulled to the shoulder and stopped.

Troopers spot a gun in the van

When Yoder approached the passenger window, he saw a single male driver, later identified as Floyd. A black semi-automatic handgun was on the center console area, unholstered and about 6 inches from Floyd.

Yoder first told the driver the conversation was being recorded and why he stopped him.

He then told him:

“I see that you’ve got a gun right there. Don’t reach for it. And don’t touch it. Just go ahead and keep your hands on the steering wheel.”

A few moments later, Yoder told Floyd to provide his license and registration, but “don’t touch the gun, or I’ll shoot you.”

Yoder noted the smell of alcohol around Floyd and said he seemed lethargic and possibly intoxicated.

"During their brief conversation, Floyd had to be reminded several times to keep his hands on the steering wheel," Marion County prosecutors said in a statement. "Trooper Yoder described Floyd as not quite confrontational, but not friendly either."

Support local journalism: Get the latest on crime and criminal justice news. Become a Statesman Journal subscriber and get unlimited digital access to stories that matter.

Yoder called for backup.

Backup arrives

The first troopers to arrive were DeBerry and Buckles. Buckles approached the passenger side where Yoder was continuing his traffic stop with Floyd, and after seeing the firearm, Buckles asked DeBerry to approach the van as well.

At the same time, Trooper Michael Iacob arrived and walked to the driver's side of the van.

Yoder used his flashlight to illuminate the gun in the van and told the others that he had told the driver to keep his hands on the wheel “about five times, and he’s not doing what I’m telling him to.”

Yoder walked back behind the van while Iacob took over speaking with Floyd.

Described as white-knuckled and staring straight ahead, Floyd also seemed very nervous, Iacob said.

Iacob, too, noticed a strong odor of alcohol coming from Floyd. Floyd complied with Iacob's instructions and turned off his vehicle.

Coronavirus:As hundreds enter Oregon's closed parks and beaches, crackdown possible

When Iacob asked Floyd where the gun was located, Floyd moved towards the weapon. He again instructed Floyd to not touch it.

Although Floyd initially complied, he moved towards to gun several more times as though he was debating whether to pick it up, Iacob said.

"This repeated movement eventually caused Trooper Iacob to react by leaning in and grabbing Floyd’s arm," prosecutors said.

A struggle begins

Iacob stated that as soon as he touched Floyd, he said “(explicative) you,” and the pair began to struggle.

Witnesses said Floyd “switched his whole body,” and picked up the gun.

Although Floyd initially dropped the weapon, he was able to pick it up again.

Several troopers, including DeBerry, yelled “Hey! Hey! Hey!” and “Hand off the gun!”

After a momentary lull, witnesses heard another shout of, "hand off the gun."

Multiple gunshots rang out.

DeBerry fired several rounds at Floyd through the passenger window. Buckles dropped back and then also fired several rounds at Floyd through the side window.

On the dash-camera, shouts of "shots fired" and "we need the highway shutdown at 248" can be heard.

Yoder, who was behind the van when the struggle with Floyd began, approached the driver side where Iacob was still struggling with Floyd.

As shots were fired, Yoder dropped back then fired a single shot toward the driver's side as he moved backward towards cover.

Iacob, who was physically wrestling with Floyd when the shots were fired, retreated from the driver's side and took cover in the bushes on the side of I-5. He did not fire his weapon during the struggle.

"Despite being physically entangled with Floyd as shots were fired, Trooper Iacob was not shot, although he did sustain minor abrasions and injuries from the retreat," prosecutors said. "No other trooper was injured during the incident."

Floyd was shot 16 times in 7 seconds. He was found with entry wounds in his right thigh, right-side torso and right arm.

Floyd continued moving after the shooting, and unable to see through the curtained back windows of the van, the troopers could not safely pull him from the vehicle. They fired several "less-than-lethal" rounds to try to break the back windows but were unsuccessful.

Oregon coronavirus Friday update:4 new deaths, 51 new cases in Oregon

Officers from several other agencies responded to the scene.

Armored vehicle arrives

Salem Police were eventually able to deploy their armored vehicle to approach the driver's side of the van. Using the vehicle as cover, officers were able to remove Floyd from the van.

Police immediately rendered medical aid, however, Floyd was pronounced deceased at the scene.

Due to the Marion County protocol for deadly force investigations involving officers, an investigation was conducted by an outside agency, the Salem Police Department.

During their investigation, Salem police found a black semi-automatic pistol on the driver’s seat of the van. The gun was loaded, with a bullet in the chamber and three rounds missing from the magazine.

Floyd was in lawful possession of the firearm and had a valid Oregon concealed weapons permit.

Investigators found several spent casings matching the ammunition in Floyd’s weapon on the floorboards of the van but were unable to determine from the scene whether Floyd shot the weapon during this incident.

The grand jury reviewed evidence, witness testimony and dash-camera footage before finding that the officers reasonably believed deadly force was necessary, Floyd was attempting to commit a felony by using physical force against another person and the officers’ lives were endangered.

The Marion Count grand jury unanimously concluded that the actions of Yoder, DeBerry and Buckles were justified and lawful.

"The Grand Jury engaged in a very thorough and thoughtful review of this incident," Marion County District Paige Clarkson said. "Their service in such an important case is truly essential to ensure transparency and maintain confidence in our law enforcement officers. But it was especially remarkable today given the public health crisis surrounding our community.

"This case highlights the very dangerous work our police officers engage in every day. I am proud of the work that they do in placing their lives on the line to protect our community and am thankful that these troopers all returned home to their families that night."

For questions, comments and news tips, email reporter Whitney Woodworth at wmwoodwort@statesmanjournal.com, call 503-910-6616 or follow on Twitter @wmwoodworth