A group of roommates was trying to remove another roommate who was "acting strange" when a shooting on Sunday at the Phoenix residence killed a police commander and injured two other officers, officials revealed Monday morning.

Officers responded to a call about a family fight at 4:40 p.m. Sunday at a residence near 40th Drive and Pinnacle Peak Road, Phoenix Sgt. Mercedes Fortune said in a Monday press conference.

Officers soon learned that the call was for a group of roommates trying to remove another roommate from the house because he was "acting strange and a bit erratic," Fortune said.

"When the officers arrived, the roommate was cooperative," Fortune said. "There was no indication that there were any problems."

The officers told the roommate, identified as 22-year-old Jacob Emry Mcilveen, he would have to leave, and they helped him remove some of his property, according to a Phoenix police statement.

Fortune said at some point during the call, the roommate Mcilveen closed the door and left the officers outside.

More officers arrived at the residence and were able to go inside one more time, Fortune said. The officers could not see Mcilveen as he was upstairs, but they were able to talk to him, police said.

The officers were able to have a conversation with the roommate, who now didn't want to leave the house, Fortune said.

"At some point, the three officers walked up the stairs and that's when that suspect opened fire on the officers," Fortune said.

The gunshots struck Cmdr. Greg Carnicle, Officer Marissa Dowhan and Officer Alicia Hubert, police said. One of the other officers, who had remained downstairs, fired in the direction of Mcilveen.

The officers' injuries prevented them from getting out of the house, police said.

"The courage of the additional officers that responded to that scene as they entered that house to ensure that those officers were removed safely is incredible," Fortune said.

The officers were transported to the hospital and the two injured officers are expected to survive, Fortune said.

Carnicle was pronounced dead at the hospital, Fortune said.

Back at the scene, officers stayed at the house in hopes that the suspect would surrender, Fortune said.

Fortune said the armed suspect came out of the house with a handgun and "an officer-involved shooting occurred."

The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene, Fortune said.

'Very well liked among his fellow officers'

A 31-year veteran of the department, Carnicle oversaw all evening and weekend patrol operations, the Phoenix Police Department said in a Facebook post. It said he had held positions throughout the department, singling out his stints with the special assignments unit, the K-9 unit, Professional Standards Bureau and the Crime Lab.

Carnicle, 56, was set to retire this fall and "wanted to finish out this time on the force back where he started, protecting the streets of Phoenix," according to the police statement. Last summer, he approached Chief Jeri Williams and asked to be the duty commander for patrol.

"Commander Carnicle was very well liked among his fellow officers. He was known for his dry sense of humor and his direct, yet caring style," police said, in the statement. He left behind a wife and four adult children.

Dowhan, 23, has been with the department for three years, while Hubert, 22, has spent just under two years with the department.

Despite serious physical injuries, both Dowhan and Hubert are expected to recover.

To honor Carnicle, Gov. Doug Ducey ordered flags at all state buildings to be lowered to half-staff on Monday.

Phoenix police tweeted that anyone wanting to help the families of the fallen officer and two others who were injured can give to Phoenix Police Foundation at https://www.phxpolicefoundation.org. One hundred percent of the donations go to the families, the department tweeted.

Reach the breaking news reporter at tina.giuliano@arizonarepublic.com and follow her on twitter @TinaMGiuliano.