Newburgh police have provided further details on the fatal officer-involved shooting incident on Friday.

Police said around 5 p.m., city of Newburgh officers approached a man on 40 William Street, who was wanted for questioning in connection to a shooting incident on Thursday. The shooting took place in the area of Benkard Ave. and William Street.

Police with long guns are out at the scene . Pushing onlookers back farther away from scene @SPECNewsHV pic.twitter.com/PY6DTTn0Pt — Olivia Leach (@OliviaLeachNews) March 27, 2020

Police claim the man then showed a silver handgun and during a struggle the gun went off, resulting in "multiple" officers returning fire.

Newburgh police said the officers were taken to a local hospital for treatment and the suspect has since been declared dead at a local hospital. They additionally noted the case is now a joint investigation with the New York State Police and the Orange County District Attorney’s Office, pending a grand jury.

Newburgh police released the following statement, in part:

“A review of body-worn camera and street cameras shows that when officers approached the man, he displayed a silver handgun and began fighting with officers, striking one of the officers in the head with a handgun. During the encounter the man discharged the pistol and City of Newburgh Police Officers fired their weapons. One City of Newburgh Police Officer was taken to the hospital and treated for a gunshot wound, as well as injuries to his head. After the armed man was shot, City of Newburgh Police Officers attempted CPR. However, after transport to St. Luke’s Hospital for treatment, the man was subsequently pronounced dead.



To ensure public confidence in the integrity of the investigation stills from a portion of one of the officer’s body-worn camera footage is being released to the media.”



“Normally in an investigation of this type of incident we would not be releasing images this early in the investigation,” said District Attorney David Hoovler. “However, to allay community concerns, which quite frankly have been stoked by misinformation coming from a city official, we are releasing these images showing the armed man discharging his gun.”