ASHEVILLE - Police have identified the suspect believed to have opened fire at the Buncombe County Courthouse the morning of March 31.

Shane Tilman Kent, 29, of Asheville, was killed on the scene.

Police said in a release the preliminary investigation indicates he was armed with a 9 mm handgun and fired shots at a law enforcement officer.

More:Suspected shooter at Buncombe courthouse has been killed, officials say

Kent was previously known to law enforcement and fired his weapon from inside a Chevrolet SUV of which he was not the registered owner, the release said.

Deputies within the Buncombe County Courthouse responded to the scene immediately and confronted Kent. Sheriff Quentin Miller confirmed in a statement that a deputy killed the suspect.

No courthouse employees or bystanders were injured in the shooting. Lt. Dale Den Ouden, with the sheriff's office, received a non-life threatening injury to his arm.

More:Watch police rush to report of active shooter near Buncombe County Courthouse

APD spokeswoman Christina Hallingse said Kent's motive is unknown.

She said police will not be releasing additional information and that anything further would come from the State Bureau of Investigation, which is leading the investigation with APD's assistance.

The sheriff's office will not be involved in the investigation.

A history of breaking & entering

Public records indicate Kent had been involved in several criminal court cases, but none of them appear to have been for violent crimes.

Kent spent about a year in prison beginning in May 2014, according a North Carolina Department of Public Safety Offender database. His principal offense was felony breaking and entering connected to a 2012 incident.

According to Citizen Times reports from that year, Kent was arrested for two break-ins in Fairview. He was accused of breaking into Fairview Grocery at 1612 Charlotte Highway and stealing cigarettes and beer valued at $75. He also was accused of breaking into an occupied home on Webb Creek Road and stealing a firearm.

In 2009, when he was 18, Kent was charged — alongside two others — with breaking into a trailer in Fairview and stealing clothes, luggage, beer, food, a comforter and a blanket, the Citizen Times reported.

The NCDPS database shows Kent was sentenced that year to community service for misdemeanor larceny and breaking and entering.

Mackenzie Wicker covers Buncombe County for the Asheville Citizen Times. You can reach her at mwicker@citizentimes.com or follow her on Twitter @MackWick.

Read more: Subscribe to the Citizen Times here.