VISTA -- About 200 people gathered to pray and grieve Thursdaynight at the home of the 20-year-old Vista High School graduate whowas fatally shot by three sheriff’s deputies Sunday morning.

Most of the people in attendance at the rosary ceremony thatspilled out onto the streets and into neighbors’ yards expressedanger at the sheriff’s deputies and accused them of killing SergioRamos because of his race.

The Sheriff’s Department has disputed the claim and reportedthat Ramos ignored their orders to drop a kitchen knife he washolding and charged at the three deputies before they fired 15shots that killed him in front of his home on West Indian Rock Roadin Vista.

Advertisement

“We want to let the police know they can’t get away with thisjust because he was Latino,” said Ramos’ aunt Maria Ortiz, whohelped organize the event. “If it was a white person they wouldhave used another approach.

“Latinos get no respect and we want to be heard.”

Candles and flowers lay along the side of the driveway, andposters denouncing the police hung on the garage behind a tableholding petitions decrying the deputies’ actions. The family plansto send the petitions to the offices of Gov. Gray Davis, Lt. Gov.Cruz Bustamente and the Mexican Consul in San Diego. The familyalso sold T-shirts bearing a photo of Ramos, and passed out fliersannouncing plans to march in protest along Santa Fe Avenue at 5p.m. Tuesday.

Ramos’ father, Sergio Ramos, could not hold back tears Thursdayas a deacon from St. Francis Catholic Church led the gathering inprayer. Sergio Ramos said he believed his son was killed because hewas Mexican. His sentiments were echoed by Fortunata Ulloa, themother of a Vista resident killed by Oceanside police officers onJune 28 after he allegedly attempted to run over an officer in theTemple Heights area of Oceanside.

But Ulloa and Ramos were not the only people who said policeofficers and sheriff’s deputies treat Latinos unfairly.

“I’m mad because I don’t think the police protect Mexicans atall, they just harm them,” said Reginaldo De Casa. “I always toldmy son to call the police if he had a problem, but he came to methis week and said he was afraid of the police.”

Many of the people were family and friends, but people came fromthroughout North County to show their support for the Ramos familyand to express their displeasure at the deputies.

Jose Rodriguez, a board operator for the Spanish talk radiostation La Nueva 106.5 , said about 30 people called to complainabout the shooting during a four-hour morning show Thursday.

“People from all around North County said they were tired abouthow police handle these type of situations,” Rodriguez said.

Ramos’ aunt said there will be viewing of the body from 4 p.m.to 8 p.m. today at Eternal Hills Mortuary and a service at 1 p.m.Saturday at St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Church in Vista.