The content of this page is covered by and subject to our legal disclaimer

Police pursuit ends in fatal crash at Bellevue Avenue and Williamson Boulevard

DAYTONA BEACH, FL, (April 02, 2020) - Kanadei Benjamin, 37, of Daytona Beach, and her 7-year-old niece sadly lost their lives in a senseless collision Wednesday in Daytona Beach.

Kanadei Benjamin and her 7-year-old niece lost their lives in a senseless collision Wednesday in Daytona Beach.

The Florida Highway Patrol said that Daytona Beach police had attempted to stop an eastbound vehicle on Bellevue Avenue which refused to stop. Police decided to break off pursuit, but the vehicle continued until it struck the victim's 2008 Toyota Avalon. The fleeing driver was identified as Nelson Reed, 33, of Daytona Beach.

Tragically, both Ms. Benjamin and the child succumbed to injuries at the scene.

Reed and a passenger were transported to an area hospital with minor injuries.

Police say charges are pending.

FATAL ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION

The accident is under investigation by the Daytona Beach Police Department. Investigators will issue a report when the investigation is complete.

Candice Bond, an experienced auto accident attorney, was interviewed by The Legal Advocate. She said in cases such as this it's imperative to have an independent probe conducted by a seasoned lawyer to better preserve evidence.

“An attorney can collect the proper evidence to help prove that a driver’s actions were reckless, which requires a variety of resources,” said Bond, who is Managing Partner of Bond Sanchez-Gordon.

“In addition to the diligent work of law enforcement, an attorney can re-interview important witnesses, analyze evidence from the scene and obtain phone and texting records of a potentially liable party. Serving as an advocate, an attorney can help compassionately guide a family during this difficult time, protecting their rights, while ensuring that a driver who does not obey traffic laws is held accountable.”

FLORIDA WRONGFUL DEATH ATTORNEY

Pending the investigation,may be entitled to a wrongful death claim. Family members of wrongful death victims may seek damages for loss of companionship, pain and suffering, and emotional distress following a tragic or catastrophic accident such as this.

“The stress and sorrow can be extremely overwhelming after losing a loved one in an accident,” said Andrew Wright, of counsel with Bond Sanchez-Gordon.

“We understand just what families are forced to go through, and having their rights protected is vital. A wrongful death lawyer will stay updated on the official investigation and help ensure that their legal rights and best interests are protected.”

If you or a family member have been involved in an accident similar to this article and would like to speak to our national legal analysts Candice Bond or Andrew Wright free of charge, please use the contact information found on this page

(Candice Bond, Managing Partner, and Andrew Wright, Of Counsel, at Bond Legal, are the national legal analysts for The Legal Advocate. The Legal Advocate can and does use quotes from prior interviews with our analysts for our news articles. If you would like to contact Bond Legal to help you, please call 866-599-0297 or use the submission box found on this page. Legal analysts quoted may or may not be licensed in your state).