TRENTON – A Pennsylvania man who died in Trenton Police custody in April told officers who were on top of him that he couldn’t breathe, police body-camera video shows.

State authorities on Thursday released three videos that captured the in-custody death of Stephen Dolceamore, 29, of Clifton Heights Borough in Pennsylvania, who died during an encounter with Trenton Police officers on April 3 outside St. Francis Medical Center.

“I can’t breathe,” Dolceamore is heard saying on one of the videos, as officers struggled to gain control of him on the ground.

He repeatedly shouted for “help” as Sgt. Anthony Manzo and other officers ordered him to get on the ground and put his hands behind his back.

At one point, Dolceamore told officers who were on his back while he was handcuffed on his stomach that they were “smothering” him.

The officers remained on top of Dolceamore for at least three minutes after getting him handcuffed, the videos showed.

“Give us your hands and stop,” one of the officers said as another repeatedly punched Dolceamore in the side in an attempt to get him to put one of his hands behind his back so the officers could get him in handcuffs.

“Come on, my man. It’s done. It’s over,” an officer said.

“Come on, dude. It ain’t that hard,” Manzo told the man. Later in the video, Manzo asked Dolceamore, “What did you take?” suggesting the cop thought Dolcemore was hopped up on drugs.

The state Attorney General’s is still investigating Dolcemamore’s death, but the videos provided a glimpse of the officers’ perspective during what turned into a deadly struggle.

Bystander videos previously obtained by The Trentonian showed officers chasing, macing, pummeling, and using their knees to straddle over the emotionally disturbed man’s legs and chest while his hands appeared restrained behind his back.

Under state law, the AG’s office of Public Integrity and Accountability and the New Jersey State Police Homicide Unit by law must investigate whenever someone dies during an encounter with cops or while in custody.

Once the investigation is completed, a grand jury will decide whether criminal charges against the officers involved in his arrest are warranted.

Sitting grand juries are suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The names of the officers who used force during the encounter weren’t released with the videos. The Trentonian was able to identify Manzo as one of the officers who used force during the struggle.

The AG’s office waited months to release the footage of the officers’ interaction with Dolceamore.

The videos, and other police records, are at the heart of an ongoing lawsuit filed by The Trentonian, which sued the city in May to compel release of the records, 911 tape and body-camera footage.

The AG said it released the videos Thursday as part of an independent prosecutor directive that requires requested records to be released once the investigation is “substantially complete.”

Investigators met with Dolceamore’s family Thursday to share the autopsy report, which was completed July 21, and review the videos of the encounter.

Authorities have refused to provide the autopsy report, which would show whether Dolceamore had drugs in his system, despite The Trentonian’s public records request.

The AG’s office did not disclose the cause and manner of Dolceamore’s death, and Dolceamore’s cousin, Gina Rambo, did not immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.

According to the AG’s account, Dolceamore was “behaving erratically” and walking into traffic when officers encountered him around 11:45 a.m. April 3. He was taken to St. Francis Medical Center, where he was pronounced deceased at 12:40 p.m.

Dolceamore ran away from the officers. Bystander video obtained by The Trentonian showed officers cornering Dolceamore in the hospital parking lot and then using force to subdue him.

The bystander videos showed Dolceamore running through the hospital parking lot before an officer cornered him near a fence.

An officer ordered Dolceamore to the ground as he showed his hands, like he was going to give himself up. He then shouted for help and ran around the officer, who gave chase.

The video cut to Dolceamore on all fours, with a cop grabbing the back of his neck and pushing down his head.

Another arrived and maced Dolceamore in the face while he was on his hands and knees screaming for help.

Dolceamore bear-crawled away from the three officers, who quickly swarmed, smothered and wrestled him to the ground, the video showed.

A second video, just over four minutes long, picked up with the officers huddled around Dolceamore, who appeared face-down on the ground, with his hands restrained behind him.

That’s when one of the officers appeared to cocked back and strike Dolceamore, as two other officers pinned him down.

One of the officers crouched over Dolceamore’s legs and a second pressed a knee into Dolceamore’s back.

The same officer who initially struck Dolceamore reared back and hit him a second time, before a fourth officer arrived and positioned himself over Dolceamore’s backside.

One of the videos the AG’s office released picked up with Dolceamore repeatedly screaming “help” as officers restrained his arms behind his back while he was handcuffed and prone on his stomach.

At least four officers held down Dolceamore, some of them using knees, as he appeared to be in crisis.

About three minutes into one of the videos, an officer asked whether Dolceamore had a pulse as he appeared limp on the ground. Dolceamore did not respond to Manzo tapping his head.

“Yeah, he has a pulse. He’s just coming off the sh*t that [inaudible],” Manzo said.

“Is he good, man?” another officer asked. “Does anybody got Narcan?”

“It’s super weak. We need to get him to the hospital,” an officer said.

One of the officers is heard saying that Dolceamore is “turning purple.”

“Come on, man, wake up,” one of the officers says as Dolceamore remained motionless in handcuffs on his stomach.

The officers rolled him over on to his back, while another cop urged dispatchers of a “possible overdose. You gotta step it up.”

The videos showed an officer administering Narcan to the seemingly lifeless man, checking his neck for a pulse and then performing CPR as an ambulance rushed to the parking lot.

Medical professional emerged from the hospital and begin life-saving measures but it was no use.

Dolcemore was later pronounced dead, sparking outrage from his family who saw parallels between his death and what happened to George Floyd in Minneapolis, which triggered widespread protests and rioting.

“Nobody touched it,” Rambo told The Trentonian in an exclusive interview. “It’s like crickets. … He couldn’t say ‘I can’t breathe.’ His face was in dirt. He squirmed, they leaned on him more.”

Dolceamore was not known to suffer from underlying health conditions or mental disorders, Rambo said.

“I cried in hysterics, watching my cousin. My husband had to calm me down. And when George Floyd died, I cried, too,” Rambo said. “If I was there, I would have probably jumped in the face of the police and told them to get off, to let [my cousin] breathe. I would have done more than they did for George Floyd. I would have physically, actually stepped in. The end result occurred because of the police’s actions. That’s the parallel I draw.”

Rich Rivera, a former cop and police accountability expert, reviewed the videos and felt the officers could have done more to deescalate the situation rather than turning to force.

“This is a really a sad video,” he told The Trentonian. “I see the guy, running into the corner like a trapped rat, with no shirt on. It’s evident this man is having a mental breakdown, a crisis, by his body language.”

Without the autopsy findings, Rivera said it’s hard to know what caused the man’s death. But he said officers are trained to understand their “body weight could obstruct an airway or cause chest compression.”