Melbourne police identified the armed man shot and killed by officers during a domestic violence disturbance call on Sunday.

Investigators said 67-year-old Richard Lee Kampstra, a retired Air Force Senior Master Sergeant, had gotten into a confrontation with family members at about 5 p.m. at the Preserve of Longleaf Apartments, 4465 Preserve Drive.

None of the police officers — still unidentified — were injured during the shooting.

More:Officers fatally wound man with rifle who authorities say confronted Melbourne police

More:Cocoa police officer kills man after confrontation; woman stabbed several times

The incident was the third deadly officer-involved shooting to take place in Brevard County this year.

Before Sunday's incident, a caller told Melbourne dispatchers two adult family members were arguing at the apartment complex.

The first Melbourne police officer arrived at the site within minutes. Officers discovered Kampstra had a weapon and barricaded himself in a room at the residence. Other officers arrived moments later and entered the apartment.

Authorities said it was then that Kampstra walked out of the room confronted the arriving officers with a rifle. Melbourne police fired on Kampstra, killing him, investigators said.

Florida Department of Law Enforcement agents were investigating the shooting independently, which is standard practice with a number of Florida’s municipal and county law enforcement agencies.

The police officers were placed on administrative leave, which also is routine in officer-involved shootings. Agents with FDLE will forward their review of the shootings to the State Attorney’s Office, where prosecutors will review each case to determine the outcome.

J.D. Gallop is a Criminal Justice/Breaking News Reporter at FLORIDA TODAY. Contact Gallop at 321-917-4641 or jdgallop@floridatoday.com. Twitter: @JDGallop. To subscribe: https://cm.floridatoday.com/specialoffer/

Our journalists are working hard to report on the coronavirus and its effects on the Space Coast, and bring you the stories free of charge as a service to the community. If these local stories are important to you, support us by becoming a subscriber. Right now you can try a digital subscription for $3 for 3 months. https://cm.floridatoday.com/specialoffer/