A Jefferson County judge has declined a request to set bond for a Birmingham police detective accused of fatally shooting another woman during a “love triangle gone wrong.”

Alfreda Fluker, 39, is charged with capital murder in the April 10 shooting death of Kanisha Nicole Fuller. She is also charged with attempted murder of Mario Theodore White. Both Fluker and White were detectives on the Birmingham Police Department’s Crime Reduction Team.

Fluker’s attorney, Erskine Mathis, earlier this month requested that bond be set for Fluker. The attorney stated that Fluker is a mother of three who has custody of, and supports, all of the children.

Fluker, Mathis wrote, “is not a dangerous person and is not a threat to anyone.” She has pleaded not guilty to the crimes and “believes when a jury hears the evidence in this case, they will find her not guilty’’ the attorney wrote in his motion. “Other than the testimony of Mario White, who is a victim in this case, there is not evidence against this defendant.”

District Judge Alaric May declined the bond request. “Because the defendant is charged with a capital offense, this defendant is not entitled to, nor is this court obligated to, set a bond at this time,” the judge wrote in his order.

The shooting happened about 11:51 p.m. that Friday in Birmingham’s Germania Park. West Precint officers responded to the park after the city’s gunfire detections system, Shot Spotter, alerted them to shots fired. When they arrived on the scene, they learned the 43-year-old Fuller had been shot multiple times, including at least once to the head.

Fuller was found unresponsive in an unmarked Birmingham police vehicle. She was taken to UAB Hospital where she was pronounced dead Saturday morning. That vehicle was assigned to White. Fuller’s white Jeep was found in the middle of a field at Germania Park.

There is no indication White called 911 following the shooting. Additional details about what transpired before and after the deadly shooting have not yet been made available. White is on leave pending ongoing investigations.

Investigators quickly identified the suspected shooter as Fluker, who had been with the department for about 15 years. She had been a detective for the past five years.

Fluker was taken into custody Saturday morning at her west Birmingham home. Both women at one point or another had been in a relationship with White.

Fuller was laid to rest April 25. Fluker remains held without bond in the Jefferson County Jail.