MANCHESTER – A township man was struck and killed by a police car on New York Avenue as the officer was responding to a report of a suspicious person on Saturday night, authorities said.

Keith Atkinson Jr., 23, was struck around 11:15 p.m. while he was walking in the middle of the roadway, Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office spokesman Al Della Fave said.

The police officer, whose identity was not released, was dispatched to the 1400 block of New York Avenue for a report of man who tried to enter a residence by forcing his way through the door, Della Fave said. The homeowner confronted the man, who appeared to be intoxicated and confused, and he fled on foot.

A preliminary investigation later determined Atkinson matched the description of the man who tried to get in the residence, Della Fave said. Because Atkinson was intoxicated, he was confused at where he was and thought he was trying to get into a friend's home, Della Fave said interviews with witnesses revealed.

Just before arriving at the home the patrol officer, who was driving westbound on 1600 block of New York Avenue, fatally struck Atkinson, Della Fave said. The police officer swerved left in an attempted to avoid hitting Atkinson, but struck him with the passenger side of the patrol car, he said.

The police officer was not using lights and sirens because he wanted to get to the call without detection of the person who was attempting to get into the residence, Della Fave said. The police car’s headlights were on, he said.

The speed of the police car remains under investigation.

Atkinson was wearing black pants and a dark colored shirt while walking in the middle of the poorly lit roadway, Della Fave said. The nearest streetlight was more than 200-feet away.

The preliminary investigation revealed Atkinson was with his girlfriend before the crash and had consumed a "significant" amount of alcohol, Della Fave said.



Manchester police are cooperating with the investigation and the police officer volunteered to give blood samples for testing, Della Fave said. The initial investigation showed no wrongdoing on the part of the officer, but the investigation was ongoing, he said.



Prosecutor's office Detective David Margentino is the lead investigator on the crash and the Ocean County Sheriff's Department Crime Scene Investigation Unit and Toms River police assisted.

Ashley Peskoe may be reached at apeskoe@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @ashleypeskoe. Find NJ.com on Facebook.