A 27-year-old Rosemont man was charged with four felonies Tuesday--including murder--for his role in a gun battle with an off-duty Chicago police officer that left a homeless bystander dead last Friday.

Alberto Martinez, 27, of the 10500 block of Barry Avenue in northwest suburban Rosemont, was charged with the murder of 41-year-old Eric Jones, said Cook County state's attorney's spokeswoman Marcie Jensen.

Advertisement

He was also charged with attempted murder of a police officer, aggravated discharge of a firearm, and attempted aggravated vehicular hijacking, Jensen said.

Jones was struck in the head by a stray bullet during last week's shootout between Martinez and an off-duty Chicago police officer outside a River North nightclub.

Advertisement

Police said the gun battle, in which up to 20 shots were fired, began when Martinez allegedly tried to carjack the officer's Range Rover while it was parked in front of the Voyeur nightclub, 151 W. Ohio St.

Martinez remains hospitalized in Northwestern Memorial Hospital with a gunshot wound to the chest suffered during the shootout. A Cook County Circuit judge will set bond in his case Wednesday at noon, Jensen said.

Ballistics results from the Illinois state crime lab showed the bullet that struck Jones in the top of his head while he crouched for cover behind a car was fired by the off-duty 36-year-old transit detail police officer, police said. Martinez was charged with the murder because the attempted carjacking touched off the gun battle, police said.

An investigation into the shooting and the officer's conduct is ongoing, according to a Chicago Police Department spokesman. Meanwhile, the officer remains on active duty.

A source confirmed that the results of a test taken on the police officer showed his blood-alcohol level was .05 after the shooting. Police Department regulations prohibit officers from carrying guns when drinking, a department spokeswoman said.

A second man hospitalized in Northwestern Memorial Hospital and earlier considered a carjacking suspect will not be charged, Jensen said.