Luz Moreno-Lozano, lmoreno-lozano@statesman.com

SAN MARCOS — In only the second line-of-duty death for San Marcos police, an officer was killed and two other officers were injured Saturday night when they were ambushed by a shooter who then killed himself, city officials said.

Authorities on Sunday identified the slain officer as 31-year-old Justin Putnam and the wounded officers as Franco Stewart and Justin Mueller.

Putnam, a graduate of Texas State University, had been with the department for a little over five years and is survived by a fiancée.

Stewart and Mueller have been with the department less than a year: Stewart for five months and Mueller for 10 months. Before coming to San Marcos, Stewart worked for about 2½ years for the McAllen Police Department.

The shooter has been identified as 46-year-old Alfredo Perez Delacruz of San Marcos, but police are not sure that is his true identity. He might have had several aliases, interim San Marcos Police Chief Bob Klett said.

San Marcos police are working with the Texas Rangers, the investigative arm of the Texas Department of Public Safety, to properly identify Delacruz.

The officers responded at 6:05 p.m. to an assault/domestic disturbance at the Twin Lake Villas Apartments at 2917 Hunter Road. There was a report that Delacruz had hit his wife, Klett said. Police believe alcohol was involved.

The chief said Delacruz then ambushed officers by firing a rifle as they entered his apartment. The officers were wearing standard-issue police body armor, but the shooter wore body protection as well, Klett said.

Police said the man died after apparently shooting himself.

The two surviving officers were taken to Ascension Seton Hays in Kyle, where they underwent surgery, city officials said. Both were in critical but stable condition Sunday.

“We lost a fine young man, faithful officer and friend last night. He graduated from Texas State University, so he understood what it took to police a diverse community like San Marcos, and he served it very well,” Klett said, choking up as he spoke to reporters Sunday.

Joe Sorenson, who has lived in the complex for three years, said he heard the gunshots from his apartment and that is when police ordered residents to stay inside their homes. He said he didn’t see much but said Saturday’s shooting was abnormal.

“This is a quiet, family place, and there isn’t much disturbance around here,” he said.

The corner apartment where the shooting took place had boarded-up windows and a littered front porch.

The complex appeared undisturbed Sunday afternoon. A few stirrings among residents getting some fresh air were all that could be seen. Children’s toys scattered throughout the yards of residences in the complex indicated a family neighborhood. The area is normally quiet and people are friendly, neighbors said.

Putnam, a member of the 2006 Westwood High School football team in Northwest Austin, was a first-team all-state kicker. He was the American-Statesman’s All-Central Texas kicker and played in the Texas High School Coaches Association All-Star Game.

His former football coach Anthony Wood said he was an amazing kid, a great teammate and a hard worker.

Wood recalled a football game against Pflugerville in 2006 where the team was down late and tied the score to push the game into overtime. Putnam kicked a 44-yard field goal to advance the team to the playoffs.

“He was a good-looking kid, a super athlete with a great personality and work ethic,” Wood said. “He was just a great all-around person.”

Wood also remembered Putnam as a leader. As a high school senior he began mentoring then-freshman kicker Jordan Williamson, who went on to become the leading scorer in Stanford University football history.

Williamson told the American-Statesman that when he was the only freshman on the football team, Putnam took him under his wing.

“He really was like my brother,” Williamson said. “He’s the one who would take me to team dinners. He was a really good dude, and I learned a lot from him. He was the first person who got me to love kicking."

The first death in the line of duty for a member of the San Marcos Police Department occurred Dec. 4, 2017. Officer Ken Copeland, a 58-year-old husband and father of four, was working on his day off when he was fatally shot while serving a warrant on Stewart Mettz, who himself was wounded in the encounter and taken into custody after a standoff with authorities.

“We are heartbroken to make this announcement,” Klett said of Saturday’s shooting. “We ask for your support for our fellow officers and their families as we try to cope with yet another tragic event in our San Marcos police family.”

Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said via Twitter late Saturday that he was “heartbroken over the murder of a San Marcos Police Officer earlier this evening.”

“Prayers to the entire San Marcos community and SMPD!” Manley wrote.

News of the police shooting also drew condolences from Texas Gov. Greg Abbott.

"Tonight's shooting in San Marcos is a somber reminder of the service and sacrifice our brave men and women in law enforcement make every day to keep us safe,“ Abbott said in a statement Saturday night. ”I am grateful for the swift action of the San Marcos Police Department in containing the threat and minimizing the loss of life.“

Abbott added: “I ask all Texans to join Cecilia and me in praying for the officer killed and for those injured, and for the continued safety of all law enforcement officers who protect our communities."

Putnam’s patrol vehicle will be parked at San Marcos City Hall, 630 E. Hopkins St., near the police and firefighter statues. The public can leave memorials for his family and the Police Department around the vehicle.

Ways to help the family will be posted on the San Marcos police website and social media pages.

Statesman staff writer Rick Cantu and editor Andy Sevilla contributed to this report.