Steven Goddard Sr., whose son died in a motorcycle crash in Nov. 2018, holds a photo of his son and his son's girlfriend, who also died in the crash. (Noah Goldberg/New York Daily News)

The video released by the NYPD to the media was brief and did not show much detail. Shot from a distance in black and white as a mix of rain and snow comes down, the footage shows a motorcycle speeding the wrong way down a one-way street before crashing head-on into an oncoming van.

Killed in the horrifying collision in the early morning hours of Nov. 10, 2018 in Sunnyside, Queens, were the motorcycle driver, Steven Goddard, 22, and his girlfriend Amy Gutierrez, 20, who was sitting behind him. Both were thrown from Goddard’s Suzuki motorcycle and died in a nearby hospital.

Advertisement

News reports that day chalked it up to a tragic, senseless accident. But Goddard’s family now claims that cops failed to mention an important fact behind the crash — and even excluded it on the police report.

In other videos of the crash obtained by the Goddard family from security cameras in the neighborhood and shown to the Daily News, a car with flashing lights like a police vehicle would use is chasing the motorcycle through the sleet-slicked streets up until the moment it rams into the van.

Advertisement

The family claims the vehicle is an unmarked cop car and is suing the city over Goddard’s death, saying the NYPD had no reason to be chasing him — and allegedly covered up the pursuit that led to the fatal crash.

The motorcycle 22-year-old Steven Goddard and his girlfriend Amy Gutierrez, 20, rode the night they died. (Theodore Parisienne / for New Yo/HANDOUT)

“I was really confused on what happened. I had no answers. Nobody did. I couldn’t understand it. Something was bugging me,” Steven Goddard Sr., the victim’s father, told the Daily News. “I still don’t understand why they didn’t come to us and say he was involved in a police chase. Possibly, they are trying to hide something. I have no idea why they wouldn’t tell us.”

In the dark days after his son’s death, a mournful Goddard dutifully attended his son’s wake and funeral. But he also began searching for answers in the murky footage released by cops.

He repeatedly watched the video of the collision, trying to understand why his son, whom he had taught to ride as a boy, would be recklessly speeding the wrong way down a tight, one-way street at 3:30 a.m. in the wet snow. And with his girlfriend on the back.

Amy Gutierrez and Steven Goddard in an undated photo. (Obtained by New York Daily News)

Then he spotted something. At the end of the video, a streak of light appears on a building as if from headlights, he said. Goddard thought it must mean there was another vehicle at the scene of the crash besides the motorcycle and the van.

Goddard then spent nearly two weeks combing the streets near the crash site, which occurred on 43rd Ave. near 38th St., asking shop owners for their security cam footage of that night in his quest to piece together what really happened.

Steven Goddard Sr. grieves at a candlelight vigil for his son Steven and his girlfriend Amy Gutierrez, who were killed in a motorcycle accident on Nov. 10, 2018. (Kendall Rodriguez/for New York Daily News)

What Goddard found shocked him. Video footage he secured from at least five different locations showed a brief chase lasting about a minute that led to the fatal crash, he said.

In footage reviewed by The News, a black car begins following Goddard and Gutierrez as they ride down 43rd St. near 43rd Ave., mere blocks from Goddard’s home. The car then turns on flashing blue and red lights and the high-speed chase begins.

Advertisement

The car follows the motorcycle onto Skillman Ave. and then onto 41st St — going the wrong way down the one-way street.

Finally, Goddard turns onto 43rd Ave. — with the car in close pursuit — and rides a few more blocks before crashing into the van. The car, a short distance behind him, appears to slow to a stop at the crash scene, the video shows.

“Our footage showed a car following the motorcycle,” said one woman who works at a store on 43rd Ave., who declined to give her name. “I gave all this information to police. All the footage. They took everything. I don’t have it anymore,” she said, when asked by the Daily News to view the video.

The woman could not be sure if the car was a police vehicle, because the footage was grainy and taken in the dark.

Various videos show man, girlfriend on motorcycle chased by police. (New York Daily News Exclusive)

The police report does not mention a chase.

“Operator of [vehicle 1] was traveling wrong way west bound on 43 Avenue in east bound land at high rate of speed and struck [vehicle 2],” reads the report, which was signed by an officer and a sergeant.

Advertisement

Breaking News As it happens Get updates on the coronavirus pandemic and other news as it happens with our free breaking news email alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

The lawsuit filed in Brooklyn Federal Court in February by Goddard’s family claims that police followed the young motorcyclist even though he and his girlfriend did not commit any crime. The chase began just a few blocks from Goddard’s home.

“Without a reason to believe that [Goddard] or his girlfriend had committed an offense, much less a serious offense, defendants unidentified police officers began pursuing [Goddard] and his passenger at a high rate of speed for no legitimate law enforcement purpose,” the suit says.

“I’ve always felt that if people didn’t disclose things there was something they didn’t want known." said lawyer Fred Lichtmacher, who is representing the family in the lawsuit. “The police are there to make our lives safer, not more dangerous.”

An NYPD spokeswoman said the department would not comment on pending litigation, and declined to respond to questions about whether an unmarked police car was involved in the incident.

"This loss must be tragic for these families. Until all the facts are in and we investigate the claims, we will not know whether the case has merit,” said a spokesman for the city Law Department.

The Goddard family is suing the city for $6 million in damages.

Advertisement

“I’m devastated. I lost somebody who was my friend, my son, everything,” Goddard said. “It’s hard for me to talk about. I get a little emotional. I don’t think there’s anything worse than losing a kid.”