The Englewood neighborhood returned to normal Sunday, one day after the fatal police shooting of a man sparked unrest among residents.

Police said they killed Shurron Grant, 23, in the 5900 block of South Peoria Street after he fired a semiautomatic Norinco SKS assault rifle at them at 12:45 a.m. Saturday.

Advertisement

Extra police, including dog-handling officers with German shepherds, were called to maintain order as residents pelted police with rocks and bottles. Tensions between residents and police remained high Saturday, as marked squad cars patrolled Englewood in groups of three throughout the day.

By Sunday morning, patrols were back to regular levels, authorities said.

Advertisement

"It'll probably take a few days to calm down, but we are going to continue to respond to calls," said Chicago police spokesman David Bayless.

Sunday morning, a small group of protesters, including Grant's mother, gathered for a short rally and march near where he died.

"He could have been saved," said Suharia Grant. "It was an unjustifiable death."

Led by pardoned Death Row inmate Aaron Patterson and Fred Hampton Jr., son of the slain Black Panther figure, participants stopped at houses and churches to seek support, eventually ending at the Englewood District police station at 6120 S. Racine Ave.

There, Hampton and Ephriam Ben Ephriam, a New Black Panther Party leader, were arrested and charged with disorderly conduct after they refused to leave as asked, police said.

The men, who had gone to seek information about the whereabouts of people arrested Saturday in Englewood, were released later in the day after posting bail.

Englewood District Cmdr. Frank Trigg explained the protesters' concerns.

"The community is hurting. They're calling out," he said. "They need someone to listen."

Advertisement

A department probe of the shooting is under way, Trigg said. "We want to make sure it's a complete and fair investigation," he said.

Grant, who lived in the 5900 block of South Sangamon Street, was on parole for a 2001 incident involving an off-duty police officer. According to a spokesman for the Cook County state's attorney's office, Grant strung a rope across Halsted Street that clotheslined the officer as he rode by on his motorcycle. He crashed his vehicle and was cut on the throat.

Grant was originally charged with attempted murder but pleaded guilty to aggravated battery in a deal with prosecutors, records show. His criminal record also included a felony conviction in 2000 for possession of a controlled substance within 1,000 feet of a school; a misdemeanor conviction this year for drinking in public; and a 1998 misdemeanor weapons charge that led police to confiscate a gun from Grant.