A Crawford County deputy will return to work after being cleared of any wrongdoing in a fatal officer-involved shooting eight days ago, authorities said.

Macon Judicial Circuit District Attorney David Cooke announced Tuesday that Lt. William Owenby was justified in the April 27 shooting death of a man who threatened his family, led police on a high-speed chase and then fired at officers.

RELATED: Middle Georgia man dies after 100-mph chase, shootout with deputies, GBI says

Deputies responded to a domestic dispute at a home on Richardson Mill Road in unincorporated Fort Valley shortly after 6:15 p.m., the GBI said in a news release. Jamie Lamar Darley, 33, was accused of pulling out a gun and threatening other people inside the home.

Darley’s family told police he drank half a bottle of liquor and tried to kick in the front door while holding a gun, according to the DA’s office. Witnesses said Darley threatened to cut a family member’s throat and kill everyone inside before firing one or two shots into the air and leaving in a white Chevrolet pickup.

Police searched the area, and Owenby spotted Darley’s truck driving in the wrong lane toward his patrol vehicle on Taylors Mill Road, authorities said.

Darley drove into a ditch to get around the deputy’s car, prompting a chase that reached speeds of up to 120 mph.

During the pursuit, Darley attempted to block the deputies’ path and run them off the road, authorities said. He eventually returned to the home on Richardson Mill Road, parking in front of a shed near the house and running toward his family with a revolver in his hand.

According to the GBI, he fired one shot toward deputies, striking another pickup truck that was parked nearby.

"Concerned for the family's safety and knowing of Darley's prior threats to harm them, Owenby fired his service weapon at Darley, wounding him," Cooke said Tuesday in a news release.

Owenby and another deputy administered aid to Darley at the scene, but he died at the hospital.

The 33-year-old’s father and brother told the GBI they saw Darley exit the truck, aim his gun at deputies and fire a single shot.

“Based on my review of the evidence gathered thus far, it is clear that Lt. William Owenby was justified in his actions,” said Cooke, who called the incident tragic but said it was fortunate no one else was injured.

“There will be a complete and thorough investigation, but in a case where the facts are clear, there’s no reason to delay getting this deputy back to work during a time when law enforcement agencies are facing a shortage of officers.”

﻿In other news: