Indiana State Police are investigating a deadly officer-involved shooting in Jeffersonville. It happened shortly after 1 a.m. Wednesday at Middle Road and Loma Vista Court.Preliminary investigation revealed a trooper pulled over a vehicle driven by a woman with male passenger, Malcolm Xavier Ray Williams, 27, of Clarksville, for no taillights.Shortly after making the traffic stop, the trooper requested an ambulance relaying that the female driver was possibly having a medical issue, according to police. Officials said a short time later, investigators believe Williams brandished a handgun and fired at the trooper. The trooper returned fire and struck Williams.Williams was taken to UofL where he was pronounced dead.The female driver was not injured. Officials said the trooper was not injured but the trooper did receive a powder burn and abrasions from the apparent proximity of the suspect’s gun. The officer's name was not immediately released.The investigation is ongoing.

Indiana State Police are investigating a deadly officer-involved shooting in Jeffersonville.

It happened shortly after 1 a.m. Wednesday at Middle Road and Loma Vista Court.

Advertisement

Preliminary investigation revealed a trooper pulled over a vehicle driven by a woman with male passenger, Malcolm Xavier Ray Williams, 27, of Clarksville, for no taillights.

Shortly after making the traffic stop, the trooper requested an ambulance relaying that the female driver was possibly having a medical issue, according to police.

Officials said a short time later, investigators believe Williams brandished a handgun and fired at the trooper. The trooper returned fire and struck Williams.

Williams was taken to UofL where he was pronounced dead.

The female driver was not injured. Officials said the trooper was not injured but the trooper did receive a powder burn and abrasions from the apparent proximity of the suspect’s gun.

The officer's name was not immediately released.

The investigation is ongoing.