SAN JOSE (CBS SF) -- A knife attack that left one man dead early Sunday led to the fatal officer-involved shooting of the suspect in a violent confrontation near a homeless encampment in San Jose, authorities said.

Officers responded to calls of a person being stabbed in the area of N. Autumn Street and Julian Street in San Jose, north of SAP Center, shortly after 8 a.m. Sunday.

Officers investigate a fatal shooting at N. Autumn Street and Julian Street in San Jose on Sunday. (CBS)

Officers arrived at the intersection, which is near a homeless encampment along the Guadalupe River Trail, and found a man suffering multiple stab wounds. A man holding a knife nearby refused to comply when officers commanded him to drop the knife. At that point, one officer used a "less than lethal" weapon on the suspect "without effect," according to a statement released by the police department Sunday afternoon.

The stabbing suspect then turned and advanced toward officers who opened fire, killing him. The victim of the stabbing attack also died of his wounds at the scene.

No officers were injured and they will be placed on routine paid administrative leave while the incident is investigated.

The officers' body worn cameras were activated during the incident.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office and the San Jose Police Department's Homicide Unit are conducting a joint criminal investigation. The San Jose Police Department's Internal Affairs Unit, the San Jose City Attorney's Office and the Office of the Independent Police Auditor also are monitoring the case.

Anyone with information about the stabbing and events that followed is asked to contact Detective Sgt. John Cary or Detective Elizabeth Ramirez at (408) 277-5283. Tipsters wishing to remain anonymous may

call the Crime Stoppers tip line at (408) 947-7867.

It was the second officer-involved shooting over the past 72 hours in San Jose.

On Friday evening, officers contacted a male suspect in the area of N. King Road and Duffy Way in San Jose. The suspect attempted to flee on foot and a chase ensued.

According to police, the suspect drew a firearm and one of the pursuing officers fired at least one shot. Neither of the officers or the suspect was injured. The suspect was taken into custody.

An investigation into the shooting was ongoing. The officer who discharged his weapon was placed on routine paid administrative leave.

The San Jose Police Department's Homicide Unit is conducting the criminal investigation. The case is also being monitored by the San Jose Police Department's Internal Affairs Unit, the City Attorney's Office, and the Office of the Independent Police Auditor.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Detective Sergeant Anthony Kilmer and Detective Ted Reckas of the San Jose Police Department's Homicide Unit at 408-277-5283.

© Copyright 2020 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Bay City News contributed to this report