A five-hour long standoff with a distraught young man standing on the CTA train tracks brandishing a knife ended with police using a Taser on the man, who was then taken into custody at a hospital on Saturday night.

The man, 27, later died at the hospital of self-inflicted stab wounds, according to Chicago police.

Advertisement

The emergency, which began shortly after 3 p.m., and ended just after 8 p.m., caused "major'' delays to Red Line service and snarled traffic on the Dan Ryan Expressway as first responders worked to resolve the issue.

Officers used the Taser on the man shortly after 8 p.m., and he was taken to the University of Chicago Medical Center, where he was in custody, according to police.

Advertisement

The man was pronounced dead at 9:49 p.m., police said. An autopsy will determine his official cause and manner of death.

The ordeal began about 3 p.m. near 79th Street on the tracks, when the Chicago police special weapons and tactics officers were dispatched for the male armed with a knife.

Earlier, as of about 7:30 p.m., police had still been trying to negotiate with the man.

"The SWAT team is doing what they have to do,’’ said Officer Michelle Tannehill, a police spokeswoman earlier.

The man, in his 20s or 30s, was standing on the tracks, a “couple feet,’’ from the platform, Tannehill said.

"Hopefully it ends peacefully and no one gets hurt,'' Spicuzza said.

The incident caused the CTA to halt service in that area and Illinois State Police to shut down traffic, as troopers helped with the investigation.

As of 9:40 p.m. all southbound and northbound lanes were re-opened and troopers have left the scene, ISP said in a statement.

Advertisement

In an earlier statement, ISP said: “All northbound and southbound lanes of the Ryan at 79th Street were closed while we assist the Chicago Police Department with the ongoing incident with the ‘pedestrian.’''

Red Line service was temporarily suspended between the 95th and Garfield stations and trains were only operating between Howard and Garfield, the CTA said in an earlier alert.

Customers were urged to either take one of the shuttle buses, which were made available, or the Green Line. Nearby bus routes were also available, such as the #29, the CTA said.

Check back for details.

rsobol@chicagotribune.com

pfry@chicagotribune.com