People gather outside a home in the 18000 block of Cable Lane in Perris where a man is barricaded inside the garage after a standoff with the California Highway Patrol on Saturday, May 2, 2020. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Emergency personnel gather outside a home in the 18000 block of Cable Lane in Perris where a man is barricaded inside the garage after a standoff with the California Highway Patrol on Saturday, May 2, 2020. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Multiple law enforcement agencies gather outside a home in the 18000 block of Cable Lane in Perris where a suspect is barricaded inside the garage after a standoff with the California Highway Patrol on Saturday, May 2, 2020. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Emergency personnel gather outside a home in the 18000 block of Cable Lane in Perris where a man is barricaded inside the garage after a standoff with the California Highway Patrol on Saturday, May 2, 2020. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Multiple law enforcement agencies gather outside a home in the 18000 block of Cable Lane in Perris where a suspect is barricaded inside the garage after a standoff with the California Highway Patrol on Saturday, May 2, 2020. (Photo by Watchara Phomicinda, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A man barricaded in a Perris residence on Saturday afternoon, May 2, was later found dead from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department said.

A Sheriff’s Department statement said the incident began at about 1:44 p.m. when deputies from the Perris Station were sent to the area of Alexander and Markham streets in Perris to assist the California Highway Patrol with a hit-and-run traffic collision with injuries.

While deputies were responding, the crew of a sheriff’s helicopter, Star9, spotted a fleeing suspect running through a field near the collision.

The helicopter followed the suspect to the 18000 block of Cable Lane, where officials said he forced his way into a residence.

“As deputies responded to the residence and began approaching, the suspect fired a weapon toward the deputies. No deputies were hit nor injured,” the statement said.

Officers did not fire back, said Sgt. Deanna Pecoraro, a Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman.

SWAT was called to the scene and after multiple attempts to get the suspect to surrender, SWAT members entered the residence and found the suspect “deceased from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound,” the statement said, adding a weapon was recovered.

The Cal Fire/Riverside County Fire Department had responded about 1:45 p.m. to the collision at Alexander and Markham, where the medics were told by law enforcement to wait for the all-clear because of an issue with one of the drivers, Cal Fire spokeswoman Tawny Cabral said. The medics eventually were able to treat the victims.

Information on the identity of the suspect and why he allegedly fled, fired at deputies and barricaded himself was not available as of Sunday afternoon.

Anyone with additional information about the incident can contact sheriff’s Perris Station investigators at (951) 210-1000.