An officer-involved shooting resulted in the death of a suspect in a shooting incident Sunday.

According to a release from Sterling Police Department, an SPD officer attempted to pull over a vehicle near Highway 6 and Atwood at 5:45 p.m. Sunday evening after recognizing the driver as the suspect in a shooting that occurred Thursday in Sterling. Sterling Police Chief Tyson Kerr said the officer was en route to work when he spotted the suspect, who was identified Monday afternoon as Tyler Wayne Kracht, 28, of Fort Collins. Kracht formerly lived in Sterling and has ties to the community.

In the shooting incident Thursday, a male shot a handgun into the side of an occupied vehicle; none of the three people inside were injured. Kerr explained that the information about that incident had not yet been released to the public because the department was still gathering information through the investigation when Sunday’s incident occurred.

“Additionally, while any situation that involves a shooting is of course concerning, there was not an overt public safety threat as it was not a random incident,” Kerr said.

The SPD said the suspect also had a failure to appear warrant out of Loveland on weapons and drug charges, and was wanted by the Pueblo County Sheriff’s Office in a domestic violence related case.

When the officer attempted to make the stop, according to the SPD, the suspect “fled at a high rate of speed,” heading west on Highway 6 to Merino. The SPD pursued the suspect’s vehicle as it traveled from Merino south to Interstate 76, west on I-76 in the wrong lane, then back north to Highway 6 near Hillrose. The chase ended in a crash at 6:08 p.m. on Highway 6 just west of Hillrose when officers with the SPD and Logan County Sheriff’s Office conducted a high risk stop.

“During the stop, shots were fired by a Sterling police officer and the male died on scene,” the SPD release states.

According to the SPD, no officers were injured and the driver was the only one in the suspect’s vehicle.

All officers involved will be on administrative leave during the investigation, as is protocol in officer-involved shootings, the SPD release states. According to Kerr, the three SPD officers on scene at the time of the incident were heading into a scheduled week off as a result to scheduling changes due to the pandemic. The officer who filed his weapon will remain on administrative leave, while the other two officers are expected to return to work on their next scheduled days. Kerr said the officer would be identified later this week.

The investigation is being conducted by the Morgan County Critical Incident Response Team, which consists of members of the Brush Police Department, Fort Morgan Police Department and Morgan County Sheriff’s Office, with assistance from the Colorado State Patrol, Morgan County Coroner’s Office, 13th Judicial District Attorney’s Office and the Logan County Sheriff’s Office.

According to Kerr, the last time the department dealt with an officer-involved shooting was in 1996.

This story will be updated as more information becomes available.