One of two people killed in a Monday traffic crash in Melbourne was identified as a 32-year-old off-duty Brevard County corrections deputy.

The deadly collision took place about 7:15 p.m. Monday in the 4600 block of Eau Gallie Boulevard after a passenger van crossed the path of a motorcycle, investigators reported.

Tuesday, Brevard County Sheriff's Office deputies were wearing black mourning bands to mark the death of Stephen Goodson. The agency also was working with Goodson's family to make final arrangements, the Sheriff's Office reported.

Goodson served in the U.S. Army and joined the agency in 2016. He served as a patrol deputy and maritime officer before being assigned to the jail's transportation unit.

"Stephen was a very kind soul who will be deeply missed by all who knew him," Brevard County Sheriff Wayne Ivey stated in a social media post.

More:Two people killed in Eau Gallie crash involving motorcycle, van

Also killed in the crash was Josephina Ibanez Carrillo, 59, of Melbourne. Carillo was a passenger in the van. A child, also a passenger in the van, was transported to Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children in Orlando for further treatment.

Melbourne police said Goodson, riding a motorcycle, pulled into the eastbound lane of Eau Gallie Boulevard when the van with several occupants pulled in front of his path. No charges have been filed in the case.

Goodson's death comes as the agency marks National Corrections Officer Week, a time set aside in May to pay tribute to the work of law enforcement staff who work in jails, prisons and holding facilities.

More:Barefoot Bay pedestrian, 70, killed while crossing U.S. 1 at night

"We ask that you keep Stephen’s family, friends, our agency members, and the families of everyone involved in this unfortunate incident in your thoughts and prayers during this very difficult time," Ivey stated.

An investigation into the crash continues.

J.D. Gallop is a Criminal Justice/Breaking News Reporter at FLORIDA TODAY. Contact Gallop at 321-917-4641 or jdgallop@floridatoday.com. Twitter: @JDGallop. To subscribe.