WEBSTER GROVES — Days after a man died in a highway shootout with police, investigators still don’t know what led him to step from a disabled car and open fire, authorities said.

The gunman, Qavon Webb, was shot multiple times and died at the scene while a Webster Groves policeman was injured in the exchange of gunfire Tuesday night along Interstate 44.

Webb, 23, had run-ins with police in recent years in his hometown of Bel-Ridge, with three pending cases for municipal violations including marijuana possession and resisting arrest. But his motive for Tuesday night’s attack is still elusive, said Sgt. Benjamin Granda of the St. Louis County Police Department.

County detectives, asked by Webster Groves police to handle the probe, are continuing to investigate and want to know why Webb opened fire. “Unfortunately,” Granda said, “only one individual may have been able to provide the answer to that.”

The Webster Groves officer has been released from the hospital. Granda didn’t know how many times the officer was hit, but his bullet-resistant vest stopped at least one round.

The unidentified officer had approached Webb’s vehicle after a report of a stranded motorist along I-44 near the Elm Avenue exit about 8:20 p.m. Tuesday. The call for aid came from “an uninvolved passerby” and not Webb himself, Granda said.

The car, a Nissan Sentra belonging to a woman Webb knew, was disabled. “Detectives believe there was a mechanical failure/issue with the vehicle,” Granda said in an email. Webb was the only one in the car.

The Sentra was stopped in the left lane, near the center median. As the officer got out of his patrol car, Webb stepped out of the Nissan and began firing at the officer, police said. Granda said Webster Groves police use body and dashboard cameras, and both videos were reviewed by investiga- tors.

“Investigators do not believe there was any dialogue between the officer and Mr. Webb,” Granda added.

The wounded officer is 36 years old and has seven years of law enforcement experience. He used a tourniquet from his patrol car’s first-aid kit to stem some of the bleeding, and another officer rushed him to the hospital. The officer now is recovering at home, authorities said.

Relatives of Webb, of the 4200 block of Springdale Avenue in Bel-Ridge, could not be reached for comment. Granda said police will be meeting with them soon. He said Webb was shot several times in the upper body. Police recovered a handgun, he said.

Online court records in Missouri show no criminal convictions for Webb. There are, however, three cases pending in Bel-Ridge: resisting arrest and marijuana possession in April 2018, and a peace disturbance from 2017. All three were being handled by the Bel-Ridge Municipal Court and unresolved as of the day of the shooting.