This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

A man who was shot and killed by authorities on the 710 Freeway in Long Beach allegedly had a knife and lunged at California Highway Patrol officers Friday morning. The incident prompted officials to close the 710 Freeway in both directions for several hours.

The events began just after 11:30 p.m. Thursday when Long Beach Police Department officers saw a man with a knife walking near the Santa Fe Avenue onramp, California Highway Patrol Sgt. Robert Ruiz said.

CHP officers were called to the area and encountered the same man walking on the 405 Freeway just after midnight and tried to get him to drop the knife.

Less lethal munitions were used but the man fled the area instead of surrendering to officers, Ruiz said.

About 5 minutes later, the man was located again on the 710 Freeway just south of the 405 Freeway.

Officers again tried to get the man to comply with orders and drop the knife, which was described as a large kitchen knife.

“I believe there was a Taser deployment,” Ruiz said.

A standoff ensued for about 30 minutes with the man continuing to act erratic, Ruiz said.

That’s when Ruiz says the man “lunged at officers with that knife in hand and an officer-involved shooting occurred.”

The unidentified man was taken to a local hospital, but died from his injuries, Ruiz said.

An investigation into the shooting is underway.

Ruiz said two officers fired at the man during the incident.

A SigAlert was issued for the northbound lanes of the 710 Freeway and included the transition road from the 405 to the southbound 710, according to a tweet posted by the CHP.

Northbound traffic was being diverted off at Willow Street, the CHP stated. Southbound drivers were being taken off the freeway at Del Amo Boulevard.

The lanes remained closed for most of the morning. The CHP tweeted the lanes were clear just after 10:15 a.m.