FRIDAY 7/17/2020 2:31 p.m.

GREEN BAY, Wis. (WFRV) – No criminal charges will be filed against the Green Bay officers involved in the officer-involved death of 42-year-old Elder Melgar on May 9.

According to the Department of Justice (DOJ), after further investigation into the incident, there was no evidence found to suggest criminal conduct on behalf of and Green Bay police officers resulting in no bases for issuing criminal charges against said officers.

Officials say the incident happened in early May when Green Bay Police responded to Royal Oak Apartments on University Avenue after a woman tenant reported her ex-boyfriend had broken into her apartment and had gotten in a violent confrontation with her friend and the victim, Elder Melgar.

Upon arrival, officers said they saw Melgar chasing the ex-boyfriend our of the building while holding a handgun.

Officers reported Melgar had allegedly fired the fun at the ex-boyfriend twice during the chase.

In response to Melgar shooting at the individual, the two responding Green Bay police officers at the scene Officer Roman Trimberger and Officer Nicholas Walvort are reported to have discharged their weapons at Melgar.

Autopsy results showed that Melgar died due to gunshot wounds sustained during the incident.

After further investigation, DOJ says the evidence located by the DCI investigators including audio recordings of witness interviews, written reports, and surveillance footage are said to have all remained consistent with the information provided by the officers.

Original Story: Individuals from Green Bay officer-involved shooting identified

WEDNESDAY 5/13/2020 2:35 p.m.

GREEN BAY, Wis. (WFRV) – Officials have released the names of those involved in an officer-involved shooting in Green Bay that happened over the weekend.

According to the Wisconsin Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation, officer from the Green Bay Police Department responded to the 2800 block of University Avenue for a report of shots fired Saturday morning.

Upon arrival, officers say they observed 42-year-old Elder Melgar discharge a firearm toward another person. During the incident, DOJ says Officer Roman Trimberger, a 5 year veteran, and Officer Nicholas Walvort, who has 7 years of law enforcement experience, discharged their weapons toward Melgar, who succumbed to injuries at the scene.

Another man, 34-year-old Manuel Hernandez, was arrested after the incident and is being held in the Brown County Jail with criminal charges pending from the District Attorney’s Office.

No other law enforcement personnel or other individuals were injured during the incident. The Green Bay Police officers involved have been placed on administrative leave, per department policy.

DCI is investigating the incident with the assistance of the Wisconsin State Crime Lab, Wisconsin State Patrol, and DOJ Office of Crime Victim Services. All involved law enforcement are fully cooperating with DCI during this investigation.

DCI is continuing to review the evidence and determine the facts of this incident and will turn over investigative reports to the Brown County District Attorney when the investigation concludes.

No additional details are currently available.

Original Story: One dead following officer-involved shooting in Green Bay

SATURDAY 5/9/2020 8:55 a.m.

GREEN BAY, Wis. (WFRV) – The Wisconsin Department of Justice (DOJ) is investigating an officer-involved shooting in Green Bay on May 9.

The Green Bay Police Department responded to an incident on Saturday morning, after reports of shots being fired on the 2800 block of University Avenue.

Police say as they arrived and saw a suspect shooting at another individual. Officers shot the suspect with the weapon who then later died from their injuries at the scene.

No law enforcement personnel or other individuals were reported injured.

The DOJ says the officers involved with the incident have been placed on administrative leave, per Green Bay Police department policy.

The Division of Criminal Investigation, the DCI is leading this investigation with assistance from the Wisconsin State Crime Lab, Wisconsin State Patrol, and DOJ Office of Crime Victim Services.

Local 5 will update this story as it develops.