A 25-year-old man is dead after a Greenville police officer exchanged gunfire with him at a law office early Saturday, according to a statement from the Greenville Police Department.

Officers responded to Cleveirvine Avenue and Boyce Springs Avenue, around 12:48 a.m. Saturday for reported gunshots, Lt. Alia Paramore said in a statement. She said dispatchers heard from several 911 callers referencing gunshots in the area.

Two people were found in the parking lot of 1300 E. Washington St., the law office of W. Benjamin McClain Jr., across from Cleveland Park and the Greenville Zoo.

One person was detained while the second person ran into the law office building. The person who ran fired shots at the officers from inside the building, Paramore said.

The person was identified by the Greenville County Coroner's Office as 25-year-old W. Benjamin McClain III.

One officer returned fire while other officers took cover. A SWAT team and crisis negotiators responded to the scene. The Greenville County Sheriff's Office also responded to assist and a robot was deployed into the building to locate the man inside, Paramore said.

McClain III was found to be deceased inside. No officers were injured, Paramore said.

About a dozen bullet holes were scattered about the front window panes of the law office, which is next to the Greenville County Democratic Party headquarters. One window pane was shattered.

A man and woman inside the law office told a reporter to leave the parking lot and declined to comment Saturday afternoon.

Officers were cleaning up crime-scene tape and leaving the area around noon Saturday. Several Greenville police officers remained on scene.

The State Law Enforcement Division is now investigating, which is typical for most law enforcement-related shootings in South Carolina.

SLED spokesman Tommy Crosby said in a statement that agents are conducting interviews with the responding officers and others.

Coroner Jeff Fowler said in a statement that McClain III was pronounced dead around 2:30 a.m.

The shooting is the 14th officer-involved shooting in South Carolina so far this year and the first involving an officer with the Greenville Police Department, according to SLED's records.

The identity of the officer involved in the shooting has not been released.

Paramore declined to provide the officer's name and additional information, deferring questions to the Coroner's Office and SLED. SLED has also declined further comments.

The Greenville News has requested the incident report from the Greenville Police Department and has requested SLED's case file from its investigation, which is ongoing.

Check back for more on this developing story.

Daniel J. Gross is an investigative watchdog reporter focusing on public safety and law enforcement for The Greenville News. Reach him at dgross@greenvillenews.com or on Twitter @danieljgross.