A 19-year-old Shreveporter died Monday in a crash after a minutes-long pursuit with Louisiana State Police. Five passengers of the vehicle reported injuries.

LaKendrick O'Neal, of the 2900 block of Grassmere Street in Shreveport, was identified Monday afternoon by the Caddo Parish Coroner's Office and LSP as the driver of a vehicle that crashed into a tree after a police pursuit.

Just after 2 a.m. Monday, LSP Troop G began helping Shreveport police in dispersing large crowds of people who were suspected of participating in street racing activities in various locations, LSP said in a news release.

Troopers reportedly attempted a traffic stop on a 2016 Chrysler 300 for reckless operation. The vehicle, driven by O'Neal, was occupied by five additional passengers whose ages range from 16 to 20, police said.

More:Crime beat: Shreveport reports 15 homicides in first four months of 2020

"O’Neal refused to stop leading to a pursuit on multiple city streets," LSP said in the news release.

"While fleeing at a high rate of speed on Louisiana Highway 511 near Meriwether Road, O’Neal failed to negotiate a right hand curve and lost control of his vehicle."

The vehicle left the roadway and struck a tree.

The Caddo Coroner's Office stated that the crash occurred in the 700 block of West 70th Street.

O'Neal was pronounced dead at the scene.

The other occupants of the vehicle were taken to an area hospital with moderate to severe injuries.

The restraint usage is unknown for O'Neal and the multiple passengers.

LSP Troop G's public information officer Brent Hardy told The Times that the pursuit lasted about four to five minutes.

A toxicology sample was obtained for analysis. The crash remains under investigation.

This year, Troop G has investigated six fatal crashes resulting in six deaths.

Emily Enfinger is the breaking news reporter for The Shreveport Times, covering crime and court. Follow her on Twitter at @EmilyEnfinger.

Have a news tip? Email Emily at eenfinger@gannett.com.