A Minneapolis man with more than a dozen felony convictions was charged Friday with crashing a stolen car last week and killing a St. Paul grandmother.

Xia Her-Xiong, 31, was arrested Thursday, according to the St. Paul Police Department. He was charged with one count each of criminal vehicular homicide and auto theft.

The crash occurred at about 3 a.m. Jan. 7, when Her-Xiong ran a stop sign at Atlantic Street and Minnehaha Avenue in the Dayton’s Bluff neighborhood, hitting a car driven by Alison Annen, 60.

According to the criminal complaint, Her-Xiong was driving the stolen Ford Focus 61 mph in a 30-mph zone. He had accelerated after seeing a police car. Following the collision, he and a passenger fled on foot. The passenger has also been arrested, police said.

The officer had spotted the Focus, and, after running its license plates, discovered that the car had been reported stolen Jan. 6 from a woman who had left her car running while she went inside to drop off her daughter.

The officer followed the vehicle and was at least five blocks behind when Her-Xiong ran the stop sign and broadsided a 2007 PT Cruiser. The officer then activated his emergency lights and siren.

A female passenger in the Focus told police that two men had fled the scene.

The officer found two women pinned inside the PT Cruiser. Annen, who was not moving, and a passenger, who had to be cut from the vehicle by firefighters.

The officer started CPR on Annen until medics arrived to take over. She was pronounced dead at the scene. The passenger, a 59-year-old woman, was taken to Regions Hospital with injuries that police said were not life-threatening.

The Ramsey County medical examiner said Annen died of multiple traumatic injuries due to a motor vehicle accident.

The female passenger from the Focus gave police the name of the driver. She said he had asked her to hang out that evening.

Her-Xiong had picked her and her cousin up in Minneapolis and they drank alcohol while together. She told police he was driving her home at the time of the crash and that she did not know the car was stolen.

Of Her-Xiong’s dozen prior felony convictions, seven of them are motor vehicle thefts, according to court documents.

A GoFundMe site was set up to help Annen’s family with funeral costs.

According to Jenna Cook, the organizer of the fundraiser, Annen was a White Earth tribal member and a lifelong Rice Street resident. She had been working part time at Walmart. She was a mother of three and a grandmother of four.

“Anytime she came across an item, she always had someone in mind who she could give it to, and she would save that treasure until they crossed paths once again,” Cook wrote. “She wouldn’t enter someone’s home empty-handed which is just so telling of how generous she truly was. She had a laugh and personality no one could forget.”