FARMINGDALE, N.Y. (CBSNewYork) -- There is confusion and sadness in the suburbs.

Police on Long Island revealed on Wednesday that an off duty NYPD officer shot and killed his childhood friend, CBS2's Jennifer McLogan reported.

"I just wanted to go see where this happened, to see if I could get answers," said "Ellen," the victim's stepmother.

She could not contain her emotions as she wondered how could a police officer, the best friend of her 25-year-old son, Christopher Curro, could be involved in his deadly shooting.

"It's just horrendous. It's not a self defense. It's like an execution. I don't understand," Ellen said.

Sources said a fight broke out Tuesday night on a wooded path involving former schoolmates just steps from the intersection of Langdon Road and Cornell Place in South Farmingdale. A 26-year-old cop who is assigned to the 109th Precinct in Queens and lives in North Massapequa allegedly pulled his off duty weapon and shot his buddy in the head, police said.

"Our information is that he is a fairly new officer, out of the Police Academy and assigned to a Queens precinct," Nassau County Police Commissioner Patrick Ryder said.

Ryder said the motive is unclear.

Nearby homeowner Mary Fanelli told CBS2 what she saw.

"It's here right in front of my house. I had people calling," Fanelli said. "I did see the plain clothes officer on the curb. He had a badge around his neck on the curb and it did look like he was being questioned."

Neighbors are on edge. The victim's family was inconsolable. The friends lived three blocks apart and police are trying to piece together the final moments leading up to the fatal shooting.

"He was any NYPD officer that discharged his firearm. An individual was struck in the head and killed and it's an ongoing investigation," NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said.

"They grew up together. They were best friends, literally best friends," the victim's stepmother said.

For now, the Nassau County district attorney is leading the investigation, but the state attorney general could soon take over the disturbing case.