Post Date: 07/14/2020 8:49 AM

UPDATE:

Mohave County Sheriff’s Office Deputy Involved Shooting on May 13

On Monday, June 29th, KPD received notification from the Mohave County Attorney’s Office that the case submitted by the Kingman Police Department has been reviewed. Based on the KPD investigation and the autopsy report it is the determination of the Mohave County Attorney’s Office that Buddy Dale LOTT died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. It has been determined that there is nothing to support criminal action against the deputy and that the use of force, though it did not contribute to the death, was reasonable and justified.

Incident Details from 5/13/20:

According to involved deputies and witnesses, LOTT got out of his vehicle and was walking in the 3700blk. of Shaeffer Ave. after pointing a .40 caliber handgun at his head. As the deputies followed LOTT in their marked cars, LOTT pointed his gun at a deputy. Multiple witnesses reported the deputies continued to tell LOTT to put down his weapon, which LOTT refused and either pointed the gun at his head or at deputies, despite repeated attempts by deputies to get LOTT to put the gun down. Eventually LOTT ran to the alley between Shaeffer Ave and John L Ave and got on the ground in a “firing position” facing a deputy. That deputy, identified as Deputy Kevin Gunnoe, and other witnesses, heard a gunshot and saw movement from LOTT. Deputy Gunnoe fired a shot at LOTT, striking LOTT in the elbow. It has been determined that LOTT had shot himself before being shot by the deputy. Other witnesses reported seeing LOTT walking with the gun and were afraid LOTT was going to enter their yard and take them hostage. Witnesses also heard LOTT yell “(expletive)..I’ll kill you and myself!”

(Released Thursday, 5/14/20)

UPDATE to Mohave County Sheriff’s Office OIS

Buddy Dale Lott has been identified as the deceased 50-year-old Kingman man from yesterday’s Officer-Involved Shooting. Today, the Medical Examiner’s Office conducted an autopsy and determined Mr. Lott’s cause of death was suicide from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.

The investigation remains on-going and no other details will be released at this time.

(Released Wednesday, 5/13/20)

Kingman Police Department Investigating Mohave County Sheriff’s Officer-Involved Shooting

Kingman Police detectives are conducting a criminal investigation of an officer-involved shooting that occurred on Wednesday, May 13th, at about 12:30pm, in the area of Shaeffer Ave. and Norrie Dr. The involved officer is a deputy with the Mohave County Sheriff’s Office, wherein a 50-year-old Kingman man was killed. The cause of death hasn’t been confirmed, but may have been self-inflicted.

Earlier in the day Arizona Department of Public Safety detectives attempted to make a traffic stop on a black in color Chevrolet Suburban. The driver of the Suburban fled, refusing to stop. Later, an MCSO deputy observed a vehicle matching this description in the area of Tommie Dr., driving erratically. At one point the suspect driver stopped and exited the vehicle armed with a handgun. The driver refused the deputy’s commands and allegedly pointed the handgun at the deputy. The deputy did not fire at the suspect. The suspect did not shoot at the deputy and continued to walk through the neighborhood holding the handgun. Witnesses reported seeing the suspect holding the gun to his own head.

A second deputy attempted to confront the suspect in the area of Shaeffer Ave. and Norrie Dr. At this point the suspect allegedly pointed the handgun at the deputy. The deputy discharged his firearm at the suspect several times. The suspect continued to flee on foot. The suspect was found nearby, deceased. The suspect had multiple bullet wounds, one possibly being self-inflicted.

Per standard procedure the deputy who fired at the suspect has been placed on administrative leave. The suspect’s identity is not being released pending next of kin notification.

No further information is being released at this time as the investigation is ongoing.