RALEIGH, N.C. — Security video shows a man holding a gas station clerk at gunpoint during a robbery Wednesday before he was fatally shot by Raleigh police officers.

Officers responded to a report of an armed robbery at the BP gas station at 2120 New Bern Ave. Upon arrival, several officers exchanged gunfire with the suspected robber.

Security video released by police shows the hooded suspect, identified as David Tylek Atkinson, 24, jumping over the store countertop, crashing through a plexiglass shield, and pointing a handgun at the store clerk. The gunman stuffed cash and tobacco products into a bag as one customer ran out of the store and a second backed out as soon as he walked in and saw a robbery in progress.

NO TITLE PROVIDED

The clerk, Aktural Khan, said the gunman told him to give him everything, and he complied.

"Me scared, you know," Khan said Thursday. "He could have shot me, right?"

After about three minutes inside, Atkinson forced Khan to get on his knees before leaving the gas station with a white plastic bag and fleeing on foot toward the Clarendon Oaks Apartments, police say.

“This guy go, the police start coming. Me thinking me now safe,” Khan said.

One of the customers who left the store called 911, and when officers arrived at the BP, witnesses pointed them in the direction where Atkinson had run. When officers approached Atkinson, gunfire was exchanged, and one police officer was shot along with Atkinson.

Police said Atkinson fell to the ground and was taken into custody. A handgun and a large pile of cigarettes and cash were on the ground beside him.

Police provided first aid for Atkinson until EMS arrived, but he died from his wounds at WakeMed.

The wounded officer, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, was transported by police vehicle to WakeMed, where he was treated and released.

New Bern Avenue was blocked off to traffic as police investigated.

NO TITLE PROVIDED

Khan, who has worked at the BP for three years, said he was more scared after seeing the security video than he was during the robbery.

Wednesday night was the first time the BP station had been robbed since it opened in 2017, according to the store manager.

The State Bureau of Investigation is conducting an investigation into the actions of multiple officers, and the Raleigh Police Department is conducting a criminal investigation into the actions of Atkinson leading up to the shooting and into the actions of the officers.

Raleigh police haven't released the names of the officers involved or said how many fired their weapons during the incident. Body-worn and dashboard cameras captured much of the encounter and are expected to be released at a later time, police said.

Atkinson hasn't been convicted of a crime in North Carolina, but he has outstanding weapons, alcohol and traffic charges in Guilford, Orange and Mecklenburg counties, according to court records.