One Killed, Two Off-Duty State Troopers Injured In Wicomico Co. Crash

May 15, 2020

(FRUITLAND, MD) — One person was killed and two off-duty state troopers were injured in a head-on crash involving three vehicles tonight in Wicomico County.

The deceased is identified as John M. Simmons, 62, of New York, NY. He was driving a 2019 Hyundai Tucson. He was transported from the scene to Peninsula Regional Medical Center where he was pronounced deceased.

The two off-duty state troopers are identified as Trooper Graham King, 23, assigned to the Princess Anne Barrack, and Trooper Ashley Thoren, 25, assigned to the Salisbury Barrack. Both were riding together in a 2019 Ford Explorer unmarked Maryland State Police vehicle, driven by Trooper King.

Trooper King was transported by a Maryland State Police helicopter to the University of Maryland R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center for treatment of his injuries. Trooper Thoren was transported by ambulance to Peninsula Regional Medical Center for treatment of her injuries. She was treated and released from the hospital late tonight and is recuperating at home.

A third vehicle involved in the crash was a 2017 Toyota Prius, occupied by Deborah and Kenneth Couture, of Salisbury, Md. Neither person reported any injuries.

Shortly after 7:00 p.m. tonight, Trooper Thoren called the Salisbury Barrack and reported the crash she and Trooper Graham had just been involved in on Rt. 513, south of Moonglow Road. Troopers from the Salisbury Barrack responded, as did county fire and EMS personnel. Both troopers had to be extricated from their vehicle by rescue personnel.

The preliminary State Police investigation indicates the Hyundai driven by Simmons was southbound on Rt. 513, following the Toyota Prius on the two-lane roadway. The investigation indicates Simmons attempted to pass the Prius and crossed over the double yellow line into the northbound lane of Rt. 513.

Trooper King was northbound on Rt. 513 and attempted to move his patrol vehicle to the right to avoid colliding with the vehicle in his lane, but was struck head-on by the Hyundai. Following that impact, the Hyundai also struck the Prius it had been attempting to pass.

The Maryland State Police Crash Team responded and is conducting the ongoing investigation. Assistance was provided by Salisbury Barrack troopers, the Aviation Command, and MDOT State Highway Administration CHART personnel.

The investigation is continuing.