Pheonecia Ratliff filed domestic violence and stalking charges against her ex-boyfriend. One week after his arrest, Jamarquis Black kidnapped her, shot her sister, and then killed Pheoneica and himself in a murder-suicide on the side of the interstate, feet away from police and his mother, authorities said Friday.

The former couple shared a toddler daughter.

According to Assistant Chief Terrence Ware with the Canton Police Department, Black was hiding in the bushes outside of Ratliff's mother's house in Canton Thursday night. When Ratliff and her younger sister got home from work at Subway, just before midnight., Black jumped out of the bushes and tackled Ratliff.

The two "wrestled," Ware said, and Ratliff's sister tried to intervene. Black then shot her in the thigh and forced Ratliff into a vehicle. It was not immediately clear if the couple's child was at the home at the time.

Due to the circumstances, authorities were able to track Black's phone and pinged him in the Philadelphia area. At some point, a trooper with the Mississippi Highway Patrol got behind the vehicle driven by Black and attempted to pull him over on I-55 South. He led authorities on a chase before crashing near the 30-mile marker in Bogue Chitto, MHP Capt. Johnny Poulos said Friday morning.

Black's mother was on scene at the crash site, Ware said.

She called Black and asked him to surrender, Canton Chief of Police Brown told WAPT-TV. He reportedly responded that he would surrender if allowed to see his child.

But, "it ended in a tragedy where he killed himself and her," Ware said.

Ratliff was 23. Black was 24.

Ratliff's sister is physically "OK" after being shot, Ware said.

When reached Friday afternoon, a family member of Black's declined to comment. Those who knew Ratliff said she was trying to get away from Black.

A student at Jackson State University, "she was intent on making something of her life," said David Willey, her boss and the general manager at Subway.

"She was a very delightful person," Willey said. "I mean, she's as good as gold."

Speaking of Ratliff, Willey had one request: "Let everyone know what a wonderful person she was."

Referring to "Necia," Subway owner and Madison County Coroner Alex Breeland, said, "everybody loved her. People were just crazy about her."

But, according to Willey, issues with Black had "been going on for quite some time."

"There was a lot of domestic violence in this," he said.

The former couple broke up and Ratliff had recently moved back into her mother's house.

"She made her mind up, she had left the guy, he started going crazy and she started filing reports on him," Ware said.

Ratliff filed a domestic violence report against Black in April. One week later, she filed stalking charges. He was arrested May 8 and charged with domestic violence and aggravated stalking. He was booked into the Madison County Detention Center and received a $10,000 bond on the domestic violence charge and a $5,000 bond on the stalking charge.

He bonded out of jail Monday.

If you or someone who know is a victim of domestic violence, call 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) or visit https://www.thehotline.org/help/

Do you want to stay informed on more topics like this one? Subscribe to the digital Clarion Ledger.

Contact Sarah Fowler at 601-961-7303 or sfowler@gannett.com. Follow her on Facebook and Twitter.