The city of Germantown has not released the names of three police officers who reportedly responded to a domestic disturbance call and ended up fatally shooting a 49-year-old man named Brian Cooper at his own home earlier this month.

The city has so far denied The Commercial Appeal's public records requests related to the shooting.

The situation reflects broader issues: in the Memphis area in recent years, police agencies have often shielded the identities of officers involved in shootings and released little information about these incidents for months. More detailed information about police shootings sometimes emerges through civil lawsuits and Tennessee Bureau of Investigation reports, but the process can take a year or more.

The TBI has been brought in to review the Germantown shooting and so far has released little information.

Asked Thursday about the weapons found at the scene, TBI spokeswoman Keli McAlister said in an email she would not comment further. "The extent of what we can share at this point is in our initial statement."

That initial statement came hours after the shooting on May 17. McAlister told reporters that Germantown police were called to a home in the 6900 block of Corsica Drive about 3:21 a.m. due to a report of a domestic disturbance with gunfire.

"The officers encountered a man with several firearms who refused orders to drop his weapons," she said. "For reasons still under investigation, three officers fired at the man, fatally wounding him." That man was Cooper, who had worked in the hotel industry.

Neighbors have described hearing one gunshot, then several more gunshots several minutes later.

This week another neighbor described hearing the police shout warnings exactly twice: "Drop the gun! Drop the gun!" One or two seconds after the warnings, a burst of shots followed, this person said.

Neighbors have said Brian Cooper's wife was at the home at the time of the shooting. No one answered the door at the home on Wednesday, and she did not immediately respond to a letter left for her.

No funeral arrangements have been announced.

The day after the shooting, Capt. Mike Fisher of the Germantown Police Department responded to questions in an email.

"We have not made any prior domestic violence related calls to the address. As with all critical incidents, an administrative review will be conducted prior to officers returning to duty. The officer's names will not be released at this time."

Since that day, Fisher has not responded to a reporter's inquiries about the shooting.

City denies public records requests

The Commercial Appeal filed public records requests for the police incident report on the shooting, reports on prior police calls to that address and documents related to any suspension of the officers involved in the shooting.

Capt. Bill Stemmler of the Germantown Police Department responded by citing a legal exemption related to ongoing investigations.

“Additionally the records related to (suspensions of the officers) which contain identifying information of the officers, if released, might also seriously impede or irreparably harm the ongoing investigation being conducted by the Germantown Police Department,” he wrote.

He also wrote that the police officers could be considered crime victims, and pointed to a state law called Tennessee Crime Victims' Bill of Rights that requires privacy protections.

“Accordingly, if the officer is considered the ‘victim’ of a ‘crime,’ then their identifying information may be confidential under the Victims’ Right Act,” he wrote.

The Commercial Appeal is still in discussions with the city about releasing the material.

Deborah Fisher is executive director of the Tennessee Coalition for Open Government, a nonprofit advocacy group that lobbies for government transparency in the state. The Commercial Appeal is a member of the organization.

She said no one wants to impede a police investigation.

"However, if releasing the name of the officer does not impede the investigation, the reason it should be released is because when an officer of our government uses lethal force and someone dies, that's a big event for them, and for the community," she said.

"If the name of the officer is withheld, then there can be suspicion in the community that there might be an effort to sort of cover up what happened. And, on the other hand, if the name of the officer is released it just shows, 'hey we're being very transparent.'"

She said she believes the public understands that police officers are sometimes forced to shoot someone. "I think the public actually accepts that sometimes that happens and it's tragic for everyone around, but they were in a situation. Most cases end up being that they have reasonable cause to use that lethal force. but still, there are some cases where there are questions."

Once the TBI finishes its review, it will turn over its file to the Shelby County District Attorney's Office. In 2015, the prosecutor's office presented the officer-involved shooting death of Darrius Stewart to a grand jury, but no indictment was filed. Since then, the prosecutor's office has completed and published reviews of 12 separate fatal shootings, and cleared police in all 12 cases.

The prosecutor's office usually releases TBI files online, but with heavy redactions, including redactions of the officers' names and pictures.

Investigative reporter Daniel Connolly welcomes tips and comments from the public. Reach him at 529-5296, daniel.connolly@commercialappeal.com, or on Twitter at @danielconnolly.