OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTINGS

Incident Information This section includes basic details for each incident, including the date, the case number, the case status, and the location of the shooting. It is important to note that Response-to-Resistance (RTR) case numbers are assigned to any RTR incident that undergoes a formal review (not just officer-involved shootings), so not every RTR case number will be found on this page.

Involved Individuals This section lists basic demographic information for the involved officer(s) and subject(s), as well as information regarding how the subject was armed and his/her condition. Pursuant to Florida State Statute Chapter 112, the names of officers that are currently serving in an undercover capacity are withheld for the safety of the officer.

State Attorney Review Each officer-involved shooting is first reviewed by the State Attorney’s Office (SAO) to determine if the member’s use of deadly force was justifiable pursuant to state law. In most cases, the SAO releases a formal statement explaining their findings. These statements are posted under this section. Since the SAO did not issue letters for 2015 and 2016 incidents where the subject was not struck with gunfire, those incidents will not have a letter attached.

JSO Administrative Review At the conclusion of the SAO review, JSO then conducts an administrative review to determine if the officer’s use of deadly force was within departmental policy and in accordance with training. This inquiry is conducted by the RTR Review Board, which is composed of ranked subject matter experts from the agency. This Board determines if the use of force was within policy, if the officer needs additional training, and if further investigation is needed by the Internal Affairs Unit. The Board’s findings are sent to the Sheriff, who may either adopt the Board’s recommendations or amend them. These columns display the Sheriff’s final determination for each case.

Video Links This section includes links to public statements given for each case. In the near future, recordings of the RTR Board hearings will also be available.

As part of JSO's commitment to transparency, this page was created to provide information on Jacksonville's officer-involved shootings. As details on any officer-involved shooting become available for public release, they will be added here. The data for this page have been organized into the following five categories which can be clicked for additional explanation: