This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

The Latest – May 29 (11:30 a.m.) — The Tuolumne County Sheriff’s Office has identified the man shot and killed by deputies as 56-year-old Richard Councilman of Jamestown.

JAMESTOWN, Calif. (KTXL) — Deputies shot and killed a suspect who walked out of a Jamestown apartment holding what investigators later learned was a replica firearm.

Just after 1 p.m., Tuolumne County deputies were called to a domestic violence incident at the Oak Hills Apartments on Preston Lane, according to Sheriff Bill Pooley.

The night prior, a judge had issued an emergency protective order against the 56-year-old man who was involved in the incident.

“He has an extensive history of domestic violence going over the last several years,” Sheriff Pooley told FOX40. “We have been at the residence prior.”

When deputies got to the apartment complex, they told the man to leave the second-story apartment. Pooley says the man refused to go outside and instead threatened to shoot at deputies.

Roughly 20 minutes later, Pooley reports the suspect left the apartment and deputies tried to stop him by firing bean bag rounds at him.

“The subject then produced a firearm, forcing the deputies to defend themselves,” explained Pooley. “The subject was shot a number of times and perished at the scene.”

It is unknown how many deputies fired at the suspect or how many times he was hit.

OIS at the Oak Hills Apartment complex in Jamestown witnesses tell us they heard up to 10 shots and a verbal back-and-forth between the man that was shot and sheriff’s deputies @FOX40 pic.twitter.com/Qvs92tRTTO — Eric Rucker (@EricRuckerfox40) May 27, 2020

“Cops were yelling at the guy, ‘Put the gun down. Put the gun down.’ Next thing you know, bam, bam, bam, 10 shots or so,” neighbor Christian Standers told FOX40.

Sanders said his wife was nearby on their porch with their 2-year-old daughter.

“She ran inside and grabbed our child and went into the bathroom, tried laying down on the ground,” said Sanders.

The sheriff’s office later learned the suspect was carrying a replica firearm.

The suspect’s identity has not been released.