LANSING – Police have uploaded video clips from a gunfight that left a man dead and an officer injured Tuesday night on Lansing's north side.

The video clips were taken from police body-camera and dash-camera footage recorded during the incident on North Walnut Street, Lansing police said.

The video was posted on YouTube. Police noted that the video clips include images and audio that some people may find disturbing.

The incident happened about 9 p.m. Tuesday in the 900 block of North Walnut Street.

Jason Jesse Gallegos, 37, was shot and killed after stepping out of a house and opening fire at officers staged outside, police said. The officers were responding to a reported domestic assault and a gun being fired inside the residence. They were trying to negotiate with Gallegos when he came out of the house with weapons.

A Lansing officer suffered a non-life-threatening gunshot wound to the leg, police said.

Along with the uploaded video, Lansing police on Friday released a timeline of events and a few more details about the incident.

According to the timeline, officers arrived at the scene at 8:29 p.m.and began trying to communicate with the suspect and a woman inside.

A woman came outside and talked with officers, and police began talking with Gallegos via cellphone "in attempts to de-escalate the situation."

Armed with a shotgun and a handgun, the man walked outside at 9:01 p.m. and "begins shooting at officers," police said.

"Officers returned fire, fatally wounding the suspect," they said.

The recordings uploaded to YouTube on Friday show dash-cam video from a police cruiser parked down the street and body-cam video from officers exchanging gunfire with Gallegos.

Six Lansing officers and one Lansing sergeant have been placed on administrative leave while Michigan State Police investigate the incident.

The video clips were released by the Lansing Police Department.

Lansing Police Chief Daryl Green released the video to stay "true to the department's commitment to transparency and police legitimacy," Lansing Police Public Relations Director Robert Merritt said in a news release.

Contact Ken Palmer at (517) 377-1032 or kpalmer@lsj.com. Follow him on Twitter @KBPalm_lsj.