Syracuse, N.Y. — Police officers who fired their weapons in three incidents within a month in Syracuse and Manlius were justified for their use of force, Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick announced Wednesday.

Jakelle Davis, 23, of Syracuse, was shot in the face by Officer Ryan McGovern early June 11 after police say he pulled a handgun after approaching officers investigating a report of 16 shots fired minutes earlier. Davis survived a gunshot wound to his face and was charged with pulling a gun on officers in the 100 block of Mark Avenue.

Kenneth Bennett, 61 of Manlius, was killed after pointing a BB gun that appeared to be a rifle at officers during a May 26 incident at 140 Wilson Drive. Bennett’s family had called police after he reportedly struck his sister. Bennett then got on the call with 911 himself and warned that police would have to shoot him in the head if they wanted him, the DA’s investigation found. Trooper Gary Novotny fired the fatal shot.

Another law enforcement officer, Deputy Michael Hoosock, was also cleared of wrongdoing in firing at a man later charged with opening fire inside the Syracuse Regional Transportation Center on May 10. Andrew Booker, 31, of Massachusetts, was charged following the incident. The deputy did not hit anybody with bullets.

Jakelle Davis shooting

Three officers were investigating a computerized report of 16 shots fired in the 100 block of Mark Avenue when they were approached by Davis, the DA’s office said.

“Mr. Davis approached to within feet of Officer McGovern, blew cigarette smoke in his face, made a disparaging remark, and retrieved a weapon,” Fitzpatrick said in a news release. “Observing the weapon and in fear for his life, Officer McGovern drew his duty weapon and fired a single shot at Mr. Davis, rendering him incapacitated.”

Later investigation linked a gun found at Davis’s feet after the shooting to casings recovered from the initial shots fired that initiated the call, prosecutors have said.

The shooting itself was notable because there was no body camera footage from any of the officers involved, nor civilians identified who provided eyewitness accounts.

Nevertheless, the DA’s office found enough evidence to clear McGovern of wrongdoing. Davis, who was facing an illegal weapon charge at the time of the shooting, now faces another illegal weapon charge, as well as menacing a police officer and related charges.

Davis faces 30 years or more in prison if convicted of both gun cases, as well as menacing the officer. His case remains on hold because no grand juries are considering indictments during the Covid-19 shutdown.

Kenneth Bennett shooting

This BB gun, which looks like a rifle, was held by Kenneth Bennett at the time he was shot and killed by police in Manlius.

Unlike the Davis shooting, there were multiple body cameras that captured the fatal shooting of Bennett during a domestic violence call in Manlius.

Police were first called after Bennett reportedly struck his 59-year-old sister. The caller warned that Bennett had what she thought might be a “BB gun,” but wasn’t sure if it was real or not, the DA’s office found.

Bennett, who family said has mental issues, then got on the phone and began talking excitedly about motorcycle gangs Hell’s Angels and Warlocks coming to his house. He warned officers that they would need to shoot him in the head “if they wanted him.”

Upon arrival, several law enforcement officers with firearms experience identified the weapon Bennett was carrying as a real lever-action rifle. That led to a standoff, in which local residents were warned to stay indoors and law enforcement created a perimeter around Bennett.

“For nearly an hour and a half, Mr. Bennett paced in his driveway, front yard, and the street in front of his home armed with the apparent rifle,” the DA’s office found. “Mr. Bennett continually shouted and threatened police, possibly attempting to goad police into shooting him.”

At some point, Bennett began walking toward two Manlius police cars, yelling and gesturing with the weapon toward police, the investigation found.

That led Manlius Police Officer Daniel Tyrel to fire a rubber bullet, striking Bennett in the leg. The man stumbled, but regained his balance while still holding the apparent gun, the DA's office said.

“Within seconds, Mr. Bennett raised the apparent rifle again, pointing it at the officers stationed at the Manlius vehicles from approximately 50 feet away,” the DA investigation continued.

At that moment, Tyrel fired again with a rubber bullet, while Trooper Gary Novotny fired once with his patrol rifle. Bennett was struck in the abdomen. He was taken by an ambulance, waiting at the scene, to Upstate University Hospital, where he later died.

It turned out that Bennett was actually carrying a BB gun. But the DA concluded that officers were reasonably in fear of their lives based on the circumstances.

Regional Transportation Center shooting

23 1 / 23 Suspect in Syracuse Regional Transportation Center double shooting faces attempted murder

The last incident did not actually involve an officer striking anyone with bullets. But Deputy Michael Hoosock was cleared of opening fire at a man who, witnesses say, had opened fire inside Syracuse’s Regional Transportation Center on May 10, injuring two people.

Andrew Booker, 31, the accused shooter, called 911 himself after opening fire, the DA’s office said.

“The defendant identified himself and acknowledged he had a weapon, but informed the 911 operator there were multiple individuals outside the bus station attempting to harm him,” the DA’s investigation revealed.

When officers arrived, Booker is accused of pointing the gun at them.

“Mr. Booker raised his weapon in the direction of the officers and Sgt. Hoosock fired a single shot, which did not strike Mr. Booker,” the DA’s office said. “Several officers then entered the building and Mr. Booker complied with their orders to drop his weapon and get down on the floor.”

A security guard is credited with taking a bullet while helping hide a family with two small children in a back room.

Booker was charged with attempted murder, among other charges. He’s undergoing mental health evaluations.

Staff writer Douglass Dowty can be reached at ddowty@syracuse.com or 315-470-6070.