A man found dead after a police ambush in Davenport fired at officers and was killed by a police bullet, an investigation released Thursday concluded.

Marquis M. Tousant, 23, of Rock Island, Illinois, was killed. In Thursday's report, Scott County Attorney Michael Walton ruled that the shooting was justified.

Tousant was one of two people killed late May 31 and early June 1 following riots in Davenport after the death of George Floyd. Police responded to more than 20 shots fired calls and four people were injured.

Around 3 a.m. June 1, three Davenport police officers were ambushed near 1400 Myrtle Street. Officers were looking for suspects in a shooting at a Walmart that killed 22-year-old Italia Marie Kelly and another at a jewelry store, according to the investigation released by Walton's office.

The officers were riding in an unmarked Ford F-150 pickup truck. Several bullets hit the truck. The driver, Davenport police Sgt. Scott Lansing, was struck in the leg. Another bullet hit Lansing's holster, which was on his left hip, the investigation said. Bullets also hit the driver's headrest.

Tousant fired on the truck, Walton's investigation found. Lt. Greg Behning returned fire from the passenger's seat and fired through the rear window. The officers did not know at the time Behning struck and killed Tousant, according to the report.

Bullet fragments recovered from Lansing's holster, the driver's side door and left front wheel matched 9mm bullet casings found under Tousant's body, the report said.

Tousant was found later by police at the scene of the ambush. He died from a single gunshot wound, the report said.

"A reasonable conclusion from the firearm analysis and other evidence is Tousant is the individual who began firing at the Ford F150 striking the vehicle at least five times," the report said.

Officers did not have time to activate their body cameras because the shooting happened so fast and unexpectedly, the report said. The truck is not a squad car and was not equipped with squad car cameras, the report noted.

Walton's report found the shooting falls under "'reasonable force'" allowed to law enforcement officers under Iowa law.

"The evidence shows the use of deadly force by Lt. Behning was justified and reasonable under the circumstances," the report said. "The actions by Marquis Tousant put the lives and physical safety of the officers in immediate danger.

"It was reasonable for Behning to return fire to limit further injury or death to others and himself."

Lansing was seriously injured in the ambush.

Parker Marlin Belz, 21, was charged with first-degree murder in Kelly's death. Police said Belz shot Kelly in a Walmart parking as she left a protest.

Kelly was trying to get into a friend's car to leave the protest at around 11:20 p.m. when someone shot her, a friend later told family members. Thirty minutes later, doctors pronounced her dead on arrival at a local hospital.

Philip Joens covers breaking news for The Des Moines Register. He can be reached at 515-443-3347 at pjoens@registermedia.com or on Twitter @Philip_Joens.

Your subscription makes our journalism possible. Subscribe today at DesMoinesRegister.com/Deal.