A Leon County grand jury decided not to indict any Tallahassee Police Department officers involved in three separate fatal shootings of suspects — bringing an end to high drama that surrounded their deliberations all week.

Grand jurors found that police officers acted lawfully and were justified in their use of lethal force in the shootings of Mychael Johnson, Tony McDade and Wilbon Woodard. On Friday, the panel issued reports on the shootings while the city released an edited assortment of evidence, dash cam and body camera video of them. The videos, which are graphic, can be viewed on the city's website.

TPD Chief Lawrence Revell thanked the grand jury in a news release for its service.

"These citizens provided a valuable service to our community, and I hope that its findings today can help us begin to heal," said Revell.

News of the grand jury action came as the community braced for an outcome in the cases and the possibility it could light a powder keg of civil unrest. On Tuesday, officials set a week-long curfew, in part because of concerns of mass protests or violence.

Minutes after the report and video were released, protest organizers sent out a group text calling for a protest on Saturday.

“Tallahassee Police Dept officers ... will walk free!!!!” the text message said. “Show up tomorrow at 725 S. Bronough St. Wear a mask. #blacklivesmatter.”

Mutaqee Akbar, a Tallahassee attorney representing the McDade and Johnson families, said he understands the grand jury’s findings but believes police could have done more to avoid bloodshed.

“Now that we have the answers, we can move in a direction of healing for the families,” Akbar said. “I do think there’s a problem with policing when individuals can rely on law enforcement to help them commit suicide. And I think we need to take a different look at policing and the use of force.”

Stephanie Dobson Webster, an attorney for the Florida Police Benevolent Association, said he was thankful the grand jury made its findings after considering all the evidence.

"Officers today face increasing scrutiny and pressure to do their jobs and to do them right," she said. "No officer wants to find themselves in the position where they must take a life, but sometimes situations and circumstances present no other choice."

State Attorney Jack Campbell told media outlets early Friday afternoon that the grand jury’s work was not done and nothing would be released for days. Later, however, he said a judge unsealed documents in the three shootings, allowing them to be released.

The names of the officers who fatally shot two of the three suspects were redacted from the reports.

The grand jury reports were not devoid of criticism of officers. In the shooting of Mychael Johnson, one officer, Zackri Jones, yelled, “I’m going to kill you,” before shooting him in the back of the head during a violent struggle.

The grand jury recommended that TPD conduct training on officer commands and what should and should not be said to fleeing suspects.

“We feel that ‘stop, police’ or something else would be preferable, as the statement, ‘I’m going to kill you,’ could escalate the conduct of a suspect who is being chased by police and is already in a desperate frame of mind.”

The grand jury also found that the officer who shot and killed McDade was wearing a body camera but did not turn it on, which is against TPD policy.

“There is no footage from (the officer’s) camera because (he) failed to power up his camera that morning,” the grand jury wrote. “McDade’s mother witnessed McDade raising McDade’s hand in a shooting position in the direction of (the officer) and heard (him) giving McDade loud verbal commands.”

Documents:Read the grand jury findings from the three TPD-involved shootings

'Me and the law will have a standoff'

McDade, a 38-year-old Black transgender man, was shot and killed May 27 at a Holton Street apartment complex. Just moments before the shooting, McDade fatally stabbed Malik Jackson 21, whose mother, Jennifer Jackson, lived next door on Saxon Street and was the object of his romantic obsessions.

The grand jury wrote that on May 26, McDade entered Jennifer Jackson's apartment armed with a gun and a knife, which led to a violent confrontation with Malik Jackson and some of his family members.

A portion of the fight was recorded on cellphone video that the grand jury reviewed. The video, widely circulated on social media, showed a group of people slamming McDade to the ground and punching and kicking him.

While some saw it as a savage beating, Jackson family members have said they were defending themselves against someone who was armed, dangerous and mentally unhinged.

Later that night, McDade again burst into the Jacksons' apartment, brandishing a handgun and yelling “I’m going to get you” to Malik Jackson. Police were called after both incidents, but McDade was not there and no arrests were made.

McDade went live on Facebook the same night vowing to kill members of the Jackson family and to commit “suicide by cop.”

“This is Tony the Tiger, all alone, coming for your blood,” McDade said in the video. “Me and the law will have a standoff after I end you bitches’ lives, because I am fed up.”

The next morning, McDade snuck up on Malik Jackson, who was sitting in his vehicle in his mom’s driveway, and stabbed him repeatedly through the open door. Police arrived and issued a be-on-the-lookout for “a bald black female” armed with a gun and a knife who had just stabbed someone.

McDade fled to the apartment complex and called his mom, who drove over. McDade’s mother told one arriving officer, Trent Roberts, that her child was suicidal. About that time, the officer noticed a colleague giving commands to McDade.

“As Officer Roberts was addressing the situation, he heard loud noises and recognized that the noises were Officer (redacted) giving loud verbal commands in a very animated or frightened tone of voice. Officer Roberts then observed McDade in a shooting stance approximately 10-15 yards from Officer (redacted) while walking purposely toward Officer (redacted).”

The officer in McDade’s sights fired seven shots, striking McDade three times. Officers tried to resuscitate him but couldn’t.

One eyewitness gave a different account of what happened. The witness testified before the grand jury that the officer continued shooting McDade after he fell to the ground.

“(The witness) testified that at no point did he see anything in McDade’s hand, nor did McDade raise (his) arms in any way consistent with having a weapon.”

However, the grand jury wrote that Officer Roberts’ body camera footage showed no one near McDade at the time of the shooting. The video also shows McDade raise his arm.

Back story:

Akbar, who is representing the McDade family, said McDade’s gun was not loaded, though the grand jury report doesn’t mention that.

“Of course, law enforcement didn’t know that,” Akbar said. “But there has to be something else that we can do other than to take a life.”

He noted that police did not use deadly force in two recent incidents involving armed white people, including the owners of a strip mall who fired Aug. 27 on two Black men and one of their young sons as they dropped off a U-Haul and the Aug. 29 confrontation between protesters and a man with gun outside the Capitol.

Back story:Charges could still be filed after incident outside Capitol, state attorney's office says

Abigail Jackson, who was a close aunt to Malik Jackson, was called to testify Wednesday before the grand jury. She came with a printout of the last text message exchange they ever had and a $10 bill she planned to give him.

"I don't want the world to forget about Malik," she said. "He was the victim."

During a violent struggle, an officer yelled ‘I’ll kill you’

Johnson, 31, was killed March 20 after he led officers on a high-speed car chase and made multiple carjacking attempts after crashing.

Johnson, who was driving a stolen car, drove at speeds as high as 90 mph before wrecking near Blair Stone Road and Orange Avenue.

Officer Justin Davidson used a Taser after Johnson tried to run away, but it had no effect. After Johnson tried to commandeer another motorist's car, Davidson tackled him.

They fought on the ground, and Johnson reached for Davidson's gun, the report says.

“When Officer Davidson was pinned to the ground by Johnson, he was in fear that Johnson would succeed in getting his gun out of the holster and shooting or killing him with his own duty weapon," grand jurors wrote.

Officer Zackri Jones testified he hadn't decided whether to use lethal force when he shouted "I'll kill you" to Johnson. He said he was trying to get him to comply. Jones shot Johnson once in the back of the head during the struggle.

Johnson’s girlfriend, who was in the car with him, testified he said during the chase he was not going back to prison because he had an active warrant for his arrest.

Another woman, who had recently reported Johnson for domestic abuse, testified “he knew he was going to die and that if he ever got pulled over he was going to make the police kill him,” grand jurors wrote in summary of the testimony. “She believed that Johnson was capable of and willing to do anything to avoid going back to prison, including killing civilians and law enforcement officers.”

It was the second fatal shooting of a suspect by Jones, who in 2015 killed an armed man, Garland Lee Wingo, at Lake Ella. A grand jury found the use of force justified because Wingo brandished a handgun in a crowd and reached for it as he spoke to the officer, which posed a serious danger.

Suspect to police: 'I'll kill ya'

Woodard was killed May 19 after police were called to the parking lot of the Super China Buffet on North Monroe Street, near where the suspect had attacked another man.

The grand jury wrote that Woodard tried to gouge the man’s eyes out and was threatening him and others with a knife.

Woodard was hiding in the bushes when police officers arrived on scene. None of the officers were named in the report. He charged toward the officer with a “large hunting-steel knife,” the grand jury wrote.

The officer fired twice. Woodard continued, prompting the officer to fire five more times.

Woodard's final words were “I’ll kill ya,” the four-page report said.

“We find that Woodard's actions made necessary the deadly force used,” the report says. “Woodard ignored (the officer’s) repeated lawful orders to drop his weapon and gave every indication through his words and actions that he intended to kill (the officer).”

ONLINE AT TALLAHASSEE.COM: Reaction from city leaders and more breaking news coverage

Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly attributed a statement from the Florida Police Benevolent Association. The statement came from Stephanie Dobson Webster, general counsel for the Florida PBA.

Contact Jeff Burlew at jburlew@tallahassee.com or follow @JeffBurlew on Twitter.

Never miss a story: Subscribe to the Tallahassee Democrat.