Editor's Note: This story was originally published Feb. 1, 2014.

Tony Bean asked the Milwaukee police for help.

Yet he died shackled to a hospital bed, cut and bruised, after losing consciousness in a police van.

More than three years later, his widow is no closer to understanding what happened.

"I still have questions as to why he's gone," Teresa Bean said. "I'm hurt. I'm lonely. I miss him."

She isn't the only one left searching for answers in the wake of a loved one's death.

Bean is among at least 18 people who died in the custody of law enforcement agencies throughout Milwaukee County during the five-year period ending in 2012, not including suspects shot by police. At least 10 of them had medical or psychiatric conditions that were improperly monitored or left untreated by authorities, a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel investigation found.

None of the 18 custody deaths resulted in criminal charges against an officer. Discipline was handed down in just two cases — both under the jurisdiction of the Sheriff's Department — and the punishment of many of the officers was overturned.

In the aftermath of in-custody deaths such as Bean's, pathologists, prosecutors and law enforcement rely on each other's conclusions — even when those conclusions are flawed — ensuring no one is held accountable when prisoners die, the Journal Sentinel investigation found.

Medical examiners get much of their information about the circumstances surrounding a death from the police agencies involved. The district attorney's office doesn't file charges if the cause of death is natural or suicide — even if there is potential negligence that could be prosecuted. Law enforcement agencies seize on the prosecutor's decision when they refuse to discipline officers for rule violations that aren't criminal but nonetheless endanger prisoners.

Fred Cohen, a retired law professor at the State University of New York at Albany who has served as an independent monitor in federal civil rights cases involving prisoners, said such cozy relationships compromise the credibility of investigations.

Some deaths in custody are inevitable, he said, but it is "inherently unreasonable" to conclude that all of them are.

"What is mandatory here for running a reasonable operation is to have outside experts come in and figure out, 'What can we do to avoid this?'" Cohen said. "If you're not asking that question in doing an internal investigation, that's whitewashing."

Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn declined to be interviewed.

After being presented with an extensive list of the Journal Sentinel's findings and numerous specific questions months ago, police spokesman Lt. Mark Stanmeyer issued a three-paragraph statement that said, in part:

"All MPD related in-custody deaths are investigated by, at a minimum, four independent agencies: The Milwaukee Police Department, the Medical Examiner, the District Attorney, and the Fire and Police Commission. Investigations that reveal possible violations of the Milwaukee Police Department's Code of Conduct or Standard Operating Procedures are then investigated by Internal Affairs and referred to the Chief if discipline is warranted."

The statement did not address questions about how those investigations maintain impartiality. It also did not address Bean's death.

In that case, the feedback loop began when Milwaukee Police Lt. Jeff Point suggested Bean died of excited delirium — a rare and frequently disputed diagnosis often cited when people die in police custody. Former Assistant Medical Examiner Christopher Poulos agreed with Point and ruled the death accidental. Those rulings echoed through three more investigations — all of them labeled independent — that absolved everyone of responsibility despite troubling questions about Bean's death.

"All they were worried about was clearing their police officers' names, but no one actually tried to figure out what the heck happened," Teresa Bean said.

Pounding On Neighborhood Doors

The last time Teresa Bean saw her husband alive, he was playing video games with their son, Timothy, then 12. When Teresa and the couple's teenage daughter, Tiffany, left for a Mary Kay party around 4 p.m. Aug. 14, 2010, everything was fine, she said.

Bean's wife has no idea why he left the house or why he was wandering around near N. 23rd and W. Clarke streets, shouting for help, jumping over fences and darting into traffic.

Bean grew up in the neighborhood, but it was more than two miles from the home he shared with his wife and their two children.

He pounded on random doors, one of which was opened by an old friend, Dominic Phillips.

"He was acting real frantic, and he said someone was trying to get him," Phillips said in an interview with the Journal Sentinel.

Bean, 43, had no history of mental illness, according to his wife. His criminal record included a felony theft conviction as a 19-year-old in 1986 and two misdemeanor charges from the 1990s, for disorderly conduct and drug possession.

Bean occasionally used cocaine, but never to the point that it affected his ability to raise his children or to hold a job, his wife said. A small amount of the drug was found in his system after his death.

Milwaukee Police Officers Philip Gagnon and Matthew Claudio heard Bean shouting for help as they walked their beat. They thought he was most likely mentally ill, yet they did not summon officers who had received Crisis Intervention Training, which teaches skills for dealing with people who have mental illness.

Instead, they took him into custody.

Claudio and Gagnon told internal investigators Bean raised a fist as they approached, so they took him to the ground, according to a summary of the investigation.

"Mr. Bean was handcuffed face down," the summary says. "Mr. Bean vomited and was rolled onto his side. Officer Gagnon stated Mr. Bean was breathing hard but otherwise seemed to be doing well."

Witnesses told the Journal Sentinel that Gagnon and Claudio used force even though Bean did not resist.

"He was not fighting," said Arthur Hayes, 67, who lives nearby. "But they threw him down. They cuffed him."

Phillips, who watched the arrest from his porch, said the officers became aggressive with Bean as he tripped while they were escorting him down the stairs outside Phillips' home, causing them to lose their balance.

"They slammed him to the ground," said Phillips, 40. "They slammed him down, and they handcuffed him."

The officers held Bean down until a supervisor arrived, Hayes said.

"He was telling them he was dying," Hayes recalled. "He said he needed help."

The accounts of Hayes and Phillips do not appear in police reports. Police wanted to talk to Phillips but could not find him, according to the reports. The documents say nothing about whether police attempted to question Hayes, but they did speak to family members.

Most of the neighbors interviewed by police said they did not see anything, according to the reports. Two who did see Bean said he appeared to be mentally or physically disabled. None of the neighbors said he fought with police, although two of them said he was struggling to get away.

Point, who has since been promoted to captain, told the medical examiner's office there was a minor scuffle, according to the medical examiner's report. He didn't mention that officers held Bean facedown.

The length of time officers kept Bean on his stomach could be important in determining why he died.

Since at least 1994, Milwaukee officers have been trained not to restrain people facedown due to the risk of positional asphyxia, which can be fatal.

Positional asphyxia is the inability to breathe due to the position of the body. It can be caused by physical restraint, especially if someone is held facedown and handcuffed, according to experts. The Police Department's standard operating procedures instruct officers to get prisoners off their stomachs as soon they are handcuffed to guard against the condition.

Gagnon told internal investigators Bean was on his stomach for "a couple of minutes" before they turned him onto his side, the summary says.

Claudio said they turned Bean onto his side right away "because of his breathing." Bean was grunting, moaning and pleading with officers not to hurt him, Claudio told a sergeant.

But they didn't call an ambulance.

Different Instructions Given

Three department rules in place at the time gave different instructions about what to do next.

The first rule: Quickly summon medical help for prisoners who need it.

The second rule: Transport a potentially mentally ill prisoner who is not in need of emergency medical services in a squad car.

The third rule: Use a police wagon to transport someone who has displayed violent behavior.

Gagnon and Claudio chose the third option, calling for a wagon to take Bean to the Milwaukee County Mental Health Complex, police records show.

Department policies have been updated in the years since Bean's death, but the new rules still don't give officers clear instructions about what to do in cases like his.

After Derek Williams died in custody in 2011, the first rule was strengthened. Williams died after gasping for air and begging for help in the back of a squad car for nearly eight minutes. The rule change, implemented following a Journal Sentinel investigation, took away officers' discretion and required them to call for medical help immediately if someone in custody complains of trouble breathing, is bleeding profusely or is experiencing moderate to severe pain.

After the in-custody death of John Kriewaldt in 2012, the second rule was changed. Kriewaldt, who was taken into custody for causing a disturbance at a group home for people with mental illness, injured himself by banging his head against the metal support for the plastic window between the front and back seats of a squad car. His heart stopped before paramedics arrived, and he later died at a hospital.

That rule change, which occurred after a Journal Sentinel reporter started asking questions about Kriewaldt's death, requires officers to transport mentally ill people who are uncooperative in a police wagon instead of a squad car.

Even with those changes, nothing dictates which policy should take precedence when police encounter someone such as Bean, who displays both physical and mental symptoms.

When the wagon arrived, Officers Shirley Lewis and Leon Davis shackled Bean's ankles before putting him in the back.

Once inside, Bean "was kicking the doors and said he couldn't breathe," Phillips recalled.

Department rules require at least one officer to sit in the back of a wagon with any prisoner who is violent or combative, "in order to properly monitor the person."

No one rode in the back of the wagon with Bean, both Lewis and Davis admitted. Lewis told internal investigators she watched Bean through a small window between the driver's compartment and the prisoner area. How much she could see is unclear, but she did not notice any distress, the reports say.

Before they had driven half a block, Gagnon, who was walking down the street in the same direction as the vehicle, heard "a banging sound from inside the wagon," according to a summary of the internal investigation.

Only then did the officers pull over to check on Bean. When they did, he was facedown on the floor, and "his breathing had become labored," according to a police report. He vomited at least twice inside the wagon before police called an ambulance.

Gagnon told investigators he and Claudio kept Bean on his left side while they waited for the ambulance. But Fire Department Capt. Kevin Hafemann told police Bean was still facedown and handcuffed when the rescue squad arrived six minutes later. Bean remained in that position until firefighters turned him over, Hafemann said. By then, Bean was unconscious.

Paramedics tried to stabilize Bean for more than 25 minutes, according to Fire Department records.

At the hospital, his heart returned to a normal rhythm only briefly.

He never woke up.

Reached by phone, Claudio and Lewis declined to comment. Point did not respond to a certified letter sent to his home. Gagnon and Davis could not be reached.

Diagnosis Called 'Suspect'

In the early morning hours of Aug. 15, 2010, several hours after Bean's arrest, Point called the medical examiner's office. During the call, he suggested Bean had been suffering from excited delirium, according to the medical examiner's report.

The next day, Poulos, then an assistant medical examiner, conducted the autopsy.

Poulos resigned in 2012 after his investigation into the death of Williams. In that case, Poulos admitted he did not look at a squad video that showed Williams' struggle to breathe or read the police reports. Instead, Poulos relied on a detective's statement that Williams was arrested "without incident" and ruled the death natural. The decision was changed to homicide after a Journal Sentinel investigation revealed police used force while arresting Williams.

During Bean's autopsy, Poulos found more than 20 cuts and bruises on Bean's face, arms, legs, hands and shoulders. Police reports do not offer any explanation as to how the injuries occurred. A Milwaukee police investigator who watched the autopsy downplayed the injuries in his report.

"Dr. Christopher Poulos did conduct an external examination of the victim locating an abrasion to his left shoulder, as well as a scrape or abrasion to his left hand," investigator Michael Braunreiter's report says. "These were very minor injuries and were the only signs of trauma located."

The report does not specify whether the investigator came to that conclusion on his own or if he got inaccurate information from Poulos.

In the official autopsy report, Poulos' conclusion mirrored Point's: excited delirium. The autopsy does not indicate whether Poulos read the police reports.

Reached in Maricopa County, Ariz., where was hired as an assistant medical examiner after leaving Milwaukee, Poulos said he did not recall the details of Bean's case.

Symptoms of excited delirium include aggressive or bizarre behavior, paranoia and high body temperature. Although pathologists cite the syndrome as a cause of death and emergency room doctors have procedures to treat it, excited delirium is not recognized by the American Medical Association or the American Psychological Association. The controversy continues for two reasons: The diagnosis is based on a description of the circumstances surrounding the death rather than anatomical findings; and deaths labeled this way often occur after a confrontation with police.

Deborah Mash, a neurology professor at the University of Miami who has studied excited delirium syndrome for more than 20 years, said it can be caused by drug use, untreated psychiatric problems or extreme stress. Taser use can be a contributing factor, as can genetics, she said. Her lab has developed a postmortem test for a defective brain chemical that she believes puts people at greater risk.

"We train law enforcement to recognize this as a medical emergency. The plan is to get EMS there and to get them to the emergency room," Mash said. "Not every excited delirium patient who gets to the emergency room is going to be saved, but many are now. There's a critical window of time where an emergency room intervention will be successful."

Mash called Bean a "classic" case of the syndrome.

But Werner Spitz, a pathologist and co-author of "Medicolegal Investigation of Death," known as the "medical examiners' Bible," called the diagnosis "suspect."

"People are shying away from that diagnosis more and more," Spitz said. "It's kind of an unproven theory."

Both cocaine and Midazolam, a sedative, were found in Bean's system. Either one of those drugs could have caused Bean's erratic behavior, Spitz said.

The injuries described in the autopsy report should have been investigated further, the pathologist said. The fact that Bean's heart rhythm briefly returned to normal also gave Spitz pause.

"That indicates that there was a situation at play here where there was temporary oxygen deprivation. The cocaine could do it, the struggle, the stress, could do it," he said. "It needs to be investigated to figure out what really went on here."

Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm cleared the officers after receiving the preliminary diagnosis of excited delirium from Poulos, according to a letter Chisholm wrote to Flynn on Aug. 18, 2010.

"I am reluctant to characterize this as a use-of-force or in-custody death because the officers were so clearly engaged in rendering aid to a person in medical distress that the traditional concerns of excessive force or inattentiveness are not present," Chisholm wrote.

He declined to comment on Bean's case.

District Attorney Relies On Police

The district attorney's office does not conduct an independent investigation into every police-involved death in the county because Chisholm does not have a large enough staff, he said in a 2012 interview with the Journal Sentinel.

"I have 10 investigators for a county of one million," Chisholm said. "The ideal thing would be a completely independent agency. The Department of Justice swoops in. But they won't. They don't have the resources."

Chisholm said he proposed a countywide death review system for police custody cases back in 2007, but no one was interested.

As a result, the district attorney relies on police to investigate their own. Chisholm acknowledged witnesses will "not necessarily" tell one police officer they saw another abuse or kill someone. But he said it is "not uncommon" for witnesses of police brutality to cooperate.

In a statement, he added: "When the law enforcement agencies we work with are the focus of an investigation we depend on the skill and independence of our investigators and frequently use state and federal resources to ensure an independent review."

The problems of reluctant witnesses and conflicting statements have been partially overcome by the installation of cameras in Milwaukee police vehicles, Chisholm said in the 2012 interview.

But not every police vehicle has a camera. In fact, just over half of them do. What's more, the cameras aren't always recording.

Cameras activate automatically only if the officer engages the emergency lights or sirens. Police Department rules say officers must turn on the cameras manually during pursuits, traffic stops and any time a citizen is placed in the vehicle. An update after Kriewaldt's death also requires officers to turn on the cameras during roadside field sobriety testing and during field interviews, in which police stop and question people they believe are suspicious.

In at least two in-custody deaths during the five-year period reviewed by the Journal Sentinel, officers didn't turn on the cameras while transporting prisoners, yet were not disciplined.

The Milwaukee Police Department has 335 vehicles in its fleet, but just 180 have cameras, according to Stanmeyer, the police spokesman. A year ago, more than 100 of them weren't working.

The Common Council learned of the broken cameras in the midst of publicity about two high-profile cases captured on video: the death of Williams and the arrest of Jeanine Tracy, who was punched, dragged out of a squad car by the hair and struck in the stomach by Officer Richard Schoen. He has since been fired but is appealing his dismissal in court.

The city spent $900,000 to replace the broken cameras with updated digital models. When the new cameras were installed, reports of failure decreased from about one a day to two or three a month, Flynn's chief of staff, Joel Plant, told the Common Council last spring.

The Police Department has no plans to install cameras in the remaining 151 vehicles, Stanmeyer said. Rather, as the cars age and are replaced, cameras will be installed in the new cars.

In the wagon where Bean lost consciousness, there was no camera.

Search For Accountability

In Milwaukee, the search for accountability often stops with the district attorney's decision.

When someone dies in police custody, law enforcement agencies are supposed to conduct two separate investigations: the first to determine whether any officers broke the law; the second, to figure out whether any department rules were violated.

When a death occurs in the custody of the Police Department, the civilian Fire and Police Commission has the authority to convene yet another review if members or the public disagree with the decisions of the Police Department. Milwaukee's commission is among the most powerful in both the state and the nation. Most commissions may only recommend discipline to the chief, who has the final say. In Milwaukee, the panel has the power to impose discipline independently and to overrule the chief's decisions.

Time and again, both internal investigators and commissioners cite Chisholm's decision against charges when they later clear officers of rule violations.

The fact that a police officer is not criminally charged or is acquitted in court should not be the basis for closing an internal investigation, according to guidelines proposed by the Police Assessment Resource Center, a national law enforcement oversight agency.

"A criminal investigation focuses on whether a crime has been committed and concentrates on the specific actions or the mental state of the accused," the guidelines say. "An administrative investigation of a police officer, on the other hand, should look more broadly at the tactical, strategic, and training implications of a particular incident in conjunction with an examination of whether department policy was violated."

In Bean's case, the Police Department's summary of its internal affairs investigation quotes Chisholm directly, saying: "District Attorney Chisholm stated, 'Mr. Bean appears to have been in such an advanced state of medical peril that, despite the officers' appropriate and professional intervention, they were not likely to have prevented his death.'"

As a result of Williams' death, which occurred a year after Bean's, Flynn created a critical incident review board to evaluate incidents in which citizens are injured, killed or shot by police officers.

The board does not hold individual officers accountable. Rather, it "examines each in-custody death and makes recommendations for policy change when appropriate," according to the department's statement to the Journal Sentinel.

The review board consists of Flynn's top commanders, and they report findings to Flynn and to Fire and Police Commission Executive Director Michael Tobin. According to the standard operating procedure that describes the board, Flynn has the final say on whether changes should be made as a result of each review. Tobin, an attorney and former Milwaukee police officer, has said the commission will settle the issue if a dispute arises between him and the chief. But that is not set out in writing.

As for Bean, Tobin's response to Teresa Bean's complaint is essentially a recap of the exonerations by the other agencies.

"The Milwaukee Medical Examiner ruled your husband's cause of death as Excited Delirium and added that his blood screen revealed cocaine and benzodiazepines in his system," Tobin wrote. "We agree with the results of the Milwaukee Police Department's Professional Performance Division and the Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office."

In an interview, Tobin defended the integrity of the process.

"People may believe that because everyone has ruled the same way, people might have the wrong impression that there was some type of meeting of the minds," he said. "That's not the case. We do an independent review."