A man accused of killing a woman now faces an additional homicide charge after he took police on a car chase, rolled his vehicle, and hit a Tulare bicyclist, according to Visalia police.

While the arrest was made in Tulare, the investigation started days earlier in southeast Visalia.

Tuesday morning, Visalia police were called to a home on Thomas Court near Paradise Avenue for reports of a suspicious circumstance. When they arrived at the home, officers found the body of Heather Sloan, 37.

The department's crime lab was called to the scene just before 9 a.m. Roads were blocked in the area for several hours while police collected evidence.

It's unclear how, but detectives identified Barry Tarrell Dantzler, 30, as the suspect in Sloan's death.

Detectives believe Sloan was killed during a home invasion. Dantzler has multiple felony and misdemeanor convictions dating back to 2011, according to court records.

"We believe they did know each other," Sanchez said. "The cause of death is not being released."

It took several days for detectives to track down Dantzler. Around 7 p.m. on Friday, he was spotted near Motel 6 in Tulare, Visalia Sgt. Celeste Sanchez said.

When officers attempted a traffic stop on Dantzler, he fled.

During the police chase, Dantzler lost control of his vehicle and crashed into a utility pole. His vehicle rolled over and hit a woman riding her bicycle, Sanchez said.

The woman died at the scene. Her name and age weren't released.

Dantzler was arrested and booked into Tulare County Pretrial Facility. He will be arraigned on Tuesday. He faces homicide, home invasion and felony evading charges. He could also be charged in the death of the bicyclist.

Tulare Police Department helped with Friday's investigation, Sanchez said.

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact Detective Martinez at 713-4156 or Visalia Police Department's anonymous tip line at 713-4738.

Sheyanne Romero covers Tulare County public safety, local government and business for the Visalia Times-Delta and Tulare Advance-Register newspapers. Follow her on Twitter @sheyanne_VTD. Get alerts and keep up on all things Tulare County for as little as $1 a month. Subscribe today.