Four siblings whose father died after he was detained by Chula Vista police in March filed two lawsuits Monday, one alleging wrongful death and civil rights violations, the other seeking the names of the officers involved in the encounter.

The newly filed suits come from some of the children of Oral Nunis, including Chula Vista resident and Navy sailor Kimone Nunis. Her father — who owned a small trucking business near Stockton — was visiting her at the time of the encounter, which she witnessed.

During that visit, she said, her father had a panic attack, began to behave strangely and tried to hurt himself. She called 911 for help. Several officers responded and a struggle ensued when they tried to handcuff the 56-year-old Jamaican immigrant.

Advertisement

During the struggle, they placed him in a leg-restraining device known as the WRAP and put a spit hood over his head. At some point, Nunis became unresponsive. He died at a hospital.

Joining Kimone Nunis in the suit are her adult brothers, Oral W. Nunis and Andre Nunis, and adult sister Ludecea Nunis.

Asked for comment on the new suits, Chula Vista city officials issued a statement that the city “understands and shares the public’s and the family’s desire to have all of their questions answered about this incident. However, it is premature and inappropriate to come to any conclusions at this time.”

The city said the county Medical Examiner’s Office has not yet determined Nunis’ cause of death. “Because of this, and now the threat of litigation,” the city said, police and city officials will refrain from further comment.

The two suits filed by the siblings Monday are in different legal venues — one in U.S. District Court in San Diego, and the other in San Diego Superior Court.

The federal suit focuses on the incident, and alleges that at least three officers were on top of the small-framed and unarmed man while trying to subdue him on March 13.

The suit states that while the daughter called 911 for help, “the help came and killed Mr. Nunis.”

Kimone Nunis, 29, told the Union-Tribune that her father was in the throes of a panic attack, and tried to hurl himself out of a window. She called 911, and she and her boyfriend were able to calm him as they waited for help. She said that when police arrived, she was sitting on the floor with her father, holding his hand, and the scene was calm

The chaos started, she said, when officers wanted to put him in handcuffs. He balked and ran outside. She said she watched in horror as police wrestled with her father.

“I just fell to the ground and I was screaming,” she said.

She said she grew more alarmed when the struggle ended. She said that when they sat her father up — he was in the leg restraint at that point — his head drooped and rolled around on his neck, and he appeared unresponsive.

Her attorney, DeWitt Lacy, said police “did not take the time to properly evaluate the situation.”

The second suit, filed in state court, is seeking to force police to turn over the names of the officers involved in the incident.

The new legal action is not associated with a wrongful suit filed two weeks ago by other members of the family. In late November, Nunis’ wife and some of his other children sued Chula Vista, saying the officers’ use of force directly led to his death.