A rape suspect took his own life Wednesday morning when Pennsylvania State Police attempted to serve a felony arrest warrant, according to the Lancaster County District Attorney’s office.The district attorney’s office said troopers went to 39-year-old Charles Musser’s home on Sutton Place in Manheim Township and he refused to open the door.Musser went to a bedroom and fired a shot, the district attorney’s office said. When troopers forced entry into the home, Musser was found dead, according to officials.Prosecutors said Musser allegedly raped two women he did not know in 2000 and 2001.The district attorney's office said Musser was tied to the attacks, in part, by DNA evidence that was recently pulled from his discarded trash.State police released the following statement:"On June 3, 2020, approximately 07:11 am, Troopers from the Pennsylvania State Police Lancaster Station arrived at a residence on Sutton Place, Manheim Township, Lancaster County to serve a felony arrest warrant. When Troopers knocked on the door to the residence, the defendant came to the door but refused to open it. After learning there were troopers at the door, the defendant retreated further into the residence."Troopers established a perimeter and began to notify nearby neighbors to shelter in place. The Pennsylvania State Police Special Emergency Response Team responded, made entry to residence, and located the subject deceased of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound."PSP was assisted by Manheim Township Police Department, Manheim EMS, and the Lancaster County Coroner’s Office."No Troopers or municipal police officers were injured during the incident. After the defendant was located deceased, residents were advised they were no longer being requested to shelter in place."

A rape suspect took his own life Wednesday morning when Pennsylvania State Police attempted to serve a felony arrest warrant, according to the Lancaster County District Attorney’s office.

Advertisement

The district attorney’s office said troopers went to 39-year-old Charles Musser’s home on Sutton Place in Manheim Township and he refused to open the door.

Musser went to a bedroom and fired a shot, the district attorney’s office said. When troopers forced entry into the home, Musser was found dead, according to officials.

Prosecutors said Musser allegedly raped two women he did not know in 2000 and 2001.

The district attorney's office said Musser was tied to the attacks, in part, by DNA evidence that was recently pulled from his discarded trash.



State police released the following statement:

"On June 3, 2020, approximately 07:11 am, Troopers from the Pennsylvania State Police Lancaster Station arrived at a residence on Sutton Place, Manheim Township, Lancaster County to serve a felony arrest warrant. When Troopers knocked on the door to the residence, the defendant came to the door but refused to open it. After learning there were troopers at the door, the defendant retreated further into the residence.

"Troopers established a perimeter and began to notify nearby neighbors to shelter in place. The Pennsylvania State Police Special Emergency Response Team responded, made entry to residence, and located the subject deceased of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

"PSP was assisted by Manheim Township Police Department, Manheim EMS, and the Lancaster County Coroner’s Office.

"No Troopers or municipal police officers were injured during the incident. After the defendant was located deceased, residents were advised they were no longer being requested to shelter in place."

