A man who was shot by a Corpus Christi police officer after a struggle for a gun has been identified.

The Nueces County Medical Examiner's Office identified the man as Eric A. Galvan, 25. Officials with the examiner's office said Galvan had multiple gunshot wounds to the body.

On Wednesday, police arrived in the 2000 block of Rockford Drive to follow up on a homicide investigation.

Police Chief Mike Markle said detectives and at least one uniformed officer were at the resident to speak to a person of interest in a homicide.

Police said detectives were following up on a homicide from last week on Bloomington Street. In that case, 21-year-old Jose Aguilar was fatally shot after an argument. Witnesses told police the suspect had a distinct scar across the bridge of his nose.

According to a news release from the Nueces County District Attorney’s Office, the person of interest had existing warrants.

Markle said the man's grandparents, who own the home, allowed officers inside.

“Once inside the bedroom, officers viewed the suspect lying face down on the bed with his hands hidden under a pillow," the release reads.

Officers began speaking to the man before seeing a gun in his hand. Officers immediately attempted to disarm him, the release states.

“A struggle for the gun ensued while the subject continuously tried to turn the weapon on the officers,” the release reads.

People in the home told authorities the officers repeatedly demanded the man let go of the gun.

The man was also stunned with a stun gun, but continued to struggle over the gun before firing several rounds.

“After attempts at disarming the subject were unsuccessful, officers were forced to return fire,” the release reads. “The individual was shot by one of the officers and may have suffered a self-inflicted gunshot wound as a result of the struggle over the gun.”

Galvan was taken to a hospital, where he later died from his injuries.

"Unfortunately, the circumstances here became very violent, very quickly and officers were forced to return fire," Markle said in a police briefing to the media.

Videos and case reports of the incident will be submitted to the Nueces County Grand Jury. In the release, District Attorney Mark Gonzalez said the office recognizes the need to be transparent and diligent in providing as much information as possible.

The officers involved were placed on administrative leave pending the investigation, per department policy. The department's practice is to identify officers involved in shootings. Those names were not released Wednesday evening.

The department was expected to release more information about the incident Thursday or Friday.

Alexandria Rodriguez covers breaking news and crime in South Texas. Support local news by checking out our subscription options and special offers at Caller.com/subscribe