The final autopsy report is in for Sarah Grossman, a 22-year-old Springboro, Ohio, resident who died on May 30 after she attended a Columbus protest.

In May, the coroner's office said her final autopsy report could take up to eight weeks to complete and they would attempt to determine whether her causes of death had anything to do with chemical irritants used by police at the protest that she might have been exposed to.

Montgomery County Coroner Dr. Kent E. Harshbarger today released her cause of death as "coronary artery dissection due to Ehler's-Danlos Syndrome." The death has been ruled natural.

[ Subscribe now for unlimited access to Cincinnati.com ]

The coroner's office also released a statement issued by the Grossman family in regard to the autopsy report released today.

"The autopsy by the Montgomery County Coroner on the death of 22-year-old Sarah Grossman has been completed and determined she suffered a coronary artery dissection due to a previously undiagnosed genetic variant of Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome," the statement said.

The statement said Grossman graduated cum laude on May 3 from Ohio State University with a bachelor's degree in environment and natural resources and honors research distinction in environment, economy, development and sustainability. She was a 2016 graduate of Springboro High School.

Following her death, a number of social media reports circulated saying she died as a result of being sprayed with pepper spray or other chemical irritants during Columbus protests sparked by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Shortly after her death, her family said there was no evidence pepper spray caused her death.

According to the Elhers-Danlos Society, Ehlers-Danlos syndromes are a group of connective tissue disorders that can be inherited and can affect the body in a variety of ways. "They are generally characterized by joint hypermobility (joints that stretch further than normal), skin hyperextensibility (skin that can be stretched further than normal), and tissue fragility," according to the group's website. Some can affect the heart and vascular system.

In her obituary, her family said she was kind, and had a unique spirit and unwavering dedication to her convictions. "Sarah was a fierce but compassionate supporter of environmental issues and social justice," her family wrote.

She was planning to study Spanish at the Universidad de Belgrano in Buenos Aires, Argentina, the obituary said.

Grossman is survived by her parents, Todd and Christi Grossman, and sister Jessa Grossman, of Springboro, as well as her grandparents and many aunts, uncles and cousins, according to her obituary.

"Those who knew her will understand what a beautiful soul the world has lost," her obituary said. "She lived a short but full life."