The death of a 27-year-old man who showed up at Paterson Police headquarters pleading for help and then died in the hospital two days later was a medical event and not the result of police use of force, the Passaic County Prosecutor’s Office announced Monday.

Jameek Lowery, of Paterson, died from “cardiac arrest during active psychosis while under the influence of acute n-ethyl pentylone," commonly known as bath salts, and his death was ruled accidental by State of New Jersey Northern Regional Medical Examiner’s Office, prosecutors said.

On Jan. 5, around 2:45 a.m., Lowery called 911 for help after he said he took ecstasy and was paranoid and was taken to St. Joseph’s Medical Center, where he was admitted, but was escorted from the hospital at 3:25 a.m. by security personnel after “behaving erratically," officials said.

He then got into a cab with an “acquaintance” to be taken home, but when the cab driver stopped at a red light he got out of the car through a window and ran in the direction of Paterson Police Headquarters, authorities said

He called 911 again at 3:42 a.m. and said that “someone was trying to kill him in the area of Broadway and Memorial Drive,” before he walked barefoot into Paterson police headquarters three minutes later while filming a Facebook Live video, according to the release.

Once there, he asked officers for help, and repeatedly begged them not to shoot him.

“During this video, Mr. Lowery made statements fearing that he would be killed by police," and he also called 911 again, the release stated.

Posted by Meek Lowery on Saturday, January 5, 2019

Police the called an ambulance and when they tried to get him into it, he “became physically combative by striking, kicking, and/or spitting on the Paterson Police Officers,” prosecutors said.

The officers used compliance holds to try to strap him into the gurney, but they “failed to restrain him” and after he continued to be “physically combative” toward the officers, they “struck him several times with their fists to gain control and secure his wrists” before handcuffing him to gurney, officials said.

The ambulance left the department shortly after 4 a.m. and arrived at St. Joseph’s within minutes and at that time, Lowery “lost consciousness and required resuscitation by medical personnel at the hospital,” the release stated.

After two days of hospitalization, Mr. Lowery did not regain consciousness; he was pronounced deceased in the early morning hours of January 7, 2019.

Lowery never regained consciousness and died at the hospital less than 48 hours later on Jan. 7, but family raised concerns in social media and circulated a picture of Lowery laying in a hospital bed with a broken cheekbone, a fractured eye socket and several cuts and bruises.

Broken eye socket.Broken cheek bone.Stitches, bruises & scratches.

Meek Lowery live streamed this video while at the Paterson Police Department and was physically uninjured. Yet, when they finally call the ambulance for him as he requested he ends up like this?#JUSTICEFORMEEK pic.twitter.com/x5djX5t1Bo — NamedNia (@nitaughtyou) January 8, 2019

“The Medical Examiner determined that the ingestion of the bath salts by Mr. Lowery coupled with pre-existing medical conditions triggered an adverse physical reaction including multiple organ failure and cardiac arrest that ultimately led to his death,” the prosecutor’s office said. “This reaction was occurring during the police and medical personnel’s interaction with Mr. Lowery and was independent of and unrelated to any force utilized.”

Lowery had been suffering from bacterial meningitis, a sometimes fatal infection, for a long time authorities said in January.

Paterson’s mayor, police director and several police officers and firefighters who were exposed to Lowery were summoned to St. Joseph’s and given doses of an antibiotic as a precaution, Paterson Police Director Jerry Speziale told NJ Advance Media at the time

Prosecutors said said an examination of his body did not show any “recent facial or bodily fractures.”

The prosecutor’s office continued to investigate Lowery’s death after they received medical examiner’s report in April but they said they did not find any “evidence of correlation between the actions of the responding officers or firefighters, including any force used by the officers, and Mr. Lowery’s death.”

There will be no criminal charges sought against any police officer or firefighter involved in this incident “at this time," the release stated. “This matter will now be referred to determine if any administrative action or training should be undertaken as a result of the manner in which this incident was handled.”

Protesters gather for justice in the death of Paterson resident Jameek Lowery during a rally at City Hall on Friday, Jan. 11, 2019. Lowery died two days after appearing on Facebook Live where he claimed that people were trying to kill him and asking the Paterson Police Department for help. 1/11/2019

Jameek Lowery’s death became a huge topic of controversy in the Paterson community in January as multiple protests were held at city hall and officers arrested many Black Lives Matter activists.

On Jan. 16, two of Lowery’s family members were arrested as residents gathered to question police about an arrest during a traffic stop. Lowery’s mother was maced at the incident.

Chris Sheldon may be reached at csheldon@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @chrisrsheldon Find NJ.com on Facebook.

Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips

Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters.