LAS CRUCES — A friend remembers Michael Seltzer, the 81-year-old man shot by Las Cruces Police Monday, June 8, as a quiet, kindhearted man.

Seltzer was involved in a shooting Monday morning on North Tornillo Street which led to LCPD calling in their SWAT team, and ultimately the death of Seltzer by police.

James Davidson, a friend and neighbor of Seltzer, said he had met the older man more than a year ago and got to know him well. He said Seltzer didn’t have any family in town and mainly kept to himself. He enjoyed spending time on the computer, reading books and watching older movies.

“He liked to read things like ‘Lord of the Flies’ or like some of the old plays that Shakespeare had written that they had put as screenplays and stuff like that,” Davidson said. “The last movie that I watched with him was a movie called ‘Outbreak.’”

Davidson said he talked with his friend every day, either in person or over a two-way radio Davidson got them so they could check in on each other.

“It’s kind of funny actually. One day I had actually fallen and hit my face on the coffee table, and he was worried about me. So, I sent him a two-way radio so he could check on me,” Davidson said. “I just left it there with him so that he could get ahold of me anytime that he needed to. As a matter of fact, it’s still there in his apartment.”

MORE:Police identify 81-year-old man killed in Monday SWAT callout

Davidson said he was the one who called police Monday morning for help when his friend was acting out of character.

“He went to the bank on his little scooter that he has. He closed out his account and got a cashier’s check, and on the way home the cashier’s check blew away in the wind,” Davidson said. “He felt like he had lost everything.”

Davidson said he tried to tell Seltzer that they could fix what had happened, but he said Seltzer felt he had to resort to “what he was choosing as a last option.”

Follow our award-winning local coverage. Subscribe to the Sun-News today.

According to a press release from LCPD, police responded to a report of an older man with “suicidal ideations” on Monday around 12 p.m. They attempted to communicate with Seltzer but were unsuccessful. According to police, Seltzer fired at least one round at police, hitting a vehicle, which resulted in the call for the SWAT team.

Officers said they tried to communicate with Seltzer, who was in his home, and convince him to put his .38 caliber revolver down. At around 3 p.m., officers said Seltzer came out of his home with his gun “in a threatening manner.” Three officers discharged their weapons and at least one round hit Seltzer. No officers were injured in the incident, but Seltzer was pronounced dead at the scene.

MORE:81-year-old fatally shot by Las Cruces police after first firing at officers

The LCPD officers who discharged their weapons were put on standard administrative leave while the Officer-Involved Incident Task Force investigates the shooting.

Davidson said he asked police to handle the situation with his friend delicately when he called 911, but he said they did not.

“They treated him like he were some sort of bank robber or something instead,” Davidson said. “And because of that, an 81-year-old kindhearted man is dead.”

Leah Romero is a fellow with the New Mexico Local News Fund and can be reached at lromero@lcsun-news.com or @rromero_leah on Twitter.