Ford County deputy killed

Dodge City — A Ford County sheriff’s deputy and a Spearville woman were killed Tuesday morning after colliding on U.S. 50 south of Spearville in southwest Kansas.

The Kansas Highway Patrol said Wilma J. Worthey, 60, of Spearville, was eastbound at 9:20 a.m. when her car blew a left rear tire, causing her to lose control of the vehicle. She crossed the center line and collided head-on with a westbound pickup truck driven by sheriff’s deputy Bret D. Tepe, 37, also of Spearville.

A passenger in Worthey’s car, 30-year-old David E. Worthey, of Spearville, suffered serious injuries and was taken to a Dodge City hospital. Police records on the crash did not specify a relation between the Wortheys.

The patrol said no one involved in the crash was wearing a seat belt. Tepe was on duty but driving his personal vehicle, authorities said.

Lawrence residents take jobs with lawmaker

Topeka — Two Lawrence residents have accepted top positions in Senate Democratic Leader Anthony Hensley’s office.

Hensley’s district includes primarily Topeka and part of Douglas County.

Tim Graham, who has worked in the office for three years, will be Hensley’s chief of staff, and Craig Grant will be communications director.

Grant recently retired from the Kansas National Education Assn., where he was the chief lobbyist for more than 20 years.

Semitrailer overturns, injuring 1 on U.S. 24

An Alabama man was injured late Monday night when the semitrailer he was driving overturned on U.S. Highway 24 northwest of Lawrence in Jefferson County.

The driver, identified by the Kansas Highway Patrol as Stanley E. Franckowiak, Hartselle, Ala., was taken by ambulance to Lawrence Memorial Hospital. He was treated and released, a hospital spokeswoman said.

The accident occurred about 11:30 p.m. a mile north of the Douglas County line when the westbound tractor-trailer failed to make a curve, the Kansas Highway Patrol said.

The trailer rig wasn’t removed from the scene until Tuesday afternoon. The highway was blocked for a time while the trailer was removed.