Two deejays coming home from late night gigs died in a fiery car crash shortly after 4 a.m. Sunday.

OPA-LOCKA, Fla. – Two deejays coming home from late night gigs died in a fiery car crash shortly after 4 a.m. Sunday.

It happened along at NW 135th Street and NW 22nd Avenue.

Family members said the two had been out at events. They were identified as Edmon McCoy, known as DJ Boogie, and Robinson Lazard, known as DJ Styles.

“I’m just lost, I lost my one and only son,” said Theresa Christian, Edmon McCoy’s mother. “I lost him, and I’m just lost.”

A witness said she heard the impact and then saw the aftermath of the crash.

“A big crash. Real big. When I went over, the car was on fire. They hit so hard, there were pieces of the car everywhere. It was bad, really bad.”

Local 10 learned around the same time of the impact, Miami-Dade police was tailing a different car, a white Dodge Charger, whose driver refused to stop. The driver who was fleeing the officers apparently lost control of the car.

The silver Mustang the two deejays were traveling in was not tied to the initial police incident. They were most likely innocent victims who became involved when the Charger smashed into them, causing at least one to be ejected from the vehicle.

“I think they did two or three parties that day, that night,” said Christian.

Miami-Dade police Detective Alvaro Zabaleta said all three of the people involved in the crash were taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital’s Ryder Trauma Center in critical condition. Both deejays ultimately died from their injuries.

A makeshift memorial filled with flowers and candles is growing as the victims’ heartbroken friends and family members grieve.

“I’m tore apart. I’m hurting. Especially, I just talked to Boogie a day before,” Albert Avant, who was friends with the victims, told Local 10 News reporter Madeleine Wright. “When God calls, you don’t know when, what time or where, you know. And it was just time.”

Avant, who has known the victims for years, came to the scene of the crash Monday morning to pay his respects.

“They’ll always be remembered as good people and good deejays who loved music,” he said.

A GoFundMe page has been started to help with funeral costs for Edmon McCoy Jr.