Police say the suspect fired first and was killed when troopers shot back. The injured trooper is expected to survive.

Example video title will go here for this video

JASPER COUNTY, Ind — A police pursuit that started with a carjacking near Remington and ended in a shootout north of Lowell left the suspect dead and a state trooper injured Friday night, according to Indiana State Police.

Neither man has been identified.

The chase started shortly after 10:15 p.m. when the Jasper County Sheriff’s Department received a call of an armed robbery/carjacking at the Pilot Truck Stop at exit 201 on Interstate 65 near Remington. The victim said a man pointed a gun at the victim’s head while stealing a black Mitsubishi.

A Demotte police officer spotted the stolen vehicle heading north on I-65 near the 230 mile-marker, but lost sight of the car before making a stop. Two state troopers picked it up about 15 miles north and also tried to make a traffic stop, but the driver kept going, prompting the chase.

After getting a flat tire, the driver slowed, got out and immediately started shooting, according to an account shared by State Police.

One of the troopers was shot, and the suspect continued to exchange gunfire with the troopers until he was struck.

A trooper's attempts to provide first aid to the suspect were unsuccessful, and the man was pronounced dead at the scene by a Lake County coroner.

The injured trooper was taken to a Crown Point hospital for treatment of what police describe as an injury to his lower body that was not considered life-threatening.

Investigation leads to second car possibly involved

Investigators are asking for the public's help in locating a second person that was seen at the Pilot truck stop. The person is described as a black male, possibly driving a silver Toyota Corolla.

Prior to arriving at the truck stop, police say the vehicle was seen entering the truck stop with its hazard lights on. The Toyota was seen parked next to the black Mitsubishi that was stolen and left at the same time as the stolen Mitsubishi.

The Toyota was located a short time later abandoned on I-65.

If anyone has any information on this individual’s identity or saw the vehicle on I-65, they should contact Detective Smith or Detective Rector at the Lafayette State Police Post at 765-567-2125.