This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

KENNARD, Ind. — Indiana State Police are investigating after a SWAT situation in Henry County ended with an officer-involved shooting.

The Indiana State Police said the Henry County Sheriff’s Department asked them to investigate the shooting.

The shooting happened after deupties with the Henry County Sheriff’s Department responded to a home in the 300 block of South Main Street shortly after 1 p.m. Wednesday on a reported domestic situation

When deputies arrived, they found a woman outside with injuries consistent with strangulation and battery. The department said the suspect, Troy Willey, was inside the home at the time. Officers were informed that he was probably armed.

The Indiana State Police said negotiators were called to the scene and were in contact with Willey for several hours, but he didn’t leave.

Around 5:30 p.m., the department said SWAT members breached the home and encountered Willey, who they say was armed with a revolver. While they ordered him to drop the gun, officers say he refused so officers shot him.

Willey was treated at the scene, but the department said Willey was pronounced dead at the scene.

As of the time of this report, the Indiana State Police are continuing their investigation. When their investigation is completed it will be handed over to the Henry County Prosecutor for his review.

UPDATE: EMA reports that the SWAT situation is now under control as of 5:52 p.m. Wednesday. Officials said the investigation will be ongoing for some time and are asking the public to give law enforcement room to work.

KENNARD, Ind. — Police are advising of a SWAT situation in Henry County.

Officials said there is a hostage situation on South Main Street in Kennard, and to please protect in place if in the area and do not enter the area at this time.

The Henry County SWAT team and the Indiana State Police SWAT team were reportedly heading to Kennard, Indiana, located along S.R. 234, around 1:56 p.m. Wednesday.

Two sources told FOX59 a barricaded suspect inside a home with reports of weapons inside. There were no known hostages at the time of the report.

Police said one woman who was battered was able to get out of the home.