Lake County Sheriff's Office investigators and members of the Lake County Major Crimes Task Force investigate a shooting in Beach Park on June 16, 2020. (Rob Dicker / Chicago Tribune)

Two law enforcement officers who alleged they were fired upon before killing a Black Beach Park man while trying to arrest him on a murder warrant in June acted “reasonably and appropriately,” Lake County State’s Attorney Michael Nerheim said Friday.

Nerheim announced his findings as he concluded a review of the deadly force used by the two white law enforcement officers as they attempted to arrest Brandon Gardner, who was killed in an exchange of gunfire June 16 in Beach Park by a deputy from the Lake County Sheriff’s Office and one from the McHenry County’s Sheriff’s Office.

Advertisement

The deputies were working as members of a U.S. Marshal’s Fugitive Task Force.

According to authorities, the officers had received reports that Gardner, who was wanted for first-degree murder, had been located at an address in the 38500 block of Green Bay Road in Beach Park, and was in a Chevrolet Traverse parked in the driveway.

Advertisement

As the two officers approached the car, a man later identified as Gardner suddenly exited the car holding a black and silver handgun and began firing at them. The officers, who were armed with rifles, each returned fire and Gardner fell to the ground.

A third officer who was on scene gave medical aid until paramedics arrived. Gardner was later pronounced dead and an autopsy showed he had been shot once in the thigh and once in the chest.

Police recovered two pistols in Gardner’s possession, and four spent shell casings, according to authorities.

Gardner, Nerheim noted, knew that he was wanted for the December 2018 killing of Nicholas Robinson, 18, of Zion. At the time of the shooting, four other men had been charged with Robinson’s killing and were in custody, police said.

Gardner had texted friends that “it’s gon b a bang out” if police tried to arrest him, and that he would not go without a fight, Nerheim said.

Based on the circumstances and after reviewing an investigation, he said, the officers acted reasonably and appropriately.

“The members who serve on this task force deal with some of the most treacherous situations a police officer can ever face and apprehend the most dangerous of offenders,” Nerheim said in a statement. “It was the quick reaction and training of these officers -- along with a good bit of luck -- that prevented this tragic situation from becoming even worse.”

Additional details from the investigation can be reviewed at the State’s Attorney’s Office website: https://www.lakecountyil.gov/1901/News