SHARE

By Kristine Gill of the Naples Daily News

Collier County Sheriff's deputies involved in the 2014 detainment of a man who later died in custody have been cleared of wrongdoing in an internal affairs investigation report.

Lonnie Mostiller was detained March 4, 2014 following a bizarre incident in which he dove through the front window of a house in East Naples.

Mostiller, 20, knocked on the door of an East Naples couple's home that night, shouting "help me" and "they're after me" before diving through the window. Mostiller climbed back out of the window then went to another home across the street on Lakewood Boulevard.

Deputies found him sprawled out at the front door of the home, his face bleeding. They held him for possible involvement in a burglary while they had him treated for his injuries.

Mostiller was taken by ambulance to NCH Downtown where he was pronounced dead at 11:30 p.m. the same night.

An autopsy report released in June of 2015 showed Mostiller died as a result of methylene and cocaine toxicity.

The internal affairs investigation into his death states all in-custody deaths are investigated under the Collier County Sheriff's Office policy. The findings were released in January.

The report shows Mostiller was acting strange March 4, 2014 when deputies arrived in response to reports of a possible burglary. He was irate and yelling for help, according to one deputy.

Mostiller was resisting deputies, so officers used arm and leg restraints on him so EMS could treat him. Even after he was handcuffed, reports show Mostiller continued to resist by bracing and tensing in an effort to move away from the EMS workers.

When deputies later arrived at the hospital to question Mostiller, they learned he had died.

Friends and witnesses later told deputies that Mostiller had been using cocaine for three days straight when he broke into the couple's window before his death. Civilian witnesses and EMS workers said deputies did not use excessive force in handcuffing Mostiller.

All deputies involved in his detainment were exonerated as a result of the internal investigation.

Cocaine is known to cause overdose deaths, said Nancy Dauphinais, clinical director of Crossroads Substance Abuse Services at the David Lawrence Center.

Cocaine use can lead to tremors, cardiac arrest, stroke and respiratory failure, Dauphinais said.

Methylene is a type of drug more closely related to bath salts, or other synthetics known for causing erratic behavior, Dauphinais said. Side effects include hallucinations and panic attacks.

Both drugs combined can cause erratic behavior and ultimately death in certain quantities, Dauphinais said.