CATAWBA COUNTY, N.C. (WBTV) - A man was killed in an officer-involved shooting while U.S. Marshals attempted to serve warrants in Catawba County Thursday, according to officials.

The incident happened around 10:10 a.m. on Saddleview Court, which is off of Rocking Horse Road in Maiden. Officials say U.S. Marshals were serving warrants when the suspect, later identified as 35-year-old Buddy Edward Weeks, pulled a weapon on the officers.

Investigators say Weeks was wanted on warrants for robbery with a dangerous weapon, two counts of larceny of a motor vehicle, felony breaking or entering, larceny of a firearm, possession of a stolen firearm and felonious possession of stolen goods.

According to the Catawba County Sheriff’s Office, Weeks was “reportedly armed and was making statements that he intended to harm law enforcement if any attempts were made to apprehend him.”

When Marhals first went into the home, they could not find Weeks. Instead, they found Adam Cooper and his girlfriend Melanie Paugh.

“We heard yelling,” said Paugh, “and then they busted on in.”

Their hands were zip tied and both were led quickly away from the home. After authorities were able to verify who they were, the zip ties were cut and they were freed.

Their two pit bulls were still inside the home, they said, but they were not allowed to go in to get them.

An hour later, after search warrants were obtained, agents resumed their search for Weeks,

Catawba Sheriff’s Captain Aaron Turk says “gas munitions” were used to try to flush Weeks out of a crawlspace. Turk says Weeks did come out with a handgun and a knife and threatened officers and then ran into the house. Minutes later, Turk says Weeks came back out with a rifle and threatened officers.

While deputies with the Sheriff’s Office and U.S. Marshals were searching the property for Weeks, officials said, he came out from the home’s crawl space with a handgun and a knife.

Officers gave commands for Weeks to drop the weapons, but say he went into the home instead. The sheriff’s office said Weeks came out of the home a short time later with a rifle, and again ignored commands to disarm and surrender. That’s when the shooting happened.

Authorities have not said how many shots were fired but Cooper, who was 100 yards away, says he heard “probably eight to 10 shots.”

“Our sentiments are with the family of Buddy Weeks,” Sheriff Brown said. “Our team did everything possible to encourage Buddy to surrender. Buddy’s choices forced the Deputy Marshal to defend himself and all of the law enforcement officers present.”

Officials said the U.S. Marshal who was involved in the shooting was not injured. The SBI is looking into the incident. A report will be filed with the District Attorney’s office.

Copyright 2020 WBTV. All rights reserved.