March 31, 2011

Collier County Sheriff’s Cpl. Jesse Todd struck and killed Andrew Rakes, 21, after Rakes turned his Chevrolet Impala into Todd’s path.

Todd was driving over 100 mph down Santa Barbara Boulevard during a burglary pursuit. He was cited for failure to use “due regard” in the crash, but a judge later tossed the ticket. It was Todd’s second on-duty fatal crash (he hit and killed a heavily-intoxicated Felix Beltran in 2007 after Beltran turned in front of him on U.S. 41 East).

Todd was stripped of his law enforcement credentials and fired. However, he appealed and Sheriff Kevin Rambosk agreed to hire him as a jail technician for a probationary period of one year. Todd remains employed by the Sheriff’s Office.

August 13, 2011

Marco Island Police Officer Ed d’Allesandro was driving 80 mph in a 35 mph zone when he struck a car driven by Pat Stoye, 80, a volunteer victim advocate for the department who was seriously injured.

Before the crash, d’Allesandro had been responding to a hit-and-run call, but was called off two to three minutes before he hit Stoye. A judge found him guilty of careless driving for speeding without his lights and siren, revoked his license and fined him $500.

He was fired, but later reached a settlement with the department that allowed him to officially retire and return as an unpaid reserve officer and trainer.

July 13, 2012

Collier County Sheriff’s Lt. George Welch was driving a new agency-issued Ford F-150 north on U.S. 41 North when reports say he dropped his cellphone, ran a red light at Fourth Avenue North and crashed into Diana Aragon’s Audi.

Aragon was injured in the wreck. She said she couldn’t work at the family’s jewelry store for nearly a year and was in physical therapy for 2 1/2 years. Welch was cited for failure to stop at a steady red signal and received a letter of warning from the Sheriff’s Office.

Feb. 15, 2013

Florida Highway Patrol Trooper Gustavo Reyes was distracted by his in-car laptop when he crashed his unmarked patrol car into 1993 Jeep Grand Cherokee just north of Daniels Parkway on Interstate 75. The Jeep overturned, ejecting its driver, Christopher McClure, and his wife Crystal McClure.

The couple’s unborn baby was killed. The crash knocked out Crystal McClure’s teeth, punctured her lungs, fractured her hip socket, and crushed her ankles and pelvis.

A judge found Reyes guilty of careless driving, suspended his license for six months and fined him more than $1,100. He was suspended from work for six weeks, and remains employed by the FHP.

Feb. 26, 2013

Lee County ambulance driver Harris Reid Berenson was distracted and “inattentive” when he ran a stop sign at Veronica S. Shoemaker Boulevard and Canal Street, according to reports.

He struck a Buick SUV driven by Fort Myers resident Kristina Childs. She was transported to Lee Memorial Hospital for an emergency C-section, but her baby died.

Berenson was placed on leave, pleaded no contest to a careless driving charge and resigned. Lee County paid out $293,603 to the victims of the crash.

March 3, 2013

Lee County Deputy Roberto Torres struck a 2003 Cadillac that turned in front of him on Palm Beach Boulevard. The driver of the Cadillac, John Steffen, 84, and his wife, Marilyn, 77, were killed in the crash.

A Florida Highway Patrol crash investigation absolved Torres of responsibility for the crash, saying Steffen had violated his right of way and that Torres had his lights and sirens activated at the time, according to media reports.

August 22, 2014

Lee County Sheriff’s Cpl. Douglas Hood struck and killed 15-year-old Austin Dukette just after 6 a.m. on Kismet Parkway in Cape Coral. Dukette was riding his bike to school.

An initial crash report lists Hood as “not distracted,” however Cape Coral police investigation later said he was distracted while he adjusted the brightness of his in-car computer screen. Hood denied the allegation during a Sheriff’s Office internal investigation, and said he didn’t know how his statements to Cape police had been misconstrued.

A judge ruled there was not enough evidence to find Hood guilty of failing to maintain his lane of travel during the crash, meaning Hood paid no fines and kept his driver’s license. The case is now pending in civil court.