4792484

Working the graveyard shift at a Bonita Springs hotel, Craig Stephen Spitz didn't spend a lot of time with the guy who relieved him at 7 a.m.

But when a few disagreements surfaced between the two, management tried to resolve them. Spitz was later fired, a hotel official said, and the former co-workers likely didn't see each other in the next 18 to 20 months.

Until Sunday, deputies say. Spitz, 42, was identified as the gunman who shot his co-worker at The Inn at the Springs, fled the scene and was then fatally shot by deputies after a pursuit. Spitz turned his gun on deputies, according to the Lee County Sheriff's Office.

The co-worker, who has not been named, survived being shot twice, according to Barry Trice, vice president of Guest Services, the company that manages The Inn.

'He is coherent and talking,' Trice said.

What occurred between the men remains unclear, but accounts offered by Trice, as well as Spitz's mother, suggest a suspect still angered over losing his job, struggling to pay his bills and coping with mental illness.

Margaret Spitz said her son, a former military sharpshooter, was depressed.

'He had no money, and he had creditors knocking at his door,' she said.

He also suffered from bipolar disorder, she said, and he was having trouble filling a prescription for medication.

The Spitzes live on Isabella Drive, in east Bonita Springs. Deputies say Craig Spitz was returning home around 2 a.m. when he stumbled upon deputies at his house, asking for him. A brief chase ensued, during which Spitz was forced into a ditch off nearby Morton Avenue, near the intersection with Sunset Strip.

As deputies approached to make the arrest, Spitz pulled a gun, the agency reported, and deputies opened fire.

No officers were injured in the shooting, and four unnamed deputies have since been placed on administrative leave with pay, according to the agency. The Lee County Sheriff's Office's Major Crime Unit will likely investigate the shooting, as it assumes all deputy-involved shootings.

On Monday, crime scene technicians could be seen removing Spitz's body from the driver's seat of the car. The nose of the vehicle was pointed down in the ditch, and the car's back end was angled upward. The driver's side window appeared punctured and shattered.

According to Trice, at The Inn, Spitz shot the victim twice shortly after 10 p.m. on Sunday night. One bullet went through his torso, Trice believes, and another lodged in the back of the man's neck.

The shooting occurred by the swimming pool, about 40 feet from the back office, Trice said. No guests were nearby, he added, and no money was taken from the office. The victim identifed Spitz as the gunman, but other details were unclear.

'When EMS came he was able to identify Mr. Spitz,' Trice said. 'But that's all he said. He didn't say anything that led us to believe that they had any contact.'

Soon after, deputies were headed to the suspect's house.

Spitz had been fired from the hotel 18 to 20 months earlier for reasons Trice declined to give. He said Spitz worked 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., and the victim, a four-year employee in his 40s, typically worked from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. The co-workers would see each other for maybe 15 minutes between shifts, he said, during which Spitz's bookkeeping would be handed over to the victim.

Trice said the two had a few disagreements over work habits, but violence was never involved.

'They were always resolved, and they were over minor matters,' he said of the disputes.

As far as Trice knew, the two men hadn't interacted since Spitz was fired.

'That's what made it even more bizarre,' he said.

Margaret Spitz said her son believed the firing was unjust and that he was still upset about it. But she doesn't believe her son, an animal lover and vegetarian with no criminal record, could have hurt someone. He respected firearms and was never reckless with them, she said.

'If he had hurt somebody, it would been an accident,' she said.

? Check out NBC-2's report