Crime & Safety South Bay City Releases Video Of Fatal Officer-Involved Shooting The case is being investigated by the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office and the Milpitas Police Department. Replies (2)

Video of the incident was taken from body cameras of two officers summoned to the 130 block of North Temple Drive in response to a 9-1-1 call from a woman who said her son had just stabbed her husband and was in her apartment. (Shutterstock / ArtOlympic)

MILPITAS, CA — The city of Milpitas has released a video taken from body cameras of an officer-involved shooting that resulted in the death of Brandeis Codde, 19 of Milpitas.

The video, which shows the circumstances that led to the June 21 shooting, was released Thursday on the city’s YouTube channel.



Video of the incident was taken from body cameras of two officers summoned to the 130 block of North Temple Drive in response to a 9-1-1 call from a woman who said her son had just stabbed her husband and was in her apartment. The woman said her son had mental health issues. Nathan Brasil and Mohamed Ali were the responding officers. Brasil has been with the force for nearly five years, and Ali for nearly 18 years, according to police.

Brasil arrives first and finds Codde standing outside the building. “Freeze, put the knife down, no one wants to hurt you,” Brasil is heard saying to Codde.

“I just stabbed my father, I don’t want to be alive sir. I don’t want to hurt anyone else officer,” Codde is heard saying. “I don’t want to hurt you man,” Brasil is heard telling Codde. “Just please put the knife down and come on out. We can work through this. We can work through whatever happened. We can work through it.”

Codde starts to walk away from Brasil towards Ali as he arrives on the scene. “You’re going to get Tased,” Ali is heard telling Codde, “you’re going to get (expletive) Tased … Stop." Codde turns away from Ali and is heard yelling “kill me” as he charges Brasil. Police said Codde had two knives in his hand. Codde was within 11 feet of Brasil when Brasil opened fire. The shooting occurred at around 1 p.m., police said.