The three Pueblo Police officers involved in the June fatal shooting of Kevin Pulido have been cleared of any wrongdoing by the 10th Judicial District Attorney's Office.

Pulido, 43, was killed in an officer-involved shooting on June 23 during an altercation with police on the South Side.

Officers Reid Herrera, Ryan Neece, and Dustin Robinson were identified as those involved in the incident.

On June 23 around 5:30 p.m., police received a call from someone who reported a Hispanic male, later identified as Pulido, had just confronted their neighbor and pulled out a gun from his waistband, according to the incident report from the district attorney's office.

Pulido stated the cops were looking for him and that, "If you call the cops, I know where you live, I will come back for you," the report states.

The incident occurred near Jackson Street and Mesa Avenue.

Police were dispatched to the area and observed a man matching the description that was given of Pulido, and while an officer was inside her patrol vehicle Pulido reportedly ran in front of her car, pulled out a handgun, and pointed it at her before running into an alley. The officer lost sight of him at that point.

More Pueblo Police Department officers then arrived at the scene, and Pulido was observed in front of a home on the 1100 block of Bragdon Avenue by an officer.

The report states Pulido appeared to see that officer in an alley and pulled out a gun, pointed it at the officer, and pulled the trigger, though nothing discharged from the gun.

Pulido then ran toward the front of the residence he was near and encountered his brother who pleaded with Pulido to give him the gun, telling him that police were going to shoot him, but Pulido reportedly told his brother that he didn't care.

As Pulido and his brother were near a white van that was parked in the driveway of the residence, Herrera confronted Pulido and repeatedly yelled at him to drop the gun.

Herrera deployed his Taser on Pulido, but it proved to be ineffective, according to the report.

Pulido then reportedly pulled a gun from his waistline and pointed it in the direction of Herrera, so Herrera fired a round from his weapon at Pulido.

After Herrera fired, Neece, who was positioned in the street in front of the home, observed Pulido near the back of the van holding a gun and pointing it in the direction of Herrera so Nice fired a round at Pulido from the shotgun he was carrying.

Herrera then fired his weapon several more times at Pulido, which caused him to go to the ground.

As Pulido was on the ground behind the van, Robinson, who was outside the yard on the south of the property, propped the AR-15 rifle he was carrying on the fence and fired three shots at Pulido.

Herrera then yelled, "Stop, hold fire" and no other shots were fired, the report states.

Pulido died at the scene, a result of multiple gunshot wounds, an autopsy later concluded.

Pulido's brother was not harmed during the incident.

In his decision letter regarding the incident, District Attorney Jeff Chostner wrote that the officers involved in the shooting were justified by the defense of self and defense of others provisions of the laws of Colorado.

"They had reasonable grounds to believe, and did believe, that they and their fellow officers were in imminent danger of being killed or receiving great bodily injury, especially given that Kevin Pulido had already told neighbors he was looking for the cops while racking the slide on his gun, pointed his gun at two officers, and then pointed the gun at Officer Herrera after Herrera's Taser had no effect on Kevin Pulido," Chostner stated.

Chostner said given the facts and circumstances of the situation, no criminal charges will be filed against any of the officers.

rseverance@chieftain.com