Topeka police have identified a 20-year-old man who died early Monday when a stolen sport utility vehicle collided with a pickup truck on the city's east side.

The fatality victim was identified Ricardo J. Rodriguez, 20.

Topeka Police Department officials say Rodriguez was a passenger in the stolen SUV.

However, police officials say Rodriguez wasn't a suspect in the SUV's theft.

The crash occurred around 5:20 a.m. near S.E. 21st and Madison.

Police said Rodriguez was the passenger in a black Kia sport utility vehicle that had been reported stolen earlier in the morning.

The SUV collided with a Nissan pickup truck just east of the Thurgood Marshall Memorial Bridge. The location was about a block west of S.E. 21st and Adams.

Two others in the SUV were reported injured and were taken to a local hospital with injuries not considered to be life-threatening. Police said both of the individuals remained in the hospital on Tuesday morning.

Their names weren't available.

The driver of the pickup truck was evaluated by paramedics at the scene and didn't require ambulance transportation to the hospital.

Police officials said Tuesday that their investigation determined Rodriguez wasn't involved in the armed robbery that had been reported earlier Monday in which a black Kia sport utility vehicle was stolen near S.E. 3rd and Lawrence.

Police said they received a call regarding an armed robbery that occurred around 4:15 a.m. Monday in the 300 block of S.E. Lawrence. Two men were reported to have stolen the victim's black Kia SUV. One of the men had a gun.

Then around 5:20 a.m., police said, officers spotted the vehicle at S.E. 21st and Indiana Avenue and attempted to stop it. However, the vehicle fled and officers lost sight of it.

A short time later, police said, an officer spotted the SUV about six blocks to the west, near S.E. 21st and Adams, as it was driving at a high rate of speed. Seconds later, the officer watched the SUV crash into a black Nissan pickup truck.

Police officials said officers weren't in pursuit of the SUV at the time of the crash.

Bobbie Rodriguez said her brother was driving the Nissan pickup truck that was in the collision with the stolen SUV.

She said her brother had just turned onto S.E. 21st from S.E. Madison as he was on his way to work.

Rodriguez said her brother was traveling east on S.E. 21st when the westbound SUV collided head-on with his Nissan pickup truck.

Rodriguez said her brother was treated at the scene and didn't require ambulance transportation to the hospital.

Police said the case remained under investigation.

Anyone with information may call Shawnee County Crime Stoppers at 785-234-0007.