David Mullen and Kiley Wellendorf

Ames Tribune

People familiar with a sword-wielding man who died early Monday after Nevada police stunned him with a Taser said he had posed no threat and that they were shocked at his treatment.

“It’s crazy – it just doesn’t make sense,” said Jonathan Gutierrez, 19. He said he was a neighbor of the man at Homeacres Mobile Home Court in the Story County city.

Nevada Police Chief Ricardo Martinez said in a news release that police were investigating the death of the man and had requested an autopsy by the state medical examiner's office. In a release Tuesday, police identified the man as Jason James Kruzic, 51, of Nevada.

Martinez said in a Monday news release that callers told police that a man was walking up and down the 1600 block of 10th Street shortly before 3 a.m., carrying a sword and knocking on doors. When officers arrived, Martinez said, they found Kruzic, who matched the description callers had provided, in a grassy area east of the mobile home park, waving a sword.

Martinez said officers instructed Kruzic several times to drop his weapon, and that he responded, “It stays in my hands,” along with other, incoherent words. They used a Taser to stun Kruzic, then took away the sword and handcuffed him in a sitting position.

Following what Martinez said was standard practice, they called an ambulance so that paramedics could remove the Taser barbs. He said the paramedics arrived and were treating Kruzic when he ceased breathing.

He was taken to Story County Medical Center, where he died, Martinez said.

Martinez did not return phone calls from a reporter Monday seeking more information.

Gutierrez said Kruzic previously had walked around the mobile home park carrying a sword and that he never “goes to people’s houses.”

“I’ve seen him outside drunk in his property, but I’ve never heard of anyone calling the cops on him for destroying property or going into someone’s house," he said. "This is the first time I’ve ever heard, and it doesn’t make sense why he would go to people’s houses and knock.”

Samantha Axley, 33, told the Tribune that Kruzic "would never hurt a fly."

Axley described herself as homeless and staying in her brother's "uninhabitable" mobile home at Homeacres. Kruzic had allowed her to use his shower every day, she said, adding, "I was supposed to go over there this evening to do a load of laundry.”

She said he “would never hurt a fly.”

“He has lived here since before my brother resided here and even when my brother didn’t reside here, he’s kept an eye over the place and has always been very, very kind,” she told the Tribune on Monday afternoon.

She said Kruzic was in failing health because of chronic alcoholism and had a “history of doing this.”

“He was just a good guy — he wasn’t going to hurt anybody,” Axley said.

The Reuters news service reported last year that nearly 1,100 people in the United States after being stunned by police Tasers since the devices came into widespread use in the early 2000s.