From Staff Reports

A man who died after he had an encounter with Shreveport fire and police personnel in late April has been ruled to have perished from febrile delirium, the Caddo Parish Coroner's office has determined. Febrile delirium is an acute and transient confusional state with high fever.

Wavey Austin, 63, died April 19, 2020 at WK Pierremont Health Center, after an off-duty Shreveport Police officer working as a security guard at the Park Villa Apartments attempted to talk to Austin following a complaint by a neighbor. The officer heard incoherent noises coming from Austin's apartment and called Shreveport Fire Department paramedics after Austin would not answer his door.

When paramedics arrived, Austin was confused and combative, and medical evaluation was not possible. Police were summoned and on arrival, officers contacted Austin, who still was confused, delusional and uncooperative. Austin was handcuffed so a medical evaluation could be performed. During the medical evaluation, Austin became unresponsive, and his heart rate slowed and eventually stopped. Paramedics began CPR and resuscitative measures. Austin was rushed to the closest available hospital, where further lifesaving measures proved unsuccessful. He was pronounced dead at 10:46 p.m.

More:Shreveport police custody deaths spark outrage, DA investigation

"There was no struggle (with police) and a Taser was not used," Caddo Parish Coroner Dr. Todd Thoma said. He noted that Austin had a temperature of 101.5 degrees at the hospital and that upon autopsy was found to have "underlying hypertensive cardiovascular disease with an enlarged heart that contributed to his cardiovascular arrhythmia. No infective source or significant signs of trauma were found."

A complete autopsy with toxicology and microscopic tissue evaluation failed to provide a definitive cause of death. But Thoma determined that Austin had a febrile delirium and that his fever and delusional behavior were consistent with excited delirium.

However, Thoma added, "an exhaustive investigation into (Mr. Austin's)medical history and interviews with close contacts failed to reveal any risk factors that are common in this condition. The official cause of death will be Cardiac Arrhythmia secondary to Febrile Delirium."