This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

A pursuit suspect has died after being shot by deputies on the westbound 210 Freeway in San Bernardino on Wednesday afternoon, authorities said.

The pursuit began in Victorville around 9:30 a.m. after deputies responded to a suspicious vehicle report. A resident in the area Ashmont Street and Indian Hills Lane called authorities because they did not recognize an older, silver Ford SUV that had been parked in the neighborhood, said Cindy Bachman, a spokesperson for the Sheriff’s Department.

Bachman identified the driver as 31-year-old Skyleur Young of Victorville.

Deputies tried to pull the vehicle over, and it took off. The chase made its way south down the Cajon Pass and onto the 215 Freeway before Young merged onto the westbound 210.

Young was speeding and lost control, causing the SUV to spin out and crash, authorities said.

Aerial video from Sky5 shows the SUV came to rest facing deputies’ vehicles, seven of which were at the scene.

A handgun recovered by deputies following a police shooting on the 210 Freeway in San Bernardino on June 24, 2020, is seen in a photo released by sheriff’s investigators.

Young got out and “within moments pointed a handgun at the deputies,” Bachman said. At least one deputy opened fire. It’s unclear how many shots were fired.

Bachman said she had not received information that Young fired his weapon.

The suspect was struck and taken to the hospital, where he was later pronounced dead, according to the Sheriff’s Department.

A gun was later recovered at the scene, Bachman said.

The westbound 210 Freeway was shut down for hours, according to San Bernardino County sheriff’s officials.

No further details were available amid the ongoing investigation.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Detective Eric Ogaz at 909-387-3589, or leave an anonymous tip by dialing 800-78CRIME or going to the website www.wetip.com.