Wade R. Meisberger wasn’t just some guy driving through the Hazleton area Monday.

Weaving his way through the roads of three counties in a rig after its trailer was ditched on Interstate 81 near the Frackville exit, the convicted killer was pursued by Hazleton police, state police and U.S. Marshals.

The chase culminated in an approximate four-hour standoff at a Hazleton playground where shots were fired and neighbors scrambled for cover. Police said Meisberger intermittently fired bullets from the vehicle until he was shot and killed late Monday night.

During his lifetime, Meisberger had killed his friend, stolen his Pontiac Fiero, got out of prison early and started a new life, even serving as an inspirational speaker visiting Indiana Department of Corrections facilities.

His path to Hazleton on his last day alive weaved along, much as his final ride did.

July 1991

After using a 2-by-4 board to beat a childhood friend, Michael C. Sawyer, 20, to death on railroad tracks, Meisberger, then 19, fled in the victim’s car. Meisberger also sliced Sawyer’s throat before leaving the scene in Sawyer’s Pontiac Fiero.

The Herald-Times of Bloomington, Indiana, reported Meisberger was a high school dropout who served a year in the U.S. Navy before the murder.

August 1992

Meisberger eluded capture for a year and was featured on the TV show “America’s Most Wanted,” which highlighted cases of fugitives on the run.

The episode aired Aug. 21, 1992. Reports say he had fled to Florida. Police then found him in North Carolina and brought him back to Indiana.

May 1993

Meisberger was convicted of one count of murder and a Class D felony for theft of the Fiero during his trial in Bloomington, Indiana.

He was sentenced to 48 years in prison for the crimes.

March 1999

A judge reduced Meisberger’s 48-year sentence to 30 years from his 1993 conviction. He was to be on probation for 18 years upon his release from prison, then on unsupervised probation until 2041.

A letter in his court file says he intended to pursue a divinity degree.

September 2007

Meisberger got out of prison in 2007 through Indiana’s good-time provision, which gives inmates two days of credit for each one served if they stay out of trouble.

He was to be on 18 years of supervised probation after his release.

June 2012

Facing a probation violation, Meisberger vowed he would not return to prison. So he took dramatic action.

Meisberger wrote goodbye letters to loved ones, drove to the Kentucky River’s Carrollton-Prestonville Bridge, took off his clothes and jumped.

But he survived the June 21 plunge, swam to shore, sneaked naked back to his truck, then went underground.

Divers searched the river for 10 hours before determining the 40-year-old man’s body was not in the water.

July 2012

In YouTube videos posted in the days after his disappearance, Meisberger claimed he had intended to kill himself but was unsuccessful. failed to die in the attempt. He also claimed probation officers and others were out to get him, intending to return him to prison and keep him from his son.

Investigators, though, believe he was trying to fake his own death to avoid facing an allegation he had failed to maintain and report a valid address. He also did not return phone messages from his probation officer, nor did he show up at two probation appointments in June.

Police located and arrested him July 17.

“I was pissed I didn’t kill myself,” he said in court.

April 2015

Meisberger was released from prison following a sentencing modification.

He is to remain on probation until August 2027.

May 2018

Meisberger was featured in the Indiana Department of Corrections’ newsletter, Re-Entry Rundown, Vol. 6.

The article includes a picture and says he returned to Pendleton Correctional Facility, “this time, as a guest speaker.”

From the publication:

He credits his success and recovery to the mental health services offered at the Wabash Valley Correctional Facility. He returned to the Pendleton Correctional Facility to offer his tragic story as a testament of perseverance and redemption to the population committed to the mental health units. “Live in the here and now, don’t worry about what you did yesterday, don’t worry about what you’re going to do tomorrow,” he told the audience.

Wade was hoping to turn his cycle of incarceration into a cycle of success.

“You can do this, don’t give up hope,” was his advice.

This time when Wade left prison, he wanted to return . . . as a volunteer, to support those still battling their own mental illnesses.

June 2020

Meisberger becomes involved in a high-speed chase through Schuylkill, Carbon and Luzerne three counties in northeastern Pennsylvania before engaging in a four-hour armed standoff with authorities at Beech Street Playground in Hazleton.

At age 48, he was shot and killed.

This story was compiled from reports by the Associated Press and Tribune News Service reports from the Herald-Times of Bloomington, Indiana, and the Herald-Tribune of Batesville, Indiana.