LBReport.com News Further On High Speed Chase That Killed 74 Yr. Old Man @ MLK/Hill: Driver of Allegedly Stolen Car Has Now Been Booked for Murder & More Police Say He's a Parolee With Prior Convictions for Grand Theft Auto & Evading Police Police Responded After Driver Was First Allegedly Involved In LB Hit & Run (1300 block MLK) We Post Further Info On What Happened (Oct. 2, 2003) -- LBPD says the driver of an allegedly stolen car who refused to yield to officers, prompting a high speed chase that broadsided a car at MLK & Hill St. killing its 74 year old driver, was on parolee with prior convictions for grand theft auto, evading police officers and drunk drivers. Police say 23-year old Sanoun Chhoun of Long Beach has been booked for murder, grand theft auto, receiving stolen property, evading police, hit and run, driving on a suspected driver's license and a parole violation...and LBPD detectives will also seek charges of felony drunk driving. LBPD says officers were dispatched at roughly 4:51 p.m. on October 1 to the 1300 block of MLK Ave. after a hit and run just occurred. It involved a vehicle identified as stolen from Santa Ana, last seen driving away with three occupants. LBPD officers spotted the suspect vehicle in the area of Orange Ave. and 21st St., tried to stop the vehicle by using lights and sirens...but the driver refused to yield. A pursuit was initiated which lasted about 90 seconds.

Photo: Wayne Chaney, LBFD The suspect vehicle was westbound on Hill and failed to stop at a stop sign at MLK slamming broadside into a car driven by 74-year old Quillar Coleman who, with his wife, was headed south on MLK. Mr. Coleman was pinned in the wreckage and three teams of LBFD firefighters worked simultaneously to perform a complex extrication. All told, 19 firefighters were involved.

Photo: Wayne Chaney, LBFD

Photo: Wayne Chaney, LBFD LB Firefighter Paul Rodriguez stayed with Mr. Coleman through the 45 minute process -- comforting and encouraging him, putting his arms around him, letting him know what firefighters were doing as their heavy equipment worked to free him. Mr. Coleman was taken to a local hospital where LBPD command staff and a police chaplain responded to provide support and assistance to the victims' family. Sadly, Mr. Coleman did not survive his injuries. His wife sustained injuries described as minor. At the scene of the collision, two suspects fled the suspect car; the driver was dazed and immediately taken into custody. After a foot pursuit and with assistance from LBPD's helicopter "Fox," officers took the other two suspects into custody. Anyone with information about these terrible events is asked to contact LBPD Accident Investigation Detective Brian Watt at (562) 570-7355.