KCPD officer shot Thursday responding to stimulus, moving arms and legs Share Copy Link Copy

Hide Transcript Show Transcript

good morning. Good afternoon, I guess, is first. I want to give officer updates. Our first officer yesterday that was shot at in appearance and part of ski. I talked to him today. He's home, He's healing. He's doing well. He's gonna take some time off, be with family. Things are looking very good. There are second officer that was shot at stadium. Um yesterday, obviously still very critical was with family this morning at the hospital. He's moved some of his limbs, which is a very promising sign. The neurosurgeon seems to be very optimistic for the wounded. Was that that he could do some help with surgery yesterday and feels like, you know what could be done? He did very well, and hopefully that will enhances healing processes. He goes forward. So we continue the prayers for that officer if we could, I think the working. I think we're headed down the right path. I talked to the family. The family asked me to tell everyone that they're thankful for the support from Kansas City. When I was talking to the mom, she said, I would like to ask the city to please pray for peace in our city that we need peace in this city and not more violence. So she wanted me to deliver that message. I would also like to let everyone know the Missouri Highway Patrol is continuing. Their investigation into both incidents is we are not involved in either investigation. Okay, so the reality of it is today we stand at 97 homicides, and today we stand at 329 fatal shootings in the city, 320 people hit by bullets in this city this year to July, where we had third, Uh, obviously not a stat that I think and you just want to hear or should be proud to hear. I think this violence as we can see how it's affected, the police family, out effects families from all over the city in this community and how much it tears us apart and how much we need to work and do better work to get this to change the stem to change. We asked my ideas Police department. We're gonna be working on some new collaborations of how we work with community. Try and work through. Some of these situations were still in the planning stages, but more to come on that shortly. Um, you know, I said that yesterday that if we had more our rage about what was going on in this city, that 10 times more effort would be put into solving the violent crime message alone, not other. What may be associative issues? I still feel that way. I still think there needs to be more resource is put into the violent crime situation and whatever we can do to solve and and and prevent the continued frustration that seems to plague our streets. And that frustration answered with illegal gunfire. We need something that will turn that tide. We're going to continue to work on that. I'm asking that our partners, our leaders, they also work in it on it as hard as we are. As I said, we're out there 24 7 365 days a year, and it's not easy. You know, we had some conversations before the meeting, you know, every day and the people behind us, they chose to get up and put on this police uniforms today and many of them, I'm sure under pressure from their family not to do it now given instance. Example. Last night I had to call in another situation. The city and I called communications unit. I said, Who's on seeing? They said Sergeant So and so And I said, What started? So in so doing there, he doesn't He's not signed there And they said Yes. So I picked up the phone and called me and said, Well, I just felt like I had to come in and help And he said, You know, my wife asked me not to leave because he has a pretty cushy job where he is not on the streets. But he felt like he was called to be out there to help. And I would say you all That's the dedication, the men and women in this police department. And, well, you know, I just you know, you know, some of this is the negative narrative on law enforcement, and, you know, I I'm trying to bite my tongue here, but it's frustrating because that is not what's happening here. These men and women come out here every day to protect and help people in this city in I think, for a while there that was a negative portrayal of that and it was a voice and maybe a message that was not on. It was not honest, in my opinion. From my perspective, it was not what really happens every day and night throughout the city. Do you feel support from politicians? Say there's a lot of people that we've talked. That's we don't Yes, you know, I tell. I've gotten calls all day long from people, council people, other people, The mayor. I feel like we're very much supported, but it's easy to do that when you've got two police officers shot one day in general. You feel? Yes, I do. Honestly, I do. I think there is. Is is support for police part now We may bicker about how we go about that. I take that. Yes, I think most people understand with people doing about what the people behind me are doing. Every day needs to be supported. And we need that support. You know, people are here, they see a brush. I see. I see the dedication. I see what people really want. They want to go out and help this city, and they want to help. I mean, how Maney last year responded 91 2,000,001 calls received in our center of people calling us for help. We didn't make them call their initiating that call. They're calling us because they want to have help. And we're responding to that. So I would I say to you is those are the dedicated people that do that? Those are the people that show up on doorsteps at all hours of the night during any weather. Whatever has to happen in this city and they keep going no matter what, no matter what you know, negative narrative. They may be out there, not the pressures of family and other things. They come out here and do their job every day. When we talk about the record number is that you indicate a drive way constantly evaluate that. Yes. Do we have some approaches we have that you think are working Well, you know, one of the messages we got out since I've 10 year chief, violent crimes gone down every year in the city. It's our aggravated sultan. Shootings are going up, but violent crime as a whole is going down. That message doesn't get out either. So obviously, some of our initiatives and what we are doing is working or that violent crime, in my opinion, wouldn't be trending in that direction. What could the community do to support two guys that got shot yesterday and well, good question, Mike. Thank you. And I would say right now the most important thing is we need continued prayers for our second officers. Doing the hospital is very critical. We've had food, donations and other things come to the station, and it's much appreciated. The officers really appreciate sediments of people coming up here with trays and, you know, boxes full food for the officers at the station. So that's been much appreciated. I was here sitting in the thing, waiting for the briefing, and some lady came in and just gave a card. Said Chief of re signing, Thanks for your your all you do for this city. And she had cards for various people in the stations. I mean, all of that is much appreciated for and what what? You know, I think those are in depth discussions. You know, I'm not gonna get into that right now. I think the idea is is that there needs to be more attention to the violent crime issue. Overall, there's a lot of attention on a lot of issues in Kansas City. Right way all, watch the news all the time. You hear this news stories and what's going on? If this is really the biggest news story, people are keep dying in our streets than it needs more attention. Overall, it's a busy weekend. There's a lot of concern. One. What do you say to people? I can't predict when we're going to hit 100? That's that's out of my control. I'd say the people I'd rather not 100. I mean, it's not in the police departments control. We get there. We're gonna respond if it does, just like we do to every other one. But it's tragic, right? I think everyone in who's here and everyone who's listen. This feels the same way. We do not want to get 100 nor do we want to hit 1 50 Nor do we want to set records. This is not the place we want to be at, but it's coming upon. The whole community partake in this right. We need people to call us when people aren't disputes before they happen when people are carrying guns and they shouldn't be. And we know they're hot added. People need to call us and let us get involved and try to intervene in those situations and try and prevent the shootings from Hatton and the community can help in that, Just like to our recent crimes, when people call 911 are call. Our detectives are called Tips hotline and give us information That helps us also with community involvement. Here's what makes all of this work things that I took a picture of this 10th in bed tag on the side of the buildings has no snitches. How do you get past that? Because that's obviously a factor. Homicide. I agree, Mike, but I think you know some of this has almost been generational right. We now have kids, and some people teach their kids not to talk to the police. We need to change that narrative that we want kids to work with the police and grow up with that. That's where I grew up. That's what my parents taught me, right? If if an officer comes and talks, have you talked to him, you cooperate. You do what the officer says. I think there's some people that don't teach that right. I think what we need is to go back to how things were and we would have better cooperation. And that's why this department is involved in many initiatives to try and make that connection early. The long term plan is to the youth, right? That's what we are working on. That's why we have explorers. Um, you please policing the initiative. All kinds of stuff that we're trying to do to connect Simply don't. Yeah, you know, I can't answer that from their perspective. Also I can say is Aziz, you know, we will show up at any meeting we will contact. We will weigh, will coordinate. We will help be involved. Our community interaction officers one standing behind me. They do that every day here. They're involved in this community. If anyone wants to get involved with this community, find out with our police departments about We have great opportunities to do that from anybody. I had asked him to get engaged. What do you have to say? Yeah, you know, we're not going to stop doing our job. You know, if you think that this is some sort of opportunity for you to engage in stupid behavior. I want, you know, we're gonna be there, and we're gonna come after you. If you want to be involved in violence, we're gonna come after you as hard as we can on that same approaches in the second half of the year. Pardon me. Is the city planning any new approaches? I don't know what the city is planning. Well, I just said we're evaluating things, How we get in the community and get more engaged. They're challenging other parts of the criminal justice system, whether it's prosecution, probation, that absolutely Yes, yes. You know, I say, this is a criminal justice system we see in Kansas City right here behind us. But there's probation, parole. There's prosecutors and judges. There's incarceration. There's all kinds of stuff frequently that are not talked about. Yes, all of those parts of the system need to be working well together. I've said that before. We need to be able to develop work together more often and more closely to make sure our most violent offenders go to jail and stay in jail. You said you're gonna come after you. You on Tuesday, we had a shooting. You've already got two suspects in custody solving these crimes. We are solving a lot of the crimes. And frankly, we've gotten good tips from a lot of the community that came in and helped us solve these crimes. So it's all not bad news, right? Way have partners out there. We have support. We have people in the community who don't want to see this crime going. What we need to do is take that up another level we needed to get stronger. The majority of people, no doubt and and frequently we know them by name. This is not It's not a surprise to us. And that, I think, is the hard part, right? When they're not a surprise to us, then why aren't they in jail? Why aren't there if we've already worked cases on them, we've already been involved with them. We already know what's going on and why aren't there there in the first place? And that's what we gotta work out. You talked about prayers, officer. His family come. Yeah, offer more. There anything else? More people Now that's all it right now the family is asking for privacy there, there with their together at the hospital. You know, obviously this is traumatic, Right? Yesterday was a normal day from them, and all of a sudden they have a squad car, red lights and siren in their driveway home into a hospital. I mean, this is no one wants that. No one wants that call. No one wants to be involved in that. It's tragic. It's traumatic. It's happening very much. I mean, decisions have to be made right away, so it's hard. So all we're asking is to show that support, You know, you can send an email, sent anything. The police department. Be happy to pass it on to our open email addresses. Go ahead and send it in. Will will make sure that family gets it. I can't thank you all enough for coming out today. Thank you.

GET LOCAL BREAKING NEWS ALERTS The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox. Your Email Address Submit Privacy Notice