An officer who was responding to a disturbance call in an Ohio store parking lot was shot and killed early on Saturday morning by an intoxicated man holding a beer, police said.

Toledo Officer Anthony Dia, 26, was shot in the chest just after midnight in the parking lot of a Home Depot, and later pronounced dead at a hospital, Police Chief George Kral said at a news conference.

Witnesses told police the man, identified as Edward Henry, 57, shot the officer with a handgun and then went into a wooded area before taking his own life.

Toledo police investigate after a Toledo police officer was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Home Depot in Toledo, Ohio

Police investigate the scene in the early hours of Saturday morning after the death of an officer

Officer Dia was said to have been checking to see if the man was okay before he was suddenly shot dead

They told how the male suspect appeared to be walking away when he turned and fired one round from a handgun and shot the officer.

At some point, officers heard a single gunshot coming from the woods where the man ran towards, Kral said.

The gunman, only described as a 57-year-old white male, was found dead of an apparent gunshot wound to the head around 3:15am.

Dia leaves behind a wife and a two-year-old child, the chief said.

'He was checking to make sure that this man was OK,' Krahl said.

The man, who appeared to be intoxicated, began botheringg some people who were part of a group of friends gathered in the parking lot.

Officer Dia leaves behind a wife and his two young children, pictured here

Toledo police block a road after a Toledo police officer was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Home Depot in Toledo, Ohio early on Saturday

The man, identified as Edward Henry, 57, shot the officer with a handgun and then went into a wooded area before taking his own life

Officer Dia told the man to stop but he kept walking away. He then bent down behind some gardening supplies according to the Toldeo Blade before firing at the cop.

The officer managed to return fire before collapsing.

'He was young, and he was scared,' said Shalene Houke to The Blade.

Mayor Wade Kapszukiewicz said he was at Toledo Hospital where Dia was taken after the shooting.

'I will never forget the sight of Officer Dia being wheeled out of the hospital on a gurney, his body wrapped in an American flag, flanked by about 30 Toledo police officers, saluting and weeping,' the mayor said.

'We are all in mourning, and we will never forget his sacrifice,' he said. 'Sacrifice comes in all forms and we cannot forget the struggle that our police officers face on a daily basis.'

Police Chief George Kral held a news conference outlining the circumstances of Dia's death

Toledo Police Chief George Kral bows his head with other officers during a news conference at the Safety Building after Toledo Police Officer Anthony Dia was shot and killed

The Mayor noted that with the death falling on July 4th it came with added poignancy.

'He was not only of Toledo's bravest and best police officers, he's also someone who contributes to the diversity that makes our country and our city so great,' the Mayor said as he told of Officer Dia's Muslim faith.

'It is our nation's birthday,' Mayor Kapszukiewicz said. 'And our nation's motto is, 'E pluribus unum. From many, come one.

'We live in divided times. We must come together as one. We are one human family, one American family, and one Toledo family.'

Neither Kral nor Kapszukiewicz took questions during the news conference. More information was expected to be provided at another news conference Monday.

Gov. Mike DeWine expressed his condolences and said he had ordered flags in Lucas County and at the Ohio Statehouse to fly at half-staff from Sunday through the officer's funeral service.

Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost said in a statement that his 'heart breaks' for the family of the officer.

'Officer Dia lost his life doing what police do during every watch of their lives - trying to help someone,' Yost said. 'His memory will stand tall forever, a man who was fulfilling his duty in his final act.'

A GoFundMe account has been set up to help the fallen officer's family and two young children.