James "Jay" Porter Garcia was experiencing homelessness, struggling with drug addiction and needed somewhere to sleep. His friend Shawn Hansen let Garcia park a vehicle in his driveway on July 3. Garcia slept in the vehicle overnight.

The next day, on the Fourth of July, Hansen's house became a focal point for Phoenix police.

More details of what led up to Garcia's fatal shooting by police emerged Monday with the release of hours of police body camera footage, 911 calls and recorded interviews with witnesses.

Records show police responded to Hansen's Maryvale house, looking for a stabbing suspect named "Eric" or "Eddie." Another homeless man had called police to report that "Eric" had threatened to stab him inside the house, and had already stabbed him a week before.

The homeless man had used a stranger's cellphone to call police after leaving the house.

When police arrived, people inside the house told officers that the suspect who they referred to as "Eddie" had left, body camera footage shows.

Still, police wanted to interview everyone inside the house, including Garcia, who was sleeping in a tan 1997 Lexus in the driveway. The officers had reason to believe Garcia wasn't the suspect based on the caller's description. Still, they woke him up to question him about the stabbing suspect.

The incident escalated when Garcia, who was still in his vehicle, grabbed his gun and pointed it downward. Police say Garcia raised his arm and then officers shot a volley of bullets into the vehicle, 13 minutes after an officer first woke him up, according to the police report.

The footage, which blurs out Garcia, does not make it clear if he raised the gun or pointed at officers. The two officers never said Garcia pointed the gun at anyone but they were scared Garcia was going to shoot someone, according to audio interviews.

"I was afraid that he was either going to shoot the officer who just broke the window and didn’t have a gun in his hand, or he’s gonna lean over and shoot me, so I fired my weapon into him through the window," Officer Gregory Wilson said, according to an audio interview.

Wilson and another officer fired 16 rounds, killing Garcia.

Before the officers shot, Garcia had told the officers, "Shoot me, shoot me," according to the two officers, Noel Trevino and Wilson.

Garcia's case captured national attention, including from former presidential candidate Julian Castro and put the Phoenix Police Department under scrutiny. It renewed a wave of protests against police violence and systemic racism after several weeks of demonstrations spurred by the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25.

At the request of the police Chief Jeri Williams, the FBI is reviewing the case or any possible civil rights violations.

'He hit rock bottom'

Garcia's family and advocates demanded the Phoenix Police Department release all unedited body camera footage and the police report promptly. In response, Williams said the department would start releasing footage of police shootings within 10 to 14 days of the incident.

On Monday, the Phoenix Police Department released hours of edited body camera footage from five officers, three 911 calls, audio interviews and a 142-page police report.

Previously, Phoenix police had released clips of a 911 call and an officer pulling Garcia's handgun from the vehicle.

Daniel Ortega, the attorney representing Garcia's family, declined to comment until a news conference planned Tuesday.

The police have identified the stabbing suspect who prompted the call to the house and are searching for that person, a spokeswoman said on Monday.

The Maricopa County Attorney's Office will decide if prosecutors should file any charges against the two officers who shot Garcia after they review the case.

The police report and detectives' interviews with Garcia's mother and friend paint a picture of a father of two who struggled with drug addiction, depression and suicidal thoughts. His mother told police she had tried tough love to help the 28-year-old get his life back on track, but it hadn't worked.

His addiction to pain killers evolved into heavier drug use, she told police, according to the report.

"He hit rock bottom but still continued (using drugs). I would check on him and make sure he had food. He used to be really healthy. Then he became very thin. Everything was just terrible," his mother, Denice Garcia, told police, according to the audio interview.

'Garcia could have complied at any time'

The union that represents the Phoenix Department's rank-and-file defended the officers who shot Garcia. They said Garcia was a convicted felon who had a motive to defy officers.

"James Garcia could have complied at any time, but being a convicted felon in possession of a firearm while on probation meant that he would be going back to prison," the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association said on Facebook.

Advocates say the body camera footage proves that police had initially only released selective information to justify the shooting.

"What we learn from this video is that again, Phoenix police lied," Black Lives Matter Phoenix Metro, an advocacy group, said on its Facebook page. "They lied about James pointing a gun at them, they lied saying James was hostile, they lied by insinuating James was the person they were looking for."

'He was egging him on'

The incident started with the 911 call from the homeless man who wanted police to arrest the man who had stabbed him.

The caller told dispatchers that he was at Hansen's house to hang out with a friend and to take a shower. There, he was confronted by the stabbing suspect who threatened to stab him again with a knife.

A man inside the house grabbed a gun and eventually helped the homeless man leave the house, according to the police report.

The homeless man then asked a stranger to use his cellphone to call the police.

He told police the man stabbed him a week earlier because the man thought he'd stolen a bike from him, the police report says.

He pointed to the house where the stabbing threat occurred and described the suspect as 5 feet, 6 inches tall. Garcia had told Wilson he was 5 feet, 11 inches tall. Another witness said the suspect was bald. Garcia had dark hair.

Police wanted everyone to get out of the house to ask about the suspect.

Trevino's body camera footage shows he spoke to Hansen's dad and another man outside the house. They told him that "Eric" or "Eddie" already had left.

Trevino asked about Garcia and if he was armed. They responded that they didn't know him well and that it was Hansen's friend, the footage shows.

Officer Anthony Deida had first approached Garcia, asking him for his name. Body camera footage shows that Garcia gave a false name and refused to get out of the vehicle. He told the officer he had a misdemeanor warrant.

Court records show he was convicted of a felony for stealing $600 worth of clothing from a retail store. He violated probation and there was a warrant out for his arrest.

Deida told him he didn't care about the misdemeanor warrant. Then Sgt. John Backus told Garcia that he needed to get out of the vehicle or he would be forced out, the footage shows. Garcia refused and rolled up his window. Backus then walked to the other side of the vehicle.

Wilson meanwhile stood near the car door and eventually said of Garcia, "He's got a gun," the footage shows.

Wilson yelled at Garcia, "Get your hand off the f--king gun." Trevino, who was speaking to nearby witnesses ran over to the car and pointed his gun into Garcia's vehicle, the footage shows.

"If he lifts that anymore I'm shooting him," Wilson said, the footage shows.

Deida then grabbed a rod from a truck in the driveway and broke the Lexus' passenger side window. Two seconds after Deida broke the window, Wilson and Trevino fired off the 16 rounds, the footage shows.

Officers took Garcia's body out of the vehicle, put him on the street and performed CPR on him, the footage shows. They then put his body in the back of a police Tahoe and drove him to nearby medics, the footage shows.

“I’m not too sure who shot first, me or my partner, once I saw the arm move is when I shot," Trevino said, according to the audio interview. “I could see his face as he’s kinda like, almost leaning over, telling my partner to shoot him. His face is literally close to the windshield, so he wasn’t just talking from inside the vehicle, he was egging him on from pretty close to the windshield.”

Wilson said he was worried Garcia was going to fire at Deida.

“When he broke the window, the suspect, who already had the gun up a little bit, kind of looked over and he raised his gun up, and that’s when I fired," Wilson told detectives later.

Hansen, who was in the house before police arrived, told officers later that he had let Garcia park the Lexus in the driveway so he could sleep there, according to the police report and audio interview. He said that he was supposed to wake him up at noon but forgot.

“When I heard that he was shot, I kind of like lost it for a little bit," Hansen said. "I was supposed to wake him up, that’s why I feel completely horrible about the situation."

'God bless you, I love you, but you have to go'

Garcia wasn't allowed to own a gun because he was convicted of a felony, but he'd had a friend buy him one at a pawnshop for self-defense, Mallory Van Slyker told police.

Garcia had been shot at by a person who wanted to buy drugs from him two weeks earlier, according to Van Slyker.

Van Slyker, the owner of the Lexus, would often let Garcia sleep over as long as he helped with chores and errands, according to the report. Van Slyker told police that Garcia had taken the Lexus without permission the day before the shooting.

Denice Garcia told police she knew her son had a gun. He'd paid for the gun with the federal stimulus check, the report says.

She told police the last time she had seen her son was a few days before the shooting when he went to her house to pick up his ID.

Apart from struggling with drug addiction, she told police her son had been diagnosed with depression at the age of 12.

"He’s had a lot of hurdles,” she told police.

At one point, he started to straighten out his life and got a job with Bank of America, an apartment and a car, the mother told police. But he began to use drugs again and lost his job, his apartment and his vehicle, she said.

Eventually, she kicked him out of her house, hoping that would make him change his lifestyle, according to the police report. He would sleep outside her house on the driveway, then outside of a nearby business, she told police.

When Garcia stopped by to pick up his ID from his mom's, he told her that he and his girlfriend recently tested positive for COVID-19, according to the report. Denice Garcia told police she asked her son to wear a mouth covering, then told him to quarantine himself and that she would see him in two weeks.

“So I handed him his ID," she told police. "I said, 'God bless you, I love you, but you have to go. Let me know in two weeks.' And that was it.”

Uriel Garcia covers public-safety issues in Arizona. Reach him at uriel.garcia@azcentral.com. Follow him on Twitter @ujohnnyg.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.