Federal police who shot a 35-year-old man near the entrance to Milwaukee VA Medical Center in July will not be charged in the death, according to records released Monday by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.

Joseph Denton Jr. was shot in the torso and foot by VA hospital police after he showed up outside the facility about 8:40 p.m. pointing a loaded shotgun at an employee and others and refusing repeated orders to put down his gun.

“The officers responded to Mr. Denton’s demonstrations of potential lethal force with an appropriate level of force in return to stop Denton from causing death or great bodily harm to the officers or other citizens in the hospital area,” Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm wrote in a Sept. 21 letter closing the case.

The letter was not released until Monday, in response to an open records request from the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.

Video footage released Monday as part of the request shows Denton hiding behind bushes outside the hospital and pointing his shotgun at an employee. He then stumbles toward the entrance of the ER, erratically turning to aim the shotgun at officers surrounding him from a distance.

The officers involved in the shooting were a 50-year-old man who had been with the VA Police Department for about four years and a 38-year-old man who had been employed by the department for more than 17 years. Both had been placed on administrative duty while the Milwaukee Police Department investigated the death.

Officers, whose names are redacted from the documents provided to the Journal Sentinel, reported that as Denton refused to drop the shotgun he said “I’m going to kill you, (expletive)” and “You put your guns down (expletive).”

“The recovered shotgun was mechanically functional and loaded with live shotgun shells,” Chisholm wrote. "The responding officers exposed themselves to the threat of death or great bodily harm for an extended time in order to gain compliance, but it is only reasonable to conclude that Mr. Denton had decided not to allow for a peaceful resolution for reasons that will never be fully understood.”

Denton’s father and brother told the Journal Sentinel they were frustrated and angry that investigators wouldn’t release any information to them about the shooting for months, or let family see the video footage.

“The way they treated his mother and me, it’s not right,” said Joseph Denton Sr.

Denton said the reason his son was walking unsteadily was because he had been sick and had a recent surgery.

“He could barely walk,” Denton said. “They didn’t have to come out and shoot him ... I swear, it hurts so bad.”

Denton said his son was making YouTube videos about being healthy and successful and wasn’t getting into trouble.

“He was a decent young man,” he said. “He had a lot of people that loved him and cared about him.”

The records do not say what happened before Denton came to the hospital with a loaded shotgun.

His brother, Nicholas Williams, said Denton was living in an apartment across the street and that his neighbors had attacked him a couple days earlier. He wondered if Denton, who was not a veteran, was hoping for help from the hospital and walked over with the gun to defend himself against his neighbors.

Denton was a convicted felon with criminal cases dating back more than a decade, including restraining orders for domestic abuse and convictions for possessing a firearm as a felon in 2005 and 2011.

In 2016, he was convicted of felony possession of narcotics in Milwaukee County and sentenced to two years of probation.

The VA’s Office of Security and Law Enforcement did its own investigation into the death and found some “administrative issues,” which were discussed with the chief of police. The records don’t state what those issues were.

The office also concluded the use of force by the officers was consistent with department policy and that the officers should be cleared to return to full duty at the facility’s leadership’s discretion.