ST. LUCIE COUNTY — A man accused of fatally shooting an 11-year-old girl and her father earlier this month died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound after exchanging shots with law enforcement, officials said Wednesday.

A total of 62 rounds were fired July 6 between Port St. Lucie police officers and a St. Lucie County Sheriff’s deputy and accused gunman Ronald Delserro, 82, at the Southeast Morningside Boulevard home of the Hansman family, officials said.

Delserro is accused of firing 22 shots from two 9mm pistols, killing Harper Hansman, 11, and her 55-year-old father, Guy Hansman. Delserro, who lived with his wife next door to the Hansmans, was found dead on Harper’s bed in her second floor room.

More: Police: 82-year-old active shooter fatally shoots 11-year-old girl, her father

Sheriff Ken Mascara and Port St. Lucie police Chief John Bolduc on Wednesday provided additional details regarding the deadly incident that followed a running dispute over the Delserro dog, a mastiff named Roxy accused of biting Hansman’s wife, Monique Hansman, and a Hansman dog months prior.

Police said Harper called 911 about 12:24 p.m., bringing law enforcement personnel to the active shooter scene near Southport Middle School.

“I never thought I would stand and say an active shooter in Port St. Lucie, but it happened,” Bolduc said.

Bolduc said within two minutes, police officers Trevor Horten, Michael Williams and Bret LaGrega and sheriff’s Deputy Doris Tracey arrived.

Monique Hansman, along with a tutor, and two others got out of the home.

Bolduc said it appeared Guy Hansman was in his garage when approached by Delserro, who then entered the Hansman home through the garage. Investigators found Guy Hansman dead in the garage.

Williams fired 28 rounds from a .223-caliber rifle; Horten and Tracey each fired 6 shots from their .45-caliber handguns.

Bolduc said Horten was shot in arm and chest but officials think it was the same round. Earlier, before the officers’ names were released, officials said a bulletproof vest stopped a projectile.

Bolduc said based on the officers’ statements, they couldn’t see Delserro clearly. They told him to show them his hands.

“He was reaching around a doorway and shooting,” Bolduc said of Delserro. “And they were in a hallway at extremely close range.”

Bolduc thought the gunfire happened quickly.

Mascara said Harper was shot as the law enforcement officers “were engaging” Delserro. Harper ran down the stairs and was shot.

Tracey grabbed Harper and dragged her out of the house under protective fire of police.

“For the three officers and deputy that were inside that residence, they’re truly heroes,” Bolduc said. “It was not anything you’ve ever seen on TV.”

According to the sheriff’s office, the law enforcement officers who fired their weapons were justified. The agency also stated Delserro sustained two non-life threatening gunshot wounds from law enforcement officers, and an autopsy found the cause of death was a self-inflicted wound to the chest.

Mascara said Guy Hansman and his daughter also were heroes.

“We know for a fact that this father did everything possible to save his family. We know for a fact that this little girl also saved people that day,” Mascara said. “We have two heroes who we lost that day also.”

Dog dispute

On March 4, animal control officials went to the Hansman home, where Monique Hansman, 53, said she was walking Rucca, her son’s female poodle mix, about 6:45 a.m. when Roxy “started to go after” Rucca, a report states.

More: Three people dead, officer injured after neighborhood dispute leads to shooting in Port St. Lucie

She said her dog was on a leash, but Roxy was not. Monique Hansman said when the dogs were fighting, she tried to get Roxy off Rucca. She said Roxy bit her arm and ear and she sustained a gash to her head. She was treated at St. Lucie Medical Center.

Animal Control officials would later be told of other incidents in which Roxy reportedly was out when she was not supposed to be.

On June 24, Monique Hansman and Harper testified at a hearing. A special magistrate found Roxy was a “dangerous dog.” That designation requires several things, including issues relating to fencing, muzzling and sterilization.

More: Port St. Lucie police officer suspended for three weeks after romantic relationship with felon

Given documents July 1 to sign regarding the “dangerous dog” finding, Sandra Delserro signed. Her husband refused.

Five days later, the shooting happened.

Will Greenlee is a breaking news reporter for TCPalm. He also covers strange, wild and weird Treasure Coast crimes in “Off The Beat.” Follow Will on Twitter @OffTheBeatTweet or reach him by phone at 772-692-8936. E-mail him at will.greenlee@tcpalm.com

If you're a subscriber, thank you. If not, become a subscriber to get the latest breaking news and weird crime coverage.