An Orange County grand jury will decide whether a Ramapo police officer should face charges for killing his next door neighbor in Cornwall, District Attorney David Hoovler said during a press conference outside the county government center Tuesday.

#Police and DA won’t release name of Ramapo officer who shot/killed neighbor in Cornwall, #NY though property records show homeowner is a Ramapo Police detective. The deceased, Erick Gilmore, had just turned 40. They had a dispute. Some neighbors said the 2 had problems before. — Ben Nandy (@BenNandyNews) July 7, 2020

Hoovler said in addition to the grand jury investigation, his office will conduct its own investigation, and added they were "coordinating" with the attorney general's office.

The incident happened at about 11 p.m. on Monday. Hoovler said it appears the officer, who lives on Main Street in Cornwall, got into a dispute with his next door neighbor, Erick Gilmore, 40, before shooting and killing Gilmore in the officer’s front yard. He added a knife was found at the scene.

Though Orange County property records show the home on Main Street is owned by Ramapo Police Detective Rob Fitzgerald, Hoovler and Cornwall Police Todd Hazard would not identify the shooter. Hoovler said he is holding back information to maintain the integrity of the investigation.

“We still have to send things away for DNA analysis, we still have to send things away for fingerprints, we still have to send things away for ballistics,” Hoovler said. “On top of that, we still have to confer with the attorney general’s office. We’ve given as much information that can be given at this point in time.”

Hoovler said he is following his office’s policy by not confirming the shooter’s identity, but the Cornwall police chief may issue additional details if he wishes. When asked whether the officer used his service arm, Cornwall Police Chief Todd Hazard turned to Hoovler for direction.

“You can answer that,” Hoovler said.

Hazard then said the officer, who was off-duty at the time of the incident, used an “off-duty” firearm. The case may be sent to a grand jury for consideration in two weeks, after a months-long hiatus due to COVID-19 restrictions.