PHOENIX — The Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office on Thursday released body camera video and additional details regarding an officer-involved shooting that left a 70-year-old Mesa man dead on Saturday.

MCSO deputies shot and killed Rodney Liveringhouse around 5:05 p.m. at 5639 E. Dodge St. after responding to a call from his wife, who said he was acting erratic, MCSO Sheriff Paul Penzone said during a press conference.

Four deputies responded to the call, though they initially had the wrong address, mistakenly believing Liveringhouse’s residence was one adjacent to his actual home.

“The reason that occurred was because his wife called from her car,” Penzone said.

“When they respond and they first make contact, they attempt to secure the house that they believe is the house where Mr. Liveringhouse is present.”

This error led to tactical challenges that caused one of the deputies to be shot at by Liveringhouse.

While preparing to secure the wrong residence, one of the deputies was standing in front of Liveringhouse’s home.

Liveringhouse then shot through a window at the deputy, who did not sustain any gunshot wounds.

“When the deputies realize they are in front of the bad guy’s house … they immediately retreat,” Penzone said.

“Upon retreating, a few are going to recover their long rifles, others are going to take tactical positions, and they initiate an effort to make contact with Mr. Liveringhouse in person.”

After deputies assumed their tactical positions, body camera footage from two law enforcement personnel showed Liveringhouse exit his home with a firearm in each hand as he proceeded toward the deputies.

“What he [Livinghouse] does is he immediately advances and continues to advance at our deputy pointing both guns,” Penzone said.

“This leads to the response which was deploying deadly force.”

Liveringhouse was then shot in the middle of the street before deputies began administering first aid.

He was later pronounced dead at a local hospital.

The incident marked the 27th shooting by law enforcement in the Valley this year, according to reports tracked by KTAR News 92.3 FM.

Follow @ktar923

We want to hear from you. Have a story idea or tip? Pass it along to the KTAR News team here.