ESCONDIDO -- Police tried to stop a woman seen drivingrecklessly Friday night in Escondido just before she crashed a carinto a pickup truck and died, authorities said.

A 36-year-old woman driving the Chevrolet pickup and her twochildren, ages 12 and 8, weren’t hurt in the crash near WashingtonAvenue and Grape Street, police Lt. Chuck Milks said Saturday.

The woman who died, 34-year-old Diana Kearbey of Escondido, mayhave been distraught over personal problems and seemed to be actingin a self-destructive manner, said Milks.

Advertisement

“She wasn’t wanted for anything (criminal),” he saidSaturday.

Donnie Kearbey, Diana Kearbey’s younger brother, said his sistertook medication for a chemical imbalance and she had recentlybroken up with her boyfriend. On Friday she went to see the formerboyfriend, the brother said, and then went to Donnie Kearbey’shome.

“I could tell something was bugging her,” Kearbey said.

His mother arrived to take his sister home Friday night, hesaid. Kearbey said his mother stopped at a gasoline station marketto buy her daughter cigarettes to calm her.

“My mom pulled the keys out (of the car),” he said. “She said,’Mom, let me listen to the radio.’ My mom said OK.”

When his sister got the keys, she took off in the blue 1988Hyundai, driving erratically, with her mother running after her,Kearbey said.

Officer Greg Kogler saw the Hyundai about 8:40 p.m. in the 600block of East Valley Parkway, police said. The car was driven overthe sidewalk and curb as the driver tried to collide with othervehicles, said Milks.

Using his lights and siren, Kogler tried to stop the Hyundai’sdriver, police said. During the next five minutes, Milks said, thecar was driven without lights and against traffic in attempts tostrike several oncoming vehicles.

While police were following the Hyundai, it slammed into therear of the pickup, killing Diana Kearbey, authorities said.

Alcohol or drug intoxication doesn’t appear to have beeninvolved, Milks said.

His sister crashed near her former boyfriend’s house, said thewoman’s brother, Donnie Kearbey.

“I heard all the sirens where I live, and it was her,” he said,his voice catching. “She was very loved, very giving. She played abig role in my life, was good with my daughter. She was a beautifulsinger.”

Contact staff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 740-3524 orjmoreland@nctimes.com.