Police: Man accused of ﻿drug trafficking killed after leading officers on pursuit in Middletown

A man was killed in a motorcycle crash after leading police on a pursuit in Middletown Thursday.According to the Middletown Police Department, police began a pursuit after receiving information that a driver of a motorcycle was involved in trafficking drugs. The man was known to police because he had been arrested and convicted for possession of methamphetamine after a similar complaint in 2018. Police said he was released from prison from that charge in May.Officers of Middletown police's Special Operation Unit followed the driver and observed him make hand to hand transactions. When a marked police vehicle attempted to stop the motorcycle driver, police said the driver sped off at a high rate of speed, police said.According to police, the pursuit began on Breiel Boulevard at Lefferson Road at around 1:54 p.m. The pursuit came to an end when the driver of the motorcycle crashed into the rear of a tractor trailer on Lefferson Road near Spring Grove Lane.Middletown's public information officer confirmed that the motorcyclist was killed in the crash.On Friday, the coroner identified the man as Jesse Myers, 38, of Middletown.The Ohio State Highway Patrol is assisting Middletown police in the investigation.Anyone with information is asked to call Middletown Division of Police at 513-425-7700.

A man was killed in a motorcycle crash after leading police on a pursuit in Middletown Thursday.

According to the Middletown Police Department, police began a pursuit after receiving information that a driver of a motorcycle was involved in trafficking drugs. The man was known to police because he had been arrested and convicted for possession of methamphetamine after a similar complaint in 2018. Police said he was released from prison from that charge in May.

Advertisement

Officers of Middletown police's Special Operation Unit followed the driver and observed him make hand to hand transactions. When a marked police vehicle attempted to stop the motorcycle driver, police said the driver sped off at a high rate of speed, police said.

According to police, the pursuit began on Breiel Boulevard at Lefferson Road at around 1:54 p.m. The pursuit came to an end when the driver of the motorcycle crashed into the rear of a tractor trailer on Lefferson Road near Spring Grove Lane.

Middletown's public information officer confirmed that the motorcyclist was killed in the crash.

On Friday, the coroner identified the man as Jesse Myers, 38, of Middletown.

The Ohio State Highway Patrol is assisting Middletown police in the investigation.

Anyone with information is asked to call Middletown Division of Police at 513-425-7700.