The investigation into an officer involved shooting last night in Knightsen is ongoing. Per the county’s law enforcement involved fatal incident protocol this case is being investigated by the Contra Costa County District Attorney’s Office and the Sheriff’s Office.

Yesterday, at about 9:38 AM, Delta Station Deputy Sheriffs responded to a home on the 1700 block of Green Acres Lane in Knightsen regarding a report of spousal abuse.

The female victim reported that she was held hostage overnight by an ex-boyfriend who sexually assaulted her, threw her on a coffee table, tied her to a chair with duct tape, and poured gasoline on her. The suspect is identified as 44-year-old Eduardo Martinez of Bay Point. He also threatened to burn down the house with her in it. The victim, who said Martinez had a shotgun and pistol, also reported that he made threats to shoot law enforcement and said he did not want to go back to jail. The victim, who is not being identified, was able to escape from the house.

Deputies set up a perimeter around the house and made numerous announcements for Martinez to come out. There was no response. The Sheriff’s Office SWAT Team and Hostage Negotiation Team (HNT) responded to the location at about 12:40 PM.

HNT communicated with Martinez during the afternoon and into the evening asking him to surrender. Martinez fired the shotgun into the ground and shot at Deputies several times during the day and would not give up.

At about 8:58 PM, Martinez came out of the house advancing on deputies and fired his shotgun at SWAT Team members. Three of them were struck. Deputies returned fire hitting the suspect. Martinez was later pronounced deceased at the scene.

One Deputy was struck in his chest but was saved by his bulletproof vest. Another was hit in his head by shotgun pellets and the third was shot in his arm. All have been treated and released from the hospital.

Martinez has extensive contacts with law enforcement. His previous arrests include: domestic battery, spousal abuse, making criminal threats, false imprisonment, obstruction, receiving stolen property and multiple counts of driving under the influence.

Anyone with any information on this incident is asked to contact the Investigation Division at (925) 313-2600. For any tips, email: [email protected] or call (866) 846-3592 to leave an anonymous voice message.

The photos show Martinez pointing a shotgun at SWAT Team members and a close up of the shotgun used to shoot deputies.

Original Information & Release

At around 12:30 pm Thursday, the Contra Costa County responded to Kite Hawk Lane and Green Acres in unincorporated Brentwood.

During the standoff, the subject was observed with a shotgun in his hand while drinking several beers. He was also observed with a knife on him.

By 9:20 pm, it was announced that 1 person was deceased and three deputies were injured in an exchange. Two deputies were transported to a local hospital and a third deputy was released on scene.

The sheriffs office has confirmed this was an officer involved shooting and according to spokesperson Jimmy Lee, two deputies were shot.

No other information was readily available. Will update when sheriff releases more information.

UPDATE per Sheriffs Office

Two Deputy Sheriffs were injured this evening after being shot by a suspect in a barricaded subject incident in Knightsen. They were taken to a local hospital. The suspect, who is not being identified at this time, was shot by Deputies who returned fire.

This morning at about 9:42 AM, Deputies were called to the 1700 block of Green Acres Lane in Knightsen regarding a domestic violence incident.

The female victim reported that the suspect held her hostage overnight, pushed her onto a coffee table breaking her ribs and poured gasoline on her threatening to set her on fire.

Deputy Sheriffs responded to the location to investigate and talk to the suspect who was at the residence. The victim was able to flee the house.

The Contra Costa Sheriff’s Office SWAT team was called out at about 12:40 PM. Sheriff’s Office HNT (Hostage Negotiation Team) also responded and communicated throughout the afternoon and into the early evening with the suspect asking him to surrender. The suspect shot at Deputy Sheriffs several times during the day and would not give up.

At about 8:58 PM, the suspect came out of the house and fired his shotgun at members of the SWAT team. Three of them were struck. Deputies returned fire hitting the suspect. He was later pronounced deceased at the scene. Two of the deputies were transported to the hospital.

Per the county Officer Involved Fatal Incident protocol, this incident is currently being investigated by the Contra Costa District Attorney’s Office and the Contra Costa Sheriff’s Office.

The investigation is ongoing. More details will be provided in a press release tomorrow.