KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (WATE) — UPDATE (4 p.m. July 16, 2020) — The man killed in Tuesday night’s officer-involved shooting in Knoxville was suspected of attempted murder of another man in Florida just hours earlier.

Christian Ramos Murillo, 32, was shot and killed after a chase with Tennessee Highway Patrol and Knox County Sheriff’s deputies on Interstate 40 on Tuesday night. North Lauderdale (Florida) Police said on Thursday, Murillo shot a man in Broward County before 7 a.m. Tuesday and fled the scene.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation confirmed Thursday that Ramos Murillo’s legal name is Cristhian Eliud Ramos-Murillo. He had several aliases, one of which is Christian Ramos Murillo.

The TBI originally said Ramos-Murillo was wanted on a murder warrant; we’ve learned from the Broward County Sheriff’s Office in Florida that the victim is still alive.

The Florida incident

North Lauderdale Police say at approximately 6:45 a.m. on Tuesday, July 14, Broward Sheriff’s Office deputies responded to a report of a shooting in the area of the 7600 block of Southwest 10th Court in North Lauderdale.

When deputies arrived on scene they located the gunshot victim, Julio Cesar Mejia Lopez, who was trauma-alerted to Broward Health North where his condition was critical.

The preliminary investigation revealed that after the shooting the suspect, Cristhian Ramos-Murillo, drove to a nearby house where he stole a gun and ammunition. He then fled in a green Chevrolet Tahoe.

Through investigative means, homicide detectives and the BSO Violent Intervention Proactive Enforcement Response (V.I.P.E.R) Unit were able to identify the Murillo and tracked his vehicle heading north through Florida.

An arrest warrant and a statewide BOLO (Be On The Lookout) was issued.

The Knoxville incident

At approximately 7 p.m. on July 14, troopers with the Tennessee Highway Patrol in Knoxville attempted a traffic stop on the suspect vehicle. The driver refused to stop and led troopers on a pursuit. Knox County Sheriff’s Office deputies responded to assist. The encounter ended in an exchange of gunfire.

Ramos-Murillo was transported to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (WATE) — UPDATE (1:50 p.m. July 16, 2020) — The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation has identified the deceased suspect and hospitalized passenger in the officer-involved shooting Tuesday night.

The deceased individual, who was wanted out of Florida on murder charges, has been identified as 32-year-old Christian Ramos Murillo. TBI identified the passenger in the vehicle as 21-year-old Mario Enrique Moya. Moya remains hospitalized.

UPDATE (1:30 a.m. July 15, 2020) — The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation says one suspect was killed, another hospitalized due to injuries sustained during an officer-involved shooting Tuesday night that shut down the roadway on I-40 East near Exit 388 for some time.

According to the TBI, just after 7 p.m., a trooper with Tennessee Highway Patrol spotted a Chevy Tahoe traveling on I-75 that was believed to be occupied by a male subject wanted on murder charges out of Florida.

The vehicle traveled on to I-40 East and a traffic stop was initiated near Watt Road; the driver refused to stop and led troopers on a pursuit.

Deputies with KCSO responded to assist and near Exit 388, where troopers and deputies attempted to force the vehicle to pull over.

For reasons at this time still under investigation, one of the occupants of the suspect vehicle fired shots at law enforcement; one trooper and four deputies returned fire.

Both individuals were struck and transported to a local hospital; one suspect was pronounced dead and the second remains hospitalized.

One trooper and one deputy sustained minor injuries during the incident.

Authorities are still working to identify one of the suspects, and the second suspect’s identity is being withheld until family members are notified.

This investigation remains active and ongoing.

Officer-involved shooting on I-40E shuts down roadway with at least 1 victim

EARLIER: An officer-involved shooting on the eastbound lanes of Interstate 40 near the James White Parkway exit had shut down the roadway with a heavy police presence Tuesday night.

Tennessee Highway Patrol says a pursuit turned into an officer-involved shooting; the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is working the incident. TDOT said TBI agents arrived on the scene and the roadway was expected to be closed for several more hours.

THP will be diverting I-40 West traffic to I-640 West on the east end of town for approximately 2 hours. During this period, all on ramps to I-40 West between I-640 and the incident site will be closed by KPD officers. — Mark Nagi (@MarkNagiTDOT) July 15, 2020

Initial reports just before 8 p.m. indicated a shooting on I-40 East at James White Parkway had shut down traffic as police investigated; with at least one shooting victim.

Traffic was diverted to alternate routes, with Knoxville Police saying James White Parkway would be closed indefinitely.

Agencies including KPD, Knoxville Fire, Knox County Sheriffs Office and Tennessee Highway Patrol were on the scene.

This is a developing story. Check back with WATE 6 On Your Side as additional information is shared by officials.

MEDIA: TBI Agents are responding to the scene of an officer-involved shooting that occurred this evening on I-40 E, near James White Parkway in Knoxville.@TBILeslie will provide additional details once agents have an opportunity to gather preliminary information. pic.twitter.com/SSgPBTtC9W — Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (@TBInvestigation) July 15, 2020

TRAFFIC ALERT: I-40 East between I-275 and James White Parkway will be closed indefinitely. Traffic is being diverted to I-275 North. Please avoid the area and seek alternate routes. — Knoxville Police TN (@Knoxville_PD) July 15, 2020

I-40 East is closed in downtown Knoxville (MM 388) due to a crash and police activity in the area. Traffic diverted to I-275 North. pic.twitter.com/7j4W0ReBjv — Mark Nagi (@MarkNagiTDOT) July 14, 2020

LATEST STORIES