KNOX COUNTY, Texas (TNN) - UPDATE

The suspect in the officer-involved shooting from last Thursday, identified as Chase Rountree, was pronounced dead on Saturday around 1:20 p.m.

No other information is available at this time and the case remains under investigation.

The 50th Judicial District Attorney’s Office has released the following statement:

“On Thursday, July 16, 2020, at approximately 8:00 AM, the Knox County Sheriff, responded to 911 calls that there was an active shooter on US 82 shooting at random cars. By the time the officers had arrived the suspect had already stolen a semi-truck at gun point and fled the scene with a woman. Shortly thereafter the Knox County Sheriff and a DPS Trooper caught up to the suspect in the stolen semi-truck. A short pursuit occurred before the suspect finally came to a stop in the middle of US 82, about 8 miles West of Benjamin, Texas. The suspect immediately exited his vehicle with a firearm. Both the Knox County Sheriff and the DPS Trooper were already out of their vehicles with weapons drawn. The suspect ignored the commands of law enforcement and pointed his weapon at the officers. At this time, he was shot by both the Knox County Sheriff and the DPS Trooper. The suspect received immediate medical attention by the officers on the scene, and later was care flighted to Lubbock with serious injuries. The female who was with the suspect was not injured and is currently in the Knox County jail.”

07/16/20

A Texas Highway Patrol Trooper and the Knox County Sheriff were involved in a shooting following a traffic stop on Thursday, according to Texas DPS.

The Trooper responded to a report that someone was shooting at vehicles on the roadway around 8 a.m.

The Trooper and Knox County Sheriff stopped a truck/tractor semi-trailer on Highway 82 about 8.5 miles west of Benjamin.

The suspect vehicle was stolen and was occupied by a man and woman. The man got out of the truck after stopping and had a firearm.

He refused to follow the commands of law enforcement and pointed the weapon at officers. He was then shot by both the Trooper and the Sheriff.

The man was flown to the Lubbock UMC with serious injuries and the woman was uninjured and is currently in the Knox County Jail.

No law enforcement or civilian injuries were reported.

The suspects have not been identified at this time.

Copyright 2020 Texoma News Network. All rights reserved.