Indianapolis police identified the five officers involved in the fatal shooting of a man during a standoff on the east side last month.

Officers John Perkins, Klinton Streeter, Lee Rabensteine, Evan Matheis and Dwayne Mills fired their guns during the July 18 SWAT incident when Grant King was killed, Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Chief Randal Taylor said in a news release Friday.

Perkins has been with IMPD for 24 years; Streeter for 11 years; Rabensteine for 10 years; Matheis for five years and Mills for 1-½ years, the department said.

The officers have no prior history of discipline, according to records provided by IMPD.

All five officers remained on administrative leave while the incident is being investigated, IMPD said.

Police said King, 35, shot at officers and narrowly missed a sleeping toddler in a nearby home before he went back inside an east-side home.

Officers were called to investigate a domestic disturbance in a home in the 3600 block of North Parker Avenue about 11:45 p.m. July 18, IMPD said.

In the initial call to 911, IMPD said a woman told dispatchers her intoxicated nephew had a gun and was standing on the porch.

Officers said they approached the home and a man stepped outside and immediately began firing a gun.

One officer returned fire, causing the man to go back into the residence. IMPD SWAT members and the Crisis Negotiation team responded.

The man's shots struck at least three nearby homes, IMPD said. One bullet narrowly missed a sleeping 21-month-old child and her grandmother, police said.

Police attempted to negotiate for several hours before SWAT officers entered the home, IMPD said.

King shot at officers, police said. Officers shot back, striking King.

King died at an area hospital.

The shooting is being investigated by IMPD’s Critical Incident Response Team in conjunction with the Marion County prosecutor's office, coroner and crime lab.

IMPD’s Internal Affairs Unit is conducting a separate investigation.

The department's Firearms Review Board will later determine if the officers followed IMPD's use of force policies.

Contact IndyStar reporter Vic Ryckaert at 317-444-2701 or vic.ryckaert@indystar.com. Follow him on Twitter: @VicRyc.