Police direct traffic away from the area. A woman was killed after jumping from a tow truck, being run over by it, while it was being pursued by Anne Arundel County Police in the area of Church Street and 6th Street. (Paul W. Gillespie/Capital Gazette)

A Severn man has been charged with second-degree murder after a woman in the stolen truck he was driving exited the car, was run over and killed.

Anne Arundel County police said David Bogdanowicz, tried to flee from detectives serving a warrant on him. Passenger Jennifer Jean Patterson, 42, then “fell out of the truck” and was run over, according to charging documents. She was pronounced dead at the scene.

Advertisement

Police aren’t sure if Patterson jumped or was thrown from the truck, said Sgt. Jacklyn Davis, a police spokesperson.

Police identified the victim with a name and as a 52-year-old woman Wednesday but police Thursday said they misidentified her and later said the woman was actually Jennifer Jean Patterson, 42.

Advertisement

Davis said the two women knew each other and were staying at the same location. Patterson was carrying paperwork that belonged to the misidentified woman during the incident and the paperwork was recovered at the crime scene. The women were similar in appearance and body type, Davis said.

A woman was killed jumping from a tow truck being pursued by Anne Arundel County Police in the area of Church Street and 6th Street. (Capital Gazette)

Daily Top Stories Daily Get the day's top news, sports, opinion, features and local events. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Bogdanowicz, 52, was charged with second-degree murder, first-degree assault, unlawfully taking a motor vehicle and resisting arrest. He is being held at Jennifer Road Detention Center without bond.

Around 2:30 p.m. Tuesday, detectives with the county’s fugitive apprehension team attempted to arrest Bogdanowicz, who was wanted on multiple arrest warrants, according to charging documents.

Bogdanowicz was driving a white Ford Super Duty flatbed truck that had been reported stolen near a construction company in Glen Burnie.

Detectives followed Bogdanowicz until the vehicle stopped near the parking lot of Village Liquors on Church Street in Brooklyn Park. Officers then surrounded the truck on Church and Sixth streets, at which point the driver reversed the truck before driving it toward a detective, Davis said.

Detective Lonnie Edmonds fired a round at the truck, which kept driving and made a turn onto Church Street. While driving on Church Street, detectives saw the passenger side door of the vehicle open and Patterson fall onto the roadway near the intersection of Church and Sixth Street.

Bogdanowicz fled to Popland Street in Curtis Bay and left the truck in an alley. Detectives located and arrested him on foot near the intersection of Popland Street and Curtis Avenue.

Even though an arrest has been made, the Anne Arundel County police is urging anyone with information on this incident or the suspect to contact the Anne Arundel County Homicide Unit at 410-222-4731. Individuals wishing to remain anonymous are asked to call the Anne Arundel County Tip Line at 410-222-4700 or Metro Crime Stoppers.