The suspect reportedly carjacked a truck, crashed into a car on Otay Lakes Road near Rutgers Avenue and tried to enter a home before Chula Vista police opened fire.

Example video title will go here for this video

CHULA VISTA, Calif. — Chula Vista police responding to a carjacking opened fire killing a suspect wanted for at least one attempted murder Monday night, according to the agency. The man identified by the Chula Vista Police Department as 33-year-old David Angulo was wanted for one attempted homicide and was a person of interest in at least two other attempted homicide shootings. Angulo was a documented gang member according to CVPD Lt. Dan Peak.

The Chula Vista Police Department held a media briefing Tuesday morning involving the incident Monday night.

CVPD Lt. Dan Peak said they have to contact several families involved in the incident while the investigation remains ongoing. No timeline was given as to a video being released and an autopsy won't be performed until Wednesday, according to Lt. Peak.

The officer-involved shooting occurred around 5:30 p.m. in the 900 block of Rutgers Avenue after Angulo reportedly carjacked a truck, crashed it in front of a home, and led officers on a foot pursuit in which he tried to gain access to a home.

Lt. Peak said officers responded around 5:20 p.m. to reports of a carjacking in progress in the area of Main Street and Maxwell Road. According to initial reports, Peak said the suspect brandished a handgun at two people inside a blue pickup truck taking the vehicle by force. The incident was observed by a fugitive task force officer who was observing the suspect and trying to identify him as Angulo. That officer put a call out to uniformed cars in the area.

After officers attempted to make a traffic stop on the vehicle a pursuit ensued. Initial reports indicated Angulo was speeding in a blue Ford truck, driving on the wrong side of the road and on the sidewalk ending up near the intersection of Otay Lakes Road and Rutgers Avenue.

Update on deadly officer-involved shooting in Chula Vista at Rutgers and Otay Lakes Rd Posted by Abbie Alford on Monday, July 20, 2020

Lt. Peak said it appeared the suspect lost control of the truck in that area crashing into another car which ended up on its side. The person in the other vehicle was taken to a trauma center with potentially serious head injuries, according to police. Peak said it was believed that person was a member of the military. On Tuesday, authorities said he is expected to recover.

After the suspect crashed he exited the truck on foot armed with a handgun and tried to gain access to a nearby home. A person inside the home saw Angulo and shut the door not allowing him to get inside. According to Lt. Peak, there was a family including children inside the residence.

Lt. Peak said at that time Angulo turned toward officers and shouted that he had a gun which. He reportedly refused multiple orders from officers then an unknown number of shots were fired between CVPD officers and the suspect. Lt peak said it was unknown who fired first but that Angulo fired at least one round. At least three officers were involved.

No law enforcement officers were injured in the shooting.

Police attempted life-saving measures on Angulo after he was shot but he died at the scene, according to Peak.

Peak said Angulo was wanted by a Fugitive Apprehension Team Task Force for an attempted homicide that occurred June 4 in Chula Vista. There was also reportedly probable cause to arrest Angulo for another attempted murder shooting that occurred June 22 also in Chula Vista. He was also a person of interest in another attempted homicide shooting in the City of San Diego.

Peak said there were a gun and shell casings found next to Angulo's body.

Lt. Peak said the investigation was ongoing and police would be on the scene throughout the night.

"This was a tragic incident for everyone involved," Peak said.

Editor's note: An earlier version of this story indicated that the suspect gained access to a home after crashing the truck in Chula Vista. Authorities later clarified that he was unable to get in the home.