MONROE — Faced with spending the rest of his life in prison, Harold McCord Jr. fashioned a phony handgun out of cardboard and toilet paper Monday and bluffed his way out of the Pierce County Courthouse.

McCord's freedom ended yesterday afternoon after he armed himself with a real gun.

Confronted by police at a busy Monroe apartment complex, McCord exchanged fire with officers and was fatally shot. A Monroe police sergeant was wounded.

The officer, Sgt. Eduardo Ed Jany, the leader of a police Special Emergency Response Team (SERT), suffered gunshot wounds to his right ring finger and his left arm, according to Monroe Police Chief Tim Quenzer. The wounds were not considered life-threatening.

Jany, 39, and McCord were taken first to Valley General Hospital in Monroe and then airlifted to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle, where McCord was pronounced dead at 5:32 p.m. Jany, who had surgery yesterday, was in stable condition last night and is expected to fully recover.

Jany, who has been with Monroe police since 1994, is a member of the department's K-9 squad. Jany served in the Army Special Forces and in the Marine Corps Reserve. He recently returned from military service after a year and a half of active duty, according to the Monroe Police Department Web site.

Jany was one of eight Monroe and Bothell officers who constituted the response team sent to the Morning Run Apartments at 18463 Blueberry Lane S.E. Pierce County sheriff's officials contacted Monroe police after receiving a tip on McCord's possible whereabouts through a Pierce County Crimestoppers hotline.

Police were able to verify that McCord was at the complex, although Snohomish County sheriff's spokeswoman Jan Jorgensen declined to say how the information was obtained. The officers went to the apartment complex armed with a search warrant. The officers knocked on the door of one unit. Jorgensen said McCord yelled from inside, threatening the officers and warning them he had a gun.

The officers kicked in the door and exchanged gunfire with McCord, Jorgensen said. It wasn't clear who fired first, and she wasn't sure whether a gun was found at the scene. McCord reportedly was shot five times, several of the gunshots hitting him in the chest.

Residents heard the gunfire.

"I heard them order him (the suspect) to the ground," said Juan Carranza, 21. "I saw cops carry him out by his legs and his arms and drop him on the grass in front of the apartments. He was all bloody and he wasn't moving at all. It didn't look good."

Several children said they later saw McCord lying in the grass outside the building after officers carried him from the apartment.

Other witnesses saw the wounded officer outside immediately after the shooting clutching his bleeding arm.

"Officers in full gear were taking his vest off and helping him," said Mara Bottjer, 13. "That's when the ambulances and other police cars began arriving."

The wounded officer was "awake and alert" while being taken to the hospital, according to medic crews.

Harold McCord Jr.

"Our guys feel bad that one of their guys got wounded, because it was our case," said Pierce County Sheriff's Detective Ed Troyer. "We would have gladly much rather taken their place."

Troyer said Crimestoppers Tacoma/Pierce County received several anonymous tips yesterday morning linking McCord to the Monroe complex. He wouldn't discuss the tips further, citing protection of anonymous sources.

But he said it matched with other information obtained by Pierce County sheriff's deputies Monday night after they raided several homes in the Tacoma area.

"We didn't know for sure, but we had a strong probability he was up there," Troyer said. "But we weren't just going to go knock on the door."

Pierce County called Monroe police yesterday and asked them to investigate the second-floor apartment.

Snohomish County sheriff's officials said later that McCord was alone in the apartment at the time of the shooting. They aren't sure how McCord managed to make it to Monroe after escaping from the Pierce County Courthouse.

Jorgensen said police want to speak with the residents of the apartment.

"We don't know that anyone was harboring him, but if they were, that's very much against the law," she said.

The Snohomish County Sheriff's Office late last night arrested a 51-year-old woman for allegedly helping McCord. The woman was either renting or living at the apartment, said Jorgensen.

The woman will appear in Snohomish County District Court this afternoon for a bail hearing.

McCord was a so-called "third-striker," and state law requires life-without-parole prison terms for people convicted of three violent offenses. On June 13, McCord was sentenced for a March kidnapping and assault of his ex-girlfriend at a Tacoma bus stop. It was his third violent offense.

The bulk of his lengthy criminal history occurred in the mid- to late-1980s and includes assault, robbery, domestic violence and possession of stolen property.

On Monday morning, he fooled law-enforcement officers with a fake .25-caliber handgun and escaped from the Pierce County Courthouse in Tacoma. McCord had just finished a brief hearing in a fifth-floor courtroom. Before officers could put his handcuffs and shackles back on, he bolted out of the courtroom.

One of the officers chased him down the hallway and tackled him. Then they rolled around on the floor. Two other officers nearby pulled out their guns and ordered McCord to surrender. But McCord was pointing the fake gun at the first officer's head and said he was going to shoot. The officers lowered their weapons.

Authorities say McCord cut a three-dimensional model of a .25-caliber handgun out of the back of a hard cardboard note tablet. Then he stuffed it with toilet paper, wrapped it with newspaper and painted it black with a pen. McCord even etched fake grooves on the side. He hijacked a truck and fled. The truck was discovered later Monday near the Tacoma Mall.

The "gun" was found on the ground near South 14th and South G streets.

Yesterday in Monroe, the 220-unit apartment complex was teeming with children in the moments before the shooting. Witnesses said at least 20 kids were running around the parking lots, swimming in the nearby pool and hanging out in the playground during the raid.

Taylah Moore, 14, was walking with friends through the complex when she spotted two black-clad officers.

"They had the full SWAT outfits and rifles — they were kind of hunched over, crawling in back of the apartment building, looking for somebody," she said. "They told us to go away, go run and tell the (apartment) manager."

Angel Sanchez, 13, had just climbed out of the pool when he heard about the team of officers.

"I saw two or three of them hiding in the bushes," Angel said. "It was kind of freaky — exciting and creepy at the same time."

Gunfire — about six shots — erupted after Angel went inside his nearby apartment, he said. His little sister, 8-year-old Mayra Sanabria, heard it, too.

"I got pretty scared," she said.

Kevin Betschart, 13, said he later found a bullet hole in the gutter over his mother's bedroom.

Seattle Times staff reporters Michael Ko and Jonathan Martin contributed to this report.