The suicidal man who prompted sheriff's deputies to fire on him in the Village of Waukesha on Wednesday has died from his injuries.

The Waukesha County Sheriff's Office on Thursday identified the man in a news release as Scott M. Kontowicz, 37, a resident of the village.

Kontowicz was pronounced dead at an area hospital Thursday morning, less than a day after he suffered gunshot wounds following a standoff with sheriff's deputies outside his home.

Deputies responded to the home around 6 p.m. after dispatchers received a 911 call indicating a man was suicidal, had poured gasoline over himself and was armed with a rifle, according to a news release.

The deputies found Kontowicz outside the home. Based on preliminary information released through noon Thursday, it's unclear what transpired from when police arrived until the shooting.

In an earlier press release, the sheriff's office only said three deputies were "involved in an officer-involved shooting," but it was not immediately clear who shot the man or what led up to the shooting.

While none of the deputies were injured, Kontowicz was taken to a local hospital for his "substantial" injuries. The sheriff's office issued a statement expressing sorrow over that outcome.

"The Waukesha County Sheriff’s Department would like to send our condolences to the family of Mr. Kontowicz," Lt. Nicholas Ollinger said. "Our thoughts and prayers are also with the deputies that were involved."

Authorities did not release the address at which the incident occurred. However, online public records listed Kontowicz as a resident in the W 22500 block of Sage Court. Reports did not confirm whether the incident happened there.

The Waukesha Police Department will lead the investigation into the case at the request of the sheriff's office. Waukesha Police Capt. Dan Baumann clarified Thursday that the investigation as an officer-involved shooting is being conducted by the police department alone, outside the purvey of the Milwaukee Area Investigative Team responsible for similar investigations.

The incident caused some confusion for area residents on Wednesday evening, when an emergency alert was sent to cell phones asking them to stay inside and lock their doors. The alert was intended to be sent only to residents in the area south of Lawnsdale Road and west of Highway 164, but residents across the county said they received the alert.

What caused the technical glitch wasn't immediately clear.

Contact Sophie Carson at (414) 223-5512 or scarson@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter at @SCarson_News.