Community

OIS 2020-02 JUNE 29, 2020

**The following information is based on a preliminary and ongoing investigation, which continues to evolve as investigators interview witnesses, review physical and electronic records, and analyze forensic evidence. The Department's understanding of the facts and circumstances may change as additional evidence is collected and analyzed.**

On Monday, June 29, 2020, at approximately 3:37pm, Pomona Police Dispatch received a request for assistance from the Foothill Air Support Team with the arrest of a suspect wanted for murder by the Fresno Police Department.

Officers began following the suspect on the 10-East Freeway at Towne Ave. in the City of Pomona. Officers followed the suspect at a safe distance for several minutes before the suspect exited the freeway at Monte Vista Ave. in the City of Montclair. The suspect pulled the car over along the curb, exited his vehicle, and pointed a gun at officers and that is when an Officer Involved Shooting took place. The Officers involved were Officers Cynthia Burciaga, Sean Gonzalez, Vaneric Mendoza, and Sergeant William Knight. The suspect was struck by gunfire and Officers rendered medical aid until the Montclair Fire Department arrived on scene.

The suspect was taken to a local area hospital where he later succumbed to his injuries.

The incident was captured on the Officers body-worn-cameras as well as the dashboard camera in the police vehicle.

The Pomona Police Department remains committed to accountability and transparency- in use of force encounters and all situations.

WARNING: The images and language you are about to see and hear may be disturbing. Viewer discretion is strongly advised.

*PLEASE COPY AND PASTE THE LINK INTO A NEW WINDOW/TAB*



To view the video, visit: https://youtu.be/1HzWqmnBinY

To view the video in Spanish, visit: https://youtu.be/T07xGruBX7g

OIS 2020-03 JULY 5, 2020

**The following information is based on a preliminary and ongoing investigation, which continues to evolve as investigators interview witnesses, review physical and electronic records, and analyze forensic evidence. The Department's understanding of the facts and circumstances may change as additional evidence is collected and analyzed.**

On Sunday, July 5 2020, at approximately 6:05pm, Pomona Police Officers Edgar Rodriguez, Manny Rodriguez, and Sergeant Rick Aguiar responded to multiple 9-1-1 calls regarding a man brandishing and pointing a gun at people in the 2700 block of S. Reservoir Street in the City of Pomona and near Reservoir Avenue and Riverside Drive in the City of Chino. One caller reported the suspect pointed a gun, causing him to veer off the side of the road and crash. Another caller reported the suspect pointed a gun at her, in what was deemed to be an attempted carjacking.

Officers arrived on scene and located the suspect, but temporarily lost sight of him. The suspect fled with the weapon into a nearby industrial area in the 3300 block of Riverside Drive, in the City of Chino. For several minutes, Officers searched on foot for the suspect in an area where they believed he was attempting to hide. Officers located the suspect near a loading dock in the industrial complex and upon making contact, the suspect emerged into a shooting stance and pointed a gun at Officers and that is when an Officer Involved Shooting took place. The suspect was struck by gunfire and succumbed to his injuries at the scene.

The Pomona Police Department remains committed to accountability and transparency- in use of force encounters and all situations.

WARNING: The images and language you are about to see and hear may be disturbing. Viewer discretion is strongly advised.

*PLEASE COPY AND PASTE THE LINK INTO A NEW WINDOW/TAB*



To view the video, visit: https://youtu.be/Z45BZp-mhUI

To view the video in Spanish, visit: https://youtu.be/d2pRXn4auPA