RICHMOND — Police said they were at the scene of a person who apparently fatally shot himself after leading officers responding to reports of a gunman on a chase, authorities said Thursday.

Shortly before 7:30 p.m., police received a call reporting a sighting of a man with a gun off Valley View Avenue near De Anza High School, Richmond police Sgt. Aaron Pomeroy said.

Officers responded to the area and found a vehicle whose driver fled when they tried to make contact. After a half-mile pursuit along Valley View onto the 5200 block of Amend Road, the vehicle stopped.

Richmond police officers responded to the 5000 block of Amend Rd. following a report of a man with a gun. The incident has been resolved and there is no risk to the public. Please avoid the area while the investigation continues. pic.twitter.com/w5cRxZl2jm — Richmond Police, CA (@RPDCAOnline) July 24, 2020

When officers approached the vehicle, they found its driver, identified only as male, suffering from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Officers provided emergency life-saving measures, but the person was pronounced dead soon after, Pomeroy said.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Feds charge 5 men in $1.1 million takeover robbery of East Bay jewelry store, appeared to get help from insider law enforcement source

Feds charge 5 men in $1.1 million takeover robbery of East Bay jewelry store, appeared to get help from insider law enforcement source Crime and Public Safety | Man fatally shot in West Oakland

Man fatally shot in West Oakland Crime and Public Safety | Lawyers for tech consultant Nima Momeni say he had no reason to kill Cash App founder Bob Lee

Lawyers for tech consultant Nima Momeni say he had no reason to kill Cash App founder Bob Lee Crime and Public Safety | Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980

Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980 Crime and Public Safety | Two fires at Berkeley apartment building investigated as possible arsons No officers were injured and police did not discharge their weapons, Pomeroy said.

Check back for updates.

Contact George Kelly at 408-859-5180.