The lone survivor in a July 27 crash and the family of two victims who died have filed a wrongful death lawsuit against a suspect who fled and two Shively Police officers who chased him.

The lawsuit, filed Monday in Jefferson Circuit Court, seeks an unspecified amount of punitive and compensatory damages for negligence and for the wrongful deaths of Annjanette "Nicole" Senter and her son, Stephaun Dotson.

The plaintiffs are Tyesha Senter, Nicole's sister; and Kendrick Ray, a family friend who was driving the vehicle carrying Senter, Dotson and a 9-month-old they were babysitting when a pickup truck fleeing police struck them.

Just before the crash, the truck reached speeds of 116 mph in a 35 mph zone on the wrong side of Dixie Highway.

Ray and the others were on their way home from picking up diapers for the baby, traveling east on Crums Lane. Traveling 16 mph under a green light, he crossed Dixie Highway when the suspect smashed into the rear passenger side of their sedan going 98 mph, according to data obtained by the victims' attorneys.

The truck also hit another vehicle immediately after. Those passengers sustained minor injuries.

Background: Shively Police chase policy loosened hours before crash

The lawsuit names Christopher Nelson and Tommy Breitmeyer, two Shively Police officers who, in separate vehicles, pursued when the suspect fled a restaurant parking lot. The officers were dispatched in response to a domestic violence 911 call.

Shively Police officials have said the officers believed a victim might have been in the truck. There was no internal investigation into the officers' conduct.

"The thing we keep coming back to in this case is it was such a reckless decision (to chase). There was no good outcome," said Jonathan Hollan, one of the attorneys representing Ray and Senter. "There are two ways these things go: There's a crash or the car gets away. Every single time."

Hollan said Ray sustained severe injuries he's still recovering from, including a lacerated liver and spleen, internal bleeding and numerous orthopedic injuries.

The lawsuit also names Guy L. Brison, the suspected driver who police say fled on foot after the crash. He was arrested in August for three counts of murder, nine counts of first-degree wanton endangerment, receiving stolen property worth more than $10,000 and evading police.

Read more: How a domestic violence call became a police chase in Shively

A juvenile passenger in the truck also was charged but not named in the lawsuit.

An accident report provided by attorneys shows the truck hit the car's rear-passenger side head-on, where Dotson was sitting. He died at the scene.

The impact spun the car about 50 feet, where it stopped on Seventh Street Road — which forks from Dixie Highway at its intersection with Crums.

Senter, who was in the front seat and was not wearing a seatbelt, was thrown through a side door opening, the crash report said. She died the next day, and the baby followed Aug. 3.

For Ray, the mental and emotional impact is going to be the hardest part, Hollan said.

"The survivor's guilt is real," Hollan said, "even though he didn't do a damn thing wrong."

Restrictive chase policy

The Shively Police Department's restrictive chase policy is written to take the decision out of the hands of officers at the scene, Hollan told The Courier Journal.

According to the policy, officers are required to measure the risk versus reward, which includes considering factors such as traffic speeds and density, visibility and time of day. The circumstances under which officers are allowed to take chase in the first place are limited.

The lawsuit says the officers' decision to partake in a high-speed chase was "dangerous, reckless and unlawful," given Dixie Highway is one of the most congested roads in the city.

Hollan said the officers then chose to continue the efforts to detain the suspects rather than render aid.

7 dead, 58 hurt: Do Louisville police need to slam the brakes on high-speed pursuits?

The morning of the crash, the department loosened its police pursuit policy, allowing officers to chase stolen vehicles in certain circumstances. The truck was stolen, but officers didn't know it when they took chase, police said.

An October 2019 Courier Journal investigation found when the Louisville Metro Police Department loosened rules governing when officers could give chase, they engaged in more pursuits.

Chase-related injuries and deaths increased after the changes.

"The risk versus the reward, it’s just not even close," Hollan said, adding that the department should be ashamed of itself for loosening restrictions.

Kala Kachmar is an investigative reporter. Reach her at 502-582-4469; kkachmar@courierjournal.com or @NewsQuip on Twitter.