Fatal Crash Of Motorcyclist Who Fled PA Police Under Investigation In Carroll Co.

July 27, 2020

(SILVER RUN, MD) – Maryland State Police in Carroll County are investigating a fatal motorcycle crash that is believed to have occurred after the operator refused to stop for a police officer in Pennsylvania early today.

The deceased is identified as Denton Shively, 28, of Hampstead, Md. He was pronounced deceased at the scene by emergency medical services personnel. His body has been transported to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in Baltimore for an autopsy.

Shortly before 3:30 a.m. today, Maryland State Police at the Westminster Barrack responded to the report of a single vehicle crash on southbound Rt. 97 near Arters Mill Road. State Police were notified of the crash through the Adams County PA 911 center.

Responding troopers found the single vehicle fatal crash involved a 2016 Yamaha FZ09 motorcycle. An officer from the Littlestown (PA) Police Department was already on the scene. The Maryland State Police Crash Team responded to the scene and assumed the investigation.

The preliminary investigation indicates the motorcycle was southbound on Rt. 97 when it left the southbound shoulder and struck a utility pole. The cause and contributing factors of the crash remain under investigation. Investigators have determined the motorcycle was unregistered and the operator did not have a motorcycle endorsement on his driver’s license.

Investigating troopers learned from the Littlestown (PA) Police Department that an officer had attempted to stop the motorcycle in their jurisdiction. The operator of the motorcycle refused to stop and accelerated away. The officer continued in the direction the motorcycle was heading and came upon the crash scene. The officer called for emergency medical services personnel to respond and provided emergency care to the motorcyclist until EMS units arrived.

MDOT State Highway Administration personnel assisted with a detour around the crash scene.

The Maryland State Police investigation is continuing. Questions regarding the attempted traffic stop should be directed to the Littlestown Police Department.