Cops had just shown up to break up a crowd at Garden St., near Prospect Ave. in Belmont at about 5:40 a.m. Sunday, July 26, when gunman Joam Casado (not pictured) allegedly pulled out a gun and shot 24-year-old Juan Carlos Ortega (pictured) in the head on nearby Grote St. in the Bronx.

A New Jersey mechanic shot dead while attending a gathering in the Bronx was killed in front of a police officer, authorities said Monday.

Cops had just shown up to disperse a crowd at Garden St., near Prospect Ave. in Belmont at about 5:40 a.m. Sunday when gunman Joam Casado, 39, pulled out a gun and shot 24-year-old Juan Carlos Ortega in the head on nearby Grote St., police said.

Advertisement

“Get one or two units for crowd control,” one of the officers told a radio dispatcher when arrived. “There’s a lot of people.”

Moments later, the same officer started shouting, “Shots fired! Shots fired!”

Advertisement

Two men were shot on Grote Street and Prospect Avenue in the Bronx on Sunday, July 26. (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News)

Cops arrested Casado on the scene after a brief chase. He’s charged with murder, manslaughter and weapon possession. A second man, 20, was shot in the groin.

The criminal complaint against Casado alleges a police officer saw the fatal shot. Casado was ordered held without bail at his arraignment in Bronx Criminal Court Sunday.

Cops had just shown up to break up a crowd at Garden St., near Prospect Ave. in Belmont at about 5:40 a.m. Sunday when gunman Joam Casado, 39, pulled out a gun and shot 24-year-old Juan Carlos Ortega in the head on nearby Grote St., police said. (Theodore Parisienne/for New York Daily News)

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Ortega’s family members said Monday they have no idea who Casado is, or why their loved one was in the Bronx. Ortega usually hung out in Perth Amboy with his girlfriend, his family said.

“He’s a good guy,” said his uncle, Leo Ortega, 63, who’s lived with the victim and his siblings since he was 12, when their father died.

Ortega went to Lincoln Technical Institute, where he got his certification, his uncle said. “He’s a mechanic, auto mechanic.... Me and him live together for 13 years, I never have a problem with him.”

A small memorial is pictured on the sidewalk outside Juan Carlos Ortega’s Perth Amboy home on Monday, July 27. (Gabriella DePinho/New York Daily News)

Ortega was a lifelong Yankees fan, his family said.

“He loved cars,” said Ortega’s aunt, Aracelis Ortega, 39. “He was in love with cars, fixing them.”

She added, “He was a good friend, brother, and son... He was really loving in the family, always there for people.”

Advertisement

With Gabriella DePinho