Alabama High Speed Chase Ends With Fatal Crash In Cantonment

A high speed chase of a stolen vehicle that began in Bay Minette ended with a fatal crash some 60 miles away in Cantonment Saturday morning.

The chase ended on Highway 29 in Cantonment near the Companion Animal Clinic when the driver entered the median, lost control and traveled off the roadway into a tree, according to a witness. The suspect was pronounced dead on the scene by Escambia County EMS.

The Florida Highway Patrol said investigators were not able identify the suspect on scene because he had no identification on his person.

For a photo gallery from the crash scene, click here.

The owner of the truck told NorthEscambia.com that he was inside the Jet Pep convenience store on Highway 31 near Coastal Alabama Community College in Bay Minette when the clerk asked if that was his truck being driven away.

Bay Minette Police said one of their officers spotted the stolen vehicle near McMeans Avenue and West 7th Street.

“The officer attempted to stop the suspected stolen vehicle and the driver of that vehicle refused to stop. A vehicle pursuit was initiated,” Bay Minette Police said in a statement. “The pursuit continued into Escambia Florida, where the suspected stolen vehicle contacted a Bay Minette patrol car. This contact caused the stolen vehicle to lose control and strike a tree on Highway 29 in Escambia County Florida….During the vehicle pursuit the driver of the stolen vehicle struck two Bay Minette Police cars multiple times intentionally.”

Bay Minette Police and the Baldwin County Sheriff’s Office chased the king cab Chevrolet pickup truck out of Bay Minette and into Escambia County, Alabama. Atmore Police Chief Chuck Brooks said his department was notified of the chase, and one of his officers followed at a safe distance on Highway 31 from Cindebran Drive and south on Main Street to the Florida line.

Video obtained by NorthEscambia.com (posted below), shows Bay Minette Police and the Baldwin County Sheriff’s Office continuing to chase the vehicle south on Highway 97. The FHP said the Bay Minette Police Department was the lead agency on the chase.

Witnesses also told NorthEscambia.com that the chase traveled into Cottage Hill on Williams Ditch Road and onto Wishbone Road, a dead end street. That’s where the truck was temporarily blocked in by a black law enforcement vehicle. Witnesses said the driver then turned around and headed directly toward an struck a Bay Minette officer’s Tahoe.

Another witness said that a “black tahoe” and other black law enforcement vehicles were directly behind the truck when it wrecked on Highway 29. Sgt. Melanie Peterson of the Escambia County (FL) Sheriff’s Office said that ECSO assisted but did not participate directly in the chase.

The vehicle owner described the suspect only as a white male.

“I didn’t get a good look at him,” the owner of the truck said. “I just saw him drive away.”

At the time he spoke exclusively to NorthEscambia.com, the truck’s owner said he had not yet been contacted by police, but he had about the crash.

“The keys were in the vehicle,” he said. “…But things always have a way of working themselves out.”

The investigation into the crash is continuing by the Florida Highway Patrol.

NorthEscambia.com photos by Kristi Barbour, click to enlarge.