Crime & Safety Court Order Needed For Body Cam Footage Release: MPD Chief Here's why Mooresville Police Chief Rob Campurciani said the body cam footage from the fatal officer shooting hasn't been released. Reply

Here's why Mooresville Police Chief Rob Campurciani said the body cam footage from the fatal officer shooting hasn't been released. (Shutterstock)

MOORESVILLE, NC — Footage from body cameras worn by Mooresville police officers involved in a fatal shooting earlier this month and still under investigation is not considered public record and cannot be released without a court order, MPD's chief said Friday.

Two Mooresville Police Department officers involved in the incident were placed on administrative leave Aug. 4, two days after the officer-involved shooting that left a 38-year-old man dead. According to a news release, the police department said the incident began around 9:30 p.m. Aug. 2 when officers were called to 226 Heritage Place for a domestic violence incident and an assault.

According to the release, the 911 caller told police the subject of the call, Christopher Kimmons Craven, was still on the scene, was armed and had threatened to take his own life.

Officers arrived at the address and found Craven outside the house with a handgun, police said. Officers then asked Craven to show his hands multiple times. The news release states Craven then reached toward his waist and brandished a gun, prompting two police officers to fire at Craven, striking him.

Both police officers and Iredell County EMS workers performed CPR and first aid on Craven, but he was ultimately pronounced dead at the scene, police said. SEE ALSO: One Dead In Sunday Officer Involved Shooting In Mooresville

"This investigation is still active and ongoing. Once the investigation is concluded by the SBI, all information will be turned over to the District Attorney’s Office for review," Mooresville Chief of Police Rob Campurciani said in an Aug. 14 statement. "Although I understand why some people would like for us to publicly release the video recordings from the body cameras, there are two factors prohibiting us from doing so at this time," he said. "These recordings are not considered public records as defined by NC General Statute 132-1 and we are prohibited from releasing them to anyone unless by court order. Also, the SBI has not concluded their investigation, nor has the District Attorney reviewed the details of the incident."