A woman has died in an officer-involved shooting in Fort Dodge Tuesday evening, the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation confirmed.The Fort Dodge Messenger reports Fort Dodge police and Webster County deputies were called to 1518 20th Avenue South just after 7 p.m. on a report of a suicidal female armed with two knives and acting erractically.The newspaper reports there was a report of shots fired at the same location minutes later. A neighbor told the newspaper he saw the woman run toward a deputy armed with a knife in each hand. He said that’s when the deputy fired at the woman.The newspaper reports the unidentified woman died at the scene and was transported to the State Medical Examiner in Ankeny for an autopsy. The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation has taken over the investigation.Webster County Sheriff’s Chief Deputy Rod Strait told The Messenger the deputy that was involved in the shooting was placed on leave pending the results of the investigation. The deputy has not yet been named.“This is a complicated scene when officers are involved,” Strait told the newspaper. “It’s difficult for everyone involved.”DCI officials confirmed the investigation.This story is developing. Check the KCCI Breaking News and Weather App for updates.

A woman has died in an officer-involved shooting in Fort Dodge Tuesday evening, the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation confirmed.

The Fort Dodge Messenger reports Fort Dodge police and Webster County deputies were called to 1518 20th Avenue South just after 7 p.m. on a report of a suicidal female armed with two knives and acting erractically.

Advertisement

The newspaper reports there was a report of shots fired at the same location minutes later. A neighbor told the newspaper he saw the woman run toward a deputy armed with a knife in each hand. He said that’s when the deputy fired at the woman.

The newspaper reports the unidentified woman died at the scene and was transported to the State Medical Examiner in Ankeny for an autopsy. The Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation has taken over the investigation.

Webster County Sheriff’s Chief Deputy Rod Strait told The Messenger the deputy that was involved in the shooting was placed on leave pending the results of the investigation. The deputy has not yet been named.

“This is a complicated scene when officers are involved,” Strait told the newspaper. “It’s difficult for everyone involved.”

DCI officials confirmed the investigation.

This story is developing. Check the KCCI Breaking News and Weather App for updates.