OAKLAND (CBS SF) -- A stolen vehicle suspect was killed early Thursday in an officer-involved shooting that began in San Leandro and ended following a crash on an Oakland street, authorities said.

According to San Leandro police, they received a call at about 11 p.m. from the Alameda County Sheriff's Office about a Black Acura Integra. The deputies said they had been in pursuit of the car, reporting it may have been stolen and the driver may be armed.

A short time later, patrol officers spotted the Acura on East 14th Street near the intersection of Durant Avenue. They attempted a traffic stop, but the driver failed to yield and a pursuit started.

The chase continued into Oakland where the suspect crashed into the rear of an unoccupied parked tractor-trailer truck in the 10400 block of Pearmain Street.

The force of the impact wedged the Acura underneath the back of the truck.

After the crash, authorities said, the driver immediately exited his vehicle holding an assault rifle. At the same time, a San Leandro police K9 was released toward the suspect and the officer fired his weapon.

The suspect ran north on Pearmain Street then ran east on Apple Street before ducking into the front yard of a residence. The officer ran after the man and discharged his service weapon again, striking the suspect in his upper torso.

Despite life-saving measures, the man died from his injuries at the scene. His identity has not been released.

Investigators said that no officers were injured and the weapon was recovered at the scene.

Along the path of the foot chase, KPIX 5 found at least two vehicles with bullet holes and broken glass.

When asked if the suspect was holding the weapon in a way that the officer feared for his life, San Leandro Police Lt. Ted Henderson replied, "So that we don't know. The officer, of course, is on paid administrative leave right now. He will be interviewed tomorrow."

The San Leandro police K9 ran off during the officer-involved shooting and was later found safe back in San Leandro more than a mile and a half away from the crime scene after an intense search by officers and local residents.

The K9, a two-year-old Belgian Malinois named Kane who is new to the force, was missing for about eight hours.

"He was actually in the yard just sitting there. So when we pulled up and we called his name, his ears popped up. And obviously he knew that we were there for him and he stuck around," said San Leandro Police Lt. Ali Khan. "We waited for a canine officer to show up and load him in the car and brought him here."

Because the shooting occurred in Oakland, the Oakland Police Department will be the lead law enforcement agency in charge of the criminal investigation.

Body cam footage has been handed over to Oakland police. San Leandro police said it's unclear if the suspect actually returned fire.

"There was a confrontation in the yard and during that confrontation. The officer then fired his weapon at the suspect -- as it played out, I guess, specifically -- once they entered that yard," said Henderson. "Like I said, we're still waiting on Oakland [police] to do their investigation, examine all the evidence, and then let us know."

The Alameda County District Attorney's Office will also conduct an independent investigation of the incident, as they do with all officer involved shootings that result in injury or death.

Kiet Do contributed to this report.