A wrongful death lawsuit in the death of 5-year-old Kamerynn Young, killed April 1, 2020 in a hit and run accident at the intersection of Parkway East and Springville Road, takes a deeper look at the Birmingham Police Department's policies when it comes to car chases. Dustin Martin is charged with reckless murder in the case, he was found the evening of the crash and arrested. The lawsuit, filed in May, originally focused Martin and his employer whose truck he was driving during the pursuit, but Courtney French, the attorney representing the Young family, tells us information from the Birmingham Police Department's own internal investigation shows the officers were in volition of their pursuit policy at the time of the high speed chase that led to Young's death. You can watch Fred Davenport's interview with Attorney Country French on the WVTM13 Facebook page. We have reached out to the Birmingham Police Department, but have not heard back.

A wrongful death lawsuit in the death of 5-year-old Kamerynn Young, killed April 1, 2020 in a hit and run accident at the intersection of Parkway East and Springville Road, takes a deeper look at the Birmingham Police Department's policies when it comes to car chases.



Dustin Martin is charged with reckless murder in the case, he was found the evening of the crash and arrested.



The lawsuit, filed in May, originally focused Martin and his employer whose truck he was driving during the pursuit, but Courtney French, the attorney representing the Young family, tells us information from the Birmingham Police Department's own internal investigation shows the officers were in volition of their pursuit policy at the time of the high speed chase that led to Young's death.



You can watch Fred Davenport's interview with Attorney Country French on the WVTM13 Facebook page.



This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Advertisement

We have reached out to the Birmingham Police Department, but have not heard back.