DOVER, Fla. — A suspect was shot and killed early Friday in Dover near Interstate 4 after an exchange of gunfire with deputies.

According to the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office, Nicholas Kocolis, 51, was shot by deputies after firing shots at them in a Burger King parking lot near Newsome Road in Dover.

Authorities said Kocolis fired multiple shots at deputies, forcing three deputies to return fire. Kocolis was struck and died from his injuries at the scene. No deputies were hit or injured.

What You Need To Know Authorities: Deputies shoot, kill suspect early Friday in Dover



Sheriff's deputies had been searching for Nicholas Kocolis, 51



Kocolis had kidnapped ex-girlfirend at gunpoint earlier in the day, fired several gunshots Thursday afternoon

Shortly after midnight on Friday, deputies located Kocolis, who was earlier identified as the suspect in a shooting that occurred on Williams Road at 5:30 p.m. Thursday.

Deputies said Kocolis had waited outside his ex-girlfriend's home Thursday afternoon.

When she arrived home as the passenger in a truck, deputies said Kocolis approached a truck and shot the driver, then forced his ex-girlfriend into the driver’s seat.

Kocolis got into the passenger seat and ordered the female victim to drive. A short distance later, she crashed the truck into a water-filled culvert.

Deputy Involved Shooting: Nicholas Kocolis has a lengthy criminal history to include 16 years in prison for trafficking cocaine, he also served time for felon in possession of a firearm and burglary. pic.twitter.com/Ba82eTGw9Q — Chad Chronister (@ChadChronister) August 7, 2020

Deputies said as she got out of the truck and ran off, Kocolis fired gunshots at her. She was not injured.

A nearby Good Samiritan came to the woman's aid. As she got in that person's car, Kocolis again fired gunshots, striking the vehicle, according to deputies.

The ordeal caused the driver to crash a short distance later on Williams Road, just north of U.S. 92. Kocolis fled the scene, and through investigative measures, was later located at the Newsome Road location.

"We are extremely thankful that none of our deputies were hit. This very dangerous individual is off the streets, and he will not be able to victimize another person in this community,” said Sheriff Chad Chronister. “We believe this incident stems from domestic violence. I encourage anyone who may be the victim of abuse to reach out to one of the many resources available in Hillsborough County, such as the Spring of Tampa Bay at 813-247-SAFE (813-247-7233)."