ROBBINS, N.C. — A man killed by a Robbins police officer Monday night was firing a shotgun indiscriminately into the air and refused to drop the gun when police told him to do so, authorities said.

But the man's brother said he was distraught and that police should have tried to calm him down before shooting him.

Moore County Sheriff Ronnie Fields said officers confronted 35-year-old Chris Minor with a weapon behind the Robbins Mini Storage warehouse, at 226 E. Salisbury St., at about 8:30 p.m.

According to Minor's family members, he was shot as many as six times.

"It was not right. They should not have shot him that many times," Minor's brother, Robert Molesworth, said Tuesday. "Why do they carry Tasers and stuff for?"

NO TITLE PROVIDED

Fields said Minor was walking through downtown Robbins with a shotgun, shooting at random, before police confronted him.

Authorities said officers "made numerous attempts to disarm the suspect," but Minor refused to cooperate and did not put the firearm down. Police said Minor ran away from officers before the confrontation on Salisbury Street.

No officers were injured in the incident.

Molesworth said Minor had been drinking because he was distraught over his nephew's suicide last week and suspicions that his girlfriend was cheating on him.

"What led up to the shooting? His girlfriend out running around with people," Molesworth said.

He said Minor fired three shots into the air near the other boyfriend's home shortly before he was shot by police.

"Two minutes later, I heard six gunshots down here, and you know they shot him," Molesworth said.

Robbins Police Chief Lawson Thomas said his officers don't have body-worn cameras or dashboard cameras on their patrol cars. Investigators were checking surrounding businesses for possible surveillance video.

Both the Moore County Sheriff's Office and the State Bureau of Investigation are reviewing the shooting. The officer who shot Minor, whose name hasn't been released, has been placed on administrative leave per protocol.

NO TITLE PROVIDED

William Marvin Crabtree Jr., who owns a nearby Econo Mart, said he knew Minor for more than 20 years and heard the gunshots Monday night.

“It’s bad, you know, and it’s unfortunate to happen, " Crabtree said. “I had to shut the store down because of the danger. ... I heard some yelling and stuff, and then I heard multiple gunshots, and I stayed out here and helped them direct traffic."

Minor was an outgoing person who was always ready to help someone in need, Molesworth said.

"He helped people whoever needed help," he said. "It hurts that my brother's gone. He can rest in peace now."

Minor, who grew up in Robbins, is survived by three children.