When things were simpler, she celebrated being one of the shortest members of her basketball team. But on this August night, everything became much more complicated.

Dakota, 16, was a passenger in a car being driven by a man five years older. Bryan Keith Hamilton Jr., 21, was trying to outrun deputies from the Anderson County Sheriff's Office.

He was speeding down Clemson Boulevard in Anderson when he crashed into a taxi near Lowe's on Aug. 11.

After the crash, Hamilton threatened Dakota, according to her parents, Josh Starzyk and Sherry Britt, and their attorney, former state Rep. Bakari Sellers.

Dakota and Hamilton both got out of the crashed car and ran to a hilly, wooded area nearby.

Deputies caught up to them with the help of a police dog that was trained to track people.

Soon, there was gunfire.

Hamilton fatally shot himself in the head and fell on the teen, Sellers said. The dog was "mauling" her, he said.

Hearing gunfire, Anderson County deputies fired shots, too.

They shot Dakota five times, Sellers said.

She was shot in the neck and had several leg injuries, including a broken femur and tibia, according to Sellers, and one of the toes on her left foot was missing.

When the gunfire was over, Dakota was brought down the hill in handcuffs, Sellers said. A medic told deputies to remove them so the teen could receive treatment, he said. The Greer High School student was sent by medical helicopter to Prisma Health System's Greenville Memorial Hospital.

The dog had been shot by police during the confrontation and died the next day.

In the moments that followed, Anderson County Sheriff Chad McBride told reporters that his deputies had been "ambushed" in that area near Lowe's.

Two days later, Anderson County Coroner Greg Shore said an autopsy showed that Hamilton Jr. died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the right side of the head. Shore said the bullet retrieved from Hamilton during an autopsy Thursday matched his own gun.

It was the only bullet Hamilton had, Shore said.

Initial report:1 dead, another injured in shooting after Anderson deputies 'ambushed,' sheriff says

After the coroner's findings, McBride said that officers "believing they were fired upon, made a split-second decision" to fire their weapons.

"It's a very tragic incident," McBride said Aug. 13. "I feel that if I were in that same situation, I would have made the same decision."

Sellers said he intends to sue the Sheriff's Office on behalf of Dakota and her parents.

In an interview with the Anderson Independent Mail and The Greenville News last week, Sellers called for McBride "to tell the whole truth" about what happened that summer night.

What we know:Fatal shooting involving Anderson County sheriff's deputies

"There cannot be an ambush when there was one shot fired and that was a suicide shot," Sellers said. "There were no shots fired at law enforcement."

Sellers is not the only attorney on the case.

Ben Crump, a well-known civil rights lawyer, also is representing Dakota.

Crump also represents the family of George Floyd, the 46-year-old Black man who died May 25 after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes.

Crump said the Anderson County Sheriff's Office "misled" the public about what happened the night Dakota was shot. He has called for the agency to "be transparent" and to release any video of what happened that night.

The Independent Mail and The News have filed Freedom of Information Act requests seeking video footage and records related to the case.

In an interview Monday, McBride again defended his deputies.

"They heard a gunshot; they saw the muzzle flash," McBride said. "They made a split-second decision."

'Terrifying':Man in cab crash shares moments before shooting involving Anderson deputies

He said the teen and Hamilton knew deputies were pursuing them and had opportunities to end things differently.

The deputies had called out to them, he said.

"They said, 'We're coming and we have a canine,'" McBride said. "If they had complied like they should have, this wouldn't have happened."

McBride said Hamilton bears responsibility for what happened to the teen.

He said Dakota's parents do, too, for not properly supervising her.

"I'm not cold and heartless," McBride said. "I hate that anybody got shot. I don't want anybody to get shot. But we gave them (Dakota and Hamilton) every opportunity... to comply."

Sellers said Dakota was a friend of Hamilton's and was a roommate living with him and two other people in the days before the shooting. Sellers said the teen had had some "emotional issues" and "issues at home" prior to the shooting, but he called her living situation and her relationship to Hamilton "profoundly insignificant" when compared to what happened to her.

The shooting remains under investigation by the State Law Enforcement Division. Two deputies who were involved remain on paid administrative leave from the Sheriff's Office.

Britt said her daughter struggles to understand what happened and why. She said her daughter has been bullied on social media.

"She cries, and she doesn't understand things," Britt said.

Britt said her daughter loved playing basketball. But now her parents aren't sure if she'll play again.

Dakota wants an apology from the sheriff, her father said. Starzyk said his daughter was scared the night of the shooting.

"She got frightened, like any 16-year-old girl would," Starzyk said. "In the very end, she just assumed they (deputies) would help her. They did anything but."