Hide Transcript Show Transcript

a neighborhood woken up by a sound no one wants to hear. E heard a couple of gunshots, those gunshots signaling what would be the last night of Kenneth Reece's life. On August 11th, Reese called 911 saying his house near Garfield in Princeton was broken into. That led to an altercation. Broke to my house with guns. I shot one of them. I thought you were with the 911 operator telling him to hide. Hide somewhere. Reese tells the operator he still has a gun as he looks for cover behind a car. He stops talking to the 911 operator. Put your hands up. A PD starts down, Garfield saying they see people running. They find a witness. Did he have a gun? The witness says yes. And that man took off down the street, leaving a trail of blood. Police come up on the car. Reese was hiding behind. Let me see your your head. Let me see. Put your hands up. It's hard to tell what's going on here, but police say re shot at them at least once, and they found casings on scene from his gun, so they fired back after this. It's just too graphic to show you. Police moved to the other side of the car where you can hear Reese moaning in pain. They fatally shoot him, saying Reese was reaching for his gun. We followed the blood trail and he was right there. He was hiding behind it. We passed him, and also he popped out and fired shots out of.

Advertisement Lapel video shows what happened when officer shot local bartender Ken Reiss was a bartender and part-owner of Carraro’s & Joe’s Place



Share Copy Link Copy

An officer's lapel video and 911 calls are shedding more light on what happened the night an Albuquerque bartender was fatally shot by police. On Aug. 11, Ken Reiss calls 911 saying his house near Garfield and Princeton has been broken into – he tells he operator that led to an altercation. “Two men broke into my house with guns, I shot one of them. I thought there were police here but they are gone,” Reiss is heard telling a 911 operator. The 911 operator tells him to hide. Reiss tells the operator he still has a gun and as he looks for cover, behind a car, he stops talking to the 911 operator. Lapel shows Albuquerque Police officers starting down Garfield saying they see people running. They find a witness who tells officers they saw a man who had a gun take off down the street leaving a trail of blood. Then officers come up on the car Reiss was hiding behind and start yelling. “Hey, let me see your hands. Let me see your (expletive) hands now! Put your hands up,” officers say before several gunshots ring out.It's hard to tell what’s going on in the lapel video, but police say Reiss shot at them at least once, so they say they fired back. Investigators say they found casings on the scene from the gun belonging to Reiss. In the video, you can then see police move to the other side of the car and hear Reiss moaning in pain. Officers shoot again, saying Reiss was reaching for his gun. Reiss was a popular bartender and part-owner of Carraro’s & Joe’s Place across from the University of New Mexico.