Maury County Sheriff Bucky Rowland said his deputies acted appropriately in Sunday’s fatal officer-involved shooting in the rural Theta community north of Columbia.

The suspect, Thomas Moles, 35, died at the scene after being shot by the responding officers and the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is now investigating the shooting following in according to state procedures.

“I feel confident that out our deputies will be cleared from any wrong doing,” Rowland told The Daily Herald.

The sheriff said that his deputies were executing a search warrant at Moles’ residence when he entered a car and fled.

A preliminary report shared by the TBI on Monday indicates that at approximately 11 a.m. on Sunday, deputies arrived at a residence regarding a report of a stolen vehicle at the location.

Moles was pursued by deputies to an area near the intersection of Fire Tower Road and Chestnut Ridge Road in the Theta community.

There, on Fire Tower Road, the unpaved route came to an end and Moles was trapped between a dead end and a group of deputies.

“He could not go forward any more and he tuned his vehicle into a deadly weapon and deadly force was used,” Rowland said.

A preliminary report from the TBI states Moles allegedly attempted to ram a patrol vehicle leading to at least one deputy firing shots.

Moles was struck and pronounced dead at the scene.

“They were forced into a bad situation and they referred back to their training,” Rowland said. “I support their decision.”

No officers were injured during the incident and the officer who pulled the trigger has not been identified by the department, following the TBI’s policy.

“All of our deputies are safe,” Rowland said. “It takes a huge emotional toll when you go thorough something like this. I ask that our community pray for our deputies and the subject they were pursing. I ask that we be respectful of all the parties involved and I ask that we can all love forward from this.”

At the request of 22nd District Attorney General Brent Cooper, TBI Special Agents are investigating the circumstances that led to the shooting. TBI’s investigative findings will be shared with Cooper throughout the process for his consideration and review.

As the state’s “independent fact-finding agency,” the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation examines the majority of the state’s use-of-force cases involving members of a law enforcement agency.

The case remains an active and ongoing investigation and agents continue to gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence.

Rowland said he is confident the investigation will determine that the deputies acted well within their roles and use of force.

“We look forward to moving forward from this,” Rowland said.