A man Tased by police in west Tuscaloosa during an early Saturday morning altercation has died.

Kendrell Antron Watkins, 31, was pronounced dead at DCH Northport Medical Center at 2:57 a.m., authorities said.

The cause of death now is under investigation by members of the multi-agency Tuscaloosa Violent Crimes Unit who are not employed with the Tuscaloosa Police Department.

“Body camera and video evidence has been preserved and the department is fully cooperating with the investigation,” said Tuscaloosa Police Department spokeswoman Stephanie Taylor. “Both of the patrol officers involved will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is complete.”

Watkins was taken to the DCH Health System’s facility in Northport after Tuscaloosa police officers used a Taser to subdue him when he ran naked into the intersection of 15th Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.

Before his death, Watkins told emergency medical technicians that he had smoked synthetic marijuana earlier in the evening.

Watkins became unresponsive at the hospital and was pronounced dead, Taylor said.

The police department’s encounter with Watkins began about 11 p.m. Friday when a relative called 911 and reported that Watkins was “losing it” and causing property damage at a home in the Cherrystone neighborhood that was occupied by several adults and four children ranging from one-month to 9 years old.

Watkins had left by the time officers arrived and the officers spoke with his family members, who reported Watkins had been using drugs, Taylor said.

About one hour later, a woman went to TPD’s West Precinct to report that a man, later determined to be Watkins, was half-dressed in the empty parking lot of a shopping center off Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.

An officer responded and spoke with Watkins, asking if he needed assistance.

“Watkins stated he did not,” Taylor said, “and left the parking lot walking.”

As Watkins was departing, the officer who responded to the 911 call in Cherrystone arrived and realized Watkins was the suspect from the earlier complaint.

The two officers called out and asked Watkins to stop, but he ran away, Taylor said.

“The officers then requested medical personnel as Watkins continued to run while removing his clothing and acting erratically,” she said.

Watkins continued to run along 15th Street, refusing to comply with the officers’ verbal commands to stop, Taylor said.

After deploying the Taser, the officers engaged in a struggle on the ground for around 45 seconds.

Watkins was conscious when he arrived at the hospital but died about 90 minutes later.

“The cause of death is unclear,” Taylor said, “and an autopsy and toxicology screen will be conducted as part of the investigation.”

Reach Jason Morton at jason.morton@tuscaloosanews.com.

Omny - https://omny.fm/shows/listen-this-day-in-history/playlists/podcast/embed?style=cover&#38;size=square