Staff Writer

Galesburg Register-Mail

GALESBURG — A Galesburg police incident ended in a reported suicide by firearm Saturday. A man living on Day Street was pursued by police and went on to shoot himself when he was surrounded by police. Identification later found on the scene suggested that the man was living under a false name.

Russell Calhoun was wanted for warrants out of South Carolina for homicide. Police say he was living in Galesburg by the name of Dustin Jones.

Galesburg police reports say the incident began Saturday at 12:08 a.m., when officers were dispatched to the 1400 block of Day Street following reports of an unknown disturbance.

One call to police came from someone within the house, who was visiting her friend, Calhoun’s girlfriend. She said Calhoun had pulled a gun.

Another later call came from someone who observed a woman running out of the house carrying a child. This caller said she also heard several “pops” that could have been gunshots. The woman and child had left the scene in a white vehicle.

Calhoun’s girlfriend was one of three women on the front porch steps of the house when police arrived. She told officers that no woman had run out of the house with a child.

At the same time, another officer’s report says he observed an open door on the north side of the house near its garage, and a man later identified as Calhoun, in a red shirt, was beginning to walk out of the door.

The officer then told Calhoun to show his hands. When Calhoun ignored the commands, police ordered him to stop. The man entered the house and shut the door. Through a window near the door, an officer reported seeing Calhoun walking through the house with a black gun in his right hand.

An officer took position watching the door Calhoun had entered, and another officer watching the scene reported that the man had exited the house and was in the backyard east of the house.

Police tracked the man in the backyard, where he crouched under a trampoline with the gun in his hand. Police yelled for him to drop the gun. He then reportedly put the gun to his head as police continued yelling for him to drop the gun, and a single gunshot was heard. The man identified as Russell Calhoun’s body went limp, and he fell backward as the gun dropped to the ground.

Police later found an identification card near a window on the east side of the house. This card was reportedly one that had been issued to a Russel Calhoun, who was wanted for warrants out of South Carolina for homicide.

Speaking to The Register-Mail on Tuesday afternoon, Knox County Coroner Mark Thomas says preliminary autopsy findings suggest that Calhoun died of a single gunshot wound to the head, although he is still awaiting the toxicology report.

“I can tell you that the entrance wound is consistent with a hard contact wound of fire, meaning that the gun was touching his head,” Thomas said.

Matt Koester: (630) 808-4142; mkoester@register-mail.com