LAS CRUCES - On Saturday, Aug. 8, a group of children set up a table outside of a home on Bronze Hill Avenue in Santa Teresa. The table was decorated with a red, plastic table cloth and covered by a canopy, a white cooler sat beside the table.

A woman stood by the table with a plastic pitcher of freshly-made lemonade.

"Would you like something to drink," she asked, as the children busily worked to pull out chips, candy and other snacks from the cooler under the blazing sun and placed them on the table for sale.

A sign decorated with hearts, polka dots, green grass and a cross was posted in front of the table that read, "In loving memory of Danielle."

Who was Danielle?

Danielle Perez, 32, a daughter, a wife and a mother, was killed the day before Mother's day — at the intersection of Highway 273 and State Road 136, at the north end of Santa Teresa. A man, who was allegedly driving drunk and fleeing from police, caused a chain-reaction crash, resulting in the vehicle Danielle was driving getting crushed.

Three of Perez's five children were with her in the vehicle with her when she died. All sustained injuries in the crash.

Since her death, Perez's family has been struggling to heal from their sudden loss — and to stay afloat financially, physically and emotionally.

Danielle's younger brother, Daniel, said his sister's family was extremely close — which has been difficult for them to cope with, and he just doesn't have the same will to live anymore.

Isabella Perez, Danielle's mom, is helping now to raise her grandchildren. She's on leave from work, and takes her oldest and youngest grandchildren to physical therapy four days a week.

There are 10 children and four adults living under the same roof, because Danielle's family can't bear the thought of returning to their home. Danielle cared for everyone, the family said. She held her family together.

'I didn't know who was going to make it'

Seconds before Danielle's vehicle was struck, her husband of 17 years, Jerry Aguirre, had passed through the same intersection in his vehicle.

They'd been at a family gathering earlier that day and were on their way home.

At the same time, Sunland Park resident Eric Solis, 29, was fleeing from police in a high-speed chase, in his 2015 Ford Super Duty pickup truck. In an attempt to continue fleeing, police say Solis crossed the painted median and began heading northbound in a southbound lane.

Solis crashed into a 2015 Nissan Juke that was attempting to turn west onto State Road 136. But police say her vehicle was pushed forward and struck a 2015 Honda CRV waiting for the traffic light to turn green.

Authorities report that, because Solis's truck was traveling at such a speed, it ping-ponged after striking the Nissan Juke and struck a fourth vehicle, a 2013 Nissan Altima, driven by Danielle, head-on, as she was attempting to turn east on State Road 136 to State Road 273.

This caused Danielle's car to plunge almost completely off the roadway on the right shoulder, partially obstructing the right turning lane of southbound traffic.

Aguirre said he heard the crash, parked his car and ran. It was dark out so difficult to see.

Aguirre said he saw several other vehicles on his left-hand side that weren't his family's car, flashing police lights and then the truck.

"The truck was in the opposite side of oncoming traffic. Police were chasing him," he said, adding that he then looked to the right and saw Danielle's car thrown about 150 feet from where it should have been.

His 17-year-old daughter Alyzae, 14-year-old daughter Gysel and then 2-year-old son were in the car with Danielle. When Aguirre saw the crash, he said it felt as if his life had been taken away. He didn't know who, in his family, was going to make it.

He ran to help save them.

"It's something you don't want to see," he said.

Toxicology reports state Solis's blood-alcohol level at the time of the crash was 0.17 — just more than two times the legal limit of 0.08.

According to a New Mexico State Police spokesperson, it's estimated that Solis was traveling at 95 mph at the time of the collision.

Arrest and charges

Initially, Solis was charged with homicide by vehicle, driving without a license, the improper display of registration plate, failure to stop at a stop sign, failure to maintain traffic lane, aggravated fleeing from a law enforcement officer, driving with a suspended license, reckless driving and five counts of causing great bodily injury by vehicle with the enhancement of reckless driving, in Magistrate Court.

On June 3, Solis' charges were upgraded in Third Judicial District Court to first-degree murder, with a depraved mind — a decision handed down by Judge Conrad Perea.

Solis is still charged with five counts of causing great bodily harm by vehicle with the reckless driving enhancement, the failure to maintain traffic lanes, driving with a suspended license, reckless driving and the failure to stop at a stop sign.

He remains in jail pending trial.

She was the best thing

Since the crash, Aguirre said life has been extremely difficult. He and his family have been depressed since Danielle's death. They're living with relatives, because they haven't been able to return to the new home the couple had recently purchased.

"It's hard to keep going on with your life, knowing you don't have your partner — with my kids crying about her, asking about her. Something (is) empty in the world," Aguirre said.

Aguirre said his wife was a kind and positive person. She always listened to K-LOVE, a national Christian radio station, and had a good sense of humor.

"She was the best thing that came into my life," he said.

'If my mom was here, I'd be fine'

The last thing Danielle's daughter Alyzae remembers her mother doing, prior to the crash, is putting her little brother in his car seat. Sitting in the front seat next to her mom, Alyzae said she put her Air Pods on as they drove off towards home.

"That makes me sad, because I could have been talking to her," she said.

Alyzae said she kind of remembers turning onto the road, but doesn't remember the crash.

"I kind of woke up after it happened, when I was in the car still. I just remember a lot of weight on me. I couldn't get up or open my eyes. I was confused. I was hurting," she said.

Since the crash, Alyzae said it's been hard to get out of bed and she doesn't have much of an appetite. Though she remembered how to walk, there was a time when she didn't know if she'd be able to walk again.

Both of her femurs were broken in the crash, her left knee was destroyed, her tibia was broken, and she has torn ligaments and tendons in her left knee. Her left foot was damaged, she suffered from internal bleeding, the crash caused her to go into cardiac arrest, her wrist was fractured and her brain was shaken.

But Alyzae said she doesn't really care about the injuries. She just wants her mom back.

"I'd be fine. Even if happened and I couldn't walk ever again, I think I'd be fine if I had my mom but, like, having to deal with my injuries and then my mom's death... It's a lot," she said.

Recently Alyzae has begun walking with a walker. She goes to therapy two days a week and works on exercises at home. The physical therapy is painful, and she finds it exhausting.

'She was my everything'

On the day of the crash, 14-year-old Gysel — who was in the back seat of her mom's car with her little brother — said the last thing she remembers prior to arriving at the hospital is sitting at the stoplight.

Since then, life without her mother has been really hard.

"Waking up every morning without her, not hearing her voice no more, not going to the kitchen and seeing her face no more, it hurts. There (are) days where I can't get out of bed, because she's not here. There are days where I'm mad and angry at the world and I don't want to talk to nobody and I'm just sad," she said.

Gysel said it hurts, because she knows she can't bring her mother back. And the next time she'll see her mom, Danielle, again is when God comes back.

The day of the crash, Gysel said she and her mom were sitting in the backyard of the house on Bronze Hill Avenue talking and laughing. They took a walk together and she held her mom.

Even though life without her mom is difficult, Gysel said she still plans on graduating from high school and majoring in some form of medical-related industry in college.

"I forgive that guy that killed my mom. And I love him, just as I love God, just as I love my family. And I pray, every night, that he looks for God and he has a relationship with God — because the coming of Jesus is very soon. And I forgive him," she said.

Bethany Freudenthal can be reached at bfreudenthal@lcsun-news.com, 575-541-5449 or @bethanyfreuden1 on Twitter.

Read more: