ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (KRQE) – The Bernalillo County Sheriff’s Office held a news conference to provide additional details on the deadly deputy-involved shooting that took place on Monday, August 24 in Albuquerque.

During the conference, Bernalillo County Sheriff Manuel Gonzales stated that deputies responded to a 911 call regarding an armed individual who was wearing all black. Once at the scene, deputies made contact with the caller who was not allowing traffic to come into the area as he told authorities that the suspect in the area was armed with a handgun.

The incident was in the area of Florence Avenue and Palm Yucca Drive which includes land that belongs to the city and the county, in addition to private property owned by Sandia Pueblo where the suspect was located. Sheriff Gonzales states that deputies at the scene came into contact with the armed individual in a field. The man was later identified as David Sanchez.

According to BCSO, when deputies started giving announcements to Sanchez, he began firing. During a briefing, Gonzales said he received information that one of those rounds was fired at a residence in the area where Sanchez’ wife was known to be at although BCSO said she was not in the residence at the time of the incident.

BCSO says that Sanchez’s wife had filed a domestic violence order against him on August 10, 2020, but that it had not yet been served to him. Several rounds were also allegedly fired toward BCSO deputies who returned fire, striking Sanchez.

Medical attention was provided by six deputies to Sanchez as he was down, however, he died at the scene. Two deputies were involved in the shooting, though BCSO stated they will not be identified at this time for their safety.

“There’s been a host of killings in the United States and throughout the country, and we’ve had people show up to our scenes and at this point, we don’t believe it’s safe to release our deputies names in order to keep them and their families safe,” said Gonzales. “We will release them to you after but we will not release them at this public press conference.”

One deputy has served with BCSO for seven years and nine months while the other deputy involved has been with the department for nine months and is a recent graduate from the academy. BCSO says that each deputy fired at least one round and Sanchez fired at least one round however, the exact number of rounds fired is unclear at this time. The investigation is ongoing.

Related Coverage: