Deputies were trying to arrest a man with four warrants when the suspect opened fire on law enforcement, officials said.

Example video title will go here for this video

LINCOLN COUNTY, N.C. — Two Lincoln County deputies were released from the hospital after they were shot by a suspect while responding to a domestic incident Monday, police said.

According to the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office, deputies were called to a domestic disturbance at a home on Gaston Webb's Chapel Road a little after noon Monday. While at the home, deputies learned a man had four outstanding warrants. The suspect entered a building on the property and opened fire at the deputies.

Greg Seibert said he was in his bathroom when he heard the shooting.

"I heard 'boom, boom, boom, boom, boom,' which I thought nothing of it at the time," Seibert said. "You hear that out here all the time because you're allowed to shoot in your backyard, but I didn't know, and then my wife got a notification or something on her phone."

Deputies returned gunfire and killed the man, according to a release from the sheriff's office. The suspect has been identified as 31-year-old Corey Lee Cutler.

One deputy was taken to Atrium Health's Carolina Medical Center in Charlotte for treatment of "shotgun pellets to the face," the spokesperson said. The other deputy was taken to Atrium Health Lincoln hospital for treatment of shotgun pellets to the arm.

Sheriff Bill Beam said both deputies were in good condition. Deputy W. Spurling was taken to Atrium Health-Main in Charlotte after he was struck in the face by shotgun pellets. He was released Monday night. Deputy B. Alexander was released from Atrium Health-Lincoln after he was struck by a pellet in the arm.

Both deputies are currently on administrative leave while the SBI conducts its investigation.

On-scene of the shooting off Gaston Webbs Chapel Road. Don’t know the condition of the deputy yet. We do know he’s being treated at CMC Main in Charlotte. pic.twitter.com/kKAi1PTirD — Brandon Goldner (@BrandonWCNC) August 24, 2020