LOWELL — Police say a 25-year-old Lowell man found dead early Tuesday morning inside a Fenwick Terrace apartment is believed to have turned a gun on himself after shooting his 26-year-old girlfriend in the leg and then barricading himself inside a bathroom.

Capt. James Hodgdon said police were called to an undisclosed address on Fenwick Terrace, a short, curved street in the North Common Village housing project off Suffolk Street, at 2:25 a.m. for a report of a woman with a gunshot wound.

Officers arrived to find a 26-year-old Lowell woman suffering from a non-life-threatening gunshot wound to her leg, Hodgdon said. As she was being treated she spoke to police. She was then taken by ambulance to a Boston trauma center.

“She said her boyfriend shot her in the leg and that he was in the bathroom with two firearms,” Hodgdon said.

Lowell Police set up a perimeter around the apartment to keep people away, and immediately called in a crisis negotiator from the North Eastern Massachusetts Law Enforcement Council, who also works as an overnight street supervisor in Lowell, Hodgdon said. Police also called a NEMLEC SWAT team to the scene, as the negotiator is part of that team.

Lowell Police are trained to contain armed suspects whenever possible and to set up a perimeter to keep people safe while negotiators work to get suspects to surrender, while also avoiding the risks of armed confrontations between suspects and individual officers if possible.

“Every situation is different, but in a situation like this with a barricaded person in a residence, we’ll set up a perimeter to keep officers and the public safe, and contact NEMLEC and a crisis negotiator,” Hodgdon said.

Hodgdon said the crisis negotiator tried to reach the 25-year-old inside the apartment.

“They tried using a loudspeaker and calling his phone but he never acknowledged them,” Hodgdon said.

Hodgson said the NEMLEC SWAT team arrived at the scene at about 3:20 a.m. and had still not entered the building when police “heard a pop” from inside the apartment. A short time later the NEMLEC SWAT team entered the apartment and found the 25-year-old dead from a gunshot wound in the bathroom.

Hodgdon said the gunshot wound is believed to be self-inflicted, but that the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner took custody of the body to determine the cause of death.

Hodgdon said he could not immediately release the identity of either the woman or the man, or their exact address, since the incident was domestic in nature. State law prohibits the release of such details on the same day as any domestic incident.

In addition to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, State Police detectives with the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office and Lowell detectives continue to investigate the incident.