Page 2 of 4

The timeline for the death of Max Gracia starts around 2:04 a.m. on Aug. 6, when Orlando Police officers were dispatched to a Circle K at 401 N. John Young Parkway in reference to an armed robbery. Minutes before, store employees alleged a suspect had walked into the store wearing a white cloth to cover his mouth and holding a beige bag, according to the arrest report.

The suspect told one of the store clerks, "Give me all the money," as he held a silver handgun at his waist. He then ordered the store clerk to open both cash registers and place the money in the beige bag. During the ordeal, store clerks remembered the suspect saying, "I'm sorry, but I got to do this," repeatedly, according to the report.

After he had the money, the suspect then bolted from the store, going east on John Young Parkway. Less than a mile away, officers tried to stop Gracia on Robinson Street, but he fled from them. Officers discovered him hiding in the waters of Lake Mann and sent in a police dog after him. The arrest report doesn't mention what the dogs did to Gracia, but according to the Orlando Sentinel, a separate report said he was "bitten multiple times on the inside and back of his upper left thigh." The arrest report says Gracia struck the dog several times and continued further into Lake Mann. After spending more than two hours in the lake, officers eventually arrived in a boat and took Gracia into custody on charges of robbery with a firearm based on victims' statements, resisting an officer and interfering with a police dog. He was taken to the Orlando Regional Medical Center for treatment and then booked into the Orange County jail.

The lawsuit says after Gracia was booked into the jail, he was seen by the medical director of the jail's corrections health services, Dr. Robert Buck III, for his injuries. Buck observed that Gracia had multiple severe dog bites and ordered Gracia be given Depakote for his seizure condition as well as pain medication and an antibiotic. Buck also noted that the jail's nursing staff needed to verify Gracia's HIV medication to see if he had been "compliant," and if so, place an order. However, the lawsuit alleges the HIV medication was never ordered for Gracia.

Through Aug. 7, nurses noted that Gracia was tolerating his medication and his wounds were being cleaned and dressed. On Aug. 8 at 5:13 p.m., the lawsuit alleges Gracia complained to nurses that he had vomited twice, and he was given medicine.

On Aug. 9 at 6:35 a.m., a nurse changed the dressing on the wound on the back of his left thigh and found it reddened, with a large amount of bloody drainage. A few hours later, nurses noted that Gracia was complaining of dizziness and weakness, and ordered him to increase fluids. Later that night, around 9 p.m., the lawsuit alleges one nurse documented that she saw Gracia twisting on the bed and moaning loudly, saying he "can't do it," and sliding to the floor. Before the hour was over, another nurse noted that Gracia "refused" to get up for his evening medication. Nurses also noted that Gracia refused to follow corrections officers' orders regarding a cell change and instead lay on the floor on his back "refusing all treatment." The Sentinel reports Gracia was punished and faced disciplinary action because the jail's nursing staff believed he was " 'faking or exaggerating the illness' and inability to get up."