Oklahoma City police have identified the man shot and killed during a home invasion on Friday.Police said Anthony Darnell King, of Tulsa, was shot and killed by an off-duty highway patrol trooper in the 200 block of NE 2nd Street. According to Oklahoma City police, King had was an Oklahoma Department of Correction escapee. Police identified the trooper as John Marion. Marion has eight years of service as a trooper.Police said officers responded to a first-degree burglary call with shots fired around 6:45 p.m. on Friday.Oklahoma City police found King unresponsive in the home. He had at least one gunshot wound. Police said he died during emergency surgery at a local hospital.King was also linked to an attempted kidnapping/robbery that happened around 8:10 a.m. Friday. Police said a woman and her child were assaulted in the 400 block of N. Central Ave. as they were entering their vehicle. The locations are within blocks of each other.King was serving a sentence at the Oklahoma City Community Correction Center for assault with a dangerous weapon and possession of a stolen vehicle. His sentences ran until Nov. 23, 2016; however, he had a June 2014 parole hearing date.Marion was placed in administrative leave, pending the outcome of an investigation. The Oklahoma City police homicide unit is investigation the incident.

Oklahoma City police have identified the man shot and killed during a home invasion on Friday.

Police said Anthony Darnell King, of Tulsa, was shot and killed by an off-duty highway patrol trooper in the 200 block of NE 2nd Street. According to Oklahoma City police, King had was an Oklahoma Department of Correction escapee. Police identified the trooper as John Marion. Marion has eight years of service as a trooper.

Police said officers responded to a first-degree burglary call with shots fired around 6:45 p.m. on Friday.

Oklahoma City police found King unresponsive in the home. He had at least one gunshot wound. Police said he died during emergency surgery at a local hospital.

King was also linked to an attempted kidnapping/robbery that happened around 8:10 a.m. Friday. Police said a woman and her child were assaulted in the 400 block of N. Central Ave. as they were entering their vehicle. The locations are within blocks of each other.

King was serving a sentence at the Oklahoma City Community Correction Center for assault with a dangerous weapon and possession of a stolen vehicle. His sentences ran until Nov. 23, 2016; however, he had a June 2014 parole hearing date.

Marion was placed in administrative leave, pending the outcome of an investigation. The Oklahoma City police homicide unit is investigation the incident.