The fatal shooting of an Albion man after a four-hour standoff with police in August was justified, the Calhoun County Prosecutor has determined.

Prosecutor David Gilbert said in an 11-page opinion released this week that the deadly force used against Casper Junior Brown was "reasonable due to the danger Mr. Brown posed to police officers and the public at large.

"Deputy (Todd) Madsen neutralized a deadly threat to both police officers and the public," Gilbert said.

Brown, 47, of Albion, was shot and killed by Madsen following a standoff on Aug. 25 at a home in the 20000 block of Division Drive in Eckford Township.

Brown was a suspect in the theft of a motorcycle about 7:20 a.m. that morning. The owner chased Brown, who crashed and then ran into some woods. About 12:13 p.m., a resident of a home on Division Drive found Brown in her garage and he fled next door.

The resident of the second home found him inside and fled.

About 25 officers from several departments surrounded the house after one deputy saw Brown pointing a large handgun through a window.

The handgun was a toy, but Brown was able to secure several rifles and ammunition after breaking into a gun safe in the house. He positioned the guns and ammunition near different windows of the house.

He began firing at officers and, while talking with a police negotiator, said he was not going back to prison. At one point, he shouted to a Marshall sergeant, "Are you ready to die?"

Brown fired shots at police and at their vehicles. Police didn't shoot but did fire more than 20 cannisters of tear gas into the house.

After a few hours, the Special Response Team of the Calhoun County Sheriff's Office decided to breach the front door to throw a phone inside in hopes of talking to Brown.

Madsen was carrying a shotgun with a breaching round designed to open doors without ricochets that could injure the officers trying to enter.

To reach the front door, Gilbert explained, the officers had to pass near the garage and Madsen saw movement in a window and Brown "charging the window extending his arms forward in an aggressive manner.

"Deputy Madsen fired one round from the breaching shotgun fearing for his life and the safety of his team," Gilbert concluded. "He fired one shot and yelled for his team to pull back which they did."

Officers found Brown's body on the floor of the garage and a rifle near his right hand.

Gilbert said that use of deadly force is reasonable "if the officer reasonably believes that he or she is in immediate danger of serious bodily injury or death."

He said Brown fired at several officers during the standoff. One patrol car was put out of commission, and Brown fired twice at a police armored vehicle.

Gilbert said Madsen's belief that he and others could suffer death or serious injury was reasonable.

"Mr. Brown died because of his own actions," Gilbert said.

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com