In Baltimore City

Trial postponed until February in Ciara Jobes case

Advertisement

The trial of Satrina Roberts, charged in the death last year of 15-year-old Ciara Jobes, was postponed yesterday in Baltimore Circuit Court because Roberts' attorney is awaiting her psychological evaluation.

Roberts, who is charged with first-degree murder, is accused of denying Ciara food and locking her in an unfurnished, unheated room for months, forcing her to use a hole in the wall as a toilet. Roberts was Ciara's court-appointed guardian.

Advertisement

The case drew national attention as local leaders demanded to know why several city and state agencies involved in the case were unable to protect Ciara. Roberts' trial is now scheduled for Feb. 23.

Fire at rowhouse leaves 15 neighbors homeless

A three-alarm fire that began in an abandoned rowhouse ripped through three neighboring homes yesterday morning, leaving 15 people homeless, city fire officials said.

The fire started about 3:50 a.m. in the 2200 block of Callow Ave. and quickly spread to the other houses. Firefighters put the blaze under control in about an hour, and no one was injured, officials said.

The cause of the blaze remained under investigation.

Cardin's town hall meeting to discuss Medicare, deficit

Rep. Benjamin L. Cardin has scheduled a town hall meeting at 12:30 p.m. Monday at the city's John Booth Senior Center, 229 1/2 S. Eaton St.

Announcing the meeting yesterday, the 3rd District Democrat's office said he will give a legislative update on changes in Medicare, including prescription drug coverage, and also discuss homeland security and the impact of the budget deficit on the economy.

Advertisement

In Baltimore County

Officers in fatal shooting on paid leave, police say

WOODLAWN - Baltimore County police identified yesterday the two officers who fatally shot a 22-year-old man last week.

Officers Nate J. McDougall, 24, and Maurice H. Hoppert, 25, both of the Woodlawn Precinct, were placed on administrative leave with pay after the shooting Saturday morning, said Bill Toohey, a county police spokesman. Both officers have been with the police force since June last year.

Police said Emanuel T. Williams of the 3200 block of Normount Ave. was shot about 8:45 a.m. after McDougall and Hoppert briefly pursued the car he was driving. The car ran off the road on Kernan Drive, near Security Boulevard. Williams left the car and fired an undetermined number of shots before the officers shot back, police said.

Volunteers needed to help those affected by Isabel

Advertisement

TOWSON - Del. J.B. Jennings and Baltimore County Councilman Joseph Bartenfelder are organizing a Volunteer Help Your Neighbor Day on Nov. 1 to help those affected by Tropical Storm Isabel.

Volunteers are needed to move furniture and to paint, clean and repair homes. Volunteers will meet at Eastern Regional Park on Eastern Avenue at 9 a.m. and will be dispatched to Wilson Point, Hawthorne, Seneca Park, Oliver Beach and Bowleys Quarters.

If you need assistance or would like to volunteer, call Jennings at 410-841-3334 or Bartenfelder at 410-887-5223.

Two authors to read at Goucher College

TOWSON - The Kratz Center for Creative Writing at Goucher College will present a reading by two internationally known authors, Julia Alvarez and Edwidge Danticat, at 8 p.m. today in Kraushaar Auditorium.

Alvarez, who spent the first 10 years of her life in the Dominican Republic, is best known for her novels, including How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accent. She has also written four collections of poetry. Danticat, a native of Haiti, won the American Book Award in 1999 for The Farming of Bones. Her book Krik? Krak! was nominated for a National Book Award.

Advertisement

Tickets to the reading are free and can be reserved by calling 410-337-6333.