Dearborn Heights — A suspect and two victims are dead in a shooting Saturday afternoon at a Dearborn Heights apartment complex.

The incident occurred around 1:30 p.m. in the 400 block of Yorkshire Boulevard inside the Cherry Hill Apartment complex near Cherry Hill and Inkster roads.

The Michigan State Police said the 43-year-old man shot and killed his mother and sister. The suspect then fired at the responding officers and was killed during the incident, state police said.

The incident stemmed from an altercation, but the motive is still unknown, police said.

State police tweeted again at 8:09 p.m. that the Special Investigation Section Detectives and the MSP Forensic Lab are continuing to process the scene of the incident.

Neighbor Patches MucCullough said he was leaving his apartment and heading to the store with his three children when he saw a neighbor on the back balcony with an AK-47.

“His mother, who I helped out a lot, was trying to restrain him but he’s a big dude like 6-foot-5 and young like 34,” MucCullough said. “He came out like ‘well I already took out one today, guess I gotta another.’ I ran back inside and shut the door. I even yelled at another neighbor taking out the trash to go back inside cause he gotta gun.”

The suspect was waving the gun back and fourth, he said. MucCullough’s wife and other neighbors called 911 and within a few moments, three police vehicles were on the scene.

“Officers came out like a SWAT movie and gave him every chance to put the gun down but he started firing at them and they fired back,” MucCullough said. “He let off at least five or six rounds at the officers and they laid it on him. They didn’t have a choice.”

Dearborn Heights police and fire, Dearborn Police Department, Inkster Police and state police were assisting at the scene.

The state police said that Special Investigation Section detectives, Forensic Lab, and MSP Unmanned Aircraft are also on scene.

MucCullough said he’s lived in the complex for “three years, but I guess it’s time to move.”

Chrystal Jones, 35, lives down the block from the scene and said she heard gunshots.

“My mom and I were inside the house and she said it sounded like firecrackers,” Jones said. “When we finally came out, we heard shots between the standoff with police and the tenant in the back patio area.”

“It’s a very nice and quiet little neighborhood,” she said. “Nothing like this ever happens.”

srahal@detroitnews.com

Twitter: @SarahRahal_