A 41-year-old Black man died in March after being forcibly restrained by Rochester police officers.

Daniel T. Prude was handcuffed by officers in the early-morning hours of Monday, March 23, as he walked naked and bleeding down Jefferson Avenue in southwest Rochester.

He was suffering from acute mental-health problems when he was detained. During an 11-minute confrontation, multiple police officers were on scene, as well as two emergency medical technicians.

Force was applied for several minutes to Prude's head and back as he lay on the pavement. He lost consciousness after officers cut off his breathing and was transported to the hospital, where he died a week later.

Prude's death was ruled a homicide, according to the autopsy report.

Prude's death mirrors the plight of George Floyd, who was died in late May while in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Floyd's death sparked nationwide protests, including weekly rallies in Rochester and other locations in upstate New York.

Activists have called for massive police reform and the state of New York has passed some new legislation, including the repeal of a law which shielded police personnel and disciplinary files from public view for decades.

So here's what we know (and don't know) so far about the death of Daniel Prude.

What happened?

► See a longer video of Daniel Prude's encounter with police: (Graphic imagery, foul language)

Prude had left his brother’s home wearing only long underwear, a tank top and socks. He took off the clothes while on West Main, a witness told police. Police believe that Prude broke windows at a West Main Street business as he walked along before officers found him. Several people encountered him on West Main, with at least one person calling 911 to report his erratic actions, the police narrative said.

Prude was halted by a police officer at 3:16 a.m. on Jefferson Avenue. He was ordered to lay on the ground and put his hands behind his back. Prude complied and was handcuffed as he rolled onto his stomach.

Prude remained handcuffed as officers attempted to make a mental-health arrest. He was agitated and spitting in some instances. Officers covered his head with a white "spit hood," meant to protect police from body fluids.

Officers stood around Prude in a semicircle, body camera footage shows. He continued to yell at officers and at one point attempted to get to his feet. Officers pushed him back over and then held him on the ground.

One officer used both hands to push the side of Prude’s head into the pavement, similar to a triangle pushup. Another officer used his knee at one point to hold down Prude’s torso, and a third held down his legs.

Prude's head was held down for three minutes. He was then turned over and loaded into an ambulance 11 minutes after the first officer arrived.

How many police officers were at the scene?

Six were visible in the video standing near Prude. A total of 22 RPD personnel were at the scene at some point on March 23, according to an internal investigative report reviewed by the D&C.

Were the involved officers suspended?

Yes. On Thursday, Sept. 3, seven officers were suspended from the force with pay in connection with Prude's death.

They were:

Officer Mark Vaughn;

Officer Paul Ricotta;

Officer Andrew Specksgoor;

Officer Josiah Harris;

Officer Troy Talladay;

Officer Francisco Santiago;

Sgt. Michael Magri.

Attorney Elliot Shields, who is representing Prude's family, said he obtained 80 minutes of body camera footage from an open-records request filed with the city of Rochester.

During a news conference Wednesday, Shields said that the Prude family "will sue everyone who is responsible for Daniel Prude's death."

Who was Daniel Prude?

Prude, a resident of Chicago, arrived in Rochester via an Amtrak train on March 22 to stay with his brother.

He was not married and had no children. He is survived by his sister Tameshay Prude and his father Joe Louis Cole, who both live in Chicago, and by his brother Joseph Prude, who lives in Rochester.

Beyond his family information, Prude hasn't left much of a trace on social media.

What did the medical examiner conclude?

A low level of the powerful hallucinogen phencyclidine, or PCP, was found in Prude’s system. The autopsy report listed “acute phencyclidine intoxication” as a complication of his death.

Prude's death was ruled a homicide caused by "complications of asphyxia in the setting of physical restraint" by Monroe County Medical Examiner Dr. Nadia Granger, according to the autopsy report.

Could the officers face charges?

Potentially. That will be up to state officials. The New York state Attorney General’s office has been investigating the case since April but has made no public statement about it until this week. The investigation is not expected to wrap up for several more months.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo issued an executive order in July to investigate the incident.

Rochester Police Chief La'Ron Singletary said he launched two investigations, one criminal and one internal, on March 23, but that those have been put on hold in deference to the investigation by Attorney General Letitia James.

James said on Thursday that the RPD should proceed with its own investigation and was not barred from speaking publicly on the case, though Warren said anyway that she was doing so against the advice of city lawyers.

Family members react

Joseph Prude described his brother Daniel's death as a "cold-blooded murder" and accused involved officers of handling his brother "like a damned animal" during a Wednesday morning news conference about the fatal encounter.

"I placed a phone call to get my brother help, not to have my brother lynched," he said, noting that he had called 911 in the early-morning hours of March 23 after his brother exited his home. "How many more brothers have to die? This has got to stop."

Joseph Prude asked who will be held accountable for his brother's death, why his brother's death was "covered up" and how an officer could treat another person so inhumanely.

What has the reaction been in Rochester?

As many as 150 gathered outside the Public Safety Building, headquarters of the Rochester Police Department, Wednesday afternoon after news of Prude's death became public.

Three community organizers from Free The People Roc were arrested prior to the protest after they tried to gain entrance to the PSB to attend a press conference from Mayor Lovely Warren and Police Chief La'Ron Singletary.

Officers barricaded the exterior of the PSB and shut down traffic on Exchange Boulevard. RPD officers, along with state police, advanced on protesters at least once and used pepper balls and pepper spray to disperse crowds.

Protesters eventually marched to the Jefferson Avenue and shut down traffic in that area. It was the scene of where Prude was restrained by police in March.

Late Thursday, more than 200 protesters gathered again outside the PSB. Eight people were arrested and two officers were injured in a standoff that went into the early Friday morning hours. Rochester police and state police troopers fired volleys of pepper balls, and officers in helmets and face shields, carrying batons, pushed back demonstrators, some lobbing water bottles and shielding themselves with umbrellas.

Rochester saw a wave of rallies and protests in the wake of the Floyd slaying. The most notable rally on May 30, five days after Floyd died, drew thousands of people downtown to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Park.

Marchers made their way across downtown and ended up in front of the Public Safety Building, headquarters for the Rochester Police Department. The rally devolved into chaos as vehicles, some belonging to police, were burned and flipped.

More than 20 people were arrested after more than 80 businesses across Monroe County were looted. Some have been brought up on federal arson charges.

Subsequent rallies have been much calmer. But one July protest did shut down Interstate 490 in downtown Rochester for 15 minutes.

Local activists expect rallies to continue in the coming days. MLK Park has proven to be the hub of most of the activity in the rallies against institutional racism, police abuse and misconduct.

Contact Will Cleveland at wcleveland@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @willcleveland13, Facebook @willcleveland13, and Instagram @clevelandroc. This coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.

Includes reporting by staff writer Victoria Freile