Syracuse, N.Y. — Steve D. Smith ducked behind a pair of dumpsters and pointed a handgun at Syracuse police. Officers repeatedly ordered him to drop the gun.

Without saying a word, the 33-year-old man fired once into the darkness. Police officers, their guns drawn at the back of a Sunoco gas station north of downtown, didn’t immediately shoot back.

Twenty-one seconds passed. Then Smith fired again. This time, Sgt. Jason Wells fired back 10 times from a department-issued rifle.

Those crucial moments were captured on body-worn police camera, which was released Friday by the Onondaga County District Attorney’s Office.

Moments after the officer fired back, Smith shot a third time. Police waited.

About 30 seconds later, Smith extended his arm toward Wells. That’s when Wells fired back eight times. And another officer, Kenneth Sheehan, fired three times with his own officer-issued handgun.

Smith was killed in the barrage of gunfire shortly before 1 a.m. Sept. 4. Three bullets struck Smith directly, while others ricocheted off the metal dumpsters and struck him on the rebound, Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick said Friday.

Onondaga County District Attorney William Fitzpatrick releases findings from an investigation into the fatal police shooting of Steve Smith in September 2020.Jacob Pucci | syracuse.com

The body-worn footage released by Fitzpatrick’s office showed the sequence of events from multiple points of view. The videos, which contain adult language and depictions of the shooting itself, paint a tense situation involving an unpredictable individual who refused commands and did not say a word before firing his gun.

At the time of his death, Smith was high on so much PCP that it couldn’t be accurately measured upon autopsy, the DA said.

“It was an astronomical amount of PCP,” Fitzpatrick said. “It was off the charts.”

Besides the drugs, Fitzpatrick said it’s unclear what prompted Smith to confront police that night.

“He didn’t say anything, didn’t give any indication,” the DA said. A circumstantial case could be made for “suicide by cop,” but no one will ever know, he added.

Fitzpatrick made it clear that the two officers were justified in returning fire — and ultimately killing — Smith that night.

“Once he discharges that weapon, for lack of better words, all bets are off,” the DA said. “It’s a life or death struggle.”

A gun, possessed illegally by Smith, was found near the dumpsters, with one live round and three more in the clip, the DA said. The Haskell .45-caliber automatic handgun was traced to a Kentucky gun auction in 2008, but it’s unclear how it ended up in Smith’s hands. That investigation is ongoing.

Fitzpatrick sought to place Smith’s death in the context of clashes between police and civilians all year long. This is the sixth officer-involved fatality in Onondaga County this year, the DA said, far above the county’s long-term average of one every other year or so.

The DA suggested that more people were willing to confront police in dangerous ways, given what Fitzpatrick called “a lack of respect and decency for law enforcement.”

That said, Fitzpatrick added that he met privately with Smith’s parents weeks ago to show them the evidence collected from the shootout. While there were disagreements, the DA said he understood they were mourning the loss of a son.

Here’s a timeline of the police shooting, as compiled by the DA’s office using footage from the body-warn cameras:

12:42:58 a.m.: First 911 call received

12:44 a.m.: First officers on scene

12:46:39 a.m.: Second 911 call received

12:48:22 a.m.: Suspect seen running towards Sunoco

12:48:37 a.m.: Officer Kenneth Sheehan calls out “guy with a gun” and “Sunoco Parking Lot, by the dumpsters” on radio.

12:48:55 a.m.: Man is seen standing behind the dumpsters, with a handgun in his hand

12:48:57 a.m.: Officers issue multiple verbal commands to ‘show us your hands’ and ‘drop the gun’

12:49:54 a.m.: First shot fired by Smith

12:50:15 a.m.: Second shot fired by Smith

12:50:17 a.m.: 10 shots fired by Sgt. Jason Wells

12:50:32 a.m.: Sheehan requests an ambulance

12:50:43 a.m.: Third shot fired by Smith

12:51:16 a.m.: Smith seen with arm extended and handgun pointed towards Sgt. Wells

12:51:17 a.m.: Eight shots fired by Wells. Three shots fired by Wells

Staff writer Douglass Dowty can be reached at ddowty@syracuse.com or 315-470-6070.