BATTLE CREEK, MI — Three Battle Creek police officers and one Calhoun County sheriff’s deputy involved in the Sept. 5 shooting death of 22-year-old Andrew Charles Blowers have been cleared of all wrongdoing.

Calhoun County Prosecutor David Gilbert announced the decision Monday, Dec. 21 after a three-and-a-half-month investigation.

Related: Man dies after police chase, shooting in Battle Creek

“The officers were justified in using deadly force against Mr. Blowers,” Gilbert wrote in his summary decision. “His conduct put the officers in reasonable fear for their physical safety and the life and physical wellbeing of Officer (Steven) Herbstreith.”

Battle Creek Police Officers Ryan O’Connell, Patrick Herson and Herbstreith, along with Calhoun County Sheriff’s Deputy Brandon Hatch, were involved in a high-speed chase that began just before midnight on Sept. 4 and ended at around 12:15 a.m. Sept. 5 after Blowers lost control of his vehicle.

At that point, the Marshall man’s vehicle left the roadway, spinning backwards into a series of trees off Logistics Drive, located in the Fort Custer Industrial Park on the city’s western edge.

Officers attempted to take Blowers into custody, approaching his vehicle with guns drawn, but Blowers managed to free his vehicle from the trees and accelerated, driving straight at Herbstreith, Gilbert said.

Herson and Hatch then fired their service weapons at Blowers as he sped toward Herbstreith. Attempting to get out of the way, Herbstreith ran around the front of his police vehicle, which Blowers then crashed into, pushing it out of the way as he fled south on Logistics Drive, the prosecutor stated.

At that point, Herson, Hatch and Herbstreith all began firing their service weapons at Blowers’ vehicle as it sped away, eventually crashing into the woods at the end of the road, Gilbert said. Blowers was found unresponsive in the vehicle with multiple gunshot wounds and later pronounced dead at the scene.

The prosecutor determined the act of driving toward Herbstreith, striking his police vehicle and pushing it toward the officer gave the officers probable cause to believe Blowers had assaulted an officer with a dangerous weapon (his motor vehicle) and placed the officers in reasonable fear of death or serious injury.

“Although Mr. Blowers does not appear to have been struck by bullets after ramming Officer Herbstreith’s vehicle, all three officers were justified in firing at the fleeing vehicle and the number of rounds fired was not unreasonable,” Gilbert wrote. “Mr. Blowers posed a threat of serious physical harm or death to the officers or to others, and using deadly force was not unreasonable to prevent the escape of the suspect.”

The shooting of Blowers was one of four officer-involved shootings in Calhoun County this year, all of which occurred between July and October. Two of the four were fatal.

The other fatal shooting occurred on Aug. 25 when 47-year-old Battle Creek man Casper Brown was shot and killed by Calhoun County Sheriff’s deputies after a four-hour stand-off at a home outside of Marshall.

Brown had broken into the home, stolen guns and was shooting at police before being shot and killed, MSP First Lt. Chuck Christensen previously told MLive.

Also on MLive:

1-year-old found 160 miles away after parental kidnapping case in Southwest Michigan

Kalamazoo man charged with sexually assaulting, killing 14-month-old at Portage apartment

Kalamazoo man sentenced to 43 years in prison for killing man he said ‘deserved it’