San Bernardino County sheriff’s deputies shot and killed a Yucaipa man at a mobile home park in Lucerne Valley on Friday after authorities said he injured at least one person during an active shooter incident and refused to surrender during a four-hour standoff.

Joshua Beedie, 38, continued to fire a weapon from an unknown location inside Moss Mobile Manor & RV Park as deputies from the Victor Valley Station in Adelanto arrived on scene, according to a sheriff’s statement released Saturday. The mobile home park sits in a remote section of Lucerne Valley just off Highway 247, about 2 miles east of Camp Rock Road and more than 7 miles east of the town proper.

Responding deputies evacuated residents and started a search for the suspect, later identified as Beedie. Sheriff’s aviation and California Highway Patrol helicopters assisted from above. Authorities believed Beedie was hiding in a section of the mobile home park where abandoned cars and trailers are kept.

An aerial map of the property showed two large sections that fit the description provided by sheriff’s officials. The first section, on the property’s eastern flank, included seven rows of abandoned vehicles in otherwise open space. The second, at the back of the property to the north, appeared more haphazard in layout and included additional abandoned vehicles, as well as trees and what looked like a building for storage.

Sheriff’s personnel spoke to Beedie via loudspeaker during the search.

"Sheriff's aviation, as well as deputies on the ground, made numerous (public address) announcements in efforts to get the suspect to surrender peacefully," the statement said. "The suspect continued to ignore their commands."

Deputies with the sheriff's Specialized Enforcement Division responded and used three armored vehicles to approach the area where it was believed Beedie was hiding.

Deputies shot Beedie at approximately 1:30 p.m. Friday, about four hours after the Victor Valley Station deputies arrived on scene. Two rifles, an AR-15 and a sawed-off shotgun were found next to Beedie, who was taken to a hospital where he later died, according to sheriff’s officials.

Freelance videographer Lewis Busch provided footage of a San Bernardino County Fire ambulance arriving at St. Mary Medical Center in Apple Valley after leaving the scene at approximately 2 p.m. Busch said the patient inside was believed to be the suspect.

Sheriff’s officials said a preliminary investigation revealed that Beedie had shot at two people before deputies arrived. One person received minor injuries after being hit by the gunfire. The sheriff’s department did not release an update on the victim Saturday. No deputies were injured during the incident.

Sheriff’s officials said Beedie was wanted for an attempted murder and rape out of the Morongo Basin Station in Joshua Tree, about 45 miles southeast of Moss Mobile Manor. It was unclear Saturday why Beedie went to the mobile home park or if his alleged actions there were somehow linked to his wanted status.

Meanwhile, Highway 247 — a main thoroughfare that connects the Victor Valley to Joshua Tree National Park and Twentynine Palms — was shut down in both directions during the incident. Additional footage provided by Busch showed San Bernardino County Fire personnel directing traffic off the highway and onto Camp Rock Road.

A Facebook post on Friday from CHP’s Victorville office said the highway was closed “at Camp Rock Road and Dallas Road due to an active shooter incident.” A review of roads in the area did not show a “Dallas Road.”

Dallas Avenue is located about 1 mile east of Camp Rock Road on Highway 247, but both roads are west of Moss Mobile Manor, which would mean that the closed section of the highway did not include where the shooting incident took place.

An email left with CHP officials seeking clarification on the closure was not immediately returned Saturday.

Detectives from the Specialized Investigations Division, Homicide Detail are conducting the ongoing investigation. Sheriff’s officials asked anyone with information, or anyone who witnessed Friday’s incident, to contact Det. Robert Hoag at 909-387-3589.

Callers wishing to remain anonymous can contact WeTip at 800-78CRIME or www.wetip.com.

Daily Press Managing Editor Matthew Cabe can be reached at MCabe@VVDailyPress.com or 760-490-0052. Follow him on Twitter @DP_MatthewCabe.