-

Moore police have released body and dash camera footage following a high-speed chase last Friday.

Officers said the suspect, 21-year-old Christopher Jackson, stole a truck from Norman earlier that day, and was seen driving the truck on Interstate 35 a few hours later.

Police were in pursuit of the stolen truck for just a few minutes before the driver crashed near I-35 and Southeast 59th Street.

Following that crash, Jackson was held at gunpoint by an officer, but took off running.

He was seen on footage jumping the concrete median and was hit by an SUV.

The driver of that SUV said she had no time to react.

"He just ran out across the highway, and I just hit him. I was in the lane the whole time. I wasn't speeding," said Alicia Whisler. "I immediately stopped of course, and I don't even remember parking really, but I guess I parked. Then I left the car running, and I ran over there."

Officers tried CPR, but Jackson did not survive.

"I knew he wasn't alright, but I wanted to think he was. Then another cop came up and was like, 'yeah he tried to run from us, he had stolen this vehicle," said Whisler.

I felt like it was my fault, but there was nothing I could do. I didn't have enough time to stop, or swerve, or anything," said Whisler.

Officers said Jackson also caused the crash that killed a 69-year-old woman.

That victim has been identified as Janice Ford.

"We are profoundly sympathetic to the family and friends and all the loved ones of the two people who passed away," said Lt. Kyle Hill of the Moore Police Department.

Other victims gave their statements to police on scene.

The owner of the stolen truck was the person who called 911 and was also on location minutes after the impact.

Related Story: Stolen Truck Leads To Deadly Police Pursuit In Cleveland County

"We are fine. I really feel terrible for the other families involved, even the suspect. I am sure he has family somewhere," said Tyler McKaig.

Police said there are no other updates at this time.