VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. - The Virginia Beach Police Department said two of its officers were involved in a shooting following a violent domestic incident early Sunday morning. The police matter left a male suspect dead and a female with life-threatening injuries.

According to the department, officers were called to the 300 block of Garrison Place at 4:26 a.m. for the incident, which was in progress when police were called.

When officers arrived, they encountered the suspect, who police say was armed with bladed weapons. The suspect retreated to another room in the house, taking the victim with him, and barricaded the door.

Officers breached the door and saw the suspect restraining the victim, who police say was suffering from an obvious injury. Two officers fired their weapons and struck the suspect, then rendered aid to both the suspect and the victim as EMS arrived.

The suspect, later identified as 49-year-old Refugio Reynaldo Olivo Jr., was pronounced dead on scene, while the victim of the domestic incident was hospitalized with serious injuries, police said.

Larry Shiley lives a few doors down from where the incident happened.

“It’s just a sad situation,” he said. “Anybody that losses their life is a bad situation.”

Shiley said he drove by the home around 10 a.m. and noticed the police tape.

“Usually when you see police tape it’s not a good sign,” he said. “This area is pretty quiet in this neighborhood. I’ve been here 20+ years. This is something just not used to seeing.”

There was a teen who stopped by the home later in the day who said Olivo was his dad.

This is an active investigation, which is being conducted by the Virginia Beach Police Departments Detective Bureau as well as the Office of the Commonwealth's Attorney and the Virginia Beach Police Department's Office of Internal Affairs.

As standard procedure, the officers involved will be placed on administrative assignment pending the outcome of the investigation. Both involved officers are assigned to the 1st precinct uniform patrol division. One is a 10-year veteran of the department and the other has been with the department for 3 ½ years, police said.

There are no further details to release at this time.

VBPD called to a violent domestic in progress in the 100 block of Garrison Pl which resulted in an officer involved shooting. Suspect pronounced deceased on scene. Victim of domestic has life threatening injuries. More to follow @CityofVaBeach — Virginia Beach PD (@VBPD) September 6, 2020