A grand jury has determined an Altoona police officer and Polk County sheriff's deputy were justified in fatally shooting a man during a standoff outside a motel, Altoona police announced late Friday afternoon.

The department in a Facebook posting said the grand jury had met on Nov. 10, heard evidence in the case and delivered its verdict. Altoona Lt. Alyssa Wilson, a police spokesperson, said the more than two-week delay in announcing the result was the result of more than one police agency being involved and the need to assemble and get approval for a video about the case.

Along with the statement, the department released the video, taken from a patrol car dash cam, with the department's own narration of what happened and sections sped up or obscured. Wilson said the raw video — which presumably would contain the entire dialogue between the man, Jeffrey Meyer, 51, of Des Moines, and police before his shooting — would not be immediately released.

According to the police account, an Altoona officer was called to the Motel 6 at 3225 Adventureland Drive N.W. in Altoona at 8:33 a.m. Sept. 7 to investigate a report of a suspicious person with a weapon.

More:Authorities identify man shot and killed by police outside Altoona motel

When the officer arrived, he found Meyer on the east side of the motel, holding a pistol in which he had just chambered a round, the narration on the video says. On the video, the officer can be heard shouting repeatedly at Meyer to drop the gun, but he fails to comply.

A second Altoona officer then arrived and began to try to negotiate with Meyer, the narration says.

The video shows an extended dialogue between police and Meyer as he paces back and forth with the gun. But much of that section of the video, which the narration says covered 20 minutes, is sped up, and the audio portion is obscured.

The narration says that during that period, Meyer had several emotional outbursts and called on police to shoot him. It says he also reminded them that his gun was ready to be fired.

Several other law enforcement officials arrived on the scene, including Polk County sheriff's deputies, the narration says. It says officers became concerned that Meyer posed a danger to guests at the motel and to passersby, and decided to try to incapacitate him by firing nonlethal bean-bag rounds at him.

The video then shows officers firing at and hitting Meyer in the midsection with the beanbags. He is seen on the video responding by aiming his gun at police and firing at them, according to the narration.

The narration says the officers returned fire, fatally wounding Meyer.

Police said Meyer was pronounced dead at the scene after the 9:08 a.m. shooting.

Police said the grand jury's decision to declare the shooting justified was unanimous and that there will be no indictments for Altoona police Detective David Lowe and Polk County Deputy Jason Tart, the officers involved. It said both have returned to duty.

Attorney Dave O’Brien of Cedar Rapids, who has represented several families in cases involving the shootings of their relatives by police, viewed the video of Meyer's shooting and said its editing was troubling.

"That is very unusual," he said. "That video shouldn't be edited at all."

In September, the Polk County Sheriff's Office released a narrated and edited video in a separate Altoona case involving the fatal shooting by a deputy of robbery suspect Isaiah Hayes, whose family O'Brien is representing in a wrongful death lawsuit. The narration says Hayes, who fled deputies in a stolen car, was forced to halt in a residential neighborhood and was shot when he emerged with a gun in his hand and tried to flee.

The sheriff's office had fought for 15 months to withhold the video before being ordered to do so by a judge. Both Hayes' family and an independent expert the Des Moines Register asked to review the video said it was unclear from the images what, if anything, Hayes may have had in his hand.

O'Brien said Friday that the releasing edited video instead of the raw footage is a way to spin the narrative, and erodes trust in law enforcement.

"This is a real troublesome trend," he said.

Staff writer Andrea May Sahouri contributed to this article.

Melody Mercado covers the eastern Des Moines metro for the Register. Reach her at mmercado@registermedia.com or Twitter @melodymercadotv.