Denver District Attorney Beth McCann concluded Wednesday that the fatal shooting of 33-year-old Christopher Escobedo by two Denver police officers and three Adams County deputies was legally justified.

McCann said criminal charges are not warranted against the officers and deputies involved.

“The officers in this situation were confronted with a very dangerous and escalating situation,” McCann said in her decision letter. “I find their decisions to fire both reasonable and legally justified.”

The shooting happened on Sept. 12 at 1540 N. Meade St. in Denver. The incident began in Adams County when deputies attempted to stop a White Ford SUV for a traffic infraction at East 58th Avenue and Broadway.

The driver, Escobedo, initially pulled over, then sped off when the officer left their vehicle.

Soon into the pursuit, the driver began to fire shots at deputies near West 48th Avenue and Bannock Street, police said.

A female passenger was in the vehicle with Escobedo and called 911 during the pursuit. She said Escobedo was going to shoot her if deputies did not stop chasing them, the sheriff's office said.

Officers employed multiple forced stop measures, eventually flattening some of the vehicle’s tires. The driver then lost control and hit another vehicle, stopping.

As the pair exited the vehicle, Escobedo grabbed the female, holding his gun to her head and using her as a human shield, police said.

The pair eventually walked into a backyard. When Escobedo began expressing suicidal intentions, an Adams County deputy fired one round at Escobedo, causing him to fall. The female hostage then ran away unharmed.

Escobedo continued moving and pointed the handgun at officers and deputies, police said. Four officers then fired their weapons at 4:24 a.m. Escobedo was pronounced dead at the scene.

None of the five officers who fired have been previously involved in a police shooting, officials said.

“Mr. Escobedo was ignoring their commands and threatening to kill his female hostage,” McCann said. “This situation was preceded by Mr. Escobedo having shot at police officers during a high-speed chase.

“These officers ended the incident without serious injury or death to the female hostage or other officers.”

At the time, Escobedo was one of three people fatally shot by Denver police within one week.

McCann will hold a virtual community meeting to discuss her conclusion on Escobedo’s and Antonio Blackbear’s cases on Nov. 30 from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The public can join the Microsoft Teams meeting.