A fugitive sexual assault suspect from Tennessee who was shot on Thursday by a Fayetteville police officer has died, police said Friday morning.

The man, who had two active warrants for sexual assault in Tennessee, has been identified as Glenn Alvin Eldridge, 48, of Maynardville, Tennessee.

Just after 4 p.m. Thursday, officers with the Fayetteville Police Department U.S. Marshals Service Task Force along with other agents of the Marshals Service were attempting to serve the fugitive warrant.

They spotted Eldridge's vehicle on Old Raeford Road near Lake Rim Park.

During an encounter, a police detective assigned to the task force fired his weapon, hitting the suspect.

Medical crews were called in to treat Eldridge, who was taken to Cape Fear Valley Medical Center with life-threatening injuries. He later died, according to a police news release.

The State Bureau of Investigation is reviewing the incident, which is standard procedure in an officer-involved shooting.

"The Fayetteville Police Department’s Internal Affairs Unit continues to conduct an internal investigation to ensure all departmental policies and procedures were adhered to during the incident," the news release issued Friday morning said.

The Marshals Service also is investigating, it says.

The officer who shot Eldridge will be placed on administrative duty pending the outcome of the investigation, also standard procedure.

Sgt. Jeremy Glass, a spokesman for the Fayetteville Police Department, on Friday morning said he did not yet have details about why the officer shot Eldridge but said more information will be revealed as the investigation continues. Glass said he also didn't know why Eldridge was in Fayetteville.

"I know there were at least two firearms, but I don't know if he pulled them on the officer or (Eldridge) had them in his hand," Glass said.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins told reporters on Thursday in a news conference by the pier at Lake Rim Park that circumstances of what led to the shooting would be part of the investigation.

Hawkins said that police work with the Marshals Service Task Force, which is assigned to the apprehension of the most high-risk and dangerous fugitives to help the operations go smoother and to make sure dangerous criminals are not roaming the streets here.

The suspect was armed with multiple firearms, Hawkins said.

Hawkins also could not say whether the suspect drew a gun on officers or talk about other circumstances surrounding the shooting. She also could not say what part of Eldridge's body he was shot or how many times he was shot.

“The individual did have multiple weapons,” Hawkins said. “The individual was shot and transported quickly to the hospital. Our officer is fine right now.”

Hawkins said no officers were shot.

Hawkins said she did not know what the suspect was doing in the Fayetteville area or at that location, but the task force tried to apprehend the man when his car was spotted.

“There is no danger to the public,” Hawkins said.

As Hawkins spoke with reporters, people were fishing on the Lake Rim Park pier about 100 feet away.

Merrell Manton was visiting the park from out of state. He said it was hard to believe that a shooting took place near the tranquil lake, where he said he's met friendly people.

“It’s amazing,” Manton said.

Staff writer John Henderson can be reached at jhenderson@fayobserver.com.