The shooting happened at 2:46 p.m. Monday on West Lincoln Avenue near South 32nd Street.

Hide Transcript Show Transcript

All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for coming. My name's David Salazar and the captain of the second District with Milwaukee Police Department. I'm gonna be making a statement in regards to the incident that happened down the street here. However, I won't be answering any questions. On Monday, September 14th, 2020 At approximately 2. 46 PM, federal agents were conducting an investigation in the 3200 block of West Lincoln Avenue. The agents observed the target of their investigation and attempted Thio take that person into custody. As the federal things were attempting to apprehend the suspect, The suspect is charged the gun and sustained a self inflicted gunshot. The suspect is a 23 year old man from Milwaukee. It was later pronounced deceased at the scene. No agents, no agents were injured and did not fire any of their firearms. The Marquis Police Department's Homicide division is investigating the incident. For any further information, please contact DEA Special Agent in charge. Todd Smith at 312 353 7875 Again, that number is 312353 78 75. Thank you. Was MPD involved in this way? MPD is conducting the investigation. Remember Nothing before. No, We're merely conducting the investigation. Thank you.

Advertisement Police: Suspect kills self after confrontation with federal agents The shooting happened at 2:46 p.m. Monday on West Lincoln Avenue near South 32nd Street. Share Copy Link Copy

Investigators are at the scene of a fatal shooting in Milwaukee.The shooting happened at 2:46 p.m. Monday on West Lincoln Avenue near South 32nd Street.Police and firefighters responded to the scene.The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office said it was called out.Milwaukee police said federal agents were looking for a suspect when they found him in the area.The agents tried to take the 23-year-old Milwaukee man into custody, police said.That's when investigators said he took out a gun and shot himself.CPR was performed, but the man was pronounced dead."I was in the barbershop. We heard one shot, came outside and saw police arresting someone and started CPR on them," Daniel Mercado said. "After that, saw ambulance and fire department, they all rolled up and then continued CPR."Police said no agents were injured or fired any shots.Milwaukee police's homicide division is conducting the investigation into the man's death.Further questions were directed to the DEA.The man's name has not been released. Officials have not said why he was wanted.No other details have been released.