A Lancaster police officer will not be charged for fatally shooting a man who chased him while brandishing a knife on Sept. 13, the family's attorneys said Wednesday.

"Based on my review of the facts and the applicable law, there is no question — no question — that the officer was justified in the use of deadly force on Ricardo Muñoz on Sept. 13," Lancaster County District Attorney Heather Adams said during Wednesday's news conference.

Adams said the officer "had no time or opportunity to do anything but run for his life and only resorted to lethal force when he confirmed an imminent threat to his life remained. The officer’s belief that lethal force was necessary to defend himself was reasonable and therefore, the use of force was justified under the law."

Adams said "a mere four seconds" passed from the time Muñoz appeared in the doorway of his mother's home to when the officer — who began running away as Muñoz came out of the house with the knife — began shooting.

The district attorney's office showed photos and videos, including part of the officer's body camera footage, and played a 911 call one of Muñoz's sisters made, prompting police to arrive. On the call, the sister said her mother needed help for Muñoz, saying he had paranoid schizophrenia and was being aggressive, had punched a car and was trying to break in to his mother's home.

Muñoz family members and an attorney criticized the investigation.

"We called for help. We didn’t call for bullets," Ricardo's sister Rulennis Muñoz said after the news conference. The district attorney's office met with the family Wednesday morning to tell them of the findings.

"We are disappointed with the investigation and the conclusions the district attorney reached regarding Ricardo Muñoz’s death,” Steven M. Levin, an attorney for the family said in a statement.

“The district attorney’s investigation raises more questions than it answers,” said Michael Perna, another family attorney. “Ricardo was experiencing a medical crisis, and his family sought professional intervention, so why didn’t crisis intervention do its job? Why wasn’t non-lethal force tried first?”

Mayor Danene Sorace said now that the district attorney's investigation is done, the police department can finish its internal investigation into whether proper procedures were followed. That will take time, she said, but when complete, it will be made public.

She said she's focused on how to prevent a similar tragedy from happening again.

Police, she said, have "shared their desire for the city to invest in a crisis intervention co-responder model in tandem with the police social worker to de-escalate crises, link mental health consumers with community resources, and provide better outcomes for all involved. This needs to be a priority in our work going forward — both in the city budget and in conversation with our partners at the county who operate crisis intervention."

But in this case, she said there was no time for de-escalation.

"However, I want to be clear that based on the D.A.’s investigation, this all transpired in four seconds and there was not an opportunity to de-escalate," she said in a statement.

Police had been dispatched for a domestic disturbance call to the Laurel Street home Muñoz shared with his parents.

Body camera footage the police department released the night of the shooting shows Muñoz charging the officer with a knife and the officer firing several shots as he retreated. Muñoz fell to the ground and was pronounced dead within minutes.

The body camera video was shown during Wednesday's news conference, where Adams highlighted that Muñoz was holding a "hunting-style knife" while charging the officer. The knife was 9 inches long with a 5-inch blade.

The video, which was posted on Youtube, has been viewed more than 840,000 times.

The video shown Wednesday was cut off before the officer shot Muñoz four times.

Levin said the complete video had not been released and should be.

Muñoz’s family has said they had been calling to get help for Muñoz, who had a history of mental illness.

On the day of the shooting, Rulennis Muñoz called a crisis intervention center in Lebanon County, which they said Muñoz had previously been involved with. But at the same time, his sister Deborah Muñoz called 911.

In March 2019, Muñoz was charged with aggravated assault after stabbing four people with a knife on North Queen Street. His family said he acted in self-defense after he was assaulted and had his video game stolen by the attackers. While the case wound its way through the legal system, Muñoz was ordered by a judge to undergo a mental health evaluation, according to court records. The findings are not part of the public record of the criminal case, which remains unresolved. It was scheduled for trial Oct. 9.

Adams declined to the release the officer's name, saying the shooting was justified and citing concern for his safety, noting the sometimes angry and violent protests that took place after the shooting.

Adams said she hoped any reaction to the investigation would be peaceful and not destructive.

For related coverage: