COLEMAN – An international fugitive took his own life Wednesday morning after deputies confronted him outside a house.

Reached by phone, Coleman County Sheriff Les Cogdill said his office Friday had received a warrant from the state of Coahuila, Mexico, for a male suspect wanted there in connection with the shooting death of his wife there.

“I made contact with the Texas Rangers and the U.S. Marshal Service, (who) started working on it all weekend,” Cogdill said. On Tuesday, Cogdill surveilled a residence in the 700 block of Ripley Street to see if he could identify the fugitive.

Once he did, a task force from Del Rio was sent to attempt an arrest.

Marshals, deputies, members of the Coleman Police Department and local DPS troopers were on the scene when they saw the suspect go outside of the house around 8 a.m. Wednesday.

“We went to make contact with him, the suspect ran into the house and we started giving commands from him to come outside,” Cogdill said.

The man briefly stepped out of the doorway, then went back inside. Two other people stepped outside and were given commands to exit and did so.

About 8:13 a.m., the fugitive came back outside.

“When he came back out, he came out with a pistol to his head,” Cogdill said. “Officers started giving commands for him to drop the weapon. It looked like he was saying a prayer because he made the (sign of the) cross across his chest and pulled the trigger.”

Cogdill said the house is by itself on the street, so evacuation of neighboring homes was not required. Two more people were found in the fugitive’s house, unharmed.

The sheriff couldn’t recall a time when something like this had happened.

“We've had suicides, but in front of officers there on scene? I've been in law enforcement 24 years in Coleman and I really can't think of any time where it was done right in front of officers,” he said. “It's been a long time since we have, I can tell you that.”

Cogdill emphasized that at no time did the fugitive fire at officers, nor did any officers fire their weapons.

He did not provide the name of the fugitive.

The sheriff acknowledged the traumatic nature of witnessing such an incident, even for the on-scene officers.

“We’re all doing good,” he said. “We’ve already had our debrief and interview with the Rangers and I will now be getting some counseling set up for all of my officers that were involved, (including) the Coleman Police Department because they were also on the scene.”