A grand jury has ruled that Nebraska law enforcement personnel acted properly in an Oct. 23 shooting that left a suspect dead and a deputy injured.

In releasing its findings, the grand jury issued a "No True Bill." The independent panel found the man shot and killed in the incident, Manuel Adrian Ortiz-Ruiz, fired his weapon first, wounding a Dakota County Sheriff's Department deputy. According to the Nebraska State Patrol, the grand jury ruled the activities of the peace officers were justified under the circumstances and the officers involved in the shooting returned fire in strict and necessary accord with rules governing police contact with an individual who is armed and dangerous.

It was not released which officers from which agencies fired on Ortiz-Ruiz. The Dakota County Sheriff's Office and the Nebraska State Patrol responded to the scene.

At about 5 p.m. Oct. 23, the Dakota County Communications Center received a call for assistance involving a man with a gun at Siouxland Estates Mobile Home Park Lot 113 in South Sioux City.

The first call that came into the 911 center was in "limited English." An officer was dispatched. The incident was not dispatched as a domestic disturbance, but as a disturbance of unknown origin involving a man with a gun.The first officer on the scene was there within one minute.

"At the time, they observed two men coming out of a house and a third man coming out with a handgun who started to fire at officers," said Robert Finney, county attorney at the time.

Shots were exchanged and two men fled. The man who fired on officers was killed in the exchange. He was identified as Manuel Adrian Ortiz-Ruiz, 31, no known address, according to the Nebraska State Patrol.

The injured deputy was Anthony D. Bos, a six-year veteran of the Dakota County Sheriff's Department. He was reportedly shot in the lower left leg.

The Norfolk Police Department was called in to serve as the lead investigative agency on the shooting. The Federal Bureau of Investigation also investigated.

According to state law, an outside law enforcement agency must conduct an investigation in an officer-involved fatal shooting. The incident was sent to a grand jury for review, which is policy in the case of a death or serious injury involving a person in custody or the result of law enforcement action.

Raymond Speer of Omaha was named the special prosecutor in the grand jury. Speer is an Omaha attorney and a former Dakota County deputy county attorney who worked for Judge Maurice Redmond when Redmond was Dakota County attorney.

Dakota County Sheriff James Wagner said Friday that Bos is still recovering from the gunshot wound to the left lower leg from which he received a fractured bone.

"He is going to be off work for quite a while," Wagner said. "He is still home mending. The doctor said it is going to take a long time to heal up."