SUPERIOR TWP., MI – Police have identified the Superior Township man who was found dead in his home after allegedly shooting a Washtenaw County deputy responding to a felonious assault.

Nathan Kurt Hardenburg, 50, was found dead in his home following a tense police standoff after he allegedly opened fire on a lawn care worker and police responding to the scene, shooting one deputy, according to the Michigan State Police.

Standoff ends after alleged gunman who shot deputy is found dead

Police were initially called to the complex in the 8000 block of Lakeview Drive at 2:11 p.m. to respond to a felonious assault where a person shot at a neighbor during a dispute, police said.

The preliminary investigation indicated Hardenburg got into an argument with a lawn maintenance worker and soon pulled out a gun and started shooting at the worker, police said.

Hardenburg entered his residence and continued to shoot repeatedly from the home at police arriving at the scene, hitting one deputy, police said.

The deputy was taken to a local hospital for emergency treatment and has been released and is recovering, police said.

The name of the injured deputy and other deputies involved in the initial response to the scene are not being released at this time.

Hardenburg barricaded himself inside the home as additional police arrived at the scene and the neighborhood was locked down with police asking residents to stay inside, police said.

It is believed he was shooting at police using a rifle, but it is unclear what kind, according to the Washtenaw County Sheriff’s Office.

A Crisis Negotiation Team attempted to make contact with Hardenburg throughout the standoff, but was unsuccessful.

After about nine hours, police entered the home and found Hardenburg dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound though his death is still under investigation, police said.

The incident remains under investigation by the Michigan State Police First District Special Investigation Section.

No additional information is available this time as the incident remains under investigation.

Anyone experiencing thoughts of suicide can seek help from:

· The 24-hour National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Military veterans press #1.

· The Ozone House, a 24-hour hotline for youth, at 734-662-2222.

· The 24-hour hotline at University of Michigan Psychiatric Emergency Services at 734-936-5900.

· The Washtenaw County Community Mental Health crisis team at 734-544-3050.

More from The Ann Arbor News:

Graduate employees reach deal with University of Michigan to end strike

From policing to cannabis: former Detroit officer says cannabis ‘saved my life’

Misdemeanor convictions added to nondiscrimination ordinance in Ypsilanti