WORCESTER — The father of a mentally ill Leominster man who died after a well-being call to his home in 2018, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging that undertrained officers botched the call and that Worcester District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr. conducted a "charade" investigation.

“Within minutes the officers transformed (a) wellness check into a death sentence,” Hector E. Pineiro, the lawyer representing the father of 39-year-old Kris Mailloux, alleged in a suit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Worcester.

Mailloux died several days after two officers responding to a well-being call restrained him on the floor of his grandmother’s home at 384 West St. on Jan. 14, 2018.

Pineiro, in the lawsuit and a phone interview Thursday, alleged that officers used excessive force during the call, and that state police assigned to Early’s office conducted a “charade” of an investigation.

Pineiro, noting that the medical examiner’s office ruled the manner of death a homicide, said that, at a minimum, an inquest involving a neutral judge should have been conducted to determine whether charges were warranted.

He opined that, had anyone other than police officers restrained the man before his death, charges would have likely been filed.

Early’s office declined to comment Thursday, noting it does not comment on pending civil litigation. A message left with Leominster Police Chief Aaron Kennedy was not immediately returned.

According to the lawsuit, Mailloux had been descending into mental illness since his 20s and had, in the months before the incident, told friends the “feds” were out to get him.

Police had found him delirious by the side of the road the month before his death, Pineiro wrote, after which time he was admitted and diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and other previously unknown maladies.

Mailloux had an appointment with, but had not yet seen, a psychiatrist for follow-up the night he died, Pineiro said, and his condition had been worsening.

Police were called to the home after a caretaker of his 94-year-old grandmother reported the woman had called her and said Mailloux was acting erratically.

Mailloux took the phone from his grandmother and refused to return it, police wrote in reports, prompting officers to perform a well-being check.

Police allege in reports appended to the lawsuit that officers forcibly entered the home after Mailloux took hold of his grandmother to prevent her from opening the door.

Police said Mailloux, when police entered, was laying on his side on the floor, and that he refused commands to get up and remove his hands from his pockets.

Police said they then tried to stand Mailloux up, at which time he began thrashing wildly and refused to cooperate. Police said he continued “resisting” by kicking his legs, and was tasered after a warning and rolled onto his stomach.

Officers said they managed to cuff Mailloux, and that, upon turning him over, saw that he had turned blue/gray and was not breathing.

They performed CPR on him until medics arrived. Though his heartbeat was restored at the hospital, he suffered massive brain damage and died three days later.

Pineiro alleges police used excessive force during the encounter, holding Mailloux down so forcefully as to cause spinal cord damage that led to his death.

He alleged that state police assigned to Early conducted a “cursory” probe in which they failed to conduct detailed interviews with the man’s grandmother, among other deficiencies.

He alleges a detective on the case lobbied the medical examiner to consider factors other than the prone restraint, appending to the lawsuit copies of emails that indicate police sent the examiner articles examining the roles Tasers can play in a delirious person’s death.

In a document labeled “supplemental report” appended to the lawsuit, Mindy Hull, the state’s chief medical examiner, wrote that one of her employees received a text message from State Police Lt. Danial Wildgrube with “apparent instructions/suggestions for the OCME in handling this case.”

She said she discussed the “issue” with Assistant District Attorney Jeffrey Travers, Early’s second-in-command, “and he concurred that the OCME should proceed with its usual approach to this case.”

Pineiro alleges in the lawsuit that the two Leominster officers who restrained Mailloux, Juan D. Ramos and Matthew J. Diperri, were not properly trained in dealing with the mentally ill at the time of the call.

He names both officers, as well as the town, as defendants, arguing the department failed to properly train them.

Leominster police do not wear body cameras, and Pineiro said he is unaware of any video footage of the incident.

The lawsuit accuses the officers of excessive force, deliberate medical indifference, assault and battery and conspiracy (false reporting).

No one within state police or Early's office are named as defendants in the lawsuit.