Authorities have identified the woman killed in a crash in Moorpark early Wednesday after a pursuit by law enforcement.

Officials also released additional details about the circumstances.

Desiree Amador, 23, was an Oxnard resident, according to the Ventura County Medical Examiner's Office. She was declared dead at the scene. An autopsy was scheduled for Thursday. No one else was in the car.

The incident started in Oxnard around 1:10 a.m. Wednesday when California Highway Patrol officers from the agency's Ventura office tried to make an enforcement stop, said Officer Steve Lutzke, a spokesman for the Ventura CHP office. Two officers were in the patrol car.

The officers attempted the stop after observing a traffic violation on Del Norte Road near Highway 101, he said. Details about the alleged traffic violation were not available Thursday. The car got onto northbound Highway 101 and exited at Rose Avenue.

The car briefly stopped on Rose, but then kept going before the CHP officers were able to talk to the driver, Lutzke said. The vehicle turned right onto Auto Center Drive as the officers followed, then turned left onto Santa Clara Avenue heading toward Central Avenue. The officers had turned on the patrol car's lights and siren.

At that point, a high-speed pursuit kicked off, Lutzke said, and the driver "began to recklessly evade" the officers.

The officers noticed several signs warning of a construction zone ahead, he said, and saw the construction site in the distance as they neared Central. They terminated the pursuit due to the unsafe conditions, Lutzke said. In all, the Ventura CHP's involvement lasted about two minutes, he said.

Less than 15 minutes later, officers with the CHP's Moorpark office and a Ventura County Sheriff's deputy saw the vehicle, a black 2001 Honda Civic, near Somis. The car was heading east on Highway 118 toward Moorpark at high speeds, said sheriff's Sgt. William Hutton.

Hutton is patrol supervisor for the city of Moorpark, where the sheriff's office provides police services. The 118 is also called Los Angeles Avenue in the area.

Officers estimate the car was traveling at speeds of up to 100 to 110 mph through the city, Hutton said.

More local news:Santa Paula woman identified as Lake Cachuma drowning victim

The sheriff's deputy and the CHP officers turned on emergency lights and launched a pursuit, Hutton said.

There was minimal traffic on the roadway at the time, Hutton said. Because of the high speeds involved, the officers were about a half mile behind Amador's vehicle, he said.

The pursuit ended around 1:28 a.m. when the Honda went over the side of the road and down a 200-foot embankment, officials said. The accident happened off of White Sage Road, which extends east from Los Angeles Avenue east of the Highway 23 overpass. White Sage makes a right turn that Amador failed to negotiate, authorities said.

See what others are reading in the latest Ventura County news:

To access the crash site, sheriff's deputies, Ventura County firefighters and paramedics from private ambulance company American Medical Response had to rappel down the steep, wooded hillside with assistance from the sheriff's volunteer search and rescue team, authorities said. An AMR paramedic pronounced Amador dead at the scene.

The sheriff's office and the CHP are conducting a joint investigation into the crash, officials said.

Gretchen Wenner covers breaking news for the Ventura County Star. Reach her at gretchen.wenner@vcstar.com or 805-437-0270.

Local coverage is only possible with support from our readers. Sign up today for a digital subscription.