A woman was killed in Queens when the driver of the car she was riding in lost control and crashed through a fence into a wooded area, police said Sunday. (Jeff Bachner/for New York Daily News)





A drunken speeding driver killed a woman riding in his BMW when he crashed through a metal fence at 97 mph and slammed into a wooded area in Queens, prosecutors said Sunday.

Advertisement

Nicholas Thompson, 35, was barreling east on Rockaway Blvd. near the Nassau County border about 6:50 p.m. Saturday when he blasted by an unmarked NYPD vehicle, forcing the cops to swerve out of his way, prosecutors said.

He then lost control and veered off the road, crashing into a fence and trees, prosecutors said.

Advertisement

His passenger, 32-year-old Jolenna Favor of Far Rockaway, suffered severe head and body trauma. Medics found her in the passenger seat and pronounced her dead on the scene. The car’s crash data recorder showed he was going 97 mph five seconds before the wreck, prosecutors said.

The Daily News Flash Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

Thompson, who also lives in Far Rockaway, has a history of drunken driving arrests, and his license was revoked in 2011, police and prosecutors said.

He was arrested in Queens in 2008, and convicted in Nassau County in 2011 and in Chester County, Penn. in 2015, officials said.

A woman was killed in Queens when the driver of the car she was riding in lost control and crashed through a fence into a wooded area, police said Sunday. (Jeff Bachner/for New York Daily News)

“As a result of this defendant’s alleged criminal behavior, a woman’s life has been tragically cut short," Queens D.A. Melinda Katz said. "From the moment the defendant allegedly got behind the wheel of the car, intoxicated and with a revoked license, he was breaking the law and endangering the lives of everyone on the road. He will be held accountable for his alleged actions to the fullest extent of the law.”

The officers in the unmarked car saw him getting out of the BMW as they approached him. His eyes were bloodshot and watery, and his breath reeked of booze, prosecutors allege.

He refused to take a blood alcohol test, but admitted he was driving and that his friend was in the passenger seat, prosecutors said.

Thompson was hit with an array of charges after the crash that could land him in prison for 25 years if convicted at trial, including aggravated vehicular homicide, vehicular manslaughter and driving while intoxicated as a repeat offender.

He was awaiting arraignment in Queens criminal court.