A man who held police at bay for several hours Thursday until officers retreated in hopes of deescalating the situation was found dead Friday morning from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The man’s fiancée, Melissa Calcote, found him dead about 9 a.m. inside the bathroom of their home on Vinesville Road.

The ordeal began about 12:30 p.m. Thursday when West Precinct officers were dispatched to the house on a report of a domestic disturbance. Calcote told authorities Robert Sayre had been doing meth for five days and was damaging property inside the home.

She and her teen son and mother left the home and went to a nearby church to call 911. When officers arrived and approached the home, Sayre was holding a gun to his head and threatened to shoot himself or the police.

“She also mentioned he would go out in a blaze by suicide by cop,’' said Birmingham police spokesman Sgt. Rod Mauldin said. “He indicated he would harm himself if the police didn’t back off.”

Police then went into extensive negotiations with the man in an effort to get him to surrender. Those negotiations, however, failed. After several hours, police made the decision to retreat from the home.

“After we conducted an overall risk assessment, we backed off in hopes of deescalating the situation,’' Mauldin said, adding that there were no criminal charges pending against the man nor were there any hostages inside the home.

Calcote said once the standoff ended, she was told to go stay in a shelter. She couldn’t, however, because she has a dog, so she and other family members rented a hotel room for the night.

On Friday morning, she decided to return to the home in hopes that Sayre had calmed down and was possibly asleep. “I go inside, the door was not even locked, and I found him dead in my bathroom,’' a grieving Calcote told AL.com outside the home Friday. “He had a gun next to him and he was stiff, so it had to have happened yesterday.”

“I had gone to the police station about 5:30 p.m. (Thursday) and spoke with them and a social worker and asked them if they could come with me to get some of my stuff and check on him, and they said no,’' Calcote said. “I don’t know why they would have everybody out here and just leave him knowing he was unstable. Why would you do that? And not come and check on him or anything?”

Mauldin said when doing the risk assessment of making entry into the home on Thursday, police took into consideration that there were no charges against Sayre, the fact that he had threatened “suicide by cop” and the high level of traffic near the home at the time. The home is just off Bessemer Super Highway with multiple houses and businesses in close proximity.

“The risk was just too high for us to go in, not only the risk that he would harm himself, but officers and innocent people in the area,’' Mauldin said.

After retreating, Mauldin said police notified the department’s community service officers which help with suicide resources. The resources were also made available to Calcote. Sayre took his life, however, before anyone could reach out to him.

Mauldin said the public needs to be aware that there are suicide resources through the department’s social workers and encourages anyone who needs those resources to reach out, and the sooner the better.

If you or someone you know is suffering from suicidal ideation, call the national suicide hotline at 1-800-273-8255 or contact the Alabama Suicide Prevention and Resources Coalition.

Resources in Alabama