CHILTON COUNTY, Ala. (WBRC) - A man who is accused of firing at Chilton County deputies and Thorsby police officers Monday has died.

The suspect has been identified as Robert Earl Jackson of Thorsby. He was 54.

Robert Earl Jackson (Chilton County Jail)

Thorsby police conducted a traffic stop on Montgomery Avenue for a violation around 12:30 p.m. As officers came up to the vehicle, investigators say the driver pulled out a handgun and fired on the officers without any conversation or warning.

Deputies said Jackson ran through a construction site on Montgomery Avenue and continued to fire at officers.

Two Thorsby officers returned fire. They requested help from the Chilton County Sheriff’s Office, Tactical Response and K-9.

A K-9 located Jackson in a wooded area, hiding behind a fallen tree. Jackson then shot the K-9 “Missile” in the torso and fired at deputies, according to investigators.

Chilton Co. Deputies say the firearm was stolen (Chilton County Sheriff's Office)

Two deputies returned fire, hitting Jackson. A paramedic tried to treat him, but Jackson died at the scene. Missile was taken to a local veterinary clinic where he was treated and is expected to recover. No other law enforcement officers were hurt.

Missile - Chilton County Sheriff's Office K9 (Chilton County Sheriff's Office)

Investigators say Jackson has an extensive criminal history involving multiple violent crimes. He had multiple felony convictions for attempted murder, robbery and possession of methamphetamine. Jackson was out on bond for various charges out of Chilton County including possession of cocaine, possession of methamphetamine, certain persons forbidden to possess a firearm, resisting arrest and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Authorities said the firearm Jackson used in the shooting was stolen in June of 2020.

All of the officers and deputies involved were veteran law enforcement officers.

Based on evidence and witness statements, authorities have no reason to believe that any of the officers acted outside of departmental policy or Alabama law.

The Chilton County Sheriff’s Office and the Thorsby Police Department have requested the State Bureau of Investigations conduct a separate independent investigation and report those findings to the District Attorney’s Office.

Copyright 2020 WBRC. All rights reserved.