The man who was shot and killed Friday night by Leon County deputies held another man, his girlfriend and a third person at gunpoint — and threatened to kill any law enforcement officers who might respond, according to one of the victims.

Daniel Spencer, who lives with his girlfriend near Aenon Church Road and Highway 20, recounted the events that led to the death of the man, an acquaintance he identified and the Sheriff's Office later confirmed as James Edward Baker, 38, of Tallahassee.

Spencer didn’t see the shooting with his own eyes — by that time he’d escaped and called 911 at a nearby convenience store. But he praised the work of deputies who arrived in time to save his girlfriend.

“They did a good job,” he said. “I’m glad they did it. He deserved every bit he got, really, I think. The main thing is everybody’s alright except him. That’s good.”

The Sheriff’s Office, which could not confirm all of Spencer’s account, said a call came in around 7:40 p.m. regarding a possible hostage situation in the 2000 block of Aenon Church Road.

Deputies arrived at a nearby location and made contact with the complainant, who said “an armed white male” broke into his home and was holding someone hostage, the Sheriff’s Office said in a news release.

“Deputies responded to the incident location and upon making contact with two subjects in the driveway of the residence, the suspect turned and opened fire on the deputies,” LCSO said. “Deputies then returned fire, fatally wounding the suspect.”

No one else was injured, and the Sheriff’s Office noted the incident was believed to be “isolated and not random.”

Spencer, 55, whose mobile home lies down a hill tucked off Aenon Church Road, said his girlfriend was about to cook dinner when Baker showed up unannounced. He knew him as someone who lives in the Highway 20 area and had bought a boat from him a few days earlier.

But Baker seemed like he was high on something, Spencer said. His girlfriend gave him a bowl of black-eyed peas and ham, which he took to his car before returning. He said his wallet was missing and began to accuse them of taking it.

“He started acting weird,” Spencer said. “He was just trying to rob us and stuff like that.”

He started waving around a handgun outside the house, aiming it at Spencer and his girlfriend and at one point putting it directly to Spencer’s forehead. Spencer tried to cool him down. But Baker made threats, including against law enforcement.

“I just tried to keep him calm,” Spencer said. “I tried to tell him it was stupid ... but he wouldn’t put the gun down or nothing. He was ready to do that anyway, I had already figured, because all he talked about was if they pull up, he’s going to shoot them right there. And when they came down, there he goes, starts shooting at them.”

At some point before deputies arrived — Spencer said things happened so fast he wasn’t sure about everything — a friend happened to walk up. Spencer tried to warn him off, but Baker pointed the gun at him, too.

“That’s when (that) friend ... threw him off a little bit and gave us a chance to escape real quick,” Spencer said.

Spencer said he and his girlfriend both ran. He lost his shoes in the mayhem and ran to a nearby gas station to get help. His girlfriend hid for a time. But Baker apparently found her.

“He had her lay down and had a gun on her when the cops came or something like that,” Spencer said in an interview with the Democrat

Spencer described a scenario similar to suicide-by-cop.

“He had it already in his mind he was gonna start shooting regardless,” he said. “He was always talking ... well I put two and two together. He said he was bullcrapping, but he wasn’t. He was dead serious. When he pulled that gun, I already knew it was loaded.”

Spencer said he was grateful he and his girlfriend and their friend escaped with their lives. He said he had a hard time sleeping after the shooting. But he appeared to be moving on with his life on Saturday morning, as he hosed down the blood in his driveway.

“A gun to my head doesn’t phase me,” he said. “I was just worried about her more than anything.”

Spencer said Baker wasn’t allowed to have a gun but got one from a girlfriend, who recently moved out of town. He said he figured Baker planned to rob him before moving himself. But he otherwise had no explanation for the bizarre events of the night.

“It’s a new one on me,” he said. “I guess it’s part of the way things go around here but it’s Highway 20.”

The Sheriff’s Office did not say how many deputies fired their weapons or how many times Baker was shot. The deputies involved were placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.

“This investigation remains active at this time,” the Sheriff’s Office said.

The incident is the fourth officer-involved shooting this year in Leon County and the first involving the sheriff's office. Earlier this year, the Tallahassee Police Department killed three suspects in separate incidents in a two-month span. Those shootings were deemed justified by a grand jury last month.

Back story:Grand jury says force justified in TPD shootings; report and others point to missteps

So far, 21 people have died and at least 49 have been injured in 57 shooting incidents in Tallahassee and Leon County this year, according to a Tallahassee Democrat analysis of gun violence.

Never miss a story: Subscribe to the Tallahassee Democrat.