The man who shot and killed a Myrtle Beach police officer Saturday night was a 20-year-old who had talked about joining the military and spoke of how much he supported law enforcement, his friends said.

John Derek Aycoth of Myrtle Beach died after a shootout with police around 10 p.m. Saturday, authorities said. On Monday, Horry County Chief Deputy Coroner Tamara Willard identified Aycoth as the gunman. She would not say whether he was killed by officers or if he took his own life.

Condolences pour in for slain Myrtle Beach officer The Grand Strand mourned Myrtle Beach police officer Jacob Hancher Sunday morning.

Willard said the State Law Enforcement Division would provide more information as they conducted their investigation. The shooting claimed the life of officer Jacob Hancher, a 23-year-old who had been on patrol for less than a year.

“I don’t know, but this, from the kid that worked for me, this blows my mind,” said Chasity Farmer, who was Aycoth’s manager at Charlotte Russe in Coastal Grand Mall, where Aycoth worked for about four weeks this past summer.

“He backed his brothers in blue, is what he used to say. So I don’t understand what happened.”

Witnesses said the shooting followed an argument between Aycoth and his girlfriend. They said Aycoth took his dog King on a walk. He got back around the same time as officers rolled up to the apartment where he lived at the corner of 14th Avenue South and Yaupon Drive.

When officers approached the house, witnesses said, Aycoth opened fire and a gun battle ensued. The shooting left Hancher dead and another officer wounded.

Friends said everything about the shooting was out of character for Aycoth.

“I know it looks really bad because it’s a police officer, and we feel really bad for both sides, but he was a good kid,” Chasity Farmer said. “He probably was drinking, got into it with his girlfriend, and I don’t know what else happened.”

Chasity Farmer and her husband Eddie Farmer became friends with Aycoth after they moved to the area from Tennessee. They described him as a friendly jokester who was always on time.