Updated at 3:10 p.m.: Revised to reflect that the officer is being held in the Collin County jail.

A murder arrest-warrant affidavit released Wednesday for a Wolfe City police officer reveals additional details in the fatal shooting over the weekend, including that the victim initially extended the officer his hand.

Shaun Lucas (Collin County Sheriff's Office)

The officer, 22-year-old Shaun David Lucas, was arrested Monday on a murder charge in the death of 31-year-old Jonathan Price. Lucas is white and Price was Black.

According to the affidavit, written by a Texas Ranger, Lucas was called just before 8:30 p.m. Saturday to a convenience store in the 100 block of South Santa Fe Street in Wolfe City after a “possible fight in progress” was reported.

Advertisement

Price approached Lucas and reached out, offering a handshake, while asking “You doing good?” several times, the affidavit says. He also apologized for broken glass on the ground and said someone had tried to “wrap me up.”

Advertisement

Lucas later told authorities he believed Price was intoxicated and tried to detain him, but Price said, “I can’t be detained,” the affidavit says.

Crime in The News Read the crime and public safety news your neighbors are talking about. Email Address By signing up you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy SUBMIT

After unsuccessfully trying to grab Price’s arm and “using verbal commands,” Lucas pulled out his Taser and warned Price that he would use it if Price didn’t follow his orders, according to the affidavit. Price started walking away and Lucas deployed the Taser, but it wasn’t “fully effective.”

The affidavit says Price walked toward Lucas while being Tased and appeared to grab the end of the officer’s stun gun.

Jonathan Price's family has said he was trying to break up a fight.

Lucas then fired four shots from his service weapon, striking Price in the upper torso, the affidavit says. Price was taken to Hunt Regional Medical Center, where he died.

The entire interaction between the two men was recorded on the officer’s body camera, the affidavit says. That footage has not been released.

Advertisement

The Rangers previously said that Price resisted “in a non-threatening posture” and that their investigation found that the officer’s actions “were not … reasonable.”

Price’s friends and relatives have said he was trying to break up a fight that evening, and that witnesses told them he had his hands up when the officer fired his Taser.

‘In accordance with Texas law’

The affidavit’s mention of the Taser aligns with a Tuesday statement from Lucas’ attorney, Robert Rogers, which said Price “did not claim to be an uninvolved, innocent party” and that he had tried to take the officer’s Taser.

Advertisement

“After Mr. Price refused repeated instructions and physically resisted, Officer Lucas deployed his Taser and continued to give Mr. Price instructions,” Rogers said in the statement. “Mr. Price resisted the effects of the Taser and attempted to take it away from Officer Lucas. Officer Lucas only discharged his weapon in accordance with Texas law when he was confronted with an aggressive assailant who was attempting to take his Taser.”

Advertisement

Civil-rights attorney Lee Merritt, who is working with Price’s family, has said that Lucas should have been arrested sooner.

“This is step one,” Merritt tweeted Monday night after the officer’s arrest. “Let’s see it through to justice.”

Advertisement

The shooting came amid continued nationwide demonstrations against systemic racism and police brutality, which were sparked by the death of George Floyd on Memorial Day while in the custody of Minneapolis police.

Price’s cousin Barbara Price said Tuesday that her family will seek to have police officers receive better training.

“We’re going to have nights of crying — months of crying,” she said. “But at the same time, we’re going to work together to try to find a way to get this stopped.”

Advertisement

Employment status unclear

Lucas was booked into the Hunt County jail Monday night, with bail set at $1 million. Hunt County Sheriff Randy Meeks told the Greenville Herald-Banner that because Lucas was previously employed by his department, he was transferred to the Rockwall County jail.

Since then, he has been transferred to the Collin County jail, where he was being held Wednesday.

Before receiving his Texas peace officer’s license this spring, Lucas worked as a Hunt County jailer.

Advertisement

It is unclear whether the police department in Wolfe City, a city of 1,500 people about a 70-mile drive northeast of Dallas, still employs him. The City Council plans to discuss the shooting in a closed session during a special meeting Thursday night.

The police department has not commented on the case; the city has said only that an officer was placed on leave after an “officer-involved shooting.”

The Texas Rangers have said they are working with the Wolfe City Police Department and the Hunt County district attorney’s office on the investigation.