A driver was killed after he was hit by a suspect during a police chase in Fayette County on Monday. According to state police, Dominique Kitchen, 28, lead Uniontown police officers on a chase through parts of the city late Monday afternoon. Court documents allege, Kitchen ran multiple stop signs, including the stop sign at Thomas Street and Connellsville Street. That's where police said Kitchen collided with a truck heading north on Connellsville Street.Court documents identify the driver of the truck as Elias Nickman. He died at the hospital. Kitchen is currently hospitalized and being treated for injuries sustained in the crash.State police said agents from the Attorney General's office were conducting a narcotics investigation in the area of Lincoln Street in Uniontown.Police said Kitchen was seen conducting a suspected drug deal in the area, and agents began to follow his vehicle. According to the criminal complaint, Kitchen stopped along Lenox Street when a Uniontown city police cruiser pulled behind him and initiated a traffic stop. Police said that's when Kitchen fled, initiating the chase.State police said the chase and the entire incident remain under investigation."A felony was committed. That was the reason for the stop initially and it led to a pursuit," Trooper Robert Broadwater said. Pittsburgh's Action News 4 obtained surveillance video from a nearby auto shop of the crash on Tuesday. The video shows the collision, and police arriving at the scene seconds later. Police said Kitchen ran multiple stop signs during the chase, at times driving on the wrong side of the road in order to pass vehicles.Kitchen was charged with criminal homicide, homicide by vehicle and numerous other charges. He was hospitalized following the crash and has not been arraigned.

A driver was killed after he was hit by a suspect during a police chase in Fayette County on Monday.

According to state police, Dominique Kitchen, 28, lead Uniontown police officers on a chase through parts of the city late Monday afternoon. Court documents allege, Kitchen ran multiple stop signs, including the stop sign at Thomas Street and Connellsville Street. That's where police said Kitchen collided with a truck heading north on Connellsville Street.

Advertisement

Court documents identify the driver of the truck as Elias Nickman. He died at the hospital. Kitchen is currently hospitalized and being treated for injuries sustained in the crash.

State police said agents from the Attorney General's office were conducting a narcotics investigation in the area of Lincoln Street in Uniontown.

Police said Kitchen was seen conducting a suspected drug deal in the area, and agents began to follow his vehicle. According to the criminal complaint, Kitchen stopped along Lenox Street when a Uniontown city police cruiser pulled behind him and initiated a traffic stop. Police said that's when Kitchen fled, initiating the chase.

State police said the chase and the entire incident remain under investigation.

"A felony was committed. That was the reason for the stop initially and it led to a pursuit," Trooper Robert Broadwater said.

Pittsburgh's Action News 4 obtained surveillance video from a nearby auto shop of the crash on Tuesday. The video shows the collision, and police arriving at the scene seconds later.

Police said Kitchen ran multiple stop signs during the chase, at times driving on the wrong side of the road in order to pass vehicles.

Kitchen was charged with criminal homicide, homicide by vehicle and numerous other charges. He was hospitalized following the crash and has not been arraigned.