FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. (WNCN) – The SBI confirmed it is investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting that occurred late Tuesday outside Fayetteville.

The SBI said Cumberland County deputies were performing a well-being check near Pitcairn and Metthame drives in the Gates Four neighborhood when they encountered an armed man.

The SBI emailed a statement saying:

“The SBI is investigating an officer-involved shooting involving the Cumberland County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO). According to CCSO, they were conducting a well-being check when deputies say they encountered a man with a firearm who pointed the weapon at them. The man was fatally shot by a Cumberland County deputy. The investigation is ongoing.”

The Cumberland County Sheriff’s Office posted a picture taken from the scene to social media.

They referred all questions about the investigation to the SBI.

Reports show there haven’t been any other calls for service to that home in the past 12 months.

The 911 call from last night is not being released due to the ongoing investigation.

The man’s daughter did not want to go into details about what happened, but said on the phone that her father was a good man.

Meanwhile the SBI continues investigating the Cumberland County officer involved shooting death of Adrian Roberts.

It happened in August while officers were at his home for an involuntary commitment order.

Officers say Roberts charged at them with a machete.

Roberts’ family says the veteran had PTSD and mental health issues, and they don’t think officers handled the situation correctly.

We asked the SBI how long these investigations normally take.

They say each one is different and there are too many variables to provide a timetable.

Heavy Sheriff’s Office presence on Pitcairn Dr and Metthame Dr in reference to a death investigation. Traffic is closed at the intersection. Details to come as they are available pic.twitter.com/XsFbE3LF7r — Sheriff Ennis Wright (@Sheriff_EWright) October 7, 2020

Further details on the incident are scant at this time.