Lagrange, KY. (Oct. 6, 2020) – The Kentucky State Police Post 5 in Campbellsburg continue the investigation into a late night fatal collision from yesterday resulting in the death of two men. Tenzal Tracy-Demarco Hill, 26, and Brandon Burnett North, 28, both of Louisville were pronounced deceased at the scene. Preliminary investigation indicates Hill was the operator of the 2020 Toyota Camry at the time of the collision, and was suspected to be traveling in excess of 100mph prior to the collision. No KSP vehicles were involved in the collision. Both victims were ejected from the vehicle during the collision.

It was discovered that Hill had an active warrant out of Ohio for both aggravated robbery and armed robbery, along with domestic violence aggravated battery and drug charges. During the investigation at the scene investigators discovered two handguns, as well as drugs (including marijuana and cocaine) and drug paraphernalia.

No charges are pending at this time, however the investigation remains ongoing by Post 5 detectives and the accident reconstruction team. A toxicology report is pending on Hill, the operator of the vehicle. KSP Post 5 was assisted at the scene and in the investigation by the KSP Critical Incident Response Team, Henry County Sheriffs Department, Oldham County Police Department, Lagrange Police Department, Oldham County Sheriffs Department, Lagrange Fire Department, Oldham County EMS, Henry County State Highway Department, Oldham County State Highway Department, and the Oldham County Coroners Office.

Original News Release below:



Lagrange, KY. (Oct. 6, 2020) – The Kentucky State Police at Post 5 in Campbellsburg are investigating a single vehicle collision on Interstate 71 resulting in two fatalities. On Monday, October 5th at approximately 10:49pm a Trooper initiated a traffic stop on a blue Toyota in Henry County, I-71 Southbound, for a speeding violation. After initially stopping, the vehicle then sped away from the stop leading Troopers on a vehicle pursuit on I-71 southbound through Henry into Oldham County. Approximately a mile prior to reaching the Lagrange exit, the vehicle left the road and overturned.

Two occupants of the vehicle were transported to University of Louisville Hospital for injuries sustained in the collision. Two other occupants were pronounced deceased at the scene by the Oldham County Coroner. Investigators are working to determine identities of the victims. The investigation remains ongoing at this time.

# # #