The woman killed during an armed Tuesday standoff with Nassau County deputies in her family's Hilliard backyard has been identified as Crystal Starling Mcclinton, according to family members.

The 48-year-old pointed an AR-15 rifle at a deputy after making repeated threats to negotiators and a 911 dispatcher before she was shot, the Sheriff's Office said.

But her son wrote on Facebook that his mother was "taken from us unjustly" on his grandfather's property on Ruby Drive just east of U.S. 1, and he will seek justice for her "in every way possible."

"A deputy who is now on paid vacation because he took the life of a mother and grandmother," Chance Mcclinton wrote. "We all know how my mother can be. We all know she has a big mouth. But would she shoot and kill a police officer or anyone else — absolutely not."

The Sheriff's Office said it had no comment on the son's statement or the case as the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the State Attorney's Office are handling the investigations.

The situation began about 1:30 p.m. when Crystal Mcclinton got into a confrontation with someone at her ex-husband's home over domestic and custody issues, the Sheriff's Office said. An injunction had been filed against her to stay away from the home. In 911 recordings, the person at the ex-husband's home told dispatchers Mcclinton threatened to return with an AR-15 "to blow us all away," adding that she could smell alcohol on her.

Mcclinton returned to her home, a camper on her father's property, very upset and making threats to kill herself, her father told investigators. SWAT officers were sent after the woman barricaded herself in the camper with weapons reported to be inside with her. She continued to make threats to kill herself, calling 911 and threatening others on the street and waving an AR-15 as she stood outside, the Sheriff's Office said.

As SWAT members and deputies surrounded the camper, Mcclinton told a 911 dispatcher that she saw the green helmet of a deputy in the woods and demanded he leave before she would come out.

"I don't want to hurt nobody," she said.

When the Sheriff's Office said she pointed the rifle at the SWAT deputy, she was shot.

The 48-year-old has a long list of domestic issues and arrests dating back to 2001, according to Nassau court records. She also was mistakenly stopped by four Nassau deputies in 2005 as she drove with her then 7-year-old daughter near her Hilliard area home.

"Once they kept coming with all their guns pointing, I started screaming to one of them to quit pointing the guns at my windshield because my daughter was there," she told The Times-Union at the time.

Then-Sheriff Tommy Seagraves said it was a case of mistaken identity as they searched for a suspect in a silver Dodge truck, and pulled over Mcclinton's gray one.

Her son wrote that his mother was shot by a deputy who "apparently had just had enough of dealing with her," despite his grandfather pleading they not shoot her because "she just needs help." He said he last spoke to her just before she was shot, asking her to give up and go to jail.

Dan Scanlan: (904) 359-4549