PALM CITY— Emergency officials initially were told a man identified as Justin Caldwell had weapons and “wanted suicide by cop.”

It wasn’t long Thursday morning before sheriff's investigators said Caldwell, 47, pointed a long gun at Martin County Sheriff’s SWAT team members at his residence in the 2000 block of Southwest Racquet Club Drive.

“They are forced to defend themselves … and they fire on the subject,” said Martin County Sheriff’s Chief Deputy Robert Seaman.

Caldwell was taken to a hospital but died, while his wife and children got out safely, said Seaman, speaking along Southwest Martin Downs Boulevard outside the gated community where the incident occurred.

This is the first shooting death by an officer in the county in about two years, Seaman said.

He said the incident began at 7:07 a.m. when Caldwell’s wife called authorities, saying her husband had a number of weapons and was in the garage area.

"The subject in question had multiple firearms including long guns, rifles, shotguns and possibly multiple handguns" Seaman said. "He was in a garage area with the weapons, had numerous amounts of magazines, ammunition and armor-piercing ammunition."

Armed and dangerous

Seaman described the incident as an armed and dangerous domestic call. He said during the call, the topic of divorce or separation came up.

Caldwell's demeanor was described as uncooperative, Seaman said.

This was the first domestic-related violence call the Sheriff's Office has had for the household, he said.

"I do know that the wife relayed that multiple times that his intent was to engage and be shot himself," Seaman said.

When the SWAT team arrived at the home Seaman said law enforcement officers safely got Caldwell's wife and two daughters, ages 13 and 11 out of the home.

"Part of the initial call was the subject had the weapons and he wanted suicide by cop," Seaman said.

At least two nearby homes were evacuated, he said.

More:Teen, 16, shot three times, faces adult charges after deputy-involved shooting

The SWAT team then tried to get Caldwell to come out without weapons. Caldwell was shot after investigators said he pointed a rifle at the SWAT team.

"Our SWAT team...verbally engaged the subject, advised the subject to drop the weapon and come and talk to them and that was unsuccessful as well," he said.

Sheriff's officials said the incident had ended and the area was secure by about 8:30 a.m.

As of Thursday afternoon it wasn't immediately clear how many shots were fired. Seaman said more than one member of the SWAT team fired shots. He said SWAT officers were “not a significant distance” when the incident happened.

"A standard routine for the officers that were involved in the shooting is they will be placed on administrative leave," Seaman said. "We will parallel that investigation with the State Attorney's Office."

Seaman said the FBI and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement have been notified of the incident.

He said Caldwell legally possessed the firearms he had inside the home.

'Shocked by the tragedy that unfolded'

Several neighbors on Southwest Racquet Club Drive either did not wish to speak or did not answer their door, but one friend, Krista Singleton, said via text that the Caldwells were a kind family.

"We know the Caldwells as a fun, kind, and generous family and were shocked by the tragedy that unfolded this morning," Singleton said. "Our community is heartbroken for them right now and we are all just praying for Justin’s wife and sweet daughters during this terrible time."

Singleton had high praise for the manner in which law enforcement handled the incident.

"I felt like the Sheriff's (Office) did a very good job of getting us all inside and safe as the situation unfolded," she said. "We are a close-knit community and already friends are reaching out and asking how we can serve this dear family during their time of loss."

According to the Federal Aviation Administration, Caldwell is a licensed airline pilot who has commercial privileges and is registered in New Jersey.

A Parkland-based business, Five Start Flight Solutions, Inc., was established in 2009 and was administratively closed by the state in 2011 when no annual reports were filed, state records show. Justin Caldwell was listed as CEO of the business and his wife Michelle Caldwell was the firm’s registered agent.

In 1996 Caldwell created a company in Clearwater called Aero Hygiene Systems, Inc., but the business ended the next year.

From 2004 to 2009 Caldwell operated a business called Hawkings Services, in Maitland Florida.

"Unfortunately, increasingly our staff members are having to respond to calls like this ... that have not ended in this way...," Seaman said. "It is troubling to see the amount of calls related to domestic and mental-type issues."

____________

Melissa E. Holsman contributed to this article.

Sara Marino and Will Greenlee are TCPalm breaking news reporters You can reach Sara on Twitter @saradmarino or email her at Sara.Marino@tcpalm.com. Follow Will on Twitter @OffTheBeatTweet or email him at will.greenlee@tcpalm.com

If you're a subscriber, thank you. If not, become a subscriber to get the latest breaking news.