MYRTLE BEACH, SC (WBTW) – Four men have been charged in connection with a fatal crash after a sheriff’s office chase on Highway 52 in Florence .

Investigators with the Florence County Sheriff’s Office say at about 2:36 p.m. on Wednesday they attempted to stop a car on Highway 52 (South Irby Street) near the intersection of Redbud Lane while working an undercover drug operation. The driver would not stop for the deputy’s blue light and led the deputy on a chase heading south on Irby Street, according to the report.

A short time later, the suspect’s car struck a pickup near McLaughlin Road, causing the pickup to cross over the grass median and collide with a cement mixer in the northbound lane of South Irby Street, deputies said.

The driver of the pickup died as a result of the crash. He has been identified as 38-year-old Derrick Brown of Lake City, according to Florence County Coroner Keith VonLutcken.

Tysnick Hoggard

No deputies were injured in the incident, and no sheriff’s office vehicles were involved in the collisions. The South Carolina Highway Patrol is investigating the collisions.

The suspects’ vehicle was allegedly driven by Tysnick Hoggard, 28, of Middletown, Conn., according to the sheriff’s office. He has been charged with reckless homicide, failure to stop for a blue light among other drug and weapons-related charges.

Trever McCray

Passengers alleged to have been in the vehicle at the time of the incident are Trevor McCray, 21, of Lake City; Salvadore Pizzuto, 27, of Middletown, Conn.; and Brian McCrea, 27, of Lake City. Pizzuto is alleged to have attempted to flee the scene of the accident on foot but was apprehended a short time later. All three have been charged with various drug and weapons offenses.

These are the charges for each:

Salvadore Pizzuto

Tysnick Hoggard: reckless homicide, failure to stop for blue light with great bodily injury, trafficking in cocaine, possession of marijuana, trafficking in cocaine base (crack cocaine), possession of methamphetamine, and possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime.

Trevor McCray: possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime, possession of marijuana, possession of methamphetamine, trafficking in cocaine and trafficking in methamphetamine.

Brian McCrea

Salvadore Pizzuto: unlawful carrying of a pistol. possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime, trafficking in cocaine base, possession of methamphetamine, possession of marijuana, and trafficking in cocaine.

Brian McCrea: possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime, possession of methamphetamine, trafficking in cocaine base, trafficking in cocaine and trafficking in methamphetamine.

All four suspects have been denied bond by a Florence County Magistrate and are being held at the Florence County Detention Center.

The investigation into this incident is ongoing, and additional arrests and charges possible.

LATEST HEADLINES: