A high-speed chase starting in Russell Township the morning of Oct. 4 ended in a roll-over and death of the driver in Newbury Township.

A high-speed chase starting in Russell Township the morning of Oct. 4 ended in a roll-over and death of a Cuyahoga Falls man in Newbury Township.

The driver of the stolen 2010 Lexus GX460 was Andrew Flynn, 24, of 1316 Sackett Ave., Cuyahoga Falls, said Ohio State Highway Patrol Sgt. Ron Bornino Oct. 5.

Flynn was pronounced dead at the scene and identified Monday by the Cuyahoga County coroner, Bornino said.

Geauga County Sheriff Scott Hildenbrand said Sunday his department received a call from the Russell Township Police Department that a man — who had not been identified at the time — had stolen a car and was eastbound on Kinsman Road at a high rate of speed with a Russell Township police officer in pursuit.

Deputies started to drive west toward Russell when they observed a speeding car and clocked it at 103 mph, the sheriff said.

The officers turned around to follow, but the car had already crashed at the intersection of Bass Lake and Kinsman roads by the time they arrived, he said.

“It takes a while to catch up to someone going that fast,” Hildenbrand said.

Newbury Township resident Kathy Reinke said she was headed to Middlefield for breakfast with a friend, who was following her in a separate vehicle.

The stolen car passed her friend’s car and Reinke said she heard tires screeching.

“I looked in my rearview mirror and saw a car go off the road and went airborne. It almost hit me,” she said.

The speeding car flew off the left side of the road, rolled over a patch of grass and came to rest at the end of Bass Lake Road, she said.

Reinke said she pulled over and was told to wait for an officer to take her statement.

Several deputies and the Ohio State Highway Patrol arrived at the scene shortly after the accident. An ambulance from Burton Fire Department was also there.

Bornino verified Oct. 5 the vehicle was stolen from a Russell resident and, when the vehicle went off the road in Newbury it hit a culvert, causing it to roll over.

The driver was ejected through the sunroof, Bornino said.

A stolen .38-caliber Smith and Wesson handgun registered to a Moreland Hills resident was found at the scene of the accident and was turned over to the Moreland Hills Police Department, Bornino said.