The first bullet knocked the gun right out of Sgt. James Gentile's hand. The second slammed into his bulletproof vest as he reached for the weapon. The third tore through his stomach as he stood up and squeezed off 10 rounds. It was only then that the hero cop from the 75th Precinct called for backup. "This is the Seven-Five sergeant. I'm shot in the arm, I'm shot in the chest," Gentile screamed over his NYPD radio. "Get me help.

" Those were the first terrifying moments of a gun battle between suspected drug dealer Renardo Powell, 25, and police along a stretch of five darkened, labyrinthine blocks in Brooklyn on Wednesday night. The shootout began minutes after Powell and his alleged accomplice, Corey Thompson, 25, robbed another suspected drug dealer near 55 Church Ave. in Flatbush. When the robbers fled in a Ford Expedition livery cab, their victim tailed them in his own car, calling 911 to alert cops - and dodging a bullet fired by Thompson. Gentile and his partner, Officer William Kennedy, spotted the white Expedition by Jerome St. and Sutter Ave. in East New York. "Pull to the curb," Gentile ordered over the radio car's loudspeaker. "Hands on the wheel.

Advertisement

" As Gentile and Kennedy approached, Powell suddenly leaped from the back of the SUV, firing a 9-mm. automatic. The cops returned fire. Despite being wounded, Gentile flung open the police cruiser door, taking cover as he got off 10 rounds. Kennedy emptied his clip and reloaded, shooting 20 bullets at the SUV. Some of them hit their mark. Thompson was in the backseat, shot in the leg. Another bullet went through the back of the driver's seat, hitting livery driver Harlin Marte in the back. But Powell escaped, fleeing on foot up Sutter Ave. as a radio car raced toward him and the shooting scene. When Powell saw the lights and sirens, he fired at the car, police officials said. "He fired at them before they even realized he was passing them. The cops didn't see him running by," said a high-ranking police official. More gunfire was exchanged. By then, more cops had joined the chase. They caught up to Powell at Jerome St. and Belmont Ave. More bullets flew, and finally Powell was mortally wounded, shot twice in the head, once in the arm and once in the leg, police officials said. In the battle, rookie cop Anthony Vidot was grazed by a bullet. He was released from the hospital yesterday. Police sources said Powell and Thompson ran a drug ring in upstate Binghamton, using Marte, 24, as their regular driver, sources said. Thompson and Marte were under arrest at Brookdale University Hospital. They were charged with robbery, even as Marte's family and Fernando Mateo, president of the Federation of Taxi Drivers, characterized him as a victim. "He was basically just doing his job," Mateo said. "He was a victim, just like the police officers. When you go out [on a call], if that passenger pulls out a weapon and tells you to drive, you do it.

" But police sources said Marte admitted knowing his passengers were drug dealers and even waited for them as they committed the earlier robbery. Wednesday night's shooting was not Gentile's first. In 1996, he was involved in a controversial fatal shooting during a car stop. He was cleared of any wrongdoing in the shooting of Aswan Watson, 23, who was reaching under his car seat, leading police to believe he was grabbing a gun. Gentile was in stable condition at Jamaica Hospital last night. His wife, Dawn, obviously shaken by her husband's brush with near-death, said it sheds light on a lack of manpower in the 75th Precinct. "He's doing fine," she said, as she nervously dragged on a cigarette and sipped coffee. "We are just thankful he is alive. I hope people appreciate what he does.

Advertisement

"