The family of a 20-year-old woman who was struck and killed by a speeding NYPD patrol car in the Bronx — in a horrifying caught-on-video incident — is planning to sue the city, NYPD and a police officer for $20 million, paperwork filed Thursday shows.

Sophia Gomez Aguilon was crossing Pelham Parkway in the crosswalk at Wallace Avenue around 3:26 p.m. Oct. 5 when the police car ran a red light and careened into her with its sirens blaring and lights flashing, cops said. The young woman, who had come from her native Guatemala two months earlier, was rushed to Jacobi Medical Center but died from her injuries three days later.

The family plans to sue the city, the NYPD and Police Officer Ceasar Munoz, who was driving the vehicle, for “negligence and/or recklessness,” according to a notice of claim filed with the city Comptroller’s Office.

The speed limit on the stretch of road where the patrol car struck her was 30 mph. The officer was doing about 60 as he answered a request for assistance from cops who had stopped a vehicle on the Throgs Neck Bridge. The responding officers erroneously believed shots had been fired on the bridge, police said. said.

Video captured the moment the cop car broadsided the young woman as she tried to cross southbound Pelham Parkway.

“The video of the accident is absolutely horrifying,” said attorney Louis Grandelli, who filed the notice. “It shows Sofia walking across Pelham Parkway in the crosswalk with the pedestrian light in her favor. She’s approximately halfway across the block, and she sees the police car coming towards her. It’s evident that she first tries to run toward the sidewalk, but then she freezes, obviously out of fear.”

“The fact that Sofia could see the police car coming toward her but that the officer didn’t see her and take any evasive action to try to avoid hitting her raises serious questions about where he could have possibly been looking as he sped through a red light at a busy intersection,” the lawyer said. “My heart goes out to the family.”

The family plans to seek $10 million for pain and suffering and $10 million for wrongful death, according to the notice.

The police officers who were involved are no longer on patrol, officials said.

The crash is being investigated by Attorney General Letitia James, who said in a statement that her office can investigate “cases in which a law enforcement officer causes the death of an unarmed civilian.”

“We will review the lawsuit if and when we are served,” said NYPD spokeswoman Sgt. Mary Frances O’Donnell.