Frederick senator agrees to protective order terms

A state senator from Frederick County has agreed to immediately move out of his Mount Airy home after allegations by his wife that he pushed her on a bed, then choked her when she got up. The agreement yesterday followed a request for a protective order filed Tuesday on behalf of Sallie Brinkley, wife of Republican Sen. David Brinkley. Under the agreement, David Brinkley is consenting to the protective order without admitting that any abuse occurred. Both parties agreed not to threaten, harass or abuse the other. Sallie Brinkley will have custody of the couple's two children, a 16-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy. The senator will have visitation rights. Frederick County sheriff's deputies responded to domestic difficulties at the couple's home this week and in May. Neither visit resulted in charges.

Advertisement

Associated Press

Owings Mills man charged in wife's strangulation

Advertisement

A 54-year-old Owings Mills man was charged yesterday with first-degree murder in the strangulation of his wife, whose body was found Wednesday at their home, Baltimore County police said. Nankisoor Ramnath of the first block of N. Ritters Lane was denied bail and is being held at the Baltimore County Detention Center, according to police. Authorities were called to the residence about 6:30 p.m. Wednesday by the woman's 19-year-old daughter, who said she found the body of her mother, Nirmala Maharaj, 50, in a crawl space under the house. The cause of death was determined to be strangulation. Ramnath was charged with murder after police interviewed him and other family members. Police said the couple had quarreled early Wednesday. Maharaj had obtained a temporary protective order against Ramnath in March 2007, but it was dismissed after she failed to appear at a hearing a week later, according to court documents.

From Baltimore Sun staff reports

Police identify man, 21, fatally shot in Waverly

Baltimore police have identified a Waverly man who died Wednesday after he was shot outside a home in his neighborhood, two days before his 22nd birthday. About 7 p.m., a gunman approached four men on the porch of the house in the 600 block of McKewin Ave. and shot Mark Vines, said Agent Donny Moses, a police spokesman. Vines was taken by ambulance to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 8:04 p.m.

Liz F. Kay and Richard Irwin

Man fatally shot by police had outstanding warrants

A knife-wielding man fatally shot by city police this week in East Baltimore was being sought on two criminal warrants and had been arrested numerous times in incidents involving a woman who was stabbed that night, police said. Dale Graham, 29, was fatally shot by police about 10:50 p.m. Tuesday after police entered a house in the 800 block of N. Belnord Ave. and found two people in a room bleeding from stab wounds. Graham was standing nearby, armed with a knife, and refused orders to drop the weapon. Police said he made a threatening move toward the officers and was shot at least twice in the upper body. Police spokeswoman Nicole Monroe said yesterday that Graham had gotten into an argument with the mother of his two children. Her brother, who was in the house, became involved. The woman and her brother were stabbed, resulting in injuries that were not considered life-threatening. When police arrived, "the brother immediately complied. He [Graham] did not," Monroe said. Records show Graham was being sought on warrants for second-degree arson and violating a protective order barring him from contacting the woman.

Justin Fenton