South Bend Tribune Report

South Bend Tribune

A man who shot at police and then fled a home as officers attempted to arrest him on a warrant Tuesday morning was killed in a shootout with police when they found him hours later.

In addition to the death of the suspect, police earlier identified as Rodney Ross, 30, a police officer and a St. Joseph County Police dog reportedly were shot in the incident that culminated around 4 p.m. on the northwest side of the city.

Commander Mike Grzegorek of the St. Joseph County Metro Homicide Unit said the officer received a leg injury and was being treated at a local hospital. The officer was released from the hospital Tuesday night, Grezgorek said, but he declined to identify the wounded officer until family had been notified.

A police dog, Luna, also was shot in the incident. The bullet appeared to miss her leg bone, but lodged in her leg. She was transported to North Central Veterinary Emergency Center in Westville, Ind., for further treatment.

Police arrived at the house in the 52000 block of Lilac Road around 11:45 a.m. looking for Ross, who was wanted out of Elkhart County for drug possession and having a firearm without a license.

Officers serving the warrant were shot at and and they returned fire. Ross then fled from the house into nearby woods, St. Joseph County Sheriff Bill Redman said. No officers were injured at that time.

Multiple agencies, including the U.S. Marshals, assisted county police and set up a large perimeter in the area of Cleveland Road, Portage Avenue and Riverside Drive. The Indiana State Police also aided in the search with a helicopter.

Grezgorek said the suspect was found during a search. He said the suspect fired at police before the police returned fire.

Anastasia Guimaraes, who lives in a subdivision off Lilac Road, said she was taking a break while working from home but discovered she couldn’t get out of her subdivision because of heavy police presence early Tuesday afternoon.

“I don’t usually get nervous in general, but because this is literally right next to my neighborhood where I live and sleep at night, it makes you think and hope that whatever the problem is, it is going to get resolved very quickly,” she said.

Craig Rogers, who has lived in the Sandpiper Cove Condominiums subdivision for about a year, said the area is generally very quiet other than an occasional speeder driving by. “This is a little scary,” he said, adding that he planned to stay inside until the incident was resolved.

Grezgorek said several people in the home had been questioned by police, but no one else was in custody in connection with the incident.