An armed and barricaded suspect was shot and killed Tuesday night following a police standoff in Houma, authorities said.

Authorities identified the man as Miguel Nevarez, 36, of Houma.

Houma Police Chief Dana Coleman said the incident was tragic for everyone involved.

"Law enforcement officers did everything possible to diffuse a situation that was spiraling out of control very quickly," Coleman said. "Our hearts go out to the gentlemen’s family as well as the families of the officers involved.”

Police responded around 9 p.m.to a report of shots fired on the 300 block of Polk Street in Houma. Officers learned that a man was randomly firing a weapon, police said. When officers arrived the man barricaded himself in a vehicle.

Law enforcement officers attempted negotiations, but they were unsuccessful, the Sheriff's Office said.

"Law enforcement officers continued negotiation attempts, but the subject stopped talking completely," the Sheriff's Office said in a release early Wednesday morning. "He had stated repeatedly that he wanted law enforcement to kill him. Shortly thereafter, the subject exited the vehicle, armed with a semiautomatic pistol and pointed it at law enforcement."

Coleman said officers were placed in a no-win scenario.

"He exited the vehicle and threatened the officers which resulted in the ending." he said. "You never want to wake up and see something like this take place. It was a no-win situation for all involved."

Because Houma Police and Sheriff’s Office personnel were involved, Coleman and Sheriff Tim Soignet agreed that the investigation be handled by the State Police, authorities said.

State police often handle investigations when local police agencies use deadly force.

Former Terrebonne Councilwoman Arlanda Williams said the incident unfolded across the street from her.

"Mental illness is real, tonight I watched as HPD and TPSO officers were negotiating with my neighbor as he threatened to kill himself and then gunshots were fired," she said. "To all of you who text and called I am OK! My house is blocked with police vehicles but the incident occurred across the street from me. Please keep his wife and children in your prayers."

-- Staff Writer Dan Copp can be reached at 448-7639 or at dan.copp@houmatoday.com. Follow him on Twitter @DanVCopp.