JIM THORPE, CARBON COUNTY (WBRE/WYOU-TV) — UPDATE: A standoff in Jim Thorpe, Carbon County finally ended Monday night after nearly 12 hours. Pennsylvania State Police were on scene since about 8 a.m. Monday.

It ended just before 7 p.m. Monday night. Police say a man barricaded himself inside his home on Lehigh Street.

State police tried multiple tactics like flash bangs and talking through a horn, in order to resolve this incident. It’s unclear if anyone else was inside the house or if the man was armed.

While we are told the situation is over at this hour, Eyewitness News is awaiting more details from officials on the scene.

A report from WFMZ states that the man inside the house was found dead. No details yet on the conditions surrounding his death.

———————————————————————————————————————————————————-

An hours-long standoff is still underway in Carbon County. The standoff began Monday morning in Jim Thorpe on the 600 block of Lehigh Street.

“As far as I know there’s a guy locked up in his house, we don’t know what the quarrel is all about but he’s armed,” said Matthew Smith, a neighbor.

Police tell Eyewitness News that a man barricaded himself in his home.

“I think I know who he is, and boy he’s a really nice guy,” said Brad DeMarco, a neighbor.

State Police initially used a bullhorn in an attempt to contact the man inside the home saying, “Frank Olmstead Jr. of 615 Lehigh Street. Please come out the front door of your residence with your hands in the air walking backwards.”

It is unclear if anyone else is inside, or if the man is armed. State Police’s Special Emergency Response team and Jim Thorpe Borough Police were all on scene.

“I’ve seen the state cops before and I heard it was just one guy in a house. Now I see them guys… Yeah it’s a little scary,” DeMarco said.

Authorities blocked off multiple streets, neighbors were asked to stay inside their homes.

Jim Thorpe High School and Carbon Career & Technical Institution were both on non-intruder lockdowns. Students in both schools were released on time.

No one could believe this would happen on their street.

“Unbelievable! I watch this stuff on TV… It usually doesn’t happen in our hometown,” said Lori Knox, neighbor.

“I didn’t think nothing like this would happen on my block,” Smith told Eyewitness News.

Police are asking anyone in the immediate area to stay inside their homes. We will keep you updated on this story.