CHEYENNE - A Laramie County sheriff's deputy shot and killed a U.S. Air Force sergeant Friday who the sheriff's department says was threatening his wife with a knife.

The incident was the second fatal officer-involved shooting in the state this week. Early Tuesday, two Campbell County sheriff's deputies shot and killed a man in Wright who allegedly pointed a shotgun at one of them, according to the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI).

The Air Force identified the Laramie County shooting victim as Staff Sgt. Justin Adams. He was 27.

The incident began about 1:55 a.m. Friday when two deputies went to 1006 E. Jefferson St. in Cheyenne after receiving a 9-1-1 hang-up call from the home. They encountered a domestic dispute between the airman and his wife, the agency stated in a press release.

The deputies were told that the wife wanted to leave after an argument with her husband.

"As she gathered her personal items, the suspect drew a knife and approached her," according to the agency's account. "Preliminary investigation showed that the suspect was warned several times to drop the knife. A deputy fired one shot at the suspect after he made physical contact with the wife while holding the knife in a threatening manner towards her."

Adams was taken to United Medical Center West and died about 9:50 a.m. Friday, according to the Air Force.

"Our condolences go out to the family and friends of Sgt. Adams," said Col. Evan Hoapili, the 90th Space Wing commander, in a prepared statement. "We are committed to assisting the family members in any way possible through this tragic time."

The sheriff's department asked DCI to investigate the shooting, which is common practice for law enforcement agencies in the state when one of their people is involved in a shooting, according to DCI Deputy Director Kebin Haller.

Neither Haller nor sheriff's Lt. Glen Crumpton would reveal any other details about the shooting while it remains under investigation.

DCI is also investigating the Wright shooting, which ended the life of Forrest J. Wolf, 40.

Campbell County sheriff's deputies found Wolf after a Wright woman reported that he had loaded firearms and planned to harm someone, according to a DCI release.

Deputies stopped him several times, but each time he refused to obey their commands and started driving again. He also brandished multiple guns, according to the DCI.

During the last stop, just after midnight Monday, Wolf allegedly pointed a shotgun at a deputy who was approaching his vehicle, and two deputies shot him, the DCI stated.

Haller said he is unsure how long either investigation will take. When they are completed, they will be submitted to the respective county prosecutors, who will decide whether to file charges against the officers in the cases.