Deputies of the Logan County Sheriff’s Office report a Lakeview man died Tuesday evening following an incident at his home that began as a domestic dispute and lead to four hours of negotiations with authorities, ending with him inflicting a gunshot to his own head.

Timothy D. McGlocklin, 46, of 11016 Elm St., reportedly was transported by Indian Lake EMS to Lima Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 9:50 p.m.

Deputies responded to his residence after receiving a domestic violence report about 3 p.m. from his girlfriend, who had escaped from the home to the Village Pantry gas station, 209 State Route 708, Russells Point.

She also told deputies that McGlocklin had a firearm, and had fired it in the home while threatening her and holding her hostage for about an hour and 45 minutes.

The Hardin County Special Response Team responded to the Elm Street scene as well, and authorities conducted communication with the suspect there via telephone.

The SRT team deployed chemical agents and continued to speak with the suspect, ordering him outside.

Then the SRT team breached the door about 9 p.m. and at that time, team members heard a gunshot. Authorities located the suspect inside and said he had sustained a single, self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head.

He was still breathing at that time, and his medical care was referred to Indian Lake EMS for transport to the hospital.

Deputies said a 40-caliber Taurus handgun with one magazine and one live round was recovered at the scene.

While speaking with his girlfriend at the Village Pantry, she told deputies that she was held at gunpoint by the suspect that and that he allegedly struck her in different areas of her body with a handgun.

McGlocklin also allegedly threatened to kill her first and then kill himself, she said, relating that he was making nonsensical statements throughout their exchange.

At one point, the female victim convinced the suspect to let her go to her car to retrieve some photos. She then was able to leave the residence in her vehicle and contacted a friend, who called the sheriff’s office.

The victim had visible injuries to her ears, head and neck area. Deputies also noticed that her left wrist was in a cast, and she stated that McGlocklin had injured her Oct. 13 by hitting her with a crowbar.

She declined medical treatment Tuesday by Indian Lake EMS, but said she would drive herself to Mary Rutan Hospital.

The investigation continues.