MOSS POINT, Miss. (WLOX) - A longtime justice court judge is being remembered for being a caring soul with a large heart by those who knew and respected her.

Sheila Osgood, 65, was found murdered in her Moss Point home Wednesday morning. Her 45-year-old son Gregory Jackson Jr. was killed by police after he reportedly charged at officers with a weapon just before Osgood’s body was found.

Police are working a shooting in Moss Point Wednesday afternoon. (viewer submitted)

When Osgood didn’t show up for work Wednesday morning, police were asked to do a welfare call. They arrived at her home on Davis Street at 11:30 a.m. but were unable to make contact with anyone inside.

About an hour later, they were called back out to the house after neighbors reported a disturbance. Police say when they arrived the second time at the house, they heard gunshots.

While approaching the entrance to the home, Jackson reportedly charged at officers wielding a large knife. After several commands to stop and drop his weapon, which went ignored, the responding officers reportedly shot him, killing him.

The officers then proceeded into the house, where they found Osgood’s body on the floor. Jackson County Sheriff Mike Ezell told WLOX News Osgood was stabbed to death, and investigators are treating her death as a homicide.

Justice Court District 2 Judge Sheila Osgood died Wednesday after being shot by her 45-year-old son, say police. (Facebook/Sheila Osgood)

The news quickly spread through the community, leaving people stunned and in tears to hear about the tragic death of the well-loved judge.

“You always knew where she stood," said Moss Point Supervisor Melton Harris. "There was no doubt about that. Very vocal individual. She would speak and she would always look to both sides of the story for whatever she was dealing with. She wanted as much information as she possibly could gather and when she would speak, she would speak on the information that she had and not just an emotional one.”

Justice Court Judge Sheila Osgood was found murdered inside her Moss Point home Wednesday morning. (Submitted)

“She wanted to help the community," said former Moss Point Police Chief Calvin Hutchins. "Wherever there was a need, she would reach out and do all she could to help the community. She had a service heart and she would do everything she could to make everybody happy. She was affectionate, always had a smile on her face. Every time I saw her, she was always smiling and she wanted everybody to have that same joy about themselves.”

“You could depend on Sheila," said Rev. Larry G. Hawkins Sr. with Union Baptist Church. "She was a go-getter. If you gave her a task, she got it done and she met no strangers. She saw the best in all people. Just had that kind of quality of a very loving caring person.”

At this time, the incident is under investigation by the Jackson County District Attorney’s Office, Mississippi Bureau of Investigation and the Jackson County Sheriff’s Office.

In accordance with police department policy, the Moss Point officers involved have been placed on administrative leave pending a thorough investigation by an outside agency.

Names of the officers will be withheld until the case is presented to the grand jury.

Two people are dead after Moss Point police responded to a house on Davis Street on Wednesday.

Copyright 2020 WLOX. All rights reserved.