The Chicago Police Department’s oversight agency on Tuesday released several videos that show an officer fatally shooting an apparently armed man in Little Village last October.

Marc Nevarez was shot near 26th and Ridgeway on Oct. 23 after, prosecutors say, he and Saul Zaragoza were involved in another shooting just a few blocks away.

La Voz Sidebar 2023 Lea este artículo en español en La Voz Chicago.

On Tuesday, the Civilian Office of Police Accountability, the agency that investigates use of force by CPD officers, released 19 videos that capture the shooting and its aftermath.

Officers were called to the area around 12:30 p.m. after a ShotSpotter detected gunfire in the area, police said previously.

WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT

In one of the videos released Tuesday, Nevarez can be seen running from the driver’s seat of a Ford Focus that crashed into a utility pole in an alley near 26th and Ridgeway.

A responding officer pulled his police SUV directly behind the Focus as Nevarez — who can be seen holding a gun in his right hand — gets out.

Nevarez can be seen running away from the officer on 26th Street for a few seconds before the officer fires several shots. Nevarez collapses to the pavement and the officer runs over to place him in handcuffs.

Nevarez was shot several times, and blood was already visible on his clothing by the time he was handcuffed. The officer who shot him was soon joined by several other officers who tried to stop the bleeding.

The officer who shot Nevarez, trying to keep him conscious, can be heard saying: “Stay with me, dude. Stay with me. Stay with me. Come on. Breathe, bro.”

Nevarez was taken to Mount Sinai Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Zaragoza, the other man in the Focus with Nevarez, was taken into custody without incident. He was charged with attempted first-degree murder, aggravated battery with a firearm and unlawful use of a firearm by a felon.

Police and prosecutors have said that Nevarez, Zaragoza and another unidentified female were involved in the initial shooting that prompted the police response.

That shooting, which occurred in the 2400 block of South Hamlin, left another man injured with a graze wound to his head, police said.

