The Missouri State Highway Patrol said a homicide suspect was struck and killed by gunfire from the Kansas City Police Department after he opened fire on officers Friday afternoon near Admiral Boulevard and Tracy Avenue.Missouri State Highway Patrol Sgt. Andy Bell said KCPD officers located a suspect wanted in a homicide around 12:30 p.m. Bell said KCPD officers conducted a felony traffic stop and gave multiple commands to the people to get out of the vehicle. Bell said a few of the people in the vehicle complied and exited the vehicle safely, but one person – believed to be the homicide suspect – did not immediately exit the vehicle from the backseat.Bell said KCPD officers saw a handgun and the “suspect opened fire on the police officers, striking one of the patrol cars, where a police officer was standing. Four of officers returned fire striking the suspect."Bell said the suspect was immediately transported to an area hospital and was declared deceased. The highway patrol identified him as Ennice Ross Jr., 26. No KCPD officers were injured in the shooting.KCPD said the officers involved in the event today will be on routine administrative leave, as is normal in a police-involved shooting.

The Missouri State Highway Patrol said a homicide suspect was struck and killed by gunfire from the Kansas City Police Department after he opened fire on officers Friday afternoon near Admiral Boulevard and Tracy Avenue.

Missouri State Highway Patrol Sgt. Andy Bell said KCPD officers located a suspect wanted in a homicide around 12:30 p.m. Bell said KCPD officers conducted a felony traffic stop and gave multiple commands to the people to get out of the vehicle.

Advertisement

Bell said a few of the people in the vehicle complied and exited the vehicle safely, but one person – believed to be the homicide suspect – did not immediately exit the vehicle from the backseat.

Bell said KCPD officers saw a handgun and the “suspect opened fire on the police officers, striking one of the patrol cars, where a police officer was standing. Four of officers returned fire striking the suspect."



Bell said the suspect was immediately transported to an area hospital and was declared deceased. The highway patrol identified him as Ennice Ross Jr., 26.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

With regards to the officer involved shooting earlier today, the deceased has been identified as Ennice Ross Jr., a 26 year old black male from KCMO. The next of kin has been notified.@kcpolice #MSHP — MSHP Troop A (@MSHPTrooperA) October 24, 2020

No KCPD officers were injured in the shooting.

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

KCPD said the officers involved in the event today will be on routine administrative leave, as is normal in a police-involved shooting.

