To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

Estimated read time: 2-3 minutes

This archived news story is available only for your personal, non-commercial use. Information in the story may be outdated or superseded by additional information. Reading or replaying the story in its archived form does not constitute a republication of the story.

HUNTSVILLE, Weber County — A man who investigators believe was high on methamphetamine and distraught over family issues was shot and killed after charging at deputies while pointing a handgun at them.

That's according to video released by the Weber County Attorney's Office, whose investigation team is still reviewing the officer-involved shooting of Cody Jay Hadley, 32, on Oct. 23. On Tuesday, body camera video from the responding Weber County sheriff's deputies and the 911 call placed by a resident were released.

About 10:40 p.m. on that night, a woman called 911 to report that someone had broken into the camping trailer parked in her driveway, and shots were fired.

"We have somebody out in our trailer, he's got a gun," she told emergency dispatchers in a recording of the call.

After a couple minutes, the woman told the dispatcher, "There goes two, two more," referring to shots being fired.

As two deputies arrived at the scene, one grabbed his rifle and positioned himself outside the trailer.

"Sheriff's office, everyone inside the trailer come outside," the deputy is heard calling out on body camera video. "Come out with your hands up."

After a moment of silence and not seeing anything, the deputy sees two feet between the trailer and an RV parked nearby. The deputy can be heard ordering the person to come out from the hiding space with his hands up.

Related:

Man shot, killed in shootout with police in Huntsville A man has died from his injuries after being shot by deputies in Huntsville, authorities say.

As Hadley comes out from between the trailer and and RV, he immediately begins running toward the deputies, raises a handgun and points it at the deputies.

After yelling several times, "Drop the gun!" deputies fired at least seven shots, killing Hadley.

The deputies who fired shots were placed on administrative leave while the investigation takes place under the officer-involved incident protocol. The Weber County Attorney's Office on Tuesday said investigators have learned so far that Hadley was holding a .40-caliber handgun when he was shot — and that he was under the influence of meth and "distraught over family issues" at the time.

Hadley is survived by his wife and three young sons, according to his obituary. On a GoFundMe* page set up to raise money for his children, the author noted that Haldy "missed his dad dearly and struggled with the grief of his loss."

*KSL.com does not assure that the money deposited to the account will be applied for the benefit of the persons named as beneficiaries. If you are considering a deposit to the account, you should consult your own advisers and otherwise proceed at your own risk.

×

Photos

Related stories

Most recent Utah stories

Related topics Utah Politics