This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

The Latest (Monday, Oct. 26):

8:45 p.m.

Citrus Heights Police Lt. Chad Morris says the 64-year-old man who was shot by police has died.

The man died after leaving his home and shooting at an officer, who returned fire, according to Lt. Morris.

Morris says the man was taken into custody before officers and medics rendered medical aid and he died from his wounds.

Morris tells FOX40 the man lived at the Citrus Heights home with his wife but was the only person there at the time.

Detectives will be in the area throughout the night investigating the shootings.

Original story below:

CITRUS HEIGHTS, Calif. (KTXL) — A man barricaded himself inside a Citrus Heights home before being shot by police Monday night.

Citrus Heights police say they were investigating a dispute between the man and his neighbor around 3:30 p.m. near Garry Oak Drive and Twin Oaks Avenue when the man pointed a handgun at officers.

Police officials say at least one officer fired at the man in response.

The man ran inside his home after the shots were fired and refused to leave, according to police.

Citrus Heights police say they set up a perimeter and closed off the roadways in the area, asking nearby residents to shelter in place. The SWAT team and crisis negotiators were called to the scene.

The road and areas will remain closed for several hours. Investigation is ongoing and the scene is stable. There are no outstanding subjects. The barricaded subject fired at officers forcing the officers to shoot him. — Citrus Heights PD (@citrusheightspd) October 27, 2020

Police announced just after 5:30 p.m. that the man left the house out the back door and pointed a weapon at the officers. At least one other officer fired their weapon in response.

Unfortunately the subject pointed a weapon at the officers again, and another officer involved shooting just occurred. The scene is being stabilized and medical is on scene to treat the subject. — Citrus Heights PD (@citrusheightspd) October 27, 2020

Officers said medical personnel are at the scene of the shooting and treating the man.

No officers were injured.

The condition of the man was not yet released.

At 6:14 p.m., police officials announced the barricaded man “fired at officers forcing the officers to shoot him.”

The roadways near Garry Oak Drive and Twin Oaks Avenue will remain closed while the shooting is being investigated.

The road and areas will remain closed for several hours. Investigation is ongoing and the scene is stable. There are no outstanding subjects. The barricaded subject fired at officers forcing the officers to shoot him. — Citrus Heights PD (@citrusheightspd) October 27, 2020

This story is developing. Check back for updates.