A Camarillo man died on Saturday, nearly two weeks after being shot by Ventura County Sheriff’s deputies on Oct. 4

Austin Manzano, 24, died of complications of gunshot wounds of the abdomen, according to the Ventura County Medical Examiner’s Office. His death is considered a homicide.

Sheriff's officials have said Manzano called 911 at 1:10 a.m. and told dispatchers he was armed with a loaded handgun and would begin shooting people in the area unless law enforcement responded, according to the Ventura County Sheriff's Office.

The agency is under contract to provide police services in the city of Camarillo.

Read More:Camarillo man who called 911 threatening to shoot others shot by deputies

The sheriff's office has identified Deputy Robert Medina and Senior Deputy Greg Tougas as being the first responders to arrive on scene of the incident in the area of Calle La Sombra and Bradford Avenue.

Medina and Tougas observed Manzano holding a large knife in his left hand and what was later discovered to be a replica handgun in his right hand, authorities said. The deputies ordered Manzano to drop the weapons, but Manzano refused and approached the two deputies in a threatening manner, authorities said.

Deputies shot Manzano within two minutes of arriving on scene, according to authorities.

The deputies shot Manzano after he pointed the replica handgun in their direction. Paramedics responded to the scene and transported Manzano to a local hospital.

Immediately after the shooting, the two deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave as part of the investigation, according to Capt. Eric Buschow, a spokesman for the sheriff's office.

Both deputies have since returned from leave, Buschow said Tuesday.

Crime news:Ventura County Sheriff's Office releases names of deputies, suspect in Camarillo shooting

Medina has worked at the sheriff's office for 12 years, and Tougas is a 31-year veteran who was most recently assigned to patrol duties in Camarillo, the agency said. Both deputies are trained in crisis intervention techniques, according to the sheriff's office.

Their firearms have been taken as evidence in the investigation, which remains ongoing. The investigation is being conducted by the sheriff's major crimes bureau, professional standards bureau and the Ventura County District Attorney's Office.

Anyone who may have information for investigators can call Sgt. Steve Michalec at 805-384-4737.

Manzano's death is the first fatal deputy-involved shooting since Jan. 12, 2019, when Deputy Noel Juarez was involved in the shooting of Dimas Diaz Jr., 45, of Santa Barbara. Diaz was involved in an hour-long standoff on Highway 101 in Calabasas where he had crashed his vehicle during a pursuit.

The standoff ended when Diaz rushed toward Juarez and California Highway Patrol Officer Brian Green, both of whom shot at Diaz. A report on the shooting by the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office found Juarez and Green acted lawfully in self-defense during the incident.

Staff writer Jeremy Childs contributed to this report.

Joe Curley covers breaking news for the Star. He can be reached at joe.curley@vcstar.com. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @vcsjoecurley.