UPDATE: Police have not yet officially released the identifies of the victims. However, a Salt Lake City area Catholic school is identifying Diana Hawtmeh and her son Joseph Hawtmeh as two of the people killed in a shooting at a Henderson apartment complex Tuesday.

Diana was a substitute teacher at the same middle school where Joseph was a student, according to the post.

The post goes on to say that Diana’s daughter, Yasmeen, is in critical condition after the shooting.

13 Action News’ sister station FOX13 says that the Hawtmeh’s are a pillar in Salt Lake City’s catholic community.

“I would never want this to happen to anyone,” says Mary-Ann Horn, close friend. “This is awful.”

“We will miss her more than words could ever express,” says Natalie Montoya, close friend.

The church says that Mr. Hawtmeh and the family’s oldest son were not involved in the shooting.

ORIGINAL STORY: The Henderson Police Department released further information about a deadly shooting that involved officers and several residents at an apartment complex on Tuesday.

Authorities report they were called to The Douglas at Stonelake apartments, located in the 1400 block of Stonelake Cove Avenue, at about 11 a.m. with reports of gunshots.

4 people dead after shooting in Henderson

Arriving officers say they discovered a 39-year-old and a 33-year-old woman dead at the scene in an apparent shooting, with a 16-year-old girl also suffering a gunshot wound.

The suspected gunman was then located by police armed with a handgun inside a nearby vehicle with a 12-year-old boy held as a hostage.

Henderson police say officers attempted to make contact with the man, later identified as 38-year-old Jason Neo Bourne, but when he held his gun to the boy's head, shots were fired with the situation becoming a shooting involving officers.

The 12-year-old was taken from the car by authorities but passed away due to his injuries, with Bourne also killed.

The 16-year-old girl was expected to survive the shooting, according to Henderson police, with no officers injured.

Crime Reports | 13 Action News

A preliminary investigation revealed that Bourne shot multiple times inside the vehicle with additional details suggesting he resided in the apartment above the two women.

The additional names of those killed will be released by the Clark County coroner's office after family has been notified.

This incident remains under investigation and marks the sixth shooting involving officers in Henderson so far in 2020.