LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WAVE) - The 18-year-old woman who committed suicide as officers tried to serve her an arrest warrant has been identified by the Jefferson County Coroner’s Office Tuesday evening.

De’Airra Hayden of Louisville died due to a single self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to the deputy coroner.

Protesters gathered around a home in the 3600 block of West Jefferson in Shawnee to serve Hayden with an arrest warrant Friday, LMPD Sgt. John Bradley said. It happened just before 3:30 p.m.

LMPD is investigating a fatal shooting in the 3600 block of W Jefferson however, it appears to be self-inflicted. — LMPD (@LMPD) October 23, 2020

Bradley told WAVE 3 News officers serving the warrant Friday they did not fire any shots, and the woman’s fatal injuries are self-inflicted.

The officers were serving the warrant with U.S. Marshals as part of a task force when they heard a gunshot from the back of the home. The woman was found dead in a back room.

“As they knocked and announced their presence a single gunshot was heard from with in the residence. No officers or US Marshall’s [sic] discharged their weapons,” LMPD spokesperson Dwight Mitchell said in a statement. “Shortly thereafter the suspect was found deceased within the residence from a single, self-inflicted gunshot wound.”

In a press conference held at 9 p.m. Friday night, Mitchell said investigations listed the 18-year old, later identified as Hayden, on the arrest warrant connected to the shooting of a Lyft driver in August.

She faced charges of assault to the first degree, meaning having the intent to injure a victim using a deadly weapon.

Protesters who gathered outside the home accused investigators in the area of shooting and killing the woman, and Mitchell said it is because of rumors spread on social media that false information is often shared at a rapid pace.

“We’ve had enough incidents that have happened in our community,” Mitchell said. “Certainly we don’t want any erroneous information to get out. It’s not fair to the people involved and certainly not to the police department.”

Mitchell said by holding this press conference, the department hopes this peels back a layer of transparency.

“Have there been mistakes? Certainly, because no one is perfect. We stand here today, it’s a new day, dawning of a new day. This is one of those aspects that we’re doing. I hope the public understands, which I believe the majority of them do and even those who don’t trust us," Mitchell said. "We’re going to gain that trust again. I’m very confident that we will.”

A further investigation is underway, which is being conducted by the LMPD Public Integrity Unit.

Get the WAVE 3 News app on ROKU, Apple TV and Amazon Fire. (WAVE 3 News)

Copyright 2020 WAVE 3 News. All rights reserved.