The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation was called to investigate after a Cherokee County deputy shot and killed a man who threw a spear at him.

Deputies were called to a home in Cookson, a small town near Lake Tenkiller, after midnight Wednesday, Oct. 14, by a man who said he “needed the police,” Sheriff Jason Chennault said.

“That’s all he would say,” Chennault said, adding that the caller wouldn’t answer subsequent calls from dispatchers.

Two deputies responded, and they encountered a man, later identified as Jericho Wynos, holding a spear outside the home.

Wynos became aggressive with the deputies and raised the spear, refusing their commands to drop it, Chennault said. The sheriff said Wynos then threw the spear, striking one of the deputies, Curtis Elkins, in his hands.

Chennault said Elkins had minor injuries but shot Wynos as he reached for two knives strapped to his body. Wynos was able to arm himself with at least one of the them before he was shot twice in the torso.

Deputies rendered aid, but the 45-year-old was pronounced dead at the scene. They later found a third knife on his body.

Wynos’ mother was inside the home at the time of the shooting, but she was physically unharmed, Chennault said, as no bullets went astray.

Chennault said his agency was familiar with Wynos but that he was unsure what precipitated the episode. Online court records show that Wynos had failed to register as a sex offender at least twice.

“We don’t know what caused this,” Chennault said. “We don’t even know if it was (Wynos) that was calling.”

Elkins, a Cherokee County deputy for two years, is on administrative leave as the shooting is being investigated.

The other deputy at the scene, a law enforcement veteran of more than 20 years, was not placed on leave, Chennault said.

Fatal law enforcement shootings in Oklahoma since 2007

Featured video

Gallery: Tulsa-area pets in need of homes

Pawsitively adorable: Meet 55 adoptable dogs and cats looking for love Bonnie Allan Percy Lou Sunna Coco Believe Carlos Brownie Giana Little Mama Moscato Millie Georgie Tallulah Sativa Sammie Breezy Josie Harold June Lupen Dean Thelma Pink Floyd Sage Mila Buster Diego Dora Sitka Eleanor Jazzy Mr. Heckles Oakley Nila Johnny Samus Lady Boo Thunder Rocco Samson Shelby Gypsy Nash Gizmo Percy Pudge Delilah Markie Bruno Buddy Archie Star Wallace Broken Arrow man credits weight loss to 10,000 miles of dog walks