OAKLAND — The man shot by Oakland police Tuesday evening during a chaotic confrontation with suspected armed robbers died at the scene, authorities said late Wednesday.

He was a 20-year-old Oakland resident. Police did not release his name.

The shooting happened at around 10:15 p.m. Tuesday when officers interrupted an attempted burglary and robbery of a cannabis grow inside a building in the 1400 block of 92nd Avenue, at Holly Street.

The burglary was one of several officers responded to Tuesday evening, as a group police described as a “caravan of armed robbers” robbed or attempted to rob several marijuana businesses, and broke into other cannabis stores and businesses throughout Oakland. About an hour after the police shooting, armed men shot two security guards at about 11:11 p.m. outside a cannabis business in the 8400 block of Baldwin Street, near 85th Avenue.

At 92nd Avenue and Holly Street, uniformed officers tried to detain several people, but some fled on foot or in vehicles, police said. Four officers were injured by fleeing motorists, including three who were hospitalized and later released. Police said one Oakland officer shot the 20-year-old man and he died at the scene.

More than a dozen people were arrested and police recovered nine firearms.

Police first confirmed the death in a statement released nearly 24 hours after the shooting. The department said it is not releasing any other details about the shooting, or identifying the officer involved, because “a complete investigative process requires information to be limited to maintain the integrity of the investigation.”

The Oakland Police Department’s Homicide Division, OPD’s Internal Affairs Division and the Alameda County District Attorney’s office are each conducting investigations.

The death is the 95th homicide investigation by police this year, 88 of which are classified as murders. In all of 2019, Oakland had 78 homicides, 75 of them murders.

“It is important for us to recognize and remember any time there is an officer involved shooting (OIS) in our community, it impacts the families, officers and members of our community,” the police department said in a statement.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Video shows gunman threatening California neighborhood before deadly law enforcement shooting

Video shows gunman threatening California neighborhood before deadly law enforcement shooting Crime and Public Safety | Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California

Video released of fatal deputy shooting of hatchet-wielding man in Southern California Crime and Public Safety | San Francisco police shoot, kill man who they say was approaching officers with apparent firearm

San Francisco police shoot, kill man who they say was approaching officers with apparent firearm Crime and Public Safety | Alameda DA to charge Bay Area prosecutor, her biggest political critic, with interfering in fatal police shooting case

Alameda DA to charge Bay Area prosecutor, her biggest political critic, with interfering in fatal police shooting case Crime and Public Safety | Bodycam footage of Vallejo Police Department shooting released Between 9:15 p.m. Tuesday and 1:30 a.m. Wednesday, police responded to at least 10 calls of break-ins, robberies and shootings, with robbers mostly targeting marijuana businesses in East Oakland.

At the Baldwin Street attempted robbery and shooting, callers reported seeing 50 vehicles and hearing more than 20 gunshots. The two guards wounded are expected to survive.

Witnesses near a cannabis cultivation business in the 200 block of Hegenberger Road told police there were more than 100 people there at about 9:33 p.m. Other witnesses estimated the group to be 50 people, according to police.