A Cheatham County Sheriff's Office deputy fatally shot a man Sunday night marking the second officer-involved shooting in just over 24 hours there, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation reported.

According to the TBI, the shooting took place about 11:15 p.m. at a home in the 1000 block of Pheasant Court in Kingston Springs.

A deputy who responded to a domestic-related call at the home found resident Terry David Fox, 58, on the front porch, armed with a handgun, according to a release from the TBI.

"The deputy gave several commands for Fox to drop his handgun, which Fox did not do," the release reads. It noted that the situation escalated for reasons that were "still under investigation."

At some point during the altercation, the deputy fired his service weapon, striking Fox, who died at the scene.

TBI does not disclose the identities of law enforcement officers "involved in these types of incidents," the agency's release said.

Agents are continuing to investigate this case and the earlier case, reported at about 8:30 p.m. on Saturday in the 2300 block of Petway Road.

Three Cheatham County deputies were involved in that incident, also described as a "domestic-related call."

At least one of the deputies at the scene fired on a man, identified as Michael Gurley.

The reasons for the shooting remain under investigation.

Gurley was hospitalized.

No law enforcement officers were injured in either incident.

Cheatham County Sheriff Mike Breedlove said Monday that the deputies involved in the shootings are currently off duty and have been offered counseling. He said the TBI, District Attorney’s Office and the general public has been very supportive of his department.

"This kind of job seems like it’s getting more and more dangerous every day, and this is a product of it. We have to ensure the emotional well-being of the deputies and officers out here, also, who are in the middle of it," the sheriff said. "The deputies did everything they could concerning both incidents."

Breedlove stressed that both shootings were totally disconnected from each other.

“Given the fact that we’re still going through this pandemic, we know that our domestics have increased because we’re going to more calls, but there’s really no rhyme or reason [why two deadly force encounters happened in a 24-48 hour period]," he said.

Both calls started off as domestic-related issues and both were escalated by the two suspects involved in the altercations with officers, Breedlove explained.

"Unfortunately, one last night did lose his life. And it’s just a sad situation for the family and also for the deputies involved," he added.

"No one goes into this line of work wanting to or expecting to take someone else’s life, but we are trained to deescalate as quickly as we can, and in these particular cases, the two suspects chose to escalate, and they had weapons … domestics are the most dangerous calls any officer can go on in the United States."

Meghan Mangrum and Katie Nixon contributed to this report.

Community News Editor Nicole Young can be reached at 615-306-3570 or nyoung@tennessean.com.

Natalie Neysa Alund is based in Nashville at The Tennessean and covers breaking news across the south for the USA TODAY Network. Reach her at nalund@tennessean.com and follow her on Twitter @nataliealund.