Baltimore police shot and killed a person in an exchange of gunfire that also wounded an officer Monday morning, Commissioner Michael Harrison said.

Harrison said an unidentified suspect was shot multiple times by Baltimore police officers after the man shot an officer in the upper thigh in the city’s Rosemont neighborhood.

Advertisement

Members of the department’s Warrant Apprehension Task Force were in an unmarked vehicle doing surveillance as part of a domestic violence investigation at the intersection of North Ellamont Street and Westwood Avenue around 9:41 a.m. when the shooting occurred, the commissioner said.

Police say the shooting suspect pulled up at the intersection in a vehicle around that time, got out and fired into the officers' vehicle, striking one unnamed officer in the upper thigh.

Advertisement

Expand Autoplay Image 1 of 12 Investigators look at several bullet holes in the windows of a vehicle in a police-involved shooting in the Rosemont neighborhood. Officers with the Warrant Apprehension Task Force were in the unmarked vehicle doing surveillance as part of a domestic violence investigation at the intersection of N. Ellamont St. and Westwood Avenue around 9:41 a.m. when an unidentified suspect fired into the officers' vehicle, striking one unnamed officer in the thigh. Officers returned fire, killing the suspect. Nov. 9, 2020 (Amy Davis)

Harrison said the investigating officers returned fire, striking the suspect several times, and he later was pronounced dead after officers rendered aid at the scene. The officer and the suspect were taken to the University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center.

Police have not identified the shooting suspect or the officers involved. They have not said how many officers were part of the investigation, how many fired their weapons or how many shots were fired.

The fatal shooting was the third this year involving city police officers, following incidents in February and March. There have been two other shootings by police that were non-fatal.

The department performs “after-action” reviews on officer-involved shootings within 30 days as part of a recent policy revision by Harrison.

Harrison said the injured officer is in good condition at Shock Trauma and is currently being treated for his injuries.

Police say the suspect’s firearm was recovered at the scene.

In a statement, Council President and Mayor-Elect Brandon Scott wrote that his thoughts and prayers are with both the officer and the suspect’s family, adding that “despite the complexities, they are still a family that will have to deal with the trauma and the loss of their loved one.”

Breaking News Alerts As it happens Be informed of breaking news as it happens and notified about other don't-miss content with our free news alerts. By submitting your email to receive this newsletter, you agree to our Subscriber Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy >

“We know that there is a violence problem in Baltimore," Scott wrote. “We will not allow people to continue to cause mayhem and destruction in our city without being held accountable.”

Advertisement

Earlier, the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 3, the union which represents rank-and-file officers, wrote on Twitter shortly after 11 a.m. that an officer from the Southwest District “was shot in the upper leg and is in stable condition.”

“His injury is not life-threatening and the prognosis is good,” the union wrote. Earlier, the organization said representatives were on their way to Shock Trauma to respond to reports of an injured officer.

President Mancuso reports that our injured Officer was shot in the upper leg and is in stable condition. His injury is not life-threatening and the prognosis is good. — Baltimore City FOP (@FOP3) November 9, 2020

Officers had set up a crime scene at the intersection of West North Avenue and Bloomingdale Road by around 10:30 a.m. The area has a number of businesses and establishments, including the Walbrook Branch of the city’s Enoch Pratt Public Library nearby.

Near the scene, one woman told The Baltimore Sun that she was leaving her house to go to work when the shots rang out, causing her to run back inside for safety. Another man said he was teaching an English class over Zoom, and that he muted his camera until the commotion ended. They declined to give their names for fear of retaliation.

One man who declined to give his name said he was upset at the large police response the incident spurred, with officers surrounding the scene Monday morning.

“There’s trauma around here every single day,” the man said.