Jimmy Simms

The Cullman Times

Published on: 11-05-2003

Peoples Bank head teller Becky Corley immediately recognized the man standing at her counter Tuesday afternoon from his photo on the poster naming him as a fugitive on the U.S. Postal Inspection Service's Most Wanted List.

Little did Corley realize that less than a half-hour later, the man identified as Carl Edward Fuerst, 37, of Torrance, Calif., would lie dead in his van in the West Point community at the end of a high-speed chase and shootout with local law enforce ment.

While the wanted poster identified the suspect as Fuerst, Cullman Police Chief Kenny Culpepper said he could not confirm that.

"We're still trying to determine for certain who the subject is. But it is our assumption that this is the person bank personnel identified as Carl Edward Fuerst," Culpepper said.

Corley said she's convinced it's the sa me man who has been wanted by the Postal Inspection Service on charges of theft or receipt of mail matter and obstruction of correspondence.

"As soon as I entered the teller are a and came around the corner I saw him standing there and recognized who he was from his poster," Corley said. "The other teller, who is fairly new, was busy with another customer, and the only thing I thought about was making certain I was the one who waited on him because I wanted to ask for his identification."

Corley said the subject filled out a counter deposit slip requesting cash back.

"I ran a check on the account number and it was a good account. I then asked for his driver's license and he told me he didn't have it with him. He then told me to go ahead and deposit the entire cashier's check. After I did that I handed him his receipt and he turned to leave."

As the man walked out of the Bank, Corley said she went over and tore the wanted poster off the wall. She handed it to Bank President Robin Cummings, who had also recognized the man as Fuerst. "You know, I really didn't get scared at the ti me, but I got a little shaky after it was over," Corley said. "It states clearly on the wanted poster that Fuerst should be considered armed and dangerous, but I didn't think anything about him having a gun or anything like that. Later, when I heard that he had wrecked while being pursued by police and had died, I couldn't help but think, how sad for someone as young as he was to mess up his life like that."

$1.5 million stolen

Cummings recalled how Fuerst had visited six area Peoples Bank branches in Nov. 2001, and by using counterfeit cashier's checks, ripped the bank off for several thousand dollars.

"It is believed that Fuerst would break into post office boxes and steal checks. He would then create his own cashier's checks using the account numbers of custo mers in good standing. He would then go to those particular banks and branches and do what we call a split deposit, where a part of the deposit goes into the account and the remainder is given to the customer as cash," Cummings said. "He has reportedly been doing this type of thing for the past six years and during that time has bilked banks throughout the Southeast out of more than $1.5 million."

Cummings said Fuerst was ap parently attempting to pull that same scam Tuesday, which was surprising.

"I couldn't believe that he was trying to pull this on us again," Cummings said. "I already suspected who he was. Then when Becky handed me the poster I knew it was him. She's our head teller and she did an outstanding job of maintaining her composure and handling the situation correctly."

Instead of calling the police from his office, Cummings decided to follow the subject, who had parked his vehicle, described as a brown van with Texas license plates, at the Regions Bank Automated Teller Machine up the street.

As he followed the subject back through town and then east on Alabama Highway 278, Cummings called 911.

Cullman patrolman Chris Nichols was the first to respond and stopped the vehicle just as it turned onto Alabama Highway 69 East. Cummings said he stopped long enough to give the wanted poster he had to the officer.

"I didn't want to agitate the situation, so I left," Cummings said. "Later, when I heard that the suspect had traded shots with police I was wishing I had read that part of the poster that said consider Fuerst to be ar med and dangerous."

Shots exchanged

According to Police Chief Kenny Culpepper, as Nichols approached the vehicle, the subject brandished a handgun, caliber unknown, and pointed it in Nichols' direction. He im mediately backed away and the van sped away heading east on Highway 69.

Nichols was soon joined in the pursuit by a number of city, as well as county sheriff's depart ment patrol units.

At one point, Fuerst spun his vehicle around and headed back toward Cullman, exiting onto Alabama Highway 157 North.

It was around this time when the suspect first fired on officers.

"We received reports from officers involved in the chase that the subject was firing on them. They in turn returned fire. In all, we had four vehicles damaged as a result of gunfire," Culpepper said. "Fortunately no officers were seriously injured. Officer Brannon Hammick's windshield was struck by gunfire and either a piece of glass or a bullet frag ment creased his head. It wasn't serious, however."

As the chase proceeded north on Highway 157, city and county units attempted a road block at the U.S. Highway 31 intersection. The fugitive, however, was able to jump an island between patrol cars and continued in the direction of the interstate.

Again shots were exchanged. A round fired by the suspect went through the front windshield of Officer Scott Pattillo's patrol car and exited out the back window.

"It was a very dangerous situation," Culpepper said. "It's just a miracle that so me innocent bystander wasn't hurt."

Crash ends chase

With as many as 20 city, county, and State Trooper patrol units in pursuit, in addition to the city's police helicopter, the chase ended with the subject's vehicle leaving the roadway and crashing into a ravine about one mile north of the West Point traffic light on Highway 157.

As officers converged on the vehicle at 2:10 p.m., roughly 16 minutes after the chase began, the suspect was found dead inside.

As of Tuesday evening it had not been determined whether Fuerst died as a result of the accident or whether he died in an exchange of gunfire with police.

Because of the city and county's involve ment, the Alabama Bureau of Investigation has been called in to conduct the investigation.

State Trooper Paul Mashburn from the Public Information Office arrived in Cullman Tuesday evening. He will oversee the ABI's investigation.

Once the ABI concludes its investigation, a report will be filed with the Cullman County District Attorney's Office.

Frankie Glynn contributed to this report.