OCEANSIDE -- The name of a man shot to death by Oceanside policeNov. 6 after he allegedly refused to drop a shovel has beenreleased by authorities.

Jody Handal, 28, died of gunshot wounds to the torso, a medicalexaminer’s investigator said Thursday. Toxicology test results willnot be available for at least 90 days, the investigator said.

Handal, who was a parolee, had recently graduated from Vista’sChoices drug recovery program but admitted to his family that hehad suffered a relapse and planned to return to the program, afamily member said.

Advertisement

Nancy Ebert, who lives on Capistrano Drive, said Handal wasvisiting her older daughter at the house in the morning. He askedher daughter if he could paint his car in their driveway and shesaid that would be fine, Ebert said.

Then Handal left with a man for a short while and returned laterafter the older sister had left, Ebert said. He knocked on the doorbut her younger daughter would not let him in because she was homealone, she said.

That apparently sent him into a rage, said Ebert, who wasreturning home about that time.

“I see this naked man come out the back with a baseball bat,”she said. He was smashing windows and so she turned her car aroundand went to a neighbor’s house down the street for help to get herdaughter out of the home.

Ebert’s daughter thought he was stabbing their pregnant Chow dogand called police. The dog was not hurt.

Sgt. Richard Browning arrived at the scene and saw the manbreaking out vehicle windows with a baseball bat and shovel andordered him to drop the weapons, Lt. Sheila Potkonjak said. Whenthe man refused to stop, Browning tried to knock him down with hispatrol car but Handal apparently got back up with the shovel stillin his hand, she said.

Handal allegedly headed toward two officers, Sean Marchand andLindsay Simmons, holding the shovel like a baseball bat and theyfired a total of six rounds, Potkonjak said. Handal died at thescene.

Contact staff writer Yvette Urrea at (760) 901-4076 oryurrea@nctimes.com.