Mourners release balloons into the sky Thursday in Mount Hope during a vigil for three teens who were killed in a crash Tuesday night.

Dashaun Heard’s mother sobbed Thursday night as family and friends tried to comfort her on the same Mount Hope street corner where her 15-year-old son and two other boys died in a crash two nights earlier.

Daniel Montaño, 17, and Vincent Crespo, 14, were also killed in the late Tuesday night crash, according to the county Medical Examiner’s Office.

Family and friends gathered for a vigil Thursday at Market and Raven streets, where they made a memorial out of candles, flowers, cards and baseball hats at the base of the tree where the crash occurred.

Advertisement

Montaño’s 15-year-old brother was seriously injured in the wreck, but expected to survive, though family members wrote on a fundraising page that he was in an intensive care unit after doctors amputated one of his legs.

People on Thursday placed candles, flowers and balloons at the base of a tree in Mount Hope that was the site of a Tuesday crash that killed three teens. (Kristian Carreon/For The San Diego Union-Tribune)

Friends said Heard lived in Eastlake and the other boys also lived in the Chula Vista area.

Friends described Heard as funny, soft spoken and respectful. He was the fourth of his mother’s seven children.

Cristian Guzman, a friend of all four boys involved in the crash, described Montaño as smart, a musician with lyrical flair who “knew what to do with his words.” Guzman said Crespo was always the eager one, pushing the group of friends to go to the beach, the park or to play basketball.

Guzman said a few minutes before the crash, he, the victims and others were hanging out at Grant Hill Neighborhood Park.

“Right before they left I said, ‘Hey, you guys are my brothers, don’t forget that. Stay safe,’” Guzman remembered Thursday, adding that he exchanged hugs and “I love you” with each teen.

“Five minutes later, that’s when it happened,” Guzman said.

According to police, the silver 2003 Honda Pilot the four teens were in was reported stolen earlier in the day in Chula Vista. Guzman and two friends of Heard’s mother said the SUV belonged to a grandmother of at least one of the victims — either the Montaño brothers or Crespo — and was taken without permission.

“They were teenage boys — it’s like a rite of passage for kids, they do mischievous stuff like that,” Denise Johnson, a friend of Heard’s mother, said. “It was one night of them saying, ‘Let’s joyride this car.’”

A patrol officer spotted the Pilot driving without its headlights in Sherman Heights, near 24th Street and Island Avenue, just blocks from where Guzman said the boys had been hanging out. The officer ran the plates, learned it was reported stolen from Chula Vista and tried to pull it over just after 11 p.m.

The driver sped away east on Market Street, according to police. The officer trailing the SUV lost sight of it, but a Police Department helicopter tracked it from above as it reached speeds of more than 100 mph before slamming into a light pole and the tree.

None of the victims were wearing their seat belts, Lt. Shawn Takeuchi said. Two of the boys were thrown from the SUV. All three died at the scene.

Family members set up GoFundMe pages to help cover funeral costs for Heard and Crespo, and funeral and medical costs for the Montaño brothers.

Pastor Lou Wilburn did not know the victims or their families prior to this week, but was asked to attend Thursday night’s vigil, where he shared a message of hope. The Gateway Christian Fellowship Church pastor told those gathered that while the victims were “taken too soon” by human standards, it was all part of God’s plan.

Though the pastor did not say so during the vigil, he was uniquely suited to comfort the grieving families, having experienced a nearly identical tragedy as a teen in Chicago. He told the Union-Tribune three of his cousins — ages 17, 16 and 15 — died in a car crash, and the fourth lost his foot in the crash.

Pastor Lou Wilburn of Gateway Christian Fellowship Church speaks Thursday in Mount Hope during a vigil for three teenagers killed in a Tuesday night crash. (Kristian Carreon/For The San Diego Union-Tribune)

To the young friends of the Mount Hope victims, he admonished them to love each other enough to speak up when a friend is making a bad decision.

“Because that’s what happened,” Wilburn said. “These guys got in the car, they were joyriding, and nobody had the sense to say, ‘Hey man, this is not right, let’s not do this.’”

The pastor said the incident was not an indictment of the parents.

“When I was a kid, I did stupid stuff, too,” Wilburn said. “Foolishness is in the hearts of kids.”