A man identified as 31-year-old Cody Amman has died following an officer involved shooting early Friday evening.

Amman is believed to have shot at a police officer on Boxelder Road near the Chara Hills subdivision around 4:30 p.m. on Nov. 13, according to a statement from the Gillette Police Department (GPD).

The officer returned fire, and Amman was struck in the exchange. He was transported to Campbell County Health with unspecified injuries, the statement said.

The man has since died, confirmed Louey Williams, a supervisor with the Wyoming Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI), which has since taken over the investigation.

An autopsy of Amman was completed Monday morning, Nov. 16, said Campbell County Coroner Paul Wallem.

Amman was shot twice in the upper body with the fatal bullet puncturing his left lung, Wallem continued.

Authorities have declined to release the identity of the officer involved in the shooting.

The officer, who was uninjured, has been placed on administrative leave pending the results of the investigation, according to GPD Lt. Brent Wasson.

The alleged incident began with a 911 call to the Campbell County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO) earlier that day, where a 27-year-old woman reported hearing gunshots on East Second Street, outside of city limits, according to CCSO Undersheriff Quentin Reynolds.

By the time deputies arrived, Reynolds said, the suspect had already fled the scene in a Nissan Acura and the case was taken over by GPD.

The Nissan was located by the GPD officer, who proceeded to follow the vehicle onto Boxelder Road while waiting for backup to arrive, according to the statement from police.

For reasons unknown, Amman then stopped the vehicle abruptly and allegedly began shooting at the officer.

The Campbell County Attorney’s Office, CCSO, GPD, and Wyoming DCI have all declined to comment further on the ongoing investigation.

This story has been updated to include the name of the suspect and the nature of his injuries- County 17