UPDATE: The Montana Attorney General's Office has released new details and identified the man killed in a shooting with a Montana Highway Patrol trooper Friday evening.

The attorney general's office says about 6:30 p.m. on Friday, Nov. 13., Stillwater County dispatch received a report of a person throwing "flaming objects" from a car window on I-90 near mile marker 422. Multiple brush fires were reported along I-90 in the area. The attorney general's office says after a Columbus police officer, Stillwater County deputy, and a Montana Highway Patrol trooper found the suspected vehicle traveling westbound on I-90, the driver sped up beyond the speed limit but eventually stopped near mile marker 403.

During the stop, the driver allegedly refused to cooperate, leading to a confrontation and the trooper discharging a round from a department-issued shotgun. The suspect died at the scene. No officers were injured in the incident.

The suspect has been identified as 38-year-old Charles Craig Meeks of Pinedale, Wyoming.

Agents with the Montana Department of Justice’s Division of Criminal Investigation (DCI) are investigating. Per standard procedure, the law enforcement officers involved in the incident are on administrative leave during the investigation.

The AG's office says once the investigation is complete, DCI will give the case file to the Stillwater County Attorney’s Office for review. The county attorney and coroner will schedule an inquest pursuant to state law.

Previous coverage

COLUMBUS, Mont. - A man is dead after a shooting involving a Montana Highway Patrol trooper Friday evening.

MHP says the shooting happened about 6:50 p.m. on I-90 in Stillwater County. The trooper was not injured in the incident, and there is no threat to the public, according to law enforcement.

The Montana Department of Transportation's road report map shows westbound traffic on I-90 west of Columbus is closed at this time.

MHP says the Stillwater County Sheriff's Office has requested the assistance of the Montana Division of Criminal Investigation to investigate the incident.

This story will be updated as information becomes available.