EVANSVILLE, Ind. — A 20-year-old man taken into police custody after a violent incident at a Loft Cove Road residence Saturday has died at an Evansville hospital.

Evan Terhune died shortly before 3 p.m. Tuesday at Deaconess Midtown hospital, said Vanderburgh County Coroner Steve Lockyear. He said an autopsy is pending.

Police said Terhune reportedly became violent at a gathering Saturday in the 1100 block of Loft Cove Road where those in attendance told police the hallucinogenic drug LSD was used.

Evansville Police Department spokesman Sgt. Nick Winsett said an officer had to use a Taser to subdue Terhune but no other force was used.

More:COVID: 3 reasons things could soon get worse in Indiana and Evansville

"The only use of force on him was the Taser, and it was effective. Officers were able to get handcuffs on him and get him into the police wagon," Winsett said. "Obviously he was on something very, very powerful. There is a large dent in the side of a patrol car where he rammed his head."

More:Evansville Police: Teen 'unlikely to survive' injuries after Tuesday night shooting

More:COVID-19 update: 115 new cases, 1 new death in Vanderburgh County; state reports 60 deaths

Video shared by police Monday showed Terhune was agitated and slamming himself against the walls of the police wagon for at least 17 minutes after being taken into custody. During that time, he was being driven to a hospital.

"We've replayed this probably a thousand times talking about 'what could we have done differently.' There are just so many variables," Winsett said. "He was just out of control."

In the video, at first, Terhune is sitting docile and quiet, head down, hands cuffed behind his back and a spit mask over his head. Suddenly, he pushes his legs out in front of him and begins thrashing on the floor, before standing up and slamming his body and head into the walls screaming.

He then rests, panting, on the bench seat along the police wagon wall before falling onto the floor, rising up and repeating his thrashing about the van's interior. It's a scene that repeated throughout the ride to the hospital, with Terhune slamming around screaming, slumping over panting and then becoming agitated again.

On arrival at the hospital, Terhune can be seen laying on the floor and not speaking, although he is heard breathing. When he doesn't respond to an officer calling his name, the officer can be seen pulling him by a leg toward the door where he is quickly placed in a wheelchair.

Winsett said the police wagon is not equipped with restraints. "Whether we get some as a result of this, I don't know," he said.

However, Winsett said even if there had been a way to secure Terhune to the seat, he still could have banged his head on the wall unless there was also a head restraint. Winsett said he did not know if ambulance personnel could have given him a sedative if allowed, or if there are different liabilities associated with that.

Only one officer, a driver, is assigned to the police wagon, Winsett said.

"Had the driver not heard any sounds from back there anymore, he probably would have wondered if everything was all right and pulled over," he said.

As it was, Terhune appeared to have continued his violently agitated state during most of the ride, Winsett said.

Since enacting protocols for the COVID-19 pandemic, Winsett said the police department has used the police wagon to transport all prisoners. Typically, however, he said it is used for people who are too belligerent to be driven in the back of patrol car safely but the department has never experienced anything like Terhune's situation before.

"It's just unfathomable to us," he said. "It's a bad deal all the way around. The only people ever transported in it are those who are out of control, but never like this."

Evansville Police Sgt. Jeff Kingery said Saturday night the incident began after the people at the residence started doing LSD. During the same incident, another person was shot by a third person who was apparently acting in self-defense against Terhune, Winsett said.

"They were all friends, and they were hanging out and doing acid together," Kingery said. "They all started tripping. At some point, a gun came out, and somebody got shot in the leg."

Later after detectives arrived and spoke to everyone involved, it was determined that at some point in the gathering Terhune became belligerent, attacking the victim, striking him several times.

The victim and other people at the home feared for their lives, Winsett said.

Others at the residence were eventually able to get Terhune outside of the apartment, locked the door and called the police, Winsett said. However, Terhune kept trying to open the door to get back inside.

While one of the responding officers ran back to his patrol car to get medical supplies for the shooting victim, he was confronted by Terhune who was acting erratically, according to police. Terhune then attacked the officer, punching him in the face, police said.

The officer was able to deploy his Taser which subdued Terhune long enough so other arriving officers could place him into custody, Winsett said. After being placed in custody, the Terhune continued to act erratically and was eventually transported to the hospital for treatment, where he later died.

During the investigation, officers also found that Terhune had kicked one of the patrol cars causing damage to the drivers side door and the front quarter panel of the vehicle, according to a police report.

Winsett said the shooting victim did not wish to file charges against the person who accidently shot him in the leg. He is expected to survive his injuries.