Editor's note: This story has been updated to clarify that Merrillville police said they determined their pursuit was terminated after a review of body camera footage.

GARY — A Rensselaer man who was working on a renovation project at Indiana University Northwest was killed Monday in a crash on campus believed to be caused by a person driving erratically while fleeing Merrillville police after they responded to a call for a trespassing, officials said.

The Lake County coroner said Jacob Moore, 29, died at the scene of blunt force trauma. His manner of death still is pending, the coroner's office said.

Moore was a private contractor from Pangere Corp., which was involved in a restroom renovation project in Marram Hall, IUN Chancellor Ken Iwama said.

IUPD-Northwest police responded to the crash about 6 a.m. Monday to the intersection of East 34th Avenue and Broadway.

University officials said early Monday that roads and some areas close to Marram and Hawthorn halls may be closed during an investigation. The area was cleared about 10 p.m., university police said.

Lake County Sheriff's Department Traffic Crash Investigation and CSI units assisted with the investigation. The crash involved two vehicles, a sheriff's department police report shows.

The driver suspected of causing the crash fled from Merrillville police while they were responding to a trespassing report at 5:50 a.m. in the 6700 block of Broadway, Merrillville Assistant Police Chief Kosta Nuses said.

Officers tried to speak with the driver after a complainant pointed him out, prompting the driver to flee onto Broadway, where he narrowly avoided crashing into another vehicle.

Police continuously tried to stop the driver, but he continued to speed away while driving recklessly, at one point crossing through a grassed area and steering the wrong direction on the road.

A review of body camera footage showed "officers terminated the pursuit somewhere between 45th Avenue to 43rd Avenue on Broadway," according to a Merrillville police news release.

Merrillville police were not pursuing the vehicle when it went off the road, causing a fatal crash, Nuses said.

"We didn't want to risk anyone getting hurt," Nuses said.

Nuses said police will pursue charges against the driver related to the pursuit.

"It's a very sad incident," he said.

Iwama said in a written statement, "Please join me in extending your deepest condolences to the private contractor’s family and their Pangere colleagues."

University police Lt. Brian Ray declined to comment on the specifics of the crash that led to Moore's death, but added that there is an open criminal investigation into the matter.

Police will release more information as the investigation develops, Ray said.

Check nwi.com for updates to this story.