UPDATE 12/07/20 4:20 p.m.: The Clark County Coroner identified Elio Saucedo, 40, as the victim shot and killed at a car wash on Nov. 17. His death was ruled a homicide, caused by multiple gunshot wounds.

UPDATE 11/22/20 3:15 p.m.: The Clark County Coroner identified Thomas Bermudez, 44, as the suspect in a car wash shooting who was found dead on Nov. 20. His death was ruled a suicide, caused by a gunshot wound of the head.

UPDATE 11/21/20 3:00 p.m.: Metro Police say the suspect involved in the deadly shooting earlier this week at a car wash has been found dead.

On Friday, police responded to a residence in the 4800 block of Sacks Drive, near Boulder Highway and Tropicana Avenue, after receiving reports of the suspect being inside the residence.

Detectives set up a perimeter and called to the suspect over a PA system for him to surrender.

A resident came out of the home, and reported to police he heard a loud sound prior to coming outside. Detectives entered the home and found the suspect dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The Clark County Coroner’s Office will released the suspect’s identity at a later date.

LAS VEGAS (KLAS) — A Hispanic man in his early 40s was shot and killed Tuesday afternoon at a car wash in the west valley. The incident occurred at the GO Car Wash around 2 p.m. in the 5500 block of West Charleston.

The victim sustained multiple gunshot wounds and was transported to UMC, where he later died.

According to Metro Lt. Ray Spencer, the man was at the car wash with his wife vacuuming his vehicle. He entered the car and was sitting in the driver’s seat when a white sedan pulled up next to them.

A person or persons fired multiple shots into the car, striking and killing the victim. The vehicle then fled the scene at a high rate of speed.

The victim’s wife was not harmed.

Spencer says there were around a dozen witnesses at the car wash, and detectives are canvassing for surveillance video.

On the scene of a Homicide at what looks like GO Car Wash off of Charleston Blvd. More details at 4pm on @8NewsNow #8NN Road is currently blocked off. pic.twitter.com/4FrBkOfjAy — Madison Kimbro (@MADKIMBRO) November 17, 2020

At this time, police believe there is a connection between the suspect and victim and that the incident was not random.

The Clark County Coroner will release the victim’s identification, as well as cause and manner of death, at a later time.

Spencer urges anyone who may have been at the car wash and seen something to contact Crime Stoppers at 702-385-5555 or Metro’s homicide section at homicide@lvmpd.com.

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.