EVANSVILLE, Ind. (WFIE) - An officer-involved shooting investigation is underway.

It happened shortly before 1 p.m. Friday in the area of Stringtown Road and Reis Avenue in Evansville.

Police say as part of a joint task force, deputies and officers were trying to serve a federal warrant for narcotics dealing to a known violent felon.

They say the suspect sped off in a car north on Stringtown, before hitting a sheriff deputy’s car, and then a telephone pole.

Authorities say they moved in on the car and removed a woman, who was a passenger.

They say they suspect first waved a machete before picking up a gun and firing several shots in their direction.

Officers returned fired, killing the suspect.

On Saturday, the coroner identified the man as Peter Russell, 43, of Evansville and Princeton.

Authorities say procedures were followed, and the investigation continues.

14 News spoke to one neighbor who took a video of the scene on her phone.

”Well I was in the house, and I heard the wreck first,” neighbor Mark Gibson said. “And then after the wreck, I heard a lot of gunshots. It was two different kinds of gunshots.”

The EPD officers involved were undercover and did not have body cams. Vanderburgh County Sheriff deputies may have some footage of the incident.

The deputy who was hit during the crash has only minor injuries.

No other injuries were reported from the stray bullets fired by the suspect.

In the cell phone video that a bystander captured, you can see as the gunshots went off a sheriff’s deputy K9 bit its handler.

Sheriff Wedding says the dog was in a state of confusion.

”The deputy actually stumbled trying to get away from the gunfire and when he did, he fell to the ground and yanked the dog,” added Sheriff Wedding. “Really pulled the dog hard. In this particular case, the dog was put into sensory overload because of the collision, the shooting, the deputy falling down yanking on the leash; the dog was really in a state of confusion. It was kind of nipping because he didn’t know what else to do and he probably didn’t know that was even his handler.”

The woman who was with the suspect was interviewed Friday.

Suspect dead after officer-involved shooting in Evansville

Copyright 2020 WFIE. All rights reserved.