A police shooting of a man during a traffic stop in Portland on Sunday will be the first test of a new protocol for state troopers — not Louisville officers — to investigate what happened.

And details remained elusive Monday evening.

The man was shot at approximately 10:30 p.m. during a traffic stop at 21st and Gilligan streets after the vehicle in which he was riding was reported stolen, LMPD interim Chief Yvette Gentry said during a 1 a.m. press conference at department headquarters.

Brian Allen Thurman, 49, who was white, was taken to University of Louisville Hospital, where he died at 11:05 p.m., according to the Jefferson County Coroner's Office. An LMPD officer was also briefly hospitalized for unrelated injuries before being released, according to department spokesman Matt Sanders.

A woman who was in the passenger seat of the vehicle fled the scene, and police are looking for her, Sanders added. No details about her identity or status as a possible threat to the public have been released.

Gentry did not say why the officer fired his weapon but said body camera footage is available. That footage had not been made public as of Monday evening.

Background:Kentucky State Police will investigate future LMPD shootings

Sgt. William Gregory, a spokesman for Kentucky State Police, said the video would not be released "until vital witnesses can be interviewed and pertinent facts gathered."

"Generally, this can be done within 72 hours unless the complexity of the investigation requires more time," he continued.

State police will follow the agency's "standards of procedures while handling the investigation," Gregory said.

In a statement Monday night, Gentry said she has trust in KSP to conduct a "thorough, fair, and impartial investigation." She did not put a timetable on when she expected the video to be made public.

"LMPD practice has been to release body worn video footage of such incidents within 24 hours in an effort to be as transparent as possible," Gentry said. "However, KSP has determined that logistics and variances in practices have made that unrealistic in this case. We defer to KSP on the specific timing in this case, and we will be evaluating how this works going forward."

Jean Porter, spokeswoman for Mayor Greg Fischer, released the same statement Monday night on behalf of the mayor's office.

Sunday's incident marks the first time state police will investigate a fatal shooting involving Louisville police since plans were introduced this summer for KSP to lead those investigations. Those probes had previously been handled by LMPD's Public Integrity Unit.

Both KSP and LMPD did not respond to questions as to whether the two agencies have a memorandum of understanding in place regarding transparency in police shooting investigations. In August, city officials told The Courier Journal the two sides were still working to reach an agreement.

For subscribers:Louisville police are leaving in record numbers

That plan came after the death of David McAtee, who was shot and killed in June as police and Kentucky National Guard members responded to a crowd outside his barbecue stand following citywide protests over Breonna Taylor's death. Taylor, an unarmed Black woman, was shot by police during a failed drug raid at her apartment on March 13.

Police Chief Steve Conrad was fired after McAtee's death when it was revealed the LMPD officers who fired their weapons outside his stand at 26th and Broadway were not wearing active body cameras. (It was later determined that a National Guard member fired the fatal round.)

Louisville police were also criticized for the time it took to investigate the Taylor shooting. The department's Public Integrity Unit turned over the bulk of its investigation to Kentucky Attorney General Daniel Cameron’s office on May 20, according to the city. He didn't acknowledge that he had the majority of the case file until about a month later.

No officers have been charged in Taylor's shooting, although now-fired Detective Brett Hankison has been charged with three counts of wanton endangerment for firing into an apartment next to Taylor's.

It's been a violent year in Louisville, with 145 criminal homicides and more than 540 nonfatal shootings, according to police data. That homicide total has shattered the city's previous record of 117 criminal homicides set in 2016.

A separate homicide, believed to be unrelated to the traffic stop, was reported early Monday morning and claimed the life of Travis Nagdy, a well-known Louisville protest organizer.

Top headlines:Breonna Taylor protest leader, 21, killed in shooting

Correction: A previous version of this story misidentified KSP spokesman Sgt. William Gregory.

Emma Austin: eaustin@gannett.com; Twitter: @emmacaustin. Lucas Aulbach: laulbach@courier-journal.com; 502-582-4649; Twitter: @LucasAulbach.