Staff report

San Angelo Standard-Times

SAN ANGELO — San Angelo Police were involved in a shooting early Sunday, the third incident this year in which a suspect was fatally shot by local law enforcement.

About 12:25 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 29, 2020 officers responded to a domestic disturbance in the 2100 block of Raney Street after a juvenile caller told dispatchers a man was punching a woman.

When officers arrived they found the man and woman and an altercation ensued, during which the man displayed a knife, a San Angelo Police Department news release stated.

Earlier this year:Police identify San Angelo man killed in officer-involved shooting

"Officers utilized less lethal devices, but these were unsuccessful. The male suspect refused commands and approached officers, at which time an officer utilized deadly force and shot the male suspect," the news release stated.

Officers attempted life saving measures on the man who was transported to an area hospital by the San Angelo Fire Department. He died at the hospital.

The involved officers were not injured.

The man was identified as Adam Lee Mendez, 38, of San Angelo.

The involved officers have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard operating procedure for officer involved shootings. The Texas Rangers are conducting the investigation.

This is the third officer involved shooting this year involving local law enforcement.

In early August officers responding to a domestic situation fatally shot Roberto Hernandez Jr., 29. Officers said Hernandez fled and a slow speed chase followed before he abandoned the vehicle and fled on foot. Hernandez was firing a weapon when he was shot near the O.C. Fisher Dam spillway, police reported at the time.

On Jan. 24, Scott Joseph Weber Jr., 27, was fatally shot after fleeing Tom Green County Sheriff's Office deputies and crashing into a Texas Department of Public Safety trooper's vehicle on West Shiloh Street. Weber was found with a shotgun in a backyard of a nearby residence and gunfire was exchanged, according to responding law enforcement officers.

Both of those incidents were under investigation by Texas Rangers, who have not released the findings of their inquiries.

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram for news updates. Submit news tips to News@GoSanAngelo.com.