Oklahoma City police identified an armed robbery suspect who was shot and killed by officers during a confrontation Monday night.According to police, officers responded to a report of an armed robbery just before 7 p.m. at Okie Gas Station in the 7900 block of Western Avenue, near Western Avenue and Southwest 74th Street. During the robbery, police said the store clerk left the store and locked the suspect, 15-year-old Stavian Rodriguez, inside. Officers arrived and surrounded the business, and police said they ordered Rodriguez to come out of the store. According to police, Rodriguez climbed out of the drive-thru window while holding a pistol. Police officials said Rodriguez did not follow officers’ commands and was shot. He was taken to OU Medical Center where he died. KOCO 5 was at the scene as the incident unfolded. Our photojournalist saw a person walk out of the business, where police yelled for him to drop something and officers fired. Warning: The video might be disturbing.No one else was injured.In all, five officers, including officers Bethany Sears, Jared Barton, Corey Adams, John Skuta and Brad Pemberton, fired shots, according to police. Sgt. Sarah Carli fired a less-lethal round, police said. All officers have been placed on administrative leave.

Oklahoma City police identified an armed robbery suspect who was shot and killed by officers during a confrontation Monday night.

According to police, officers responded to a report of an armed robbery just before 7 p.m. at Okie Gas Station in the 7900 block of Western Avenue, near Western Avenue and Southwest 74th Street. During the robbery, police said the store clerk left the store and locked the suspect, 15-year-old Stavian Rodriguez, inside.

Advertisement

Officers arrived and surrounded the business, and police said they ordered Rodriguez to come out of the store.

According to police, Rodriguez climbed out of the drive-thru window while holding a pistol. Police officials said Rodriguez did not follow officers’ commands and was shot. He was taken to OU Medical Center where he died.

KOCO 5 was at the scene as the incident unfolded. Our photojournalist saw a person walk out of the business, where police yelled for him to drop something and officers fired. Warning: The video might be disturbing.

No one else was injured.

In all, five officers, including officers Bethany Sears, Jared Barton, Corey Adams, John Skuta and Brad Pemberton, fired shots, according to police. Sgt. Sarah Carli fired a less-lethal round, police said. All officers have been placed on administrative leave.