Share with friends

Release:

Fayetteville, GA (November 30, 2020) – On Sunday, November 29, 2020, the GBI was requested by the Fayette County Sheriff’s Office to conduct an officer involved shooting investigation at 1720 S Highway 92, Fayetteville, Fayette County, GA.

Preliminary information indicates that at approximately 3:08 p.m., Alonzo Leroy Landy, 32, called 911 advising that he was telling people to get out of his head and was shooting rabbits. During the phone call, 911 dispatch heard numerous gunshots, and then Landy advised he was barricaded in his house.

At approximately 3:12 p.m., deputies were dispatched for a welfare check. Landy remained on the line with dispatch where the dispatcher continued to hear gunshots being fired. Landy advised dispatch that he would defend himself and would shoot cops if he had to.

When deputies arrived at the scene, they did not approach the residence due to Landy continuing to fire gunshots. At approximately 3:30 p.m., dispatch received a phone call that Landy had sent a mass text message to family saying he “couldn’t handle it anymore.” At this time, EMS was staged in the area, the Fayette County SWAT team was dispatched, and a perimeter was staged around the property. At approximately 3:35 p.m., the negotiation team was dispatched. At this time, Landy told dispatch “come on blue boys” and Landy continued to fire a gun.

During the negotiation, it was determined Landy was heavily intoxicated and that the negotiation was ineffective. At approximately 4:20 p.m., Landy appeared to be falling asleep during the phone conversation. At this time, the SWAT team decided they would attempt to deploy a robot inside the house to check on Landy’s whereabouts. Before the SWAT team could deploy the robot, at approximately 5:12 p.m., Landy exited his residence and began firing an assault rifle at the deputies. A Fayette County Sheriff’s Office deputy returned fire, striking Landy multiple times.

Landy was transported by EMS to Piedmont Fayette Hospital where he was pronounced deceased. No officers were injured during this incident.

The GBI will continue its independent investigation. Upon completion, it will be turned over the Fayette County District Attorney’s Office for review.