Escambia County Sheriff's Office deputies shot and killed a man with several felony warrants who led deputies on a car chase that ended Monday afternoon at a busy Pensacola intersection.

Three deputies fired shots at the suspect after a chase that started near Ninth Avenue and Bayou Boulevard and ended at the Ninth Avenue at Tippin Avenue and Langley Avenue intersection.

The suspect, who authorities said was armed with a handgun, succumbed to his injuries.

No deputies or civilians were injured in the pursuit or the shooting, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan said at a brief press conference at the scene of the shooting Monday afternoon.

As is standard protocol in an officer-involved shooting, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the incident.

The incident unfolded after the ECSO received a call about 2 p.m. from a local bondsman that a suspect with several felony warrants was in the area.

Chief Deputy Chip Simmons, who will take over as Escambia County sheriff in early January, said authorities could not release the identity of the suspect but confirmed the suspect had a slew of violent felony warrants, including for robbery, kidnapping, assault and others.

Deputies responding to the initial call tried to initiate a traffic stop near Ninth Avenue and Bayou Boulevard near the Target shopping center, and the suspect fled from the area, according to Morgan.

Bob Owen told the News Journal he witnessed the initial phase of the vehicle pursuit from his car.

► 61-year-old pedestrian dies after being stuck by two cars on Mobile Highway

► Pensacola police report 97-year-old man 'severely' beaten with his own cane

"I was driving on 12th Avenue when I saw a little red car fly through that intersection there with Bayou Boulevard and three sheriff’s cars were in pursuit. He almost hit a truck," Owen said, describing how multiple vehicles swerved to avoid collisions with the fleeing suspect. "Then, I saw more sheriff deputies come, one after the other, and I knew he had really stirred up the wasp’s nest."

Morgan said deputies attempted two different maneuvers in an attempt to slow down and stop the chase but were unsuccessful.

After more ECSO deputies arrived near Langley and Ninth avenues, they managed to maneuver their vehicles to prevent the suspect from driving any farther, Morgan said. The suspect’s vehicle came to a halt near the entrance to Pensacola Ballroom Studio at 6224 N. Ninth Ave.

"The suspect exited the vehicle with a firearm in his hand, ran toward the small business area over there, with our officers in foot pursuit," Morgan said. "He turned with a weapon in his hand toward officers and that's when gunfire was exchanged, and the individual is deceased."

Charles Seldom told the News Journal that he was inside a nearby laundromat when he heard what sounded like a car crash.

"I heard a bang," Seldom said. "I ran out and saw two cops jump out of their vehicles and run. They must have been chasing the guy."

The next thing Seldom heard was gunfire.

"I got back inside the laundry quick," he said. "You don’t know which way these people are going to shoot. A bullet doesn’t have one person's name on it."

Another witness, Tracy Carlson, said she heard the ECSO deputies yell "Stop! Stop!"

before they shot the suspect.

Rene Smoot said she pulled over across the street from the shooting scene Monday afternoon after seeing dozens of law enforcement vehicles gathered in one location.

"We call this intersection malfunction junction, and I thought it must have been a car wreck at first," Smoot said. "But then I saw just how many cars there were. It felt like every cop in Pensacola was here. It was surreal."

The Pensacola Police Department and the Florida Highway Patrol also responded to the shooting to assist the ECSO.

Colin Warren-Hicks can be reached at colinwarrenhicks@pnj.com or 850-435-8680.