A neighbor accused of shooting dead a Zumba instructor mom, 39, her 12-year-old son and the family housekeeper in Nevada this week was a drug addict who opened fire on the victims because he thought they had filed a drug abuse complaint against him, according to authorities.

Jason Neo Bourne, 38, is accused of shooting dead Jordanian-American mom Diana Hawatmeh, 39, and an unidentified 33-year-old woman at the 1400 block of Stonelake Cove Avenue in Henderson County Tuesday morning.

Hawatmeh's 16-year-old daughter, Yasmeen, was also injured and taken to hospital but is expected to survive.

Her 12-year-old son Joseph was also killed after cops exchanged gunfire with the suspect - identified as the family's upstairs neighbor.

Police said they arrived on the scene around 11 a.m. and found Bourne holed up inside a car, having taken Joseph hostage

He was holding a gun to the boy's head, and an officer-involved shooting unfolded which left both Joseph and Bourne dead.

It is not clear who fired the shots that killed the boy.

Diana Hawatmeh, 39 (second right) and her 12-year-old son, Joseph (front and center), were shot dead during an incident involving their neighbor and the police in Nevada. The woman's 16-year-old daughter, Yasmeen (far right), was wounded in the shooting

New details have now emerged about the circumstances surrounding the triple homicide.

Jordan's Foreign Ministry spokesperson said Thursday Bourne was a 'drug addict' and a preliminary investigation revealed he went on the killing rampage because he believed the Hawatmeh family had filed a complaint against him over alleged drug abuse, reported Andalou Agency.

Alfayez cited this as the suspected motive behind the killer going to the family's apartment and opening fire.

'The Jordanian Embassy in Washington is following the incident that led to the death of a Jordanian woman and her son,' said Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Daifallah Alfayez.

A spokesperson for Henderson Police Department refused to confirm or deny the details provided by Jordanian officials and told DailyMail.com they will not be providing any more information about the incident for weeks.

Police have also not confirmed whether Joseph was shot by Bourne or by police when they opened fire on the vehicle with the boy inside.

A statement from the police noted that a preliminary investigation has determined that Bourne 'fired multiple rounds inside the vehicle.'

Six officers have been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation.

Henderson police identified the officers involved in the shooting Thursday as Officer Jesse Hehn, Officer James Pendleton, Officer Philip Duffy, Officer Brett Anderson, Officer Jesse Lujan, Officer Seth Price, and Officer Luiz Amezcua.

The 33-year-old victim has also not been officially identified but Jordanian officials said she was the family's housekeeper.

She is not believed to be Jordanian but her nationality is otherwise unknown.

The Jordanian Embassy is working with Nevada authorities on the investigation.

DailyMail.com has reached out to the Jordanian Embassy in Washington and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates in Jordan for details.

The incident began unfolding at 11 a.m. on Tuesday, when cops and paramedics were dispatched to the 1400 block of Stonelake Cove Avenue for a report of gunshots and someone laying on the floor in a doorway of an apartment.

Hawatmeh (pictured). New details have now emerged about the shootings. Jordan's Foreign Ministry spokesperson said Thursday Bourne was a 'drug addict' and a preliminary investigation showed he shot the family because they filed a complaint against him over alleged drug abuse

Police have not confirmed whether Joseph was shot by Bourne or by police when they opened fire on the vehicle with the boy inside. Six officers have been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation. The family above

Officers arrived on scene to discover Diana and the 33-year-old woman dead from gunshot wounds, and Yasmeen injured.

Police found the suspected shooter armed with a handgun and barricaded in a nearby vehicle, with 12-year-old Joseph being held as a hostage.

'As officers attempted a de-escalation the situation, Bourne held his firearm to the juvenile's head, resulting in an officer-involved shooting,' a press release from the police stated.

Police removed the child from the car and attempted CPR, but he was pronounced dead at the scene along with Bourne.

Police said Bourne was the family's neighbor and lived above their apartment in Hawatmeh.

Police have provided no further details and have not formally identified the victims.

However they were named locally earlier this week.

Henderson Police officers and SWAT vehicles are shown at the scene of the fatal shooting at the apartment complex in Nevada

The 33-year-old victim has not been identified but was reportedly the family's housekeeper

The scene taped off Tuesday. Henderson Police would not confirm or deny reports of a suspected drug-related motive and said they will be providing no further details for weeks

Relatives and friends said Diana and her family split their time between Sandy, Utah, and Henderson, Nevada.

Diana worked as substitute teacher at Saint John the Baptist Middle School in Utah, where her son, known to his loved ones as JoJo, was a seventh-grader.

She was also a Zumba instructor and entrepreneur.

According to a letter the Skaggs Catholic Center community, where Diana was an active member, her husband and eldest son, Layth, were not involved in the shooting in Nevada.

At a vigil on Wednesday night in Draper, Utah, some 200 friends and members of the community mourned and prayed for the victims.

'She was one of a kind. She was special. She was graceful. She was elegant. She was kind, so kind,' Diana's close friend, Mary Ann Horn, told Fox 13.

Galey Colosimo, principal of Juan Diego Catholic High School, described the shooting that took the lives of Diana and Joseph Hawatmeh as a 'gut punch' and a 'tragedy of untold proportions.'

'She was a faith-filled woman, very much a family-oriented mother and wife,' he told Deseret News of the married mom-of-three, 'very vivacious, very fun loving and lots of energy, a beautiful woman.'

Felicia Frakes, a secretary at Saint John The Baptist Middle School, said Joseph liked the theater and participated in school plays, while his sister, who is a junior at Juan Diego Catholic High School, sang in the choir and played volleyball.

Henderson Police said this is the sixth officer-involved shooting in the city this year.