A hostage situation in which a man confined his former girlfriend and himself in a bedroom for two days ended late Monday afternoon when the man died by suicide, police said.

Hobart Police spokesman Capt. James Gonzales said in a release Wednesday that officers were sent around 5:40 p.m. Nov. 30 to the vicinity of the 3900 block of Missouri Street for a woman who was being held against her will. They initially spoke to the homeowner, who was a block away from the home, because she told them the man holding the woman in their home would kill the woman and himself if he knew the police were involved, Gonzales said.

Advertisement

Hobart officers, along with the Northwest Regional SWAT Team, surrounded the house and sounded the SWAT’S armored vehicle siren, Gonzales said. The woman then left the house and started walking toward police when three or four gunshots rang out from inside; she turned around to go back inside but ran from the house when she heard one or two more shots, he said.

Negotiators tried to contact the man for approximately two hours before entering the house and finding him dead of a gunshot wound to the head, Gonzales said.

Advertisement

The victim later told police that she’d left been staying at the Missouri Street house with her friend because she’d left the man – with whom she had a child -- after several instances of abuse for which he’d been charged and put on a home monitor, Gonzales said. The man contacted her Nov. 28, and said he was going to bring her some food, but when he arrived, he was armed and headed for a back bedroom, refusing to leave.

Later that evening, the woman said she followed the man into the bedroom, where he hit her in the head with the gun and broke her cell phone. She told police she then tried to leave the house the next day, but because he didn’t trust her, he refused and continued to hit her, also pointing the gun at her and threatening to kill her if she left him, Gonzales said.

The victim was able to contact the homeowner Monday and told them to call the police because of the abuse, Gonzales said.

The man, identified as Zachary Zampini, 22, of Merrillville, had several domestic calls against him in Merrillville was well as an open domestic battery and criminal confinement case Nov. 5 for which he was put on an ankle monitor and had cut it off, Gonzales said. The escape charges, however, had yet to be filed, he said.

Gonzales reiterated that the Hobart Police Department has a Victim’s Advocate on staff to help people in violent situations get the help they need.

“It can’t be emphasized enough: If you suspect someone is being abused, contact 9-1-1 immediately so we can attempt to provide resources early on and try to prevent incidents like this occurring,” he said in the release.

If you know someone or if you are involved in an abusive relationship please reach out to Andrea Graciano @ agraciano@cityofhobart.org or call 219-942-1124, Ext. 1069, or Samantha Bull @ sbull@cityofhobart.org or call 219-942-1125, Ext. 1061.

Michelle L. Quinn is a freelance reporter for the Post-Tribune.