Marek Mazurek

South Bend Tribune

MISHAWAKA — Clayton McClish and his girlfriend, Elizabeth Johnson, had just finished delivering Uber Eats and Door Dash food orders Wednesday evening when a vehicle being pursued by Mishawaka police crashed into McClish’s Chevy Cavalier, just blocks from his home on Spring Street.

McClish, 19, and Johnson, 18, both died in the crash.

“They were babies,” said McClish’s older sister, Brittany Wallace. “Just kids in love.”

Wallace, and her wife, Alissa Wallace, drove up from Indianapolis when she heard her little brother had been in the crash. The two, along with another of Clayton’s siblings, Megan McClish, left roses at the scene of the crash Thursday.

Brittany Wallace and Megan McClish said the family is still trying to process the events that led to Clayton’s death.

According to a release from the St. Joseph County Fatal Crash Team, the incident began with a police call around 8 p.m. Wednesday. Mishawaka officers were dispatched to a home in the 500 block of East 12th Street for reports of a door being kicked in.

The officers began to chase a male on foot near the scene; the suspect got into the back of a silver Pontiac Grand Prix and it drove away.

Officers pursued the Pontiac for “less than a minute” when it struck McClish’s car, which was heading south on Spring Street, according to the release. Two males in the Pontiac ran away after the crash, while a female passenger remained at the scene and cooperated with police. The driver of the Pontiac had not been publicly identified as of Thursday afternoon.

A man who lives near the crash scene told The Tribune that he heard the crash and went outside to see what was happening.

“I saw a guy get out (of the car) and run across the street ... through an alley,” said Logan Long.

Long said officers on the scene estimated the Pontiac was driving between 50 and 60 miles per hour when it hit the teens’ Chevy.

Brittany Wallace said police should not have pursued the suspects in a residential area.

“There’s a park a block over, there’s a stop sign every block. I just don’t think that they should have done that, especially in this type of neighborhood,” she said.

The crash occurred near the intersection of South Spring and West 13th streets, adjacent to the now-closed Awesome Place Bar and Grill. The neighborhood is primarily residential, with Rose Park and the Hannah Lindahl Children’s Museum a few blocks away.

Mishawaka Police Department policy leaves the decision on whether or not to start a pursuit largely up to officers’ judgment, although officers are instructed to “weigh the importance of apprehending suspects who unlawfully flee from law enforcement against the risks associated with vehicle pursuits.”

The department’s policy does not specify what offenses necessitate a pursuit but does include a number of factors for officers to consider when initiating a chase, such as road conditions, the safety of the public, traffic, the types of vehicles involved and the alleged crime committed.

Mishawaka Police Chief Ken Witkowski provided the Tribune with a copy of the department’s pursuit policy, but did not respond to questions about Wednesday’s incident, including about whether there will be an investigation to determine whether the pursuit followed policy. Witkowski cited the ongoing criminal investigation being done by FACT and the St. Joseph County Special Victims Unit.

McClish’s sisters said they’ll remember Clayton as young man who loved to laugh. He was the baby of the family as the youngest of six siblings, they said, and he was beginning to navigate his way into adulthood.

“He was just so goofy. He was a good dude,” Brittany Wallace said.

“He did off-the-wall things to make people laugh,” Alissa Wallace said.

Though Clayton and Elizabeth, who went by “Lizzie,” began dating this year, the two knew each other growing up and both attended Mishawaka High School.

Clayton’s sisters said Lizzie was a “sweet, quiet” girl, adding that she helped Clayton get through the death of his mother a little over a year ago.

Now, his family hopes to find closure in the arrests of the men who ran from the crash.

“We’ll never get him back, but we want to see them in court,” Brittany Wallace said, “and see what they have to say for what they just did.”

Police ask anyone with information to call FACT at 574-235-9514 or Crime Stoppers at 574-288-STOP.