Detroit — A 28-year-old man was shot and killed by authorities Tuesday morning after he fired on a police precinct and at least one officer, and held others at bay for hours.

Detroit Police Chief James Craig said the man is suspected of fatally shooting a woman Monday night.

Craig said the man drove up to the Detroit Police Department's 5th Precinct building on Conner and Mack on the city's east side about 5:15 a.m. Tuesday in a black SUV.

"He pulls up to the front of the police station," the chief said. "He gets out with a high-powered weapon, leans over the hood and begins to fire four shots into the police station."

A police lieutenant inside the building positioned himself to see what was happening and put a call out for help, to which several units responded, he said.

As the shooter left, he engaged an officer in a police car who was responding to the call, according to Craig. The man fired on the officer's car at least once, striking the windshield.

Craig said the man then traveled about half a block from the station and parked in the lot of a closed business. "He just sat there," the chief said.

Officers then called in the department's Special Response Team. Michigan State Police also arrived at the scene to assist. Conner and Mack were both closed to traffic and officials asked the public to avoid the area.

Police made several attempts to contact the man, but he did not respond, the police chief said.

Officers then used an armored vehicle to approach him, block his vehicle in the lot and keep him from leaving the area, Craig said.

As they moved in, they saw the man was holding an AR-15 against his chest. Police ordered the man to show them his hands, but he shook his head, Craig said. The man was then fatally shot during an exchange of gunfire with officers.

Craig said police continue to investigate the incident. However, detectives have tied the man to the Monday slaying of a woman with whom he has a child, he said.

Police said they believe the man shot and killed the woman about 11:15 p.m. in the area of West Grand River and West Warren. They have determined the two were involved in a child custody dispute.

Craig said at some point the man sent the woman a text message that basically told her he planned to kill her if his child was taken from him. The message also made reference to police and a judge.

He said it's not clear why the man targeted the 5th Precinct, but it may be related to the police he mentioned in his text message to the victim.

cramirez@detroitnews.com

Twitter: @CharlesERamirez