This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

A deputy shot and killed a kidnapping suspect who drove an SUV into the officer’s patrol vehicle at the parking lot of an apartment complex in Rowland Heights, authorities said Monday.

The L.A. County sheriff’s deputy, whose identity was not released, suffered non-life-threatening injuries in the shooting that stemmed from a domestic violence incident in the City of Industry Saturday night, officials said.

According to the Sheriff’s Department, a couple was arguing at a strip mall in the 1100 block of Fullerton Road, and when the woman tried to leave, the man grabbed her, forced her into a vehicle and fled.

Witnesses reported possibly hearing a gunshot during the ordeal, officials said.

Deputies from the Industry station responded to the location but the pair was gone. They did find a firearm, some ballistic evidence and property belonging to the woman, the Sheriff’s Department said in a statement. Lt. Scott Hoglund said the victim left her ID, and that she was apparently the man’s on-and-off again girlfriend.

Officers managed to find the victim with some abrasions to her face and lower body four hours after the kidnapping, the Sheriff’s Department said. Authorities identified her as a 24-year-old woman. They did not disclose where she was found.

Later, investigators learned that the alleged kidnapper was possibly driving a white Jeep Cherokee. The detectives distributed a “wanted” flyer to the Industry and Walnut/Diamond Bar stations on Sunday morning, according to the Sheriff’s Department.

About 12:45 p.m. that day, Industry station deputies found and chased the SUV, but the suspect got away, officials said. Then, around 7:45 p.m., deputies from the Walnut/Diamond Bar station saw the Jeep, and the man was able to escape again.

Just after 11:45 p.m., a deputy with the Industry station patrolling the 1900 block of Batson Avenue in Rowland Heights spotted a white Jeep Cherokee backed into an apartment complex’s carport parking lot.

The officer suspected that it was the wanted Jeep and pulled up in front of it. He exited his vehicle, at which point “the suspect appeared in the Jeep’s driver seat, revved the engine and rammed the front end of the patrol vehicle,” the Sheriff’s Department said.

The deputy’s leg got caught underneath the patrol vehicle, and he opened fire, according to the agency.

The suspect, described as a 28-year-old man, was pronounced dead at the scene, officials said. They did not release his name.

Although the Jeep was not reported stolen, detectives suspect that the man had unlawfully taken it. The other car that was used in the kidnapping was reported stolen, the Sheriff’s Department said.

“Due to the complexity of this ongoing investigation, no additional information is available at this time,” the department said.

Anyone with further information can call the Sheriff’s Department at 323-890-5500. Those who prefer to remain anonymous can call “Crime Stoppers” at 800-222-8477.