DAYTON — A man who was shot by Dayton police after police said he put a gun into the chest of an officer and raised the weapon again has died, according to Montgomery County Coroner Kent Harshbarger.

Donald Saunders, 37, died at Miami Valley Hospital after being shot during a domestic violence call on Rangeley Avenue Sunday night.

>> DeWine says curfew will be extended; state backed up with antigen tests

Police received a 911 call from a neighbor that believed a man was hurting a woman during the disturbance. When officers arrived on scene, they found blood on the doorknob and attempted to talk to the people inside, Assistant Dayton Police Chief Matt Carper said.

Officers knocked, identified themselves as police officers, and heard a woman screaming for help, Carper said.

“‘He has a gun and is threating to shoot me,’” the woman told responding officers, according to Carper.

The three responding officers forced their way into the unit, but were met by Saunders trying to keep the door closed with his body, Carper said.

After officers were able to get inside, Saunders pointed a gun directly into the chest of the first officer who went inside. That officer was able to knock the gun away, but Saunders raised the gun again in the direction of the officers.

After raising the gun towards police, all three officers fired shots, nine in total, that hit Saunders at least four times, Carper said. Saunders was transported to an area hospital and is listed in critical condition.

It was not known if Saunders fired any shots, however Carper said its possible he did and investigators are looking into that possibility.

Carper noted that Saunders has an extensive, violent criminal record and his previous convictions meant he was not supposed to be in possession of a firearm. Part of the investigation will include how Saunders obtained the weapon.

Carper said that so far in the investigation there was “plenty of evidence” to support that Saunders was harming the victim. Potential charges in the incident are pending and any charges will be presented to the Montgomery County Prosecutor’s Office. Also, Dayton police will be coordinating with Toledo police for additional charges that might stem from the investigation.

Two children who were home at the time of the incident were not injured.

All three Dayton officers, who were not identified, have been placed on administrative leave, in accordance with department policy, and while the criminal and internal investigation are conducted.

None of the officers were wearing body cameras during the incident because Dayton police’s pilot program of using the cameras had ended.

Following this officer-involved shooting, Dayton police have met with the Community Police Council and clergy members about the incident, Carper said.

Cox Media Group