Josh Dulaney

Oklahoma City police body camera footage of the night a 56-year-old Black man died in custody shows medical personnel struggling with him and cheering after he is restrained.

Olain Jefferson Jr. of Oklahoma City died May 14 after he became involved in a struggle with medical workers and officers, and was taken to the Oklahoma County jail.

He was arrested after assaulting a nurse at Integris Southwest Medical Center and becoming combative with police.

Police body camera video shows hospital staff and officers trying to restrain Jefferson in a hospital bed.

Jefferson is groaning, and dressed only in boxer briefs while handcuffed behind his back, when a male medical worker says, “Now what you gon’ do, huh?”

At a suggestion to use soft leg restraints to prevent Jefferson from kicking, the medical worker says, “Soft restraints, my ass.”

At a suggestion to sedate Jefferson, the medical worker, while pressing down on Jefferson’s head, says “No, take him to jail.”

When personnel roll Jefferson over, and cuff him to a bedrail, a female medical staffer is seen clapping and saying “Good job, Regina. Back at it again with them real restraining skills.”

Medical personnel have been cleared of any legal wrongdoing. Integris officials have reviewed the video.

"Physical restraint of violent patients is an unfortunately necessary action when the patient poses a threat to the safety of self or others," spokeswoman Brooke Cayot said. "That restraint does become complicated when the patient commits a crime against a health care worker and police are involved in the response. Integris Health does perform an investigation of patient encounters that include harm to a patient and/or a caregiver and takes appropriate action to educate and address staff as needed. At this time, we are unable to release specific results of an investigation."

Additional footage shows Jefferson with a spit hood over his head while officers struggle to place him in a patrol car. Spit hoods are mesh bags that officers sometimes put over the heads of combative individuals while making an arrest to protect themselves from being spit upon or bitten.

The use of spit hoods has been the subject of controversy. Body camera footage showed Rochester, New York, police placed a spit hood over Daniel Prude, a 41-year-old Black man, during his deadly March arrest.

At the Oklahoma County jail, Jefferson initially was placed prone on the floor. Authorities said he struggled with officers when they tried to place him in a wheelchair.

Video shows someone in a group of authorities yelling “Hey, f---in’ chill!” at Jefferson while trying to restrain him in the wheelchair.

Jefferson appears to become unresponsive, and medical personnel are seen using chest compressions to try and save his life. Authorities said Jefferson was taken by ambulance to a hospital where he was pronounced dead.

An Oklahoma City Police Department report said Jefferson died in custody after a "minor use of force."

Oklahoma County District Attorney David Prater cleared officers of any legal wrongdoing.

"After studying the investigations and the ME’s (medical examiner's) report, I have determined that NO CRIME WAS COMMITTED," Prater said in a September email sent to Oklahoma City Police Chief Wade Gourley and Oklahoma County Sheriff P.D. Taylor.

"I have also determined that Olain Jefferson’s death was not the result of any action by any individual or group of individuals other than Mr. Jefferson himself," Prater wrote. "That includes any employee of the Oklahoma City Police Department, the Oklahoma County Sheriff’s Office or any medical personnel who attempted to assist Mr. Jefferson in the ambulance, at the hospital or in the jail."

An autopsy report on Jefferson does not say that the spit hood contributed to his death.

The report says Jefferson had the hallucinogen phencyclidine (PCP) in his system and was arrested after assaulting a nurse at Integris Southwest Medical Center and becoming combative with police.

Jefferson had gone to the hospital complaining of shortness of breath, cough and chest tightness, the autopsy report said.

The autopsy lists "bilateral pulmonary thromboemboli due to deep vein thrombosis of right leg" as the likely cause of his death.

"In addition, his underlying severe heart disease also carries a risk of sudden death," the autopsy said. "In this case, it is not known to what extent the PCP intoxication and physical exertion during a struggle played a role in his death but they at least likely exacerbated his underlying health conditions."

Jefferson's body showed evidence of "non-lethal trauma," including multiple abrasions and bruises and hemorrhaging beneath his scalp and frontal skull, the autopsy indicates.

A list of demands made in June by Black Lives Matter included the immediate public release of arrest records in the case as well as body cam footage taken by all police involved in his arrest.