An Army soldier who was shot and killed Wednesday morning by a Pima County sheriff’s deputy was in Tucson on leave to attend his father’s funeral.

The father and son had both been described as suicidal, and each was involved in standoffs with law enforcement at the same Tucson-area home within the last three weeks.

Marty Maiden II, 20, was killed by the deputy at the house where Maiden’s father, also named Marty Maiden, shot himself on Halloween during a prolonged standoff, said Deputy Courtney Rodriguez, a Pima County Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman.

After the attempted suicide, the elder Maiden, 51, an Air Force veteran who had a series of health problems during the year, died Nov. 3, according to postings from family on Facebook and from an online obituary website.

His funeral service was Friday. The elder Maiden, who had worked in the aviation field, was described in postings as a loving family man who liked to cook, restore old vehicles, collect guns and go camping.

On Wednesday, deputies were sent to the Maiden home in the 7500 block of South Woodbury Grove Drive, southwest of Tucson, at about 7:30 a.m., Rodriguez said. The house is in a neighborhood near South Wade and West Valencia roads.

Deputies were dispatched after a 911 call about a suicidal man at the residence, she said.

The younger Maiden barricaded himself in his family’s home, Rodriguez said. Neighbors were evacuated from their homes and SWAT officers were called in to assess the situation.

Rodriguez described the incident this way:

Maiden called 911 to report a suicidal person. When the call taker asked him who was suicidal, Maiden responded "me" and hung up the phone.

Friends also reported to 911 that Maiden had written some suicidal comments on Facebook.

Deputies tried but were not succesful in establishing contact with Maiden, who was inside the house.

The SWAT team was called in and at 9:30 a.m. Maiden came outside the residence armed with a semi-automatic rifle and a shotgun. When he pointed the guns at deputies he was shot once by a deputy.

Maiden, who was on leave from a deployment to Afghanistan, was pronounced dead at the scene. His Facebook page said he was in an Army unit stationed at Fort Hood, Texas.

Detectives with the Sheriff’s Department remained at the scene well into Wednesday night.

The deputy, a 12-year veteran, was placed on administrative leave, Rodriguez said.