A hammer-wielding burglar was shot and killed by Las Vegas police early Tuesday at a home in one of the Las Vegas Valley’s most exclusive neighborhoods.

Las Vegas police Capt. Sasha Larkin provides details about a fatal officer-involved shooting in the Spanish Hills subdivision. (Glenn Puit/Las Vegas Review-Journal)

The Metropolitan Police Department is investigating after a burglar was shot by police in a home at 5000 block of Spanish Heights near West Tropicana Avenue, on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020, in Las Vegas. (Bizuayehu Tesfaye/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @bizutesfaye

The Metropolitan Police Department is investigating after a burglar was shot by police in a home at 5000 block of Spanish Heights near West Tropicana Avenue, on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020, in Las Vegas. (Bizuayehu Tesfaye/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @bizutesfaye

The Metropolitan Police Department is investigating after a burglar was shot by police in a home at 5000 block of Spanish Heights near West Tropicana Avenue, on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020, in Las Vegas. (Bizuayehu Tesfaye/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @bizutesfaye

A Las Vegas police SUV at the entrance to the Spanish Hills subdivision where an officer-involved shooting occurred early Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020. (Glenn Puit/Las Vegas Review-Journal)

The entrance to the Spanish Hills subdivision on West Tropicana Avenue. An officer-involved shooting occurred in the 5000 block of Spanish Heights Drive on Tuesday, Dec. 8, 2020. (Glenn Puit/Las Vegas Review-Journal)

A hammer-wielding burglar was shot and killed by Las Vegas police early Tuesday at a home in one of the Las Vegas Valley’s most exclusive neighborhoods.

Metropolitan Police Department Capt. Sasha Larkin said police were called at 1:20 a.m. to a home near West Tropicana Avenue and Interstate 215 for a reported burglary in progress. Police said the shooting occurred in the 5100 block of Spanish Heights Drive.

“As officers arrived on scene and approached the house they could see the suspect inside the house,” Larkin said. “Officers made entry into the house and immediately saw the suspect armed with a hammer attempting to attack the homeowner.”

Larkin said officers shot the male intruder. She confirmed the individual was not known to the homeowner.

“Officers immediately summoned for medical attention and when they arrived, unfortunately, they pronounced the suspect deceased,” Larkin said.

Police did not disclose how they believe the intruder gained access to the home in a gated community with private security. Larkin said two people were in the residence at the time. Both a security system alert and a call from the homeowner were received by police prior to the shooting.

The shooting happened on a street featuring some of the valley’s most luxurious homes. One of the houses on the block was formerly owned by actor Nicolas Cage. That house sold out of foreclosure for just under $5 million a decade ago.

The home where the shooting occurred, according to police logs, has a taxable valuable of $6.7 million, according to Clark County property records.

Attempts to contact the occupants of the home Tuesday morning were not immediately successful.

The death of the intruder is the 18th officer-involved shooting this year by Metro officers.

The officers involved were placed on administrative leave and their names will be released within 48 hours, per Metro policy.

Contact Glen Puit at gpuit@reviewjournal.com. Follow @GlennatRJ on Twitter.