The state Department of Justice was investigating an officer-involved death near Fort Atkinson Wednesday afternoon after an attempted traffic stop by the State Patrol, the department said.

The State Patrol attempted the traffic stop of a car with a driver and one passenger on Highway 26 between Watertown and Johnson Creek about 12:30 p.m., according to a DOJ statement. The car stopped for a short time, the passenger got out and fled, and the car then fled as well. The passenger was eventually found.

The State Patrol pursued the car, and the driver of the car fired shots at law enforcement, DOJ said.

According to DOJ:

The car was going south on Highway 26 when road spikes were deployed. The car then exited Highway 26 at Highway 12, stopping at the median. The driver got out of the car with a handgun and tried to carjack a civilian, and three state troopers fired and struck the driver.

Life-saving measures were attempted, but the driver died at the scene. No one else was injured during the incident.

The troopers involved have been placed on leave, in keeping with policy.

DOJ’s Division of Criminal Investigation is heading the investigation with the help of the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office, state Crime Laboratory and DOJ’s Office of Crime Victim Services.

DOJ said no further information was being released Wednesday.

$1 million bail for man charged with killing Brittany Zimmermann tops recent notable crime news in Madison area

$1 million bail for man charged with killing Brittany Zimmermann tops recent notable crime news in Madison area Bail set at $1 million for man charged in Brittany Zimmermann homicide Occupied car hit, but no injuries reported in series of Sunday shootings, Madison police say Madison police identify officer seriously injured in Sun Prairie crash that killed wife Shots heard from condo before officers enter, find man's body in apparent suicide after domestic struggle Man pleads guilty to gun possession during Downtown unrest, but issue of his arrest remains Driver seriously injured in Williamson Street crash involving alcohol, high speeds, Madison police say Madison police release pictures of Far East Side ‘porch pirates’ 3 more Wisconsin prisoners die from COVID-19, DOC reports Madison police, U.S. Marshals arrest 15-year-old suspect in Chicago homicide