DA: Man takes own life after after hostage situation, standoff in Manheim Township, Lancaster County

A hostage situation and standoff in Manheim Township, Lancaster County, ended with a man taking his own life, according to the district attorney’s office.Officials said the man died early Wednesday morning of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.A member of law enforcement also fired a shot at the man, investigators said, and that shot grazed the man’s rib area.Police responded around 8 p.m. Tuesday to Sunnybrook Townhouses on Knollwood Drive after receiving a call that a woman was in danger.Police said they later determined the man was armed with a knife and a handgun and was abusing the woman.Officers who arrived the home received no response when they knocked at the door. Minutes later, police said, the woman yelled out a window asking for help.Soon after, a shot was fired from the second-floor bedroom from the man’s handgun, investigators said. No one was injured by that shot.The Lancaster County Special Emergency Response Team (SERT) was called to the scene and took action to communicate with the man.Investigators said SERT deployed a flash-bang device around 1 a.m. and went into the home.Police said two shots were fired when officers entered the bedroom where the man and woman were located. One shot was the man’s self-inflicted gunshot and the other was fired by a SERT officer, investigators said.The man was found dead in the bedroom. His name hasn’t been released.The woman was found in a closet.Pennsylvania State Police are investigating the incident. Lancaster County District Attorney Heather Adams will make a determination on whether the officer’s use of force was justified.

A hostage situation and standoff in Manheim Township, Lancaster County, ended with a man taking his own life, according to the district attorney’s office.

Officials said the man died early Wednesday morning of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.

Advertisement

A member of law enforcement also fired a shot at the man, investigators said, and that shot grazed the man’s rib area.

Police responded around 8 p.m. Tuesday to Sunnybrook Townhouses on Knollwood Drive after receiving a call that a woman was in danger.

Police said they later determined the man was armed with a knife and a handgun and was abusing the woman.

Officers who arrived the home received no response when they knocked at the door.

Minutes later, police said, the woman yelled out a window asking for help.

Soon after, a shot was fired from the second-floor bedroom from the man’s handgun, investigators said. No one was injured by that shot.

The Lancaster County Special Emergency Response Team (SERT) was called to the scene and took action to communicate with the man.

Investigators said SERT deployed a flash-bang device around 1 a.m. and went into the home.

Police said two shots were fired when officers entered the bedroom where the man and woman were located. One shot was the man’s self-inflicted gunshot and the other was fired by a SERT officer, investigators said.

The man was found dead in the bedroom. His name hasn’t been released.

The woman was found in a closet.

Pennsylvania State Police are investigating the incident. Lancaster County District Attorney Heather Adams will make a determination on whether the officer’s use of force was justified.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.