The body of a man in his 20s is removed from a home on the 5600 block of South Nottingham Avenue in Chicago's Garfield Ridge neighborhood where he was shot to death inside the home, allegedly during an altercation with an off-duty Chicago police officer on Dec 9, 2020. (Jose M. Osorio / Chicago Tribune)

A man in his 20s who was shot to death inside a home on the Southwest Side by an off-duty Chicago police officer after a fight has been identified as the officer’s son, multiple sources said Wednesday.

Police responded to the 5600 block of South Nottingham Avenue in the Garfield Ridge neighborhood about 1:45 a.m., according to a statement from Chicago police. They believe the shooting was “domestic-related.”

Advertisement

Rafael Flores, who lived in the same block where he died, was pronounced dead at 2:02 a.m., according to Brittany Hill, a spokeswoman for the medical examiner’s office, who said Flores’ autopsy will most likely be scheduled for Thursday.

Multiple sources said Flores is the officer’s son. Records show the owner of the home has been a Chicago cop for about 20 years.

Advertisement

[ Ohio man fatally shot by police was holding a sandwich, not a gun, his family says ]

Flores died inside the home after he was shot “by the homeowner during a physical” fight, according to the police media notification. Sources said the homeowner is the off-duty Chicago police officer who fired his weapon.

Police said the man was 23, and after initially identifying the man’s age as 26, the Cook County medical examiner’s office later corrected that information, confirming he was 23.

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability is investigating.

“Our investigation is now open and ongoing,” said Ephraim Eaddy, a spokesman for the police oversight office.

[ Man seriously injured after exchanging gunfire with Chicago cops who stopped his car in Rogers Park, police say ]

“Usually COPA responds to incidents where an officer has discharged their weapon, so obviously, in a case like this, that will definitely be the reason we responded,” he said.

Authorities did not answer questions Wednesday morning.

“At this time, we have no additional information beyond what is posted,” police spokeswoman Kellie Bartoli wrote in an email.

Chicago Tribune’s Jeremy Gorner contributed.

Advertisement

kdouglas@chicagotribune.com

jgorner@chicagotribune.com



