The message came over Sussex County's fire/EMS radio channel just after 7:53 p.m. Thursday.

"Police action for gunshots, 19540 Coastal Highway, Econo Lodge," the dispatcher said urgently. "Medics requested."

Responding paramedics rushed to the motel near Rehoboth Beach, but they were too late.

Police were already on their way to Beebe Healthcare with a Milford police officer who had been shot multiple times by a fugitive he was trying to apprehend. And the suspect, a 37-year-old wanted for attempted murder in Pennsylvania, was dead.

A day later, it remains unclear exactly how the incident outside the Econo Lodge Inn and Suites Resort unfolded. But witnesses said it happened quickly – and chaotically.

Yvonne Turner, who had been staying at the motel for about three weeks, was by her hotel room when, around 7:45 p.m., a vehicle occupied by law enforcement pulled up behind a truck that was parked in the lot near the motel's office.

As police boxed in the truck, Turner said, a man jumped out of his vehicle and started shooting.

"He ran across the parking lot and was firing back at the officer, and the officer was chasing him. Then he was on the ground," she said. "I don't know if the gun was still in his hand or what, but the officer was telling him to get on the ground when he was on the ground. Then he shot (the suspect)."

Turner didn't know at the time that the barrage of bullets had struck a 38-year-old Milford officer assigned to the U.S. Marshals Violent Fugitive Task Force in Delaware. The agents had tracked the fugitive to the Econo Lodge and were attempting to arrest him.

Econo Lodge said Friday the suspect "was not a registered guest at the hotel." Police have not yet released his name.

INITIAL STORY:Police investigate possible officer-involved shooting incident north of Rehoboth

Little additional information about the incident is known, but Turner, teary and anxious Friday morning as she described the scene, called it "very traumatic." She was one of a handful of people who saw the events unfold, but was the only one who would speak about it.

Delaware State Police, the lead agency in the investigation, said both a trooper and a probation and parole officer shot at the suspect. Both have been placed on administrative leave as an investigation into the shooting is conducted, per departmenta; policy.

The Milford officer, who has not been identified, is in critical condition but stable. He underwent surgery at Christiana Hospital, where he was flown Thursday evening from Beebe.

"My thoughts — and those of every person in this department — are with (the) Milford police officer," Delaware Attorney General Kathy Jennings said Friday. "The attempt on this officer and his fellow officers' lives has only been public for a short time, but I know that his entire community is hurt, angry and rooting hard for a swift recovery."

The shootings capped a violent two days in Delaware, where 10 people were shot, three fatally.

On Wednesday evening, two men were shot in separate incidents on I-95 near Christiana and within Wilmington city limits.

Then, early Thursday afternoon, a 28-year-old man was shot and killed in Wilmington. Less than an hour later, two males – a juvenile and a 29-year-old – were shot in the community of Rosegate, near New Castle. The 29-year-old died.

MORE:One killed in double shooting in Rosegate, near New Castle

Several hours after that, three men were shot near New Castle.

The Milford officer and the suspect are the ninth and 10th victims in the two-day period.

Delaware Online reporter Xerxes Wilson contributed to this story.

Send story tips or ideas to Isabel Hughes at ihughes@delawareonline.com or 302-324-2785. For all things breaking news, follow her on Twitter at @izzihughes_