Randi Marie Fritze tragic accident in Cass County

The content of this page is covered by and subject to our legal disclaimer

Tragic incident happened at about 3 a.m. in 2700 block of 32nd Avenue South

FARGO, ND, (December 11, 2020) - Randi Marie Fritze, 31, sadly died trying to escape from a vehicle driven by Dylan Michael Lepard during a police chase on Friday, December 11th, in Fargo. Lepard has been charged with felony reckless endangerment and failing to report a fatal accident.

Randi Marie Fritze, 31, sadly died trying to escape from a vehicle driven by Dylan Michael Lepard during a police chase on Friday, December 11th, in Fargo.

Lepard sped away from an officer that tried to stop the vehicle at about 3 a.m. in south Fargo. Ms. Fritze, a passenger in the vehicle, was found in the parking lot of an apartment complex in the 2700 block of 32nd Avenue South. She tragically was pronounced dead at the scene.

Mr. Lepard was apprehended a short time later at a residence in the 3000 block of 33rd Street South.

FATAL ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION NEEDED

Based on preliminary reports, liability on the part of Mr. Lepard appears clear as he was trying to evade police during the course of the accident that claimed the life of Ms. Fritze.

Traffic laws clearly state that all drivers should exercise caution and reasonable care to ensure the safety of passenger and other motorists on our roadways. During its probe, authorities will try to determine if Mr. Lepard was speeding while reviewing other potential variables that contributed to the fateful accident.

Candice Bond, an experienced auto accident attorney, noted in cases such as this that it's imperative to have an independent probe conducted by a seasoned lawyer to protect the family of the victim’s rights. The investigation will study all potential factors in her sad death, including whether authorities followed proper procedures during the chase.

“Time is of the essence in cases such as this and the family of victim must ensure that evidence is reviewed in an efficient manner,” said Bond, Managing Partner at Bond Legal. “An attorney has the resources to interview expert witnesses, conduct defendant background checks and review applicable insurance coverage. These procedures are necessary for helping those who have lost a loved one in an accident receive the monetary compensation that they are entitled, while vigorously protecting their legal rights and interests.”

WRONGFUL DEATH CLAIM

Pending results of the investigation, the family of Randi Marie Fritze may be entitled to a wrongful death claim. Family members of wrongful death victims may seek damages for loss of love and companionship, funeral expenses, pain and suffering, and emotional distress following a tragic or catastrophic accident such as this tragic incident.

“The stress and sorrow can be extremely overwhelming after losing a loved one in an accident,” said Stefano Formica, Of Counsel with Bond Legal. “We understand just what families are forced to go through, and having their rights protected is vital. A wrongful death lawyer will stay updated on the official investigation and help ensure that their legal rights and best interests are protected."

If you or a family member have been involved in a situation similar to this article and would like to speak to our national legal analysts Candice Bond or Stefano Formica free of charge, please use the contact information found on this page

(Candice Bond, Managing Partner, and Stefano Formica, Of Counsel, at Bond Legal, are the national legal analysts for The Legal Advocate. The Legal Advocate can and does use quotes from prior interviews with our analysts for our news articles. If you would like to contact Bond Legal to help you, please call 866-599-0297 or use the submission box found on this page. Legal analysts quoted may or may not be licensed in your state).