A man killed during a shootout with Border Patrol agents in New Mexico is believed to be a man wanted for attempted murder in Iowa.

According to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, agents manning an immigration checkpoint near Las Cruces attempted to stop a Chevrolet Impala as it tried to go around them Wednesday morning. The Impala fled north, and the driver fired several shots at Border Patrol agents, who returned fire and pursued.

The vehicle eventually came to a stop along Highway 26, west of Truth or Consequences, authorities report, and the driver was transported to a nearby hospital, where he later died.

A passenger in the vehicle was taken into custody.

The news release does not identify the man, saying only he was wanted for murder in Iowa, but Omaha-based KETV NewsWatch 7 reported the man was Benjamin Manley, 36, who was wanted by Council Bluffs police and U.S. Marshals for allegedly shooting at a woman outside a Council Bluffs gas station on Thanksgiving.

More:Border Patrol reports driver taken to hospital after shooting at agents

Investigators are not yet sure if Manley's fatal injuries were self-inflicted or caused by gunfire from pursuing agents. U.S. Marshals had previously warned that Manley was highly dangerous and could attempt "suicide by cop."

No one else was injured as a result Wednesday's shooting, which is still under investigation, according to authorities.

Court records show Manley in 2007 was charged with shooting at a U.S. Marshal in Omaha, and was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison. Department of Corrections records show Manley was released from prison in July.

Manley also was charged that year in Iowa court with robbery, kidnapping, assault and weapon charges, but all counts were later dismissed. Prior to 2007, Manley had multiple state felony convictions for theft and fleeing police.

More from the courts:

William Morris covers courts for the Des Moines Register. He can be contacted at wrmorris2@registermedia.com, 715-573-8166 or on Twitter at @DMRMorris.