The Sevierville Police Department said that officers responded to an armed robbery Thursday evening and during the response, an officer-involved shooting occurred.

Example video title will go here for this video

SEVIERVILLE, Tenn. — UPDATE: Two people are facing charges after a reported armed robbery in Sevierville Thursday.

Mitchell Gagel, 23, of Cookeville is charged wit aggravated robbery, especially aggravated kidnapping, and aggravated assault.

Tiffany Mynatt, 28, of Mascot, TN has been charged with aggravated robbery.

These charges come after a victim said they, and a third person, attempted to rob him. Police found a car matching the victim's description and a chase ensued.

Sevierville police said the suspect vehicle made contact with a patrol vehicle while fleeing north on the Parkway, causing the patrol vehicle to strike a concrete bridge barrier new the intersection of Parkway and Forks of the River Parkway.

The officer in that vehicle was injured, and taken to LeConte Medical Center where he was treated and released.

The car continued to speed away, turning on to Dolly Parton Parkway and at times driving on the wrong side of the road.

Police said the car eventually became disabled after turning onto Bluegrass Road off Old Newport Highway.

An officer involved shooting ensued and one suspect was killed.

Sergeant Justin Armstrong, Officer Mark McNabney, Officer Tyler Hansen and Officer Lance Chandler were all involved in the incident and all placed on administrative leave, per Sevierville Police Department policy.

The TBI will lead the investigation into this shooting.

UPDATE: The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation identified the suspects in an officer-involved shooting in Sevierville.

They said that Mitchell Gagel, 23, and Tiffany Leshay Mynatt, 38, were involved in the incident. Officials also said that Joshua Hoffpauir, 33, died at the scene.

Officials said that Sevierville Police responded to the report of an armed robbery in the 600 block of Parkways just before 9 p.m. on Thursday. They said that officers spotted an SUV with the suspects inside of it.

The driver of the SUV refused to stop and officers started pursuing them. It ended near Bluegrass Road after the SUV was disabled and as officers were ordering the suspects out, the situation escalated. The reasons it escalated are still under investigation, officials said.

Officers fired shots and struck all three suspects, officials said. The drive, Hoffpauir, was pronounced dead the scene while the other two suspects were sent to a local hospital.

One officer received minor injuries during the pursuit due to a collision. The Tennessee Highway Patrol is handling the crash investigation, officials said.

--

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said that it is looking into an officer-involved shooting that occurred in Sevierville Thursday night.

Officials with the Sevierville Police Department said that officers responded to a reported armed robbery Thursday evening near TJ Maxx on Parkway. Dispatchers received the call around 8:55 p.m.

They said that an individual was reportedly held at gunpoint and robbed outside the business.

Upon arrival, officers said they spotted an SUV occupied by the reported robbery suspects. The driver of the vehicle refused to stop and a pursuit ensued, which ended near Bluegrass Road after the SUV became disabled.

As officers were attempting to order the three occupants out of the vehicle, the situation escalated, and for reasons still under investigation, officers fired shots, according to the TBI.

Investigators said one of the individuals was pronounced dead at the scene. The two other occupants were transported to a local hospital for treatment.

Two individuals involved in the incident have been identified as Mitchell Gagel and Tiffany Leshay Mynatt.

Officials are still trying to identify the individual who was pronounced dead at the scene.

This story will be updated when more information is available.