WICHITA, Kan. (KWCH) - Update: Tuesday, December 22, 2020: Wichita police have identified the suspect in a deadly officer-involved shooting that occurred after a bank robbery and chase on Monday.

Police said the incident started around 3:40 p.m. when officers responded to a bank robbery at the Golden Plains Credit Union, located at 9555 East Corporate Hills Drive. They said the suspect, 50-year-old Paul Peraza, entered the bank, walked behind the counter, and demanded money. Employees did not see a weapon, but they feared for their safety, according to police. Peraza took the money and left the bank in a Toyota Tundra. The Tundra was reported stolen on December 14, and the incident is documented under case number 20C076864.

An officer observed the Toyota traveling north on Webb Road and attempted to stop it. Peraza refused to stop and drove at excessive speeds into oncoming traffic. Peraza turned east on 13th Street and struck a citizen’s 2001 silver Chevy Suburban that was stopped at a red light. The driver received minor injuries. Peraza then put the Tundra in reverse and rammed the officer’s patrol vehicle. The officer was not injured. Peraza refused to exit the truck. The police department said the officer, concerned about his safety and the public’s safety, fired shots and struck Peraza. Peraza then drove forward and struck a Honda Accord, which was also stopped at the intersection.

OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTING WATCH LIVE: Wichita police are giving an update on a bank robbery, chase and deadly shooting from Monday afternoon. https://bit.ly/34DpoUl #kwch12 Posted by KWCH 12 Eyewitness News on Tuesday, December 22, 2020

EMS responded to render aid, but Peraza died on the scene. Investigators recovered money from the robbery in the bed of the pick-up truck.

After the incident, police learned:

In 1996, Peraza was convicted of a bank robbery in California. He was also convicted of an armed bank robbery in 2006 in Oklahoma and was placed on Federal Probation.

On December 10, Peraza was arrested by WPD for felon in possession of firearm, possession of illegal weapons, possession of methamphetamine, auto theft, possession of narcotics, and possession of a narcotic instrument.

A federal probation violation warrant had been issued for Peraza on December 14, 2020.

The Kanas Bureau of Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are assisting in the investigation.

The involved WPD officer is a nine-year veteran of the department and is assigned to the Patrol East Bureau. The officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol in officer-involved shootings.

Monday, December 21, 2020

Bank robbery suspect dead after chase, officer-involved shooting in east Wichita

A suspect in an east Wichita bank robbery is dead after a chase and report of shots fired near 13th and Webb Road in east Wichita. Police said the robbery happened about 3:40 p.m. Monday (Dec. 21) at the Golden Plains Credit Union in the 9500 block of East Corporate Hills Drive, north of Kellogg and Webb road. The suspect demanded money and fled the scene driving a stolen truck, police said.

The chase ended when the suspect crashed at 13th and Webb Road. Four vehicles were involved in the crash. Police report shots were fired and the suspect died. The Kansas Bureau of Investigation is investigating the shooting, police said.

The Wichita Police Department has about one mile of Webb Road blocked off due to its response to what it described as “an officer-involved incident” stemming from a bank robbery.” Police have Webb shut down from Central to 13th.

Eyewitness News has a crew on scene to gather further information.

Copyright 2020 KWCH. All rights reserved.