UPDATE (12/24/20 10:58 PM) — According Mobile County Sheriff’s Office’s jail log, Murphy was released from jail Wednesday night at around 6:30.

UPDATE (12/23/20 1:01 PM) — Former Prichard police officer Murphy was seen in court Wednesday and given a 200k bond.

Defendant Johnathan Murphy appeared in front of Judge Zohgby today for a bond hearing. The State asked for 250k bond, no possession of firearms, and for the defendant to not to be employed as a law enforcement officer or a security officer while the case is pending. All bond conditions were granted by the Judge except for the bond amount. He was granted a 200k bond instead. Mobile County District Attorney’s Office

MOBILE, Ala. (WKRG) – UPDATE (3:39 p.m. 12/22/20): Prichard police say Jonathan Murphy has been terminated after being charged with murder early Tuesday morning.

The Prichard Police Department is aware of the off-duty officer-involved shooting that occurred at Avalon Plaza Apartments which is located at 3600 Michael Blvd. Mobile, AL 36609. The criminal investigation is being conducted by the Mobile Police department and the Mobile County District Attorney’s Office. The Prichard Police Department is conducting its own internal investigation. The officer involved has been terminated. Prichard Police Chief Walter Knight

Original story

An off-duty Prichard police officer has been arrested and charged with murder after a shooting at an apartment complex in Mobile.

The shooting happened just after 10:00 p.m. Monday night at the Avalon Plaza Apartments on Michael Boulevard.

At the scene, police found a man who had been shot multiple times. They’ve identified him as 39-year-old Larry Taylor. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Following the shooting, Jonathan Murphy was charged with murder and booked into Mobile County Metro Jail early Tuesday morning.

Mobile Police Chief Lawrence Battiste commented on the arrest saying “It’s always difficult when you are working a case against anyone, but Anytime you are working one that involves another law enforcement, but again the facts in this case from a preliminary stand point and we believe the right decision was made in making sure we arrested murphy. Our goal is to make sure with the facts that we have right now that Mr. Murphy doesn’t have an opportunities to do this to someone else or to do it again.”

Murphy was also involved in a fatal shooting in 2017. The family of the man killed in that shooting, Lawrence Hawkins, filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Murphy last year. The case is still pending in federal court. In the lawsuit it says Hawkins was unarmed and sitting in his parked car in front on his home when he was shot. The lawsuit also centers around alleging that Prichard Police’s policies allowed for this type of excessive force, a nod to the fact that Murphy kept his job after the incident.

LATEST STORIES: