HOLLIDAYSBURG, Pa. (WTAJ) — A new development in the Hollidaysburg homicide investigation was released on Thursday.

UPDATE: On Dec. 23, police identified Kenneth Kim as a suspect in the murder of Tyler Slippy from Nov. 22. Coordination between Blair and Cambria counties saw search warrants issued and when police approached Kim to collect physical evidence, he stole a car and fled to Cambria County.

At that point, law enforcement obtained an arrest warrant for Kim related to the stolen vehicle and found him in Cambria County. Police located Kim and they believe he took his own life.

Cambria County Coroner Jeff Lees confirmed that Kim was spotted in the hallway of the Quality Inn on Route 22 in Ebensburg when he retreated back into his room. That’s when troopers heard a gunshot. SERT was called in and he was ultimately pronounced dead by suicide by Coroner Lees.

Again, District Attorney Weeks states that the investigation shows that Slippy was targeted and there is no threat to the community.

The homicide investigation remains open. Stick with WTAJ as we continue to learn more information.

ORIGINAL STORY:

Blair County District Attorney Pete Weeks indicated the death of 27-year-old Tyler R. Slippy in late November was not a random act of violence. Weeks said Thursday that the safety of the community was not in jeopardy and Slippy was the target when he was killed Nov. 22.

Police will be releasing more information on the investigation later today, Weeks said.

“I’m grateful for the work of Hollidaysburg Borough police and the assistance of the Pennsylvania State police, Cambria County District Attorney’s Office, along with Altoona, Blair Township and Logan Township police department,” Weeks said, adding state police were instrumental in helping Hollidaysburg police from the beginning.

Again, if anyone has any information, or if anyone in the area noticed anything on a security camera they might have, please call the Hollidaysburg Police at 814-695-3711.

THE LATEST: