HARTFORD, Conn. (WTNH) — Connecticut State Police are investigating after an armed man was killed following an officer-involved shooting in Hartford.

Just before 9 p.m. on Saturday, police were called to the area of 25 Gilman St. after a 911 call claimed that an alleged armed man was acting erratically.

Upon arrival, officers found the man, who they said was armed with a rifle and handgun.

Responding officers said the man did not comply with their requests to drop his weapons.

“Officers spent the next several minutes trying to get the individual to put the guns down,” Police Chief Jason Thody said. “At that point, the individual was kind of walking around in the street and through the neighborhoods and in the backyards.”

From there, officers followed the man into a back parking lot in the area of 14-16 Gilman St.

“Two different officers were heard on the body-worn cameras indicating that he was pointing the firearm, that he had started to point the assault rife, at the officers, and at that point, one shot was discharged,” Thody said.

The unidentified man was taken to Hartford Hospital where he died of his injuries on Sunday.

Following the shooting, police were able to determine that the man was armed with an assault rifle with a scope, and a handgun with a flashlight mounted to it.

The officer that fired the shot has been identified as Ashley Martinez, a four-year veteran of the force.

In a statement Monday, the President of Hartford Police Union Officer Anthony Rinaldi said of Officer Martinez, that in the time she has been with the force, she has “been assigned to the Patrol Division and is currently assigned to the Intelligence Division.”

He went on to say, “Officer Martinez has excelled at identifying Violent Offenders. Officer Martinez is devoted to serving the citizens of Hartford. On Saturday, December 26th, 2020, Officer Martinez’s heroic actions saved the lives of innocent citizens and her fellow officers. The Hartford Police Union and all our members stand by Officer Ashley Martinez and her actions on the night of December 26th, 2020.”

Mayor Luke Bronin addressed the city after the incident, saying, “Any loss of life in our community is a tragedy for our community, and our hearts are with the family of the individual who died.”

“Our thoughts are also with officer Martinez,” he added. “No one ever wants to be in the difficult position she was in last night.”

WATCH: Mayor Luke Bronin, Police Chief Jason Thody speak about officer-involved shooting

Thody said officers are cooperating with state police.

“We are cooperating fully with the state as the investigation into this shooting begins, and we will

work with the state to release as much information to the public as we can.

Bronin emphasized that the footage from the body camera Officer Martinez, and several other officers, was wearing would be processed and released.

“I have seen some of the body camera footage, and it’s clear this is a very dangerous and volatile situation,” Bronin said.

Hartford police and Connecticut State Police are working together to make sure the footage is released as soon as possible.

The department said it has begun the investigation in accordance with the State Police’s Eastern District Major Crimes Squad.