Mark Outman was shot and killed during an attempted burglary on Dec. 28. A woman was also shot and critically injured.

Example video title will go here for this video

Next up in 5

DENVER — The Denver District Attorney's Office filed charges, including first-degree murder, against two suspects arrested following a deadly attempted burglary and officer-involved shooting.

Two people, one of whom was a suspect, died and another was left in critical condition following the incident on the morning of Dec. 28 at a home in the Montclair neighborhood.

About 11 a.m. Dec. 28, Denver Police Department (DPD) responded to a call of a burglary in progress in the area of North Monaco Parkway and East 9th Avenue.

DPD, in a news conference on Dec. 29, said two or three suspects had gone to the house wearing reflective vests and pretended to be utility workers to gain access.

The home's owner, Mark Outman, and a woman related to Outman were both shot inside the home, DPD said.

Outman died at the scene after officers found him in front of the home when they arrived, according to DPD. The woman was taken to Denver Health in critical condition. The Denver DA said she survived her injuries.

One of the suspects ran from the area, DPD said. Officers pursued that suspect, later identified as 38-year-old Joshua Hamm, and took him into custody a block away near East 10th Avenue and Magnolia Street.

A second suspect waiting in a Honda Fit sped off, police said. According to arrest affidavits, the driver of the Honda was 44-year-old Tameka Dudley.

Dudley was arrested on Dec. 31.

Meanwhile, officers heard shots being fired north of East 10th Avenue and Magnolia Street and saw a carjacking taking place.

After watching the suspect, believed to have been involved in the burglary, attempt to get into two cars, he was able to get into a third car with a female victim inside, DPD said.

Officers feared the victim would be assaulted or kidnapped, so an officer discharged their weapon, hitting the suspect, DPD said.

The carjacking victim was safely pulled from the car. The suspect was taken to Denver Health where he was pronounced deceased. He was later identified as Larry Hamm, 47.

DPD said Hamm did not have a firearm on him.

No officers were injured in the incidents, DPD said.

DPD said a rifle was found in front of the residence, a handgun was found near the scene and a third firearm was found on Joshua Hamm after his arrest.

DPD said they're not sure why that house was targeted.

Investigators believe the suspects were involved in several residential burglaries in the area, according to DPD.

Hamm and Dudley both face the following charges:

Fist-degree murder

Attempted first-degree murder

Two counts of first-degree robbery

Two counts of aggravated robbery

District Attorney Beth McCann will issue a decision letter on whether the officer-involved shooting was legally justified at a later date, and will hold a community meeting to discuss her conclusion.

>Video below: DPD gives update on shooting investigating