Crime & Safety Armed Robbery Suspect Took Own Life In Chase: Harford Sheriff A Forest Hill man suspected in three Harford County armed robberies died Sunday after a two-county pursuit, officials said. Reply (1)

Authorities said a man suspected the armed robbery at High's (pictured) on Dec. 23 was killed by what investigators believe was a self-inflicted gunshot wound. (Harford County Sheriff's Office) (Shutterstock)

HARFORD COUNTY, MD — Officials said a Forest Hill man took his own life during a police chase Sunday morning that ran from Harford County into Baltimore County.

Thomas R. Hoerr III, 38, was pronounced deceased at a local trauma center from what officials said was a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Hoerr was suspected in three recent armed robberies, according to the Harford County Sheriff's Office:

7-Eleven in the 3500 block of Philadelphia Road in Abingdon on Saturday, Dec. 26

High's in the 2900 block of Churchville Road at 7:55 a.m. on Wednesday, Dec. 23

Armed robbery investigated by the Aberdeen Police Department on Friday, Dec. 25 Officials said search warrants on Hoerr's car and home netted evidence linking him to the crimes.

The warrants were executed after he was pronounced deceased Sunday, according to Cristie Hopkins, spokesperson for the Harford County Sheriff's Office.

Patrol deputies had been conducting surveillance on Hoerr Sunday morning as a person of interest in several commercial robberies when after 7:30 a.m., they saw him get into his 2004 Honda Accord in the 2800 block of Churchville Road. Officials said the car had been spotted leaving at least one of the robberies. When deputies tried to conduct a traffic stop on MD 136 at Route 543, authorities said the car stopped but then sped off.

Hoerr drove south on Route 543 and proceeded onto Route 7/Philadelphia Road, authorities reported. Before 8 a.m., Harford County authorities issued a lookout on Philadelphia Road for the Accord.

Near Philadelphia Road and Campbell Boulevard, Baltimore County police said its officers picked up the chase, following the car onto the inner loop of Interstate 695. On I-695 near Route 702, police said the car began driving erratically, hitting a guardrail several times then stopping before Eastern Avenue. Officials said police broke the window of the car to free the driver, who was suffering from serious injuries. Hoerr was taken to a local trauma center, where authorities said he was pronounced deceased. Police said a weapon was found inside the Honda Accord, and investigators think the driver shot himself and began driving erratically as a result of the self-inflicted wound.

Baltimore County police officers are handling the investigation into the crash. The Aberdeen Police Department and Harford County Sheriff's Office are investigating the robberies.

