NEW YORK (1010 WINS) -- An NYPD officer shot and killed a man in Brooklyn on Tuesday after he attacked a woman and her dog with a machete, authorities said.

Several 911 callers reported a man “acting erratic, laying on the ground, damaging parked vehicles… and chasing people in the area with [a] machete” on Dumont Avenue, near Strauss Street, in Brownsville around 6:10 p.m. on Tuesday, NYPD Chief of Patrol Juanita Holmes said at a news briefing.

WATCH as @NYPDChiefPatrol provides an update on the earlier police involved shooting in the confines of the @NYPD73pct. pic.twitter.com/HkTK054E7Y — NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 30, 2020

At some point around that time, the man attacked a woman as she was walking her dock on Dumont Avenue, leaving her with “deep cuts to her head and both hands,” Holmes said. The man also struck the woman’s dog’s left shoulder with the weapon, she said.

The woman was taken to Kings County Hospital Center in stable condition, according to Holmes. Her dog was taken to a nearby clinic in stable condition, she said.

When police officers arrived at the scene, the man “charged” at them with the machete, Holmes said.

Below is a picture of the weapon recovered. pic.twitter.com/srOkehM1Lw — NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 30, 2020

The officers told the man to drop the weapon, but he refused to do so, at which point one of the officers shot the man once in the chest, she said.

The man was taken to Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead, Holmes said.

Investigators do not believe the man knew the woman he attacked, she said.

Police didn’t immediately release the man’s name or age or provide any additional details about the incident. An investigation is ongoing.

Due to a police involved shooting, please avoid the area of Dumont Ave & Strauss St in Brooklyn (@NYPD73Pct).



Expect heavy delays & a large police presence in the area. Plan an alternate route if possible. pic.twitter.com/JMK5ZOU00r — NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews) December 29, 2020

The fatal shooting marked the second police-involved shooting to take place in Brooklyn in as many days. On Monday, an officer shot and wounded a man after he rushed toward several officers as they were arresting another man for gun possession.