VOLUSIA COUNTY, Fla. — A family is mourning the loss of their two children after a horrific crash in Volusia County last night.

Deputies were following a carjacking suspect on I-95 South, when he turned around on the highway and crashed head-on into the victims.

The siblings had just left the Christmas lights at the Speedway. Domynick Mills, 21, and 18-year-old Danycka Milis died in the crash.

Two other teens were taken to the hospital.

“I don’t know what you say to the family,” Sheriff Mike Chitwood said. “They have a great night at Christmas lights and their kids are murdered – and that’s what they were: Murdered.”

Read: Stimulus checks could be deposited Tuesday night; paper checks to be mailed Wednesday

The sheriff says the suspect was traveling over 100 mph when the crash occurred. It started in Flagler County where a license plate reader got a hit on the suspect car as being stolen during an armed robbery of a pizza delivery driver in Orlando on Sunday.

Around 7 p.m., the suspect made a U-turn on 95. Deputies discontinued pursuit and attempted to stop oncoming southbound traffic. The suspect headed north in the southbound lanes and hit an oncoming vehicle head-on in the area of exit 260A. FHP is also on scene. More info to come. — Volusia Sheriff (@VolusiaSheriff) December 30, 2020

He sped away and made it to Volusia County, where deputies also tried to stop him.

Troopers said at around 7 p.m., deputies saw the carjacker making a U-turn on I-95, then began driving north in the southbound lanes.

Watch: Here’s where to find the COVID-19 vaccine in your county

The pursuit was called off, and the crash happened sometime later, troopers said.

FHP said the suspect died in the crash, along with a 21-year-old man and a 18-year-old woman. The 21-year-old and 18-year-old were brother and sister, according to officials.

A 13-year-old boy and 17-year-old girl survived the crash. They are in stable condition, according to troopers.

State officials have yet to name the suspect who was also killed, but Chitwood said he has 50 prior arrests and no driver’s license, that he’s been incarcerated eight times in state prison.

“This is his criminal history and he’s out walking among us,” Chitwood said.

Click here to support the family’s GoFundMe.

Update from @FHPOrlando



At this time, the deceased fleeing driver has not been positively identified.



The deceased in the 2nd vehicle were brother (age 21) &sister (age 18).



Survivors in the 2nd vehicle (13-year-old boy & 17-year-old girl) are in stable condition this morning — Volusia Sheriff (@VolusiaSheriff) December 30, 2020

Here’s a look at the fatal crash on I-95 near I-4. You’ll see the two vehicles near the end. @FHP says an armed carjacker was driving north on southbound I-95 and hit an oncoming driver. pic.twitter.com/OKBrNnmQ6i — Megan Cruz (@MeganWFTV) December 30, 2020

Coronavirus live updates: COVID-19 variant from UK found in Colorado

Cox Media Group