Officials familiar with the matter said Senior Trooper August 'Gus' McKay shot himself after authorities arrived at his Washington Parish home

A Louisiana State Police trooper died Wednesday in an apparent suicide as his colleagues were searching his home as part of a criminal investigation.

Three law enforcement officials familiar with the matter said Senior Trooper August 'Gus' McKay shot himself after authorities arrived at his Washington Parish home. The officials were not authorized to discuss McKay´s death and spoke to the Associated Press on the condition of anonymity.

State Police Superintendent Col. Lamar Davis sent an email to troopers advising them of McKay's death and noting he was under criminal investigation at the time but the agency declined to comment further on specifics of either the death or the probe.

Sources familiar with the incident said that investigators had served a search warrant at the home tied to drugs. McKay is said to have shot himself when additional staff came to put him on administrative leave, WBRZ reports.

'In this time of need, please join me in prayer for Trooper McKay, his family, and his colleagues throughout the LSP family,' Davis wrote.

The Washington Parish Coroner's Office said it was investigating the cause and manner of death.

Sources familiar with the incident said that investigators had served a search warrant at the home tied to drugs. McKay is said to have shot himself when additional staff came to put him on administrative leave

State Police Superintendent Col. Lamar Davis sent an email to troopers advising them of McKay's death and noting he was under criminal investigation but the agency declined to comment further on specifics of either the death or the probe

McKay made headlines this year after State Police apologized for failing to discipline him after his Apple Watch recorded him using a racial slur and he inadvertently forwarded it to a black colleague.

Gov. John Bel Edwards said it was 'unacceptable' State Police failed to discipline McKay in the 2017 incident, adding he was 'appalled that such disgusting language was used by a Louisiana State Police trooper.'

McKay told investigators at the time that 'the stars couldn't have lined up any worse. ... It would be like me accidentally sending a picture of my naked wife to someone.'

McKay made headlines this year after State Police apologized for failing to discipline him after his Apple Watch recorded him using a racial slur and he inadvertently forwarded it to a Black colleague. Gov. John Bel Edwards (pictured) said it was 'unacceptable' State Police failed to discipline McKay in the 2017 incident

State Police brass said McKay's use of a racial slur was an isolated incident. But an AP investigation found a dozen more instances over a three-year period in which employees forwarded racist emails on their official accounts with subject lines like 'PROUD TO BE WHITE,' or demeaned minority colleagues with names including 'Hershey's Kiss,' 'Django' and 'Egg Roll.'

Mike McClanahan of the NAACP said that he wished that McKay would have been a 'little bit stronger and played it out' regarding the trooper's suicide.

'He should have his day in court. If he did not do that, we should know the system works. It works for the same people he arrests, so it should work for him to. We didn't get that opportunity because he chose another way out.'