Staff Report

The Ledger

LAKELAND — Officials are still investigating the June 5 traffic crash at the intersection of East Memorial Boulevard (U.S. 92) and Lakeshore Drive that resulted in two fatalities.

According to a release from the Lakeland Police Department, on June 5, LPD Officer Simon, while waiting to turn off Lakeland Hills Blvd., observed a tan Cadillac sedan commit a minor traffic infraction, and smelled the odor of what he suspected to be burning cannabis as the Cadillac passed. Officer Simon did a U-turn to follow the Cadillac onto Tropical Way. The Cadillac was spotted parked at a residence and as the officer drove adjacent to the Cadillac in an effort to obtain tag information, the Cadillac quickly backed out of the driveway, narrowly missing the officer. The driver then began the sequence of events that led to a fatal traffic crash on Lakeshore Dr. at Memorial Blvd.

» WATCH: Dashcam footage of the fatal high-speed crash

As part of the on-going investigation of this incident the Lakeland Police Department continues to review evidence and seek additional witness statements to help explain why Cleon Nathaniel Truedell, 32, of Plant City, intentionally backed his vehicle toward the marked police vehicle and then began to flee in a reckless manner. Police Dash Cam video demonstrates the aggressive and dangerous manner which the suspect fled from the trailing officer before a traffic stop could be attempted. Truedell continued accelerating away from the officer ultimately reaching speeds approaching 100 mph at impact.

Linel Marie Vega-Ortiz, 38, of Lakeland, driving a 2017 Mitsubishi sedan, was killed in the other vehicle.

The investigation has since determined that Truedell was operating on a revoked driver’s license since 2005, the vehicle contained a trafficking amount of suspected methamphetamine, and he had an extensive criminal history involving Burglary, Grand Theft Motor Vehicle, Battery, Stalking, False ID to Law Enforcement, Domestic Violence, Driving with License Suspended or Revoked, Resisting an Officer, Possession of Cocaine, Possession of Drug Paraphernalia, Possession of Cannabis, Hit and Run Accident, and Destruction of Evidence.

Police continue to seek any additional information from witnesses that might provide information as to the whereabouts of Truedell prior to this event that might explain his actions that caused this tragic event. Anyone with information is encouraged to contact LPD Traffic Investigations at 834-6900.