AUSTIN (Talk1370.com) -- One person is dead after pointing a weapon at an off-duty Austin Police officer early Tuesday morning in southeast Austin.

The incident happened in the 2500 block of Wickersham Lane, just southeast of Oltorf Street and South Pleasant Valley Road.

Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said an off-duty APD officer was returning to the neighborhood around 12:30 a.m. Tuesday in his personal vehicle, when a man cut him off while driving south on Wickersham. According to the off-duty officer, the man pointed a weapon, prompting the officer to shoot at the man. The officer followed the man down Wickersham while calling 911, and other officers arrived on the scene.

Chief Manley provides briefing on January 5th officer involved shooting. https://t.co/wBVF9E0iDR — Austin Police Department (@Austin_Police) January 5, 2021

Manley said body camera footage picks up when the on-duty officers arrived on the scene, after both vehicles came to a stop near Oltorf Street.

Both the off-duty officer and the other officers gave commands to the man, in English and in Spanish, to get out of his vehicle, telling him to put his hands in the air and get away from the car.

The man got out, walked around to the rear of the vehicle, and opened the rear passenger door. At that point, one of the on-duty officers fired his gun, striking the man.

“As he reaches into the vehicle the on-duty Austin police officer fired shots at him, striking him at that moment and then he goes down,” Manley said.

Manley said the man was pronounced deceased at the scene. A woman in the car, said to be in her 30s, was also hit and transported to a nearby hospital in stable condition. An infant was also in the car, and was unharmed.

Officers did find a weapon in the car, Manley said.

"As I mentioned, the first part of this incident involved an off-duty officer so there was no body worn camera," Manley said. "So we’re asking anyone that was in this neighborhood that saw any part of this interaction to please call us and identify yourself so we can interview you. If you have video of this interaction, that will be very important with our ongoing investigation as there are a few right now."

The two officers involved will be placed on administrative duty, Manley said. One is a 5-year veteran of the department; the other has been on the force for two years. No officers were injured during the incident.