Police responded at 1:43 p.m. to a 911 call reporting a robbery at Indulge!, a longtime candy store in a busy commercial/residential block of shops, salons, and restaurants located near the MBTA stop in Newton Highlands.

The fatal shots were fired by Newton police officers in a common area on the third floor of the building, after a shot from a beanbag gun and a Taser failed to subdue the man, Middlesex District Attorney Marian T. Ryan said at a news conference Tuesday evening.

NEWTON — A 28-year-old man who walked into a candy store on Lincoln Street armed with a knife was fatally shot by police Tuesday afternoon after he tried to flee upstairs, where he lived in an apartment, officials said.

Advertisement

Officers arrived to find the man, who was not identified, with a knife, Ryan said.

Officers requested backup and were joined by Newton police and two state troopers, she said. Newton officers fired a beanbag shotgun and then State Police used a Taser in an effort to disarm the man, according to Ryan.

Get Breaking News Alerts Stay up-to-date with important news developments, delivered right to your inbox. Enter Email Sign Up

“Both of those uses of nonlethal force were unsuccessful in subduing the suspect,” Ryan said.

Colonel Christopher Mason, commander of the State Police, stressed that “numerous de-escalation attempts were made” before officers used lethal force. “Unfortunately, none of those were successful.”

Two Newton officers shot the man, who was taken to Newton-Wellesley Hospital and pronounced dead, Ryan said. Several officers were also taken to hospitals, but none were seriously injured, she said.

Mason said two state troopers went to Newton-Wellesley for evaluation, “both for stress evaluation, and one for persistent ringing in the ear due to his proximity to the discharge of the firearms.”

Ryan said the man who was killed was not being identified Tuesday pending the notification of his family.

“We are still in the very early stages of this investigation,” she said.

Advertisement

At the news conference, Mayor Ruthanne Fuller of Newton offered condolences to the man’s family.

“Our hearts go out to the family of the young man that was lost,” she said.

Indulge! has been a fixture in Newton Highlands since owner Linda Gulman opened the candy shop in 1991. No one answered the telephone at the shop Tuesday.

Ryan praised Gulman during the news conference.

“The owner certainly kept a cool head in a difficult situation,” Ryan said.

Jeff Carter, property manager of the building that includes Indulge!, said the man had lived in an apartment above the store for about two years.

Carter said he heard that the man had wanted to show a woman in the shop something. But the woman, Carter said, apparently called police because the man had a knife.

Carter was later called to the scene, he said, and gave police the keys to the man’s apartment.

Dozens of Newton and State Police were at the scene Tuesday afternoon near the Newton Highlands MBTA stop, and investigators had taped off a section of Lincoln Street between Walnut and Hartford streets.

Around 3 p.m., a person was taken out of the building on a stretcher and placed into a waiting ambulance.

Police could be seen entering and exiting the front door of Indulge!, and investigators could be seen in the open windows of a second-floor apartment near the store.

Across the street, Fernando Fierimonte, 64, the owner of Anthony Andrew Jewelers, said he saw police cruisers near the candy store around 2:30 p.m. He said he went outside to see what was happening, and described hearing six loud gunshots.

Advertisement

His business has been in the neighborhood for about 20 years, which is normally a calm area. He praised the owner of Indulge!, who he knows well.

“It was a typical Tuesday in the Highlands,” he said. “It was disturbing to hear about this happening.”

Fernanda Lopez, an employee of Cacao, a chocolate and nut shop on Lincoln Street, said the staff “didn’t see anything” at the time of the shooting, other than “just a lot of police outside” who were sealing off the area to pedestrians.

Hours after the shooting, police continued to have a heavy presence in the neighborhood. A cruiser blocked the roadway near the scene until about 7:30 p.m., until the officer drove away.

Nearby, a group of about a half-dozen or so officers stood outside of the candy shop, where another cruiser was also parked.

It’s relatively uncommon for Massachusetts police to shoot people, but the state saw at least 17 police shootings of civilians last year, compared to nine in 2018. A 2016 Globe Spotlight report found between 2005 and 2015, there were an average of 15 lethal and nonlethal shootings by police annually.

Last May, there were nonfatal police shootings in Braintree, Haverhill, Pittsfield, and Boston. In November, police shot suspects in another four communities in a span of just 10 days, killing two. Three of those communities — Winchester, Everett, and Malden — are also in Middlesex County.

Advertisement

Mike Bello, Travis Andersen, and Leslie Anderson of the Globe staff contributed to this report.

John Hilliard can be reached at john.hilliard@globe.com. Jeremy C. Fox can be reached at jeremy.fox@globe.com. Follow him @jeremycfox.