Members of the Farmington Police Department, New Mexico State Police and San Juan County Sheriff’s Office fired at least one round at the suspect, according to a New Mexico State Police press release.

The deceased male and other involved parties were not identified by law enforcement.

The suspect was seen pointing the handgun at the head of the man in the driver’s seat when law enforcement fired upon the suspect.

FARMINGTON — Police say the male battery suspect who was shot and killed by law enforcement officers on Dec. 14 in Farmington had beaten a woman with a handgun that morning. He was shot when he pointed the firearm at a man’s head during a police standoff following a vehicle pursuit.

An unidentified man in the front passenger seat of a green SUV died in the roadway of West Murray Drive in front of Life Care Center of Farmington.

Members of the Farmington Police Department, New Mexico State Police and San Juan County Sheriff’s Office fired at least one round at the suspect, according to a New Mexico State Police press release.

Another man sitting in the vehicle's driver's seat during the shooting had minor injuries and was transported from the scene by paramedics.

PREVIOUS:Person shot and killed by law enforcement in Farmington on West Murray Drive

The deceased male and other involved parties were not identified by law enforcement. Police did not disclose the number of shots fired, or how many of those shots struck the suspect.

"We recognize the impact this situation has on the community and everyone involved," Farmington Police Chief Steve Hebbe said in a statement. "(Farmington police) is working cooperatively with New Mexico State Police and the San Juan County Sheriff's Office to complete a thorough investigation."

The investigation into the suspect started around 9:23 a.m. when deputies responded to a 911 hang-up call at a residence on County Road 3939, east of Farmington, according to the press release.

A woman said her husband kicked in the door of the residence and beat her with a handgun. He left the residence in a green Ford SUV with the handgun.

The press release states a deputy and state police officer later saw the SUV on Wildflower Parkway near Murray Drive and attempted a traffic stop.

The traffic stop failed, and the SUV led law enforcement on a pursuit.

MORE:Colorado man arrested, accused of seventh DWI charge

The SUV later stopped on West Murray Drive in front of Life Care Center and the suspect barricaded himself inside the vehicle.

Four occupants were observed inside the SUV. A male and female passenger got out of the vehicle as a male passenger moved from a rear seat into the driver’s seat, the release stated. The suspect was seen pointing the handgun at the head of the man in the driver’s seat, when law enforcement fired upon the suspect around 11:33 a.m.

The man in the driver’s seat then exited the vehicle. A knife and handgun were found in the suspect's lap.

A state police officer has been placed on administrative leave as the shooting is investigated.

This is the first multi-agency law enforcement shooting in San Juan County since Aug. 26, 2017, when William Wilson was shot and killed by gunshots fired by a deputy and state police officer at Citizens Bank branch at 4220 Hudson St. in Farmington.

Wilson fired a revolver at the state police officer after being placed in handcuffs.

Joshua Kellogg covers breaking news for The Daily Times. He can be reached at 505-564-4627 or via email at jkellogg@daily-times.com.

Support local journalism with a digital subscription: http://bit.ly/2I6TU0e