MARION COUNTY, S.C. (WMBF) – Officials say two people, including a Marion County deputy, were killed in a crash late Wednesday night.

The Marion County Sheriff’s Office later identified the fallen deputy as Jonathan David Price.

According to Master Trooper Brian Lee with the South Carolina Highway Patrol, a 2018 Dodge Charger on Jackson Road collided with a 2008 Mercury Grand Marquis traveling southbound on Maiden Down Road. The crash happened around 10:50 p.m., Lee added.

The driver of the Dodge Charger died at a local hospital, while the other driver died at the scene, according to troopers.

Price, 29, joined the Marion County Sheriff’s Office in September 2020 and had previously served with the Dillon Police Department, officials say. He leaves behind a wife and three small children.

“We ask you to keep all of us along with David’s family in your thoughts and prayers in the days to come,” the sheriff’s office wrote on Facebook.

The Dillon Police Department also shared its memories of Price on its Facebook page.

“David began his career in law enforcement with our department and served three years with us,” the department wrote. “He was a dedicated and hard-working officer who served the citizens of Dillon with pride. We will remember the memories made with him and always consider him a part of our family.”

The accident remains under investigation by the SCHP MAIT Team.

It marks the second time in 13 months the Marion County Sheriff’s Office has lost a deputy in a crash. Deputy Michael Latu was killed after he lost control of his vehicle and struck a column on the Highway 501-76 overpass.

“It’s like reliving a nightmare,” said Sheriff Brian Wallace. “I thought I’d never have to notify another family member, a wife, a mother late at night letting them know their son, their husband had been killed in a tragic accident. It’s like living it all over again.”

Wallace added there are three ways to describe who Jonathan Price was.

“He was Christian, he was a family man, and he was a good police officer,” he said.

As the Marion County Sheriff’s Office moves forward without their fallen deputy, Wallace said they’ll continue to lift up the families of the lives lost in the tragic accident.

“It’s painful for us, and our prayers got out to our deputy’s family, the Price family, and our prayers go out to the other driver’s family during this difficult time,” he said.

Copyright 2021 WMBF. All rights reserved.