Gaithersburg police say the suspect died from his injuries at the scene.

Example video title will go here for this video

GAITHERSBURG, Md. — The Gaithersburg Police Department is currently investigating a fatal shooting by its officers Friday evening that has left one man dead.

According to police, the shooting happened shortly before 6 p.m. in the area of 12 S Frederick Avenue. Gaithersburg Police Chief Mark Sroka said during a press conference Friday evening that officers encountered an armed suspect who displayed a handgun, resulting in officers opening fire.

The man that was killed is 24-year-old Kwamena Ocran, according to police.

Montgomery County Police, who are conducting the investigation, said preliminary information indicates that four Gaithersburg Police Department officers in plain clothes approached Ocran after getting a report of a man with a handgun. They identified themselves as police officers, and Ocran ran away on foot. The officers chased after him and the shooting occurred, police said in a release late Friday. It's not clear how many of the four officers opened fire. Montgomery County Police investigators say the officers provided life-saving aid, but were not successful.

Ocran died from his injuries at the scene. Sroka confirmed to WUSA9 that no officers were injured during the incident. A handgun was recovered from the scene.

The Gaithersburg Police Department officers involved in the shooting are identified as Sergeant Willie Delgado, a 17-year veteran of the Department, Corporal Larbi Dakkouni, an 8-year veteran of the Department, and Officers James Doyle and Kyle Khuen, both 5-year veterans of the Department. All four officers are currently assigned to the Special Operations Bureau and work in the Street Crimes Unit.

As is protocol, all four officers have been placed on paid administrative leave, said Montgomery County Police in a statement on Saturday

The investigation is ongoing. Anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to contact the Montgomery County Police - Major Crimes Division at 240-773-5070. Callers may remain anonymous.

This is a developing story that will be updated once more information is available. Stay with WUSA9 for the latest.