A gang associate who gunned down a rookie Burbank police officer nearly nine years ago pleaded guilty Tuesday to first-degree murder and was immediately sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.

David A. Garcia, 28, would have faced a possible death sentence had he stood trial for the Nov. 15, 2003, slaying of 26-year-old Officer Matthew Pavelka, who was the first Burbank police officer killed in the line of duty.

“The practical impact is you will never be released from prison. … This will totally and completely end the case,” Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Robert J. Perry said of the plea agreement.

Garcia, dressed in orange jail clothes, repeatedly answered, “Yes, your honor,” when asked if he understood the terms.

Garcia initially eluded arrest after a fierce gunbattle in the parking lot of a Ramada Inn near Burbank Airport that left Pavelka and Garcia’s 25-year-old accomplice, Ramon Aranda, dead. Another officer, Gregory Campbell, suffered gunshot wounds to the stomach and neck, but survived.

The fatal encounter began when Campbell saw two men sitting in a car without license plates in an area “then known for drug and gang-related activity,” police said. Campbell radioed for help, and Pavelka responded.

Garcia and Aranda immediately opened fire on the officers.

About 200 officers – from the Burbank, Glendale and Los Angeles police departments, the FBI and the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department – followed up on leads on Garcia’s possible whereabouts after the shootout, resulting in his arrest on Thanksgiving Day 2003 in Tijuana.

The first-degree murder charge to which Garcia pleaded guilty included the special circumstance allegations of murder of a peace officer engaged in the performance of his duties and murder to avoid arrest.

Garcia also pleaded guilty to the attempted murder of Campbell, along with one count each of transportation of methamphetamine and possession of a silencer and two counts each of possession of a machine gun and possession of an assault weapon that were found in a car and his home.

Garcia also admitted personally discharging a semiautomatic firearm, along with an allegation the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang.

“I have no hesitation in accepting his plea agreement,” the judge said.

As his son’s killer was turned to look at him, Michael Pavelka said, “David, your actions ended the life of a wonderful young man and tore my family apart.”

The officer’s father said the family still grieves his son’s death, noting that “a deep sadness lives in our hearts every day.”

One of Garcia’s attorneys, Frank DiSabatino, said outside court that it was a “sad day for everybody involved in this for both families.”

District Attorney Steve Cooley issued a statement saying his office was “pleased the defendant has admitted responsibility for these heinous crimes. We hope this resolution provides some measure of justice for the brutal murder of Officer Matthew Pavelka and the attempted murder of Officer Gregory Campbell.”

In a statement, the Burbank Police Department said the sentencing “brings to a close a nearly decade-long quest for justice.”

Garcia is still awaiting trial in U.S. District Court on a 2005 indictment involving alleged street gang activity. The judge noted that Garcia can withdraw his plea if federal prosecutors seek the death penalty against him in connection with that case.

Garcia – who was 19 at the time of the crime – was turned over to U.S. authorities at the U.S-Mexico border after being taken into custody and has remained jailed without bail since then.

Cooley said shortly after the arrest that the Mexican government decided to treat Garcia “as an undesirable, somebody they wanted to deport and get out of the country” because he is a U.S. national.

Daily News Staff Writer Eric Hartley contributed to this report.