ROBESON COUNTY, N.C. (WMBF) - Authorities are investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting in Robeson County.

The Robeson County Sheriff’s Office said Sunday that deputies responded to the area of Janice Drive in Pembroke in reference to a 911 hang-up call at around 9:40 p.m. Saturday.

The caller was disconnected before dispatch was able to re-establish contact with the caller saying that they were going to “bled out.” before disconnecting again.

At the scene, deputies made contact with 46-year-old Matthew Oxendine, of Red Springs. Deputies said Oxendine was driving a vehicle on Janice Drive and was rushing the motor before backing it into the driveway and set fire to the headliner while still inside.

Authorities then attempted to get Oxendine out of the vehicle while calling the fire department to assist. Oxendine allegedly continued to make statements to deputies about bleeding out and made threats to officers. He then informed deputies that he had a weapon and previously served time in prison for shooting at law enforcement. Officials were able later to confirm he served three years in prison for assaulting an officer with a firearm in 2009.

Deputies said SWAT operators later arrived and also attempted to get Oxendine to exit the vehicle. As deputies observed fire and smoke from the car and Oxendine pointed what appeared to be a firearm in the direction of SWAT as they approached. Oxendine was then shot and deputies called for EMS.

The sheriff’s office says deputies also retrieved fire extinguishers and were able to put out the fire. Oxendine was pronounced dead at the scene.

Officials said the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation was contacted immediately and is leading the investigation, which is the normal procedure during officer-involved shootings. All officers involved will also be placed on administrative leave, according to the sheriff’s office.

Sheriff Burnis Wilkins asked for prayers for the victim’s family, as well as the deputies involved.

Stay with WMBF News for updates.

Copyright 2021 WMBF. All rights reserved.