This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

LAKEWOOD, Colo. (KDVR) — One person has died after being shot by police in Lakewood who were responding to trespassing and robbery calls.

The officer-involved shooting happened around noon near the intersection of Colfax and Garrison.

Update: Lakewood officers were responding to trespassing and robbery calls when they spotted the suspect, who they say pointed a gun at officers. Investigators are trying to determine how many officers fired at the suspect, who died at the scene ⁦@KDVR⁩ ⁦⁦ pic.twitter.com/udIoQJLxWA — Deborah Takahara (@debtakahara) January 12, 2021

Police said they were initially called to a car dealership where a man was trying to get into cars. When they arrived, there were similar reports from the parking lot of a neighboring Safeway.

Officers spotted a man matching the suspect’s description and chased him into a residential neighborhood where police say he pulled a gun on them.

“That suspect was armed, that suspect did produce a handgun, did point it at agents. That’s when the suspect was shot and killed by agents. A gun was recovered at the scene,” Lakewood police spokesperson John Romero said.

The suspect was described as a white man in his 20s or 30s, but his identity has not been released.

SkyFOX flew over the scene and captured video of several police officers gathering outside multiple businesses and residences in the area. Officers had crime scene tape up around a Big O Tires location as well as at least one residence.

No officers were injured.

Large police presence at Colfax and Glen Dee Dr in Lakewood after an officer involved shooting. ⁦Working on finding out more information ⁦@KDVR⁩ ⁦@channel2kwgn⁩ pic.twitter.com/tPkmq464Tz — Deborah Takahara (@debtakahara) January 12, 2021

Lakewood Police are responding to an officer involved shooting near the intersection of Colfax and Garrison. Media please stage at Safeway. — Lakewood Police (@LakewoodPDCO) January 12, 2021