BILOXI, Miss. (WLOX) - The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation has released new details surrounding a fatal deputy-involved shooting at a Biloxi courthouse on Jan. 15.

Harrison County Coroner Brian Switzer identified the man killed as 48-year-old Reginald Johnson of Biloxi. He was pronounced at the scene and was sent for an autopsy on Tuesday.

The incident happened at the Harrison County Courthouse on Lameuse Street.

Harrison County Sheriff Peterson confirmed that the shooting involved both the Biloxi Police Department and the Harrison County Sheriff’s Department. However, the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation is the lead investigating agency.

According to MBI, a Harrison County Sheriff’s deputy received information of a disturbance taking place outside the courthouse. Authorities said the deputy made contact with Johnson, who displayed a knife and began to advance on the deputy. The deputy discharged his service weapon striking Johnson, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

The deputy was treated at Merit Health in Biloxi, stitched up from the wounds and released late Friday night to go home.

#BREAKING Looks like a security guard was being wheeled out of the Harrison County Courthouse on a stretcher following a fatal shooting outside the building.



The guard looked to be injured in his left leg. @WLOX pic.twitter.com/ooUO35QXEZ — Andrés Fuentes (@news_fuentes) January 15, 2021

Harrison County Board of Supervisors Public Information Officer Jeff Clark confirmed that the courthouse was under a brief lockdown while authorities responded. Also, Harrison County Coroner Brian Switzer confirmed that he was called to the courthouse.

MBI Special Agents, assisted by the MBI Crime Scene Unit, are gathering evidence as part of this ongoing investigation and will share their findings with the local District Attorney’s office. It also needs to be noted that MBI does not identify the officers involved in these types of incidents.

This story will be updated once more information is available.

Copyright 2021 WLOX. All rights reserved.