This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

MARION, Ind. — A Grant County Sheriff’s Department deputy shot and killed a suspect after the man allegedly tried to run him over with a vehicle Sunday.

Grant County Sheriff’s Lieutenant Matthew Sneed was the first arriving officer investigating a domestic situation involving a stabbing at a home in the 3200 block of S. Central Avenue in Marion.

As Sneed walked toward the house, Daniel Young, 25, Marion, allegedly drove a Honda Civic toward the deputy, causing him to jump on the hood of the moving vehicle, according to an Indiana State Police news release.

Young then continued driving with Sneed on the hood. That’s when the deputy shot multiple rounds from his handgun through the Honda’s windshield. Young was struck by multiple bullets, and the car rolled to a stop.

Young was transported to Marion General Hospital, where he later died. Deputy Sneed was not injured.

“This is a quiet neighborhood,” said a neighbor who asked not to be identified. “Things like this don’t happen around us, so it was kind of shocking.”

Further investigation revealed that during the initial domestic disturbance, a 53-year-old man was stabbed several times with a knife. The man was able to walk out of the house before being transported to Marion General Hospital and then transported to a Fort Wayne Hospital.

Young is suspected of stabbing the man several times.

Indiana State Police are investigating the officer-involved shooting at the request of the Grant County Sheriff’s Dept.

“Our officers and detectives and crime scene investigators will go through the crime scene, interview witnesses and do everything very, as thorough as they can,” said ISP Sgt. Tony Slocum.

Slocum says there were several other people in the house when the incident occurred. Statements from those witnesses and other evidence gathered at the scene will be compiled into a report for the Grant County Prosecutor.

“At that point, it’s up to the prosecutor to decide if the officer involved in the shooting was justified in his actions,” Slocum said.

Having a third party conduct the investigation is crucial to producing an impartial report for the prosecutor to examine, Slocum added.

“It is a police officer and we understand that,” Slocum said. “But for us it’s just another investigation trying to do the best job we can for the citizens here in Indiana.”