The Sacramento County Sheriff's Office is investigating a deadly shooting and standoff that happened Tuesday night in the Foothill Farms area of the county. Deputies were originally called to the apartment complex in the 5400 block of Auburn Boulevard to help with an argument between a mother and a son. Shortly after leaving, deputies were called back. At some point after hearing gunshots, deputies fired their weapons as well. The circumstances are not yet clear. Video shared with KCRA 3 shows deputies circling around an apartment complex, and several gunshots can be heard in the background.About 20 minutes later, the man inside surrendered to a hostage negotiation team. Inside, deputies found the man's mother dead from a gunshot wound.Investigators spent the night at the scene and are still working to determine exactly what happened. The man taken into custody is in his 40s. He was taken to the hospital with some sort of head injury. It has been a difficult week for the sheriff's office, which is mourning the shooting death of one of its deputies. "There has been uncommon problems in the last several days with shootings," said Sgt. Rod Grassmann. "Certainly something that we don't normally experience, and with the loss of one of our deputies."This is a developing story. Stay with KCRA 3 for the latest.

The Sacramento County Sheriff's Office is investigating a deadly shooting and standoff that happened Tuesday night in the Foothill Farms area of the county.

Deputies were originally called to the apartment complex in the 5400 block of Auburn Boulevard to help with an argument between a mother and a son.

Advertisement

Shortly after leaving, deputies were called back. At some point after hearing gunshots, deputies fired their weapons as well. The circumstances are not yet clear.

Video shared with KCRA 3 shows deputies circling around an apartment complex, and several gunshots can be heard in the background.

About 20 minutes later, the man inside surrendered to a hostage negotiation team. Inside, deputies found the man's mother dead from a gunshot wound.

Investigators spent the night at the scene and are still working to determine exactly what happened. The man taken into custody is in his 40s. He was taken to the hospital with some sort of head injury.

It has been a difficult week for the sheriff's office, which is mourning the shooting death of one of its deputies.

"There has been uncommon problems in the last several days with shootings," said Sgt. Rod Grassmann. "Certainly something that we don't normally experience, and with the loss of one of our deputies."

This is a developing story. Stay with KCRA 3 for the latest.