The Weld County Critical Incident Response Team is investigating a Greeley police officer-involved shooting incident that occurred Tuesday afternoon in Evans.

An unidentified adult male died at the Loaf ‘N Jug convenience store at 3200 23rd Avenue in Evans after leading Greeley police on a brief chase into Evans, according to information released Tuesday evening from CIRT through the Weld County Sheriff’s Office.

The incident began at 2:34 p.m. when Greeley police officers observed a wanted man leaving a house in Greeley. The adult man, who is not being identified until notification of next of kin, was on parole and had active felony warrants.

Officers observed the man enter a car and attempted to pull him over at Reservoir Road and 23rd Avenue in Greeley. The man refused to pull over and led police on a short brief chase to the area of 23rd Avenue and 32nd Street, where the man’s vehicle was involved in a crash.

He fled the scene on foot, running to the Loaf ‘N Jug where — armed with a handgun — the man attempted a carjacking of a vehicle at the gas station.

Pursuing officers gave several commands for the man to surrender, but the man refused to comply and the officer-involved shooting followed. The man was pronounced deceased at the scene.

No officers and no members of the public were injured during the chase or subsequent shooting.

The man also was involved this afternoon in a carjacking on Interstate 25 in Mead.

At 3:16 p.m. Tuesday, Greeley police posted a message on Facebook warning of a “heavy police presence” in the area of 32nd Street and 23rd Avenue. People were advised to stay clear and find alternate routes if possible.

Evans police at 4:10 p.m. made a similar post, adding there was “no danger to the public.”

At 4:26 p.m., Greeley police followed their initial post, acknowledging the CIRT had been activated to investigate an officer-involved shooting at the same location. Police again said there was “no danger to the public” and asked people to continue to stay clear of the area.

The CIRT update Tuesday evening indicated no additional details would be released for remainder of Tuesday.

— Greeley Tribune reporter Anne Delaney contributed to this report