West Chicago police shot and killed a suspect for the first time in city history in a late-night confrontation with a knife-wielding man, officials said.

Patrick Switzer, 44, whose most recent permanent address was in South Elgin, was shot several times Monday night when he charged officers with a knife after a six-block foot pursuit through downtown, police said Tuesday.

Advertisement

His brother Michael said Switzer had a drug and alcohol problem that had landed him in jail more than once.

"Pat had a very miserable life," said Michael Switzer, who lives in Rockford.

Advertisement

West Chicago police said they had several run-ins with Switzer in the last three to four months.

The shooting remains under investigation, but Police Chief Gerald Mourning said Switzer "put our officers in a position where basically they had no choice" but to shoot.

Officers responding to a domestic disturbance call at 11:03 p.m. found Switzer quarreling with his girlfriend inside a home in the 400 block of Main Street, an investigator said. Switzer came outside with a knife and began quarreling with police in the street, Mourning said. Officers repeatedly told him to drop the knife, but Switzer ignored them and began walking quickly away, Mourning said.

In the subsequent chase, Switzer repeatedly stopped and turned to threaten officers with the knife, Mourning said. Near Arbor Avenue and East McConnell Avenue, he turned again and charged the officers while repeating his threats, Mourning said. Two veteran police officers opened fire at Switzer, he said.

Switzer was transported to Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield, where he was pronounced dead of multiple gunshot wounds in the abdomen and thigh at 12:59 a.m. Tuesday, a coroner's office spokeswoman said.

Michael Switzer said he did not believe his brother was armed when he charged police.

"Do I believe he charged them? Probably," he said. "Do I think the cop was right? Probably.

"Is there going to be a lawsuit? Yes. He has nine brothers and sisters and two children that want some answers."

Advertisement

Mourning said the two officers have temporarily been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated by his department, the DuPage County Major Crimes Task Force and the state's attorney's office.