COLLEGE STATION, Texas (KBTX) - College Station police have identified the man who was fatally shot early Thursday morning during a traffic stop on the Highway 6 feeder road near University Drive. He was Ryan D. Stallings, 33, of College Station.

UPDATE: College Station Police have identified the man who was fatally shot this morning during a traffic stop.



He is Ryan D. Stallings, 33, of College Station.



Other details are updated on this page: https://t.co/QEXBAGPyiS pic.twitter.com/j4ZLiIWBOf — Rusty Surette (@KBTXRusty) January 21, 2021

According to police, Stallings was a suspect in a long-term investigation.

On Thursday morning, investigators believe Stallings was driving a vehicle that was transporting large amounts of drugs. CSPD officers assisted by Texas Department of Public Safety troopers stopped the vehicle around 1:00 a.m. on the northbound Highway 6 feeder road, just south of University Drive.

“During the contact, the driver produced a handgun from the center console of his vehicle,” said College Station Police Chief Billy Couch at a press conference later that morning. “The 33-year-old, white, male driver, who is the primary suspect of the investigation was shot.”

Chief Couch did not take any questions at the press conference.

Multiple sources have told KBTX that a female passenger was also in the vehicle when the traffic stop occurred but police have not provided any additional information about her at this time.

CSPD press conference WATCH NOW: College Station Police Department is holding a press conference addressing the officer-involved shooting that happened Thursday morning Posted by KBTX Media on Thursday, January 21, 2021

Paramedics were called to help Stallings after the shooting, but he died, according to CSPD.

Officers said they found a loaded gun and drugs in his vehicle but they did not specify what kind of drugs were located.

No officer was injured in the incident.

Investigators at the scene were looking at a Jeep Wrangler that was eventually towed away, but no information about the suspect’s vehicle was immediately released by the agency.

“It’s always scary when things like that happen. It hits close to home and especially next door to your business,” said Mark Wilks, CEO and President of Ashley Furniture Store.

Thursday’s shooting was something Wilks didn’t expect to see before heading to work. He had to check with police before he could come in to work because of all the activity outside.

”My wife and I got it on the KBTX app that popped up and obviously we’re right next door to the Ford where it happened we were cautious and didn’t know if it was ok to go if it was open,” he said.

The Texas Rangers, Brazos County District Attorney’s Office, and CSPD Criminal Investigations Unit are all currently investigating this case. The officer involved in the shooting is on leave, per department policy.

The next of kin has been notified. The deceased was identified as Ryan D Stallings, a 33-year-old resident of College Station. — College Station Police Department (@CSTXPolice) January 21, 2021

Wilks was thankful the situation wasn’t worse or it had happened when employees or customers were near.

“Thank goodness it happened at night or that late but the police had it under control,” he said.

The Highway 6 northbound feeder road was closed from Harvey Road to University Drive while officers investigated the scene, but it has since reopened.

CSPD said the shooting and investigation had nothing to do with businesses near the scene.

Copyright 2021 KBTX. All rights reserved.