WICHITA FALLS, Texas (TNN) - VICTIM IDENTIFIED (01/25/21)

Texas DPS has identified the victim in an officer-involved shooting that happened over the weekend.

Tyree Kajawn Rogers, 38, of Wichita Falls was killed after a car chase reportedly turned into an officer-involved shooting with the Wichita County Sheriff’s Office.

The woman’s last known condition was reportedly “stable but still critical.”

The Texas Rangers are continuing to investigate at this time.

DEPUTIES PLACED ON ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE (01/24/21)

One man is dead after a car chase turned into an officer-involved shooting with the Wichita County Sheriff’s office.

WCSO said at approximately 2:00 a.m., two deputies observed a silver sedan stopped at the intersection of Hammond Road and the service road. The driver began yelling obscenities at deputies, then drove away. Deputies followed what they called the erratically driven car down Southbound U.S. 287.

The vehicle took the Fisher Road exit and began spinning out of control. WCSO said four units boxed in the vehicle, and began shooting at it when the driver started driving towards the deputies. The sedan then struck a guard rail and came to a stop.

A female passenger shouted at deputies that the driver had shot and kidnapped her. Both were transported to the hospital.

The man was pronounced dead upon arrival. The woman is still being treated for non-life-threatening injuries.

WCSO said per policy, the two deputies involved have been placed on administrative leave. The incident is under investigation by the Wichita County Sheriff’s Office Criminal Investigation Division, the Texas Rangers and the Wichita County District Attorney’s Office.

ORIGINAL STORY (01/24/21)

Texas Department of Public Safety troopers are investigating a shooting involved the Wichita County Sheriff’s Office.

Sgt. Dan Buesing with Texas DPS said the shooting took place at approximately 2:40 a.m. when a Wichita County Sheriff’s deputy attempted to stop a vehicle. The vehicle was traveling south along US 287 just easy of Wichita Falls city limits when the pursuit began. The vehicle, carrying a man and a woman, then took the Fisher Road exit and stopped on the overpass.

This is a developing story as Texas DPS continues its investigation, stick with News Channel Six as we learn more.

Copyright 2021 Texoma News Network. All rights reserved.