Updated at 7:10 p.m., Tuesday

Authorities recovered a 28-year-old man's body from the Willamette River at a Salem park Saturday afternoon.

At about 4:30 p.m., Salem Police and fire officials got a call from a passerby who noticed a body in the river near the west bank of Wallace Marine Park.

Officers found the body of Kristopher Allen Rice of Salem entangled in brush and partially submerged. The area had recently been covered by high water, officials said.

Rice's family said he may have been in the water for at least two weeks.

On Wednesday, police officials put to rest a rumor circulating social media questioning if the death involved foul play.

Medical examiner officials confirmed there was no foul play involved and said the cause of death is "presumed" to be water-related, but did not say if it was hypothermia or drowning.

Rice was last seen by police Jan. 7 when officers tried to reach him in relation to an arrest warrant. Police said Rice ran away from the officers and went into the river.

Police officers and firefighters searched for Rice using a Salem Fire Department rescue boat but were unsuccessful in finding him, and stopped the search.

Flood concerns:Salem city officials limit homeless camping in parks

Rice's family said he always had a smile on his face, loved his two brothers and sister, enjoyed sports and drawing. He also struggled with drug addiction.

"He was my wild child, he was my baby, my second-born. It was always him and I," Shelly Powell, Rice's mother, said from Pennsylvania.

Powell said she recalls their last phone conversation on Nov. 14: "It wasn't out of the ordinary that I didn't hear from him over long periods of time. He was just telling me he was OK."

"He had a smile that could charm the spots off a leopard," said Larry, Rice's step-dad.

Powell and her husband moved back to New Castle, Pennsylvania after spending about eight years in the Salem area. Rice was meant to join his family after serving a sentence following a second-degree assault conviction in 2016.

Powell said Rice was living at the camps at Wallace Marine Park while serving parole, but longed to return home.

He tried to transfer his probation to Pennsylvania.

"The parole system knew Kristopher was going to be homeless because he had nobody in (Oregon) ...but he wanted to come home," Powell said. "We don't know why it never happened, it just didn't."

It's still unclear how her son ended up in the river, she added. Police told her they believed he either jumped or fell into the water on Jan 7.

He was found over two weeks later.

"It's like a rollercoaster not knowing the exact story of what happened," Powell said. "What keeps me OK is the fact — because he was an addict — it just helps me knowing that I'm not going to get a call that he had overdosed.

"I'm not worried about where he's at now ... and the fact that he finally gets to come home is a relief."

Wallace Marine Park is one of the parks city officials have allowed individuals struggling with homelessness to camp. The area is susceptible to flooding.

Officials have moved camps away from low-level wetlands and along creek banks.

Virginia Barreda is the breaking news and public safety reporter for the Statesman Journal. She can be reached at 503-399-6657 or at vbarreda@statesmanjournal.com. Follow her on Twitter at @vbarreda2.