A Chicago man has been charged with reckless homicide in connection to a crash in Aurora Saturday that left two people dead.

Kevon T. Bonner, 19, has been charged with two counts of reckless homicide, illegal possession of a gun, leaving the scene of an accident, aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and illegal possession of ammunition, Kane County court records show. Bonner’s bail was set Monday at $250,000.

Advertisement

Kevon T. Bonner. (Aurora Police Department / HANDOUT)

The two people who died, who have not been identified, were passengers in the car Bonner is accused of driving, police said.

Aurora police said they responded to a parking lot of an apartment complex around 9:30 p.m. Saturday in the 1200 block of Coventry Place for a report of multiple people with guns. As they arrived, the crowd of people dispersed and a white Dodge Charger took off from the parking lot, police said.

Advertisement

Police spotted the car driving at a high speed on Indian Trail and saw the car run a red light at Lake Street, officials said. Officers activated their emergency lights and began to pursue the vehicle, but said they quickly terminated the pursuit.

Less than a minute later, other officers responding to the scene came upon a crash between the Dodge Charger and a minivan at North Ohio Street and East Indian Trail, police said. Aurora firefighters took two people from the minivan to an Aurora hospital with minor injuries.

One person from the Dodge Charger was killed in the crash and pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics, police said. A second person was in critical condition and was taken to an Aurora hospital where he was pronounced dead shortly after arriving, according to police.

Bonner, the alleged driver of the vehicle, is accused of running away from the crash scene. A few minutes later, a police dog found him hiding in the yard of a nearby home, officials said.

Bonner was arrested and taken to a hospital to be checked for injuries sustained in the crash, according to police.

During an initial search of the vehicle, police said they found several firearms.

In addition to the other charges, Bonner was charged with receiving or possessing a stolen vehicle, driving with a suspended or revoked license and fleeing and eluding police, court records show.

Bonner, of the 7800 block of South Shore Drive, is due back in court on Feb. 3.

Advertisement

Aurora police consulted with the Kane County Major Crimes Task Force, which investigates officer-involved deaths in the county, Aurora Police Department spokesman Paris Lewbel said. The task force determined the deaths were not officer-involved because police ended their pursuit and turned off East Indian Trail before the crash, Lewbel said.

“If the officers determine that the risks to the community outweigh the apprehension of the suspects, the pursuit is terminated,” Lewbel said.

Aurora detectives continue to investigate the incident and the circumstances of the group spotted in the apartment building parking lot with firearms. People with information are asked to call the Aurora Police Department’s Investigations Division at 630-256-5500 or call Aurora Area Crime Stoppers and report anonymously at 630-892-1000.

mejones@chicagotribune.com