The Fairfield-based Tri-City NAACP has raised concerns regarding an officer-involved shooting Tuesday in Vacaville that resulted in the death of the suspect and the injury of a police officer.

In a Zoom press conference Wednesday night, Johnicon George, Sr., Tri-City NAACP president, questioned the Vacaville Police Department’s pursuit protocol and de-escalation tactics.

In a press statement released Thursday, George advised that all officer-involved incidents that result in a fatality are worrisome.

“Law enforcement officers take a solemn oath to serve and protect the community. Therefore, as a civil rights organization, we must ensure the community that no other

alternatives were available to de-escalate the situation that resulted in loss of life,” he stated.

Tuesday’s events unfolded around 8:35 p.m., when police said a man — identified Thursday as Mark Meza, 61, of Woodland — was doing donuts and otherwise driving erratically in his gray Dodge Dakota behind City Hall. An officer attempted a traffic stop but he fled, and other officers joined in the pursuit

Near the Davis Street skate center, Lt. Mark Donaldson said, an officer broadcast that the motorist had rammed his vehicle. The chase then continued to the area of Davis Street and Bella Vista Road.

Officers then broadcast that a Pursuit Intervention Technique maneuver would be attempted. Soon after, a shots-fired report came across the airwaves.

Three officers had fired their weapons, the lieutenant said. Lifesaving measures were unsuccessful and Meza was pronounced dead at the scene.

The original responding officer suffered neck pain and shortness of breath and was treated and released from Kaiser Permanente Vacaville Medical Center.

The three officers who discharged their weapons are on paid administrative leave.

Chief John Carli emphasized Thursday that the newly-formed Solano County Major Crimes Task Force, an interagency investigative team tasked with investigating officer-involved fatal incidents and headed by the District Attorney’s Office, is handling the probe.

With new protocols in place, the Department must take a hands-off approach.

“We’re not even interviewing the involved officers,” he advised.

Carli said he understands the community’s concerns regarding the case, but all the details are in the hands of the task force and will be revealed when its investigation is complete.