Authorities were investigating a fatal deputy-involved shooting in La Quinta Friday afternoon, according to the Riverside County Sheriff's Department.

Reporters on the scene saw the body of a man on the ground near a red pickup truck that was surrounded by law enforcement vehicles.

No deputies or community members were injured, officials said in a tweet announcing the incident.

There were dozens of law enforcement officers from the sheriff's department, the Indio Police Department and the California Highway Patrol at the scene Friday.

Riverside County sheriff's deputies were diverting traffic at the intersection of Avenue 48 and Jefferson Street, which not far from the closed off scene.

As of 5 p.m. Friday, authorities had yet to provide specifics about the shooting, which is the second fatal deputy-involved shooting in Riverside County this week and this year.

The first occurred on Tuesday in the 26000 block of Steinhoff Avenue in the unincorporated area of Homeland, according to an unofficial count kept by The Desert Sun.

Deputies were dispatched to the scene of a reported domestic disturbance in the unincorporated county area near Perris. When they arrived, the department said, a man opened fired on them and deputies returned fire. The man was killed.

Authorities first reported something taking place at about 1:30 p.m. Friday when the Indio Police Department tweeted that Jefferson and Ave. 48 was being closed for an "unknown, extended time frame while the Riverside County Sheriff's Dept conducts an investigation in La Quinta."

A Desert Sun reporter who arrived at the scene soon after observed a substantial police presence of about 20 patrol cars from the Indio police, CHP and the sheriff's department, gathered a short distance from the intersection of Ave. 48 and Jefferson.

A red pickup truck was stopped off to the right side of the road along southbound Jefferson. Law enforcement personnel were surrounding it.

The body of a man could be seen on the ground next to the opened driver's side door of the truck. A long-barreled firearm was about 10 feet away from the body, on a curb.

A white pickup truck, with a mangled front driver's side tire that appeared to have been pulling a trailered red golf cart, was parked nearby and several law enforcement officers were also surrounding it. It is unclear how or if that vehicle is involved in the incident.

Eyewitness interviews suggest that the incident may be connected to a vehicle pursuit.

Bystanders said they heard gunshots and saw a police helicopter overhead.

Northbound traffic on Jefferson was being diverted onto eastbound Avenue 49, toward Madison Street in Indio. Southbound lanes of Jefferson heading toward Avenue 50 at Ave. 48 were open.