TUCSON, Ariz. (KOLD News 13) - The Tucson Police Department is actively investigating an officer-involved shooting that occurred Monday morning on Tucson’s Southside.

On February 1, 2021, just after 6:30 a.m., a patrol officer from Operations Division South witnessed a silver four-door vehicle commit a traffic violation in the area of W. Ajo Way and S. 6th Ave. The officer conducted a traffic stop on the silver vehicle.

The officer and the silver vehicle came to a stop in the parking lot of 3301 S. 6th Ave, Circle K. Immediately after the traffic stop was initiated, officers were dispatched to the 3600 block of S. 6 th Ave. regarding a report of gunfire. As officers were responding, additional information was provided that a victim was located in the parking lot of 3601 S. 6th Ave., Tucson Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

Officers arrived on the scene and learned that the suspect, 34-year-old Andrew Scott Kislek, had left in a silver four-door vehicle prior to their arrival. Officers rendered aid to the adult female victim and she was subsequently transported to Banner University Medical Center with life-threatening injuries. The officer had unknowingly stopped Kislek’s vehicle involved in the shooting.

During the traffic stop, a confrontation occurred between the officer and Kislek. Soon thereafter, the officer discharged his firearm, striking Kislek. Officers immediately began rendering aid utilizing their Individual First Aid Kits (IFAK) until Tucson Fire personnel arrived. Kislek was declared deceased at the scene by Tucson Fire.

Detectives with the Tucson Police Violent Crimes Unit along with sergeants and detectives with the department’s Office of Professional Standards are investigating the incident. The Violent Crimes Unit is conducting the criminal portion of the investigation, while the Office of Professional Standards conducts a separate, but parallel administrative investigation to examine the actions of department personnel. This is standard protocol in all officer-involved shootings.

The officer who discharged his weapon has been identified as Officer Alexis Lujan, a two-and-a-half-year veteran of the Tucson Police Department.

Detectives learned that Kislek had followed the victim, who has been identified as his estranged wife, to her place of employment at the Tucson Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Officials say Kislek followed the victim into the parking lot where he struck her vehicle multiple times with his vehicle. Officers say Kislek exited his vehicle and fired several rounds into the victim’s vehicle striking her. After the shooting Kislek left the hospital parking lot and was stopped by Officer Lujan, according to officials. This led to the confrontation between Kislek and Officer Lujan.

Additional details will be released as they become available. No officers or other community members were injured during this incident.

Copyright 2021 KOLD News 13. All rights reserved.