The shooting victim allegedly attacked one of the officers with a knife

Meridian police are investigating after officers reportedly shot and killed a burglary suspect Tuesday morning.Police Chief Chris Read told WTOK, the officers involved in the situation fired at the suspect in "self-defense." The shooting victim, a man who has not been identified, was reportedly shot by three Meridian police officers at around 11 am. According to Read, the situation unfolded after the man ran away from police after attempting to burglarize a home. Several law enforcement agencies were involved in the chase that ended near the intersection of 13th Street and 30th Avenue. The shooting victim was allegedly armed with a knife and attacked one of the officers with the weapon. That’s when officials say the officers discharged their weapons in self-defense."With everything that is happening in the United States right now and in police departments and everything that's happening in race relations, even this incident here, please let this investigation play out,” Meridian Mayor Percy Bland said in a press conference. “Even the officers involved, their race and that sort of thing, let it play out. The MBI will be communicating to our team and to our police department."One police officer had minor injuries but was treated, WTOK reported. The investigation has been turned over to the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation and the three officers have been placed on paid leave while the investigation continues.

Meridian police are investigating after officers reportedly shot and killed a burglary suspect Tuesday morning.

Police Chief Chris Read told WTOK, the officers involved in the situation fired at the suspect in "self-defense."

Advertisement

The shooting victim, a man who has not been identified, was reportedly shot by three Meridian police officers at around 11 am.

According to Read, the situation unfolded after the man ran away from police after attempting to burglarize a home.

Several law enforcement agencies were involved in the chase that ended near the intersection of 13th Street and 30th Avenue.

The shooting victim was allegedly armed with a knife and attacked one of the officers with the weapon. That’s when officials say the officers discharged their weapons in self-defense.

"With everything that is happening in the United States right now and in police departments and everything that's happening in race relations, even this incident here, please let this investigation play out,” Meridian Mayor Percy Bland said in a press conference. “Even the officers involved, their race and that sort of thing, let it play out. The MBI will be communicating to our team and to our police department."

One police officer had minor injuries but was treated, WTOK reported.

The investigation has been turned over to the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation and the three officers have been placed on paid leave while the investigation continues.