FEB. 12 UPDATE: The Clark County Coroner has identified the decedent as 27-year-old Marvin Payton, Jr., from Las Vegas. His cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds and it was ruled a homicide. Coroner rulings are not legal charges, just a description of the manner of death.

ORIGINAL STORY

LAS VEGAS (KTNV) -- Las Vegas police say one officer and three citizens shot at a man who stabbed another officer with a screwdriver during an incident inside a gun range parking lot on Wednesday.

That man was pronounced dead on the scene. It’s not clear at this time if he was killed by shots from the officer’s gun or from an intervening citizens.

His identity, as well as his cause of death, will be released at a later time by the coroner’s office.

The officer stabbed was transported to University Medical Center where she is stable, according to Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department.

Police say the man was causing a disturbance inside The Range 702 on Dean Martin Drive, near Valley View Boulevard and Russell Road, and was asked to leave the business.

Several people followed him outside and waited for the police, the department says.

Once officers arrived, authorities say he refused to approach them or talk to them.

He then pulled out a screwdriver and "violently attacked" a female officer, leading to the deadly shooting involving others in the area and her partner, the department says.

"I would like to take a moment to remind everyone the dangers of this job, of being a police officer,” said a representative for LVMPD during a press briefing from the scene, “and to thank good citizens that step up and help us in our time of need.

When asked what the disturbance was, police said it appears he was "messing around with property that did not belong to him.”

The shooting remains under investigation.

Watch the full press conference with police below:

UPDATE ON NOV. 5

The police officer involved in the shooting was identified on Nov. 5 as 34-year-old Andrew Nguyen.

He has been employed with the LVMPD since 2018. He is assigned to the Community Policing Division, Spring Valley Area Command. Officer Nguyen has been placed on routine paid administrative leave pending the outcome of a review of this incident.

