Still wearing black bands across their badges in mourning for a recently slain Cleveland police officer, officials from two law enforcement agencies gave a detailed account yesterday of the events that led up to the wounding of Sgt. Shawn Hadaway and the fatal shooting of his assailant, Terry Wyers. Wyers, 42, of 4993 Toledo Ave., Sheffield Township, became angry after a neighbor said he was going to tie up Wyers’ dog, which was running loose. An argument ensued between the two men, who were friends, according to Lorain County Sheriff Martin Mahony. An enraged Wyers, who Mahony said was drinking heavily Wednesday night, responded by getting a 12-guage shotgun from inside his house, where he lives with his mother, Betty. “(Wyers) went into the house to retrieve a weapon, and Wyers’ mother went next door and warned (the neighbor) he was seeking a weapon,” Mahony said. “(Wyers) stated he was going to kill (the neighbor) but he never did get over there.” While Wyers was getting his shotgun, the neighbor called the sheriff’s department. Before Hadaway and Deputy Tim Gallagher arrived, two additional calls reported that Wyers had a weapon and shots had been fired. As the two officers walked into Wyers’ back yard, the gunman stepped out from some trees behind the home, leveled the shotgun and fired a single shot that struck Hadaway, Mahony said. Officers do not know whether words were exchanged between the suspect and deputies. Gallagher then fired four shots as Wyers fled along the woods toward Clifton Avenue. It was not known whether any of Gallagher’s shots hit the fleeing suspect. Immediately after the “officer down” call went out, officers from Lorain, Elyria, Sheffield Lake, Sheffield Village, Avon, off-duty deputies, and the Ohio Highway Patrol converged on the scene. More than 40 officers managed to isolate Wyers in the wooded area behind 4860 O’Neil Blvd., where Lorain patrolmen heard a shot fired, according to Lorain police Lt. Rich Resendez. Rustling noises were heard just before Wyers emerged from the wooded area — about 50 feet from Lorain patrolmen Marty Carreon and Larry Swanger who were stationed at 4858 O’Neil Blvd. Wyers was ordered at least twice to stop and drop his weapon, but he turned toward the officers and acted as though he were chambering a round into the barrel of the shotgun, police said. The officers immediately opened fire, Carreon with a submachine gun and Swanger with a shotgun. Wyers was hit six times, taking four bullets in his lower right leg and one to the left, mid-thigh, according to Lorain County Coroner Dr. Paul Matus. The six bullets came from at least two different weapons, possibly three, Matus said. Further tests are being done. The fatal shot hit the right side of Wyers’ neck. That bullet, from Carreon’s HNK MP5 submachine gun, traveled through Wyers’ neck, cutting two major arteries, shattering his thyroid, and causing fatal bleeding, Matus said. When deputies retrieved Wyers’ shotgun, they found there was no shell chambered in the gun, said Lorain County Sheriff’s Sgt. Jim Drozdowski. No evidence indicates a round was fired at the Lorain officers, added Lorain Police Chief Cel Rivera. Police later found a shell inside the gunman’s pocket. Wyers had not been involved in any type of police incident for almost a decade. He was charged with assault on a police officer, disorderly conduct persisting in 1988 and driving under the influence in 1991, Resendez said. Also in 1991, he was taken to the Nord Center for a psychiatric evaluation. The sheriff’s department had two incident reports involving Wyers. The first in 1991 was an alleged assault, where Wyers’ name was mentioned but no charges were filed. The second, again in 1991, involved taking Wyers to the Cleveland Psychiatric Institution. Other police-related incidents with Wyers had to do with assistance calls from the Nord Center, where Wyers was being treated for mental illness. Police were called to the Nord Center in 1988 because Wyers had become combative and they had to take him to a psychiatric hospital in Cleveland. He was treated at the Nord Center as recently as last week, according to Mahony, but a spokeswoman for the mental health center declined to confirm the information. “In any situation that happens like this, we have to reserve the right to protect any client and the client’s family,” said Ruth Lasecki, vice president of total quality management at the Nord Center. Wyers had recently been upset about his father, who died six months ago, according to Mahony. He and his mother shared the white, ranch-style home. It’s lawn was shaded yesterday by three large maple trees, and the blue-trimmed door remained shut during the sunny summer morning. After clearing the scene of both shootings yesterday morning, detectives returned to search Wyers’ house, Mahony said. Inside, officers found a 22-caliber rifle, a 20-guage shotgun, six knives, a machete and a bag full of medications, Mahony said. Investigators were sorting through the medications in an effort to determine Wyers’ mental illness. Deputies are also trying to determine if the guns found in the house were registered to Wyers, Drozdowski said. While the investigation continued, Hadaway remained in the intensive care unit at Cleveland MetroHealth Medical Center, where he improved from critical to stable condition yesterday afternoon, according to a nursing supervisor. Based on a conversation with doctors, Mahony was optimistic about Hadaway’s recovery. Hadaway was hit by No. 6 shot, what is often referred to as bird shot. The shell is packed with small BB-type pellets, which can be deadly if fired at close range, Matus said. The farther the pellets travel, the wider apart they spread. Hadaway, who was not wearing a bulletproof vest, was 30 yards away from Wyers when he was shot, Mahony said. “Some of (the pellets) penetrated his skin but didn’t go that far (into his body) because of the distance,” Mahony said. Hadaway, 41, has been a deputy for 20 years and a sergeant since 1984. He was working an overtime shift Wednesday. Normally Hadaway works from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., but was covering for another sergeant on the 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. shift after working overnight Tuesday, Mahony said. Mahony did not want speculate why Hadaway was not wearing his bulletproof vest. It is department policy that deputies wear vests, but it is not mandatory, Mahony said. “I think he’s very fortunate,” Mahony said. “It is our policy to wear vests, but at this time I’m not going to go into details. (Hadaway) is in the hospital and being treated and at some future time I will discuss it with him.” Lorain patrolmen Carreon and Swanger were placed on three-day administrative leave yesterday in accordance with department policy after a shooting, Rivera said. Both officers are required to meet with a counselor within two days. “Both men were doing fine, considering the circumstances,” Rivera said, explaining the time off gives officers an opportunity to come to terms with taking a life. “I think it took a lot of courage for them to do that,” Rivera said. “They did what they were trained to do. It ended the way it was supposed to. They’re supposed to go home to their wives and kids.” As the investigation comes to an end within the next couple days, the Lorain County Sheriff’s Department will review practices and procedures used by all officers during the incident. Rivera said he is confident the officers acted properly, and they are not under scrutiny. “Overall, it’s a pretty simple investigation. It’s got a tragic result, but it’s a simple investigation,” Rivera said. wscott@morningjournal.com jmccartney@eriecoast.com