LENOIR CITY, Tenn. (WATE) — Update: The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation reports 56-year-old Tracy Hope Walter-Hensley has been identified as the woman killed in Wednesday morning’s officer-involved shooting in Lenoir City.

TBI reports deputies with LCSO attempted to serve an eviction order to Walter-Hensley when she discharged a weapon. Deputies that returned fire and retreated to cover.

A SWAT team from Blount County Sheriff’s Office assisted and deployed a camera-equipped robot into the home, where they found the woman lying on the floor.

SWAT members then entered the home and found Walter-Hensley dead from a gunshot wound.

As reported earlier, no officers were injured during this incident.

TBI says the investigation remains active and will share all findings with the district attorney general.

The family of the deceased spoke out following the incident.

“As a family, we are confused and troubled by what happened earlier today,” Walter-Hensley’s daughter Teresa Hensley said. “We would like law enforcement to provide us with some clarity about what happened to our mother.”

Earlier: TBI reports a female occupant of the home is dead and is not being identified at this time pending notification of kin.

No officers were injured in this incident. TBI lab agents are on the scene to collect evidence.

TBI investigating shooting involving 2 Loudon County deputies attempting to serve paperwork

Earlier: Tennessee Bureau of Investigations is investigating a shooting involving two Loudon County deputies in Lenoir City Wednesday afternoon.

Loudon County Sheriff’s Office says deputies were attempting to serve civil process paperwork at 9:39 a.m. at a home on Waller Street; during the interaction, deputies were involved in a shooting.

TBI agents are on scene investigating the officer-involved shooting and are leading the investigation.

Lenoir City woman allegedly pulled gun on deputies attempting to serve papers

Earlier: Authorities said a woman pulled a gun on Loudon County deputies as they attempted to serve processing papers in Lenoir City on Wednesday.

Law enforcement are at the scene of the incident on Waller Street in Lenoir City. The Loudon County Sheriff’s Office said that is all the information they can release at this time.









Ninth District Attorney Russell Johnson said that he is aware of an ongoing situation in Lenoir City and has notified the TBI to be on standby in the event any law enforcement ends up shooting the suspect in this situation.

Meanwhile, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said they’re aware of the situation at this time.

This is a developing story and we will update you as we learn more.