The man accused of shooting and killing two men with their own weapons Wednesday in Kewaskum has been identified as Nicholas Pingel, 30, of West Bend.When deputies arrived at the scene on Forest View Road, Washington County sheriff's Deputy Lee Goodman exchanged gunfire with Pingel, killing him, an autopsy confirmed. A gun was found near Pingel's body, investigators said.A Department of Corrections spokesperson confirmed officials issued an arrest warrant for Pingel just one day before the killings, telling WISN 12 News' Derrick Rose that Pingel's "agent learned of allegations of him leaving the transitional living facility without approval."DOC records show Pingel had just been released from custody to that facility on Dec. 1.The two shooting victims, Ray Engelking, 72, and Carl Halvorsen, 77, were unknown to Pingel. Goodman has been placed on administrative leave, which is standing operating procedure pending the outcome of the independent investigation. The Wisconsin Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation continues to investigate shooting.

The man accused of shooting and killing two men with their own weapons Wednesday in Kewaskum has been identified as Nicholas Pingel, 30, of West Bend.

When deputies arrived at the scene on Forest View Road, Washington County sheriff's Deputy Lee Goodman exchanged gunfire with Pingel, killing him, an autopsy confirmed.

Advertisement

A gun was found near Pingel's body, investigators said.

A Department of Corrections spokesperson confirmed officials issued an arrest warrant for Pingel just one day before the killings, telling WISN 12 News' Derrick Rose that Pingel's "agent learned of allegations of him leaving the transitional living facility without approval."



DOC records show Pingel had just been released from custody to that facility on Dec. 1.

The two shooting victims, Ray Engelking, 72, and Carl Halvorsen, 77, were unknown to Pingel.

Goodman has been placed on administrative leave, which is standing operating procedure pending the outcome of the independent investigation.

The Wisconsin Department of Justice Division of Criminal Investigation continues to investigate shooting.