BALTIMORE — A member of the U.S. Marshals Service was shot Thursday morning while serving an arrest warrant on a fugitive wanted on attempted murder and armed robbery charges, according to Baltimore police.

>> Read more trending news

Officials said deputies returned fire after the fugitive, identified as Dontae Green, began shooting at them. At least one bullet struck Green, who was pronounced dead at the scene, authorities said.

Update 3:45 p.m. ET Feb. 4: Officials identified the man killed Thursday morning in a shootout with U.S. Marshals in Baltimore as Dontae Green.

Baltimore police Commissioner Michael Harrison said officers had been looking for Green since Saturday, when he alleged fired shots at police officers at a grocery store in North Baltimore. The Baltimore Sun reported Green opened fire at the Compare Foods store in the Alameda Marketplace because he was angry over his paycheck.

Police said he was wanted on 19 charges, including attempted murder, armed robbery and handgun violations.

Don Snider, commander of the U.S. Marshals Service’s Capitol Area Regional Fugitive Task Force, said authorities were clearing a residence associated with Green early Thursday when he opened fire on them from inside a closet. Deputies returned fire, killing Green.

One deputy U.S. Marshal was seriously injured in the shooting. Dr. Thomas Scalea, of the University of Maryland shock trauma center in Baltimore, said the deputy suffered a gunshot wound to the torso.

“He was quite sick when he got here,” Scalea said. “He is up in the intensive care unit but still on life support.”

He said Thursday afternoon that it remained too early to tell whether the deputy would survive his wounds.

Update 10:25 a.m. ET Feb. 4: Officials with the U.S. Marshals Service said a deputy was recovering from surgery Thursday morning after being shot earlier in the day while serving an arrest warrant in Baltimore.

The deputy, who was not identified, was taken to the Shock Trauma Center at University of Maryland Medical System with serious injuries, officials said.

Don Snider, commander of the U.S. Marshals Service’s Capitol Area Regional Fugitive Task Force, said earlier that a fugitive wanted on attempted murder and armed robbery charges opened fire on deputies attempting to serve a warrant in West Baltimore. Snider said deputies returned fire, striking the fugitive.

Authorities confirmed Thursday that the fugitive has since died.

On Thursday, February 4, 2021, members of the US Marshals Capital Area Regional Fugitive Task Force were involved in a shooting incident in Baltimore while serving an arrest warrant on a subject wanted for armed robbery and attempted murder. — U.S. Marshals (@USMarshalsHQ) February 4, 2021

Our thoughts and prayers are with the deputy and his family during this tragic time. — U.S. Marshals (@USMarshalsHQ) February 4, 2021

Update 9:55 a.m. ET Feb. 4: Authorities said a fugitive wanted on attempted murder and armed robbery charges opened fire on deputies attempting to serve an arrest warrant on Thursday morning.

Don Snider, commander of the U.S. Marshals Service’s Capitol Area Regional Fugitive Task Force, said deputies returned fire, striking the fugitive.

“I don’t have a status update on the condition of either at this time,” he said at a news conference Thursday morning. “It’s an ongoing investigation in coordination with the Baltimore city police department and the U.S. Marshals Service. We will release information at a future time as the situation allows us to.”

Police spokesman detective Donny Moses earlier told The Baltimore Sun that the suspect who opened fire on deputies died after the shooting.

Original report: In a social media post published around 7:30 a.m., police said they were responding to a report of an officer-involved shooting. A U.S. Marshal was serving an arrest warrant in the 1400 block of N. Mount Street when they were shot, authorities said.

The extent of the Marshal’s injuries were not immediately known.

Confirmed: member of the U.S. Marshals shot while serving arrest warrant in the 1400 block of N. Mount Street — Baltimore Police (@BaltimorePolice) February 4, 2021

Police told The Baltimore Sun and WBAL-TV that the person suspected of shooting the officer was dead after the encounter. Additional information was not immediately available.

Authorities continue to investigate.

Cox Media Group