TROTWOOD — A man was killed and three officers are now on administrative leave after an officer-involved shooting on Friday night involving Trotwood Police.

The incident began as a report of a man stealing items from the Speedway convenience store at 5000 Olive Road, near the intersection with Shiloh Springs Road, around 10:15 p.m. Friday, Trotwood police said.

Andrew Hogan, 25, of Trotwood, was identified as the man shot and killed in the incident, according to Montgomery County Coroner Dr. Kent Harshbarger.

>> Stimulus news: Democrats set to propose yearly payment of $3,000 per child

Trotwood police said they had at least one previous encounter with Hogan before the shooting.

“My heart and prayers go out to them,” Trotwood Police Chief Erik Wilson said.

The three officers were placed on administrative leave after the shooting, which is standard in officer-involved shooting cases. Wilson didn’t release the names of those officers or how many officers may have fired their service weapon.

News Center 7 has requested personnel records for each of the officers and Wilson said the city’s law department is preparing those public records.

“This is troubling to them as well,” Wilson said.

Before police arrived on scene, Hogan had left the store and was walking west on Shiloh Springs Road. Police located him and got into an altercation in front of the Kensington apartment complex.

“The suspect male refused to follow orders and assaulted one of the officers on the scene. Additional attempts to gain compliance, without success,” Trotwood police Sgt. Joseph McCrary said in the department’s media release.

Wilson said police used a Taser, pepper spray and baton to try and get Hogan to comply.

Police said Hogan then ran from officers and went into an apartment in the 700 block of Kelford Place.

“While the officers waited for additional units to respond to make contact with the suspect, the suspect male exited the apartment with a knife in hand. The male suspect was fatally shot,” McCrary said.

The knife McCrary was said to have had when he was shot was recovered, Wilson said.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation will be leading the criminal investigation. An internal investigation also has been started, Wilson said.

Body camera video of the altercation that led to Hogan’s death does not exist because Trotwood police do not have them. Hogan’s family has reached out to the Dayton Chapter of the NAACP saying they are seeking answers in the incident.

“And I believe they already killed him. That’s why you need body cameras to tell the truth,” Bernett Hogan, Andrew’s mother, said during a NAACP news conference Sunday.

Wilson said the department is working to fund purchasing body cameras, but that funding has not happened yet.

Dayton NAACP Chapter President Derrick Forward said he and the organization hopes Trotwood police invest in body cameras as an effort to prevent future loss of life.





Cox Media Group