The man shot Sunday morning by a Lacy Lakeview Police officer has died from his injuries. Police Chief John Truehitt expressed the department’s condolences to the man’s family and friends.

Texas Rangers are investigating the shooting, which took place around 9:30 a.m. Sunday morning, at the Northgate Apartments.

A neighbor spoke to FOX44 News reporter Jessica Rivera about the incident. She says she called police around 9 a.m. because a man was running around with an ax. She says the man hit several cars with the ax, shattering at least one window. He’s also accused of hitting one other person with the ax, but it did not resort in a serious injury.

The neighbor says an officer arrived around 9:20 a.m. and told the man to drop the ax at least ten times.

Chief Truehitt says Officer Thomas Beasley told the man to drop the hatchet and stop coming towards him, but the man refused, so Beasley shot him once.

The suspect ran off, according to the neighbor, but did not get far before collapsing on the ground. An ambulance took the man to the hospital, but he later died.

Officer Beasley is on paid administrative leave while Texas Rangers investigate the shooting, which is standard procedure.

FOX44 News will have a full wrap up of the investigation tonight on FOX44 News at 9.

Sunday morning, Lacy Lakeview police arrived to the Northgate apartments after getting a call about a man breaking car windows with an axe.

“My granddaughter was calling me telling me there was a guy out here walking with an axe he broke the back of her window and so I told her get out of there, I called 911,” says a witness.

The woman I spoke with says the man hit another person with the axe, the injury was minor and didn’t need medical assistance. Police arrived at the scene around 9:20 in the morning, the witness was able to point out to the police that the man was behind the apartments.

“And he seen that he had that axe and the police pulled out his gun and told him about ten times put the axe down, put the axe down, he kept telling him and he wouldn’t and finally when the police were about six feet away from him, he did his hand back like he was going to hit him with the axe, so the police had to shoot, he had no choice but to shoot,” says a witness.

Witness says the officer shot the man once, but the gunshot didn’t stop him at first.

“The guy took off running and ran about a half a block into that field before he collapsed,” says a witness.

An ambulance quickly arrived to the scene and took the man to the hospital. The officer involved is currently on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation.