The Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office is clarifying what took place before a crash that killed a South Carolina teacher. The clarification came after WYFF News 4 obtained surveillance video from a nearby gas station. (Watch portion of the video above) Jessica Munyon of Moore died on Blackstock Road Wednesday. Deputies said Munyon was killed when a black Cadillac law enforcement had tried to stop collided with her car. The clarification centers around what happened at the intersection of East Blackstock Road and Hidden Hill Road. This is the intersection where Hidden Hill Road turns into Old Anderson Mill Road. Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office Public Information Officer Lt. Kevin Bobo said a deputy had ended the pursuit of the black Cadillac before the intersection. It's about a mile and a half away from where the violent crash took place. Surveillance video from a gas station at the intersection of East Blackstock Road and Hidden Hill Road shows a speeding black Cadillac, followed by a deputy, what appears to be a South Carolina Highway Patrol trooper on a motorcycle going through the intersection. WYFF News 4 has also obtained surveillance video just past the intersection again showing the Cadillac, followed by the deputy and trooper driving by. The Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office said Thursday in a press release that the deputy and trooper had stopped at the intersection and waited for the light to turn green. On Friday, Bobo said that he had misinterpreted the deputy's report of what took place. Bobo said the deputy had written he cleared the intersection. Bobo said he thought that meant he had stopped at the intersection.

The Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office is clarifying what took place before a crash that killed a South Carolina teacher.

The clarification came after WYFF News 4 obtained surveillance video from a nearby gas station. (Watch portion of the video above)

Advertisement

Jessica Munyon of Moore died on Blackstock Road Wednesday. Deputies said Munyon was killed when a black Cadillac law enforcement had tried to stop collided with her car.

SC Whitmire School Jessica Munyon

The clarification centers around what happened at the intersection of East Blackstock Road and Hidden Hill Road. This is the intersection where Hidden Hill Road turns into Old Anderson Mill Road.

Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office Public Information Officer Lt. Kevin Bobo said a deputy had ended the pursuit of the black Cadillac before the intersection. It's about a mile and a half away from where the violent crash took place.

Surveillance video from a gas station at the intersection of East Blackstock Road and Hidden Hill Road shows a speeding black Cadillac, followed by a deputy, what appears to be a South Carolina Highway Patrol trooper on a motorcycle going through the intersection.

WYFF News 4 has also obtained surveillance video just past the intersection again showing the Cadillac, followed by the deputy and trooper driving by.

The Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office said Thursday in a press release that the deputy and trooper had stopped at the intersection and waited for the light to turn green.

On Friday, Bobo said that he had misinterpreted the deputy's report of what took place. Bobo said the deputy had written he cleared the intersection. Bobo said he thought that meant he had stopped at the intersection.