LAS VEGAS (KLAS) — Metro police sources say a man is dead after a barricade situation at an apartment complex in the southeast valley.

SWAT officers were sent in and cleared the scene, reporting that the suspect was deceased. SWAT has reportedly left the scene, which is at Milan Apartment townhomes, just west of the intersection of Silverado Ranch and Maryland Parkway.

A Metro briefing indicated that the man fired at officers from an apartment window, and police returned fire. It is unknown if the man was wounded during the gunfire exchange.

Sources did confirm that the suspect had started a small fire in his apartment and fire crews were called to the scene and assisted in putting it out.

(Hector Mejia / 8NewsNow)

(Hector Mejia / 8NewsNow)

(Hector Mejia / 8NewsNow)

(Hector Mejia / 8NewsNow)

DEVELOPING DETAILS

Police responded to the apartment complex in the 800 block of E. Silverado Ranch just before 10 a.m.

Initial reports indicated that police had located a man and a woman after a report of a domestic altercation. “They encountered the female half of the altercation on the second-floor landing of the apartment,” police said.

Officers asked her to come down the stairs, and then the man came out of the apartment and fired a shot at police. Officers returned fire.

The man went back inside, and the woman was taken to safety. She was not injured.

“A short time later,” police said, the man started to fire at officers from an apartment window. Officers again returned fire. It is unknown if he was hit by any rounds.

Police initially described the incident as an officer-involved shooting, adding that no officers were hurt. Police shut down traffic in the area and used a helicopter as the searched for the suspect.

Clark County firefighters were called to the scene about 40 minutes after the initial police response. Firefighters stayed back when reports of smoke came about an hour later. More fire crews were called, but the smoke dissipated and firefighters again stayed back.

Just before 2 p.m., fire was seen in the second story apartment window and crews put it out from outside as police provided protection.

According to the Clark County Fire Department, SWAT officers went in to clear the apartment once the fire was out, finding the suspect deceased.

Fire crews entered the apartment to put out the rest of the fire out and check to see that the fire had not spread

No fire-related injuries are reported. The cause of the fire has not been determined and remains under investigation. Damages have not been estimated yet.

The apartments are just southeast of the intersection of E. Silverado Ranch and Pollock St., west of Maryland Parkway.

Motorists are advised to avoid the area.

Traffic is shut down on Silverado Ranch between Pollock and Maryland Parkway.

This is the second officer-involved shooting in the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department’s jurisdiction for 2021.

This is a developing story. Check back for details.