CLEMSON, S.C. (WSPA) – Clemson Police Department officials said a man died following an officer-involved shooting early Thursday morning.

Police said officers were investigating a stolen vehicle 1:15 a.m. to a Circle K, located at 307 block of College Avenue. SLED said the vehicle was a stolen moped.

According to the police department, there was a struggle between the officers and a man. Police said the man pulled out a gun and the officers defended themselves.

The man was shot, according to the police department. Officers rendered first aid until EMS arrived.

“Well the fact that I’m pumping gas here right now, I had no idea. It’s kind of scary,” said Erin McGhee, student at Clemson University. I mean the university didn’t tell us, so I was kind of shocked. I honestly didn’t expect that to happen here,” she said.

This incident did not occur on campus. It happened near Highway 123.

The man died from his injuries, police said. The suspect was later identified as 25-year-old Gregory Chandler Metz, of Greenville.

Gregory Metz (Greenville Co. Detention Center)

Gregory Metz (Anderson County Detention Center)

Gregory Metz (Anderson County Detention Center)

Gregory Metz (Anderson County Detention Center)

Gregory Metz (Anderson County Detention Center)

Clemson Police Chief Jorge Campos said both officers involved were not injured.

“What led up to that, and how it occurred, again, is still be investigated. We do train to avoid these situations as much as possible, but sometimes, things occur,” said Chief Campos. “We go through a variety of training for a variety of things. Law enforcement officers don’t get into this profession to be involved in shootings or to take lives, so we definitely do trainings along those lines, and the things we can do to limit the possibilities where that’s going to be the case. We train so we don’t have to do that. It’s very unfortunate and tragic when it does happen, and it effects the officers profoundly when that occurs because we’re trained to save people and to save lives and not take them. So we do spend a lot of training on that. It’s all part of our use of force training, or de-escalation training etc.,” Chief Campos said.

According to arrest records, Metz has been previously charged with crimes in several jurisdictions; Greenville, North Myrtle Beach, Anderson, Anderson County, Simpsonville, Wellford, Clemson, Abbeville County and Belton. Some charges include driving under suspension, drug and weapon charges, assault and battery, possession of stolen vehicle and giving false information to police.

In this case, Clemson Police said they are unable to tell us what led up to the incident, since the investigation has been handed over to the South Carolina Department of Law Enforcement (SLED).

“Nothing about this situation is normal, our routine. I would say this situation is definitely abnormal. The majority of our contacts with citizens are cordial and compliant, and our officers are trained to communicate and interact with people to avoid conflict,” Chief Campos said.

“It is a little unsettling just to know that, I go to this gas station with my friends all the time, so it is weird,” McGhee said.

While the circumstances surrounding this case, are very limited, some are surprised it all unfolded in their backyard.

“I wouldn’t expect that to happen so close to home, it’s kind of scary,” McGhee said.

7-News asked Clemson University if they notified students when the incident occurred, and university officials said the incident concluded without posing an ongoing threat to the campus or campus community.

SLED responded to the scene and will continue to investigate.