This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

SPRING VALLEY, Calif. – A young woman was killed and several other people, including a 1-year-old child, were hurt when a reported stolen car slammed into their vehicles at an intersection as it tried to escape police late Friday.

Two teenagers, ages 16 and 17, from the suspected stolen vehicle were hospitalized with minor injuries and then booked into juvenile hall.

The chase started shortly after 10 p.m. in the Spring Valley area, when deputies spotted a car driving on Grand Avenue with its lights off, according to San Diego County Sheriff’s Department. A records check of the license plate showed the vehicle had been stolen, so authorities turned on their lights and sirens to try to stop the car, according to a department news release.

#BREAKING At least three people taken to the hospital after the pursuit of a suspected stolen car ended here at Jamacha Rd & Sweetwater Rd in #SpringValley @fox5sandiego pic.twitter.com/HnD1FLJCg7 — Kasia Gregorczyk (@KasiaGTV) February 13, 2021

Instead, the car sped off. Minutes later, the suspects’ vehicle was trying to run a red light at high speeds when it slammed into two other cars at Jamacha Road and Sweetwater Road. The teen driver tried to run away but was quickly arrested, deputies say, and the other teen inside the car surrendered.

Meanwhile, deputies and firefighters tried to save the life of a 21-year-old woman who was in the first vehicle hit by the teens. She was taken to the hospital, but later pronounced dead, officials said.

The other vehicle contained two men and a 15-month-old child. All were taken to the hospital for “moderate to serious injuries” and are expected to survive, according to the sheriff’s department.

Video from the scene showed scattered wreckage in the intersection that demonstrated what a violent collision it had been. A white vehicle with its passenger side badly smashed in and a red vehicle with damage to its front appeared to have taken the brunt of the damage.

Authorities say the 17-year-old driving the vehicle is accused of gross vehicular manslaughter and possession of a stolen vehicle among other charges. The 16-year-old passenger was arrested on charges related to a handgun found in the car, according to sheriff’s officials.