Three people were killed in a fiery wrong-way collision on I-70 on the west side Saturday morning after a driver fled a state police trooper who had stopped to assist him.

The crash was in the westbound lanes of the interstate just west of Holt Road at about 4 a.m., said Wayne Township Fire Department Division Chief Courtney Rice.

“It was a head-on collision,” Rice said.

Aaron Negash, 28, of Indianapolis, was stopped in a Hyundai SUV on the shoulder of westbound I-70 facing the wrong direction when an Indiana State trooper stopped to see what the problem was, ISP said in a news release.

When the trooper parked in front of the SUV and got out of his squad car to approach the vehicle, Negash started driving forward.

The trooper pounded on the car's windshield, yelling for Negash to stop, without success, police said. Negash veered around the police car and proceeded about a half mile in the wrong direction before crashing into a Hyundai Sonata with two occupants.

When the trooper pulled up to the crash scene one of the vehicles was on fire, which he put out with a fire extinguisher, according to ISP. An off-duty paramedic stopped and helped the trooper give first aid to the victims.

All three victims — Negash, the driver of the Sonata and his passenger — were pronounced dead at the scene. No one else was injured or involved in the accident, police said.

The driver of the Sonata was identified as 34-year-old Jepthah Lian, of Indianapolis. His passenger was from out of town and their identity was being withheld until authorities can contact the family.

Indiana State Police Sgt. John Perrine said investigating officers believe alcohol or drugs could be a factor in this crash but a blood test that would determine so is pending.

Earlier this month:Police identify deceased driver in a multiple-vehicle wrong-way crash on I-65

It was the second wrong-way crash on the same stretch of I-70, and the third on Indianapolis highways, this year.

On Jan. 7, a driver in the eastbound lane west of the Holt Road exit collided with a semi-trailer tractor truck and was killed. The semi caught fire and landed on top of the car. The truck's driver was injured and hospitalized.

On Feb. 7, a driver was killed on I-65 when he drove the wrong way in the southbound lanes of I-65 near Southport Road.

Christopher Kattman, 29, of Greenwood, was killed and two people who were in an SUV he hit were hospitalized.

Perrine said blood tests of Kattman have not been completed. He did not know whether drugs or alcohol were involved in the January crash.

Call IndyStar reporter John Tuohy at 317-444-6418. Email at john.tuohy@indystar.com and follow on Twitter and Facebook.