Court of Appeals of California, Fourth District, Division One.

NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN OFFICIAL REPORTS

BENKE, Acting P. J.

A jury convicted Noava Michelle Martinez of murder (count 1, Pen. Code, 1 § 187, subd. (a)), evading a police officer in willful disregard for safety of persons or property (count 2, Veh. Code, § 2800.2), and six counts of assaulting a police officer with a firearm (counts 3-7, 9, § 245, subd. (d)(2)). Martinez admitted one prior felony conviction within the meaning of sections 667, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1) and 1170.12, subdivision (c)(1). She also admitted three prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). The court sentenced Martinez to prison for a total term of 70 years to life.

On appeal, Martinez contends: (1) the trial court abused its discretion when it denied her motion for a mistrial based on comments the trial judge made during voir dire; (2) the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct by insinuating defense counsel coached Martinez in her testimony; (3) the trial court improperly instructed the jury on voluntary intoxication; and (4) the cumulative impact of these errors violated Martinez's Fourteenth Amendment due process rights.

We conclude the court did not abuse its discretion when it denied Martinez's motion for a mistrial and that any error in this regard was harmless. The prosecutor's comment about Martinez's testimony, though improper, did not unduly prejudice Martinez. The trial court correctly instructed the jury on its consideration of voluntary intoxication. Moreover, in light of the jury's related findings, any error was harmless. Finally, we conclude Martinez's Fourteenth Amendment due process rights were not violated and she received a fair trial.

FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

A. Prosecution's Case

Michael Sanchez was a parolee at large wanted for armed carjacking. On November 21, 2003, the Riverside County Sheriff's Department Career Criminal Apprehension Team (the CCAT) identified Sanchez in the passenger seat of a vehicle. The CCAT followed the vehicle to a house which Sanchez entered. Shortly thereafter, Sanchez and Martinez came out of the house and got into a blue station wagon. Sanchez laid down in the backseat and Martinez drove. Several undercover CCAT members followed the station wagon in unmarked vehicles. The CCAT also radioed for assistance from a marked patrol car in the area.

The CCAT followed the blue station wagon on and off a freeway, and at one point onto an unimproved dirt road in the middle of the desert and then back on to paved roadways. A CCAT member believed Martinez knew law enforcement was following them because "her speed increased considerably." Martinez drove across a large dip in one road and nearly lost control of the station wagon. Although the front wheels left the ground, sparks flew and the vehicle wobbled back and forth, Martinez was able to maintain a straight path. The CCAT again radioed for a marked patrol car to take over the pursuit.

Riverside County Sheriff's Deputy John Clark responded to the CCAT's radio call. As Martinez approached Clark, he turned on his motorcycle's police lights and directed Martinez to pull to the side of the road. According to Clark, Martinez "just blew right past me" and fled. Martinez drove into on-coming traffic to pass slow-moving cars, running several cars off the road.

Sanchez then emerged from the passenger seat, hung from the passenger side window and shot at Clark twice. Clark dropped behind the patrol cars, which took over the pursuit. The pursuit continued at approximately 70 miles per hour. Sanchez reached out of the passenger side window again and shot twice at the cars.

The high-speed pursuit continued, and Sanchez again fired at deputies. Martinez ran a red light and the deputies followed. Sanchez then fired several more rounds at patrol cars.

The chase paused in a residential area at a construction site where a forklift blocked Martinez's path. Martinez stopped for a few seconds while the forklift cleared the road. Sanchez fired two more shots, and the pursuit continued.

Martinez attempted to turn into the driveway of a shopping center, but "wash[ed] out" and hit a curb, causing the car to stop. Deputies pulled up behind the station wagon, and Sanchez again exchanged gunfire with deputies. Martinez pulled away from the curb and resumed her flight.

The chase ended when Martinez ran a stop sign and "T-boned" a silver Honda. Paramedics transported Delonn Arenas, a passenger in the silver Honda, to the hospital, but Arenas died from injuries sustained in the collision.

After the collision, Sanchez fled on foot. The parties stipulated Sanchez fled into the desert, engaged in an extensive struggle with law enforcement officers, and died there of sudden cardiac arrest. The parties further stipulated Sanchez was acutely intoxicated with methamphetamine/amphetamine. Several seconds after the collision, Deputy White arrived to find Martinez slumped over the center console of the station wagon. White gave Martinez verbal commands to exit the vehicle, but she appeared to be unconscious. As White and another deputy pulled Martinez out of the vehicle, she regained consciousness and there was "a little bit of a struggle to get handcuffs on her."

Police took Martinez to the hospital. There, Investigator Gary LeClair conducted an interview. Martinez gave LeClair a false name and a false birth date. She said she was at her brother's house when her boyfriend came over and told her he was being followed. He said the people who were following him were going to come into the house. Martinez's cousin told her to take the station wagon. When she left, "the people" chased her. Martinez told LeClair she was afraid because "[t]hey [wouldn't identify] themselves or anything, so I didn't know who the hell they were."

Martinez eventually told LeClair her true name and birth date. She admitted she was on parole and had a warrant for her arrest. She admitted trying to get herself and Sanchez away because they both had warrants.

Hospital staff drew Martinez's blood at 6:20 p.m. on the day of the collision. Her blood test revealed a methamphetamine concentration of 290 nanograms per milliliter. This concentration is typical for a methamphetamine abuser. At this level of concentration, a person may have trouble focusing and perception of time is often distorted. However, a person with that level of methamphetamine in her bloodstream can engage in goal-oriented behavior and make decisions.

When examining Sanchez's belongings the police found a love letter from Martinez in one of Sanchez's pockets.

B. Defense Case

Martinez testified on her own behalf. She stated she dated Sanchez, but left him in September 2003 because he was "always beating [her] up."

According to Martinez, on November 21, 2003, Sanchez came over to her brother's house uninvited. Sanchez flashed a gun at her brother, who let Sanchez into the house. Sanchez told Martinez the cops were outside and demanded she give him a ride. Martinez started crying and told Sanchez he could take the car himself, but Sanchez refused. Martinez thought Sanchez would shoot her and her brother if she did not comply.

The two got into the blue station wagon. Martinez began to drive Sanchez where he directed. She noticed unfamiliar vehicles following them, and later saw police cars behind her. Martinez kept driving. She never exited the station wagon during either stop in the chase for fear of being shot by Sanchez or police.

After the collision, Martinez told Investigator LeClair that Sanchez was her boyfriend and she tried to help him escape because they both had warrants. She initially gave police a fake name because of her warrants. She thought Sanchez could use his gang connections to retaliate against her and her family if she continued talking to police. Martinez testified she would have been honest with LeClair if she had known Sanchez was dead during her interview.

Martinez admitted she was present at the September 2003 carjacking for which the CCAT was trying to apprehend Sanchez. However, Martinez claimed she was unaware Sanchez was carjacking the victim and did not participate in the crime.

A detective with the Desert Hot Springs Police Department testified Sanchez was a founder of the Browns Town Locos criminal street gang. When women hang out with and date gang members it is called "thug love." In these situations, women will engage in criminal activity for their boyfriends. The detective opined that the fact that Sanchez had a love letter from Martinez in his pocket at the time of his death supports the fact that Martinez was involved in a "thug love"-type relationship with Sanchez.

Psychiatrist Edwin Roth interviewed Martinez in January 2009 and concluded she is a paranoid schizophrenic with limited thinking and very limited emotional capacity. Roth doubted Martinez's schizophrenia was in remission at the time of the crime. Roth further concluded that after the collision, Martinez had post-concussion syndrome in which a person can be groggy, not think clearly, and have amnesia.

DISCUSSION

I

Motion for Mistrial

After the close of jury voir dire, Martinez's counsel moved for a mistrial based on remarks the trial judge made about defense counsel. Martinez contends the remarks caused irreparable prejudice, depriving her a fair trial. We disagree.

Briefly, defense counsel made unprofessional and inaccurate remarks about his role in the trial court's failure to excuse a juror for hardship. In response to counsel's statements, the trial judge made an accurate statement about defense counsel. Later, after a juror indicated that defense counsel was no longer credible, the trial court gave defense counsel an opportunity to explain to prospective jurors the circumstances which gave rise to his inaccurate statements. We find no error and, in any event, no prejudice sufficient to warrant a mistrial.

A. Background

During voir dire, a prospective juror told the court he lost a job opportunity with the United States Census Bureau because the court denied his hardship request. The trial court expressed its sympathy and asked the prospective juror if losing the job opportunity would affect his concentration on the case. The prospective juror replied by quoting Colin Powell, "Get mad and get over it," and stated his concentration would not be affected.

Defense counsel began his voir dire by stating he was sorry about what happened to the prospective juror. The following exchange then occurred:

"[Defense counsel]: Do you think you got screwed?

"[PROSPECTIVE JUROR]: Ah, I wouldn't— I wouldn't term it that way. I would say that it was, you know, extenuating, mitigating circumstances and that this Court didn't read my reason, and—and chose to make that decision. But I don't know that I would term it that I got screwed.

"[Defense counsel]: I think you got screwed. I term it that way.

"[PROSPECTIVE JUROR]: Well, that's your opinion."

At the conclusion of defense counsel's voir dire and in the presence of the prospective jurors, the trial court and defense counsel engaged in the following colloquy:

"THE COURT: By the way, . . . you were the one that wouldn't sign off on excusing [the prospective juror];

"Defense counsel: No, no, no.

"THE COURT: Right here, in writing, [the prosecutor]—

"[Defense counsel]: I'm the one that agreed to—[the prosecutor] got it—

"THE COURT: Nope, I got it in writing.

"[Defense counsel]: Yeah, yeah."

At side bar to discuss challenges for cause, defense counsel then challenged the prospective juror for cause, stating, "I think [the prospective juror] thinks I screwed him because I didn't sign it . . . . [H]e may take it out on my client." The court denied the challenge for cause. When voir dire resumed, defense counsel exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse the prospective juror. In so doing, defense counsel told him, "And if I didn't sign off on it, I apologize . . . . [I]t was an oversight."

After voir dire ended for the day, the court received a note from a second prospective juror asking to be excused due to "prejudice against the defense counsel." When questioned about his prejudice, the second juror explained to defense counsel:

[PROSPECTIVE JUROR]: ". . . When you said, I signed off that you did not have to come back, you were excused. [¶] . . . [¶] You said that. The judge held up a piece of paper and said, no, you didn't. You retorted by saying, yes, I did, adamantly. You retorted by saying, no, you didn't, it's right here on a piece of paper. And you shook your head no.

"Well, to me, when I saw this, and he does that, I'm saying as a defense attorney, you're lying, I have no—you have no credibility in my mind.[¶] . . . [¶]

"You'll say and do anything to win your case, therefore I have total prejudice toward you.

"Now if that was an honest mistake, that's a totally different situation. And that's all. And I think the jury pool may have been tainted by this bantering back and forth, in my opinion."

The second juror further testified that he felt the body language of the other jurors conveyed their agreement with his views. However, the second juror also stated defense counsel's credibility would be restored if defense counsel explained his confusion and oversight. The court excused the second juror for cause.

In response to the second juror's comments, defense counsel asked the court to admonish the prospective jurors that his failure to sign the hardship request was an "honest mistake." The court refused, stating it did not know defense counsel's reasons for not signing the request, but allowed defense counsel to address the jury and explain the situation himself. During the following day's voir dire, defense counsel apologized to the jury for his choice of words. He also explained that the previous day he had genuinely believed he had signed the excused juror's hardship request.

Notwithstanding his apology, shortly before the prosecution commenced its case, defense counsel moved for a mistrial based in part upon his belief that the court's comments had irreparably prejudiced the jury against him and, by inference, Martinez. The prosecutor replied that the jury seemed receptive to defense counsel's apology and she did not believe the jury pool was tainted. The court denied the motion.

B. Standard of Review

We review a trial court's ruling on a motion for mistrial for an abuse of discretion. (People v. McLain (1988) 46 Cal.3d 97, 113.) "`A mistrial should be granted if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [Citation.] Whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. [Citation.]'" (People v. Wallace (2008) 44 Cal.4th1032, 1068.)

C. Governing Law

The propriety and prejudicial effect of a judge's comments are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. (People v. Sanders (1995) 11 Cal.4th 475, 531-532.) Judges must be discreet in what they say and do in front of a jury so as not to appear to favor one side or other. (See People v. Zammora (1944) 66 Cal.App.2d 166, 210.) In particular, it is improper for a judge to air negative personal views about the competence, honesty, or ethics of the trial attorneys. "When the court embarks on a personal attack on an attorney, it is not the lawyer who pays the price, but the client." (People v. Fatone (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 1164, 1175.)

However, in cases involving judicial mistreatment of counsel, "`[i]t appears from the decisions . . . that appellate courts are unlikely to view one or two disparaging remarks as grounds for reversal. A pattern of judicial hostility seems to be required.'" (People v. Fatone, supra, 165 Cal.App.3d at p. 1175, citing People v. Jackson (1955) 44 Cal.2d 511, 521; see also People v. Strum (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1218, 1238 [trial judge engaged in pattern of disparaging defense counsel and defense witnesses and frequently interposed objections to defense counsel's questions]; People v. Zammora, supra, 66 Cal.App.2d at p. 209 ["more or less constant bickering and quarreling with counsel by the court"].)

D. The Trial Court's Comments Show No Impropriety

Here, the trial judge did not engage in a continuous pattern of judicial hostility against defense counsel. The court offered an accurate, if unsolicited, summary of the hardship request: the court denied it because defense counsel did not sign it. (See People v. Boyette (2002) 29 Cal.4th 381, 459-460 [no judicial misconduct where the trial court's comment was a correct factual statement and did not prejudice the jury].)

Though the court's correction did not cast defense counsel in the best light, the comments did not rise to the level of a continuous pattern of disparagement.

Martinez contends that notwithstanding the accuracy of the trial court's statement and despite defense counsel's explanation, irreparable prejudice remained. In particular, she relies on the second juror's views about counsel. We find no such irreparable prejudice. Counsel's explanation of his mistake is of some significance in light of the second prospective juror's statement that if defense counsel's failure to sign the hardship request was an honest mistake, then "all credibility is restored." In addition, there is no evidence to suggest that, following counsel's explanation, any other prospective juror felt prejudice towards defense counsel. Given all these circumstances, the court did not abuse its discretion in denying Martinez's motion for mistrial.

II

Prosecutorial Misconduct

Martinez contends the prosecutor committed misconduct during her closing argument when she insinuated defense counsel coached Martinez in her testimony. Martinez asserts this violated her Sixth Amendment right to confrontation and her right to effective assistance of counsel. We disagree.

A. Background

During closing argument, the prosecutor stated:

"[Martinez] testified initially that she left the house because she was in fear. However, the mention of a gun for the first hour and a half of her testimony never came up. . . . [¶] . . . [¶] She never mentioned the gun until after lunch. Until after she had a chance to meet with her defense team, then all of a—"

Defense counsel objected, explaining: "It's suggesting that defense spoke to [Martinez] over lunch hour and told her what to say. That's absolutely untrue, and it's insulting to me. And there's no evidence presented to that effect. And the fact of matter is my client—[¶] . . . [¶] My client was taken away by law enforcement to have lunch and I left the courtroom."

The court overruled the objection, noting counsel is "allowed to argue a reasonable inference from the evidence." The prosecutor then continued her argument: "If you were taken away at gunpoint, would you forget to tell the jury that? For an hour and a half? [¶] Would you suddenly remember that after your lunch break? . . . [¶] We had coaching the entire time. At 1:30 all of a sudden: [¶] Did you forget anything? How were you taken out? [¶] Oh, yeah, he had a gun."

Although the trial court had overruled defense counsel's objection, before the mid-morning break, the court admonished the jury: "It's proper to argue if the defendant is inconsistent with her story. It's not proper, really, to talk about the defense attorney or disparage him. So you should really ignore her remarks about the defense attorney. [¶] You can consider what the defendant did on the stand. I didn't want to interrupt her at that moment." (Italics added.)

B. Governing Law

A prosecutor's conduct violates the Fourteenth Amendment "when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process." (People v. Morales (2001) 25 Cal.4th 34, 44.) Under California law, a prosecutor who uses "deceptive or reprehensible methods of persuasion" commits misconduct and a conviction is reversible if "`it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the defendant would have been reached without the misconduct.'" (People v. Wallace, supra, 44 Cal.4th at pp. 1070-1071.) In order to preserve a claim of misconduct, a defendant must object and ask the trial court for an admonition. (People v. Doolin (2009) 45 Cal.4th 390, 444.) When an admonition was given, we presume it was heeded by the jury. (People v. Burgener (2003) 29 Cal.4th 833, 874.)

One way in which a prosecutor may commit misconduct is by attacking defense counsel's integrity or honesty. (People v. Hill (1998) 17 Cal.4th 800, 832.) "`An attack on the defendant's attorney can be [as] seriously prejudicial as an attack on the defendant . . . .'." (Ibid.)

C. The Prosecutor's Comment Was Improper

Martinez argues the prosecutor acted as her own unsworn witness when she argued Martinez received testimony coaching. Martinez claims this statement allowed the jury to assume the prosecutor relied upon facts outside of the jury's knowledge. 2

We disagree. Here, the prosecutor did not act as an unsworn witness. She did not add her statements as evidence at trial, nor did the prosecutor indicate she had private knowledge of defense counsel's actions during the lunch break. Instead, the record clearly shows the prosecutor attempted to impugn Martinez's credibility by inferring from the record testimony coaching over the break.

On the other hand, we agree accusations of "coached testimony" should be avoided when there is no evidence of coaching. (See People v. Thomas (1992) 2 Cal.4th 489, 537.) We also note that here there is very little to suggest coaching. After lunch, defense counsel asked Martinez, "Did [Sanchez] come [to the house] with anything?" Martinez responded, "Yes, he came with a gun." This simple answer does not demonstrate any coaching. Rather, at most it suggests that during the break defense counsel reflected about his client's testimony and asked the question to insure the jury had some evidence of coercion. This possibility and a total lack of other evidence of coaching made the prosecutor's remarks about coaching improper.

D. Any Error in the Prosecutor's Comments Were Harmless

Even though the prosecutor's comment was improper, it did not reach the level of prejudicial misconduct sufficient to deprive Martinez of her right to a fair trial and thus does not warrant reversal.

First, the court admonished the jury to disregard the prosecutor's remarks about defense counsel. Absent clear evidence to the contrary, we presume the jury heeded the trial court's admonition. 3 (People v. Burgener, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 874, see also People v. Wash (1993) 6 Cal.4th 215, 263.) Second, the prosecutor's comment was isolated. (Compare Berger v. U.S. (1935) 295 U.S. 78, 89 [new trial must be awarded where prosecutor's misconduct was pronounced, persistent, and prejudicial rather than slight or confined to a single instance]; People v. Hill, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 821 [prosecutor displayed "constant barrage" of unethical conduct, including misstating the evidence, making sarcastic and critical comments about defense counsel, and lying].)

Finally, the prosecutor presented substantial evidence against Martinez. Martinez led police on a reckless, high-speed chase while Sanchez shot at police out of the car's window. The chase ended in the death of both Sanchez and an entirely innocent member of the public. Martinez never attempted to abandon Sanchez, despite the two stops during the chase. After the fatal collision, Martinez resisted arrest and lied to Detective LeClair about her identity at the hospital. Even after Martinez revealed her true identity, she never stated Sanchez had forced her to drive him. Instead, she told LeClair that Sanchez was her boyfriend and she fled with him because they both had warrants. Considering the totality of the evidence against Martinez, it is not reasonably likely Martinez would have received a more favorable verdict absent the isolated improper comment.

III

Voluntary Intoxication Instruction

Martinez contends the court improperly restricted the jury's consideration of voluntary intoxication to the charge she aided and abetted Sanchez's evasion of the police. She argues the jury should have also been allowed to consider voluntary intoxication when determining her culpability for aiding and abetting Sanchez's assaults on the police. We disagree.

Voluntary intoxication was relevant with respect to Martinez's culpability as a knowing and intentional aider and abettor of Sanchez's evasion of the police who were attempting to apprehend him. However, her intoxication was not relevant with respect to her culpability for the assaults as the natural and probable consequence of the evasion. Thus the trial court properly restricted consideration of intoxication to the evasion count.

It is worth noting that because the jury found Martinez guilty of evading the police, the jury necessarily rejected her intoxication defense with respect to that count and no doubt would have rejected it had it been allowed as a defense to the assault counts.

A. Background

The trial court instructed the jury that a defendant can be found guilty of a crime either as the actual perpetrator of the crime or as an aider and abettor. The trial court instructed the jury that an aider and abettor is someone who knowingly and intentionally assists the perpetrator of a crime. The trial court further instructed the jury that to be guilty of evasion of a police officer a person must specifically intend to evade the police.

The trial court instructed the jury more narrowly and specifically with respect Martinez's culpability for Sanchez's assaults. The court advised the jury that "if the evidence establishes aiding and abetting of one crime, a person can also be found guilty of other crimes during the commission of the first crime." The trial court went on to instruct the jury that if it found Martinez guilty of evading a police officer, it could also find her guilty of Sanchez's assaults, but only if it also found the assaults were the natural and probable result of the evasion.

The trial court also instructed the jury with respect to intoxication. The trial court instructed the jury it could consider Martinez's intoxication in determining whether Martinez knowingly and intentionally aided and abetted Sanchez in evading police or whether she herself specifically intended to evade police. The trial court instructed the jury it could not consider Martinez's intoxication in determining whether Sanchez's assaults were the natural and probable consequence of the evasion.

In her argument, the prosecutor departed somewhat from these instructions. Although the trial court's instructions permitted the jury to find Martinez guilty of Sanchez's assaults solely on the theory that the assaults were the natural and probable consequence of the evasion, the prosecutor argued that the jury could also find Martinez guilty of the assaults by finding that she knowingly and intentionally aided and abetted the assaults themselves. In his argument, Martinez's counsel did not contest this departure from the trial court's instructions, but instead argued that there was no evidence Martinez had any idea Sanchez would start shooting at police. Defense counsel further argued that the assaults were not the natural and probable consequence of an attempt to evade police.

B. Governing Law

When, as was the case here, there is evidence a defendant knowingly and intentionally aided and abetted a confederate in a target crime, the defendant's intoxication is relevant and the defendant may offer evidence of intoxication as a means of showing the absence of such knowledge or intent. (People v. Mendoza (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1114, 1131-1133.) On the other hand, when in addition to being liable for a target crime, a defendant may also be liable for a second crime committed by the confederate on the theory the second crime was the natural and probable consequence of the target crime, intoxication is not relevant in determining the defendant's guilt of the second crime. (Id. at p. 1133.) "Defendants may present evidence of intoxication solely on the question whether they are liable for criminal acts as aiders and abettors. Once a jury finds a defendant did knowingly and intentionally aid and abet a criminal act, intoxication evidence is irrelevant to the extent of the criminal liability. A person who knowingly aids and abets criminal conduct is guilty of not only the intended crime but also of any other crime the perpetrator actually commits that is a natural and probable consequence of the intended crime. The latter question is not whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, it was reasonably foreseeable. [Citation.] Intoxication is irrelevant in deciding what is reasonably foreseeable." (Ibid.)

Although not required sua sponte, when requested and relevant to the charges against a defendant, an instruction on intoxication must be given. (See People v. Castillo (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1009, 1014-1015.)

C. The Trial Court's Instructions Were Proper

Here, the trial court acted properly in instructing the jury that it could consider intoxication with respect to Martinez's liability as an aider and abettor of Sanchez's evasion. (See People v. Mendoza, supra, 16 Cal.4th at p. 1133.) Her liability either as an aider or abettor of the target crime of evasion or as a perpetrator of the evasion required proof of knowledge and intent and hence under either theory her intoxication was relevant to her liability for the evasion. (Ibid.)

However, an intoxication instruction was not appropriate with respect to the question of whether Martinez was liable for Sanchez's assaults as the natural and probable consequence of the evasion. The foreseeability of the assaults as a consequence of the evasion was an objective matter and intoxication was not relevant with respect to what was objectively reasonable. (People v. Mendoza, supra, 16 Cal.4th at p. 1133.) Thus the trial court also acted properly in instructing the jury that it should not consider intoxication with respect to the assaults as the natural and probable consequence of the evasion.

Although the trial court instructed the jury that it could only reach the question of Martinez's liability for the assaults if it found her guilty of the evasion and then it could only find her guilty of the assaults if it found the assaults were the natural and probable consequence of the evasion, as we have noted, in her argument the prosecutor suggested Martinez was also liable for the assaults on the theory the record showed Martinez knew about Sanchez's intention to shoot police and intended to aid and abet him in doing so. As we have also noted, Martinez's counsel did not object to this theory, but instead simply argued that there was no evidence Martinez knew Sanchez would start shooting and intended to aid and abet the shootings.

Arguably, under the additional theory of liability for the shootings advanced by the prosecutor, intoxication was relevant and an instruction advising the jury that it could consider intoxication as to that theory would have been appropriate. People v. Mendoza makes it plain that intoxication is relevant where a crime requires knowledge and intent. (People v. Mendoza, supra, 18 Cal.4th at p. 1132.) However, instead of either objecting to the prosecutor's argument or requesting an additional intoxication instruction, Martinez's counsel elected to confront the prosecutor's theory on the basis there was no evidence in the record to support it. Thus on this record Martinez may not object to the absence of a pinpoint intoxication instruction or to any impropriety in the prosecutor's argument. (See People v. Castillo, supra, 16 Cal.4th at p. 1014 [no sua sponte duty to give pinpoint intoxication instruction]; People v. Doolin, supra, 45 Cal.4th at p. 444 [objection to prosecutorial misconduct required].)

Moreover, even if we were to ascribe to the trial court some error or to counsel some inadequacy in failing to ask for an additional instruction, 4 on this record we cannot find that Martinez was prejudiced. Having been instructed on intoxication as a defense to the evasion count, the jury rejected it. It would be highly unlikely that the jury would find that Martinez's intoxication did not prevent her from knowing and intending to aid the evasion but did interfere with her ability to know and intend to aid the shootings.

IV

Cumulative Error

Martinez contends the cumulative impact of trial errors deprived her of her due process right to a fundamentally fair trial. We disagree.

We have identified only one relatively minor error—the prosecutor's suggestion defense counsel had coached Martinez—and found that it did not prejudice Martinez.

DISPOSITION

The judgment of conviction is affirmed.

WE CONCUR:

HALLER, J.

AARON, J.