The Riverside County Sheriff's Department is investigating a fatal shooting involving two of its deputies in Indian Wells on Monday.

Sheriff Chad Bianco said the incident began with an encounter between two drivers near Highway 111 and Simon Drive in La Quinta.

One driver pulled into a parking lot close to that intersection and was followed by the driver of a black Mercedes, who was later shot, Bianco said.

"He went back to the victim's vehicle," Bianco said. "Had the handgun in his hand, beat on the window with the handgun, yelled at him asking if he wanted to die. There were some more words exchanged. He got in the car and left."

The driver of the Mercedes, displaying paper Arizona license plates, left while the other driver called 911, Bianco said.

The man in the Mercedes pulled into the entrance to Desert Horizon Country Club, about four to five miles west of where the incident began on Highway 111.

"He approached the gate. The gate was locked," Bianco said. "He told the attendant that he needed to get through because the cops were chasing him, they opened the gate."

The man entered the property and made a U-turn before encountering the two deputies, who fired after the Mercedes driver pulled out a gun, Bianco said.

The driver's name is being withheld, according to the sheriff's department. Officials added a gun was recovered but Bianco said Arizona officials have no records of his vehicle.

The shooting was reported at 7:25 a.m., sheriff's department spokeswoman Megan McDonald said. Both deputies are on administrative leave. No other injuries have been reported and there's no threat to the public, officials said.

One lane of westbound Highway 111 in Indian Wells was closed while police investigate the death. Police did not say when the lane might open and suggested motorists might want to use an alternate route.

The Desert Sun received a copy of an email sent to Desert Horizons homeowners from the homeowner's association general manager Karen Bennett stating that she had been told by sheriff's officials that there was a police pursuit down Highway 111 that ended at the front gates to the community between 7 and 8 a.m. Monday.

HOA officials had no further confirmed information, except that it appeared no one from Desert Horizons was injured.

The gates are secured, and all vendors, including pool cleaners, will be turned away at the gate, homeowners were told.

Throughout Monday morning, curious pedestrians and bicyclists along Highway 111 inquired about the law enforcement activity. Fear and confusion set in later in the day once details were disclosed.

"The thought of someone pulling into a country club and getting shot, that's scary," Indian Wells resident Dennis Austin, 73, said moments after walking past the scene. "This entire thing is surreal."

Second deputy involved shooting in a month

It is the second deputy-involved shooting in the Coachella Valley in a month. On Jan. 29, Riverside County sheriff's deputies fatally shot 60-year-old Javier Magdaleno following a pursuit that began in Thousand Palms.

Sheriff's deputies were dispatched to the 39000 block of Washington Street in Thousand Palms to investigate reports that a woman had run into a local business and said her estranged husband had threatened to kill her.

The woman said he was armed with a rifle.

When deputies arrived, Magdaleno fled the area in a red Ford pickup truck. Sheriff's deputies and California Highway Patrol officers gave chase, which ended when the truck — after turning south along Avenue 48 in La Quinta — struck an unrelated pickup and went off the side of the road just north of Jefferson Street.

The shooting is under investigation.

Desert Sun reporter Colin Atagi covers crime, public safety and road and highway safety. He can be reached at colin.atagi@desertsun.com or follow him at @tdscolinatagi. Support local news, subscribe to The Desert Sun