A man who authorities said shot at police after a high-speed pursuit died early Wednesday in Hesperia after officers returned fire.

Three people in a nearby house were also struck by gunfire during the exchange but are expected to recover, according to the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department.

The man who died remained unidentified as of Wednesday afternoon.

The shooting occurred at 1:42 a.m. Wednesday after a chase on Interstate 15 involving the California Highway Patrol entered surface streets.

The CHP officers gave chase to a white Ford Expedition driven by a man suspected of shooting at people in a vehicle Tuesday evening, authorities said. The Expedition exited the freeway at Bear Valley Road, and CHP requested assistance from Hesperia sheriff’s deputies.

The driver reportedly struck a spike strip set up by police at the intersection of Bear Valley Road and Cottonwood Avenue, but he kept driving and later returned to I-15 and headed south.

He then exited onto Main Street and continued to flee, albeit with a flattened tire, sheriff’s officials said.

The man eventually stopped the Expedition in the area of Peach Avenue and Catalpa Street. Authorities said the man refused to get out of the vehicle despite CHP officers and deputies' attempts to negotiate with him.

Less-than-lethal methods were used to get the man to comply, but officials said those were unsuccessful.

“After more than an hour of negotiating, the suspect got out and ran to the front of the vehicle and began shooting at the officers, then ran while he continued to shoot at them,” the sheriff’s department said. “At this time, an officer involved shooting occurred and the suspect was struck.”

The man was pronounced dead by emergency personnel. A woman in the vehicle was uninjured, authorities said.

Moments later, a 911 caller reported that three people had been hit by gunfire at a house on Catalpa Street. Authorities did not initially respond when asked if the victims were hit by gunfire from the man or police.

The sheriff’s department said Wednesday that one of the victims, a man, had been treated at a local hospital before being released. The two other victims — a woman and 14-year-old boy — remained hospitalized Wednesday afternoon, but were expected to recover.

A handgun was recovered at the scene, authorities said.

No officers or deputies were injured during the shooting, according to a CHP spokesman.

CHP Officer Michael Mumford said three of the agency’s officers were placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation into the shooting.

The sheriff’s department said in a statement that one deputy was involved in the shooting. A spokesperson did not immediately respond when asked if the officer had been placed on leave.

Investigators from both the sheriff’s department and CHP are conducting the investigation.

Daily Press reporter Martin Estacio may be reached at 760-955-5358 or MEstacio@VVDailyPress.com. Follow him on Twitter @DP_mestacio.