Police identify shooting suspect killed in standoff

A person suspected to have shot someone in downtown Baltimore and was shot by officers Thursday night died at a hospital, Baltimore Police Commissioner Michael Harrison said.

City police said they are investigating a police-involved shooting in the 600 block of Lombard Street.

The commissioner said two officers with the Inner Harbor unit were flagged down around 9:22 p.m. in the area of Market and Pratt streets, where a non-fatal shooting just occurred.

#breaking officer involved shooting lombard st downtown. Heavy police presence. Lombard and pratt shut down #wbal @wbaltv11 pic.twitter.com/N4xH4axJU5 — Kim Dacey WBAL (@kimdaceywbal) February 26, 2021

Harrison said one officer stayed with the victim to render aid while multiple other officers in the area pursued a perpetrator who fled into the Harbor Park Garage. Harrison said they believe the perpetrator is the shooter responsible in the non-fatal shooting.

"The officers gave chase to that suspect into the garage, and while ordering that suspect to place his hands into the air while on the ramp into the garage, the suspect turned around, produced a handgun and attempted to fire that handgun. What we believe right now is that that handgun misfired and multiple officers fired at that suspect," Harrison said.

Police body camera footage backs up officers story- they were chasing a suspect from a non fatal shooting when he pulled out s gun. Multiple officers opened fire killing him. #breaking #wbal pic.twitter.com/EME5PoA2sm — Kim Dacey WBAL (@kimdaceywbal) February 26, 2021

The perpetrator, later identified as 35-year-old Benjamin Tyson of Baltimore died at a hospital. The victim of the original shooting is in stable condition at an area hospital.

Harrison said he, along with the mayor and investigators, reviewed body-worn camera video that showed what transpired. He said a handgun was recovered at the scene.

"This is another example of our police officers being where they were supposed to be, being engaging, doing their job being folks who rush to the scene of violence and render aid and try to apprehend a suspect through to be involved in those acts of violence," Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott said.

According to the Baltimore City Fraternal Order of Police, it did not appear that any officers were injured.