The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating a deadly police shooting near Braham, Minnesota Sunday after police say a stolen vehicle call in Blaine led to a pursuit.

According to the Blaine Police Department, one person was shot and killed by police and another was arrested after the pursuit. Police say the suspects fired, hitting a K9 from the Anoka Police Department. Another officer was hospitalized with injuries suffered in an initial incident with the suspects in Blaine.

A man was shot and killed by law enforcement Sunday along Highway 65 near Braham, Minnesota after a theft report led to a police chase and crash. (FOX 9)

Police say the shooting and pursuit were the end result of a call to a department store in Blaine Sunday afternoon for a stolen vehicle. There, the suspects fled officers and carjacked another vehicle nearby, according to police.

"The officers upon arriving located the suspects in a stolen vehicle and the suspects fled from officers at that location," explained Chief Brian Podany.

Steve Lund says he was dropping his wife off at Kohl’s when he saw Blaine police officers pull up on a car parked just outside the store.

"They were able to take off and they were chasing them through the aisles in the parking lot for, I guess, it seemed pretty quick but they were chasing them through the lot and they were able to escape," recalled Lund.

The suspects were able to get to another parking lot. "The suspects then, with the use of a gun, carjacked a vehicle nearby," added Chief Podany. "Our officers then located that vehicle and the suspects fled as we attempted to stop them."

In the newly stolen vehicle, police say the suspects took off going north on Highway 65.

Investigators have blocked off Highway 65 after Sunday afternoon's shooting. (FOX 9)

"Due to the severity of the crimes, the officers pursued the vehicle north on Highway 65," the police chief said.

Police would not say how fast they were driving or how long it took them to get about 40 miles up the highway near the City of Braham, only that it ended with the suspects' vehicle being disabled.

"After the vehicle became disabled, two adult males fled the vehicle, and shots were fired," said Chief Podany. "A canine from Anoka was shot at this point and one of the suspects was shot here at the scene and pronounced deceased at the scene."

Anoka police confirmed their K9 Bravo was shot during the incident. He is currently in stable condition.

The other person in the vehicle was taken into custody. Police said they were not injured.

A Blaine police officer was hospitalized with some minor injuries they got during the initial incident in Blaine.

Hwy. 65 was closed all afternoon as investigators worked to investigate the scene.

Police have not yet identified the suspect who was shot and killed.