CRAIGSVILLE - An elderly man was killed late Thursday night in an Augusta County crash.

The driver, Ronald A. Colvin, 87, died at the scene.

The Augusta County Sheriff's Office said the deadly crash occured during a pursuit of Colvin. Speeds reached 100 mph during the chase.

The sheriff's office said an Augusta County deputy was headed westbound Thursday shortly before 11 p.m. in the 2900 block of Parkersburg Turnpike (Va. 42) in Swoope when he noticed a vehicle quickly approaching him from behind.

The deputy checked the vehicle’s speed with radar and determined it was going 75 mph. The vehicle tailgated the deputy, who was operating a marked cruiser, before passing him on a solid double-yellow line and accelerating to 85 mph, the sheriff's office said.

The deputy activated his emergency equipment in an attempt to stop the vehicle as the pursuit began.

Disregarding the deputy, the suspect continued to recklessly operate the vehicle by improperly passing another motorist, the sheriff's office said, and was driving on the wrong side of the road while maintaining speeds of 80 to 100 mph.

As the suspect vehicle entered the town limits of Craigsville at a high rate of speed, the driver lost control of the car while in a curve, the sheriff's office said.

Virginia State Police said Colvin was behind the wheel of a 1993 Lincoln Town Car when it ran off the right side of Va. 42 and struck a mailbox in Craigsville, a press release said.

The car went into a spin back across the roadway and ran off the left side of Va. 42 before striking a ditch. The car went airborne and hit a second ditch, which caused it to flip over onto its side and strike a utility pole, police said. The car came to rest on its wheels in the entrance way of a retail store parking lot.

The pursuing deputy approached the crashed car. He found Colvin severely injured and pinned inside the wreckage. Emergency crews extracted him and began life-saving efforts.

The pursuit lasted approximately eight minutes and went a distance of about 12 miles.

Virginia State Police said Colvin's license listed him as a Craigsville resident. The sheriff's office said he was from Swoope.

After the crash, the sheriff’s office received information from a witness who reported they had been tailgated and passed in a no-passing zone by the same vehicle on Va. 42. Authorities believe this took place just before Colvin passed the deputy.

Virginia State Police said the fatal crash remains under investigation.

“Our condolences go out to Mr. Colvin’s family and friends. We are still investigating the events that led to this deadly crash, and we are deeply saddened by the tragic outcome," Augusta County Sheriff Donald Smith said.

To subscribe, visit www.newsleader.com and click "subscribe" at top of page.

More:Clerks, complexes and COVID effects on court: Here are Staunton City Council highlights

Brad Zinn is the cops, courts and breaking news reporter at The News Leader. Have a news tip? Or something that needs investigating? You can email reporter Brad Zinn (he/him) at bzinn@newsleader.com. You can also follow him on Twitter.