BARRINGTON — A 58-year-old resident was found dead inside a home Tuesday evening after an hours-long standoff with police that started with a shot being fired at a town police officer, according to police.

Daniel Peavey, of 33 Cortland Way, was deceased and the only person found in the residence, authorities said. Police did not immediately state the cause of Peavey's death. No officers discharged their firearms during the incident and no officer-involved injuries were sustained, police said.

A Barrington officer attempted a welfare check at the home about 1:30 p.m., police said, and was met with gunfire from inside the home. The officer, whose identity was not released Tuesday night, "took evasive action and positioned himself a safe distance from the residence, where he was able to request additional resources," police stated.

Policy decisions:New Hampshire debates deadly force by police, civilians

New Hampshire State Police, the Strafford County Regional Tactical Operations Unit, and the Seacoast Emergency Response Team responded, and a perimeter was established around the residence, police said. After several hours and multiple unsuccessful attempts to contact Peavey, police said, tactical unit members made entry into the residence and found a dead man later confirmed to be Peavey, police said.

Police evacuated homes on Cortland Way and closed down a portion of nearby Tolend Road near the busy Route 125 roadway out of precaution Tuesday afternoon during the incident, Barrington police Sgt. Amanda Barber said.

During the incident, Barber said she was limited in what she and her department could share about the active standoff, but she noted in early reports there was "no danger to the public" and no one had sustained any injuries.

Barber said it was unclear whether there were other individuals inside the Cortland Way home, which is located inside a mobile home park, as of 4 p.m.

Members of the Barrington Police Department were assisted at the scene by members of State Police troopers, the State Police Bomb Squad, Strafford County Regional Tactical Operations Unit, Seacoast Emergency Response Team, Strafford Police Department, Rochester Police Department, Barrington Fire and EMS, Strafford County Sheriff’s Department and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

This incident remains under investigation. Police ask anyone with information to contact Detective Sgt, John Kelly of the New Hampshire State Police at (603) 223-8490 or John.Kelly@dos.nh.gov.