A man suspected of a triple homicide in Ohio has died after a March 1 shootout with Detroit police outside an east side motel.

The man, identified as Chandra Moore, 55 from Ohio, died Friday morning, Detroit Police Sgt. Nicole Kirkwood confirmed Sunday.

Cincinnati police had issued an arrest warrant for Moore, who was accused of shooting five people, killing his wife and two others on Feb. 28, a Cincinnati Police Department spokesperson previously confirmed to the Free Press.

More:Man suspected of triple homicide in Ohio flees to Detroit, opens fire at officers

More:Three dead in Sunday Evanston shooting, suspect in critical condition in Detroit, police say

After the Cincinnati shootings, Moore drove to Detroit and stayed at Rivertown Inn & Suites on Jefferson Avenue, Detroit Police Chief James Craig said following the shootout. The Detroit Police Department learned of his location and waited until Moore exited the building to take action.

Moore left the motel building about 9:50 a.m. and walked toward his car, Craig said.

Moore then spotted the police and unsuccessfully fired shots at the officers, Craig said. Police shot back several times.

Officials listed Moore in critical condition following the shooting. No officers were injured.

According to the Cincinnati Enquirer, the shooting Moore was accused in was the first mass shooting in Ohio and Cincinnati in 2021.

More:No charges coming against Dearborn police officer in deadly shooting of man

More:Whitmer kidnapping plot hearing live feed: Confidential FBI informant testifies

His wife, Brittany Wagoner, 28, was killed. The other homicide victims are Wagoner's brother Timothy Dugar, 33, and Andrew Wesley, 35, the Enquirer reported.

Also injured were a 17-year-old man and a 51-year-old man, according to a news release from the Cincinnati Police Department.

Detroit and Cincinnati police officials have not said why Moore fled to Detroit.

Staff writer Omar Abdel-Baqui contributed to this report.

Contact Slone Terranella at STerranella@freepress.com and follow her on Twitter @SloneTerranella.

Support local journalism here.