HOUSTON – A robbery suspect is dead and a bystander’s baby was injured after an officer-involved shooting Wednesday, Houston police said.

Officers said the shooting happened in the 7900 block of Southwest Freeway around 11:35 p.m.

According to the Houston Police Department, officers spotted a vehicle that was suspected in a robbery. The suspect failed to yield and a pursuit ensued, police said.

Investigators said the chase went onto Beltway 8 and then onto the Southwest Freeway feeder road. The suspect then crashed and stopped at a gas station, Jack’s Grocery, at 7931 Southwest Freeway, police said.

“People need to think about other people’s lives before they do things,” said Jack Abdullah, the owner of the gas station.

Officers said the suspect then got out and jumped into another vehicle, where a mother was attempting to put gas in her vehicle. When they approached the suspect, police said they spotted a weapon.

Police said a 15-year HPD veteran officer fired multiple shots at the suspect, killing him.

Surveillance video of the incident was released by Jack’s Grocery:

During the incident, investigators said a 1-year-old baby was hit by gunfire while sitting in the back seat.

Police said officers tried to give medical treatment to both the baby and suspect before EMS arrived. The child was transported to the hospital by ambulance in stable condition, according to a release.

“That lady and her son have to go through this. It’s very troubling, and I feel sorry for the family,” Abdullah said.

According to investigators, no officers were injured during the incident.

Jack’s Grocery released the following statement on the shooting:

“In an effort for complete transparency with our community that we have served through this location for over 17 years, we are releasing the surveillance video from this terrible tragedy. We have been fully cooperative with the police. We stand with the community today as we extend our heartfelt sympathy for this child and his mother.”