El Paso police are investigating a deadly officer-involved shooting during a domestic violence call Sunday evening in the far East Side.

The shooting occurred during a confrontation between officers and a suspect in a family violence call who was armed with a shotgun, police said.

Adam Bruce Connors, 32, was shot by police and was taken to a hospital, where he died, police said Monday.

The shooting occurred after 6 p.m. in the 3400 block of Sunset Rose Drive near Saul Kleinfeld Drive and Edgemere Boulevard.

The shooting occurred on a snowy Valentine's Day when a winter storm blanketed El Paso with snow amid freezing temperatures.

The incident began after police were dispatched to the home on a family violence call regarding a man with a shotgun, according to a police news release issued Monday.

Connors left the scene in a vehicle before officers arrived and police then received a call of a possible suicidal person involving Connors, police said.

Police found Connors and attempted to pull him over, leading to a short car chase, which was called off by a supervisor because of the potentially dangerous road conditions, police spokesman Sgt. Enrique Carrillo said.

Carrillo said that Connors was later found as he was on foot approaching the home on Sunset Rose armed with the shotgun.

There was an adult and six children ranging in age from 2 to 12 years old inside the home, police said.

One officer fired his patrol rifle and shot Connors "to prevent him from entering and the possibility of a hostage situation or potential loss of innocent lives of persons inside the residence," according to a police statement.

Officers rendered first aid and Connors was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

The name of the officer in the shooting was not disclosed. He was described as a being with the El Paso Police Department for five years and is assigned to the Pebble Hills Regional Command.

The shooting is the fourth involving El Paso police this year. Two of the shootings were fatal.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at 915-546-6102; dborunda@elpasotimes.com; @BorundaDaniel on Twitter.

Downtown police shooting:El Paso officials identify man wounded in police shooting outside The Tap Bar

Tejas police shooting:El Paso driver shot by police jailed on 6 assault counts

Subscriber exclusive:El Paso man killed in police shooting threatened mass shooting, 'suicide by cop'