DEWITT TWP. — A suspect who sent bullets flying through a residential neighborhood on Friday morning, striking several houses and at least one vehicle, took his own life after police surrounded his home and tried to negotiate his surrender, a police official said.

DeWitt Township police Chief Mike Gute confirmed the suspect – a 38-year-old man – was found dead inside the house on Friday afternoon, some 10 hours after the incident began.

The man's name was not immediately released.

Police were called about 4 a.m. Friday to the area of 1300 Mayfield Drive for a report of shots fired at a vehicle, Gute said. The vehicle had been hit by a bullet.

The man initially was outside, "firing at vehicles and anything that was moving ..., so it was quite an intense situation right from the start," the chief said.

Police set up a perimeter to contain the man inside his home, Gute said. Officers had a line of communication with the suspect, but that ended about 7 a.m. Friday.

"We did everything we possibly could ... to try to get the person to come out peacefully without any issues or problems," the chief said.

Dispatchers sent an alert to residents in the area, advising them to remain in their homes and go to their basement if possible.

Police said they didn't believe the man was targeting anyone in particular and didn't know what prompted him to start shooting. They said they had interacted with him in the past, but not for anything severe.

"I don't know what caused him to go into a rage," Gute said.

Multiple houses were struck by bullets, although residents didn't report it right away because they were unaware of it, he said.

Police found two AR-15-style rifles and a handgun inside the house, Gute said on Friday afternoon, noting that officers hadn't completed their search.

At the request of police, Consumers Energy cut off electrical service to the house – a tactic commonly used to encourage barricaded suspects to come out, Gute said.

Police sent remote vehicles into the house and determined the man was incapacitated before officers went inside, he said. Nobody else was inside the house during the standoff, he said.

Police agencies from at least three counties responded to help DeWitt Township police, including Bath Township, Clinton County Sheriff's office, East Lansing, Eaton County Sheriff's Office and the Michigan State Police.

Matthew Dae Smith contributed to this report.

Contact reporter Kara Berg at 517-377-1113 or kberg@lsj.com. Follow her on Twitter @karaberg95.