BULLOCH COUNTY, Ga. (WSAV) – The Georgia Bureau of Investigation says a man was shot dead by multiple law enforcement officers after a kidnapping and chase Sunday.

According to the GBI, the man has been identified as Kelly Bowen of Vienna, Georgia. He was 51.

Bowen was shot in Bulloch County by law enforcement officers from multiple jurisdictions, the GBI said, including Georgia State Patrol, Tattnall County Sheriff’s Office, Reidsville Police Department, Evans County Sheriff’s Office, Candler County Sheriff’s Office and Bulloch County Sheriff’s Office.

After the shooting, Bowen was medevaced to Memorial Health in Savannah where he died.

The incident began around 11 a.m. on Rabun Avenue in Reidsville. Investigators say the Tattnall County Sheriff’s Office and the Reidsville Police Department were dispatched to the area for a home invasion and kidnapping at gunpoint.

The GBI says the family of the hostage followed Bowen and the victim from Reidsville to Collins. At one point, Bowen fired shots at the hostage’s family, according to the agency.

In Collins, law enforcement officers intercepted the pursuit, which continued into Candler County on Interstate 16. There, the GBI says Bowen fired at Georgia State Patrol, grazing a trooper’s head.

As the chase continued, officials say Bowen attempted to ram multiple officers. Law enforcement tried to stop the suspect multiple times using the PIT maneuver before successfully stopping him on the side of I-16 in Bulloch County.

The GBI says Bowen then took the hostage at gunpoint from the vehicle over a fence on the edge of the interstate and into the backyard of a home.

Investigators say the hostage was able to escape from Bowen there before he was shot by law enforcement officers.

During the shooting, someone in a nearby residence was struck by gunfire and suffered a minor injury.

According to the GBI, the hostage is physically OK and the trooper grazed during the chase survived.

Bowen’s body will be taken to the GBI Medical Examiner’s Office in Pooler for an autopsy. Once the agency completes its investigation, which was requested by GSP, it will be turned over to the Ogeechee Circuit District Attorney’s Office for review.