A man shot by a Danville police officer last week has died from his injuries, authorities said Thursday, and a well-known civil rights attorney said his office will be investigating the incident on behalf of the man’s family.

Tyrell Wilson, 32, had been in a hospital since the March 11 shooting. Authorities said Wilson was a transient who stayed in the vicinity of a park-n-ride lot in Danville. The Contra Costa County Office of the Sheriff said in a statement Thursday that Wilson died while at the hospital.

“The Office of the Sheriff recognizes the impact an event like this can have on the community and is committed to full transparency of all the facts,” the statement said.

In a prior statement after the shooting, Sheriff’s Office spokesman Jimmy Lee said Wilson pulled out a folding knife when confronted by Officer Andrew Hall.

Hall ordered Wilson “several times” to drop the knife, Lee said. Wilson “then advanced toward the officer, who discharged his weapon striking the subject once.”

Police had been called to the area of Sycamore Valley Road and Camino Ramon around noon.

According to Lee, officers received calls from more than one motorist that a man was throwing rocks off the overpass of Sycamore Valley Road onto Interstate 680.

Hall is the same officer who shot and killed a man in 2018. In that Danville incident, Hall fired more than one shot and killed 33-year-old Laudemer Arboleda, of Newark.

The office of civil rights attorney John Burris said Thursday evening in a statement that Wilson’s family has retained him “to investigate the circumstances surrounding (Wilson’s) death at the hands of Danville Police Officer Andrew Hall.”

Burris said Wilson’s parents “are concerned that the officer’s statements are not totally truthful,” and said an “independent witness disputes the officer’s account” of what happened in the lead up to the shooting.

Burris said the witness claims Wilson “did not advance on officer Hall as reported by the Danville Police Department.”

The Wilson family said “their son has suffered for years with a mental impairment,” Burris’ statement said.

Burris represents the family of Arboleda, as well. In 2019, he filed a lawsuit on behalf of Arboleda’s mother in connection with the 2018 shooting, which remains in litigation.

Authorities said Hall fired as Arboleda tried to drive a vehicle through a gap between two law enforcement patrol cars. A sheriff’s office investigation determined that Hall acted in a “legal” and “proper” manner in the 2018 shooting.

In last week’s shooting, the sheriff’s office said Hall hit Wilson with one gunshot, but authorities have not specified how many times Hall fired his gun.

Hall is on paid administrative leave from the sheriff’s office, per the agency’s protocol. Police in Danville are contracted through the sheriff’s office.

“Sheriff’s investigators continue to work with the District Attorney’s Office on investigating this incident pursuant to the countywide law enforcement involved fatal incident protocol,” the Sheriff’s Office statement said.

Please check back for updates.