A driver was fatally shot by an officer after striking several police vehicles multiple times Tuesday morning while attempting to leave the parking lot of a Motel 6, Hayward police said.

Officers were attempting to detain the occupants of a blue Volvo that matched the description of the suspect vehicle that fled officers on Monday, police said. A Volvo with white paper license plate on the rear bumper had been identified as the suspect vehicle in the recent robbery of an elderly woman.

A vehicle matching the description had been spotted Monday by officers patrolling an area where several similar robberies had been committed since December and the driver and occupants sped away when officers tried to detain them, police said.

An investigation led officers to the Motel 6 in the 30000 block of Industrial Parkway Southwest, where officers attempted to detain the occupants of a car matching the description of the Volvo. An officer fired at the driver of the car after he struck police vehicles multiple times, police said. The driver died of his injuries at a local hospital.

Get a weekly recap of the latest San Francisco Bay Area housing news. Sign up for NBC Bay Area’s Housing Deconstructed newsletter.

His identity is being withheld pending notification of next of kin, police said.

An officer was hospitalized for non-life-threatening injuries, police said.

“We are not releasing the identity of the involved officers at this time as this is an active investigation," police said in a statement.

"Anytime Hayward Police Officers use force, regardless of the degree, it is a serious matter that requires a thorough investigation," police said. "We are in the process of gathering evidence and conducting interviews of witnesses as well as those involved in this incident. The Hayward Police Department and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are conducting simultaneous investigations into this incident. Once these investigations are completed, this matter will be referred to the State of California Office of the Attorney General for review."

The department said it has investigated at least 12 robberies since December involving the theft of purses from lone females, including several that led to injuries to the victims. "Other jurisdictions throughout the Bay Area have experienced similar crimes during the same time frame," the department said.

Anyone with information about the case and investigation is asked to call Detective Kell at (510) 293-7176.

We are currently investigating an Officer Involved Shooting at Motel 6 in the 30000 block of Industrial Pkwy SW. Please stay clear of the area and we will release details as soon as possible. We appreciate the community’s patience. — HaywardPD (@HaywardPD) March 16, 2021

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.