Deputies were responding to a call about a man armed with a knife and acting erratically, according to Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzales.

A man believed to be armed with a knife was shot and killed Wednesday by deputies outside a gas station in the Cypress area, according to Sheriff Ed Gonzalez.

The sheriff’s office tweeted about the incident, which happened in the 12900 block of Telge Road, just after noon.

Deputies were responding to a call about a man armed with a knife and acting erratically, according to Gonzales. He had blood on his clothing but it's not clear where it came from.

Investigators said the first officer struggled with the suspect, and at some point, a Taser was used. When two additional officers arrived at the scene, Gonzalez said both discharged their weapons during the scuffle. It's unclear how many times each deputy fired or how many times the suspect was hit.

CPR was performed at the scene, and then paramedics brought the suspect to an area hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

The victim's identity was not immediately released. Sheriffs said he is a man in his late 20s or early 30s.

Gonzalez said some sort of knife, or possibly an ice pick or other tool with a handle, was found at the scene.

It's possible the man had gotten into a confrontation with someone before officers arrived. They're hoping that person will come forward for questioning.

None of the three officers, which included a field trainer and their trainee, was injured. Gonzalez added the trainee had served with another law enforcement agency, so he is experienced.

They've been placed on administrative duty pending the investigation.

Gonzalez offered his condolences to the victim's family and promised the incident would be thoroughly investigated.

PRELIMINARY INFO: Deputies were called to a convenience store in the 12900 block of Telge Road in reference to a knife-wielding man. A deputy wounded the man, who is now receiving medical treatment. PIO is en route and updates will be provided at the scene. #hounews pic.twitter.com/MtxQ9nag7L — HCSOTexas (@HCSOTexas) March 17, 2021