Anne Arundel County police are investigating a shooting involving one of their officers who killed a man who was reported as suicidal.Investigators are trying to figure out what led to an officer opening fire on a man suffering from a mental health issue.County police said two officers were called around 11 a.m. Thursday to a house in the 7800 block of Bodkin View Drive in Pasadena after a mental health facility told police to check on a man who was suicidal.Police said the officers were able to get inside the house through an unlocked door and came face to face with a man holding a handgun."At that time, one officer discharged their service weapon, striking the armed subject," Anne Arundel County police Sgt. Kam Cooke said.First aid was given, but the man, who was described as an older, white man, died at the scene.Anne Arundel County police do not currently wear body cameras. Police also couldn't say whether the man pointed the gun at officers or if he fired it."We're really early on in the investigation, and in those finer details, we just don’t know at this time," Cooke said.On Friday, police identified the victim as Leonard John Popa, 79, who resided at the house where the incident occurred.The officer involved in the shooting is Corporal T. Brennan, a seven year veteran of the department assigned as a patrol officer in the Eastern District. A loaded 9 mm handgun was recovered from the scene.

Anne Arundel County police are investigating a shooting involving one of their officers who killed a man who was reported as suicidal.

Investigators are trying to figure out what led to an officer opening fire on a man suffering from a mental health issue.

Advertisement

County police said two officers were called around 11 a.m. Thursday to a house in the 7800 block of Bodkin View Drive in Pasadena after a mental health facility told police to check on a man who was suicidal.

Police said the officers were able to get inside the house through an unlocked door and came face to face with a man holding a handgun.

"At that time, one officer discharged their service weapon, striking the armed subject," Anne Arundel County police Sgt. Kam Cooke said.

First aid was given, but the man, who was described as an older, white man, died at the scene.

Anne Arundel County police do not currently wear body cameras. Police also couldn't say whether the man pointed the gun at officers or if he fired it.

"We're really early on in the investigation, and in those finer details, we just don’t know at this time," Cooke said.

On Friday, police identified the victim as Leonard John Popa, 79, who resided at the house where the incident occurred.

The officer involved in the shooting is Corporal T. Brennan, a seven year veteran of the department assigned as a patrol officer in the Eastern District.

A loaded 9 mm handgun was recovered from the scene.