UPDATE: An Angelo State University athlete has been arrested in connection to the fatal crash, and police released more details about the victims.

Just after 6 a.m. Thursday, a Chevrolet Equinox traveling south on South Bryant Boulevard exceeded speeds of 10 miles over the posted limit, which is 40 mph at that intersection. A police officer attempted to catch up, but the Chevrolet sped up and ran a red light, then collided with a tan-colored Explorer Sport Trac.

Two teenagers — a girl, 17, and a boy, 16, — died from crash-related injuries. The boy died at the crash and the girl succumbed to her injuries at the hospital. A 17-year-old driver was ejected from the Chevrolet and taken to the hospital with incapacitating injuries, along with two boys, 16 and 12 years old.

The Explorer had fled the area and was found abandoned on the West Loop 306 Frontage Road near Knickerbocker Road, according to the release. It was seized for processing and the front end damage was consistent with the crash, according to the release.

The Explorer's driver was later identified and located at a residence in the 2500 block of A & M Avenue.

Benjamin Elder, 24, was arrested at 12:45 p.m. Thursday on suspicion of accident involving death, according to online jail records. He remained in Tom Green County Detention Center with no bond listed as of 1:45 p.m. Thursday.

Elder is a junior pitcher with the Angelo State University Rams baseball team, according to angelosports.com. He previously played for Butte College in California.

This is an ongoing investigation and no additional information is available for release at this time.

SAN ANGELO — San Angelo police are searching for a vehicle involved in an early morning fatal crash Thursday, March 18, 2021.

According to Tracy Piatt-Fox, SAPD public information officer, a traffic officer was conducting traffic enforcement in the 1300 block of South Bryant Boulevard when he observed a grey SUV speeding southbound.

“When the officer attempted to safely catch up to the vehicle, he observed the SUV to run a red light and collide with another vehicle,” she said in a media briefing. “The driver of the second vehicle fled the scene.”

Police are searching for a light-colored 2001-2005 Ford Explorer Sport or Sport Trac with front-end damage that T-boned the speeding vehicle.

“The vehicle that was originally speeding southbound was occupied by five people. One of the passengers was located deceased at the scene. A second passenger who was transported to a nearby medical facility was pronounced deceased,” Piatt-Fox said.

Three other occupants are being treated for their injuries; the extent of their injuries are unknown at this time, according to Piatt-Fox.

Bryant and Ave. N north and south bound lanes were still closed as of 10 a.m. Thursday morning and are expected to remain closed for another hour.

If you have information about the suspect and vehicle location, contact the San Angelo Police Department at 325-657-4315.

To remain anonymous, tip online at http://bit.ly/SAPDTips247 or by text: text TIP SAPD to 888777 and follow the prompts.