The man sought by police in connection with a bomb threat to the Lebanon City Hall on March 2, died as a result of his injuries suffered in a car crash according to information released by the Montgomery County Coroner's Office.

On March 17, Lebanon Police Chief Jeffrey Mitchell said police had issued a warrant for the arrest of William Joseph Thomas, 38, of Waynesville, Ohio, charging him with making a terroristic threat, which is a felony.

Mitchell later learned that Thomas died as a result of injuries sustained in a car crash involving a Montgomery County Sheriff's deputy. Lebanon police were not aware of Thomas' death before issuing the warrant.

Montgomery County Coroner, Dr. Kent E. Harshbarger, has confirmed that Thomas was the individual who passed away following an car crash on Needmore Road and Wagner Ford Road in Harrison Township, Ohio.

"Mr. Thomas’ death was pronounced on March 16, 2021. The cause of death is blunt force trauma of the head. This case has been ruled an accident. This matter is under investigation by the Montgomery County Sheriffs Office," Harshbarger said in a statement.

A spokeswoman for the sheriff's office told The Enquirer Thursday that Thomas had been critically injured at approximately 5:28 a.m. on March 5 after a deputy responded to a call of a stolen vehicle from a Dayton area business and noticed a vehicle that matched the description.

"The deputy turned on the cruiser's lights and the suspect fled," the spokeswoman explained. "The suspect, who turned out to be Mr. Thomas, fled, and the cruiser's lights were turned off since the incident did not meet the criteria of a high-speed pursuit."

Thomas eventually T-boned another vehicle causing minor injuries to its passengers, and he was transported to a local hospital, eventually succumbing to his injuries according to the spokeswoman.

MORE: Lebanon police identify suspect in bomb threat

The March 2 bomb threat, made to city employees, resulted in the city building and surrounding businesses being evacuated and streets in the immediate area were closed to all traffic.

No device was located.

Officers from the Butler County Bomb Squad and the Mason Police bomb-detecting K-9 team responded to the scene on March 2 to assist with the investigation, according to police.