WADSWORTH, Nev. (KOLO) - MAR. 26 UPDATE: The Washoe Co. Regional Medical Examiner has identified the woman who died after the chase on I-80 as Georgianna Jackson, 22. Jackson was declared dead at the scene, but the cause of death has not been determined yet. The Medical Examiner’s Office did say Jackson’s Injuries do not appear to be related to the police chase.

MAR. 25 UPDATE: The man who is alleged to have rammed several police vehicles and then led police on a chase east on Interstate 80 has been identified as Michael Hunter, 27, of Sparks.

The Nevada Highway Patrol used spike strips to stop the vehicle Hunter was driving near Derby Dam.

Hunter surrendered to authorities. A female passenger in his car died at the scene. The Sparks Police Department said her death was being investigated and is not related to the chase or the apprehension.

Hunter was booked on charges of possession of a stolen vehicle, battery with a deadly weapon for ramming patrol vehicles, assault with a deadly weapon, eluding police and failing to appear on an arrest warrant.

Police released no other details about the incident and said the investigation continues.

The incident started in the area of the Nugget Resort Casino parking area.

6:40 P.M. UPDATE: All lanes of Interstate 80 are open, the Nevada Highway Patrol reports.

5:20 P.M. UPDATE: A stolen vehicle rammed through patrol cars in Sparks and led the Sparks Police Department on a chase, Public Information Officer Damon O’Connell said Wednesday.

The Nevada Highway Patrol used stop sticks to stop the vehicle in the Derby Dam area. A female passenger got out and was uncooperative. The female was injured from something not related to the crash at the end of the chase and died on the scene, O’Connell said. The cause of death is being investigated.

The incident started at about 2:35 p.m. on Nugget Avenue when police tried to pull over the stolen vehicle and it rammed through several police vehicles and went east on Interstate 80.

After the NHP stopped the vehicle, a male driver got out and cooperateded with police. The female was not cooperative.

One lane is expected to be closed for several more hours during the investigation, which is being handled by the Sparks Police Department.

4:05 P.M. UPDATE: Only the left lane is closed on Interstate 80. The right lane is open.

ORIGINAL STORY: Eastbound Interstate 80 is closed near the Derby Dam exit due to police activity, the Nevada Department of Transportation reports.

It is closed between mile markers 35 and 36, which is east of USA Parkway.

KOLO’s Abel Garcia is heading to the scene and reports traffic is backed up to McCarran Boulevard as of 3:40 p.m.

The closure happened just before 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

There is no estimated time to reopen.

The Sparks Police Department and other agencies are involved.

Copyright 2021 KOLO. All rights reserved.

Interstate 80 partially closed in the Derby Dam area. (Abel Garcia/KOLO)