DOVER — Two women close to the two Rochester men who died in a fiery crash earlier this month believe there is more to the story, saying they believe there was a police chase prior to the accident. The Dover Police Department, however, issued a statement Tuesday saying surveillance video proves no officers were attempting to stop or pursuing the vehicle at the time it crashed.

At 12:25 a.m. on March 18, an on-duty Dover police officer reported a BMW sedan had struck a utility pole and tree before being engulfed in flames. Joseph Bougie, 32, and Michael "Mike" Murphy, 22, were deceased at the scene of the crash on Sixth Street near Long Hill Road, police said.

Murphy's girlfriend Ashley Green, 21, of Dover, and a close friend of Murphy and Bougie Morgyn Ware, 22, of Dover, decided to do their own investigation, collecting text messages exchanged before the crash, Snapchat messages and accounts to create their own timeline of what occurred in Bougie and Murphy's final hours. They have been going to the site of the accident daily, spending time sifting through the leaves and dirt, literally digging for more answers.

Previous story:2 Rochester men killed in Dover Sixth Street crash

Green and Ware say the two men went to a Cara Irish Pub in Dover for a drink around 10:30 p.m. on St. Patrick's Day, providing text messages as evidence. At 11:55 p.m., Murphy messaged Green stating that they were trying to leave but police were by Bougie's BMW. Murphy messaged again at 11:57 p.m. noting Bougie went back into the pub, while he started the car to charge his phone. At 12:17 a.m. Murphy again messaged that he spoke with the police and in a series of messages, each a minute apart, he says they were driving away, Bougie is "running from popo," and finally at 12:20 a.m. he sends his last message: "They try pulling him over." After that, he didn't respond and the message thread went silent.

"I knew as soon as he stopped responding that something was wrong, because he was only a few minutes away," Green said. "I got worried and starting calling around to police stations to see if they were arrested. Mike's family called me the next morning. I remember his step-dad saying 'There's no easy way to tell you this,' and at that point I just knew. I can't be at peace myself knowing that there is more to it. They knew they had children to come home to, I know there's a reason why, they wouldn't just drive recklessly."

Thomas O'Dowd, owner of Cara's Irish Pub, said that while he could not comment specifically on the case due to the ongoing investigation, he did confirm Murphy and Bougie were there the night of the crash. He said the pub has cooperated with authorities to provide security footage of the time the two men spent in the establishment.

Green and Ware are asking questions: Why were they speeding? What happened with the police officer at the bar? Why did they miss the turn that would take them home?

The Dover Police Department, which has previously released very little information on the fatal crash due to the ongoing investigation, released a statement Tuesday that answers some of those questions.

On March 17, at approximately 11:35 p.m., two Dover police officers approached Murphy after he walked out of a bar downtown, according to police. The officers were familiar with Murphy from prior police contacts, according to police. Murphy was arrested just two days before his death, on three misdemeanor charges: driving after revocation and suspension, disobeying an officer, and circumventing an alcohol ignition interlock. Police said at the time that he was pulled over for driving a vehicle with darkened windows he did not own, but when he saw the police car turn around, he tried to evade the car.

According to police, when Murphy exited the bar, he was accompanied by Bougie, who, upon seeing the officers, abruptly turned around and walked away. The officers spoke with Murphy after he entered the passenger seat of Bougie's black 2010 BMW sedan. The officers learned that the vehicle was registered to Bougie, who had active warrants from other jurisdictions for disobeying a police officer, reckless operation, speed, and violation of a court order, and suspected that Murphy was travelling with him. Police said Murphy refused to identify the male that walked away as Bougie. The officers checked the area for Bougie but were unable to locate him. Officers reported having observed the BMW leaving the area but lost sight of it in the area of Sixth Street.

Several minutes later, an officer observed a similar vehicle traveling at a high rate of speed on Glenwood Avenue near the intersection with Sixth Street, police said. The officer turned on his blue lights and reversed direction to attempt to stop the vehicle as it proceeded northbound on Sixth Street through the intersection of Indian Brook Drive. Based on the speed of the vehicle, the officer followed department policy and discontinued the attempt to stop in the area of JD Howard Dental at 375 Sixth St., police said.

Police stated, "The fact that the officer discontinued this attempt to stop has been confirmed by nearby surveillance footage as well as police vehicle data."

Step-father raises questions, too

Ralph Rosenberger, who is Murphy's step-father, said several things "don't add up."

"The biggest question I'm left with is 'Why?'" Rosenberger said. "Knowing that Bougie would come out eventually, why didn't police just sit in front of the car, or block them in? Why let them drive off? Why not go into the bar and grab Bougie? If they had done that our kid would be here still. Bougie may be in jail for a short time, but both boys would be here, alive."

Ware and Green, also say there are still questions to raise. They said the last locations on Murphy's phone do not match up with the police account.

"We just want answers," Ware said. "We cannot continue to grieve until we know the truth."

According to police, the investigation has definitively concluded that no officers were attempting to stop or pursuing the vehicle at the time it crashed. Dover police said they do not anticipate releasing any further information until the toxicology results are available.

Dover police Lt. Scott Pettingill said the department will not release the surveillance video they say shows there was no chase, nor do police have any further comment at this time.