A motorist was killed in Highland after suspects who had fled police ran a red light and struck three vehicles in an intersection on Saturday, March 27, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department said.

Joshua Williams, 27, from San Bernardino and his passenger Marcus Johnathan Campbell, 35, from Barstow were arrested on Saturday in the intersection of Pacific Street and Victoria Avenue. They were arrested on suspicion of charges including murder, evading a peace officer, negligent discharge of a firearm and felon in possession of a firearm, the Sheriff’s Department said.

At about 6:20 p.m., deputies were dispatched to the 25300 block of Baseline Street for a report of two people in a Honda sedan brandishing a firearm. A nearby deputy arrived within minutes and contacted the suspects.

The suspects were uncooperative and drove away at high speed, prompting a short vehicle pursuit, the Sheriff’s Department said. However, the pursuit was terminated after a deputy was involved in a crash at Del Rosa Avenue and Pacific Street. The pursuit ended so the other driver in the crash could be tended to.

Williams allegedly continued driving at speeds estimated between 80 to 100 MPH and a handgun and ammunition were thrown out near a residence in the 25500 block of Pacific Street. A fired cartridge was found and a bullet struck a residence, believed to be either fired by one of the suspects as it was thrown out or when it landed on the ground, the Sheriff’s Department said.

Williams continued to flee and entered the intersection of Victoria Avenue against a red traffic light and collided with a 2005 Suzuki sedan that was going north on Victoria Avenue, the Sheriff’s Department said.

The suspects attempted to flee on foot but were detained by deputies who responded to the second collision. The second crash happened over a mile away from where the deputy terminated the pursuit and no deputies were pursuing the Honda when it collided into the Suzuki, according to the Sheriff’s Department.

The driver of the Suzuki sedan sustained major injuries and was transported to a local hospital where she succumbed to the injuries from the second crash at 7:20 p.m., according to the San Bernardino County Coroner’s Office. The coroner’s office identified the driver as 58-year-old Paulette Samuel of Highland.

Both suspects received moderate injuries from the crash and were treated at a local hospital.

Anyone with information regarding the incident was urged to contact the Sheriff’s Department, also known locally as the Highland Police Department, at 909-425-9793.