2 people were found dead after police were called to a domestic-related incident in Northeast Miami-Dade which led to an exchange of gunfire.

NORTHEAST MIAMI-DADE, Fla. – 2 people are dead after police were called to a domestic-related incident in Northeast Miami-Dade, according to Miami-Dade police.

At least 3 SWAT vehicles and a heavy police presence were on the scene early Saturday morning. According to Miami-Dade police, officers responded to a duplex at Northeast 143rd Street and 14th Avenue near Dixie Highway.

A person inside the house and officers exchanged gunfire, according to police. The subject then barricaded himself inside and the Special Response Team was called. SRT gained entry into the home and discovered a man, 26, and woman, 24, with gunshot wounds. Both were dead at the scene, according to authorities.

Kathia Fevrier told Local 10 News she is the aunt of the woman killed. While detectives are still working to find out what led up to her niece’s death, she said the man, who barricaded himself inside the home was the one who shot her before turning the gun on himself.

“I guess he shot himself after police got involved because he was shooting with them as well,” she said.

Fevrier said it was her niece, 24-year-old Stephanie Lacrete, who had just graduated from Florida Atlantic University that was killed. She said Lacrete had just begun a relationship with a man they didn’t know.

“This is just sad. I don’t think anybody would want to feel the pain that we as a family are feeling. For somebody to just take somebody’s life away like that . . . I don’t know.”

No officers were struck by bullets, however, one of them sustained a knee injury and was transported to a local hospital.

An investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement has been launched because officers discharged their weapons.

When Local 10 News crews arrived around 5 a.m., SWAT was leaving the scene.

Throughout the morning Saturday, there was still plenty of police presence and a Miami-Dade County police mobile command unit was brought in as officers focused their attention on the two-story duplex. Crime scene detectives were seen walking in and out of the unit.

Several marked police cars blocked off the street at Northeast 143rd Street and Dixie Highway, however traffic at busy Dixie Highway was not affected.

Local 10 News spoke to a driver who was passing through the area and pulled over when he spotted police.

The man, who did want to be identified, said he heard police calling over a loudspeaker for two people to come out.

“The officer or detective, whoever, came on the loudspeaker and called out a male name and a female and said ‘Oh, we just want to make sure you guys are ok. Can you please come out? Turn on a light if you can hear us. We know you’re inside, just come out and let us know that you’re safe.’ "

He said police continued to use the bullhorn for about 10 to 15 minutes before eventually backing down.