SAN ANGELO — A San Angelo teen is facing criminal charges in connection to a fatal crash last week that killed two other teens and a 12-year-old.

On Friday, March 26, 2021, police identified Antonio Jose Gonzales as the 17-year-old driver they say was involved in a fatal crash at Avenue N and South Bryant Boulevard during the early morning hours of March 18.

Gonzales has been charged with two counts of Evading Arrest Detention Causing Death, a news release stated.

Prior to the crash, Gonzales was operating a gray Chevrolet Equinox traveling south on South Bryant "exceeding speeds of ten miles per hour above the posted speed limit," the release stated.

Officials said Gonzales has been incarcerated in the Tom Green County Jail since March 19, 2021, on unrelated charges. His bond was set at $150,000, according to online jail records.

Additional charges are pending the outcome of this ongoing investigation.

Fatal crash leaves three dead, two arrests

About 6:05 a.m. March 18, 2021, a police officer conducting traffic enforcement noticed a speeding gray Equinox going southbound on Bryant Boulevard. The officer turned on the emergency lights of their vehicle and the SUV accelerated, according to court documents.

The Equinox ran the red light at Avenue N, and a tan Explorer Sport Trac pickup "T-boned" the SUV, causing the Equinox to spin and collide with a light pole.

Police said Gonzales was ejected from the vehicle.

The Equinox held four other passengers, all of whom were injured. Two passengers — Donaven Byers, 16, and Alexis Sorrola-Villamil, 17, died soon after the crash.

A justice of the peace declared Byers died at the scene and Sorrola-Villamil died at Shannon Hospital. Two more passengers, a 16-year-old and a 12-year-old, were transported to the hospital.

The boy, 12, died at Cook Children’s Medical Center in Fort Worth about 4:17 p.m. Friday, March 26, 2021.

Others are reading:12-year-old San Angelo boy dies, becomes third fatality from crash

Police arrested Gonzales on March 19 on charges of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. The evading charges were added later. Gonzales was the second arrest in connection to the crash.

On March 18, police arrested Benjamin James Elder, 24, was arrested on suspicion of accident involving death. He was released the next day from Tom Green County Detention Center on a $30,000 bond, according to online jail records.

According to Texas law, a person can be charged with accident involving death if they do not stop, return to the area, determine if a person needs help or does not remain at the crash.

Others are reading:Police: Angelo State athlete admits he fled from fatal crash, teens identified

What we know about the March 18 crash

Video showing the crash revealed the Explorer pickup continued westbound without stopping, according to an arrest affidavit. Police asked for the public's help locating the pickup, and the call was answered later that day.

A resident reported the Explorer pickup had been left unattended on West Loop 306, east of Knickerbocker Road. It was registered to an Angelo State University baseball pitcher, and the university parking permit gave an address.

Police met with Elder in the 2500 block of A&M Street, where he told police he had driven the Explorer pickup during the crash and fled, records state.

Alana Edgin is a journalist covering Crime and Courts in West Texas. Send her a news tip at aedgin@gannett.com.