BRISTOL, Va. (WJHL) – Virginia State Police were on the scene of a fatal officer-involved shooting in Bristol, Va. Tuesday morning.

According to Bristol, Virginia Police Captain Maynard Ratcliff, the officer-involved shooting occurred at the intersection of Euclid Avenue and Gate City Highway.

No officers were injured in the shooting, according to Ratcliff.

According to a press release from VSP, the man who died as a result of the shooting was identified as Jonathen B. Kohler, 31, of Bristol, Tennessee.

The initial 911 call came in from an occupant at the motel reporting shots being fired at 3:17 a.m., Ratcliff said.

Residents at the Rodeway Inn told News Channel 11 they heard gunshots just after 3 o’clock, Tuesday morning.

One person said it felt like the shots were being fired in his room.

Witness, Jamie Nunn said, “When I heard it, I was like, ‘Oh, wow.'”

Jamie Nunn’s Tuesday morning started with a loud bang outside of his front door. He tells me he woke up to about a dozen gunshots..

The Bristol, Virginia resident said, “It sounded like it was up on the second floor, like somebody was inside of the room and had gotten shot.”

The Rodeway Inn resident says he’s still startled by what he saw Tuesday morning.

Nunn said, “Next thing you know, I looked outside and all I see is the commotion. I see everything go on, I see the cops, I see the guy trying to run them over. It was a big ordeal, considering the fact that it was mostly the guy that was trying to, I guess get out of the situation.”

The car the suspect used was a red 1994 Ford Mustang. According to Virginia State Police, the suspect refused to exit his vehicle after officers said their commands. Authorities say he then put the Mustang into drive and sped toward one of the officers.

“The officer had to discharge his weapon, killing the suspect. No officers were injured, no other suspects involved,” Bristol, Virginia Police Department Captain Maynard Ratcliff said.









“Kohler refused to exit his vehicle, despite repeated commands by the officers,” the release reads. “He then put the Mustang into drive and sped towards one of the officers. The officer fired at the suspect vehicle as it came at him.”

Kohler died at the scene, according to VSP.

BVPD confirmed the officer involved has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the investigation.