WICHITA FALLS (KFDX/KJLT) —Update: 4:19 p.m. March 31, 2021

DPS officials are confirming the identity of the motorcyclist killed Tuesday in Wichita Falls following a chase in Clay and Wichita Counties.

DPS Sergeant Dan Buesing said Gage Allen Salsman, 28, died in the crash. Salsman is from Henrietta. Buesing said he was not wearing a helmet.

According to court records, Salesman had previously faced drug charges out of Clay County, Denton County and Cooke County, as well as assault charges out of Clay County.

WICHITA FALLS (KFDX/KJTL) — Update: 6:31 p.m. March 30, 2021

One law enforcement official said he learned a Clay County deputy tried to pull the motorcycle over in Henrietta, but the driver began throwing apparent narcotics out from his pockets.

Deputies said as they pulled up closer, he would yell to quit chasing him and sped back up.

They alerted Wichita Falls police and the sheriff’s office who set up to wait for chase to arrive.

When he approached Kell and Scott, the witness said he put his head down and gunned cycle to beat the red light, and collided with the westbound SUV on Kell.

The driver speed was up to 93 mph and said he died on impact.

The Chevy SUV was occupied by a male driver, a female passenger, and 5 to 6 kids. The female is also 5 months pregnant.

She was checked at the hospital and is said to be ok and one child suffered a busted lip.

Update: 5:36 p.m. March 30, 2021

Multiple agencies are still on the scene at East Scott and Kell Blvd after a motorcycle driver led authorities on a chase from Clay County before running a red light and crashing into an SUV.

The driver of the motorcycle did not survive the collision.

According to one witness who was at the intersection when the collision happened, the motorcycle burst into flames.

DPS Sgt. Dan Buesing said everyone in the SUV is okay.

They’re now waiting for the Justice of the Peace to arrive.

Continue to stick with Texoma’s Homepage for updates.

Multiple agencies are responding to a chase that has ended in a fatal crash in Wichita Falls.





Photo Courtesy of Lisa Roffman

Photo Courtesy of Lisa Roffman

Photo Courtesy of Lisa Roffman

A motorcycle involved in a chase from Clay County ended at East Scott and Kell when the driver of a motorcycle crashed into an SUV.

Stick with Texoma’s Homepage as this story develops.