Aurora – A report released Tuesday in the death of Jamaal Bonner, who was shot three times in the back by police in 2003, questioned several police tactics but did not say the department was at fault.

Instead of carrying a handgun, the report noted, the first SWAT officer who entered the motel room after Bonner had sold crack cocaine to an undercover officer was carrying an MP-5 submachine gun, which is a semi or fully automatic rifle.

Also, police stopped taping the incident after Bonner sold the crack, so none of the events leading up to his death were recorded.

The report, compiled by a tactical review board from the Aurora Police Department and a SWAT expert from the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, urged that undercover prostitution and drug stings, from first contact to arrest, be videotaped to ensure police actions can be thoroughly reviewed as necessary.

Aside from the suggestion that the lead SWAT officer wear a handgun instead of carrying a rifle, other recommendations include reviewing whether arrests should be made on streets or in hotel rooms during stings, and whether undercover officers should be armed to protect themselves.

Police Chief Dan Oates said he would adopt the nine recommendations from the report.

“I think there was a need for this kind of introspection,” Oates said at a news conference Tuesday afternoon at the Aurora Municipal Center.

Hours earlier, Oates met with Bonner’s mother and went over the report’s findings. After the meeting, Brenda Bonner said the department seemed intent only on avoiding blame.

“It’s a shame,” she said. “They need to own up to their mistakes.”

Attorney Darold Killmer, who is representing the Bonner family in its federal lawsuit against the city, said the report was full of inaccuracies, though he did not give specifics. He also questioned why so much force was used in a prostitution and drug sting.

“They admitted arming officers with submachine guns at the point of entry is excessive,” Killmer said. “All we want them to do is tell the truth. For three years they have refused to tell the truth. Hopefully, this is the first step.”

Bonner, 20, was killed Dec. 3, 2003, after police conducted a prostitution sting at the Top Star Motel on East Colfax Avenue.

An undercover female police officer posing as a prostitute approached Bonner, who was driving a sport utility vehicle police said was stolen, and asked him if he was “looking for a date,” the report said. Bonner said he was “looking for work,” street slang for buying and selling crack cocaine.

After Bonner sold the officer $60 worth of crack, Bonner reportedly “agreed” to accompany the undercover officer to a motel room, but the report did not say why. Family members contend Bonner did not want to go to the room.

In the room, the officer signaled for four uniformed officers, who swooped in to make an arrest. When they entered, police said, Bonner had his back toward them and was reaching inside the waistband of his pants.

One of the SWAT officers, thinking he was reaching for a gun, pushed Bonner against a wall and a “violent fight” ensued, police said. Bonner spun away and reached into his pants again, and that’s when SWAT officer Bill Woods shot Bonner with a single round from his MP-5.

At the same time, the report said, another officer used a Taser stun gun on Bonner, but his baggy clothes stopped it.

Bonner continued to struggle while being asked to show his hands. When he didn’t, Woods, who believed he may have been reaching for a weapon, shot him two more times, according to police.

Bonner did not have a weapon in his pants. Police found several small bags with crack.

Bonner’s family is suing the city, claiming police unjustly killed Bonner.

His father, Bobby Bonner, said police continue to blame his son because he had a prior criminal record, which includes resisting arrest and auto theft.

“They’re making him look bad in order to justify what happened in that room,” he said.

A grand jury cleared the officers in the shooting. But Oates said he wanted to take another look at the case, so in January he created a review board to examine current police practices for future events similar to the Bonner shooting.

No discipline against officers will result from the report.

City Councilman Ryan Frazier defended the officers involved in the shooting but said he supports the recommendation for more videotaping of stings.

“There are no winners,” Frazier said. “That said, based on the verified findings, I have to believe our officers acted within reason given the circumstances.”

Staff writer Carlos Illescas can be reached at 303-954-1175 or cillescas@denverpost.com.