Man dies during exchange of gunfire with police in Claremont, AG's office says

A man is dead after he exchanged gunfire with police in Claremont on Wednesday evening, according to the state attorney general's office. Law enforcement officers, including members of the New Hampshire State Police SWAT team and Claremont police, responded to a home at 247 Sullivan Street for a report of gunshots being fired, officials said.Authorities said a man, later identified as Jeffrey Ely, 40, had barricaded himself inside the address. Gunfire was later exchanged between the Ely and 6 members of the New Hampshire State Police SWAT team resulting in Ely's death, officials said.Officials released Ely's autopsy results Thursday and determined that his cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds to the head, neck, arms, legs and torso. Deputy Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Mitchell Weinberg concluded that Ely's manner of death was homicide.It's unclear how many shots were fired, but officials said no law enforcement or other people were injured during the incident, authorities said.The troopers involved did not have body or dashboard cameras, officials said, but the Claremont city manager said most, if not all, of the city's police officers and cruisers are equipped with cameras.According to officials, no further information will be released until formal interviews with the Troopers involved are completed.

A man is dead after he exchanged gunfire with police in Claremont on Wednesday evening, according to the state attorney general's office.

Law enforcement officers, including members of the New Hampshire State Police SWAT team and Claremont police, responded to a home at 247 Sullivan Street for a report of gunshots being fired, officials said.

Advertisement

Authorities said a man, later identified as Jeffrey Ely, 40, had barricaded himself inside the address.

Gunfire was later exchanged between the Ely and 6 members of the New Hampshire State Police SWAT team resulting in Ely's death, officials said.

Officials released Ely's autopsy results Thursday and determined that his cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds to the head, neck, arms, legs and torso. Deputy Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Mitchell Weinberg concluded that Ely's manner of death was homicide.

It's unclear how many shots were fired, but officials said no law enforcement or other people were injured during the incident, authorities said.

The troopers involved did not have body or dashboard cameras, officials said, but the Claremont city manager said most, if not all, of the city's police officers and cruisers are equipped with cameras.

According to officials, no further information will be released until formal interviews with the Troopers involved are completed.