NASHVILLE, Tenn. (WTVF) — After several hours, a standoff situation in South Nashville has ended after Metro police say they found the suspect dead by an apparent suicide.

BREAKING: @MNPDNashville say they found Michael Lynn Tucker dead inside his motel room.

They breached the room earlier and say he died from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Tucker never spoke to negotiators who attempted for hours to bring him in peacefully.@NC5 — Levi Ismail (@LeviAIsmail) April 1, 2021

U.S. Marshals, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation and Metro police were involved in the situation at the La Quinta Inn on Sidco Drive. Marshals were attempting to arrest 48-year-old Michael Lynn Tucker, who had been tracked to that location. Tucker was added to the state's most wanted list earlier this week after he was accused of killing three people in Memphis on March 26.

When U.S. Marshals got to the door, someone inside fired at least three shots. Police said officers never fired back, but they did deploy tear gas at some point, but received no response.

Sidco Dr. is shut down beyond Harding Place as @MNPDNashville say one man shot at US Marshals in the area.



It’s believed the wanted man is still in the motel nearby. More details to come.@NC5 pic.twitter.com/5NvibYN07l — Levi Ismail (@LeviAIsmail) April 1, 2021

MNPD SWAT & negotiator teams are working to bring fugitive Michael Tucker, 48, into custody at the La Quinta Inn on Sidco Dr. He is wanted for killing 3 people in Memphis on 3/26. U.S. Marshals announced themselves outside the room this morning. 3 shots were fired from inside. pic.twitter.com/u6H0U8KR8N — Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) April 1, 2021

Metro police set up a perimeter at the motel, and negotiators were on scene. Police said Tucker never spoke to negotiators who attempted for hours to bring him into custody peacefully.

TBI said Tucker was wanted by the Memphis Police Department on three counts of first-degree murder, two counts of criminal attempted first-degree murder and weapons charges.

TBI

🚨#MostWanted Alert🚨 We need your help locating Michael Lynn Tucker! He's wanted by TBI and @MEM_PoliceDept on three counts of First Degree Murder, two counts of Criminal Attempt First Degree Murder and weapons charges.



Seen him? 1-800-TBI-FIND



Follow this thread for more info pic.twitter.com/DurcyotEMz — Tennessee Bureau of Investigation (@TBInvestigation) March 29, 2021

After 3 p.m. Thursday, SWAT members breached the motel room and found Tucker dead on the floor from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.