ROCK ISLAND, Ill. (KWQC) - The suspect in last night’s officer-involved shooting has been identified by the Rock Island County coroner.

The coroner tells TV6 25-year-old DeShawn Tatum died after being shot by police. The preliminary autopsy shows he died of a gunshot wound to the head and chest.

Shortly before 6:30 p.m., officials say police in Rock Island saw a wanted suspect, who has been identified now as Tatum, who was considered armed and dangerous. This was in the area of 12th Street and 31st Avenue.

Officials say as officers went to approach Tatum when he ran away while in possession of a gun. Tatum was followed to a nearby gas station where officials say Tatum hijacked a car from a bystander.

As officers tried to remove Tatum from the car, officials say he began to drive in reverse, dragging several police officers. That’s when officers fired their weapons.

Tatum and three officers were taken to the hospital for treatment of injuries . Tatum died and the three officers were treated and released.

According to officials, they did recover a gun from the scene.

A white car was seen with bullet holes in the windshield. (TV6 Staff)

After the shooting, people were seen gathering at Unity Point Trinity Hospital in Rock Island. Police were guarding at least one of the entrances to the hospital.

UnityPoint Health - Trinity released a statement late Thursday night following a gathering at the Rock Island location.

“We are aware of a gathering of people and law enforcement outside our Trinity Rock Island campus. For everyone’s safety, we are asking our neighbors and fellow community members to avoid the area until further notice.”

A group of people gathered at Unity Point Trinity after an officer-involved shooting. (TV6 Staff)

The Rock Island County Integrity Task Force has been activated and will be conducting the investigation of the officer-involved shooting. The involved officers have been placed on administrative leave per standard department protocol.

Anyone with information related to this case is asked to contact the Rock Island County Integrity Task Force at 309-752-4915, the Rock Island Police Department at 309-732-2677, or Crime Stoppers at 309-762-9500.

TV6 has filed a formal request for body camera and dash camera video of the incident. We have also contacted friends and family DeShawn Tatum and are waiting to hear back.

Copyright 2021 KWQC. All rights reserved.