An unidentified man has been fatally shot by Barstow Police after authorities said he fired at two officers in a Montara Road neighborhood on Wednesday afternoon.

In a statement on social media, the Barstow Police Department said officers responded to the 700 block of Montara Road shortly before 3:30 p.m. Wednesday after receiving a report of a man who threatened the reporting party and "gestured to her as if he had a weapon."

The block is located south of Interstate 40 and the Walmart Supercenter. Montara Elementary School, Montara Park Purdy’s Quality Meats and Holiday Homes Mobile Home Park are also located on Montara Road.

Upon arrival, the officers "gave verbal commands" to the man as he walked toward a trailer, but he did not comply, according to Barstow Police.

The man then turned toward the officers and allegedly started shooting at them with a handgun. The officers returned fire, which struck him. The social media post did not state the part of the body where the man was hit.

Officers tended to the man's wounds until Barstow Fire Protection District personnel arrived on scene and pronounced him dead, according to Barstow Police.

After the shooting, Barstow Police contacted the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department’s Homicide Team to conduct the criminal investigation.

"An administrative investigation was also initiated to determine if the officers performed their duties within policy," Barstow Police said.

Per Barstow Police Department policy, both unidentified officers were placed on administrative leave pending the results of the investigation.

Multiple inquiries seeking additional information on Thursday were not answered by Barstow Police or the sheriff's department.

The sheriff's department's Coroner's Division had not released the man's name as of Thursday afternoon.

Anyone with any information regarding Wednesday's shooting is asked by the Barstow Police Department to contact Sergeant Daniel Arthur at 760-256-2211 or 760-255-5170.

Those wishing to remain anonymous can call the We-Tip Hotline at 1-800-78CRIME (27463) or leave information at www.wetip.com.

Daily Press reporter Rene Ray De La Cruz may be reached at 760-951-6227 or RDeLaCruz@VVDailyPress.com. Follow him on Twitter @DP_ReneDeLaCruz.