The Douglas County Coroner has identified the man as 23-year-old Samuel Yeager.

Example video title will go here for this video

DOUGLAS COUNTY, Colo. — The Douglas County Coroner's Office has identified 23-year-old Samuel Yeager as the man shot and killed during an incident with Douglas County deputies, Saturday night.

Yeager was shot and killed following an interaction with Douglas County sheriff's deputies near Interstate 25 and Happy Canyon Road, according to a tweet from the sheriff's office (DCSO).

Deputies responded to Happy Canyon Road near the highway around 6:15 p.m. Saturday for a report of a man with a gun. That's about three miles north of Castle Rock.

Body camera footage (below) released by DCSO shows deputies instructing Yeager to put his gun down multiple times. Yeager did not respond to requests from deputies and instead laid on his stomach on the ground, pointed his gun at deputies and began shooting.

No deputies were injured, according to DCSO. Those involved will be placed on administrative leave which is standard protocol.

The on and off-ramps to both directions of the interstate were closed for hours during the investigation.

6:15 DCSO responded to Happy Canyon/I25 ref man with gun, situation is now an Officer Involved Shooting. One suspect deceased at scene. No deputies injured. No danger to community. Critical Incident Response Team on scene. Active Investigation pic.twitter.com/SXdzVp05Fl — DC Sheriff (@dcsheriff) April 4, 2021

MORE WAYS TO GET 9NEWS

Subscribe to our daily 9NEWSLETTER for top stories from 9NEWS curated daily just for you. Get content and information right now for can’t-miss stories, Next and Broncos content, weather and more delivered right to your inbox.

DOWNLOAD THE 9NEWS APP

iTunes: http://on9news.tv/itunes

Google Play: http://on9news.tv/1lWnC5n

HOW TO ADD THE 9NEWS APP TO YOUR STREAMING DEVICE

ROKU: add the channel from the ROKU store or by searching for KUSA.

For both Apple TV and Fire TV, search for "9news" to find the free app to add to your account. Another option for Fire TV is to have the app delivered directly to your Fire TV through Amazon.