HONOLULU, Hawaii (HawaiiNewsNow) - A large police investigation continues into a crime spree and police pursuit that ended with three officers shooting at a vehicle Monday and left a 16-year-old dead.

Honolulu police said five other people who were in the car were taken into custody following the shooting in McCully about 5 p.m. One other person sustained serious injuries in the incident, while a third had non-life-threatening injuries consistent with a car crash.

In a news conference on Monday night, Honolulu Police Chief Susan Ballard said the suspects ranged in age from 14 to 22, and some have prior convictions.

There were no weapons recovered at the scene, but Ballard said a search of the area is still underway.

Meanwhile, three officers discharged their weapons. They have between three and 10 years of service and will be given administrative leave, which is standard procedure.

“The officers, as I’m sure anyone would be, are still shaken up and we’re still trying to get statements,” Ballard said, at a news conference Monday night at HPD headquarters.

The shooting happened following a police pursuit that started in East Honolulu.

About 4:55 p.m., the suspects’ car ― a Honda with Texas plates stolen from Kailua on Saturday ― was spotted heading toward town near Kalani High School.

Ballard said the same vehicle was linked to a burglary and car theft in Waikiki and an armed robbery.

Police started a pursuit and followed the car westbound on the H-1 Freeway and then onto Kapiolani Boulevard. The suspect’s vehicle reportedly ran multiple red lights while traveling on Kapiolani.

The driver apparently encountered heavy traffic after turning up Kalakaua Avenue. The shooting happened a short time later at the intersection of Kalakaua Avenue and Philip Street.

“The vehicle drove into oncoming traffic before being blocked in by officers near the intersection,” Ballard said. “We believe that the vehicle rammed into marked police cars, crashed through a chain link fence,” and ended up in a drainage ditch.

“During this time, officers fired multiple shots at the vehicle,” Ballard said. “So the occupants ran from the canal and were chased by the officers on foot.”

Two suspects were taken into custody away from the scene.

Residents said they heard multiple gunshots pop off and were shocked to learn what had happened.

“I heard about five gunshots ... and then literally 30 seconds later, I heard sirens galore. I mean just siren after siren,” resident Richard Webb said.

Sandy Fulton, who is on a neighborhood watch group for the area, said she heard the bullets from her fourth-story window.

“I didn’t look out the window because I didn’t want to get shot,” she said.

This story will be updated.

Copyright 2021 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.