OGDEN, Utah — Several police vehicles and officers responded to an area outside a Smith’s grocery store in Ogden after a woman was shot and killed in the parking lot.

The incident occurred off of 12th Street and Harrison Boulevard around 1:15 p.m. Saturday.

Upon arrival, officers from the Ogden Police Department learned the 41-year-old victim had been confronted and shot at by her former boyfriend.

KSL TV spoke to a man at the scene who said he was the victim’s current boyfriend. He showed a message from who he said was the suspect that read, “You took her from me, now I’m taking her from you.”

Deputy Fire Chief Shelby Willis with the Ogden City Fire Department said the woman sustained one gunshot wound to the head.

Scene remains very active both agencies still here. But grocery store still open, about half the parking lot is closed off. Second scene is about 3.5 miles away on 37th St- no official confirmation on its connection yet. @KSL5TV pic.twitter.com/YpEYNfFJ0t — Garna Mejia (@GarnaMejiaKSL) April 3, 2021

The suspect took off from the scene in a black Toyota SUV. He was followed by police, making it approximately 3.5-miles from where the shooting took place.

“He was quickly identified and located in the front yard of a home in the 900 block of Maple Street in Ogden,” read a press release from Ogden City Police.

“I think he was trying to get away,” said Jackie Martin, a neighbor and witness. “The car comes whipping around the corner and slid to a stop and a bunch of cops come up, and then a guy just took up off the road and a bunch of cops surrounded him and then he just sat down in a driveway.”

The Ogden Metro SWAT team was then called in.

Neighboring homes were evacuated while SWAT members tried to negotiate with the suspect who was armed with a semi-automatic handgun.

“Looks like they’ve been negotiating with him, throwing him some waters,” said Don Johnson who witnessed the exchange. “He’s smoking cigarettes and is pretty much holding a gun to his head the whole time.”

The public was told to avoid the area of 36th Street and 40th Street and 800 East to 1100 East while the “active police incident” went on.

After several hours of negotiating, the suspect shot himself.

“It was pretty scary,” said Esperanza Martin. “I saw him shoot himself. You could see him having the gun to his head; all of a sudden, you see him jerk his head. That’s when you hear the shot.”

Detectives towed away this black Toyota SUV. Neighbors tell me the man/suspect drove it into the neighborhood then jumped out & ran up the street as police followed him. Latest update tonight at 9 on @KSL5TV. pic.twitter.com/kpHYy69bMm — Garna Mejia (@GarnaMejiaKSL) April 4, 2021

Medical personnel quickly rendered aid to the suspect before he was transported in an ambulance to a local hospital. Officials said he is currently in critical condition.

A motive for the victim’s killing has not been determined. Detectives with the Ogden Police Department and Weber-Morgan Homicide Task Force are investigating.

Police confirmed this was a domestic violence situation and that there is no ongoing threat to public safety.

The identities of both the victim and the suspect were not immediately available.