TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (WTXL) — Tallahassee Police are now working to get answers to a deadly situation that left a hostage suspect dead and an officer injured.

Tallahassee Police say it began at an apartment complex on Ocala Drive, near Publix. Officers say two men, a woman, and a child were parked in the entrance of the complex, leading officers to investigate. While the driver was outside of the car talking to officers, the other man in the car pulled off, hitting a backup officer.

Police eventually found the car at the Valencia Square Apartments just down the road. Police say someone ran out of an apartment, saying a man inside had hostages.

Maurice Kirksey lives just two doors down. He says he watched it all unfold from his bedroom window.

"The police were patiently waiting. It was a big boom and come to find out the person jumped from the second story," said Kirksey.

Once on the ground, the suspect then waved a gun at officers, according to the police. An officer shot at the suspect, ultimately killing him.

"I don't want to feel like I'm on the cops' side, but they did what they had to do. They patiently waited. I was looking out through the window the whole time. They were patiently waiting," said Kirksey.

This marks the fourth time a Tallahassee Police Officer has fatally fired their gun in the field since March 2020. Police Chief Lawrence called an early morning press conference to address the shootings.

"We have to get through that together. We talked about dealing with the problems in the community is a collaborative effort and we will continue to do that," said Chief Revell.

NAACP President Mutaqee Akbar says the chief called him at 6:30 in the morning to brief him on the shooting.

"He did explain what happened. He explained the circumstances. I commend him for reaching out and getting ahead of the situation," said Akbar.

In an effort to be more transparent, Chief Revell says all body camera footage will be released once the identities of people in the video are redacted. An early body camera footage release is something Akbar fought for following those three officer-involved shootings in 2020.

"I am waiting to see the body cameras to see what actually did happen. I like the idea that we don't have to wait on them like we had to before," said Akbar.

Akbar says while the focus is on how the investigation ended, he's curious to see how it started.

"I'm curious as to what led up to it, if that person was being profiled, what made the car suspicious at 11 in an apartment complex. Some people just don't like being around police officers," said Akbar.

As for that woman and child, police say they were found unharmed inside the apartment. The other man in the car was detained, but the chief says he has been cooperative. The injured officer is now recovering at home. The officer who shot at the suspect is on paid administrative leave per department policy.

The investigation is open and active.

The Tallahassee Police Department is investigating after an officer-involved shooting late Thursday night.

According to TPD, an officer shot and killed an armed man after he threatened the officer with a weapon.

Just after 11 p.m., an officer on routine patrol made contact with a suspicious vehicle in the parking lot in the 800 block of Ocala Road, TPD said.

According to the report, two men, a woman, and a child were in the car at the time. When the driver stepped out to speak with the officer the other man moved to the driver's seat and took off with the female passenger and child.

The backup officer who responded to assist was struck by the vehicle causing injuries that required treatment at a local hospital.

The vehicle was found a short time later abandoned in the 100 block of Valencia Drive.

Officers were canvassing the area when someone ran out of their residence saying someone was inside their home holding hostages.

Officers approached the open door of the residence and told the suspect that the apartment was surrounded. Officers were securing the perimeter when the suspect jumped from a second-story window.

According to the report, the suspect raised his weapon at an officer; fearing for their life, the officer then fired their weapon, disarming the suspect.

Officers gave life-saving aid to the suspect on scene, who was then transported to a local hospital where he was pronounced deceased. The suspect’s name is being withheld pending notification of family.

The female passenger and child were both located in the home unharmed and safe. The home’s residents and nearby neighbors were also unharmed.

This is an open and active investigation.