Massive backups snarled traffic across parts of the western Coachella Valley Friday as authorities investigated a fatal shooting by a Riverside County sheriff's deputy along Interstate 10 near Whitewater Canyon Road.

The seventh fatal shooting by a deputy in the county in 2021, the incident prompted a full shutdown of the westbound lanes of I-10, as well as one of the eastbound lanes of the freeway, for much of the day.

Sgt. Lionel Murphy, a spokesman for the sheriff's department, told reporters during an afternoon briefing that the shooting occurred after a man, armed with a tire iron, ran at a sheriff's deputy who was trying to keep him from walking onto the interstate.

Shortly after 8:45 a.m. Friday, a motorist called 911 and said a man was throwing rocks at passing vehicles on Whitewater Canyon Road.

More:Palm Springs streets in gridlock hours after deputy-involved shooting on I-10

When a deputy arrived at the scene, the man was smashing the window of a parked car with a tire iron, Murphy said.

The deputy ordered the man to stop and drop the tire iron, but the man ignored the deputy and started walking toward the interstate. The deputy then drove his patrol vehicle onto westbound I-10 to stop traffic as the man had stepped onto the freeway.

The deputy repeatedly asked the man to drop the tire iron and leave the roadway, Murphy said, adding that the man then "charged at the deputy with the tire iron in his hand."

The deputy opened fire.

Emergency medical responders treated the man, but he died of his injuries at the scene.

No deputies were injured.

A Desert Sun reporter observed what appeared to be a body in the westbound lanes of I-10, a short distance from the center divider.

Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco was at the scene Friday afternoon, but did not make a statement himself.

The California Highway Patrol assisted the sheriff's department at the scene.

Soon after the shutdown occurred, the California Department of Transportation tweeted out a warning to motorists, advising them to be patient as it was unknown how long the lane closures along westbound I-10 would last.

Traffic was, however, eventually diverted off I-10 to Whitewater Canyon Road and then back onto I-10, according to the CHP.

By noon, traffic had slowed to a crawl in both directions. Westbound traffic was backed up as far east as Palm Drive, while eastbound traffic stretched west as far back as the Haugen-Lehman Way exit. All but one lane on the eastbound side was open to traffic.

Caltrans advised motorists to use public restrooms and purchase food and drink before getting in line for the interstate as wait times to enter began to lengthen, according to a department tweet. Sig-alert estimated the closures would result in delays of as much as two hours for motorists.

Just after noon, other police departments, such as Palm Springs, sent out social media alerts advising motorists of overflow congestion on their city streets caused by the interstate lane closures.

Shortly after 1 p.m. in Palm Springs, police issued a local alert warning motorists to: "Avoid the area SOUTH of Interstate 10 in the city of Palm Springs due to major traffic delays. The (Riverside County Sheriff's Department) is working an incident on Interstate 10 near Whitewater, which has caused the streets leading into Palm Springs toward outbound Highway 111 to be heavily backed-up. Please avoid the area or plan accordingly for the delay."

At about 3 p.m., Palm Springs police tweeted that the backup had spread and motorists were advised to avoid westbound Vista Chino and find an alternate route to northbound Highway 111.

Just as rush hour began, one westbound lane of I-10 near Whitewater Canyon was reopened, while on the eastbound side of I-10, all lanes — except for the No. 1 lane — were moving.

Ultimately, the westbound lanes were reopened around 4:30 p.m., but traffic remained heavily congested into the early evening.

MaLisa Card was stopped in her vehicle attempting to access Whitewater Preserve. She said she was trying to meet her husband at the preserve, who had been hiking sections of the Pacific Crest Trail. They are both visiting from Michigan and were planning on staying in Banning Friday night.

"I’m very frustrated because now there’s no signal and I can’t talk to him to let him know I can’t get in to meet him," Card said.

Deputy-involved shootings in 2021

Friday's incident is the seventh shooting involving a Riverside County sheriff's deputy so far this year, according to an unofficial count maintained by The Desert Sun. All of the six previous shootings have also been fatal.

On Jan. 26, deputies fatally shot a man in Homeland, an unincorporated community west of Hemet, after he opened fire on them when they responded to reports that he had threatened his estranged wife, according to a department news release.

On Jan. 29, deputies fatally shot a man in La Quinta after a pursuit from Thousand Palms.

On Feb. 15 in the desert, the owner of the popular roastery, Joshua Tree Coffee Company, was killed by deputies in Indian Wells after the man had an altercation with another motorist.

On March 21, a man died of a gunshot wound after a shootout with deputies in Perris. A deputy was treated for injuries that weren't life-threatening as a result of that incident.

On April 3, a suspect wanted in connection with an armed assault and an attempted kidnapping was fatally shot by authorities during an arrest attempt in the parking lot of a Corona hotel.

The Riverside County Gang Impact Team, with the assistance of a federal fugitive apprehension team, was conducting surveillance at around 5:30 p.m. at the Welcome Inn, 1248 W. Sixth St., when they located the suspect and moved in for the arrest, according to the Corona Police Department.

At some point during the arrest attempt, members of the gang impact team fired at the suspect, officials said, though no information was given about what provoked the shooting. Investigators administered life-saving measures, but the suspect died in the parking lot.

Authorities said a firearm was recovered at the scene.

On April 4, deputies fatally shot a man in Moreno Valley on April 4 after a standoff during which he was barricaded in a home.

City News Service contributed to this report.