Two police officers talk after an 11-hour SWAT standoff in downtown San Diego with a fugitive ended with police fatally shooting the suspect, Christopher Marquez. The 36-year-old had been holed up in a trash bin on the campus of San Diego High School following a chase Monday night.

A fugitive suspected of shooting at police and private investigators three times within the last month was shot and killed by SWAT officers Tuesday morning, following an overnight standoff in downtown San Diego.

Christopher Templo Marquez, 36, had been holed up in a large trash bin on the campus of San Diego High School for about 11 hours, San Diego police said. Officers opened fire believing he was about to shoot a woman with him in the dumpster.

Police homicide Lt. Matt Dobbs said Marquez had grown increasingly agitated as the standoff stretched on, and he started to take it out on the woman. Police heard Marquez make comments, then saw him push the woman into a position where they believed he was about to shoot her.

Advertisement

SWAT officers had a partial view inside the trash bin and saw Marquez “maneuvering a rifle towards the woman,” Dobbs said in a news release. Two officers fired their guns, killing Marquez.

Police pulled the woman from the container. She was not injured.

The woman, whose name has not been released, was riding in a vehicle with Marquez when National City police spotted him and tried to pull him over about 8:15 p.m. Monday. That started a chase that stretched into Point Loma before reaching downtown San Diego, Dobb said. During the pursuit, someone in the car shot at police three separate times.

Around 8:45 p.m., the driver plowed through a gate at Balboa Stadium and pulled onto the high school football field. Marquez and the woman ran onto the campus and hid in a dumpster. At the start of the incident, police did not consider the woman a hostage, police Lt. Matt Botkin said.

During the standoff, the woman tried to escape from the dumpster several times, but Marquez pulled her back in, Dobbs said.

At one point, she gave up a handgun in exchange for water, he said.

Because the standoff stretched into Tuesday morning, San Diego Unified School District switched three schools from in-person to online instruction for the day. Classes were to be held online for San Diego High, Garfield High and East Village Middle College High students, said school district spokeswoman Maureen Magee.

Police shut down Park and Russ boulevards during the standoff.

Marquez is accused of shooting and wounding a private investigator last month in Chula Vista and shooting at National City police officers last week. Police had been looking for Marquez for weeks and warned the public he was armed and dangerous.

Police have been looking for Christopher Templo Marquez, 36, in connection with shootings in Chula Vista and National City. (Courtesy of National City Police Department)

The break came Monday night when National City police tried to stop a vehicle Marquez was in. But it sped off, starting a chase up Interstate 805 from about 43rd Street to Point Loma, Dobbs said. At one point, near Nimitz and West Point Loma Boulevard, someone in the car started shooting at police.

The chase continued to downtown San Diego. Around 10th Avenue and A Street, someone in the car again opened fire.

When the chase got to the high school campus on Park Boulevard, more shots followed. A National City officer returned fire with a rifle.

The vehicle busted through the gate and ended up on the football field. Marquez and the woman hopped out and ran. Police saw them carrying a handgun and a rifle.

The pair climbed into the trash container. Police set up a perimeter. Police negotiators were called in.

“The longer they can speak with them the more successful we can be... They are taking their time to listen and talk, and to let him know, that when we say if you come out peacefully, we will be here to receive you. And that’s our goal,” Botkin told Fox 5 during the standoff. “We are taking things very slow, very methodical.”

Radio traffic indicated that during the standoff, police officers were using a remote controlled robot to peer into the dumpster, while San Diego police and sheriff’s crews aboard several helicopters were also monitoring the trash bin for movement.

The helicopter crews, the personnel guiding the robot and emergency crisis negotiators reported the people hiding inside the dumpster were smoking, requesting water and becoming agitated by the robot’s presence.

Area resident Harib Alsaid said he saw helicopters overhead and a heavy police presence throughout the night, and at one point saw officers carrying what appeared to be sniper rifles headed toward the high school.

“It was crazy, honestly,” Alsaid said. “I never saw this many cops ever in my life.”

Authorities had been searching for Marquez for nearly a month after he was suspected in a March 15 shooting at a home on East J Street near Arroyo Place in Chula Vista. On that day, two private investigators went searching for Marquez to detain him on a felony warrant when he allegedly shot one of them twice, setting off a police manhunt that stretched into the next morning.

VIDEO | 01:11 Shooting suspect killed by police after SWAT standoff at San Diego High School Christopher Marquez is accused of shooting and wounding a private investigator last month in Chula Vista and shooting at National City police officers last week. Police had been looking for Marquez for weeks and warned the public he was armed and dangerous.

A few weeks later, in the early morning on April 5, National City police officers spotted a stolen car in the drive-thru of a Jack in the Box on Roosevelt Avenue near 7th Street. Officers locked down the restaurant and its parking lot, but while attempting to make contact with the people inside the stolen vehicle, a passenger got out and ran.

Police said that man was Marquez, although they didn’t know it at the time. Police said he shot at pursuing officers as he ran onto the on-ramp from East 7th Street to northbound Interstate 5. No one was hit. Both officers returned fire, but police don’t believe Marquez was struck.

National City police said last week that Marquez had felony warrants for vehicle theft, hit and run, evading arrest and obstructing police. Online Sheriff’s Department records indicated authorities also issued a $2 million warrant last week on suspicion of attempted murder.

Staff writer David Hernandez contributed to this report.

Lea esta historia en español.