Officials have confirmed the deceased as a 25-year-old Pooler man.

Update 3:51 p.m.: The deceased driver of the Honda Accord has been identified as Freddie Holmes Jr. 25, of Pooler. The Jasper County Coroner's Office confirmed that the crash was the result of a police chase. According to scanner traffic, the chase originated in Port Wentworth.WJCL has repeatedly reached out to Port Wentworth Police for comment but we have not heard back.Initial report: The left lane on I-95 is back open after a deadly crash shut down both northbound lanes overnight near Hardeeville. However, traffic still remained backed up into Georgia as of 10 a.m.The crash happened around the 2.5-mile marker in Jasper County.Both lanes were closed until around 6 a.m.The South Carolina Highway Patrol says a 2006 Honda Accord was heading northbound on I-95 when it struck an 18-wheeler, who was also traveling northbound, around 10:10 p.m. Monday.Highway Patrol says the 18-wheeler overturned during the crash and the driver of the Honda Accord was killed. No word on if the driver of the tractor-trailer was injured.The crash is still under investigation and the identity of the driver killed has not been released.

Update 3:51 p.m.:

The deceased driver of the Honda Accord has been identified as Freddie Holmes Jr. 25, of Pooler.

Advertisement

The Jasper County Coroner's Office confirmed that the crash was the result of a police chase. According to scanner traffic, the chase originated in Port Wentworth.

WJCL has repeatedly reached out to Port Wentworth Police for comment but we have not heard back.





Initial report: The left lane on I-95 is back open after a deadly crash shut down both northbound lanes overnight near Hardeeville. However, traffic still remained backed up into Georgia as of 10 a.m.

The crash happened around the 2.5-mile marker in Jasper County.

Both lanes were closed until around 6 a.m.

WJCL

The South Carolina Highway Patrol says a 2006 Honda Accord was heading northbound on I-95 when it struck an 18-wheeler, who was also traveling northbound, around 10:10 p.m. Monday.

WJCL

Highway Patrol says the 18-wheeler overturned during the crash and the driver of the Honda Accord was killed. No word on if the driver of the tractor-trailer was injured.

The crash is still under investigation and the identity of the driver killed has not been released.