Miles Jackson, 27, has been confirmed by police as the suspect killed by officers during what police have called an "exchange of gunfire" Monday afternoon inside the emergency department at Mount Carmel St. Ann's hospital in Westerville.

In the aftermath of the shooting, protests continued and got heated in Columbus on Tuesday night. Confrontations between police and protesters, including police use of pepper spray, broke out when a few demonstrators broke into police headquarters.

More on protest:Pepper spray deployed in clash between Columbus police and protesters

Exactly what unfolded inside the St. Ann's emergency department around 2:15 p.m. Monday afternoon remained unclear 24 hours later as the joint statement confirming Jackson's identity by Westerville police, Columbus police and Mount Carmel St. Ann's security and safety personnel provided no further update on the circumstances of the shooting Tuesday.

The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation is handling the investigation into the officers-involved shooting.

More:Shooting at St. Ann's: Questions emerge over how suspect had gun, whether he fired

The names of the officers who were involved have not yet been released by Westerville police or Columbus police. Westerville police have also not provided information as to whether Jackson, of the Northwest Side, was searched for potential weapons prior to being taken to the hospital.

The Dispatch reached out to Westerville police on Tuesday to ask questions regarding the department's policy on searching people involved in medical emergencies and whether that policy was followed on Monday, but those questions were not answered.

Westerville police Chief Charles Chandler said Monday that officers had been called in the morning to a report of a man "passed out in a vehicle." Officers called for paramedics, who transported the man to St. Ann's for evaluation and treatment. Officers accompanied the ambulance to the hospital.

That man, now known to be Jackson, was found to have warrants out for his arrest related to pending charges of domestic violence, resisting arrest, falsification and assault in Franklin County Municipal Court, as well as a pending felony case on charges of possession of drugs and having weapons while under disability, meaning a person with a felony conviction who had possessed a firearm illegally.

Police shootings:Franklin County has one of highest rates of fatal police shootings in Ohio and the U.S.

Because the warrants were from Columbus police, they were called to meet Westerville police at the hospital to take custody of Jackson.

Chandler said that at 2:22 p.m. Monday, a radio call for an officer in trouble was aired from St. Ann's. Moments later, shots were fired.

Chandler said two Columbus officers, four St. Ann's safety and security personnel and at least one Westerville officer were in the room when the shots were fired.

The Dispatch has requested copies of body camera footage from Columbus and Westerville police officers who were present.

Audio from civilian video indicates exchange of gunfire

Chandler described the interaction as an "exchange of gunfire," something that appeared to be confirmed by cellphone video provided to The Dispatch by a person who was present in the emergency department but asked not to be identified.

The video appears to have been shot from close to the floor and fixed on a hall between treatment areas in the emergency department. Police can be heard telling the suspect to put down a gun. Two distinct shots are then heard, followed immediately by a barrage of gunfire.

Chandler said that an "additional weapon" outside of the guns possessed by officers was recovered at the scene. The Columbus officers and at least one St. Ann's officer fired their weapons, Chandler said.

No other injuries were reported in the shooting.

Jackson was taken immediately into a trauma bay inside the emergency room following the shooting but did not survive his injuries.

According to a video provided to The Dispatch by a woman who was inside the emergency room at the time, officers yelled multiple times for Jackson to put his hands up and show officers his hands.

The woman who took the cellphone video said she believed first responders saved lives in the emergency department and wanted the public to know what happened inside the hospital.

A Mount Carmel spokesperson told The Dispatch in an email that there is a "full-time security presence" in the emergency department at all times. The hospital system did not disclose how many officers are specifically assigned to St. Ann's but said there are 100 security officers across all of Mount Carmel's campuses.

The hospital's communications team said all security officers are certified through the state as peace officers to carry firearms and undergo annual training.

The spokesperson would not identify the officers involved on Monday, citing "our colleagues' privacy and because this is an ongoing investigation."

Chandler called the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation in to lead the investigation into the shooting.

On Monday night, Attorney General Dave Yost, whose office oversees BCI, issued a statement urging the public to allow facts to come out before rushing to judgment.

"In the early hours of this investigation, it is not clear what occurred. I appeal to everyone to let us gather the facts and complete the record," Yost said in a prepared statement. "That cannot happen overnight. An investigation like this takes an average of 400 hours.

"We will find the truth, and we will fully reveal it."

Pepper spray used on protesters during break-in at police headquarters

Demonstrations against fatal police shootings continued for the second night in a row Tuesday night in Columbus.

Columbus police deployed pepper spray on protesters around 9:15 p.m. after some who had been among a crowd of more than 100 could be seen breaking into the headquarters' lobby. The group had marched through Downtown streets and congregated outside the division's Marconi Boulevard headquarters before the clash.

It appeared at least one person was taken into custody at the scene.

The group had initially gathered around 8 p.m. outside police headquarters where a series of demonstrators spoke to the crowd through a megaphone. They mentioned not only Jackson, but Daunte Wright, a 20-year-old Black man who was fatally shot by a Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, police officer during a traffic stop.

Speakers also referenced the killings of Casey Goodson Jr. — a 23-year-old Black man fatally shot Dec. 4 as he attempted to enter his residence in the Northland area by Franklin County Sheriff's SWAT deputy Jason Meade — and Andre Hill, a 47-year-old unarmed Black man shot and killed Dec. 23 by former Columbus police officer Adam Coy, who has been indicted for murder.

"We see this pipeline of suffering that's directed toward Black people," said one speaker who would only identify as "Storm." "Ultimately it's Black bodies that pay the price."

The crowd then marched through the street east on Long Street and south on High Street.

The crowd briefly stopped on High Street on the west side of the Ohio Statehouse to chant slogans such as "Black lives matter" and "whose streets? Our streets" before moving on and, heading west on State Street and North on Front Street, ending where they started.

The demonstration appeared to be coming to an end before a clash with police ensued.

Protests and calls for justice start to break out

A day before, protesters gathered near the hospital at the corner of South Cleveland Avenue and West Schrock Road on Monday night within hours of Jackson's death.

A lone Black Lives Matter flag was held aloft on the southeastern corner of Cleveland Avenue and Schrock Road as a group of 50 or so chanted slogans and the names of Black men fatally shot by police while traffic whizzed by the busy intersection. After sunset, the group marched on the sidewalk toward the medical center, where they shouted at police staged in the parking lot and continued to chant.

A megaphone in hand, Hana Abdur-Rahim, a community organizer and activist from the South Side, led the protesters most of the way.

Just as she did nearly every night last fall, and last summer, and late last spring, and then again in December and in the winter months that followed, Hana Abdur-Rahim marched through on city streets again Monday night. And Tuesday night. And probably in the coming days.

Because police killed another Black man and nothing has changed, she said.

“I’m feeling a sense of redundancy in the sense that this keeps happening and the police in the city seem to have the same script every time,” said Abdur-Rahim, a community organizer and activist from the South Side, who acknowledged the circumstances of Jackson's death differed from that of Goodson and Hill. “And the police are never held accountable.”

Columbus Dispatch reporter Holly Zachariah contributed to this story.

bbruner@dispatch.com

@bethany_bruner

elagatta@dispatch.com

@EricLagatta