UPDATE: The suspect involved in a vehicle chase that ended in Meridian has shot and killed himself, according to police.

Meridian police say the roads will be closed "for an extended period of time" and ask the community continues to avoid the Chinden Boulevard between Ten Mile and Black Cat roads.

Officers say negotiations were unsuccessful and distraction devices and gas were used, but he shot himself with one of his firearms in what Meridian police are calling a suicide.

There were no other injuries from the incident, police say.

After failed negotiations Officers deployed distraction devises and gas in an effort to get the suspect to exit the vehicle. Unfortunately he shot himself fatally with one of his firearms. Thankfully no Officers were injured. 1/2 — Meridian Police Dept (@PoliceMeridian) April 14, 2021

Original:

Chinden Boulevard is closed to traffic between Ten Mile and Black Cat roads after a vehicle chase that started in Caldwell.

Meridian Police said in a Tweet that they are in a standoff with an armed suspect. The chase started in Caldwell and ended in that area of Chinden. People are being asked to avoid the area of Chinden and Black Cat.

Police in a standoff with armed suspect. Please stay out of the area of Chinden/Black Cat. — Meridian Police Dept (@PoliceMeridian) April 14, 2021

Meridian Police Officers did a successful PIT maneuver to stop the vehicle chase. At this time, police say the suspect is armed and refusing to leave his vehicle. Ada County Metro SWAT is on scene and negotiations are happening.

The West Ada School District and churches in the area have been informed of the situation, according to a Tweet from Meridian Police. Code RED was sent to local neighborhoods as well.

Idaho News 6

Idaho News 6 will continue to update with more information as it becomes available.

If you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts and mental health, contact Idaho Suicide Prevention Hotline at 208-398-4357 or the Crisis Hotline at 208-788-3596.