SANTA CRUZ — A San Jose woman was killed early Wednesday morning during a southbound Highway 1 crash near the Morrissey Boulevard exit.

The crash occurred during a pursuit with the California Highway Patrol which began at 1:47 a.m. north of Dimeo Lane and proceeded through the city of Santa Cruz, south. Officers were attempting to stop the driver of the 2004 Toyota Camry after he was seen driving at an initial high rate of speed, according to the CHP.

Vehicle driver Richard Quihuis Jr., 19, of San Jose, ultimately attempted to exit the highway at Morrissey Boulevard, where the car struck a concrete curb, proceeded forward, then hit a metal guardrail before catching fire, according to the CHP. Related Articles Crashes and Disasters | 16 workers killed in crane collapse in western India

16 workers killed in crane collapse in western India Crashes and Disasters | 13-year-old Bay Area girl crashes parents’ Tesla after allegedly taking it without permission

13-year-old Bay Area girl crashes parents’ Tesla after allegedly taking it without permission Crashes and Disasters | Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980

Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980 Crashes and Disasters | Police: Man who fled Southern California collision dies when car crashes again

Police: Man who fled Southern California collision dies when car crashes again Crashes and Disasters | York fire: Crews are battling ‘fire whirls’ in massive Mojave Desert blaze close to Las Vegas

Quihuis reportedly fled the scene on foot but was apprehended and arrested by the California Highway Patrol.

Remaining inside the car were two women, 17 and 19, and another man, 20, all San Jose residents. The 17-year-old front-seat passenger was able to exit the vehicle safely with minor injuries, but arriving officers needed to extricate the male and female backseat occupants. The man received minor injuries but the 19-year-old woman, who has not yet been identified pending notification of family, was pronounced dead by medical personnel on scene.

Quihuis received treatment for minor injuries at Dominican Hospital and was later arrested on suspicion of felony DUI, gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, felony hit and run and felony evading police. He was being held at Santa Cruz County Jail in lieu of $150,000 bail Wednesday afternoon.