A shooter who barricaded himself in a building on Main Street in Branford, firing indiscriminately and toward police, is dead and another person was wounded after an hourslong standoff with officers that shut down a neighborhood Tuesday afternoon.

Police found the suspect, who was not identified, dead in the building, bringing to a close a tense series of events for businesses and homeowners in the area.

The person wounded was described as a civilian and was transported to Yale New Haven Hospital with injuries that were not believed to be life threatening, according to Branford fire and EMS officials.

Police remained at the scene Wednesday morning. By 9:15 a.m., some 200 people had thanked officers on Facebook for keeping them safe, one calling their work “extraordinary.”

“So thankful no innocent lives were lost today,” another wrote.

Branford police responded around noon to reports of gunshots in the area of Main Street and Cherry Hill Road and encountered “heavy gunfire” when they arrived, prompting people in nearby businesses to shelter in place and the widespread evacuation of neighboring residents as police warned the large scene remained unsafe well into the early evening. Police from other agencies, including the state police, soon arrived to help.

One witness described what sounded like hundreds of gunshots coming from the second floor of a house that has a hair salon on the first floor and another described hearing a “significant amount” of gunfire from her business across the street.

The one victim of the gunfire was located nearby and later transported to the hospital as state police and SWAT officers joined the response but remained “pinned down” by the shooter, according to police and videos shared online from the scene.

“Officers continued to face heavy gunfire and were pinned down until armored Bearcat vehicles arrived. South Central SWAT continues to operate. The scene is still active and not safe,” police said at 4:30 p.m.

Branford police Lt. PJ O’Malley said at the scene: “It was absolutely insane, we had no idea where the shots were coming from. We heard that he was first shooting from his car, then from above his apartment.”

“He was shooting from one window to the next window to the next window,” he continued.

O’Malley said the suspect “shot a couple cars” as police monitored the scene.

Branford police said the New Haven State’s Attorney’s office and the Connecticut State Police were assisting with the investigation.

State Sen. Christine Cohen and state Rep. Robin Comey both confirmed shortly after the incident began that their offices had received reports of an active shooter and that nearby residents were being evacuated from the area. The state police bomb squad was involved in the situation, Cohen added.

“Still an active situation with multiple police units on the scene including now [state police] bomb squad and South Central SWAT,” she tweeted just before 6 p.m.

Steve Milano, manager of Richlin Home and Auto across the street from 241 Main St., said he heard the first burst of gunfire about 11:50 a.m. As of 2:20 p.m., he estimated 200-300 rounds had been fired, he said.

The person was “firing indiscriminately” some 85 feet away he said, and when police showed up, the shooter fired at them.

“It’s crazy, I’ve never seen anything like this,” Milano said.

There were about a half-dozen customers in the store at the time and everyone was told to stay away from the front windows.

“We’re just in the back talking right now,” he said.

A woman who also works across the street from 241 Main St. said there were three staff members doing telemedicine in the doctor’s office when the shots rang out.

At first, she thought the banging sounds were from a neighboring business that was restocking its shelves — then she and fellow employees realized it was gunfire.

The woman, who declined to give her name, said she did not estimate how many gunshots the staff heard but that they “definitely heard a significant amount.”

“I’m more concerned for the people out there,” she said. “I am praying for them.”

Local blogger On Scene Media New Haven County captured footage of officers crouched down behind police cars on a blocked portion of a road, and about a dozen shots being fired.

Jacob Oslin, 16, told TV reporters gathered near the scene that he was riding his bike past a garden shop when people inside screamed at him to stop and run into the store. He did what they said, and as soon as he got inside he heard a round of gunfire.

He believed the person shooting at police was in a second-story spot a few buildings away, he said.

“I’m still in shock, I don’t think the gravity of the situation has set in yet,” he said.

Connecticut State Police teams, including the South Central Regional SWAT team, and personnel from several other area police agencies responded to the scene and asked residents and bystanders to avoid the area and to not livestream footage near the scene.

“Please avoid this area, the scene is not safe,” Branford police said in a statement.

Jessika Harkay can be reached at jharkay@courant.com. Zach Murdock can be reached at zmurdock@courant.com. Christine Dempsey can be reached at cdempsey@courant.com.