The Westminster SWAT team was attempting to negotiate the surrender of Raymond Quintana who was accused of pointing a gun at Thornton officers last week.

Example video title will go here for this video

WESTMINSTER, Colo. — A man is dead from what is believed to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound following an hours-long standoff at a Westminster apartment complex.

The suspect is believed to be Raymond Quintana, 36, who was wanted on numerous charges related to a crime last week during which he was accused of pointing a gun at Thornton Police officers. The coroner's office will release the official identification.

A Westminster SWAT team responded around 6 p.m. Wednesday to reports that the suspect, Quintana, was at the Edgewood Apartments in the 6900 block of Stuart Street.

They tried to negotiate with the suspect but communications broke down around 11 p.m. and officers forced their way into the apartment, a tweet from Westminster police says. Once inside, they found a man suffering from a single gunshot wound, which is believed to be self-inflicted, according to police. During the incident, no officers fired their weapons. All shelter orders that were in place during the standoff have been lifted.

According to police, Quintana is facing the following charges related to an incident on April 9:

Attempted first-degree murder of a police officer

Burglary

Felony menacing

Aggravated motor vehicle theft

Eluding police

Thornton officers were first called at 8:27 a.m. Friday to a report of a possible burglary and felony menacing at an apartment complex in the area of 9700 Welby Road. A witness pointed out Quintana to the officers, TPD said.

Quintana pointed a gun at the officers, got into a vehicle that police believe belonged to him, and drove away, police said.

TPD said officers pursued Quintana until he crashed into a fence near Colorado Boulevard and 115th Avenue. Officers attempted to take Quintana into custody. That was when he pointed a gun and officers fired at him, police said.

Quintana ran into the neighborhood, according to police. At one point, he ran through a house, entering through the back door and exiting through the front door, TPD said. He stole a gold Jeep Grand Cherokee, which police later recovered in the 10300 block of Tenby Lane, police said.

While police searched for Quintana on Friday a shelter in place order was put in place and two elementary schools nearby were placed on secure status, meaning no one was allowed inside or outside the building.

The Adams County Critical Incident Team will investigate the officer-involved shooting that occurred Friday which involved two Thornton officers.

SUGGESTED VIDEOS: Local stories from 9NEWS