SAN ANTONIO (KXAN) — A suspected gunman is dead after he was shot by police at the San Antonio International Airport Thursday, which caused the facility to go into a lockdown.

Police said the shooting happened at 9800 Airport Blvd. The airport was locked down as a precautionary measure, and it has since been lifted.

There is a confirmed officer-involved shooting at 9800 Airport Blvd. There is no active threat to the public. As a precaution, the Airport has been put on lock down. No other injuries are reported. — San Antonio PD (@SATXPolice) April 15, 2021

In an update Thursday afternoon, Police Chief William McManus said officers received a call at 2:30 p.m. about a vehicle driving the wrong way on the terminal roadway. When the driver got to Terminal B and ran into police, he jumped out of the car and started shooting.

“There was a TSA lady, she yelled ‘run’ and somebody yelled, ‘there’s a shooter,’ it just kicked in, and I saw a number of people just grab their stuff and take off running,” said Doug Rosini, who was traveling on business.

Police returned fire, McManus said. The gunman was hit and taken to the hospital, where he later died. No other injuries have been reported, according to San Antonio police.

“The officer saved a lot of lives. This guy had a full box of ammunition and a .45-caliber handgun. He was shooting towards the direction of the terminal,” McManus said.

Officers believe the shooter was the same gunman who was firing shots off Highway 281 and Loop 1604 earlier in the day, based off shell casings collected at the scene. The officer who shot the suspect is an 11-year veteran of the department.

NBC-affiliate WOAI in San Antonio reports passengers were initially told to shelter in place while police investigated.

@Noticias60 After the shooting, this is what the lock down at the San Antonio Airport looks like, I think we are all safe. pic.twitter.com/OdHPVzkvq8 — Andrea (@amanriquezf) April 15, 2021

Since then, the airport reports Terminals A and B are cleared and passengers can continue moving through the TSA Security Checkpoint. The airport was fully restored to its standard operations by 5:45 p.m. Thursday.