Authorities in Tuscaloosa are investigating after police shot and killed a man who allegedly fired into a car carrying a woman and two children. Watch the latest update from law enforcement above.According to Tuscaloosa police, the shooting took place in the 100 to 200 block of Skyland Boulevard around 9 p.m. Thursday.The Tuscaloosa Violent Crime Unit said the deadly shooting came after officers responded to report of a domestic dispute involving a man who authorities say shot into a vehicle carrying his two children, ages 3 and 5, and their mother. "He endangered the safety of the public and ultimately forced officers into a dangerous situation," police said in a news release.As officers were speaking with the victim, police said they observed the suspect driving in the area and a chase ensued. Police said after a short car chase, the suspect ditched his vehicle in a parking lot and ran into a wooded area."The suspect was located in a wooded area, and produced and fired a handgun as officers were approaching and giving commands," Captain Jack Kennedy said. "After the suspect fired his weapon, the officers returned fire." The suspect, who has been identified as 29-year-old Roderick Inge, was taken to DCH Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. Police said the officers involved in the incident are OK.“After reviewing the evidence, I’m confident that our officers acted properly and followed procedures,” Tuscaloosa Police Chief Brent Blankley said. “Because of this, none of the officers or other members of the public were injured.”The Tuscaloosa Violent Crime Unit, not including members of the Tuscaloosa Police Department, is leading an investigation into the shooting. Two officers on are paid administrative leave pending the results of the probe. “After meeting this morning with Chief Blankley and the District Attorney to review the details from last night, from what I viewed, our officers acted appropriately in a very dangerous situation,” Tuscaloosa Mayor Walt Maddox said.Grab the WVTM 13 app for the latest updates on this developing story.—STREAM THE SCENEWVTM 13 on FacebookWVTM 13 on Twitter

Authorities in Tuscaloosa are investigating after police shot and killed a man who allegedly fired into a car carrying a woman and two children. Watch the latest update from law enforcement above.

According to Tuscaloosa police, the shooting took place in the 100 to 200 block of Skyland Boulevard around 9 p.m. Thursday.



Advertisement

The Tuscaloosa Violent Crime Unit said the deadly shooting came after officers responded to report of a domestic dispute involving a man who authorities say shot into a vehicle carrying his two children, ages 3 and 5, and their mother.

"He endangered the safety of the public and ultimately forced officers into a dangerous situation," police said in a news release.

As officers were speaking with the victim, police said they observed the suspect driving in the area and a chase ensued.

Police said after a short car chase, the suspect ditched his vehicle in a parking lot and ran into a wooded area.

"The suspect was located in a wooded area, and produced and fired a handgun as officers were approaching and giving commands," Captain Jack Kennedy said. "After the suspect fired his weapon, the officers returned fire."

The suspect, who has been identified as 29-year-old Roderick Inge, was taken to DCH Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.



Police said the officers involved in the incident are OK.

“After reviewing the evidence, I’m confident that our officers acted properly and followed procedures,” Tuscaloosa Police Chief Brent Blankley said. “Because of this, none of the officers or other members of the public were injured.”

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

The Tuscaloosa Violent Crime Unit, not including members of the Tuscaloosa Police Department, is leading an investigation into the shooting. Two officers on are paid administrative leave pending the results of the probe.

“After meeting this morning with Chief Blankley and the District Attorney to review the details from last night, from what I viewed, our officers acted appropriately in a very dangerous situation,” Tuscaloosa Mayor Walt Maddox said.



Grab the WVTM 13 app for the latest updates on this developing story.

—

STREAM THE SCENE

WVTM 13 on Facebook

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

WVTM 13 on Twitter