COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KKTV) - Northbound I-25 was closed Monday evening following a chase that started in Pueblo and ended in Colorado Springs. The chase involved Colorado State Patrol and Fountain Police.

Colorado State Patrol assisted with the chase and was able to provide brief details on the incident that happened at about 5:30 p.m. According to Trooper Josh Lewis with Colorado State Patrol, stop sticks were used on northbound I-25 to disable the suspect vehicle in the area of Woodmen and I-25. The vehicle was believed to be used in an attempted robbery. Soon after the vehicle hit the stop sticks, Colorado Springs police are reporting a trooper used a marked vehicle to make a “tactical intervention” on the suspect vehicle.

On Tuesday, we learned more about what sparked the chase. The Pueblo County Sheriff’s Office is reporting they received a call for an attempted robbery at a Dairy Queen in Pueblo West. A man allegedly passed a note to an employee demanding money and took a gun out from his waistband. However, the suspect quickly left the store without any money. Witnesses stated the suspect was seen getting into a white U-Haul truck before fleeing the scene.

A short time after the attempted robbery at Dairy Queen, deputies spotted the suspect vehicle traveling more than 100 mph northbound on I-25, according to the sheriff’s office. Deputies were able to get the driver to pull over and a man riding in the truck got out, but the driver then sped off northbound on I-25.

The man who got out was identified as Jay Hemphill. Hemphill is charged with complicity to commit aggravated robbery.

The chase came to an end just south of the North Academy Boulevard exit on I-25 when the trooper used a tactical intervention. As law enforcement officers were giving verbal commands to the suspect, at least one shot was fired by a Fountain police officer, and we learned on Wednesday at least one shot was fired by a trooper, with at least one bullet striking the suspect.

Trooper Lewis said life-saving measures were being performed on the driver of the suspect vehicle at the scene. Colorado Springs Police are reporting the suspect was taken to the hospital. On Wednesday, we learned the suspect died at the hospital on Monday. He has been identified as 38-year-old Robert Garcia. Both the trooper and Fountain police officer were placed on administrative leave, as per usual protocol.

No law enforcement officers or civilians were injured.

The Colorado Springs Police Department is investigating the incident as an outside agency because it was an officer-involved shooting.

The driver may have also been the suspect in an attempted bank robbery about one hour before the attempted robbery at the Dairy Queen.

Northbound I-25 Shut down from Woodmen for police activity. — CSPD Communications (@CSPDComCenter) April 19, 2021

Happening Now ‼️



CSPD in the area of Academy and I25 investigating an outside agency officer involved shooting.



Please avoid the area.



PIO Sokolik en route. Briefing ETA 1 hour. Location of media staging TBD (will update via Twitter). — Colorado Springs Police Department (@CSPDPIO) April 20, 2021

Copyright 2021 KKTV. All rights reserved.