Police identify 28-year-old motorcyclist that died after slamming into back of Jeep

Lincoln police have identified a motorcyclist who was killed in a crash following a pursuit over the weekend. According to police, officers with the Lincoln Police Department were dispatched to Highway 77 and Warlick Boulevard just after 10 p.m. Saturday. Nebraska State Patrol was on scene, administering first aid to the driver of the motorcycle.Officials learned that deputies in Gage County had been involved in a pursuit with the motorcycle about an hour earlier. Just before the crash, troopers had spotted the motorcycle between Yankee Hill Road and Warlick Boulevard and had initiated a pursuit.However, before they were able reach the motorcycle, it collided with the back of a 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee. The driver of the motorcycle, 28-year-old Jacoby Wilcox, of Lincoln, was pronounced dead at the scene.The driver and sole occupant of the Jeep Cherokee was a 20-year-old female who did not report any injuries.Both vehicles were a total loss.

Lincoln police have identified a motorcyclist who was killed in a crash following a pursuit over the weekend.

According to police, officers with the Lincoln Police Department were dispatched to Highway 77 and Warlick Boulevard just after 10 p.m. Saturday. Nebraska State Patrol was on scene, administering first aid to the driver of the motorcycle.

Advertisement

Officials learned that deputies in Gage County had been involved in a pursuit with the motorcycle about an hour earlier. Just before the crash, troopers had spotted the motorcycle between Yankee Hill Road and Warlick Boulevard and had initiated a pursuit.

However, before they were able reach the motorcycle, it collided with the back of a 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee.

The driver of the motorcycle, 28-year-old Jacoby Wilcox, of Lincoln, was pronounced dead at the scene.

The driver and sole occupant of the Jeep Cherokee was a 20-year-old female who did not report any injuries.

Both vehicles were a total loss.