UPDATE (1:54 p.m.): The Bakersfield Police Department has confirmed that Jango was the K-9 killed in last night’s fatal officer-involved shooting.

The department said Jango is believed to have been struck by gunfire when the suspect fired at the K-9 and his human partner as they approached him.

Jango was a Belgian Malinois and was born in the Netherlands on Nov. 15, 2015, according to BPD. He was united with his human partner and best friend, Officer Brock Mueller, in March 2017. Memorial plans for the fallen police K-9 have not yet been finalized, the department said

“In his time with us, he faithfully served the community of Bakersfield in the field of suspect apprehension and explosive material detection,” BPD said.

Body camera footage will be released to the public when the investigation allows it, the department said.

UPDATE (11:34 a.m.): The Bakersfield Police Department says a K9 was killed in the line of duty while officers pursued a stolen vehicle suspect in Southeast Bakersfield. The suspect was killed as well in a shooting with police.

According to BPD, officers tried to stop a reported stolen vehicle traveling eastbound on Highway 58, just before 9 PM. According to BPD the suspect, only identified as a man, failed to yield, went off road and crashed through a fence on the embankment.

The suspect ran on foot to the 2000 block of Feliz Drive, near Cottonwood Road. Bakersfield Police Sergeant Robert Pair said shots were fired when officers attempted to take him into custody, and both the suspect and a K9 were hit. The police K9, which has not been identified at this time, was transported to an emergency veterinary hospital, where it was pronounced dead. The suspect was also transported to a hospital and succumbed to his injuries.

On the department’s loss, Sgt. Pair said “That officer works every day with that dog, it is more than a dog to that officer, it is their best friend. That officer is understandably devastated.”

Sgt. Pair said it is also not lost on the department that a human being was killed as well. Officers involved in the incident were equipped with body-worn cameras and Sgt. Pair said the video will be released in time.

BAKERSFIELD, Calif. (KGET) – The Bakersfield Police Department is at a shooting investigation in the area of Feliz Drive and Franco Road in Southeast Bakersfield. Further details of the officer-involved shooting have not yet been released.

This is a developing story and will be updated when more information becomes available.