A police chase ended in a deadly rollover crash in Homewood that killed an innocent motorist and sparked a manhunt for a suspect who fled the wreckage.

The Jefferson County Coroner’s Office on Tuesday identified the fatality victim as Robyn Naftel Herring. She was a 42-year-old Homewood mother of two daughters and, according to her online biography, worked as a nurse practitioner at UAB Hospital.

The ordeal began shortly after 6:30 p.m. when Vestavia Hills police conducted a traffic stop on I-65 near Alford Avenue, according to a VHPD press statement. During the stop, the suspect fled the scene and proceeded north on I-65.

Vestavia officers tried to catch up to the suspect vehicle on I-65 and observed the suspect vehicle exit onto Lakeshore Parkway. As the officer exited the interstate, he saw that the suspect vehicle - a Nissan Juke - had crashed into oncoming traffic.

“The VHPD officer immediately stopped and rendered first aid to the victims and requested medical attention. The suspect fled on foot from the scene. A multi-agency search was initiated for the suspect. This crash resulted in the loss of an innocent life,” the statement read.

Homewood police Sgt. John Carr said when Homewood officers arrived, a Vestavia officer was rendering aid to victims in a blue Jeep Wrangler. Herring was a passenger in the front seat. A male driver was uninjured, and two children in the back seat were also unharmed.

No officers were injured.

Investigators determined that a suspect from the vehicle that caused the crash fled on foot towards the woods south of Lakeshore. Carr said the suspect is a Black male last seen wearing black pants with no shirt.

Police called the fatal crash a “tragic event” and said Homewood police will take the lead in the traffic homicide investigation. “The Vestavia Hills Police Department is fully cooperating with the Homewood PD during this investigation,’' VHPD said.

A police chased ended in a deadly rollover crash in Homewood and sparked a manhunt for a suspect who fled the wreckage. (Howard Koplowitz)

A large perimeter has been set up with Vestavia Hills and Homewood police searching the area. A helicopter also joined in on the search. A lookout bulletin has been issued to surrounding law enforcement agencies. The suspect remains at large.

This story will be updated as more information becomes available.