LYON COUNTY, Nev. (KOLO) - 9:45 P.M. UPDATE: The explosives team from Douglas County arrived on scene and determined the grenade located next to the suspect was not active. No other explosives were located and the scene was deemed safe. The incident remains under investigation.

7:00 P.M. UPDATE: The man that law enforcement was negotiating with at a home in Stagecoach is dead and officers are now investigating a possible explosive device found near the suspect.

Deputies determined that the man was inside a large tent in the backyard of the property. They were able to make verbal contact with him and tried for several hours to get him to exit the tent.

According to investigators, when the man stopped communicating with law enforcement, deputies dismantled the tent where they discovered that the man had died from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Several firearms were also reportedly found near the man’s body, along with a grenade.

The Douglas County Sheriff’s Office Explosive Ordinance Disposal Team has been called to the scene and are actively attempting to determine if the device is real and will dispose of it in a safe manner.

5:30 P.M. UPDATE: The ‘shelter in place’ order in Stagecoach has been lifted, the Lyon County Sheriff’s Office announced Monday evening.

No other information about the barricaded suspect was released. But the sheriff’s office said there is no longer a threat to public safety.

The shelter in place order has been lifted in Stagecoach. I do not have additional information to release at this time... Posted by Lyon County Sheriff's Office - Nevada on Monday, May 3, 2021

2:30 P.M. UPDATE: The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office released new details into a situation that prompted a shelter in place warning for residents in Stagecoach.

Deputies were called to a home on Pawnee Drive near Cimarron Trail around 9:30 a.m. Monday, May 3 for a report of a family dispute, resulting in gunshots being fired.

When deputies arrived, they found evidence of a shooting and learned that the suspect had barricaded himself on the property. The family members were evacuated from the home and are safe.

Sheriff’s Office SWAT and Crisis Negotiators are on scene. Residents in the area are asked to stay inside their homes.

There are no injuries reported at this time.

2 P.M. UPDATE: An ongoing situation in Stagecoach has prompted authorities to halt some Lyon County school bus stops.

The stops impacted are north of Highway 50, east of Boyer Lane, and west of Stagecoach Drive, Santa Fe Trail areas.

The sheriff’s office said students who are supposed to be dropped off in one of these locations are being held at school until the area is secure and safe.

Authorities said the situation is still active and people in the area should remain inside their homes.

ORIGINAL STORY: The Lyon County Sheriff’s Office is asking residents in Stagecoach to shelter in place while they respond to what they called a “law enforcement emergency.”

The area affected is Pawnee Drive and Iroquois Trail.

According to a Facebook post: “We are asking that if you live in or around that area to please shelter in place until further notice.”

Stay with KOLO 8 News Now on this developing story.

Copyright 2021 KOLO. All rights reserved.