Adamant that he's innocent, Kevin Campbell slowly stood, paused and took a deep breath before speaking at his sentencing for killing the mother of three of his children.

"I am not responsible for Tiara's death but someone is. And I promise I will not rest until I find out who," Campbell said in a Valparaiso courtroom.

Advertisement

Campbell, 33, was sentenced Friday to 55 years in prison after a Porter County jury found him guilty earlier this year of murder in the shooting of 30-year-old Thomas, his ex-girlfriend, Nov. 18, 2015, at the Portage apartment she shared with her fiance.

"How dare him," prosecuting attorney Matthew Frost said after hearing Campbell speak.

Advertisement

If Campbell wants to find who killed Thomas, "all he has to do is look in the mirror," Frost said.

People in the courtroom wept as family members of Campbell and Thomas took the stand Friday.

"One moment Tiara and I were preparing wedding invitations, and the next moment, she was gone," Marqtell Robinson, Thomas' fiance, said.

Robinson said he "found true love" with Thomas, and he wishes she was alive to raise her three children who are struggling after her death.

"She gave everything to her children. It was who she was and was most proud of," Campbell said.

Campbell and Thomas' three children together were a focus at sentencing, and Robinson said "no child should have to live with the nightmare of their father killing their mother."

"I can't comprehend how a man could be so cold and callous to kill the woman he said he loved," Robinson said.

Michael Thomas, Thomas' brother, said when he drove up for the sentencing from Georgia yesterday, he purposefully took a longer route to see the mountains and rivers simply because he could.

Advertisement

"Tiara doesn't get to," Michael Thomas said.

Alicia Campbell, Kevin Campbell's wife, asked Judge Roger Bradford for a sentence that would make it possible for Campbell to get to know his young children, including the two sons they have together.

"Everybody needs their parents," she said.

Kevin Campbell apologized to his wife and children, saying "there's no place I'd rather be on this earth" than with them.

To his children with Tiara Thomas, Kevin Campbell said, "I would give you my life to give you hers."

Frost said he found the manipulation Campbell had over his children in the case "stunning." Campbell's and Thomas' oldest son together took the stand at his father's trial to talk about the days leading up to his mother's death.

Advertisement

From his children, Campbell learned Robinson's work schedule and got a key to the apartment to get in when Thomas was alone, Frost said. He used taking his children to school as an alibi when he shot Thomas while she slept, according to Frost.

Campbell was "drowning financially" in the months leading up to her death, prosecutors said, with his car repossessed, calls from bill collectors and increased child support payments to Thomas. But Campbell said Friday that the prosecution's argument for his motive "does not make sense."

"There's no question in my mind that he loved Tiara," Kent Campbell, Kevin Campbell's father, said.

Kevin Campbell was "always a hard-working guy" who worked multiple jobs while he was police officer in Hammond and Gary, his father said. Kevin Campbell has no criminal history, not even as much as a speeding ticket, Susan Severtson, one of Campbell's attorneys, said.

It's Campbell's background in law enforcement that Frost and Bradford said they found particularly troubling.

"He was supposed to be protecting the community, not killing people," Bradford said.

Advertisement

As a police officer, Campbell said he's learned "there's a haste" from the community and family of a loved one "to look to someone to blame" after a death. Campbell said he forgave Thomas' family for "hatred and hard feelings."

"I feel like you guys know me better than this," he said.

Campbell said he will "never give up fighting for my freedom and proving my innocence" and said he plans to appeal.

rejacobs@post-trib.com

Twitter @ruthyjacobs