The family of a man who was fatally shot by at least one FBI agent as authorities were serving an arrest warrant against his son in Sun Valley have filed wrongful death claims against the city of Los Angeles.

Vahram Kesablyan, 55, of Fresno sustained multiple gunshot wounds on the morning of Jan. 8 in the 10300 block of Horse Haven Street and was pronounced dead at a hospital later that day, according to authorities. Los Angeles Police Department officers and Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department deputies were executing the search warrant along with the FBI, according to the claims.

FBI spokesman Michael Gifford previously said in a statement that one of their agents “discharged” their weapon after an altercation, resulting in one person being wounded and taken to the hospital.

In the claims filed on July 6, the family alleged that Vahram Kesablyan was fatally shot while 20 FBI agents, along with LAPD officers and sheriff’s department deputies, executed an arrest warrant against the man’s adult son, Kirakos Kesablyan.

The family also alleged in the claims, which are precursors to lawsuits, that LAPD used excessive force, was negligent, and unreasonably searched and seized Vahram Kesablyan, and caused a loss of familial relationship without due process, among other things.

They contended that the elder Kesablyan had been “sitting in his parked car outside of the residence” in which his son and four granchildren live to drive the grandchildren to school.

He “did not pose a threat” to the agents or officers “or anyone at the time that he was shot,” according to the claims.

However, preliminary information from the FBI appeared to contradict that account, placing the son outside the home and his father inside the home, according to the coroner’s autopsy report. An FBI agent stated that “inside the residence, the decedent was engaged by agents and produced a weapon.”

Agents then fired their M4 rifles and “the decedent sustained multiple gunshot wounds,” according to the report.

It was not immediately clear why there was a discrepancy in accounts.

Kirakos Kesablyan was arrested the same day. He has since agreed to plead guilty to a felony charge of being a felon in possession of firearms and ammunition, according to a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office. He is scheduled to formally enter the plea on Tuesday.

As is customary, the city of Los Angeles denied these claims, according to a spokesman for the Los Angeles City Attorney’s office.

It was not immediately clear Friday if the family had also filed a legal claim against the FBI and the Sheriff’s Department. An FBI spokeswoman did not respond to the question.

Vahram Kesablyan’s three family members – wife Anit Stepanyan and sons Kirakos Kesablyan and Kadzhik Kesablyan – are seeking together about $80 million in damages from the city of Los Angeles for the man’s death, according to the claims.

Family members reached Friday declined to comment.

The FBI’s Inspection Division was investigating the agent-involved shooting.

Editor’s note: Due to incorrect information received by the FBI, an earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Justice was also investigating the agent-involved shooting. It is not.