Second victim of Interstate 95 crash connected to police pursuit dies, officials say

A crash on Interstate 95 that is connected to a police pursuit has now claimed the lives of two young men, according to state police.Authorities said the passenger of the vehicle, 20-year-old Adam J. Rodriguez, of Revere, has died.The driver of the vehicle, 22-year-old Wildan Tmusic, also of Revere, was also killed in the crash.According to the Massachusetts State Police, a trooper attempted to stop a 2020 Toyota RAV4 for speeding on I-95 north in Sharon.The trooper said the vehicle refused to stop and fled at an extremely high rate of speed. Troop H Headquarters authorized the state trooper to pursue the vehicle.Moments later, the RAV4 crashed in the area of Exit 11 in Norwood while still traveling at a very high rate of speed. Officials said the state trooper immediately requested emergency medical services and the fire department to respond to the scene, and that responding troopers performed emergency first aid on both men.Tmusic was transported to Good Samaritan Medical Center in Brockton, where he was pronounced dead upon arrival.State police said Rodriguez was transported to Boston Medical Center, where he later succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.No other vehicles were involved in the crash, according to authorities.Troop H of the Massachusetts State Police, the state police detective unit assigned to the Norfolk District Attorney's Office, the State Police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction Section and the State Police Crime Services Section are investigating the crash.

A crash on Interstate 95 that is connected to a police pursuit has now claimed the lives of two young men, according to state police.

Authorities said the passenger of the vehicle, 20-year-old Adam J. Rodriguez, of Revere, has died.

Advertisement

The driver of the vehicle, 22-year-old Wildan Tmusic, also of Revere, was also killed in the crash.

According to the Massachusetts State Police, a trooper attempted to stop a 2020 Toyota RAV4 for speeding on I-95 north in Sharon.

The trooper said the vehicle refused to stop and fled at an extremely high rate of speed. Troop H Headquarters authorized the state trooper to pursue the vehicle.



Moments later, the RAV4 crashed in the area of Exit 11 in Norwood while still traveling at a very high rate of speed. Officials said the state trooper immediately requested emergency medical services and the fire department to respond to the scene, and that responding troopers performed emergency first aid on both men.

Tmusic was transported to Good Samaritan Medical Center in Brockton, where he was pronounced dead upon arrival.

State police said Rodriguez was transported to Boston Medical Center, where he later succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.

No other vehicles were involved in the crash, according to authorities.

Troop H of the Massachusetts State Police, the state police detective unit assigned to the Norfolk District Attorney's Office, the State Police Collision Analysis and Reconstruction Section and the State Police Crime Services Section are investigating the crash.