A 17-year-old who was airlifted last week from the scene of a shootout between law enforcement officers and a man suspected of kidnapping the teen has died, troopers say.

Kenneth Peden III, the man accused in the kidnapping, is expected to be charged Friday in the teen’s death. Court records filed last week allege Peden tried to kill the teen and seriously injured the teen using a handgun.

The records do not provide further details about the teen’s injuries, and authorities have not said whether the teen suffered any injuries in the exchange of gunfire.

The Oregon State Police has not publicly identified the teen. But social media posts from family members and an online fundraiser identified the teen as Oliver “Ollie” Taylor.

The Taylor family posted a tribute to their child on social media Wednesday:

“Molly ‘Ollie’ was granted (the) final desire of donating organs. We appreciate the prayers, meals, phone calls, and other messages of support. Molly/Ollie is such an amazing child with a quirky sense of humor, who impacted so many people, and we will miss (Molly/Ollie) terribly as we try to move forward, but we are comforted by the knowledge that we will be with (Molly/Ollie) again someday.”

Taylor was a student at Gervais High School and involved in a variety of activities, including FFA and track and field, according to the GoFundMe page.

A candlelight vigil in honor of Taylor’s memory is scheduled on the Gervais High lawn after an FFA banquet at 8 p.m. Thursday, May 20.

The incident leading to Taylor’s death began about 4:45 p.m. on May 12 when Gervais police responded to a disturbance in the 1000 block of Depot Court, according to the state police, which is investigating the shooting.

When officers arrived they found Arik Reed, 22, suffering from a gunshot wound. Reed was taken to Salem Hospital.

Reed’s father told KPTV (12) his son was trying to stop the alleged kidnapping when he got shot.

Officers also learned that Peden, 20, of Woodburn, had kidnapped Taylor after the shooting and left the area in his truck.

The information was broadcast to all Marion County law enforcement and, shortly afterward, a Marion County sheriff’s deputy located the truck occupied by Peden and Taylor.

Peden fled from law enforcement officers, according to the state police. Troopers said he fired multiple rounds toward the law enforcement officers while traveling through Silverton.

Peden stopped on Oregon 214 near Forest Ridge Road Northeast, troopers said, and he exchanged gunfire with a county deputy and two Silverton police officers.

Peden was arrested and taken to the Marion County Jail. Taylor was flown from the scene for treatment of life-threatening injuries.

Peden is accused of first-degree attempted murder with a firearm, second-degree attempted murder with a firearm, unlawful use of a weapon, first-degree kidnapping and fleeing and attempting to elude in a vehicle.

No officers were hurt during the exchange of gunfire, though bullets hit some of their vehicles, state police said.

The officers involved in the shooting have been identified as Deputy Ron Cereghino, who has 23 years in law enforcement, and Silverton police officers J.J. Lamoreaux and Braden Anderson. Lamoreaux has 14 years in law enforcement and Anderson one year.

The state police has in news releases referred to Taylor using gender information that appears to be incorrect.

— The Oregonian/OregonLive