5/17 3:45 PM UPDATE

The Omaha Police Department released the name of the man killed in an officer-involved shooting on Sunday.

Police identified the man as 34-year-old Deven Telford. He was pronounced dead at the scene. An autopsy is scheduled for Tuesday morning.

None of the responding officers were injured in the incident.

The officers who discharged their firearms have been placed on administrative leave and investigators will be interviewing them on Tuesday.

Police said the ordeal was captured on cruiser video and officers also used body-worn cameras but some of the incident can’t be seen due to their positions of cover.

Ballistics testing will take place over the next few days. Detectives are continuing to review video and speak with witnesses.

Read the Omaha Police Department’s account of the incident:

On Sunday, May 16, 2021 at 5:36pm, Omaha Police Officers were dispatched to 4107 S 41st Avenue for an assault in progress. The original 911 call indicated a white male, later identified as Deven Telford (5/11/87), was inside of the residence armed with a handgun, intoxicated, and discharging the firearm. There were several individuals inside the residence with Telford when he started shooting the gun. The individuals stated Telford became very upset about some personal issues and began drinking excessively, which was uncustomary for Telford. It was reported Telford began making suicidal comments while he shaved his beard and put on his old military uniform (described as fatigues, boots and hat from his prior military service). Witnesses said Telford pulled out a handgun from his waistband and repeatedly said he was going to ‘give-in’ because he was tired. Witnesses stated Telford shot the gun approximately 9 times while inside the house and at one point positioned the gun against his temple while crying and stating he wanted to end his life. One individual attempted to get the gun away from Telford which prompted Telford to point the gun passed the individual’s head and shoot twice; the individual stated they could feel concussions from the gunshots and Telford was becoming more visibly agitated. The individuals exited the residence and one of them called police.



Officers arrived on scene at approximately 5:40pm and heard shots inside the residence, it was determined that Telford fired numerous gunshots while inside the house. Officers cleared people in the immediate area to safety and set up a perimeter around the residence. An Omaha Fire Department ambulance was put on stand-by in the area and a trained OPD negotiator responded to the scene. The negotiator made phone contact with Telford and attempted to de-escalate the situation. Telford used expletives to describe his life while speaking with the negotiator and made comments that he ‘was done’. The negotiator continually tried to convince Telford to put his gun down and come outside peacefully. After approximately 20 minutes of correspondence, Telford entered the enclosed front porch with his handgun while an officer repeatedly gave directions over a loudspeaker to put down his firearm and raise his hands. Instead of following the officer’s directions, Telford discharged his firearm multiple times before exiting the front door of the porch. Telford was holding the firearm in his hand and officers continued to command Telford to drop the gun. Telford did not comply and witness officers describe hearing an additional gunshot. Five officers discharged their firearms and Telford was struck by gunfire. Officers attempted to render initial aid to Telford until OFD medics quickly took over. Telford was pronounced dead at the scene and a 9mm H&K p30 handgun (which was unregistered) was located on the ground near him. None of the responding officers were injured during this incident.



The event was recorded on cruiser video and officers at the scene utilized body cameras but due to their positions of cover portions of the encounter cannot be seen on the body cameras. Detectives continue to review video, speak with witnesses, and conduct ballistics testing over the course of the next few days. An autopsy is scheduled to occur in the morning and as more information becomes available it will be released. The officers who discharged their firearms have been placed on administrative leave and tomorrow investigators will begin interviewing them. The Omaha Police Officer-Involved Investigations Team assisted by the Nebraska State Patrol are investigating.

Omaha Police Department

5/17/21 8 AM update:

Omaha Police say one man is dead following an officer-involved shooting Sunday evening.

Around 5:30 p.m., officers were dispatched to the area of S. 41st Ave. and F St for an assault in progress.

Authorities say the original 9-11 call indicated a white male in his 30's was inside of the home, armed with a handgun and discharging the firearm.

At around 5:40 p.m., officers arrived on the scene and heard gunfire inside the home. Individuals inside the home were able to exit without injury, leaving only the man inside.

A perimeter was set up around the home and an Omaha Fire Department ambulance was put on stand-by.

A trained negotiator with the police department responded to the scene and made contact with the armed man by phone in an attempt to de-escalate the situation.

After about 20 minutes of talking with the armed man, he stepped into an enclosed porch area while an officer told him to put down his firearm and raise his hands.

Police say he discharged his firearm multiple times before leaving the porch.

Officers commanded the man to drop his firearm. The man then stepped outside of the front porch and fired one additional time.

Police discharged their firearms and the man was struck by gunfire.

Medics attempted to help the man who was eventually pronounced dead at the scene.

The firearm was found on the ground near the man.

This is a developing story. Stay with us for updates on-air and online.

5/16/21 original story:

The investigation is ongoing at this time and the Nebraska State Patrol is assisting the Omaha Police Officer-Involved Investigations Team.

An updated press release will be provided at a later time with more details via the Omaha Police Department Public Information Office.

Early Sunday evening, Omaha police officers were called to a home near S. 41st Ave. and F Street.

OPD confirmed to 3 News Now that a man was pacing in a home and then exited the front of home. At some point during the incident, officers discharged their weapons several times.

A public information officer said, "Commands were given and shots were fired."

The police department says officers haven't been interviewed yet and haven't given their reports yet.

This is a developing story.

Regarding the incident at 41st Ave F St, official information will come from the OPD PIO office or the Chief of Police; we will keep the public updated, incident just occurred and is actively under investigation. — Omaha Police Dept (@OmahaPolice) May 16, 2021