A man wanted for questioning in a Graysville homicide was shot to death by lawmen after an interstate chase in northern Jefferson County.

Alabama State Troopers Tuesday night identified the slain suspect as Timothy James Hogland. He was 32 and lived in Adamsville. He had several prior arrests for robbery and receiving stolen property - both in 2009 - but those charges were dismissed.

The shooting happened about 11:18 a.m. at the intersection of Alabama 160 and Skyline Drive off I-65 at the Hayden exit. Hogland was pronounced dead on the scene.

The ordeal began with last week’s slaying of 40-year-old Jeremy Joseph Sehhat, which happened Thursday night.

Graysville police detectives Tony Washington and Allen Poythress, along with Officer C. Howard, were able to identify a suspect in the slaying and began to actively search for him.

A murder suspect was fatally shot by lawmen Tuesday, May 18, 2021, following a chase on I-65.

On Tuesday morning, Washington told AL.com, they learned a possible location for Hogland in northern Jefferson County and notified authorities there. The suspect then barricaded himself in a trailer that was surrounded by authorities.

He eventually jumped out of a window and fled the scene in a Honda CRV. At that point, the chase was on.

Law enforcement pursued him on Interstate 65 until he exited in Hayden. He struck at least one Blount County sheriff’s vehicle and then bailed from his disabled SUV.

Next, authorities said, Hogland tried to carjack an innocent female motorist before turning the gun toward lawmen. Multiple officers returned fire, killing the suspect.

Authorities have not said which agencies had officers fire on the suspect.

Agencies on the scene include the Alabama State Troopers, Graysville police, Adamsville police, Warrior police, and the Blount County Sheriff’s Office.

A Blount County deputy whose vehicle was rammed during the incident was taken to an emergency room as a precaution.

The SBI is taking lead in today’s shooting.