The incident happened near 1401 E. Girard Place, according to the Englewood Police Department.

Example video title will go here for this video

ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — A 22-year-old man who was in a stolen car was shot by at least one Englewood police officer and later died from his injuries after he dragged several officers with the vehicle, according to the Englewood Police Department (EPD).

The shooting happened shortly before 11 a.m. in the area of 1401 E. Girard Place, a tweet from EPD says.

The man killed was identified by the Arapahoe County Coroner's Office as Caleb Grisenti.

Police told 9NEWS at the scene, officers were initially called to a report of a suspicious vehicle. Officers checked the license plates on that vehicle and it came back as stolen, police said.

Grisenti and a woman were inside the car when officers tried to make contact, EPD said. Grisenti was driving and attempted to drive away and dragged three officers, according to EPD. Officers fired at the suspect who was struck by the gunfire, according to police.

Grisenti was taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead, EPD said. The woman who was in the passenger seat of the car was taken into custody, EPD said.

Three Englewood officers were injured in the incident after being dragged by the suspect's car, EPD said. They were taken to the hospital for treatment of their injuries and two of them were treated and released Tuesday. EPD said the third officer was released from the hospital Wednesday morning.

The 18th Judicial Critical Incident Response Team was at the scene to conduct an independent investigation into the shooting. EPD said there is body camera footage of the incident, but that footage would not be released until the officers involved could be interviewed.

Metro Denver Crime Stoppers

Anyone with information is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 720-913-7867 or visit metrodenvercrimestoppers.com. Tipsters can remain anonymous and may be eligible for a reward of up to $2,000.

Metro Denver Crime Stoppers works by assigning a code to people who anonymously submit a tip. Information is shared with law enforcement, and Crime Stoppers are notified at the conclusion of the investigation.

From there, an awards committee reviews the information provided and, if the information leads to an arrest, the tipster will be notified. Rewards can be collected using the code numbers received when the tip was originally submitted.

> More information about Metro Denver Crime Stoppers can be found here.

> Additional Crime Stoppers bulletins can be found here.

Northern Colorado Crime Stoppers

Anyone with information is asked to contact Northern Colorado Crime Stoppers at info@nococrimestoppers.com or 1-800-222-8477. Tipsters can remain anonymous and may be eligible for a reward of up to $2,000.

Calls to the Northern Colorado Crime Stoppers are not recorded and the phone does not have caller ID, according to the NoCoCrimestoppers website. A coordinator completes a tips information form, makes initial inquiries and passes the information along to investigators.

A two-way dialogue system online also allows tipsters to come back and provide additional information and ask questions.

A community board of directors meets regularly to evaluate arrests and determine reward amounts.

> More information about Northern Colorado Crime Stoppers can

MORE WAYS TO GET 9NEWS

Subscribe to our daily 9NEWSLETTER for top stories from 9NEWS curated daily just for you. Get content and information right now for can’t-miss stories, Next and Broncos content, weather and more delivered right to your inbox.

DOWNLOAD THE 9NEWS APP

iTunes: http://on9news.tv/itunes

Google Play: http://on9news.tv/1lWnC5n

HOW TO ADD THE 9NEWS APP TO YOUR STREAMING DEVICE

ROKU: add the channel from the ROKU store or by searching for KUSA.

For both Apple TV and Fire TV, search for "9news" to find the free app to add to your account. Another option for Fire TV is to have the app delivered directly to your Fire TV through Amazon.