BUFFALO, N.Y. (WKBW) — A mother and daughter were shot and killed early Thursday morning in the Black Rock neighborhood and the suspect is dead from a self-inflicted gunshot, according to Buffalo police.

Officers responded around 6:00 a.m. to the report of two people shot on Layer Avenue, police initially said their injuries appeared serious in nature.

Police later confirmed the two victims, 27-year-old Megan Wisniewski and 63-year-old Margie Ramos, were killed. They say it was a domestic incident and it is being investigated as a homicide. A 6-year-old was inside the Layer Avenue home at the time of the shootings.

"My neice called from my sisters phone. I was sleeping. It went to voicemail. I woke up. Once I woke up, about 15 minutes later, I listened to the voicemail. It was my neice crying saying 'Casey, mom's dying.' It was, 'Help Casey mom's dying.' I love you bye," Casey Wisniewski, the brother and son of the victims, said.

We spoke to Casey Wisniewski, the brother and son of the victims. Following Megan Wisniewski and Margie Ramos' passing, and the death of his other sister from cancer, he says it's now just him and his dad.

"All I know is my niece is safe, and I'm now the only the only sibling left out of four. It's just me and my dad," Wisniewski said.

Neighbors who spoke with 7 Eyewitness News at the scene said the gunfire woke them up. One said he heard about 10 shots fired, and saw a man run and get in a black car and speed off down Layer Avenue towards Military Road.

"We were just at their daughter's funeral that they buried two days ago who died of cancer," Duane Keifman, neighbor and friend of the victims, said, "I can't believe it happened. It shouldn't have. Now there's a little girl that has no mother or grandmother."

Wisniewski's sister and Margie Ramos' daughter died last week from cancer. Her funeral was Monday.

"After her funeral on Monday... It was emotional enough as it was. I told my sister that I loved her and I needed her. She said, 'I know I need you too,' and now I don't even have her," Wisniewski said.

Police confirmed to 7 Eyewitness News as of just before 11:00 a.m. there was a SWAT standoff situation in the area of Carolina and 10th Streets between law enforcement and the suspect, a 36-year-old Buffalo man. In an update around 12:00 p.m. police said the suspect was dead from a self-inflicted gunshot.

WKBW

Police said the suspect is Megan's ex-boyfriend. They have yet to release his name.

"I honestly didn't think the person who did it would do it because from any encounter I had with him he seemed like a nice guy. He seemed like the typical person my sister would go for. He was a really nice guy. He treated my niece great to the point where when they first split up she was letting him go see them because she was calling him dad," Wisniewski said.

Megan's 6-year-old daughter is now in the care of family.

If you or someone you know is experiencing domestic violence help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Family Justice Center can be reached at 558-7233 and Crisis Services at 834-3131.