A state trooper responding to a domestic call shot and killed a 55-year-old man outside his Williams Township home Sunday afternoon, authorities said.

Police were called to 940 Berger Road at 2:34 p.m. by a woman who was screaming and in distress, Northampton County District Attorney Terry Houck said. A trooper arrived five minutes later to find a man outside acting erratically, and then he shot the man, who was white, Houck said.

The shooting happened between 2:39 and 2:44 p.m. The trooper fired two shots, according to a state police news release.

The relationship between the man and woman is under investigation, Houck said.

The woman was uninjured and was being interviewed at state police barracks shortly afterward.

Carol Lytwyn, who has lived at 960 Berger Road for 31 years, estimates the owner of 940 Berger Road, whom she knew only by his first name, lived there for nearly as long.

She said she started to get to know him in the last year, while he was building a stone wall in front of his house. She said they would talk while she was out on her daily morning walks.

“He was talkative and friendly. Not a mean streak to him. He would talk your ear off,” she said.

She described him as a little eccentric, a little “different,” but “a nice guy.”

“He has a wealth of information about odd things,” like cars and various animals, she said.

He had plans, too. He recently bought rabbits and wanted to build a duck pond. Last week he bought an old, French three-wheeler he was going to repair. And he recently told her he was going to get a camper and go south.

The stone wall, he told Lytwyn, he wanted to build for his wife.

Lytwyn never met a woman or knew he had a wife, or what the man did for a living.

Sunday morning, Lytwyn said hello as she does everyday, but this time, he only said a curt “hello” back.

“I did find that to be a little strange,” she said.

Later in the afternoon, she stared in the direction of his house in disbelief.

“I just can’t believe that I talked to him this morning, and then this,” she said. “It makes me really sad.”

Greg Ritter, who lives at 965 Berger Road, said he heard the sounds of target shooting nearby throughout the morning. But around 2:30 p.m., while working on his backyard shed, he heard two or three pops that sounded much closer and higher pitched.

“They sounded different,” he said.

He went inside to get a drink and watched state police cars line up.

This is the second police-involved fatal shooting in the Lehigh Valley in three months. In February, 27-year-old Ryan Shirey was shot dead by Catasauqua police during a confrontation in his house.

Morning Call reporter Kayla Dwyer can be reached at 610-820-6554 or at kdwyer@mcall.com.