PARKERSBURG, W.Va. (WTAP) -

UPDATE: 5/24/21

One man is dead after an officer-involved shooting in Parkersburg.

According to Parkersburg Police Chief Joe Martin, police responded to a reported stabbing in progress at the Oakwood Village Apartments in south Parkersburg on Sunday, May 23rd.

On scene, Authorities identified one victim, a 60-year-old woman, who was stabbed multiple times by a meat cleaver. There was another woman involved who was not injured but Martin said it appears the suspect cut the leash that was attached to her dog with the meat cleaver. The dog was not harmed.

The suspect was identified 34-year-old Rufus James Ramsey III, who was still in possession of the weapon.

Martin said an officer gave multiple commands for Ramsey to drop his weapon, which he did not do. The officer had to take action and use “deadly force.” Ramsey was then shot by the officer and pronounced dead at the scene. Oakwood Village Apartment resident, Ronald Drennen said he heard gunshots around 3:15 p.m.. He then went outside his apartment and saw the alleged victim.

“She was lying there...it looked like she was trying to get up or tuen over,” Drennen said. “I started to walk that way but then a police officer came out, just one. By the time I took a couple more steps there was a lot of police officers. You couls tell she was in pain...at first I thought she was shot because I heard the gunshot.”

The name of the victim has not been released at this time nor has the name of the officer involved in the shooting. We do know the officer has been with the Parkersburg Police Department for 19 months.

Martin says the department does not believ any drugs were involved with this incedent and will be investigating to see if mental illness played any role in how the suspect was acting.

Martin said the officer has been reassigned from the patrol division pending further internal and external investigation and will undergo critical incedent counceling.

Original Story:

The Parkersburg Police Department is investigating an incident on Beverly Street in Parkersburg.

There is not much known about the incident at this time.

WTAP has a reporter at the scene and we will have more information as it becomes available.

Copyright 2021 WTAP. All rights reserved.