UPDATE: 5:15 p.m. The suspect who police say attempted to carjack a female driver early in the day Tuesday, and who was later shot and killed by police, has been identified as 37-year-old Robert Pearce of New Iberia.

Police say Pearce attempted to carjack a female motorist while armed with what appeared to be a handgun near Sixth Street and Utah Street in Berwick.

It was later determined that the handgun was a BB gun pistol, Spokesperson TPR Thomas Gossen said.

As Pearce made entry into the female motorist’s vehicle with the weapon, police said, responding law enforcement personnel discharged their service weapons striking Pearce, Gossen said.

He was pronounced dead at the scene by the St. Mary Parish Coroner’s Office.

No other injuries were reported.

UPDATE, 1:37 p.m.: Louisiana State Police confirmed that the suspect shot by a deputy early this morning in Berwick was allegedly attempting to carjack a woman.

The suspect, who has not yet been identified, has several active warrants. Berwick Police and St. Mary Parish sheriff’s deputies were called out at around 2:30 a.m. this morning on a “suspicious persons” call. When law enforcement met the suspect, a pursuit began. The suspect was shot as he attempted to carjack an innocent bystander. The bystander was not injured.

ORIGINAL POST: BERWICK, La. (KLFY) — One person is dead and a Louisiana State Police investigation is underway after a deputy-involved shooting in St. Mary Parish this morning.

St. Mary Parish Sheriff Blaise Smith said the shooting happened in the “early morning hours” today in Berwick. No information has been released on the shooting or the person who was killed.

“It is an unfortunate and tragic event that caused the loss of life,” stated Smith in a press release this morning. “I stand behind and support the actions of my deputies and we are cooperating fully with the Louisiana State Police in this investigation.”

Louisiana State Police declined to comment on the investigation this morning. More information may be forthcoming.