MINNEAPOLIS — One man is dead and another injured in an early morning shooting Saturday, June 5, in Minneapolis that involved a Metro Transit police officer shooting a suspect in the leg.

The Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the incident that happened just after 2 a.m. in the area of Hennepin Avenue and South Fifth Street.

Metro Transit police officers came upon an altercation between two men. They witnessed one man shoot the other.

The officers engaged the shooter, and one shot the suspect in the leg, Metro Transit said in a release.

The victim, who was shot by the suspect, was taken to Hennepin Healthcare, where he died. The suspect, who was shot in the leg by the officer, was also taken to Hennepin Healthcare, where he was treated for an injury that was not life-threatening and then taken to the Hennepin County Detention Center pending criminal charges.

ADVERTISEMENT

The BCA is investigating the Metro Transit officer-involved incident. The Minneapolis Police Department is investigating the homicide witnessed by officers.

This is one of three overnight homicides that Minneapolis police are investigating. These are the other two:

At 1:37 am, police were notified that a woman, who had been shot in the 2200 block of North 2nd Street, had turned up at North Memorial Medical Center. Officers responded to the hospital to speak to the woman, but were told she had died from her injuries.

At 1:48 a.m., police were called to the intersection of East Lake Street and Hiawatha Avenue, under the bridge, on a report of a person shot. Police say a group of people in cars had taken over that portion of East Lake Street and were driving recklessly, doing burnouts, and causing damage to the roadway. Two of the individuals got into a dispute and began to shoot at one another. A stray bullet struck a man who had pulled over and gotten out of his car to watch the spectacle. Officers found the man suffering from a gunshot wound. He was transported to Hennepin County Medical Center where he died.

The Hennepin County medical examiner will provide the identity of the victims along with the nature and cause of death in these cases at a later date.

Anyone with information on the shootings is asked to call CrimeStoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (8477). Tips may be submitted electronically at CrimeStoppersMN.org. All tips are anonymous and those providing information leading to an arrest and conviction may be eligible for a financial reward.