OLD WASHINGTON — A man is dead following a standoff with law enforcement at his camper inside the Oak Hill Mobile Home Village and RV Park late Saturday night.

The body of 39-year-old David O'Donnell Reagan was sent to the Franklin County Coroner's Office for an autopsy that is expected to be completed by Wednesday, according to Guernsey County Coroner Dr. Sandra Schubert.

The coroner said she was not able to establish a cause of death from her preliminary examination at the scene.

The standoff reportedly followed a domestic dispute at Salt Fork Lodge and Conference Center on the grounds of Salt Fork State Park and a subsequent pursuit that started on U.S. 22 and ended at the camper just before midnight.

Law enforcement reportedly fired baton rounds and gas canisters inside the camper during the standoff. Authorities said Reagan was seen multiple times holding a handgun to his head while challenging officers to shoot him.

A fire reportedly ignited near the front door and engulfed the camper during the incident. The cause of the fire remains under investigation by the Ohio Fire Marshal's Office and Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation.

Officers from the Guernsey County Sheriff's Office, State Highway Patrol and Cambridge Police Department participated in the pursuit and eventual standoff. Ohio Department of Natural Resources rangers also assisted during the incident.

According to law enforcement reports, deputies were alerted to an domestic dispute at Salt Fork at 11:08 p.m. Saturday. Park rangers were with a woman who was assaulted while the alleged assailant fled the park.

A 2013 Ford F-350 bearing Louisiana license plates and driven by Reagan was located on Cadiz Road (U.S. 22) and pursued westbound by deputies and patrol troopers.

Speeds during the pursuit on Cadiz Road ranged from 35 to 40 mph.

A Cambridge police officer deployed a spike strip near the intersection with Broom Road at 11:22 p.m. and one or two tires on the truck were deflated.

Reagan reportedly continued driving west on Cadiz Road to Interstate 77 where he entered the highway and traveled south, driving on the truck's rims at 50 mph.

The truck exited I-77 at East Pike Road and turned east toward the mobile home park outside Old Washington.

Law enforcement continued to pursue the Ford truck at speeds around 40 mph until Reagan turned into the mobile home park.

Reagan allegedly parked the truck and fled on foot into the camper while officers from the three agencies established a perimeter at approximately 11:39 p.m.

Two minutes later, deputies at the scene reported Reagan was in possession of a firearm and was asking for law enforcement to shoot him.

Officers reported Reagan exited the camper with the handgun pressed against his temple and walked to the truck where he retrieved two cans of beer.

During his walk back to the camper, he exposed himself and told authorities to "kiss his (expletive)" before walking back inside. He returned to the truck a second time to retrieve a bag.

Medical personnel and a MedFlight helicopter were placed on standby while officers tried to talk Reagan into surrendering and exiting the camper. He declined to follow the orders of officers.

Other homes in the mobile home park were evacuated for the safety of the residents.

Officers reported Reagan turned off the lights inside the camper and tinted windows made it difficult to see him during the standoff. He told authorities he was not "going back to prison."

The decision was made by the sheriff's office to fire non-lethal, plastic baton rounds into the camper. Reagan reportedly returned fire from inside the camper, firing approximately a half-dozen shots out through the front door.

Gas canisters were then fired into the camper by a sheriff's deputy. Authorities reported hearing a single gunshot from inside at the time the canisters entered the camper.

A short time later, a fire ignited near the front door and firefighters were dispatched to extinguish the flames. At 12:33 a.m., a sheriff's deputy reported the camper was nearly engulfed in fire.

Officers withdrew from the close perimeter around the camper to give firefighters room to extinguish the fire, but not before a propane tank exploded at 12:38 a.m., according to the dispatch log at the sheriff's office.

As the flames overtook the camper, additional gunshots or rounds exploding in the fire was reported by officers on scene. No injuries were reported outside the camper.

The coroner was notified of the death at 12:47 a.m. and BCI was requested by Sheriff Jeff Paden to assist with the investigation. The fire marshal was also requested a short time later to assist with the fire investigation.

Old Washington, Antrim and Liberty firefighters were dispatched during the incident. A highway patrol helicopter was dispatched during the pursuit, but was later canceled along with MedFlight.

The Ford truck was impounded by investigators.

Investigators remained at the scene until 7:42 a.m. Sunday.