Two Braintree Police officers were shot while responding to a domestic 911 call at an apartment complex near where a suspect was killed after he “ambushed” them in the woods, authorities said.

Norfolk District Attorney Michael Morrissey said Friday a police K-9 named Kitt that went into the woods first was also killed. The dog was a 12-year veteran of the force.

“Both officers were shot multiple times … and are in surgery,” Morrissey said. “Say a prayer. This shows how dangerous this job can be.” One officer was taken to South Shore Hospital, the other to Boston Medical Center.

UPDATE: The DA’s office said Saturday morning “both (officers) remain hospitalized and had become stable.”

Braintree Mayor Charles Kokoros said the suspect — later identified as Andrew Homen, 34, of Brockton — “fled into the woods,” and that’s where officials said it turned into a firefight. Homen was “known to police,” with an arrest warrant out against him.

Braintree Police Chief Mark Dubois said “the entire day shift” responded to the Braintree Village apartment complex to guard the perimeter and help track down Homen, who had two handguns and opened fire on the officers.

Fellow officers carried out their wounded comrades, the chief added, along with the suspect, who was pronounced dead at Milton Hospital.

Dubois added a bullet-proof vest could prove pivotal in this case, possibly saving one of the wounded officers. They were not wearing body cameras, he said.

“They were essentially ambushed,” said Morrissey, adding the shooter was in the nearby woods for 45 minutes before the K-9 flushed him out.

That dog, the chief said, was an “incredible” animal and the loss is “heartbreaking.” He also stressed that having this all erupt in the “middle of the afternoon” just shows the danger of the job.

Neighborhood residents said there was no doubt there was a gunfight in the woods.

“I thought it was fireworks, but it was too sporadic, and it was too many. I knew in a second it was gunshots and they were very close,” said Robert Cooke, 43, a homeowner who lives close by. “I heard the police yelling, ‘Get down! Get down!’ And the he yelled back, ‘What did I do? What did I do?’ I just saw more and more police show up with their weapons drawn.”

One resident of the apartment complex told the Herald her neighbor called and urged her “don’t come home yet.”

The shooting comes just a few years after another Braintree officer was shot at a now-boarded-up Motel 6 following a standoff. The suspect in that case took his own life.

Chief Dubois and the DA did not comment on if any of the officers responding to Friday’s shooting were also part of the Motel 6 confrontation. The chief did say the department will debrief and assist any officers in the days to come.