Arvada Police officers were involved in an officer-involved shooting in the 8100 block of Garland Drive on June 2.

Example video title will go here for this video

ARVADA, Colo. — The Arvada Police Department (APD) is investigating an officer-involved shooting that happened in the 8100 block of Garland Drive on Wednesday morning.

That's near Kipling Street and West 80th Avenue in Arvada.

The incident started when the suspect, identified as 24-year-old Eugene Matthews, confronted a woman who was in her SUV in the Target parking lot, located at West 79th Avenue and Wadsworth Boulevard, police said.

Matthews pointed a gun at the woman and opened her door, according to police. The woman was able to run away and was not harmed, police said.

Shortly after the first incident, police said they were called to an armed robbery at the same Target. The victim in the armed robbery said Matthews held her at gunpoint, stealing her phone and her black GMC Yukon SUV, police said.

Arvada police said Matthews then drove the stolen Yukon north from the parking lot toward Pomona Drive. He drove into a fire hydrant and through church property, and then drove into a neighborhood where he crashed into a trailer and a boat, police said. The SUV ended up near West 81st Avenue and Garland Drive and was undriveable after its collisions, according to police.

A neighbor who runs an in-home daycare saw the SUV and came outside where she was met by Matthews who was coming toward her, police said. The person ran back into their garage as Matthews began to pull his handgun, police said.

According to police, Matthews took out a weapon and fired at least once. Officers returned fire, hitting and killing Matthews.

No officers involved were injured, APD said.

According to police, Matthews was on parole at the time of the shooting.

> Top stories from 9NEWS curated daily just for you! Sign up for the 9NEWSLETTER right now to get can’t-miss stories, Next and Broncos content, weather and more delivered right to your inbox.

MORE WAYS TO GET 9NEWS

Subscribe to our daily 9NEWSLETTER for top stories from 9NEWS curated daily just for you. Get content and information right now for can’t-miss stories, Next and Broncos content, weather and more delivered right to your inbox.

DOWNLOAD THE 9NEWS APP

iTunes: http://on9news.tv/itunes

Google Play: http://on9news.tv/1lWnC5n

HOW TO ADD THE 9NEWS APP TO YOUR STREAMING DEVICE

ROKU: add the channel from the ROKU store or by searching for KUSA.

For both Apple TV and Fire TV, search for "9news" to find the free app to add to your account. Another option for Fire TV is to have the app delivered directly to your Fire TV through Amazon.