Round Rock police said an officer shot and killed a man Monday morning at a hotel after they received calls that the man had entered the lobby with a gun and had been threatening people.

Police did not identify the man who was killed or the officer involved in the shooting. No one else was injured, officials said.

Police Chief Allen Banks said the incident began when police started receiving 911 calls from the hotel, the Home2 Suites by Hilton at 1000 W. Louis Henna Blvd, at 9:45 a.m. Monday.

Callers reported that a man had entered the lobby and was pointing a handgun at people and asking, "Do you want to die?"

"We had multiple witnesses," Banks said. "Multiple victims there who were confronted by this man with a firearm."

Officers arrived at the hotel five minutes later and were confronted by the man with the gun in the lobby, Banks said. He declined to describe what prompted the officer to shoot the man. The man died at the scene after police and firefighters tried to revive him, he said.

The chief said that during the incident, multiple people fled the hotel or hid inside offices in the hotel. He declined to estimate how many witnesses there were.

People also were temporarily evacuated from nearby businesses, he said.

"The concern that we had there was, 'Is this an active shooter?' or was it going to be an active shooter?" Banks said. "It was a very active and fluid situation, and officers responding wanted to make sure those folks trapped inside were not being harmed."

Banks said officials would review body camera footage from the three officers at the scene. All three have been placed on administrative leave, as is typical for a use-of-force incident.

He said the investigation involves the FBI, the Texas Rangers and the Williamson County district attorney's office. The chief declined to say whether the man who was killed was staying at the hotel.

The most recent officer-involved shooting involving Round Rock police was in January 2018, when officials said a prowler fired at officers who were trying to arrest him.