OAKLAND — Nearly 18 months after a 42-year-old woman was killed when a stolen Audi crashed into the Subaru Outback she was driving, the Audi’s suspected driver has been charged with vehicular manslaughter, court records show.

David Garibay-Vargas, 27, was charged with manslaughter with gross negligence, leaving the scene of an accident, and driving a stolen vehicle, court records show. He has not yet entered a plea; county jail records indicate he is not being detained while the case is pending.

The victim, identified in court records as Brooke Elizabeth Smith, was struck and killed around 1 a.m. on Jan. 19, 2020, as she drove through the intersection of Grand Avenue and MacArthur Boulevard, court records show. Witnesses later reported seeing three men fleeing from the Audi, which was also damaged in the crash. Within hours of the crash, authorities publicly offered a $10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest.

According to police statements in court records, the Audi had sped away from a Piedmont police officer who attempted to pull it over shortly before the crash.

Garibay-Vargas was first identified as a possible suspect by an informant who offered up information after being arrested on unrelated charges, according to police. The informant — whose name and other identifying information, like their gender, isn’t listed in court records — told police they’d spoke to Garibay-Vargas’ brother, who told them he was in the Audi that morning and that Garibay-Vargas was driving, according to Oakland police.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Feds charge 5 men in $1.1 million takeover robbery of East Bay jewelry store, appeared to get help from insider law enforcement source

Feds charge 5 men in $1.1 million takeover robbery of East Bay jewelry store, appeared to get help from insider law enforcement source Crime and Public Safety | Man fatally shot in West Oakland

Man fatally shot in West Oakland Crime and Public Safety | Lawyers for tech consultant Nima Momeni say he had no reason to kill Cash App founder Bob Lee

Lawyers for tech consultant Nima Momeni say he had no reason to kill Cash App founder Bob Lee Crime and Public Safety | Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980

Oakland: Body found after fire along Interstate 980 Crime and Public Safety | Two fires at Berkeley apartment building investigated as possible arsons Police detained Garibay-Vargas in February and, with a warrant, took a DNA sample to test against evidence recovered from the driver’s side airbags of the Audi, according to court records. Authorities haven’t disclosed the results of the test.

Garibay-Vargas was charged June 4, and has not yet entered a plea, according to court records.

Garibay-Vargas has two prior vehicle theft convictions, both in 2018, including a conviction in June of that year on charges of driving a stolen car and evading a police officer, court records show.