OMAHA, Neb. (WOWT) - State and local law enforcement agencies are investigating an in-custody death following a crash and foot pursuit Thursday night in north Omaha, OPD Deputy Chief Ken Kanger said at the scene.

He said the Omaha Police officer involved in the incident reports that the man shot himself. No officer fired a weapon.

State and local law-enforcement agencies are investigating an in-custody death following a crash and pursuit Thursday night in north Omaha.

The incident began when an officer attempted to pull over a car for expired plates about 8 p.m. near the scene at 34th Street and Laurel Avenue, police said.

The man, with several passengers, was driving a Camaro north on 34th Street and collided with a pickup truck at Laurel Avenue. A woman and several small children, as many as four or five under the age of 6, were passengers in the car, Kanger said.

At that time, the suspect ran from the area, and officers arrived at the scene to establish a perimeter. An OPD officer put out information on police radios that the man was armed and that he was asking him to put the gun down, Kanger said.

That’s when there was gunfire, he said.

The officer told other police arriving at the scene that the man had shot himself. Officers securing the scene said they found a gun and a single casing there, Kanger said.

Nebraska State Patrol and other agencies will assist in the in-custody death investigation, he said.

Omaha Police confirmed one person is dead after a shooting Thursday night, June 10, 2021, near 36th and Laurel streets. (Brandon Tvrdy / WOWT)

Kanger said the officer involved in the incident was taken downtown as well as those who witnessed the crash including the other driver.

“Again, it’s very preliminary, and we have a lot of work to do tonight, but it does appear to be an in-custody death,” he said.

The officer was wearing a body camera, Kanger said.

The shooting happened in the same area a fatal shooting occurred about 20 hours earlier. Gunfire broke out at about 2:19 a.m. Thursday near 33rd Street and Laurel Avenue.

There is no indication the shootings are connected. Police told 6 News at the Thursday morning scene that a young man was walking through the area by himself when a car drove by, and several shots were fired at him from inside the car, hitting him in the chest.

Copyright 2021 WOWT. All rights reserved.