Updated news release:

Attorney General John M. Formella and New Hampshire State Police Colonel Nathan A. Noyes announce that additional information is available regarding the officer-involved shooting incident that took place in Pittsfield, New Hampshire, this afternoon.

On Monday, June 14, 2021, officers from the Pittsfield Police Department responded to a call regarding a domestic disturbance at 40 A Lyford Hill Road in Pittsfield, New Hampshire. Upon arriving, the Pittsfield Police called the Central New Hampshire Special Operations Unit, which is a regional SWAT Team, for assistance. An armed male subject refused to leave the residence and submit to arrest. This standoff lasted for ten (10) hours and ended when gunfire was exchanged between the male subject and the officers, resulting in the male’s death.

The deceased male is identified as Anthony Hannon, age 52, of Pittsfield, New Hampshire.

An autopsy is scheduled for Tuesday, June 15, 2021, at 8 a.m. to determine Mr. Hannon’s cause and manner of death. Additional information will be released after the autopsy.

No law enforcement officers or other private citizens were physically injured during the incident. Pursuant to protocol, the name of the officers involved in the incident are being withheld pending the conclusion of formal interviews.

The involved officers did not have body or cruiser cameras.

This incident is being investigated by the Attorney General’s Office and the New Hampshire State Police Major Crime Unit.

Additional information will be released as it becomes available.

Earlier news release

Concord, NH –Attorney General John M. Formella announces that officials are responding to an

officer-involved shooting in Pittsfield, New Hampshire, that occurred on Monday, June 14.

One man has died as a result of this incident.

The name of that man is being withheld pending notification of next of kin. No officers or other

individuals were physically harmed.

Additional information will be released as it becomes available.