Nikos Frazier and Ron Wilkins

Journal & Courier

WOLCOTT, Ind. — Indiana State Police are investigating a shooting Tuesday night after an exchange of gunfire resulted in the death of a man and injured a town marshal.

Members of the White County Sheriff’s Department, Monon town marshal and a Wolcott town deputy marshal attempted to serve an arrest warrant for Perry Boyd, 56, according to a release from the Indiana State Police.

Boyd was charged by the White County Prosecutors office on June 10 with two counts of misdemeanor battery, and a warrant was issued on June 11, according to online court records.

Police arrived at 402 W. Anderson St. in Wolcott about 9:20 p.m. Tuesday to serve the arrest warrant, and when officers found Boyd, he “retreated” into the residence, police said in the news release.

Both online court and tax records list the West Anderson Street address as Boyd’s residence.

When police went inside, Boyd and police exchanged gunfire, according to the release.

Boyd and a Wolcott town deputy marshal were both wounded in the exchange of gunfire, according to the release, which noted that medical attention was rendered to both while they awaited medical personnel.

The town deputy marshal, whom police are not currently identifying, was transported to a Lafayette hospital with “non-life-threating injuries.”

Boyd was transported by ambulance to the Monticello hospital, where, while waiting for a medical helicopter, he died from his injuries, according to the release.

Indiana State Police are investigating the shooting at the request of the White County Sheriff’s Office and say they will not be releasing the names of the officers involved until the White County Prosecutor Robert Guy reviews “the completed case investigation,” according to the release.

Investigators had the area of West Anderson Street and Fourth Street blocked off until early Wednesday morning

In October, two brothers were killed inside a house at School and Range streets. Three people are awaiting trial on those killings.

More:Three charged with murder for slaying brothers in Wolcott home

Nikos Frazier is a visual journalist for the Journal & Courier. Email him at nfrazier@jconline.com and follow him on Twitter and Instagram @nikosfrazier.

Reach Ron Wilkins at 765-420-5231 or at rwilkins@jconline.com. Follow on Twitter: @RonWilkins2.