FBI agents shot and killed a man early Wednesday in Leonia in a confrontation that authorities say stemmed from a Philadelphia kidnapping.

On Wednesday morning, agents from the FBI's Newark office surrounded the apartment complex and, after a lengthy stakeout, shot and killed a man they believed was involved in the kidnapping of a 17-year-old boy from Philadelphia.

The shooting left the neighborhood swarmed with law enforcement from a number of agencies for nearly the entire day.

Officials have yet to release many details as of Thursday. Here's what we know so far about the shooting in the small Bergen County town:

Who was shot?

FBI agents shot and killed an unidentified man suspected of kidnapping a Philadelphia teen, the agency said. The agency did not releasedetails about the man who was killed including his name, age or hometown.

Details on the shooting itself were scarce as well, including how many shots agents fired and by how many agents.

The Philadelphia kidnapping

A 17-year-old Philadelphia boy was at the center of the kidnapping investigation, the agency said. He was not harmed in the shootout and was evaluated and released from a hospital afterward.

The FBI's Philadelphia office learned the boy was being held in a Leonia apartment and its Newark agents descended on the apartment Wednesday at about 4 a.m..

The FBI did not release further details on the kidnapping or the Philadelphia office's investigation.

Which departments responded

FBI agents fired and killed the man in Leonia, and the agency is the one releasing information about the incident. Officers from the Leonia Police Department and Bergen County Prosecutor's Office also responded.

The FBI said its inspection division is investigating the shooting.

New Jersey news:We asked NJ lawmakers if they got the COVID vaccine. Here's what they said

The Lakeview apartments and Leonia neighborhood

Neighbors of the Lakeview Avenue garden apartment complex woke to a frightening sound of gunshots before 4 a.m.

Shahira Asadi, who lives next door to the apartment at the center of the standoff, said the gunfire began at about 3:45 a.m. and continued until 5 a.m. She heard FBI agents shout orders to open the door in English and Spanish.

The tree-lined street is near Overpeck Park. Authorities have not shared details about why the man came to Leonia and what his connection was to the apartment. The building, though, is not far from an Interstate 95 exit, a highway that also runs into Philadelphia.

Bergen County news:Second Mahwah drowning victim in a week is identified

What we don't know

Many of the details remain unknown about the shooting.

No information about the man who died has been released. Authorities also did not say what prompted the gunfire.

How the Philadelphia kidnapping case ended up in Leonia is not known.

The FBI statement referred to the man who was killed, but did not indicate if any other suspects were involved.

Information about the agents who fired their weapon on Wednesday or how many was not yet made public.

Joshua Jongsma is a breaking news editor for NorthJersey.com. For unlimited access to all the major news happening in North Jersey, subscribe here. To get breaking news directly to your inbox, sign up for our newsletter.

Email: jongsma@northjersey.com

Twitter: @jongsmjo