MILLBROOK — A motorist who was allegedly fleeing Millbrook police when his vehicle hit another car, killing its driver, could face murder charges in the case.

Just before midnight on Sunday, Millbrook police spotted a 2012 Dodge Charger traveling at a high rate of speed and then running a red light at the intersection of Highway 14 and Old Prattville Road, Millbrook Police Chief P.K. Johnson said.

The officer was stopped at the intersection and attempted to stop the vehicle, Johnson said, but the driver allegedly continued westbound toward Prattville.

The driver sped up and ran the red light at the Interstate 65 and Highway 14 interchange, striking a 2011 Hyundai Sonata driven by James E. Taylor, 48, of Prattville. Taylor, who was attempting to turn north onto the interstate at the time of the wreck, was pronounced dead at the scene, Johnson said.

FATAL CRASH:Prattville man killed in Elmore wreck

The Charger's driver and a passenger were injured in the wreck and taken to a Montgomery hospital for treatment.

Authorities have not named that driver because no charges had been filed. They now say the motorist could face reckless murder charges, Chief Assistant District Attorney C.J. Robinson said.

"The investigation is still very much in the early stages, and we will go where the evidence takes us," Robinson said. "But the driver of the Charger appears to be at fault. Reckless murder is certainly a charge we are considering."

Reckless murder is Class A felony with a punishment of 10 to 99 years or life in prison.

"This is a senseless and horrible tragedy that didn’t have to occur," Johnson said. "This vehicle was observed traveling at excessive speed on Highway 14, at which time the suspect vehicle blatantly and recklessly ran a red light in full view of a marked police unit. When our officer activated his emergency equipment, not only did the offender refuse to stop, he accelerated rapidly. Basically, he continued to increase his distance from our officer, who was at a dead stop at the intersection."

Because the wreck occurred during a police chase, Johnson asked the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency to investigate the crash.

"Our thoughts and heartfelt prayers go out to the victim's family," Johnson said. "No one should have to deal with what they are going through right now."

Contact Montgomery Advertiser reporter Marty Roney at mroney@gannett.com.