A man was killed late Wednesday afternoon after a struggle with at least one deputy from the Greenville County Sheriff's Office who was trying to serve an arrest warrant, Sheriff Hobart Lewis said.

The shooting occurred just after 5 p.m., as deputies working on a U.S. Marshals Service task force responded to a duplex on Montague Road to find a person who had at least one active warrant, according to Lt. Ryan Flood with the Sheriff's Office.

Earl Fitzgerald Hunter, 40, of Laurens, died at the scene and an autopsy will be performed Thursday, according to Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans.

Hunter was previously wanted by the Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office in connection to a shooting that occurred in December. Deputies say Hunter attempted to kill his ex-girlfriend.

Related:Roebuck man wanted in connection to December shooting in Spartanburg County

The duplex is near Berea Middle School and not far from Furman University in what residents described as a normally peaceful neighborhood.

David Jones, who lives near where the shooting occurred, said neighbors were told to evacuate. He said what happened Wednesday was unusual.

"I’ve lived here all of my life," he said. "It’s out of the ordinary. It’s a quiet neighborhood."

In a news conference that was shown on social media, Lewis said Hunter hid and fought before he died.

While officers attempted to arrest Hunter, he presented a gun, according to a media release from the Greenville County Coroner's Office.

"After observing the suspect inside the duplex, an officer-involved shooting occurred," Flood said in a prepared, emailed statement. "The suspect, who was armed, was struck and pronounced deceased on scene."

No deputies were injured, he said.

The State Law Enforcement Division, South Carolina's top law enforcement agency, is investigating the shooting at the request of the Sheriff's Office.

SLED spokesman Tommy Crosby said his agency had been called to investigate the shooting. SLED is commonly called in to investigate shootings that involve South Carolina police officers or deputies.

The deputy or deputies involved in the shooting will be placed on paid administrative leave during the investigation, Flood said. Along with SLED, the Office of Professional Standards within the Sheriff's Office will also investigate the shooting, Flood said.

A critical incident community briefing video, which will give more information about what happened, will be made public by the Sheriff's Office on Aug. 7, Flood said.

Jatoni Foster, another neighbor, said he was shocked by what happened.

“This is a clean, quiet area — kids always walk to school here," Foster said. "With this happening it’s like, 'Wow.'"

Wednesday's shooting is the third so far this year to involve the Greenville County Sheriff's Office, and the 21st shooting involving a law enforcement officer in South Carolina so far this year, according to statements from SLED.

Lethal Force:Greenville County Sheriff's Office leads SC in shootings by law enforcement

Check back for more on this developing story.