IRON RIVER, Mich. (WLUC) - UPDATE: Tuesday, June 29: The Iron County Prosecutor has released more information on the investigation into last week’s officer-involved shooting.

Iron County Prosecuting Attorney Chad DeRouin, says a Iron County Sheriff’s Office (ICSO) deputy and an Iron River Police Department (IRPD) officer were sent for a well-being check in the city of Iron River at 4:10 p.m. Thursday, June 24.

While on the scene, officers ended up firing shots. This caused the death of one person inside the home.

The Michigan State Police were called in to investigate, and that investigation is ongoing.

“...I will not be releasing any further information at this time, to protect the integrity of the investigation,” DeRouin said. “I understand the public’s interest and need for transparency; once I have the full investigation and have had time to thoroughly review everything further details will follow.”

No other information was released.

TV6 & FOX UP will continue to follow-up on this incident.

UPDATE: Monday, June 28: Information is expected to be released later this week about a deadly police shooting in Iron County.

The Iron County prosecutor is reviewing what happened Thursday at an Iron River home. The Michigan State Police say the Iron River Police Department and Iron County Sheriff’s Office requested a team from the MSP Iron Mountain Post to investigate a police officer involved shooting.

Police say a suspect was pronounced dead at the home. No information about the person killed, the officer involved or the location have been released so far.

TV6 & FOX UP will continue to request information about the shooting.

ORIGINAL STORY: A suspect is dead after being shot by a police officer in Iron River.

An investigation is underway by the Michigan State Police Iron Mountain Post. Very few details are being released at this time.

The shooting happened at a residence in Iron River. The suspect was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Iron River Police Department and the Iron County’s Sheriff’s Department requested the state police investigate the shooting.

TV6 will continue to follow this story and bring you more information as it is available.

Copyright 2021 WLUC. All rights reserved.