BAYARD -- Two Morrill County Sheriff’s deputies with an anti-drug task force serving a search warrant at a home in Bayard Tuesday shot and killed a 58-year-old Bayard man, according to authorities.

Morrill County Sheriff Milo Cardenas said Tuesday that two deputies with the Western Nebraska Intelligence Group fired their guns when the resident and subject of the warrant became combative.

The resident was identified as Larry Hunt, according to a release from the Nebraska State Patrol on Wednesday.

Officers provided immediate medical aid to Hunt, who died Tuesday afternoon at Regional West Hospital in Scottsbluff, the patrol said.

At the request of the Morrill County Attorney’s Office and the Morrill County Sheriff’s Office, the State Patrol will investigate the shooting.

Patrol Capt. Kurt Von Minden said a special team of investigators from across the state has been assigned, as occurred recently when law enforcement officers shot and killed a man in Scottsbluff.

A grand jury will examine the actions of officers because Hunt died while being apprehended or in custody. Grand jury proceedings are not public, but the grand jury’s report will be available later for public review.

Cardenas and Von Minden declined to release much detail regarding the events that transpired before the shooting.

“I think it would be preliminary at this point to comment on that,” Von Minden said Tuesday. “It’s still a very fluid situation, and we wouldn’t want to comment without being completely accurate on what went on. We want to make sure that when we do comment, we have all the facts in front of us.”

Von Minden said the warrant was related to narcotics.

The two deputies involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave, pending the investigation. Cardenas declined to identify the deputies, but said one suffered minor injuries.

The Morrill County Sheriff’s Department has eight deputies, Cardenas said, and even under normal circumstances, other agencies help cover law enforcement duties in Morrill County.