FORT WAYNE, Ind. (WANE) – The three man who died after a man drove away from police, lost control of his vehicle, and crashed near the intersection of E. Paulding Road and Lafayette Street early Thursday have been identified.

The Allen County Coroner’s Office has identified the victims via fingerprints and notified the next of kin for the following men:

Sor No Bit, 25, of Fort Wayne. The coroner said his cause of death is multiple blunt force injuries due to motor vehicle crash, and the manner of death is an accident.

Sai Po Lar, 28, of Fort Wayne. The coroner said his cause of death is multiple blunt force injuries due to motor vehicle crash, and the manner of death is an accident.

Ah Tone, 28, of Fort Wayne. The coroner said his cause of death is multiple blunt force injuries due to motor vehicle crash, and the manner of death is an accident.

The incident started around 12:20 a.m. when Fort Wayne Police were called to the 2500 block of Hoevelwood Road for a report of a disturbance involving a reported intoxicated man. When officers arrived at the scene, they attempted to make contact with the man sitting in the driver’s seat of a vehicle.

Police said the driver refused to stop and drove away in his car. He reportedly then started to travel at a high rate of speed westbound on Paulding Road, continuing to elude officers.

Officers lost sight of the vehicle, but a few moments later found the vehicle had crashed in the 200 block of East Paulding Road.

HAPPENING NOW | 3 people are dead after crashing near Bishop Luers HS. The car sped down E. Paulding Road when it struck a tree, light pole and gas line.



Residents near the area had to evacuate as crews contain the gas leak.



I’ll be live on @wane15 with updates. pic.twitter.com/taq2sqb2uI — Josh Ayen – WANE 15 (@Josh_Ayen) July 1, 2021

Police said three people inside the vehicle were pronounced dead at the scene. It appeared the driver had left the roadway, struck a light pole, a tree, a house and gas line.

Several residents in the 200 block of East Paulding had to be evacuated from their homes due to the gas line being struck. Part of Paulding Road was closed for several hours while the FWPD’s Fatal Crash Team conducted their investigation but reopened around 5:15 a.m.