Police said gunfire continued and several bullets hit neighboring homes and cars.

Weaver police said a standoff with officers Saturday night ended in the suspect's death by his own hand.Police Chief Wayne Bush issued a news release Sunday stating that a 911 call around 6:38 p.m. about a domestic dispute at a home in the 400 block of Bailey Road. The caller reported being threatened with a firearm.Two Weaver officers responded to the home and one of them saw and spoke to a man who was armed with a shouldered firearm at the carport door, who began firing at the officer on the carport.Both officers exchanged gunfire with the man and one of the officers became pinned down behind a patrol vehicle. At that point, officers called for assistance from other agencies. Special Response Teams from the Anniston and Oxford police departments, and the Calhoun County Sheriff's Office responded.Chief Bush said that during the standoff, the man told police he did not intend to come out alive.Police said gunfire continued and several bullets hit neighboring homes and cars, but no one was injured.Tactical teams were able to get inside the home where they found 53-year-old Ricardo E. Caraballosa who had died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. No one else was in the house with him. The Cherokee County Sheriff's Office is investigating the case.

Weaver police said a standoff with officers Saturday night ended in the suspect's death by his own hand.

Police Chief Wayne Bush issued a news release Sunday stating that a 911 call around 6:38 p.m. about a domestic dispute at a home in the 400 block of Bailey Road. The caller reported being threatened with a firearm.

Advertisement

Two Weaver officers responded to the home and one of them saw and spoke to a man who was armed with a shouldered firearm at the carport door, who began firing at the officer on the carport.

Both officers exchanged gunfire with the man and one of the officers became pinned down behind a patrol vehicle.

At that point, officers called for assistance from other agencies. Special Response Teams from the Anniston and Oxford police departments, and the Calhoun County Sheriff's Office responded.

Chief Bush said that during the standoff, the man told police he did not intend to come out alive.

Police said gunfire continued and several bullets hit neighboring homes and cars, but no one was injured.

Tactical teams were able to get inside the home where they found 53-year-old Ricardo E. Caraballosa who had died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. No one else was in the house with him.

The Cherokee County Sheriff's Office is investigating the case.