DUQUESNE, Mo. — Just before 9:00 a.m. Saturday morning reports of a crash at E.7th and S. Duquesne Road.

Duenweg Fire Dept, Jasper County Sheriff’s Deputies responded. Missouri State Highway Patrol were notified. Joplin Fire Department responded as mutual aid.

MSHP Trooper B.D. Vaught has released the initial crash report.

Two people were transported Priority One to area hospitals, one has now died.

Sgt. B. Helms of the Missouri State Highway Patrol told us at the scene, three vehicles were involved. A 2008 Lexus was traveling east, striking a northbound white 2010 Toyota Prius. A Dodge Caravan 1999 minivan was also struck, showing minor damage.

The driver of the Lexus, Kenton Cowgill, 36, of Carthage was arrested by Joplin Police at the scene. Charges will be submitted to the prosecutor (see information below).

Robert McDermid, 66, was driving the 2010 Toyota Prius. He was pronounced at the hospital a short time later.

The third driver, Stanley Ball, 71, was not injured and was driving a 1999 Dodge Caravan minivan. He was sitting still pointed westbound when struck.

JOPLIN POLICE WERE INVESTIGATING DWI DRIVER

Capt Trevor Duncan of the Joplin Police Dept. updates us that at 8:23 a.m. Joplin Police received a call in the 800 block of Rex that a male in a vehicle was passed out, partially blocking a driveway. An officer responded and contacted the male who appeared to be impaired. As a backup officer arrived. The suspect fled in his vehicle northbound on Rex Ave, turning eastbound on East 7th.

“There was a Duquesne officer nearby who saw the suspect vehicle fleeing. Aware by radio of what was going on, the Duquesne officer initiated a pursuit eastbound on 7th with our officers joining in.”

When the suspect vehicle approached 7th and Duquesne at about 8:49 a.m. the suspect vehicle struck another victim vehicle resulting in a serious crash.

The suspect, 36-year-old male, Kenton Cowgill, of Carthage, exited the suspect vehicle and was taken into custody.

The driver of the victim vehicle, Robert McDermid, 66-years-old, white Toyota Prius, traveling northbound was transported Priority One to an area hospital and at 9:38 a.m. was declared deceased.

The investigation is ongoing. The suspect, Cowgill, has been arrested. Charges, unknown to the public, are being submitted to the prosecutor.

We will update this article here on our news tab at FSHP as more information becomes available.

Felony DWI tops list; Carthage man charged with multiple felonies after fatal crash that killed Joplin man; Cowgill was fleeing police CHARGES FILED, COWGILL TRANSPORTED FROM FREEMAN WEST TO JASPER COUNTY JAIL.

FOLLOW OUR SOCIALS, SEE NEWS AS YOU SURF