CHICAGO (WLS) -- Chicago police fatally shot a man wanted on two warrants in the West Garfield Park neighborhood Friday morning, Chicago Police Superintendent David Brown said.

Klevontaye White, 34, has been identified as the man who was killed, according to police.

Cellphone video captures the moment three Chicago cops and a federal marshal opened fire while serving the arrest warrant on the city's West Side.

The shooting took place about 9:40 a.m. in the 100-block of South Kilpatrick Avenue.

Brown said a group of law enforcement officials that included Chicago police officers, U.S. marshals on a fugitive task force and Cook County Sheriff's deputies had identified a 33-year-old man wanted on two warrants in a car in the area.

He had escaped electronic monitoring and had a December 2020 warrant for his arrest, Brown said.

He wouldn't get out of the vehicle and pulled out a gun, pointing it at the officers, according to CPD.

"The offender produced a firearm and pointed it at officers. According to preliminary reports, three CPD officers and one U.S. marshall discharged their weapons striking the offender,' Brown said.

He was taken to Mount Sinai Hospital in grave condition, where he later died. It was not immediately clear if the man fired shots at the officers.

RELATED: Chicago man charged in shooting of 2 ATF agents, CPD officer in Morgan Park

Three CPD officers and one marshal were taken to a hospital for observation, but none were shot.

Investigators said the suspect was wanted on 15 counts of aggravated sexual assault with a firearm, as well as the electronic monitoring violation after cutting the device off his ankle.

WATCH: Man gravely hurt in CPD shooting: supt.

Brown also said that the incident proves the validity of his criticism of the Cook County court system's monitoring process and bail system.

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability said the three CPD officers' body camera were active, meaning they were on, at the time of the fatal shooting.

"COPA can confirm, as a part of its commitment to transparency, that Chicago Police Department Officers activated body worn cameras during the incident. Video and other materials will be released in accordance with the City of Chicago's Video Release Policy within 60-days and posted to our website," COPA said.

"We are advocates and unapologetically advocates for the one victim. The one victim, who is at the hands of someone on electronic monitoring, is either killed or violently assaulted, means you ought to take a second look at this program," the superintendent said.

RELATED: Chicago police superintendent points finger at courts amid violence surge

"We don't know the background of this case -- because the name of the person who was shot hasn't been released yet. However, we have responded regarding Supt. Brown's comments on electronic monitoring in the past, most recently on Tuesday," a spokesperson for Chief Judge Tim Evans said Friday regarding Supt. Brown's comments.

A neighbor who did not want to provide her name said she heard gunfire and was told a person was shooting at police, who returned fire.

Other neighbors also heard the commotion and said they found a man wounded on the ground.

"I heard police coming; I came down here to see what happened, you know, I see one of the guys laying down on the ground down there," a neighbor said. "They say he was in a gray car; I'm don't know for sure because I didn't see the car, but I know he was shot."

There was still a large police presence in the area later Friday.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Civilian Office of Police Accountability, who is investigating the incident, at 312-746-3609.