SAVANNAH, Ga. (WSAV) — The Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) has released new information on a deadly officer-involved shooting Saturday night in Savannah.

The incident occurred around 9:30 p.m. on E. Bolton Street near Waters Avenue. According to the Savannah Police Department, officers pulled a car over after the driver drove through a stop sign.

As officers and the driver were talking outside of the car, the passenger, Maurice Mincey, remained inside, according to the GBI.

The agency on Wednesday said bodycam footage shows Mincey, 36, remove a gun from his waistband and place it in between his legs. SPD Officer Thomas Love was standing on the driver’s side of the car and asked Mincey to put his hands in the air but he refused.

The GBI said Mincey got out of the car, grabbed the gun and was moving toward another officer on the passenger side of the car. Initially, GBI said the man pointed a gun at officers before being shot.

He was then shot dead by officers. Police said the officers were not injured and called in the GBI to investigate the shooting. The investigation is ongoing.

Mayor Van Johnson tweeted that he was praying for everyone involved. In a follow-up tweet Sunday morning, Johnson said police body cameras were on during the incident.

ALERT – @SavPolice officer-involved shooting in the 1100 block of Bolton Street, just east of Waters Avenue. Per protocol, @GBI_GA called in to take over and investigate the case from this point. Prayers for all involved. — Mayor Van Johnson (@MayorJohnsonSAV) July 18, 2021

Alderman Detric Leggett said Mincey was a “young man who was beloved in the community,” and that “emotions are very high” at the scene. The shooting occurred in Leggett’s district. Leggett was live on Facebook at the scene around 10:30 p.m.

Leggett said while on the scene he was told at the time, by witnesses, that they believed Mincey was unarmed.

“Before I can put some ill-advised statements out there, I’m looking forward to seeing some bodycam footage so that I can come back to the community and give good information, and make sure that the individuals, such as the people who live in our community, people who were out last night, people who had high emotions last night [get the correct information] and there was a lot of misinformation given out last night,” Leggett said.

Leggett, Alderwoman Linda Wilder-Bryan and Alderman Nick Palumbo held a press conference Sunday afternoon asking for transparency in the investigation and for the Savannah community to come together instead of fighting.

“As the information comes down to myself, the mayor, other city council members, and as it comes from GBI, we have to make sure that we give information out in real-time, because people are stressed and people are asking for some type of leadership and guidance,” added Leggett.

“We’ve got to do something about crime, we have to offer solutions,” Wilder-Bryan said. “We’ve got to fix us,” Wilder-Bryan added, who herself lost a son to gun violence in 2015.

Locals in the community are left searching for answers and want law enforcement to understand their side.

“With everything that’s been going on in the media, people are scared of just a police presence. And then, it’ll take them away from the things they should’ve done like not running, not fleeing, but when they’re scared, somebody has to build trust in them to not be scared,” said Jermaine Milton, who lives close to where the shooting took place.

You can watch the full press conference below.