Phoenix police shot and killed a man at an apartment complex near Roosevelt and 30th streets on Tuesday night.

Phoenix police responded to reports of a domestic violence incident at around 7:12 p.m. at an apartment complex, according to police spokesperson Sgt. Mercedes Fortune.

The caller reported that her husband struck her and was armed with a knife, Fortune said.

When officers arrived on scene, they made contact with the female caller who was upset and crying, Fortune said.

The woman told police her five children were still in the apartment with her husband, who was armed with a knife, Fortune said.

Police identified the man as 31-year-old Miguel F. Hernandez-Rodriguez.

Police said Hernandez-Rodriguez abruptly walked out of the front door armed with a knife as an officer walked toward the apartment.

Hernandez-Rodriguez continued toward officers while holding a knife; he was then shot by an officer, Fortune said.

Hernandez-Rodriguez was pronounced dead on scene by Phoenix Fire personnel after officers provided first aid.

The woman sustained minor injuries. No other injuries were reported.

Police did not release any more information about the identities of those involved.

Law enforcement in Arizona have shot at least 44 people so far this year. Among those, Phoenix police have shot 12 people so far this year, killing five, according to an analysis by The Arizona Republic.

The Arizona Republic's yearly analysis identified 74 police shootings across the state in 2020, including 26 by Phoenix police. These numbers represent increases from 2019, which saw 56 statewide and 15 in Phoenix.

The number of shootings is roughly the same as the statewide average for the 10-year period measured by The Republic. The number still trails 2018, when Arizona police shot people in 118 different incidents, the most the state had seen in a single year since at least 2011. That year, Phoenix police shot 47 people and had the highest rate of any municipal police department in the country.

Reach breaking news editor Kaila White at kaila.white@arizonarepublic.com or on Twitter @kailawhite.

Support local journalism. Subscribe to azcentral.com today.