CAIRO, Ga. (WALB) - A man is dead following a deputy-involved shooting in Grady County Monday night, according to Grady County Sheriff Harry Young, who said two deputies were on Pierce Chapel Road attempting to arrest a man.

On Wednesday, the man involved was identified as Jason Lee Fralick, 43, of St. Petersburg, Fla., according to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI).

The GBI released details of what led up to the shooting on Tuesday.

On July 19, around 8:22 p.m., the GBI was requested by the Grady County Sheriff’s Office to conduct an investigation into an officer-involved shooting.

The GBI said preliminary information found that deputies responded to an address in the 3000 block of Pine Park Road in Grady County.

Upon arrival, deputies encountered a man that the homeowner wanted to leave his property. The deputies attempted to get the man to leave, but he would not, according to the GBI. Deputies then attempted to arrest the man and the GBI said he resisted arrest. Deputies were able to get one handcuff on the man, but he got away. The deputies then attempted to use pepper spray and tasers on the man, but all were ineffective, according to the GBI.

GBI agents are investigating the shooting

The man then got into a Grady County patrol car and attempted to drive away. The man first reversed the car while two deputies were standing near the open driver’s side door.

The GBI said deputies fired their weapons at the man and then attempted to arrest the man, who continued resisting. The man tried to drive forward out of the yard and additional deputies fired their weapons at him.

He was able to drive away and a short chase ensued before it ended. Paramedics responded to the scene, and the man was pronounced dead. An autopsy will be performed at the GBI Crime Lab.

The GBI said it will conduct an independent investigation. It will be turned over to the South Georgia District Attorney’s Office for review following the investigation.

The agency said this marks the 55th officer-involved shooting the GBI has been requested to investigate in 2021. Nine of those happened in Southwest Georgia this year.

Copyright 2021 WALB. All rights reserved.