EAST CLEVELAND, Ohio -- A 46-year-old Cleveland motorcyclist died Thursday night during a pursuit with East Cleveland police when he crashed into a Cadillac, State Highway Patrol Sgt. Ray Santiago said.

Darrick Roosevelt Charley Lee died in the pursuit and crash that ended about 10:30 p.m. at the intersection of Hayden and Alder avenues, Santiago said.

A 41-year-old Parma Heights woman, who was driving the Cadillac, went to University Hospitals for treatment of minor injures.

The Highway Patrol’s Cleveland Dispatch Center received a call from East Cleveland police about a deadly crash at the intersection.

Santiago confirmed that East Cleveland police chased Lee before the crash.

Troopers got to the scene and learned a 2004 Kawasaki motorcycle, driven by Lee, was northbound on Hayden Avenue. A 2017 Cadillac CT6, driven by the Parma Heights woman, also was headed northbound on Hayden Avenue when Lee struck the Cadillac from behind, Santiago said.

The impact threw Lee from his motorcycle. He was wearing a helmet at the time of the crash, according to police reports.

Paramedics took Lee to University Hospital where he was pronounced dead, Santiago said.

East Cleveland police Chief Scott Gardner said in an email Friday that his officers began to pursue Lee because he was driving recklessly.

“There was a vehicle traveling northbound, as well as a motorcycle,” he said in an email. “The motorcycle attempted to overtake the vehicle, but the vehicle made a left hand turn into a store. The motorcycle T-Boned the vehicle.”

Gardner did not identify the officers who were involved in the chase.

The crash is under investigation and investigators say speed is believed to be a factor in the crash.

Lee is the second person this year to die in a pursuit involving East Cleveland police. Vincent Belmonte, 18, of Cleveland was killed by East Cleveland police Sgt. Larry McDonald in a pursuit with police on Jan. 5.

Read more crime stories on cleveland.com:

Semi hit by gunfire in Akron road rage incident

Berea man faces attempted murder charge in Parma shooting

Son of Cleveland Councilman Kenneth Johnson testifies against father in corruption trial

Federal prosecutors unveil emails and texts involving House Bill 6, but offer few clues to the identities of those involved

Lyndhurst man shot to death in Cleveland’s Glenville neighborhood