UPDATE: We have more details in the case of a teen and his uncle who died today.

The uncle, a 35-year-old man who has not been identified, died in a Crowley apartment Sunday afternoon after a stand-off with police. His nephew, a 16-year-old youth, died in Jennings last night. An Acadia Parish Sheriff's deputy, who allegedly was shot by the uncle, is listed in stable condition at an area hospital.

Everything started last night when the uncle and nephew left Crowley, both allegedly armed with guns, and allegedly headed to Jennings to rob someone, police say. Jennings detectives developed information that they had done so, but did not know who the intended target was, says Jennings Chief Danny Semmes.

Late last night, the teen was shot by a resident in Jennings, Semmes said. The resident called police, and when they arrived they found the youth dead in the yard. The homeowner, Stephen Lazard, told police about the attempted robbery. When they examined his weapon, they found it had been reported stolen, and so Lazard, 31, was booked with illegal possession of a stolen weapon.

At this time, Lazard has not been booked with any charges in connection with the death of the youth. Evidence regarding the shooting death of the teen will be turned over to the District Attorney's Office for handling, Semmes said.

As they worked the case, detectives found an outstanding warrant for the uncle, and asked Acadia deputies to pick him up on that warrant so they could question him about the Jennings incident, Semmes said.

When deputies went to the residence where the uncle was believed to be, he allegedly shot at them, and they shot back. A deputy was wounded, and deputies left he apartment, an Acadia Parish Sheriff's spokesman tells us.

Deputies then began trying to get in touch with the uncle, but weren't successful and eventually they went back into the apartment, where they found him dead, a sheriff's spokesman said.

The spokesman said it was a "tragic incident."

State Police confirm they've been called in to assist, because it was an officer-involved shooting.

