The Riverside Police Department identified the man who fell and fatally hit his head on a fire hydrant during a pursuit on Sunday, Aug. 1.

The man was identified as 34-year-old Isaac Anthony Delgado of Corona, said Officer Ryan Railsback on Tuesday evening, Aug. 3. A loaded short-barrel AR-15 style rifle was found in Delgado’s car after the chase, according to Railsback.

Delgado also had two no-bail warrants out for his arrest, with one being a previous felon in possession of a firearm offense as well as a parole violation, Railsback said.

On Sunday, just after 9 p.m., Riverside Police officers saw Delgado driving a silver Mercedes-Benz west on the 91 Freeway and attempted to pull him over at the Van Buren Boulevard exit for unspecified traffic violations, Railsback said. Delgado then got off the freeway and fled deputies at a high rate of speed, sometimes into oncoming traffic, Railsback said.

Delgado then began going down side streets until he was in the 9400 block of Garfield Street and apparently attempted to bail out of his car while it was still moving, Railsback said.

The pursuing officers were catching up to Delgado when he attempted to flee on foot and when they caught up to his car, they found it unoccupied, Railsback said. A witness informed the officers that Delgado was on the ground nearby, Railsback said.

Officers then saw that Delgado was unresponsive with no pulse and had a “significant” head injury, Railsback said. Paramedics responded and pronounced him dead at the scene.

Railsback said the fall resulting in Delgado’s death was accidental.

“We have no reason to believe he intentionally head dove into a fire hydrant,” Railsback said. “It was unfortunate what happened to him.”

Railsback said the witness told officers that Delgado slipped while getting out of his car and went head-first into a fire hydrant. His Mercedes continued moving forward and struck another car, Railsback said.

The case will be submitted to Riverside’s Community Police Review Commission, a citizen-led board that reviews the Police Department’s actions.