A Dolton man wanted for the murder of his girlfriend abducted another woman Friday from a near west suburban mall, stole her car, sexually assaulted her and then led authorities on a chase before he fatally shot himself in the head on the West Side, authorities said Saturday.

Late Friday night, a day after Tyrone Corbett apparently killed Amy Johnson in their home, an Illinois state trooper spotted the stolen car on the Stevenson Expressway near the Harlem Avenue exit.

Advertisement

The trooper had gotten information regarding an alleged carjacking and kidnapping, and noticed the car matched the description of the stolen vehicle. A chase ensued about 9 p.m., with Chicago police officers later joining the pursuit.

Police said Corbett later got on the Eisenhower Expressway and eventually drove into a West Side neighborhood, stopping the car in the 4800 block of West Haddon Avenue, in front of a relative or friend's house.

Advertisement

The woman he had abducted and assaulted was still in the car, police said.

Using his cell phone, Corbett called the house and asked the person he knew to step outside. He shot himself in the head about 10 p.m. while sitting in the driver's seat, police said.

No one else was injured, and police officers did not fire any shots, acting Dolton Police Chief Ron Burge said at a news conference Saturday morning.

Sean Howard, Dolton city spokesman, told reporters at the conference that "the angry monster and murderer of Amy" had taken his own life.

"We hope that the three children of Ms. Johnson can now begin the healing process," Howard said.

According to police, the violent chain of events began about 4 p.m. Thursday when Corbett fatally shot his 24-year-old girlfriend in front of her three children, ages 4, 2 and 1.

According to police and neighbors, the couple had been living together for about a year in a small two-story house in the 14800 block of Evers Street in the south suburb. Recently Johnson's father, whom neighbors described as an invalid, had moved in with them.

Corbett, 32, worked in the packing and receiving department of Stanrail Corp. in Gary, a neighbor said. He was not the father of any of Johnson's children, and police said he had a history of threatening her.

Advertisement

After the shooting, Corbett drove away in Johnson's 2002 Ford Expedition, which Burge said was registered to Johnson's mother. Meanwhile, Johnson's 4-year-old son dialed 911.

Twice the boy told the police dispatcher: "Tyrone killed Amy." When police arrived at the home, the boy led them to the bedroom where he and his siblings had witnessed their mother's murder.

Johnson was pronounced dead at Ingalls Hospital in Harvey at 4:28 p.m. Thursday. The children are staying with relatives.

Burge said police were unsure where Corbett spent the night Thursday. He said Corbett's distraught mother and other relatives were in frequent contact with him by cell phone and pleaded with him to turn himself in.

Burge said he left a message himself on Corbett's cell phone asking him to come in, but his call was never returned.

"He was aware it was only a matter of time before he was going to be captured," Burge said, flanked by his department's detectives.

Advertisement

On Friday morning, Chicago police found the Expedition parked near Jackson Boulevard and California Avenue on the West Side.

It is unclear how Corbett reached North Riverside Park Mall, where the abduction is alleged to have taken place Friday.

According to a statement from North Riverside police, a woman said she was abducted from the mall and driven in her car to a Willowbrook hotel, where she was sexually assaulted. The woman was able to use a two-way pager to contact her mother during the ordeal, authorities said. Her mother then alerted police.

The woman was treated at a hospital, police said Saturday.

Tom Castagnoli, general manager of North Riverside Park Mall, said the management has turned over surveillance videotapes to the police in hopes of providing more information.

"This is the first time anything like this has ever happened," he said. "It's a rarity."