Update, 10:30 a.m.: The standoff incident on Ellie Nat Drive is over after the suspect was found dead from an apparent suicide.

According to Gill, the incident started at 10:34 p.m. on Friday evening when officers responded to the location on Ellie Nat Drive in reference to a suspect attempting to cut another individual with a knife.

Upon arrival, officers found a victim who had been cut with a knife, and the suspect allegedly had entered the residence to possibly retrieve a firearm, Gill said.

After almost 12 hours of attempting to get the individual to come out of the residence, the suspect appeared to have taken their own life with a self-inflicted gunshot wound around 9:41 a.m. Saturday morning, according to Gill.

CPD’s Homicide Unit has started a death investigation and the scene is being processed by the Crime Scene Team.

CPD should have the surrounding roadways reopened soon, Gill said.

No officers were injured during the incident. This is still an active investigation, and no further information is available at this time, including the suspect’s name which is pending family notification.

Previously:

CLARKSVILLE, TN (CLARKSVILLE NOW) – A police perimeter was set up early Saturday morning around a residence on Ellie Nat Drive where a subject is barricaded, and nearby residents have been asked to stay in their homes.

The perimeter is set up around 681 Ellie Nat Drive as police are attempting to negotiate with an individual to come out of the home, according a news release from Lt. Charles Gill.

Ellie Nat Drive is in North Clarksville along the Tennessee-Kentucky border.

Gill said the situation is isolated to one residence, but sections of Ellie Nat Drive especially between, Stella Drive and Benjamin Drive will be closed until the situation can be resolved.

There was no further information immediately available.

This story will be updated.

If you or someone you know is at risk for suicide, contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. Calls are free, confidential and answered 24/7.