This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

UPDATE (Aug. 13, 2021)– Police said Friday that the woman critically injured in the shooting has died.

“We continue to be hopeful the 11-year-old victim will survive her injuries,” IMPD said in a statement.

INDIANAPOLIS — An Indianapolis police officer was shot while responding to a report of a domestic disturbance on the city’s northeast side Wednesday evening.

The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said the shooting happened in the 7500 block of Bayview Club Drive around 9:15 p.m. Wednesday. This is near the intersection of Shadeland Avenue and East 75th Street.

Police say they received a call from someone inside the apartment shortly before 9 p.m. When officers arrived, they tried to make contact with the residents but didn’t get any response. While one of the officers was checking the perimeter, the suspect shot at officers, hitting one in the leg.

The officers retreated, and the wounded officer’s partner applied a tourniquet to the officer’s injuries. The wounded officer was transported to a local hospital in a stable condition. He has since been released.

IMPD said officers located three additional people with apparent gunshot wounds at the scene. This includes an 11-year-old girl who was last listed in critical condition. A 41-year-old woman was also listed in critical condition.

The suspect — later identified as 32-year-old Donald Williams — was transported to the hospital with a gunshot wound to the head. He was pronounced dead at the hospital, and the Marion County Coroner’s Office determined the manner of death was suicide.

No officers fired any rounds in this incident.

Three other children were able to escape the apartment through a window at about the same time shots were fired, according to the police department. They are now with family.

Detectives believe a disturbance between the woman and Williams led to this incident. IMPD says Williams retrieved a gun and held the five people hostage.

IMPD does not believe there is any ongoing threat to the community.

Mayor Hogsett released a statement Wednesday night:

“I am grateful to hear that the officer injured in tonight’s incident is in stable condition. My thoughts are with the officer and their family, as well as all of the brave IMPD officers who routinely go into harm’s way to keep our community safe. We must do everything we can to stop the scourge of gun violence, deploying resources and uniting neighbors to halt this vicious cycle.” Mayor Joe Hogsett

Police are asking anyone with additional information to contact Detective Sergeant Michael Duke at the IMPD Homicide Office at 317-327-3475 or e-mail him at Michael.Duke@indy.gov. To remain anonymous, call Crime Stoppers at 317-262-TIPS.

AREA STATISTICS

The 7500 block of Bayview Club is located within the 3301.06 Census Tract. The personal crime index for the area is 464, representing someone living in this area is more than 3.5 as likely to be a victim of violent crime than the average American.

This area has seen 5 homicides so far this year, four of which were shootings.