Several Nashville police officers shot and killed an Alabama man reportedly armed with a knife Wednesday morning.

Metro Nashville Police Department spokesperson Don Aaron said an MNPD canine officer conducted a business check on the 5000 block of Charlotte Avenue around 5 a.m. when he noticed a car with an Alabama license plate parked outside a Cricket Wireless.

The officer approached the vehicle, noticed the man in the vehicle had a knife and called for backup at 5:05 a.m., Aaron said.

Other officers arrived at 5:06 a.m., and after an interaction the man left the vehicle and reportedly charged the officers with a knife, according to Aaron.

The officers then fired, striking the man at 5:07 a.m. Aaron said officers tried to help the victim, who was then taken to Vanderbilt Medical Center where he died.

Nashville police have shot seven people:Here's who they are and what happened.

The Cricket Wireless store is located next to the MNPD west police precinct.

Aaron said no officers were injured. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation identified the man as a 31-year-old Daniel Turney Crowley of Trussville, Alabama.

Body camera footage released by police details portions of the circumstances surrounding the fatal shooting including one officer repeatedly asking the man to put the knife down.

Footage goes onto to show the man get out of the SUV, charge officers with the knife and officers fire at least six shots at him.

Seventh time officers shot someone in 2021

So far this year, Metro Nashville Police Department officers have shot seven people, and five of them have died.

This is the second shooting this month, after police shot and killed a 22-year-old man after he opened fire at a Smile Direct Club facility in Antioch.

It's also the second time officers have shot a man who reportedly charged at them while armed with a knife.

On April 26, an MNPD officer initiated a traffic stop in the city's Bordeaux neighborhood. A 32-year-old Massachusetts man wanted on a homicide charge exited the passenger side of the vehicle and charged at the officer with a knife.

Body camera footage showed the officer yelling for the man to stop before the officer shot and killed him.

In all of the shootings this year, MNPD reported the people involved either shot an officer, fired shots at officers or pointed guns or other weapons at police.

MNPD releases body camera footage

Body-worn camera footage released by MNPD Wednesday evening shows three officers involved in the shooting.

The video shows canine officer Richard Clemmons, an eight-year veteran of the department, makes the initial approach to the vehicle. The man in the car is sitting in the front seat.

Clemmons can then be heard on the video repeatedly telling the man "put the knife down" and that he's trying "to check" on him.

Clemmons then calls for backup. Officers Colin Bleem, a five-year department veteran, and Jonathan Phipps, a three-year department veteran, arrive within minutes of Clemmons call.

Shortly after Bleem and Phipps arrive, the man exits the vehicle and runs towards the officers, with all three firing their weapons and striking the man.

CAPITOL RIOT:16 with Tennessee connections arrested in Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol riot investigation

TBI investigating the shooting

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation was on the scene Wednesday investigating the shooting.

The TBI investigates any death involving the use of force by an on-duty Metro Nashville police officer.

This is an ongoing story and will be updated when more information becomes available

Natalie Alund contributed to this report.

Have a news tip? Reach reporter Adam Friedman by email at afriedman@tennessean.com.