This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

ADAMS COUNTY, Colo. (KDVR) — An Adams County Sheriff’s deputy shot and killed an armed domestic violence and kidnapping suspect early Wednesday evening, according to the sheriff.

The shooting happened inside a tire and muffler shop near West 70th Avenue and Pecos Street just after 5 p.m., prompting a closure of the busy intersection.

Sheriff Rick Reigenborn said an undercover, multi-jurisdiction task force had been conducting surveillance “for several hours” on a person wanted in Lafayette, Aurora and Adams County.

“He has a fairly lengthy criminal history,” Reigenborn said.

Watch the full press conference in the FOX31 NOW player at the bottom of this story.

Heavy police presence in the area of 70th and Pecos. Officer Involved Shooting – avoid this area. Gathering info still. — Adams Sheriff's Page (@AdamsCoSheriff) August 11, 2021

They watched him from the area of West 70th Avenue and Pecos Street when around 5 p.m. they spotted him walking to a nearby car dealership, where he appeared to be trying to steal a car, Reigenborn said. The officers then confronted him and identified themselves, he said.

“The suspect immediately brandished a firearm” and “took off running” east into the back of a nearby tire shop, Reigenborg said. “Our officers, fearing for the safety of the folks inside there — the employees inside the tire store — confronted him. He pointed the firearm at them. We had one officer that was involved in a shooting, and it was a fatal shooting. The suspect is deceased on scene.”

The shooting happened inside the tire shop, where the sheriff said there were several witnesses.

“We treat that as an active shooter, and we try and make sure that everybody is safe and secure,” Reigenborn said.

The suspect’s name had not been released as of late Wednesday.

It’s unclear whether the suspect opened fire: “Don’t know that yet, too soon to tell,” Reigenborn said.

The Adams County shoot team will do the investigation in cooperation with the District Attorney’s Office, Reigenborn said. The sheriff said he was unsure if any of the officers were wearing body cameras.

Reigenborn said the suspect was wanted for domestic violence and kidnapping out of Lafayette. He also was wanted on counts of auto theft, he said.

Reigenborn said the victim in the suspect’s alleged crimes was a female with whom he may have had an intimate relationship. He said she was safe as of Wednesday morning.

Along with Adams County deputies, the task force also included officers from Denver, Aurora and Westminster, Reigenborn said. Only the one Adams County deputy opened fire.

There were no other injuries or suspects, the Sheriff’s Office said.