UPDATE (9/3): Police on Friday identified the officers who fired their weapons and released body camera footage of the incident.

The officers were identified as V. Swall, M. Broida and Senior Officer A. Garcia. They remain on modified duty while an administrative review continues.

Police tried to negotiate with the man for an hour, according to the department. They urged him to release his mother so they could make sure she was unharmed.

The man, whose name hasn’t been released, was armed with a knife and appeared to be under the influence, police said.

After hearing screams for help, officers forced entry and found the man on a chair with the woman. The video shows him repeatedly attempting to stab her.

The officers fired and the man died at the scene. The woman suffered multiple stab wounds.

UPDATE (11:52 a.m.): A man was shot and killed by officers in the shooting, according to BPD.

The department said at around 8:23 a.m., it received a call of a man screaming in the 200 block of Stephens Drive. When officers arrived, they were unable to find the man and began clearing the area. A short time later, officers came back after the department received reports of a man with a knife in a nearby apartment complex.

When they arrived, officers confirmed that the man was in possession of a knife and that he was having an argument with a woman in one of the apartments. Officers determined that the woman was in danger and forced entry into the apartment, at which time a shooting took place.

BPD said three officers were involved in the shooting. The suspect died from his injuries at the scene.

The woman had several stab wounds and was taken to a local hospital for treatment of non-life-threatening injuries, according to the department.

Several knives were recovered from the scene, BPD said.

BAKERSFIELD, Calif. (KGET) — Police say an officer-involved shooting happened Friday morning in central Bakersfield.

The incident occurred in the 200 block of Stephens Drive, south of Brundage Lane, police said. An investigation is ongoing.

No other details were immediately available.