A woman was killed in a shooting involving police in Saugus late Saturday afternoon, according to the Essex District Attorney's Office.Shortly after 4:30 p.m., three Saugus police officers responded to 3 Alfred Rd. for a request for assistance with a family member in distress.When they arrived at the home, the officers were confronted by a 38-year-old woman brandishing a knife when they went inside, according to authorities.The district attorney's office reports one of the Saugus police officers fired his department-issued gun three times, striking the woman. The officers immediately rendered aid and emergency medical services personnel, who were also at the scene due to the nature of the call, also provided aid.The woman, who has not been identified, was pronounced dead at the scene."I'm feeling sad. I'm feeling hurt. I'm shocked," said Marcella Gerardi, who is related to the woman killed in the shooting. "We were just here a couple weeks ago hanging out with her and all the kids.""It's shocking, extremely shocking. I've been here since 1994, and nothing's ever happened — nothing," said neighbor Annette Guarino. "I mean, this is a quiet neighborhood."The officers involved were uninjured but transported to an area hospital as a precaution. The officer who shot the woman has been placed on administrative leave per department policy. Members of the Essex District Attorney's Office, Essex County State Police Detective Unit and the Massachusetts State Police Crime Scene and Ballistics units are investigating the shooting.The DA's office will release its findings to the public once the investigation is completed.

A woman was killed in a shooting involving police in Saugus late Saturday afternoon, according to the Essex District Attorney's Office.

Shortly after 4:30 p.m., three Saugus police officers responded to 3 Alfred Rd. for a request for assistance with a family member in distress.

Advertisement

When they arrived at the home, the officers were confronted by a 38-year-old woman brandishing a knife when they went inside, according to authorities.

The district attorney's office reports one of the Saugus police officers fired his department-issued gun three times, striking the woman. The officers immediately rendered aid and emergency medical services personnel, who were also at the scene due to the nature of the call, also provided aid.

The woman, who has not been identified, was pronounced dead at the scene.

"I'm feeling sad. I'm feeling hurt. I'm shocked," said Marcella Gerardi, who is related to the woman killed in the shooting. "We were just here a couple weeks ago hanging out with her and all the kids."

"It's shocking, extremely shocking. I've been here since 1994, and nothing's ever happened — nothing," said neighbor Annette Guarino. "I mean, this is a quiet neighborhood."

The officers involved were uninjured but transported to an area hospital as a precaution. The officer who shot the woman has been placed on administrative leave per department policy.

Members of the Essex District Attorney's Office, Essex County State Police Detective Unit and the Massachusetts State Police Crime Scene and Ballistics units are investigating the shooting.

The DA's office will release its findings to the public once the investigation is completed.