SAN ANTONIO – UPDATE: The Bexar County Medical Examiner’s Office has identified a man shot and killed by a San Antonio police officer on Friday.

Steven Primm, 35, died following a chase with officers on the city’s East Side.

According to police, the chase started when Primm threatened a group of men with a gun in the 4500 block of Lakewood Drive.

SAPD Chief William McManus said when officers arrived Primm took off on his bike and later shot an officer twice.

McManus said shortly after, a second officer fatally shot Primm.

The shooting remains under investigation, police said.

---

(Original Story)

A police officer is hospitalized with gunshot wounds, and a 39-year-old man is dead after another officer shot him during a pursuit on the East Side, San Antonio Police Chief William McManus said.

Police say they received a call for a disturbance with a gun involving four males where one threatened another in the 4500 block of Lakewood Drive, just west of Loop 410 and north of Highway 87.

The first officer to arrive spotted the man with the gun, who then fled the scene on a bike after seeing the officer, McManus said.

The officer pursued the man as he rode away. A second officer responding to the call confronted the man in the 4900 block of Wycliff, SAPD said.

When the second officer encountered the man with the gun, the man shot the officer twice in the lower extremities, McManus said. The officer returned fire and may have struck the suspect, police said.

The first officer caught up to the man in a nearby parking lot and tried to cut him off. When they encountered each other in a nearby field, the officer shot the man, killing him, McManus said.

The officer who was shot is expected to be OK, and was taken to the Brooke Army Medical Center, according to SAPD. He has one year on the force. The other officer who responded to the call has been with the department for 19 years.

No other injuries were reported.

McManus said police are not looking for any other suspects.

The information given at the scene is preliminary, and San Antonio police are still combing through the scene and reviewing video. Some details may change pending further investigation.