A Barstow police officer fatally shot a man Sunday morning, police said.

In a statement released around 6:42 p.m. Sunday, the Barstow Police Department said that the officer had shot the man nearly eight hours earlier. It offered no identifying information on the man who died, or the officer involved.

According to the statement, “a reporting party” called the police around 10:59 a.m. Sunday to inform the department that “a male suspect associated with an ongoing stolen vehicle investigation was in the area of Candlelight Drive and Windy Pass.”

The statement did not say who the reporting party was, or their reason for reporting the man’s presence in the area, or how they knew he was a suspect regarding a stolen vehicle. Candlelight Drive and Windy Pass run parallel to each other south of Interstate 15 and Armory Road, not far from the Barstow DMV.

The statement offered few details on what happened once the officer arrived at the scene. It said that “the officer contacted the male," then says the man "fled on foot from the officer.”

“The officer gave chase and during the foot pursuit,” and at some point shot the man, the statement said. Police said a firearm was found on the man, but the statement did not say he threatened the officer.

Barstow Police Capt. Andrew Espinoza, who is also the department’s public information officer, declined a request Sunday night for further details.

BPD posted a photo with the announcement of the shooting on its Facebook page of multiple police and fire vehicles in the parking lot of an outlet center surrounded by yellow crime-scene tape. The outlet center, which includes a Metro by T-Mobile and an Eyebrow Hut, is located off Monterey Avenue just north of its intersection with Armory Road.

Police said paramedics from Barstow Fire Protection District were called to the scene. "Despite all rescue efforts paramedics pronounced the male deceased at the scene," police said.

Barstow police said they notified the San Bernardino County sheriff’s homicide detail about the shooting, as is department policy, and they responded to "conduct the investigation.

A deputy coroner from the sheriff's department also responded to assist homicide detectives, Barstow police said. It was unclear whether the officer involved was put on leave.

The coroner division in the last two months has reduced the amount of information it releases on "unnatural deaths" such as fatal shootings, calling its former approach to public announcements a “relic" of the coroner’s pre-2006 independence from the sheriff’s department.

Charlie McGee covers the city of Barstow and its surrounding communities for the Daily Press. He is also a Report for America corps member with the GroundTruth Project, an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit news organization dedicated to supporting the next generation of journalists in the U.S. and around the world. McGee may be reached at 760-955-5341 or cmcgee@gannett.com. Follow him on Twitter @bycharliemcgee.