LEXINGTON COUNTY, S.C. (WIS) - The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division are investigating an incident where a suspect was shot and killed after a police chase.

Officials say the chase started on Interstate 26 in Newberry County near the Laurens County line and ended in Lexington County.

Deputies with the Newberry County Sheriff’s Office say they got a call about an overturned vehicle on I-26 at mile marker 60 around 5:51 p.m., Sunday.

According to deputies, a Good Samaritan who stopped to help was then carjacked.

Officials say the suspect was spotted at mile marker 72 and a chase ensued.

Deputies say the suspect hit several cars on the interstate, including a deputy’s car, during the pursuit.

According to officials, the suspect then took an exit, turned around, and started driving back toward Newberry.

After the chase, deputies say the suspect got out of the car at mile marker 91 and charged at law enforcement.

Newberry County Sheriff Lee Foster says a deputy then shot and killed the suspect.

As of right now, there is no word on if the suspect had a weapon at the time of the shooting. Sheriff Foster says the suspect was armed at the time of the initial carjacking.

“This was an incredibly dangerous incident from start to finish,” according to Sheriff Lee Foster. “It was very obvious that he had no regard for human life and the law,” said Newberry County Sheriff Lee Foster. “Had they not stopped him, he was destined to harm someone more seriously than he did.”

South Carolina Law Enforcement Division and the Lexington County Coroner are investigating.

No deputies were reportedly hurt during the incident. The deputy who shot the suspect has been placed on administrative leave.

It's unclear how many shots the deputy fired and it's unclear whether the suspect was armed at the time of the shooting.



Sheriff Foster says the suspect was armed at the time of the carjacking.



We're working to get Sheriff Foster on live on @wis10 at 11. #sctweets — Sam Bleiweis (@SamWISTV) August 16, 2021

The incident in Lexington County was the 26th officer involved shooting in South Carolina in 2021. In 2020, there were 49 officer-involved shootings in South Carolina; one involved the Newberry County Sheriff’s Office.

Copyright 2021 WIS. All rights reserved.

Notice a spelling or grammar error in this article? Click or tap here to report it. Please include the article’s headline.