This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

MEMPHIS, Tenn. — A man is dead and a Shelby County deputy injured after an officer-involved shooting at a Memphis apartment complex on Monday.

Antonio Jackson

Law enforcement responded to the 3700 block of Robin Park Circle in the Robinhood Park Apartment complex around 12 p.m.

According to the Shelby County Sheriff’s Office, a suspect attempted to run over an officer, and the deputy fired at the driver. State investigators said that as officers approached the vehicle, the driver accelerated toward the officer and struck him.

The deputy fired, striking driver Antonio Jackson, 26, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said.

Jackson was taken to Regional One Hospital, where he later died from his injuries.

The deputy was taken to Methodist Germantown and was stable, officials said. TBI said his injuries were not life-threatening. He was not identified.

The sheriff’s office said they were working a case in the area involving the Multi Agency Gang Unit, but would not release any more details.

“For them to do my brother like that. Fool, he don’t [expletive] with nobody. Real talk. He don’t [expletive] with nobody,” said Nisha Jackson who identified herself as the suspect’s sister.

“He take care of his kids, he take car of his family and he gone,” Jackson said adding that her brother was expecting a baby at the time of his death.

Records show Jackson was on parole at the time of the shooting for illegally possessing a weapon as a convicted felon. He had previously been convicted of aggravated burglary.

A handful of protesters arrived at the crime scene Monday afternoon and law enforcement erected barricades in response.

“I’m angry, I’m disgusted, I’m tired of seeing this [expletive], man,” one protester said.

As Jackson’s family gathered on the steps of Regional Medical Center and on the sidewalk outside, a gunshot sounded around 4:30 p.m., causing people to scatter. It’s unclear who fired the shot and no one was hit.

TBI is investigating the incident as an officer-involved shooting. Anyone with information or evidence that could help with this investigation is asked to contact the TBI at 1-800-TBI-FIND or email TipsToTBI@tn.gov.

TBI said there have been 37 officer-involved shooting in the state this year. One other case was in Memphis on April 21, when police say Rhonda Rawls pointed a gun out of a car window and fired on an officer during a traffic stop on Summer Avenue.