Man killed in officer-involved shooting near 27th and Wright in Milwaukee

MILWAUKEE (CBS 58) -- A 42-year-old man is dead after three Milwaukee police officers shot him Monday afternoon, Aug. 16, near 27th and Wright. Police say the man shot first.

A look at the heavy police response. pic.twitter.com/aWjydjjkHW — CBS 58 News (@CBS58) August 16, 2021

A CBS 58 viewer captured video of several Milwaukee police squads responding to the scene.

To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

AT THE SCENE: Fatal shooting investigation underway near 27th and Wright. pic.twitter.com/xo6UZ3AZ4C — CBS 58 News (@CBS58) August 16, 2021

Emotions ran high Monday evening as police briefed the media on the latest shooting. A crowd of a few dozen people interrupted and then shut down the press conference.

Among them was Ella Jones, who says she's the victim's sister. Jones says, "That ain't him. I don't believe that. They're going to have to show me something for me to believe that my brother went and did something like that, like shooting at the police."

Jones says her brother is the man police shot and killed Monday afternoon near the corner of 27th and Wright.

Acting Police Chief Jeffrey Norman says officers were first called to the scene at 3:50 in the afternoon when someone reported a man pointing a gun at people. "Upon arrival officers encountered an armed individual, and gave him commands to drop his gun, and the individual discharged his firearm. Officers discharged their firearms, subsequently striking the individual."

Acting Chief Norman says officers took measures to save his life, but he later died. No one else was injured, and Acting Chief Norman says the man's gun was recovered.

But Ella Jones didn't believe it. "Baldy don't have no gun. Baldy don't have no gun. I don't believe that. Somebody had to give him a gun for him to do something like that."

Acting Chief Norman said police are still investigating if the suspect shot directly at people. He added there is body camera video of the incident, which should be released within 45 days. "The officers involved in this incident are three male officers, one with over four years of service, the others with over five years of service."

Norman tried to take more questions, but police ended the briefing as the gathered crowd shouted him down. The three officers involved are all on leave as per usual during these investigations.

Acting Chief Norman says the Wauwatosa Police Department will lead an independent investigation into the shooting.

PHOTO GALLERY













Contributions to this story also made by: CBS 58 Newsroom