A shootout in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, left two San Bernardino Police Department SWAT officers wounded and a suspect dead in an encounter related to the investigation of the shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the day before in the city of San Bernardino, police said.

San Bernardino Police and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino Police and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino Police and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino County Sheriff’s vehicle blocks Victoria Avenue and Base Line Street as law enforcement investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino County Sheriff’s department personnel investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

A San Bernardino County Sheriff’s deputy blocks Victoria Avenue in Highland as investigators work a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino Police and San Bernardino County Sheriff’s investigate a scene of an officer involved shooting in the 7300 block of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

San Bernardino Police and San Bernardino County Sheriff investigators walk towards the body (not scene) of a suspect along Rosemary Drive just west of Victoria Avenue in Highland on Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021. Two San Bernardino Police Department officers were wounded and another person dead in an encounter related to the investigation of a shooting that injured a sheriff’s deputy the yesterday in the city of San Bernardino, police said. Victoria Avenue is completely shutdown between 9th and Base Line Streets. (Photo by Will Lester, Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG)

Law enforcement personnel wait outside of Loma Linda University Medical Center, where two San Bernardino Police SWAT officers were shot Wednesday, Aug. 18. They were wounded while trying to apprehend a man suspected of an earlier shooting that sent a deputy to the hospital on Tuesday. The suspect was shot by police Wednesday and died at the scene. (Photo by LoudLabs News)

Police Chief Eric McBride speaks during a press conference outside Loma Linda Medical Center in Loma Linda on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Police Chief Eric McBride speaks during a press conference outside Loma Linda Medical Center in Loma Linda on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

San Bernardino County Sheriff, Shannon Dicus said three law enforcement officers have been shot in two days as San Bernardino Police Chief Eric McBride stands behind him during a press conference outside Loma Linda Medical Center in Loma Linda on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Residents watch as SBPD investigate an an officer involved shooting at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A deputy moves a barricade to close 11th Street as SBCSD and SBPD in the investigation an officer involved shooting at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

San Bernardino County probation officers gather before helping in the investigation after an officer involved shooting at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A resident talks with officers on Victoria Avenue and 11th Street as police investigate an officer involved shooting at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

Residents record sheriff deputies as SBPD investigate an an officer involved shooting at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG)

A San Bernardino County Sheriff CSI arrives to investigate the shooting scene at Victoria and Rosemary in Highland on Wednesday, August 18, 2021. (Photo by Terry Pierson, The Press-Enterprise/SCNG) Two SWAT officers were shot and a suspect in dead today.

Police investigating Tuesday’s shooting of the deputy were conducting surveillance and SWAT officers attempted Wednesday at 3:38 p.m. to make contact with the suspect, which led to an exchange of gunfire at Victoria Avenue and Rosemary Drive in Highland, police said. After the shooting, San Bernardino police asked people to stay away from the area of Baseline Street and Victoria as they conducted the investigation.

San Bernardino Police Sgt. Equino Thomas said the individual died at the scene. Officials later said the man, who police say was a gang member who lived in San Bernardino, was armed with a handgun on Wednesday.

The shooting Wednesday left two officers injured, Police Lt. Michele Mahan said.

Detailed information on their conditions was not immediately available, but Mahan said both were alert and expected to survive. They were being treated at Loma Linda University Medical Center, where late Wednesday one officer was in surgery and another was being treated for a gunshot wound.

Mahan said there were no outstanding suspects in the shooting of the deputy.

#Breaking Very large law enforcement presence at Loma Linda University Medical Center where two @SanBernardinoPD officers have been admitted with gunshot wounds following a deadly shootout. Both are “alert” in unknown condition at this time. pic.twitter.com/9Kygxl6035 — Chris Cristi (@abc7chriscristi) August 19, 2021

The suspect killed Wednesday was identified as Ervin Olikong, 34, San Bernardino, who police said had an extensive criminal history and ties to a San Bernardino gang.

A $200,000 warrant was out for his arrest for an assault with a deadly weapon incident in 2019, San Bernardino Police Chief Eric McBride said.

“Here we are in two days having three officers shot in the city of San Bernardino and our local area, so I think that’s something to be said. I think we’ve had some failures in our criminal justice system as far as keeping these people off the street that have manifested itself into assaults and death onto police officers,” McBride said.

McBride also alleged that Olikong approached the deputy’s patrol car on Tuesday after unloading his rounds for an unknown reason that he speculated as being ominous.

“I can’t address (the suspect’s) motives specifically, but this is clearly a violent individual we’re dealing with and he’s now attacked three law enforcement officers,” Mahan said.

The San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department was investigating Wednesday’s shooting in Highland, as that city is in the sheriff’s jurisdiction.