This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

THORNTON, Colo. (KDVR) — Update (Aug. 24): The man who died after being shot by police has been identified as 33-year-old Lucas Antonio Salas.

Original (Aug. 18): Northglenn and Thornton police officers shot and killed a homicide suspect Wednesday.

Police said the shooting happened at 136th Avenue and Washington Street at the Thorncreek Golf Course.

Washington St closed from 120th Ave to 136th Ave. 136th Ave closed from Grant St to Washington St due to crime scenes while officers investigate. UPDATE HERE. pic.twitter.com/V3lvmEB2j6 — Northglenn PD PIO (@NorthglennPDPIO) August 18, 2021

The Northglenn Police Department provided more details in a press release Wednesday afternoon.

According to the release, Northglenn officers were trying to contact the suspect — so far identified only as male — around 11:30 a.m. in the 300 block of Malley Drive. The suspect fled in a vehicle and traveled northbound on Washington Street before stopping on the side of the road at 136th Avenue at the golf course.

“The suspect produced a firearm and shots were exchanged. The suspect was struck by gunfire and was transported to a local area hospital where he was pronounced dead,” the release states.

FOX31’s Deborah Takahara spoke with witnesses to the incident, as it was a busy time at the course and dozens of golfers and residents saw the shooting.

“Leisure day … boom boom boom, 100 yards from us. We saw the whole thing go down,” Jeff Isenhart said who was in the middle of his golf game and said the whole thing unfolded right in front of him.

He said officers chased a man along the golf course and ended up near the driving range. “He’s walking along, five officers give him orders to get down, get down. He turned around, fired one shot at the officers, they fired back. Dropped him right there,” Isenhart said.

On a neighbor’s Ring doorbell, you can hear sirens, then a series of gunshots.

“Two police officers right off yelled at the golfers to get the hell out of here, they knew it was a volatile situation,” Kevin Green said.

Green was working from his home across the street when he heard sirens and came out to see the shooting.

“You could certainly see the police officers chasing after the guy, once he turned around, you could see he had a handgun and he at least pointed it at the officers,” Green said.

These witnesses say it was surreal, and all happened so fast.

“You’re watching the guy and all these police are coming on the scene and just a split second, he turned, fired. That was kind of wild day. Something to talk about at Christmas,” Isenhart said.

No officers were injured. The Adams County Critical Incident Response Team and the Adams County District Attorney’s office are investigating. All officers involved were placed on paid administrative leave.

The suspect’s identity will be released by the Adams County Coroner’s Office once next of kin are notified.

This is a breaking news story. Please check back for updates.