A suspect who was wanted in connection with a shooting in Bucks County was shot and killed after a police chase ended in Philadelphia on Wednesday afternoon.

The incident began when authorities in Bucks County were chasing a suspect wanted in connection with a shooting in Levittown.

PHILADELPHIA (WPVI) -- A suspect who was wanted in connection with a shooting in Bucks County, Pennsylvania was shot and killed after a police chase ended with a shootout in Philadelphia on Wednesday afternoon.

The incident began around 3 p.m. when authorities in Bucks County responded to a shooting at an apartment complex on the 2000 block of Veterans Highway in Levittown.

At the scene, officers found a victim who was shot in the face. The victim is listed in serious condition at an area hospital.

According to police, a chase then ensued with the shooting suspect who was identified by sources as 29-year-old Terrence Bey of Philadelphia.

Bey is accused of leading officers out of Bucks County and into Philadelphia and onto the busy Roosevelt Boulevard during rush hour.

The chase ended when a Middletown Township police sergeant utilized the Pit maneuver in the city's Crescentville neighborhood. Video obtained by Action News shows the final moments of a shootout that ended with the suspect shot and killed by police at a nearby gas station.

SEE ALSO: Suspect arrested after police chief shot during standoff in Yardley, Pennsylvania

"When he exited the vehicle, he began firing at the pursuing Bucks County police officers who were on foot," said Sgt. Eric Gripp with the Philadelphia Police Department.

Gripp says Philadelphia police began moving in on the suspect.

"While this individual is firing at the Bucks County police officers, our officers are closing in at him with their guns drawn, telling this male to drop the gun," said Gripp.

In the video, as the male suspect runs into the frame, it appears he raises his arms towards a police officer.

"He continues firing at those officers, turns to point the gun at Philadelphia police. One of our officers discharged at least one time, striking the male. A Bucks County officer discharged at least one time. The male was struck at least once in the head," said Gripp.

It's unclear which agency fired the fatal shot, but two officers, one from the Philadelphia Police Department and one from the Middletown Township Police Department, fired at Bey.

"Probably like 13 shots around there," recalled witness Jose Espada, describing the mayhem as officers tried to apprehend the man.

Terrence Bey

Chopper 6 was over the busy intersection of Whitaker and Adams avenues where officers could be seen scoured across the area after the shootout. The suspect's tan Volvo was wedged in between two police cruisers.

No officers or any other residents were injured in this incident.

"For this to have happened during rush hour. You know, where it happened, this busy area, there's people everywhere, fortunately. There are witnesses everywhere. We're just so grateful that no one else was hurt," Gripp said.

Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw echoed that sentiment in a statement released Thursday.

"This incident, which transpired across several jurisdictions, began with the shooting of a man in Bucks County, PA, and ended with the alleged shooter losing his life after engaging in a gun battle with police officers from multiple agencies. I am grateful that there were no additional injuries to civilians or police officers, and hope for a fast and full recovery to the victim of the initial shooting," she said. "I assure the public that the Officer Involved Shootings Investigations Unit will conduct a thorough investigation into this incident, and will subsequently present their findings to the District Attorney's Office."

It's still unclear if Bey knew the shooting victim in Levittown. Police are describing that shooting as a domestic-related incident.