Update (10:08 a.m. Saturday)

Officials with the Amarillo Police Department announced Saturday morning that the subject involved in Friday's officer-involved shooting has died.

According to a news release, the individual was identified as 34-year-old George Michael Mireles. Officials stated that Mireles had a "felony warrant for Dangerous Drugs, Texas Pardon and Parole, Caution Armed and Dangerous."

"The warrant has just recently been issued, and officers were not aware of it when they approached Mireles and he began shooting at them," the release stated.

For more information about the Amarillo Police Department, visit www.amapolice.org.

Update (3:37 p.m.)

Officials with the Amarillo Police Department have identified the individual arrested in Friday's incident at an apartment complex in the 1200 block of South Roberts Street.

According to a news release, 29-year-old Cayetano Vela Medrano was arrested for a felony warrant for "dangerous drugs, Texas Pardons and Parole, Caution-Armed and Dangerous."

"Medrano was known to stay in one of the apartments in the complex in the 1200 block of S. Roberts and was located inside an apartment there," the release stated. "He was taken into custody and booked into jail without incident."

The subject shot by officers during Friday morning's incident is still in an area hospital, officials with the department stated in the release. The individual has not yet been identified by police.

Update (12:53 p.m.)

In a news conference given at the site of Friday's officer involved shooting, which occurred in the 1200 block of South Roberts Street, Amarillo Police Chief Martin Birkenfeld released more details regarding the incident, which ended in one arrest and an individual being shot.

Birkenfeld said at about 9:35 a.m. Friday, officers were looking for a fugitive at the site. Officers were conducting surveillance at the site when they saw a male individual approaching the apartment

Officers were conducting surveillance at the site when they saw a male individual approaching the apartment who matched the description of the person they were looking for.

When officers approached, the man, not identified by Birkenfeld, was claimed to have fired gunshots at the officers. Three officers returned fire, striking the man, who was taken to a local hospital with life-threatening injuries.

Birkenfeld said officers later made the arrest of the initial fugitive they were looking for at the site in relation to a felony warrant. Because that person has not been booked into the jail, the department has not released that individual's identification information, or what the felony warrant was related to, as of this writing.

"We did make an arrest of the person we were originally looking for on the warrant … He has not been booked into jail yet, so we can’t release that person’s information yet," Birkenfeld said. "... It appears initially that the suspect that was shot, and who shot at the officers, was not the original person that we were looking for."

Officials with the department stated that Friday's incident continues to be an active investigation, and there could be additional arrests from this incident. The individual who was shot continues to be in critical condition at this time.

"This is a tragic incident, and it’s an example of the types of dangers our police officers face. It’s also evidence of the violent crime we are having in our community," Birkenfeld said. "We encourage people, any time you hear shots fired in the community, please call us. Any time you see violence occurring, please call us. We have a dedicated team of investigators and officers who are working on these situations to try and reduce violent crime in Amarillo, but as you can see, it’s a very real thing. It’s a tragedy that anybody was shot in this incident. Fortunately, the officers are okay, but we are going to continue doing our part to reduce violent crime in Amarillo."

Birkenfeld asked for any witnesses to the incident to call the Amarillo Crime Stoppers at (806) 374-4400. Individuals can also call the department at (806) 378-3038 and ask for a homicide investigator.

The Amarillo Globe-News will update this story once more information is released. For more information about the Amarillo Police Department, visit www.amapolice.org.

Original Story:

Officials with the Amarillo Police Department released information regarding an officer-involved shooting which occurred Friday.

According to a statement from the department, the officer involved shooting occurred in the 1200 block of S. Roberts St. No officers were reportedly injured in the incident and one suspect was taken to the hospital.

Officers stressed that the situation is "no danger to the public at this time."

This is an ongoing story and the Amarillo Globe-News will update this story as more information comes available.