Inman police were pursuing a Spartanburg woman who went the wrong way on Interstate 26 and crashed into another car, killing three Indiana women, according to documents from the SC Highway Patrol.

Melissa Ann Parker, 43, of Spartanburg, was driving a 2005 Hummer and was heading west in the eastbound lanes of I-26 on Aug. 16 when she hit a four-door Kia sedan with a driver and three passengers heading east, according to state Highway Patrol documents.

The crash occurred at the 14.5-mile marker about 5 miles north of Spartanburg.

Initial reports from law enforcement did not indicate whether the Inman officer pursued Parker.

Parker attempted to run away after crashing but officers apprehended her and took her to the hospital for injuries before taking her to the Spartanburg County jail the same day, said Cpl. Joe Hovis of the Highway Patrol.

An arrest report states the Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office used a dog to locate Parker on a road adjacent to I-26. She was "immobilized due to her injuries sustained from the collision," the report states.

The Spartanburg County Coroner's Office identified those killed as Elleana Lee Gaddis, 17, and her twin sister Isabella Lee Gaddis, 17, both of Riverside Way in Fishers, Indiana and a third person Brianna Lynn Foster, 18, of Wimbledon Way in Fishers, Indiana. A fourth person also was injured.

At the crash site, Highway Patrol troopers saw the Hummer on its roof and the Kia off the road with its roof missing. Two of the teens who were killed were found outside the vehicle, the third was in the back seat.

A Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office deputy on scene told troopers that an Inman Police Department officer had been chasing the Hummer prior to the Hummer continuing into the wrong lanes of traffic on I-26, the arrest report states.

The arrest report from the Highway Patrol did not say whether the Inman officer continued to pursue the Hummer along I-26.

Inman Police Chief Keith Tucker did not immediately respond to calls or emails seeking comment.

Beverly Jones, Parker's public defender, did not immediately respond to phone messages or emails seeking comment.

Highway Patrol responded to the crash around 2:12 a.m., on Aug. 16, according to the arrest report.

The incident began when Parker drove to a Circle K convenience store on Asheville Highway in Inman and got into the 2005 Hummer that was parked there. She got into the vehicle and started joyriding in the parking lot, according to 7th Circuit Solicitor Barry Barnette, who spoke during Parker's bond hearing at the Spartanburg County Detention Center.

Barnette said Parker attempted to hit an officer who had been eating at a Waffle House next to the convenience store before she drove down the wrong direction of I- 26, which was nearby the Waffle House and the Circle K.

The Herald-Journal has requested incident reports and dashcam footage from the Inman Police Department as well as a traffic collision report from the Highway Patrol.

Daniel J. Gross is an investigative watchdog reporter focusing on public safety and law enforcement. Reach him at dgross@greenvillenews.com or on Twitter @danieljgross.