A traffic stop turned deadly early Sunday, leaving a Milwaukee man dead and a Greenfield police officer in critical condition.

According to police, a Greenfield officer stopped a vehicle near South 35th Street and West Oklahoma Avenue at 1:36 a.m. near the city's border with Milwaukee.

The 31-year-old male driver — its lone occupant — stopped the car initially, then drove off. Officers followed in pursuit.

The chase ended when the man crashed near South 27th Street and West Becher Street, about 2 miles away in Milwaukee.

The man exited the vehicle and started shooting at officers, striking a 36-year-old officer multiple times.

Two other officers who were involved in the pursuit returned fire and killed the man.

Footage from WISN-TV shows the suspect crashed into another vehicle at the end of the pursuit. The station also obtained emergency radio broadcast audio that states the officer was shot in the chest.

The officer who was shot also made the initial traffic stop, according to Greenfield police. Investigators say they do not know why the officer first pulled over the man.

"It is unknown at this time. The officer who performed the stop is unconscious," Assistant Chief Ray Radakovich said in an email Sunday to the Journal Sentinel regarding the reason for the initial stop.

The officer would have radioed to dispatch that he was making a stop but would not have said why, Radakovich said.

It's also unclear why the officer pulled over the man about a half-mile outside city of Greenfield borders, but Radakovich said it is "very routine" to stop drivers outside city limits. Any law enforcement officer with a Milwaukee County agency has jurisdiction to make stops throughout the county.

Until investigators hear from the officer himself, Radakovich said he could only speculate as to why the stop occurred in the city of Milwaukee.

Greenfield police have not released the names of the officers or the suspect.

The officer who was shot had three years of experience, police said. The two officers who shot at the suspect were described as a 32-year-old with less than two years of experience and a 22-year-old with three years of experience.

All body camera and squad car footage from the incident was turned over to the Milwaukee Police Department; the Milwaukee Area Investigative Team will be investigating the shooting.

The suspect's death is the second fatal police shooting in the city of Milwaukee in a week. Milwaukee police on Aug. 16 fatally shot 42-year-old Broderick Shelton Jr. after they say he fired a weapon as officers approached at a gas station on the 2500 block of North 27th Street.