Update (10:11 a.m. Tuesday)

Officials with the Amarillo Police Department released further information regarding an officer-involved shooting which occurred in the 500 block of S. Bivins Monday evening.

According to a news release, officers identified the deceased suspect in the case as 42-year-old Trinidad Marry. Officers stress that the investigation into the incident is ongoing.

"Detectives ask that anyone who witnessed the incident or that may have video that could help in the case, call the Amarillo Police Department at 378-9468," the release stated.

Update (10:57 p.m.)

Officials with the Amarillo Police Department released information regarding a Monday evening officer-involved shooting which occurred in the 500 block of S. Bivins, a little more than a mile from the location of Friday's officer-involved shooting. Officers from the department were not hurt in the incident.

According to Amarillo Police Chief Martin Birkenfeld, officers from the department were dispatched to the area of SE Fifth St. and Browning where several individuals reported a man with a handgun in the neighborhood.

Officers located the suspect in the intersection of Eighth St. and Browning, where officers reported that the male, who has not been identified, pointed the gun at both officers and civilians, Birkenfeld said.

"The officers talked to him for a considerable amount of time as he walked down the street, still waving the gun," he said. "The officers walked with the male to the 500 block of S. Bivins St. and at that point, the officers shot the male. The male has died and has since been removed from the scene."

When asked if the male fired the handgun, Birkenfeld said officials do not know at this point, with the male covering a lot of ground.

Birkenfeld said that officials also do not know what caused the officers to make the decision to shoot the suspect.

"That, at this point, we don’t know yet and again, obviously something changed in the encounter, but it is very early in the investigation," he said. "We will have those answers in the very near future."

While the investigation is still ongoing, Birkenfeld stressed that he believes that de-escalation tactics were used by the officers in the incident

"Our officers do that all the time on all kinds of different calls," he said. "We try, in every case possible, to not use force whenever a situation is occurring, regardless of what the other person is doing. But in some cases as this one, it was an extreme circumstance. It was a bad situation."

This comes after the department was involved in a officer-involved shooting on Friday at an apartment complex in the 1200 block of South Roberts Street. According to previous reports, one man, later identified as 34-year-old George Michael Mireles, was shot and eventually died after allegedly firing at the officers.

Prior to Friday's incident, Birkenfeld said it had been 17 months since the last time an Amarillo Police Department officer was involved in a shooting.

"It’s just misfortune and bad circumstances that pile up," he said. "We have seen an increase of violent crime in Amarillo and that is a problem that we are working on right now."

Birkenfeld said the investigation could take several weeks to gather all the information from witnesses. He encouraged residents of the neighborhood to come forward if they have any information.

"We want to make sure we don’t miss any witnesses so anyone who lives in the area of S Bivins or any of the streets nearby, please give us a call," Birkenfeld said. "Let us know what you saw or heard and tell us if you have, for example, a Ring Camera or something like that because there are all kinds of ways we can collect video evidence. We really could use that to piece it all together. Every little tip helps, every little witness statement that we could get can help and certainly, any video or audio evidence that somebody has can help."

Officials with the police department stressed that it is still early in the investigation and more information will be released as the investigation continues.

The Amarillo Globe-News will continue to update this story as more information is released. For more information about the Amarillo Police Department, visit www.amapolice.org.

Original Story:

Police are investigating another officer involved shooting that took place Monday night.

According to an advisory issued by the Amarillo Police Department, APD investigators are at the scene of an officer involved shooting in the 500 block of south Bivins Street. No officers have been injured. A media conference is scheduled to take place at southeast 6th and Pittsburgh Street, and a reporter is heading to the scene at this time.

This story will be updated.