RUTLAND, Vt. (WCAX) - One man is dead after a police-involved shooting inside a Rutland restaurant Wednesday.

Police tape blocked off a McDonald’s along busy Route 7 in Rutland Wednesday afternoon after a 33-year-old male, whose identity has not yet been released, was shot and killed by a Rutland City police officer.

“There were events that led up to this that were not entirely clear yet because we still have a lot of interviews going on,” Vermont State Police Maj. Dan Trudeau said.

State police say the Rutland County Sheriff’s Department and Rutland City police were searching for a man they heard was driving erratically with a flat tire at high speeds on back roads near Wallingford.

“Officers certainly were looking for this vehicle. I think some pursued it for a short while and he evaded all of them,” Trudeau said.

The pursuit ended when the victim crashed into the back of a UPS truck and ran inside the McDonald’s.

State police say there were a lot of witnesses at the scene and many have been interviewed, including most of the McDonald’s employees.

“The UPS truck was on the side trying to turn right and all of a sudden there was a bunch of smoke and then a black car just swerved away from it. It was totaled, like the front of it was just trashed. It did some damage to the UPS truck, too. It just shows how fast he was going,” said Allison Morrill, who witnessed the crash.

Wednesday evening, state police said officers who arrived at the scene after the shooting have been interviewed, but those from the Rutland City Police had not yet been interviewed, including the Rutland City officer who shot the man. There were no other officers on the scene at the time of the shooting.

Police say the man’s body has been sent for an autopsy. No other injuries were reported in connection with the incident.

State police say the investigation is still in its earliest stages and they are processing the crime scene, interviewing witnesses and reviewing surveillance. Anyone with information on the incident is asked to call state police in Rutland at 802-773-9101.

Vermont state police are leading the investigation into the police shooting, which is standard practice in Vermont. Several other agencies are helping. When their investigation is complete, they will turn over the case to the Attorney General’s office and Rutland County state’s attorney for reviews of the officer’s use of deadly force.

Copyright 2021 WCAX. All rights reserved.