An armed 33-year-old man who barricaded himself in his Kakaako apartment this afternoon was shot and killed by Honolulu police.

It’s the sixth officer shooting this year and the fourth fatality, according to police.

At around 1:45 p.m. police responded to a call about a distraught male who was possibly armed at the apartment building located at 1065 Kawaiahao St., according to Honolulu Police Department interim Chief Rade Vanic.

Vanic held a news conference at HPD’s downtown headquarters to discuss the shooting at around 8 p.m. and said police were still at the scene investigating.

He said a crisis negotiation team was deployed and had talked with the suspect for three hours, “during which time he opened and closed the door multiple times while brandishing a handgun,” said Vanic, who later added that he wasn’t sure if the suspect had been threatening anyone.

Vanic also noted that the suspect was bleeding from his arm.

At around 4:35 p.m. an officer from HPD’s Specialized Services Division, or SWAT team, fired a “less-lethal” rubber bullet at the suspect that was “ineffective.”

“A struggle ensued between the male and several SWAT officers. During the struggle, the male pointed the handgun at one of the officers. At that time, another officer shot the man, fatally striking him,” Vanic said.

The man was apparently alone in his apartment and was shot once. The details of his struggle with officers are still unclear.

No police footage is available because SWAT officers do not wear body-worn cameras. Vanic said SWAT officers were not part of HPD’s initial rollout of the cameras, which were given to patrol and traffic officers “who have a daily interaction with the public.” He added that body-worn cameras could lead to interference with other equipment while SWAT officers are working, but said it’s still an option HPD is exploring.

Vanic said the officer who fired at the man has served with HPD for 12 years and has been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure. An administrative investigation has been opened.

For hours on this afternoon, HPD closed off part of Kamakee Street and Kawaiahao Street after responding to the call.