Seminole County sheriff’s deputies shot and killed a 26-year-old man early Thursday in Sanford after authorities received a call about a woman crying for help, officials said.

SANFORD, Fla. – Seminole County sheriff’s deputies shot and killed a 26-year-old man early Thursday in Sanford after authorities received a call about a woman crying for help, officials said.

The fatal shooting was reported just before 2 a.m. on Riverview Avenue near Narcissus Avenue, south of Lake Monroe and north of U.S. Highway 17.

[TRENDING: What does full approval of Pfizer jab really mean? | Become a News 6 Insider (it’s free!)]

Seminole County Sheriff Dennis Lemma identified the man as Samuel Kirk, who was shot five times by two deputies.

Kirk, believed to be a Marine veteran, was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead, Lemma said. The deputies were not injured.

According to Lemma, authorities received a 911 call from someone saying a woman needed help because she was being hurt.

Deputies investigated, but the woman had already left in a vehicle, Lemma said. Deputies then knocked on the door of a home on Riverview Avenue and Kirk came out of the house and into the carport, pointing a gun at deputies and firing a shot, Lemma said.

[footage of incident is in video above, video is at 25% speed]

One of the deputies took cover, and she and another deputy fired about 15 shots, striking Kirk five times, Lemma said.

The deputies rendered aid to Kirk, who was rushed to a hospital, according to officials.

Lemma said Kirk had met the woman whom the 911 caller said needed help at a downtown Sanford bar about a week ago. Lemma said Kirk and the woman were drinking at the bar Wednesday night, and Kirk took an Uber back to his house. The woman followed him home to make sure he got there safely when the two got into an altercation, Lemma said.

According to Lemma, Kirk slammed the woman to the ground and started choking her. She yelled for help and drove away, officials said.

“When they were in front of his home here that’s when the verbal disturbance occurred. She started to yell and scream “you’re hurting me help me” neighbors heard that. Neighbors called 911,” Lemma said.

Maximilian Ranieri, who lives on Riverview Avenue, said he woke up the sound of gunshots. He said his sister called 911.

“Immediately as soon as I heard I woke up I knew they were gunshots and I suspected it was right in our front yard or our neighbors across the street,” Ranieri said.

Lemma said the deputies, both hired less than two years ago, repeatedly yelled for Kirk to drop his gun. He said the deputies were shaken up but not physically harmed and credited their quick actions for saving their own lives.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement will investigate the shooting, and the deputies will be placed on leave, which is standard procedure in shootings.

#BREAKING The Seminole County Sheriff’s Office confirmed they’re investigating a deputy-involved shooting that happened on Riverview Avenue just before 2 a.m. We’re pressing them for more information. We’ll keep you updated. pic.twitter.com/MVxciYyaqo — Treasure Roberts (@News6Treasure) August 26, 2021

Use the form below to sign up for the ClickOrlando.com 4pm Trending newsletter, sent every weekday.