Teresa Virrjen woke up 15 minutes before her alarm went off and lay in bed wide awake.

The time was 3:45 a.m. on Sunday, Aug. 29, and Virrjen, a certified nursing assistant and mother of three, said waking up before her alarm sounded at 4 a.m. felt strange. It never happened.

After turning off her alarm, she sleepily went through motions of getting ready for work at Oak River Rehab, a nursing home in Anderson.

All her children were at home, asleep, except for her middle child, Kevin Cortez, a 15-year-old sophomore at Enterprise High School. On Saturday, Kevin asked her if he could play soccer with his friend in the park and spend the night at his house.

Virrjen was happy her son was starting to socialize, the Redding mom said. Kevin was "a hermit." He loved gaming, so he was mostly at home playing on his computer or helping care for his baby brother, who is a 1-year-old.

About 5:30 a.m. on her way to work, Virrjen drove past a car crash on Cypress Avenue and Hilltop Drive and almost stopped to ask a police officer what happened but he didn’t look approachable, she said. She thought to herself that she hoped everyone involved was OK and kept driving down Cypress to get on Interstate 5.

At about 11 a.m. she started receiving text messages on her phone asking about Kevin. By 1 p.m., people were sending her messages saying “prayers for Kevin.”

“I didn’t understand why they were saying that,” she said.

Confused, Virrjen called Kevin but the call went straight to his voicemail. She called her oldest son’s phone but couldn’t reach him either.

By then she was in a panic. When she finally got through to Carlos Jeffrey Cortez, her 18-year-old son, he told her people were saying on social media Kevin had died. But she said she couldn't believe it.

“I just got this mom feeling,” she said. “At this point I was shaking. I called my brother and mom and demanded they pray.”

To her brother, she said to call everywhere — the hospitals, the police. She just couldn't bring herself to do it.

By 2 p.m., she still had not heard more from anyone about Kevin, she said. She told her supervising nurse she needed to find her son and left.

Her brother would later confirm to her Kevin's body was at the coroner's office on Veterans Lane in south Redding.

Kevin died in the car crash she had seen that morning on Cypress and Hilltop.

At a time when she expected to be actively job hunting so she could be closer to Kevin's school, Virrjen is living a parent's worst nightmare.

She has spent the entire week surrounded by family, who are helping her with Kevin's memorial. Virrjen said she does not know if she'll ever be ready to confront the hole left in her family with the death of her middle child.

How the crash happened

Kevin was one of the five teens who were in the car that crashed at the intersection of Cypress and Hilltop in the early hours of Aug. 29.

The Redding Police Department said the vehicle, a 2017 Honda Accord, had been reported as stolen but did not say who stole it.

An officer attempted to stop the car, but, rather than pulling over, the driver fled.

The 15-year-old Redding boy, who was allegedly driving, ran the red light at Hilltop Drive and Mistletoe Lane and headed south on Hilltop Drive. The vehicle was traveling fast and the officer lost sight of the car, police said.

The driver ran a red light at Cypress and Hilltop and collided with another vehicle as the two went through the intersection, police said.

The stolen car flipped over and rested on its roof in the nearby Circle K parking lot. Several occupants were ejected from the car. Tragically, Kevin died in that crash.

The alleged driver was arrested on suspicion of vehicular manslaughter, evading police and causing injury, and possessing a stolen vehicle. He was taken to the Shasta County Juvenile Rehabilitation Facility and booked there, police said.

A bond between two brothers

Kevin's family said they did not know much about the other teens he was with that Sunday.

They remember Kevin as a smart, funny and kind teenager. He never got in trouble but was very trusting of others, Virrjen said.

Jeffrey said the last time he saw his younger brother was on Saturday, Aug. 28. Jeffrey came home after working a late shift at Dude’s Drive Inn and was hungry, debating whether he should go to Jack In The Box. He asked Kevin if he wanted anything.

“If you want, there’s food in the microwave for you,” Kevin told him. “It’s mine.”

In the microwave Jeffrey found a bacon cheeseburger and two tacos — his favorite.

Kevin loved food but he was generous with what he had, his older brother said.

“If he was down to his last chicken nugget and I asked for it, he would give it to me,” Virrjen added.

Kevin loved to cook as much as he loved to eat. He watched YouTube videos to learn how to make meals for his family. His pork chops and tri-tip were especially delicious, Jeffrey said.

“He was very fluffy," Jeffrey said, a reference to Kevin's favorite comedian, Gabriel Iglesias, whose nickname is Fluffy. Iglesias talks openly about his weight on his shows and often says, "I'm not fat, I'm fluffy."

"Everything about (Kevin) was fluffy and he was such a sweetheart," Jeffrey said.

Kevin wanted to do three things when he grew up, he would tell his family. He wanted to become a chef, start his first job at GameStop, and go on to work with computers, Virrjen said.

He was also a protector. Virrjen said after the birth of her youngest son, Kevin would stay up with her into the night to warm bottles and get him to sleep. He played with his baby brother and sometimes changed his diapers.

But as a teenager, his favorite place was his bedroom.

When he was 14, he built his own computer and played on it day and night. Some of his favorite games were Minecraft and Fortnite, Jeffrey said.

It was just the type of influence Jeffrey had on his younger brother. Growing up, Kevin would see Jeffrey play video games and wanted to do it, too.

“They were together like gum on your shoe, never apart,” said Adogran Alvarez, Jeffrey and Kevin's uncle.

Jeffrey would tease Kevin by letting him use a controller that he had disconnected but still gave Kevin the illusion he was playing, he said. When Jeffrey said he wanted to become a YouTuber and streamer, so did Kevin.

And having Kevin following in his footsteps meant extra responsibility for Jeffrey.

“My mom would be like, Kevin watches over you,” Jeffrey said.

'I love you, son'

But it was time for him to branch out, Jeffrey said. Kevin was getting older. So his big brother started to encourage him to go out, meet people and make friends, instead of being in front of the computer gaming.

“This kid would wake up, game all the way into the night and sometimes sleep throughout the day,” Virrjen said. “He was more of a homebody and was too tired to go out so I thought it was weird when he did.”

Kevin wasn’t known well at Enterprise High School because when he started as a freshman, it was through distance learning due to the coronavirus pandemic. He missed the first week of school in August as well because the family had a misunderstanding on how independent learning worked.

He was sheltered and unquestioning of others, they said. He did not get into trouble and was only beginning to build his social circle, Jeffrey said.

“I would never in a million years imagine this,” Jeffrey said.

The day before the accident, Kevin's uncle was having a party. He told his mom he would rather play soccer with his friend, Virrjen said. The last time she saw him alive was at 4 p.m. that Saturday. He later called her to ask if he can stay the night with the friend and Virrjen agreed.

“I love you, son,” she said to him over the phone before she hung up.

'I'm here for you'

Kevin's death has sparked an outpouring of support. Virrjen started a GoFundMe to pay for his funeral. In its first three days, she raised $8,800.

Enterprise is in contact with the family and prepared to support them as much as possible, Principal Ryan Johnson said. On Tuesday, the school dressed in red, which was Kevin's favorite color. On Friday, the school paid tribute to him by holding a moment of silence at the beginning of a pep rally and releasing red balloons. The school also held a moment of silence in their football game against Gridley High School.

Virrjen’s co-workers have been asking if there’s anything they can do to help — even if it’s just laundry. Jeffrey’s manager worked his shifts for him at Dude’s.

Jeffrey said his brother was his best friend. They moved around several times in their lives, and the family came to Redding from Los Angeles five years ago. They went through a lot together, he said, and it made it difficult to make friends. Because of this, they became friends to each other.

“One thing I do is reflect on his life because I was there in the turning points,” Jeffrey said. “Even if he was sad, he would smile and be like, 'I hope you’re having a good day and I'm here for you.'"

Both Virrjen and Jeffrey said Kevin appears in their dreams.

Jeffrey goes out to the makeshift memorial that's been created where Kevin died. A few days ago, he and his friends ordered Kevin's favorite food, Hawaiian barbecue, and took it to eat there.

“The hardest part is just accepting it and knowing he’s not going to be here,” Jeffrey said. “I want to live my whole life especially for my brother.”

With the devastation they’re feeling, Virrjen said she is considering therapy for her and her son. She’s terrified about being left alone, she said.

“I get those feelings like I want to scream. I can’t breathe. I want to run out and just scream. Those kinds of feelings. And I think I’m afraid to have the meltdowns.

"But I know the day I see him I’m going to have to,” she said of viewing his body at the funeral.

For now, she spends time with her mom and brothers as much as possible. Kevin's room remains untouched, and when she’s home, she keeps his lights on, she said.

To donate to Kevin Cortez's memorial, go to the family's GoFundMe page at bit.ly/3DXcpx5.

Nada Atieh is a Report For America corps member and education reporter focusing on childhood trauma and the achievement gap for the Redding Record Searchlight. Follow her on Twitter at @nadatieh_RS. Help local journalism thrive by subscribing today! And if you are able, please consider a tax-deductible gift toward her work.