Dontrell Stephens, the West Palm Beach man who won a multimillion-dollar lawsuit after being shot and left paralyzed by a Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office deputy in 2013, has died, his attorney said Thursday.

Stephens died Sunday from complications associated with his paralysis, said attorney Jack Scarola, who represented Stephens in a civil lawsuit against PBSO. Stephens was 28.

More: Sheriff Ric Bradshaw fought to keep Dontrell Stephens from getting money for care

More:Governor’s signature hands police shooting victim Dontrell Stephens $6 million

More:’The nerve of you’: Lawmakers appalled at way sheriff portrays man shot by deputy

"It was a variety of issues, including bed sores," Scarola told The Palm Beach Post. Many paraplegics, including the actor Christopher Reeves, die of bed sores. Stephens had been in a hospital for about three weeks when he died.

"Dontrell had a very sad and difficult life," Scarola said. "I hope that as a consequence of the resolution of his case that he had some relief. But whatever relief he had was very short-lived."

Scarola said he did not have details regarding funeral arrangements.

Dontrell Stephens was left paralyzed in 2013 after PBSO shooting

Stephens was shot in the spine in September 2013 by PBSO deputy Adams Lin, who stopped him as he rode his bicycle on Haverhill Road and mistook Stephens' cellphone for a weapon.

The story made national news after a dashboard-camera video went viral showing the deputy shoot Stephens, then 20, as he ran away with his back to the deputy.

In 2016, a federal jury awarded Stephens $22.5 million during a civil trial, but the verdict was overturned by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. The Florida House of Representatives later awarded Stephens $6 million, with Gov. Ron DeSantis signing off on the settlement in June 2020.

Scarola said Stephens had bought a house and a van with the money he got from his settlement with the sheriff's office. Some of the money was in an annuity administered by Port St. Lucie attorney Evett Simmons. Whatever is left of it and any other assets Stephens had will be distributed to his family members, Scarola said.

jmusgrave@pbpost.com

jwhigham@pbpost.com

@JuliusWhigham