WARREN — A long-time volunteer firefighter was shot to death at a Warren social club Thursday afternoon shortly before the suspect, also believed to be the club's president, engaged police in a gunfight and died in an alley close to the waterfront, authorities said Thursday night.

Brian Remy, a volunteer who has served as assistant chief of the Warren Fire Department for 30 years, died in the Italian American Club, where, outside, police had found 41-year-old Jason Furtado with gunshot injuries to his abdomen and hip area, said Warren police Chief Roy Borges.

The suspected shooter, 37-year-old Michael Ouellette, was found dead in an alley off Water Street shortly after a gunfight with Bristol police, who had rushed into Warren to provide support after the initial shooting, said Bristol police Maj. Brian Burke.

Borges and Burke spoke at a joint news conference Thursday night at Warren's police station, part of a public safety headquarters building where firefighters were grieving. They were accompanied by Fire Chief James Souza, who wore a black band over his badge.

The violence, which drew a massive police response to a quaint Water Street section, initially brought Warren police to the club at 2:56 p.m., said Borges.

Warren police drove to Kelly Street location to handle a shooting that was reported as a man had been shot in the abdomen, he said.

On arrival, he said, the officers encountered Furtado who had been shot in the abdomen and hip area.

They found Remy, who was dead, in the club, he said.

Soon after, Warren police summoned Bristol Police for mutual aid. In minutes, they learned that Bristol police were fielding gunfire on Water Street in Warren.

At 3:17 p.m., said Burke, two Bristol officers had encountered Ouellette at 135 Water Street as they headed toward the scene on Kelly Street. The lights of the unmarked cruiser flashed.

They were near the junction of Sisson Street and Water Street when one of them heard a "popping noise." One of the officers, he said, spotted a person who matched the suspect described in the Warren police alert.

The officer who was driving turned the cruiser in the opposite direction and stepped out to deal with Ouellette who fired at the cruiser. The officer took cover and returned fire, he said, emphasizing that just one officer fired back.

Ouellette retreated to an alley, he said. Other officers arrived. Police found Oullette dead on the ground.

When he was asked if Ouellette had taken his own life, Burke said the medical examiner hadn't determined the cause of death.

It was unclear if Ouellette had been hit by any of the return fire.

"That's being investigated," Burke said. He declined to identify the two officers by name.

One of them, he said, had stopped a woman who was driving along Water Street, told her to leave her vehicle and directed her to a safer location.

Earlier Thursday, state police Col. James Manni confirmed that state police and the attorney general's office were investigating an officer-involved shooting in Warren, but could provide no further information.

Borges said it appears Ouellette is the person who shot the two men at the club but that's still under investigation. He said he believes Ouellette is the president of the club.

Remy has volunteered at the Warren Fire Department for 40 years and he's served as assistant chief for three decades, said the department's chief, James Souza.

He was a dedicated volunteer firefighter who served for years day and night, Souza said.

"He was an all around good person to have on the department," said Souza, who described Remy as a "good mentor" to other firefighters.

Police believe Furtado, also a Warren resident, was hit once. He was taken to Rhode Island Hospital. No one else, beyond the three men, all Warren residents, was injured during the chaos, Borges said.

Neighbors heard gunshots

The sound of gunfire, in the middle of the afternoon in September, isn't common in Warren. It snagged the attention of residents.

Just before 3 p.m., 27-year-old Ashley Brisson was in the backyard of her home on Kelly Street, across the street from the Italian-American Club, when she heard gunshots.

The sound was "pop, pop, pop," she said. The noise drew her to the front of her home, and in the parking lot in front of the club she saw an injured man who appeared to have been shot in the hip, she said.

The man said, "Someone shot me. He's in there," referring to the club, Brisson said. She said the man was taken from the scene in an ambulance.

Brisson said the police directed her and a friend away from Kelly Street, and so they went to her backyard. At one point, she heard police yell, "He's running."

Two women who live near a section of Water Street that was cordoned off by police said they had heard gunshots. Alexus Casey, 27, who lives on Union Street, described hearing two shots followed by a staccato of gunfire.

Sheyenne Lemoi, 20, said she heard gunshots, too. "It was all so quick," she said.