BATTLE CREEK, Mich. — Battle Creek police gave an update Thursday afternoon on an officer-involved shooting, saying the suspect shot himself at the same time an officer opened fire.

Police showed how the incident played out through body-worn camera footage played during a press conference Thursday afternoon. It shows just 61 seconds between when contact was made and when shots were fired.

RELATED: Police investigate officer-involved shooting in Battle Creek

Watch it here:

***WARNING: This video contains content that some viewers may find disturbing. Viewer discretion is advised. ***

Police identified the suspect involved as 27-year-old Kamren Brown.

The incident started on Wednesday just before 4 p.m.

A woman told 911 dispatch that Brown was trying to break into her home. She said he had a gun and was afraid he would harm her.

"The caller told dispatch the suspect had broke out the back window of the house with the gun. Dispatch could hear the screaming in the background," said Battle Creek Police Chief Jim Blocker in a press conference on Thursday.

"Stop. Stop. Stop. Got one running," said Battle Creek Police Department Officer Ty Willing in video that was played back from his body-worn camera.

Just one minute after 4 p.m., investigators said officers spotted Brown in an alley. He reportedly took off on foot despite officers' calls to stop.

"Stop. Stop now. Stop right now. Stop. Get your f**** hands up. Get your hands up," said Officer Willing in the video footage.

"The suspect jumped a fence and the officer began to catch up to the suspect around the same time. The officer drew his sidearm and ordered the suspect to show his hands," said Chief Blocker.

Brown eventually started to comply with officers by getting on his knees and putting his hands up.

"I’ve got to figure out what is going on. Get your hands out of your pockets. Come on. Stand up. Stand up. Just stand up. He’s got a gun," said Officer Willing.

The officer put his gun in his holster and told Brown to stand up, but he refused. The officer tried to help him up by grabbing his arm and pulling him toward him. That's when police say Brown pulled a gun from his pocket.

"The suspect placed the gun up to his head and pulled the trigger, about the same time the officer fired his weapon, one time," said Chief Blocker.

"He just shot himself," said Officer Willing in the video footage.

Police recovered the gun Brown used, and say it had been stolen from Indiana. It was a Smith & Wesson semi-automatic handgun.

Brown reportedly had a criminal history with weapons and drugs, along with a charge of assault with intent to murder.

Brown died at the scene.

"I think it was important for you to see the full spectrum of what that officer saw and what we have seen as a part of this investigation. I think the public needs to see it. I think they need to see the hard work and the suddenness of the work that these folks have to go through," said Blocker.

The officer involved, who fired his weapon, has been placed on paid administrative leave. Battle Creek police said it is protocol in cases like these. The investigation has been turned over to Michigan State Police.