This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

UPDATE:

On Sept. 8, IMPD identified the officers involved as 24-year veteran Sgt. Garth Schwomeyer and 17-year veteran Sgt. Erik Forestal.

IMPD will continue to be transparent, while protecting the integrity of criminal investigations. IMPD has recently formalized a policy that outlines when and how officers involved in critical incidents should be identified to the public. This new policy solidifies IMPD’s practice of conducting a threat assessment following a critical incident and prior to releasing the names of the officers involved to protect the officer and their families. This policy will ensure information is provided to the public as soon as possible. After any critical incident, IMPD’s Intelligence Unit conducts a threat assessment for any officer involved, which includes an analysis of social media, community, and law enforcement information. This incident is being investigated by IMPD’s Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT). Detectives are working with the Marion County Prosecutors Office, the Marion County Forensic Services Agency, and the Marion County Coroner’s Office to ensure a fair and thorough investigation is completed. A separate internal investigation is being conducted by IMPD’s Internal Affairs Unit to ensure compliance with departmental policy, as is standard procedure in an officer-involved shooting. In addition, the civilian-majority Use of Force Review Board will conduct a mandatory review of this incident as it does for any use of deadly force against a person. IMPD

ORIGINAL STORY:

INDIANAPOLIS – Indianapolis Metropolitan police are investigating an officer-involved shooting on the east side that left one person dead.

The IMPD violent crimes unit was tracking a suspect, 33-year-old James Williams, who was wanted in connection with a homicide. He also had a felony warrant for escape and weapons offenses.

Just after noon, detectives encountered the suspect as he left the convenience store at East 21st Street and Ritter Avenue. Williams went back inside and surveillance video shows detectives followed him.

The IMPD says the video then shows detectives speaking to Williams and asking him to show his hands. The man then allegedly raised a gun, pointing it at the detectives. Two detectives fired their service weapons, hitting the suspect.

No officers were injured in the incident, however, Williams was declared dead at the scene.

Police said Williams was armed with a handgun and considered a serious violent felon.

Photo of the suspect’s alleged gun provided by IMPD

Neither of the detectives involved in this incident had body cameras on at the time of the shooting. Both detectives were reportedly wearing vests that identified them as police officers on both the front and back.

The officers who fired their weapons have been placed on administrative leave, as is standard protocol while an Internal Affairs investigation remains underway.

The civilian-majority Use of Force Review Board will review the incident as well.