Update: Officials determined the cause of a fatal crash was high speed, failure to use headlights when required, disregarding a stop sign, a lack of knowledge of the area and driver impairment from THC, according to the information released by the Boone County Sheriff's Office on March 18, 2022.

Corrections & Clarifications: A previous version of this story listed an incorrect age for the female who died in the crash. Police now say she was 13 years old.

Update: Police on Sept. 8 identified the two deceased teens as Nazire Parks, 14, and Kamyla Young, 13. Both lived in Indianapolis.

Original story: Two teens were killed and four other juveniles were injured in a single-car crash just east of Lebanon in Boone County that began as a police chase early Friday, police confirmed.

The crash occurred shortly after 4 a.m. on State Road 32 near County Road 650 East — about 30 miles northwest of Indianapolis — when a Kia Soul drove off the road and into a tree, a spokesperson from the Boone County Sheriff's Office said.

A 13-year-old girl, who was in the passenger seat at the time of the crash, as well as a 14-year-old driver of the car, a boy, were pronounced dead at the scene, the spokesperson said. Two 12-year-old girls, a 15-year-old boy and a 16-year-old boy were taken to area hospitals.

Information about the driver or the conditions of those injured had not been released as of 4 p.m. Friday.

Lawrence Police Department Deputy Chief Gary Woodruff told IndyStar the crash began as a police chase in Lawrence. Officers in Lawrence began chasing the car about 4 a.m., Woodruff said, but ended that pursuit while still in Marion County.

"We were not in active pursuit when the crash occurred," Woodruff said.

Boone County officials said the chase, which lasted 15 minutes, began due to "infractions." Police said one of the infractions was for speeding and generally said the other involved the car’s “equipment,” such as a broken tail light.

The Boone County Sheriff's Office is handling the investigation.

Contact Lawrence Andrea at 317-775-4313 or landrea@indystar.com. Follow him on Twitter @lawrencegandrea.