Denver police said three Westminster officers fired their weapons a total of 27 times after the suspect fired at them.

Example video title will go here for this video

DENVER — The Denver Police Department (DPD) has released more information about a shooting in Montbello involving Westminster Police officers Friday night.

According to DPD, officers from the Westminster Police Department (WPD) were conducting a surveillance operation in the 5300 block of Billings Street in Denver to locate a man wanted for attempted murder in WPD's jurisdiction.

DPD said the suspect left a home at around 7:30 p.m.

>Watch the full media briefing by Westminster and Denver police below.

Westminster officers tried to contact the man, who then fired a handgun at them, according to DPD. Three of the four WPD officers who were at the scene returned fire, DPD said, discharging a total of 27 rounds. The suspect was struck multiple times, according to Denver police.

DPD said the officers involved rendered aid until paramedics arrived and took the suspect to the hospital, where he died. He was identified as 37-year-old Drew Lucero by the coroner. An autopsy was performed and he died from multiple gunshot wounds, the coroner's office said.

No officers were injured, according to DPD.

DPD said that because the incident took place in Denver, the investigation will be conducted according to Denver's officer-involved shooting protocol. The investigation is being conducted by a multi-agency investigative team comprised of members of the Denver and Aurora police departments, as well as the Denver District Attorney's Office.

The Denver District Attorney's Office will then determine whether the actions of the WPD officers were in compliance with state law, according to a release from DPD.

Anyone with information about the case is asked to call Metro Denver Crime Stoppers at 720-913-7867.

SUGGESTED VIDEOS: Latest from 9NEWS

MORE WAYS TO GET 9NEWS

Subscribe to our daily 9NEWSLETTER for top stories from 9NEWS curated daily just for you. Get content and information right now for can’t-miss stories, Next and Broncos content, weather and more delivered right to your inbox.

DOWNLOAD THE 9NEWS APP

iTunes: http://on9news.tv/itunes

Google Play: http://on9news.tv/1lWnC5n

HOW TO ADD THE 9NEWS APP TO YOUR STREAMING DEVICE

ROKU: add the channel from the ROKU store or by searching for KUSA.