BERRYVILLE, Ark. (KY3) - Police in Berryville say Kevin Wolfinbarger was involved in a standoff with officers Monday that ended in a deadly house fire.

Officers responded to the home in the 1100 block of North Springfield Street, Monday around 3:45 p.m. Investigators say a woman inside her bathroom called 911 after her ex-husband broke into her home. She escaped after he broke down the door of the bathroom.

“The fact that he broke in there and went after her, it showed that he was potentially violent,” said Berryville Police Chief Robert Bartos. “He forced his way into the bathroom and she was able to push him out of the way and get out of the residence.”

What was initially a break-in turned into an armed standoff. Officers attempted to speak with Wolfinbarger, who was armed at the time.

”They yelled commands at him, to get him to come talk to them, to drop the firearm, at no time did he acknowledge them,” said Chief Bartos.

A one point, Wolfinbarger came outside and lit a cigarette, but never acknowledged police.

”With him being armed our officers stayed at a distance and tried to get control of him by command,” said Bartos. “We didn’t want to provoke a gunfight by running up there and having to shoot him.”

Wolfinbarger then went back inside and smoke soon started coming from the house. First responders worked to fight the flames, while trying to get Wolfinbarger to come out.

”When the fire started our guys were still yelling to him, ‘hey go ahead and come out, c’mon just come out of the house,’” said Bartos. “We waited a few minutes and the house went up pretty quick, on the fire and smoke. So we waited a little bit and as much smoke was rolling out and stuff we figured it was probably to the point if anyone was still inside they would probably be overcome by smoke.”

Police say Wolfinbarger was oblivious to police activity. After the flames were contained, Wolfinbarger’s body was removed from the house.

To report a correction or typo, please email digitalnews@ky3.com

Copyright 2021 KY3. All rights reserved.