GILROY (KPIX 5) -- A male suspect was shot and killed by a police officer in Gilroy early Wednesday morning after the man opened fire on the officer, police said.

The incident happened around 2:30 a.m. in the area of Fourth and Eigleberry Streets, outside a U.S. Post Office.

Gilroy Police said officers responded to a report of an intoxicated male at the location. The first officer arrived at the scene and encountered the suspect, described as a Hispanic male.

"Within seconds, fired a gun at the officer. The officer then returned fire at the suspect. He sustained one gunshot wound, at least one gunshot wound. Medical aid was provided to him on scene," Sgt. Lamonte Toney said at a briefing on Wednesday.

Scene of fatal police shooting outside a U.S. Post Office at Fourth and Eigleberry streets in Gilroy, September 8, 2021. (CBS)

The suspect apparently collapsed at the base of the steps in the covered entryway of the post office facing Eigleberry Street, and was taken to a local trauma center where he died of his injuries. His identity was withheld until his family members were notified.

Gilroy Police said aside from the department's investigations bureau, the incident would also be probed by the department's internal affairs unit and the Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office.

Only preliminary information would be released at this time and additional information may be released as it becomes available, police said.

"At this point, we can't make determinations on whether it's justified or not," said Toney, of the officer's decision to open fire on the suspect.

The Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office and the California Highway Patrol assisted in responding to the scene.

"I don't ever want to have to have something like this happen, because it's a life or death situation. We understand as part of the job, but it's not something that we hope to encounter," Toney said.

Anyone with information about the shooting was asked to contact Detective Christopher Silva at (408) 846-0335. Anonymous tips can be submitted by calling 408-846-0330.