This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

CHICAGO — A suspect is dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound after dozens of Chicago police officers, including members of the SWAT team were involved in a barricade situation in the city’s Pulaski Park neighborhood outside of a motel Wednesday. The incident concluded shortly after 4 p.m.

A police tactical unit surrounded the Rodeway Inn Motel at the corner of North Lincoln Avenue and North Jersey Avenues in Pulaski Park on the Northwest Side Wednesday afternoon in connection to a person of interest in a suspicious death in Kenosha.

Sources have told WGN News that the situation involves Roberto Andino, a man who is was a person of interest in a suspicious death being investigated in Kenosha after a vehicle being sought after in connection to the death was located at the motel.

Chicago Police are dealing with a “hostage barricade” situation at a motel located near the corner of N. Lincoln Ave. and N. Jersey Ave. on the Northwest Side. @WGNNews pic.twitter.com/y0JxWBS5F9 — Mike Lowe (@MikeLoweReports) September 8, 2021

Kenosha police said they performed a welfare check on a woman who didn’t report to work and couldn’t be reached after the Labor Day weekend, and found her dead at her Kenosha home with her vehicle and gun missing.

Chicago police have been trying to bring the standoff to a peaceful conclusion this afternoon, near crowds of people at the nearby Lincoln Village shopping center.

Police have made several announcements over a loudspeaker, asking the suspect to surrender peacefully with no response yet.

Shortly after 4 p.m., the standoff appeared to have ended, with police reopening traffic on Lincoln Avenue.

The standoff appears to be over. Police have reopened Lincoln Ave. @WGNNews pic.twitter.com/nQ82DkAM4v — Mike Lowe (@MikeLoweReports) September 8, 2021

According to police, the man sustained a self-inflicted gunshot wound and was pronounced dead at the scene. The incident is currently being investigated by Area Five detectives.

From @Chicago_Police: “UPDATE: A male sustained a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The victim has been pronounced and area five detectives are currently investigating as a death investigation.” @WGNNews — Mike Lowe (@MikeLoweReports) September 8, 2021