Omaha police say man died in custody after a disturbance at a bowling alley Thursday afternoon.Douglas County dispatch received a 911 call reporting a disturbance at 151 North 72nd Street inside the West Lanes Bowling Center Thursday, Sept. 9, 2021, at 1:33 p.m. OPD say the 911 caller said an autistic adult man, later identified as Eric Liao, 30, was out of control, biting his caregiver, and being held down by staff. Authorities say the 911 dispatcher could hear yelling in the background.Omaha police say an officer arrived at the bowling alley around 1:46 p.m. and observed a bowling alley staff member restraining Liao on the ground. According to witnesses at the scene, Liao was combative and had bitten people prior to being restrained.Police say the "initial responding officer handcuffed Liao and observed he was unresponsive."OPD says the officer immediately began administering CPR and was assisted by additional responding officers. Omaha Fire Department medics arrived on scene at approximately 1:51 p.m. and transported Liao to Methodist Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 2:31 p.m.Omaha Police have not provided any body-worn camera video, but says the initial review of the cameras showed the officers did not utilize force or attempt to hold Liao down.The Nebraska State Patrol and the Sarpy County Sheriff's Office are investigating, along with the Omaha police officer-involved investigations team.State law requires a Grand Jury investigation whenever there's an in-custody death.

Omaha police say man died in custody after a disturbance at a bowling alley Thursday afternoon.

Douglas County dispatch received a 911 call reporting a disturbance at 151 North 72nd Street inside the West Lanes Bowling Center Thursday, Sept. 9, 2021, at 1:33 p.m.

Advertisement

OPD say the 911 caller said an autistic adult man, later identified as Eric Liao, 30, was out of control, biting his caregiver, and being held down by staff.

Authorities say the 911 dispatcher could hear yelling in the background.

Omaha police say an officer arrived at the bowling alley around 1:46 p.m. and observed a bowling alley staff member restraining Liao on the ground.

According to witnesses at the scene, Liao was combative and had bitten people prior to being restrained.

Police say the "initial responding officer handcuffed Liao and observed he was unresponsive."

OPD says the officer immediately began administering CPR and was assisted by additional responding officers.

Omaha Fire Department medics arrived on scene at approximately 1:51 p.m. and transported Liao to Methodist Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 2:31 p.m.

Omaha Police have not provided any body-worn camera video, but says the initial review of the cameras showed the officers did not utilize force or attempt to hold Liao down.

The Nebraska State Patrol and the Sarpy County Sheriff's Office are investigating, along with the Omaha police officer-involved investigations team.

State law requires a Grand Jury investigation whenever there's an in-custody death.