FARMINGTON, Utah — Police say a man who was wanted on charges of aggravated assault and carjacking has died after being shot during a SWAT situation in Farmington.

Assistant Police Chief Devin Rogers with the Clearfield Police Department said officers shot the suspect, identified as 31-year-old Joseph Manard, who was airlifted to an area hospital where he was pronounced dead.

During the afternoon press conference, it was confirmed that a SWAT officer with the Salt Lake City Police Department used deadly force on the suspect.

Chief Mike Brown with SLCPD issued a statement on the incident Friday afternoon.

“Today, our officers found themselves in a highly volatile and dangerous situation. Based on the preliminary investigation, our officer saved the lives of several hostages and prevented further harm to those on scene. The courageous action of our officer is an example of the finest professionalism and bravery displayed by our members every day. I stand by and support our officer’s decision. These are traumatic situations for everyone involved. I have met with our officer. Our department is providing our officer with assistance and services. The Salt Lake City Police Department stands ready and appreciates the opportunity to support other law enforcement agencies.”

A shelter-in-place order that was issued earlier Friday was lifted before 11 a.m. and nearby Reading and Stewart elementary schools started school late Friday, according to Davis School District officials.

Police said Manard entered a home in a cul-de-sac on Tuscany Cove in Farmington and five people were taken hostage. Officers said those five people were later rescued from the home with only some minor injuries reported.

Original story continues below. This story will be updated.

FARMINGTON, Utah — Police are searching for a man who allegedly fired a gun into a car before stealing the vehicle in Davis County Friday morning.

Assistant Police Chief Devin Rogers with the Clearfield Police Department said officers are searching for 31-year-old Joseph Manard, who is considered armed and dangerous.

Rogers said Manard is wanted on previous assault charges stemming from incidents that happened earlier this week in Layton and a warrant was issued for his arrest on Wednesday.

UPDATE FROM POLICE: They’re looking for 32 y/o Joseph Manard – considered armed & dangerous. He’s wanted for aggravated assault & a car jacking overnight where a shot was fired.

He then led police on a chase & this lead to a chase & tried to ram a police car. #KSLTV pic.twitter.com/vNabhv0Eht — Tamara Vaifanua (@TamaraVaifanua) September 10, 2021

Clearfield police were dispatched to an aggravated assault around 1:30 a.m. Friday and pursued Manard until he abandoned his car in the Freeport Center area.

Rogers said Manard fled the area on foot before carjacking another vehicle. Manard allegedly displayed a firearm and fired one shot into the car after a struggle for the car with the female driver.

Manard then attempted to ram a police vehicle in Sunset and entered southbound Interstate 15, where state and county authorities attempted to stop him as he traveled toward Farmington.

Update from Farmington Police pic.twitter.com/6N4z71JfoA — Sean Moody (@SeanMoodyPhoto) September 10, 2021

Rogers said police spiked two of the stolen car’s tires, disabling it. The suspect abandoned that vehicle on I-15 near Glover Lane and fled on foot into a neighborhood east of the highway.

A shelter-in-place was issued for residents in the area who were asked to lock the doors to their homes and cars and report anything suspicious to police. Rogers said Manard is considered armed and dangerous and seems to be initiating confrontations with police.

The I-15 Frontage Road is closed between 1500 South and 1700 South in Farmington, which is right next to the border of Farmington and Centerville.

Northbound traffic is being diverted to Main Street via 2025 North in Centerville.

Farmington police said Manard was last seen wearing a black hat and a red shirt/hoodie.

Officials with the Davis County School District said Reading Elementary will start at 10:30 a.m. due to the incident and morning kindergarten has been canceled. Stewart Elementary will also start at 10:30 a.m.

No other schools are currently impacted by the search.