A hostage situation at a Smyrna apartment complex has been resolved and the hostage is safe, according to the Cobb County Police Department.

Police said the suspect, identified as 39-year-old Robert Parks, was shot and killed by a SWAT team member and the hostage is being treated for injuries at Kennestone Hospital. Police said the hostage was injured prior to police responding and his unspecified injuries are "severe" but not life-threatening. A Cobb County police spokesperson said the hostage was alert when transported to the hospital.

Police received multiple calls at around 9:45 a.m. about an armed man and gunshots possibly fired at Concord Crossing Apartments on 2935 Old Concord Road. Another caller also mentioned there could be a hostage in the apartment.

Cobb County SWAT is at the scene of a hostage situation in Smyrna where shots were fired. (FOX 5 Atlanta)

Officers responding to the call saw Parks "throwing things" off of a balcony next to another man bound by the wrists. Police said Parks and hostage retreated into the apartment after seeing police.

"When the suspect saw our officers, he retreated, grabbed the victim and they retreated back into the apartment," said Sgt. Wayne Delk with Cobb County Police Department.

A Cobb County SWAT team, the crisis negotiations team, and the crisis intervention team were activated. Delk said police noticed the suspect was armed.

"At some point while attempting to rescue the hostage one of the department's SWAT team members shot and killed the suspect," said Delk. "He did not survive. The hostage was rescued and is being treated at Kennestone Hospital for several different injuries he received, prior to us arriving."

Parks was pronounced dead at the scene.

"We brought everything we had to bear, not just a SWAT team but negotiators and a crisis intervention team that has helped in some situations with mental health issues," said Sgt. Delk.

Police at the scene of an officer-involved shooting in Smyrna. (Credit: Thomas Bradley) (FOX 5 Atlanta)

Niesha Banks was one of the residents evacuated from the building during the standoff.

"At about 11:30 they came up to my balcony with a ladder," said Banks, "wanting us to leave out the house. "

Cobb County SWAT is at the scene of a hostage situation in Smyrna where shots were fired. (FOX 5 Atlanta)

Elizabeth Moore feared the worst as she watched police officers swarm the Concord Crossing Apartments Monday morning.

"There were more cops and then more helicopters and I was scared," Moore told FOX 5's Deidra Dukes. "Is this a live shooter? What is it?"

Cobb County police said the incident is being investigated as an officer-involved shooting, meaning the Georgia Bureau of Investigation is involved and doing their own separate investigation.

Early in the investigation police couldn't say why the suspect assaulted the victim or how the two knew each other.

One police officer also sustained non-life-threatening injuries in the incident and has since been treated and released.

WATCH: FOX 5 Atlanta live news coverage

_____

Sign up for FOX 5 email alerts

Download the FOX 5 Atlanta app for breaking news and weather alerts.