Investigators say officers were called at 11:30 a.m. to a home on a tip

Independence police have identified a police officer critically wounded in a shooting Wednesday.Police said Officer Blaize Madrid-Evans, 22, was shot in the 2400 block of Northern Boulevard.Missouri State Highway Patrol Sgt. Andy Bell said police officers were called to a home at 11:30 a.m. and were met by a man who fired on the officers, hitting Madrid-Evans.The second officer returned fire and hit the suspect, who was pronounced dead at the scene.Madrid-Evans was taken to a hospital with serious injuries. The other Independence officer was not hurt.Bell said officers went to the address after a tip was received about someone possibly being wanted for something. He said investigators will be looking at the nature of that tip more closely.Independence police say Madrid-Evans began his career with the department when he entered the police academy in January. He graduated on July 8."After receiving his police commission, Officer Madrid-Evans entered IPD's Field Training Officer (FTO) program and is currently still in training," the police department said.The highway patrol said it will investigate the shooting.Independence Mayor Eileen Weir released a statement:"Every day the officers of the Independence Police Department put their lives on the line to protect the citizens of our community. We are ever hopeful that their daily interactions with the public will be peaceful so that they might return home to their families safely at the end of their shift. Today, that was not the case. At this time, our thoughts are with the officer, their family and the Independence Police Department. We know our citizens are already rallying behind the department and looking for ways to support them, but we encourage you to wait for further information."To all of our officers and first responders, please know that we support you and honor the sacrifice you make to keep our community safe. Thank you for your service."

Independence police have identified a police officer critically wounded in a shooting Wednesday.

Police said Officer Blaize Madrid-Evans, 22, was shot in the 2400 block of Northern Boulevard.



Advertisement

Missouri State Highway Patrol Sgt. Andy Bell said police officers were called to a home at 11:30 a.m. and were met by a man who fired on the officers, hitting Madrid-Evans.

The second officer returned fire and hit the suspect, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

Madrid-Evans was taken to a hospital with serious injuries. The other Independence officer was not hurt.

Bell said officers went to the address after a tip was received about someone possibly being wanted for something. He said investigators will be looking at the nature of that tip more closely.



Independence police say Madrid-Evans began his career with the department when he entered the police academy in January. He graduated on July 8.



"After receiving his police commission, Officer Madrid-Evans entered IPD's Field Training Officer (FTO) program and is currently still in training," the police department said.

The highway patrol said it will investigate the shooting.

Independence Mayor Eileen Weir released a statement:

"Every day the officers of the Independence Police Department put their lives on the line to protect the citizens of our community. We are ever hopeful that their daily interactions with the public will be peaceful so that they might return home to their families safely at the end of their shift. Today, that was not the case. At this time, our thoughts are with the officer, their family and the Independence Police Department. We know our citizens are already rallying behind the department and looking for ways to support them, but we encourage you to wait for further information.

"To all of our officers and first responders, please know that we support you and honor the sacrifice you make to keep our community safe. Thank you for your service."

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

Officer Involved Shooting

@ipdinfo

One IPD officer was shot & seriously injured



One suspect has been shot & pronounced deceased@MSHPTrooperDDCC was requested & will investigate the OIS



A briefing will be conducted at the Boost Mobile parking lot in approx 15min pic.twitter.com/wxhMVe2EPR — MSHP Troop A (@MSHPTrooperA) September 15, 2021

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.