UPDATE (Sept 16, 2021): New York State Police on Thursday identified the man who police say was fatally shot by his own gun this week during a struggle with members of the U.S. Marshals' Fugitive Task Force as 24-year-old Dedrick J. James.

Troopers also said the fatal encounter occurred at 6 Vinewood Place in Rochester as members of the task force attempted to serve an arrest warrant on James. Troopers said that James "attempted to flee back into the residence" and "physically struggled" with members of the task force. According to State Police, one round from James' loaded handgun was fired during the struggle and struck James in the upper body.

----

ORIGINAL STORY (Sept, 15, 2021): A man was fatally shot by his own gun during a struggle with members of the U.S Marshals' task force Wednesday morning, according to the U.S. Marshals Service

Marshal Charles Salina said that investigators with the Marshal's Fugitive Task Force went to a home on Vinewood Place, near Dr. Samuel McCree Way, around 10:30 a.m. to arrest a man wanted out of Wayne County.

As officers tried to apprehend the man, the man pulled out a gun. A struggle followed and one shot from the man's gun was fired, killing the man, Salina said.

Salina said that no law enforcement officers fired their weapons during the incident.

Rochester police, New York State Police and the state Attorney General's Office are investigating the fatal encounter, he said. The Marshals' task force includes members of the U.S Marshals Service, Rochester Police Department, State Police and Monroe County Sheriff's Office.

The man, whose name was not released, was wanted on a second-degree assault charge involving a child, Salina said. A relative of the man was also inside the house.

Vinewood Place is a block-long residential road in southwest Rochester, two block east of Jefferson Avenue.

Contact Victoria Freile at vfreile@gannett.com. Follow her on Twitter @vfreile and Instagram @vfreile. This coverage is only possible with support from our readers.