A quiet West Ashley neighborhood erupted in gunfire the morning of Sept. 18, leading to an exchange that left one resident dead.

Charleston County Sheriff's deputies were dispatched about 7:30 a.m. after neighbors reported a man was firing a gun in the 2500 block of Mona Avenue, located off Glendale Drive near Old St. Andrew's Parish Church, according to Capt. Roger Antonio.

Gunfire struck houses and vehicles in the neighborhood before deputies arrived at the scene, the captain said. The man exchanged gunfire with arriving deputies, shooting the side mirror of a deputy's squad car before he was shot and incapacitated, Antonio said.

The man was transported to a hospital and pronounced dead, Antonio said.

Antonio said no one else was injured in the shooting.

"We believe there is no further threat in this neighborhood," he said.

A firearm and several spent shell casings were located at the man's residence at 2567 Mona Avenue, according to a press release from the sheriff's office.

State Law Enforcement Division has been called in to investigate the shooting. Per department protocol, the deputy involved in the shooting has been placed on administrative leave, Antonio said.

Law enforcement officers from multiple agencies blocked off traffic in the neighborhood into the afternoon; a forensic team catalogued evidence as officers canvassed the neighborhood.

Neighbors reported hearing intermittent gunfire for about 10 to 15 minutes before deputies arrived at the scene.

Kristine Shirley, who has lived in the neighborhood for 23 years, said she initially thought it was a nail gun. She let her dogs out into the backyard and stood on her patio, unaware of the danger.

Shirley said it was fortunate the dogs did not dawdle in the yard that morning.

Officials have not yet identified the deceased man, but did confirm he was a resident in the neighborhood.

Antonio said the man's wife was at the scene during the shooting, but she was not injured. Antonio confirmed deputies had previously been dispatched to the residence for a domestic disturbance call, but did not provide details.

SLED spokesman Tommy Crosby said in a press release the agency's goal is to conduct a "thorough, independent criminal investigation" in a timely manner.

Information gathered at the scene will be summarized in a case file report and submitted to prosecutors to determine whether to file charges against the deputy.

The Sept. 18 shooting was the 29th officer-involved shooting in South Carolina in 2021, Crosby said. In 2020, there were 49 officer-involved shootings in the state, including three involving the Charleston County Sheriff's Office.