NASHVILLE, Tenn. (WTVF) — An officer-involved shooting left one man dead Saturday night at the Days Inn motel on Percy Priest Drive in Nashville.

Metro Nashville Police Department spokesperson Don Aaron said Adrian Cameron, 47, died. He was wanted for a state parole violation and for questioning in a homicide case. Police wanted to know more details from Cameron concerning the murder of Josh Evans. Now his son, Adrian Cameron II, is wanted for Evans' murder.

BREAKING: A Juv Court arrest order just issued charges Adrian Cameron II, 16, with the shooting death of Josh Evans, 50, whose body was found in the Cumberland River 9/13. Efforts continue to bring Cameron into custody. His father was fatally shot Sat after firing on MNPD SWAT. pic.twitter.com/6HsoNrQNLF — Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) September 20, 2021

Evans' body surfaced in the Cumberland River last week after it was spotted by a person on a tugboat.

Evans, of Lebanon, was fatally shot. "The investigation showed Cameron had significant information about the homicide, had threatened witnesses in the case, and was known to be armed," Aaron said.

Metro Nashville Police Department Homicide victim Josh Evans

Aaron said after a threat assessment, homicide detectives requested assistance from the SWAT team. "Officers made repeated announcements for him to surrender," Aaron said. "After a woman came out of the motel room and was escorted away from officers, Cameron emerged."

With an AR-15 gun, Cameron fired shots at the SWAT officers which was captured on surveillance video. According to police, officers returned fire. Emergency personnel rushed Cameron to a local hospital, where he died.

Metro Nashville Police Department Adrian Cameron Sr.

Body camera footage of the shooting was released by Metro Police early Sunday morning. The officers were identified as Lt. Bob Doke, Lt. Jeff Sanders, and Sgt. Josh Black. Aaron said, "The three swat officers involved are all supervisors."

A man wanted on a state parole violation warrant, and also for questioning in a homicide case, was fatally wounded at a Nashville motel Saturday night after he opened fire on MNPD SWAT officers. More details here: https://t.co/o3ZtxnjKqL — Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) September 19, 2021

The woman who left Cameron's room was bit by a K-9 officer while surrendering to police. A police spokesperson said it was an accident, and will be reviewed.

A man who stays at a hotel nearby did not want to be identified. He said it sounded like "Iraq" and noted, "Someone could of got hurt, I mean like they was shooting!" Police confirmed that no one else was hurt.

The TBI and the Davidson County District Attorney's Office will also look into the shooting. Per the department's policy, MNPD will also conclude an administrative review. "The investigation is in its early stages, and will take time to complete," Aaron said.