Sheriff Brian Schenck has provided more information on the incident in the city of Auburn on Tuesday that left one person dead. A state probe is underway into the incident, as it involved law enforcement officers returning fire on a person inside a residence on Wheeler Street after shots were fired at first responders.

At 11:29 a.m., the Cayuga County 911 Center received report of shots fired in the area of 12 Wheeler Street in the City of Auburn. Officers with the Auburn Police Department immediately responded to the residence.

Upon arrival, they were met with gunfire coming from an upstairs window of the residence located at 12 Wheeler Street and officers were forced to return fire. After the exchange a perimeter was established around the home to secure the location.

Members of the Cayuga County Sheriff’s Office, New York State Police, and Onondaga County Sheriff’s Office responded to the incident to assist the Auburn Police Department. In the hours that followed, attempts were made to communicate with anyone located in the home with no results. At approximately 3:00 p.m. entry was made into the residence by the Auburn Police Department’s Emergency Response Team. They found a single occupant in an upstairs bedroom that was confirmed to be deceased.

The deceased individual has been identified as Brandi R. Baida, 30, of 12 Wheeler Street- where the incident unfolded. Schenck said it appears that Baida died as a result of a gunshot wound. An autopsy will be conducted today by the Onondaga County Medical Examiner’s Office to determine the exact cause of death.

This investigation is ongoing and being conducted by members of the Cayuga County Sheriff’s Office along with the NY State Police and members of the New York Attorney General’s Office of Special Investigations. The Cayuga County District Attorney’s Office is also assisting.

Anyone with information related to the case is asked to call Detective Sergeant Rob Franklin at 315-253-1132. Information can also be submitted via our website at www.CayugaSheriff.com. Click on the “Send a Tip” tab. No further details will be released at this time due to the ongoing investigation.

Original Report: One dead after exchange of gunfire with police at Auburn home

One person was killed after an exchange of gunfire with police at an Auburn city home Tuesday morning.

Multiple agencies were called to Wheeler Street a little before 11:30 a.m. after neighbors reported shots fired.

In a press release, the Auburn Police Department says they were met with gunfire which appeared to be coming from the residence.

“Officers were forced to return fire as they were establishing a perimeter around the location,” the release added.

Several hours after attempting to make contact with anyone inside — police entered, but did not provide any additional information.

The identity of the person who was killed in that gunfire was not identified. The investigation is ongoing and being conducted by both the Cayuga County Sheriff’s Office and New York State Police.

The state Attorney General’s Office of Special Investigation is also going to conduct an investigation, according to police.

Clark Street was reopened around 4 p.m., according to first responders, who said that residents did not need to shelter in place any longer. They were asked to remain indoors for several hours as the incident unfolded.

Anyone with information that could help with the investigation is asked to call 315-253-1132.