UPDATE: The man killed in the motorcycle crash has been identified as 30-year-old Rodney Drake Key of Center Point. The Jefferson County coroner released the following statement:"The decedent was the lone driver occupant of a 2005 Suzuki GSXR600 motorcycle traveling North on Center Point Parkway. According to the Alabama State Troopers the Trussville Police was in pursuit of the motorcycle(decedent). The Trussville Police ended the pursuit due to extreme high speed of the motorcycle. According to the Alabama State Troopers at some point later the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office observed the motorcycle(decedent) traveling at a high rate of speed Northbound on Center Point Parkway. The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office terminated their pursuit due to the extreme high speed of the motorcycle(decedent). According to the Alabama State Troopers at approximately 1125 hours the motorcycle(decedent) crashed into an Infiniti QX 80 at the intersection of Center Point Parkway and 23rd Avenue. The Alabama State Troopers is investigating the cause and circumstances surrounding the motor vehicle accident."—The Jefferson County Sheriff's Office says a chase involving a motorcycle in Trussville ended with a deadly crash in Center Point. Watch the video above to learn more.Authorities said the suspect on the motorcycle ran a red light on Center Point Parkway at 23rd Avenue NE and collided with an SUV. The suspect, who hasn't been identified, was pronounced dead at the scene.The sheriff's office said Trussville police had lost sight of him before the crash. A sheriff's office spokesperson said they do not believe deputies or officers were still in pursuit at the time of the collision.Authorities said they found what appeared to be narcotics at the scene and a gun on the man who was killed.The driver of the SUV was not hurt, according to the sheriff's office.It's unclear what prompted the pursuit in Trussville.Get the WVTM 13 app for the latest updates on this developing story.STREAM THE SCENE——

UPDATE: The man killed in the motorcycle crash has been identified as 30-year-old Rodney Drake Key of Center Point.

The Jefferson County coroner released the following statement:

Advertisement

"The decedent was the lone driver occupant of a 2005 Suzuki GSXR600 motorcycle traveling North on Center Point Parkway. According to the Alabama State Troopers the Trussville Police was in pursuit of the motorcycle(decedent). The Trussville Police ended the pursuit due to extreme high speed of the motorcycle. According to the Alabama State Troopers at some point later the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office observed the motorcycle(decedent) traveling at a high rate of speed Northbound on Center Point Parkway. The Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office terminated their pursuit due to the extreme high speed of the motorcycle(decedent). According to the Alabama State Troopers at approximately 1125 hours the motorcycle(decedent) crashed into an Infiniti QX 80 at the intersection of Center Point Parkway and 23rd Avenue. The Alabama State Troopers is investigating the cause and circumstances surrounding the motor vehicle accident."

—

The Jefferson County Sheriff's Office says a chase involving a motorcycle in Trussville ended with a deadly crash in Center Point. Watch the video above to learn more.

Authorities said the suspect on the motorcycle ran a red light on Center Point Parkway at 23rd Avenue NE and collided with an SUV. The suspect, who hasn't been identified, was pronounced dead at the scene.

The sheriff's office said Trussville police had lost sight of him before the crash. A sheriff's office spokesperson said they do not believe deputies or officers were still in pursuit at the time of the collision.

Authorities said they found what appeared to be narcotics at the scene and a gun on the man who was killed.

The driver of the SUV was not hurt, according to the sheriff's office.

It's unclear what prompted the pursuit in Trussville.

Get the WVTM 13 app for the latest updates on this developing story.

STREAM THE SCENE

—

This content is imported from Facebook. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

—