This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

An allegedly armed man was shot and killed by the Huntington Beach Police Department on the beach Saturday afternoon, police said.

The shooting took place at about 3:15 p.m. after officers received reports about a man with a gun at Huntington City Beach, police said in a press release.

Video of the incident shows a man, whom the Orange County Sheriff’s Department later identified as Ronnie Andrew Garcia, 43, holding what appears to be a weapon under a piece of clothing while officers demand he drop it.

The OCSD did not release Garcia’s city of residence.

When Garcia did not comply, officers fired a few shots, at least one of which struck him in his abdomen, knocking him to the ground, the video shows.

While Garcia was on the ground, he frantically reached for the piece of clothing that appeared to be hiding a weapon, and officers fired multiple additional rounds, appearing to hit Garcia several times, the video shows.

First aid was administered at the beach and Garcia was taken to a local hospital, where he was pronounced dead, police said.

A gun was found at the scene, added Huntington Beach spokesperson Jennifer Carey.

Carey also expressed gratefulness that the U.S. Open of Surfing, which is being held on the beach, had concluded for the day.

“The crowds, the athletes had kind of dispersed,” Carey said. “That was one great thing about the timing of it. Additionally, because of the U.S. Open, we had a lot of extra officers on hand. Due to that, our officers were able to get to the call much more quickly and much more effectively.”

The Orange County Sheriff’s Department is leading the investigation. Anyone with information is asked to call 1-855-TIP-OCCS.

#OCSDPIO: The Coroner’s Division has identified the decedent from the September 25 officer involved shooting in Huntington Beach as Ronnie Andrew Garcia, 43, unknown city of residence. — OC Sheriff, CA (@OCSheriff) September 27, 2021

Editor’s note: This story initially included an incorrect spelling for Huntington Beach. The story has been updated with the correct spelling.