Deputies received a call for a suspicious person outside of a convenience store, which led to a short pursuit around 8 a.m. on Potranco Road.

BEXAR COUNTY, Texas — UPDATE: On Oct. 12, the Bexar County Sheriff's Office identified Deputy Joseph Trevino as being the deputy who shot and killed Nicholas Norris. BCSO said the deputy has been with the agency for nine years.

Norris was identified as the 38-year-old man who was shot and killed by a deputy in west Bexar County Thursday morning, the BCSO said. Deputies received a call for a suspicious person outside of a convenience store, which led to a short pursuit around 8 a.m.

The Bexar County Sheriff’s Office is currently handling an officer involved shooting at the intersection of Potranco Rd... Posted by Bexar County Sheriff's Office on Thursday, September 30, 2021

A deputy who had stopped at the store to take a break was told by a store clerk that the man, later identified as Norris, was outside who had been scaring customers over the past few days, according to Sheriff Javier Salazar. That's when the deputy went to talk to Norris; words were exchanged and he took off at a high rate of speed, Salazar said.

There was a pursuit that a supervisor called off, he said. A short time later, an off-duty lieutenant saw much of it occur. One of the deputies put on the radio that Norris was driving in circles and driving erratically on Potranco Road. The deputies reengaged because it was rush hour and there were school buses traveling in the area, Salazar said.

"It appears there was some sort of a struggle and one of the deputies fired a shot at the suspect vehicle. The suspect was struck once in the left side," he said.

"We do have a video from social media that a neighbor shot and posted to social media that shows the suspect driving with the deputy hanging out – being dragged in essence."

Salazar said investigators are trying to figure out whether the video was taken before the suspect was shot or after. He said Norris was violent despite his gunshot wound, which deputies tried to pack, and although EMS got him under control, he died either on the way to the hospital or once he arrived.

The deputy who killed the suspect is an eight-year BCSO veteran. He has been placed on administrative leave as part of the agency's protocol.

Salazar said BCSO has had contact with Norris several times over the past few weeks due to mental health issues. He expressed frustration about why he was out and about. Several residents also shared doorbell camera video with BCSO, saying they had seen the suspect trying to get into their homes.