COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KKTV) - An officer trying to stop a shoplifter was forced to shoot when the suspect fired at him during the confrontation Sunday.

The CSPD officer involved was identified Friday as Officer Chase Gardner. Officer Gardner has been employed as a police officer with the Colorado Springs police department since August 2013 and is currently assigned to the Falcon Division.

The officer was unhurt, but the Colorado Springs Police Department confirms the suspect died at the hospital.

According to a spokesperson for CSPD, the officer had tried to stop the man from exiting the East Platte Walmart just before 4 p.m.

“The male suspect took off running through the parking lot of Walmart, and the CSPD officer gave chase and gave commands to stop,” said Sgt. Jason Newton.

The suspect darted down nearby Pine Tree Square and hid behind a car in another business parking lot.

“The CSPD officer located the male suspect, gave the suspect commands, which is suspect did not comply. The CSPD officer was able to deploy their Taser, which at this time the effectiveness is still being investigated,” Newton said. “Once a Taser was deployed, the suspect was actually able to pull a handgun and shoot off at least one round. In response, the CSPD officer pulled their duty weapon and fired at least one round, striking the suspect.”

Police then provided life-saving measures until first responders could transport the suspect to the hospital. He was pronounced dead shortly after arrival.

“Our officers are always going to try to make verbal contact first, which was attempted, and a male suspect decided to run away. Officers did give command to stop, and the suspect did not comply and was hiding. But we’re always going to try to use the least amount as a force as possible, that’s why the Taser was deployed after verbal commands were given. Unfortunately, that wasn’t effective and the male was able to pull a gun and shoot, and our officers had to respond accordingly,” Newton said.

Per state law, which requires an outside agency to investigate law enforce shootings, the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office will now take over the investigation.

The officer involved was not injured and has been placed on routine administrative leave.

The suspect was identified as David Jacques Jr. According to online court records, the suspect was on probation for assault charges and had been arrested for burglary charges earlier this year.

HAPPENING NOW ‼️



There has been an officer involved shooting in the 3200 block of E. Platte Ave.



PIO Newton is en route 45 min. Media, please stage at 3295 E. Platte Ave. — Colorado Springs Police Department (@CSPDPIO) October 3, 2021

Copyright 2021 KKTV. All rights reserved.