After a California Highway Patrol officer checked on a minivan parked on a right shoulder of the interchange of the I-710 and I-105 freeways during the morning rush hour on Tuesday, Oct. 5, the armed driver, wanted for a recent murder, was shot and killed, authorities said.

The shooting happened after an officer approached the vehicle and saw the man had a gun, said Officer Jose Barrios, a CHP spokesman.

It was not disclosed if the CHP officer fired, a sheriff’s deputy did or both responding agencies shot at the suspect.

The shooting did not erupt immediately, but 40 minutes after the the CHP officer arrived at 8 a.m.

At one point, the suspect stood on the roadway with an apparent pistol in his hands. The shooting took place on the westbound I-105 Freeway at the I-710 in Lynwood, the Sheriff’s Department said.

What exactly led up to the shooting was not clear, Barrios said. But Fox11 video shows the suspect shooting toward officers who then fired.

No one else was injured in the shooting, said Deputy Eva Jimenez, a sheriff’s spokeswoman.

The suspect was identified as Jesse Medrano, 35, accused of shooting and killing a relative, Ruben Marrufo, 61, during a family dispute on Sunday morning in the 400 block of East 92nd Street in Los Angeles, Los Angeles police said. He also shot and injured two others, they said.

Medrano carjacked a 1999 Toyota Sienna, police said, which matched the description of the vehicle Medrano was found next to during Tuesday morning’s shooting.

Medrano was taken to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, which was assisting in the investigation.

The confrontation prompted officials to closed down parts of both freeways, snarling traffic.

Alex Lohman, commuting from Los Alamitos to Monterey Park, was stuck in standstill traffic for an hour as the incident unfolded. She was several cars behind the front line, which she initially thought was from a routine traffic break.

“The first officer who did the stop, I realized what was happening when he got behind his car door and held his hands out (with his gun),” Lohman said. “That’s when I called my boss and said I think I’m stuck in something intense.”

About 10 CHP vehicles later came to the scene, she said. Eventually, Lohman said, she heard approximately 10 gunshots ring out.

Eventually, CHP officers had Lohman and other motorists back up their vehicles to get off of the freeway via the nearest off-ramp. Lohman said she was impressed at how quickly they redirected traffic.