A suspect who allegedly got into a wild Brooklyn gunfight with a US Park Police officer — which left one man dead and three people wounded, including the cop — was charged Friday in the September melee, according to court documents.

John Shortt was charged with assaulting the officer with a deadly weapon in Brooklyn federal court for the early-morning shootout outside a nightclub in East Flatbush on Sept. 18.

Shortt allegedly led a four-person crew as they attempted to rob the unidentified officer and a woman he was with after the pair had left a nightclub on Utica Avenue near Farragut Road, the complaint states.

Shortt and an accomplice, who was wearing a balaclava, initially approached the officer and the woman at about 3:20 a.m. and pointed a handgun at him, according the complaint.

John Shortt and an accomplice are seen moments before the shooting exiting the back seat of a blue BMW sedan. Court documents

The officer and other victim are circled in green. John Shortt is circled in red with his hands outstretched, holding a firearm, according to court documents. Court documents

The cop immediately pushed the woman he was with out of the way, drew his own gun, and began firing at the would-be robbers.

The officer shot Shortt at least once during the firefight.

At the same time, two apparent accomplices of Shortt, later identified as Tyshawn Whidbee and Joshua Cooper, approached the officer and the woman from another direction, the complaint states.

Whidbee pulled a gun and began firing at the cop and woman, shooting both of them, according to the court documents.

The wounded officer chased both Whidbee and Cooper around the corner, where a firefight among them ensued.

The wounded officer chased both Whidbee and Cooper around the corner, where a firefight among them ensued. Court documents

A suspect who allegedly got into a wild Brooklyn gunfight with a US Park Police officer was charged Friday in the September incident. Court documents

The officer was hit a number of times and Cooper was killed in the gunfight, authorities said.

Immediately after the melee, Shortt hobbled to a nearby gas station, where he met with two other accomplices. Medics were called, and they transported him to Kings County Hospital, where he was treated for multiple gunshot wounds.

The officer and the woman he was with were also treated at local hospitals for their wounds, but survived the shooting.

Attorney information for Shortt was not immediately available.