LANCASTER COUNTY, S.C. (WBTV) - A man is dead while a deputy is in the hospital after an officer-involved shooting in Lancaster County Friday evening. Agents from the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division are investigating the incident.

Officials say around 6 p.m. officers of the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Office were doing a welfare check on Derrick Clinton II, 27, a resident of The Court at Redstone apartments on Fast Lane in Indian Land.

Deputies say Clinton had been reported missing by family members.

Officers were unable to get anyone to the door and had obtained a search warrant to enter the apartment. Deputies say officers entered without force.

Deputies say Clinton was inside and fired upon the officers and struck a deputy. A deputy returned fire striking the subject, according to officials.

#BREAKING Officials from the Lancaster County Sheriff's Office tell us a deputy from the sheriff's office has been shot - very limited information right now. This is near The Court at Redstone apartment complex in Indian Land. Photo from @JohnSparksNews @WBTV_News pic.twitter.com/fIR8ZKTVlu — Alex Giles WBTV (@AlexGilesNews) October 8, 2021

Other officers rendered aid to the deputy and to Clinton. Lancaster County Emergency Medical Services personnel responded.

The injured deputy was taken to a nearby medical facility. He was shot in the lower body and received serious injuries but is expected to recover. Clinton died at the scene, deputies say.

Agents of the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) responded to the scene and will investigate the incident.

“This routine welfare check turned very violent very quickly,” said Sheriff Barry Faile. “We are praying for our officer and believe he will recover. We are sorry for the loss of the life of the subject. SLED will conduct a thorough investigation to determine all the facts and circumstances of this incident. We will defer to SLED for the release of additional information.”

Officials say SLED conducts law enforcement officer-involved shooting (OIS) investigations at the request of the agency involved in the incident.

“When requested to investigate an OIS, SLED’s goal is to conduct a thorough, independent criminal investigation as timely as is possible under the circumstances. SLED agents will conduct interviews with all potential witnesses in this matter. Further, SLED will collect all relevant evidence and will forensically test such evidence as needed,” a press release read,

Officials say information gathered in the SLED investigation of the incident will be summarized in a case file report to be submitted to prosecutors.

This is an ongoing investigation. Officials say no other information about the case will be disclosed by SLED at this time. SLED will defer to the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Office for any information about their deputy.

Anyone with information about this or any other case should call the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Office at 803-283-3388 or contact Midlands Crimestoppers in one of the following ways: dial 888-CRIME-SC (888-274-6372), log onto www.midlandscrimestoppers.com and click on the “Submit a Tip” tab, or download the P3 Tips App for Apple or Android devices.

The incident in Lancaster County was the 30th officer-involved shooting in South Carolina in 2021. In 2020, there were 49 officer-involved shootings in South Carolina; one involved the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Office.

Copyright 2021 WBTV. All rights reserved.