A man shot his girlfriend to death at her east Allentown apartment Friday morning, telling a witness, “She is gone, I killed her.” He then fled to his Schuylkill County home, where he fatally shot himself after an hours-long standoff with police, according to reports.

Schuylkill County Coroner Dr. David J. Moylan III on Saturday told the Hazleton Standard-Speaker that the man involved in the standoff was pronounced dead by Deputy Coroner David Truskowsky at St. Luke’s Hospital-Miners Mills Campus in Coaldale. A post-mortem CT scan to determine the cause of death is set for noon Sunday,

Sources at the scene said Richard Lee Sweet shot himself at the standoff. This occurred after he had shot Joan Cressman, 46, in the head, between 9 and 9:49 a.m. Friday in the 300 block of North Oswego Street in Allentown, and then fled in his vehicle, escaping a Palmerton police chase, police said in an affidavit.

Sweet made it to his home in the 100 block of Fisher Avenue in Coaldale, approximately a block off Route 209, where police talked to him over a loudspeaker telling him repeatedly to surrender and that they could get him help, but he reportedly refused. A witness said Sweet told police, “It was too late for that.”

Lansford police chief Jack Soberick told the Hazleton Standard-Speaker that Sweet was in his home for hours after driving through Carbon County that morning passing through checkpoints. Officers from multiple departments followed him back to his home.

Police from Carbon and Schuylkill counties surrounded the house with Pennsylvania State Police, telling residents to seek shelter in their homes. Multiple streets were blocked until about 4 p.m. when it was learned that Sweet had shot himself.

The Lehigh County Coroner’s Office ruled Cressman’s death a homicide and said an autopsy is scheduled for Monday to determine the cause of death.

A witness told police an aggravated Sweet arrived at Cressman’s home shortly after 9 a.m., approached her and said, “You’re acting funny!,” the affidavit states.

Frank Virnelson, who lives a few doors down from the shooting scene, said his housekeeper had been talking to Cressman when Sweet arrived to pick up items from the home and started an argument.

The witness told police Sweet and Cressman entered her apartment and that a muffled gunshot was heard moments later, according to the affidavit. Virnelson said his housekeeper heard that gunshot after returning to his home.

The witness reported seeing Sweet drive away quickly in a black Mazda afterward, according to the affidavit.

Another witness told police he went to Cressman’s apartment after hearing the gunshot and saw Sweet standing over Cressman, trying to pull her into the apartment, the affidavit states. The witness said he asked Sweet, “Is she okay?,” and that Sweet replied, “She is gone, I killed her!”

Police responded at 9:49 a.m. and saw Cressman with a gunshot wound to her head inside the front door. The Coroner’s Office later arrived and pronounced Cressman dead at 11 a.m.

“The next thing I know, the police are at my house,” Virnelson said. “This is tragic.”

Police put out a description of Sweet’s vehicle.

At 11:17 a.m. Palmerton police chased and tried stopping Sweet’s vehicle, the affidavit states. He later was seen fleeing from his vehicle into his Coaldale home.

Virnelson said Cressman “had a heart of gold” and that Sweet came from the Tamaqua area.

“Until now, he seemed like a nice guy,” Virnelson said.

Neighbor Todd Hodge, however, said Sweet was possessive and “hated” anyone who paid attention to the victim.

“We always warned her, ‘He’s going to get you,'” Hodge said.

According to other residents, Cressman was a crossing guard for an area school district and doted on her dog, a Yorkie named Brownie.

“She was always the friendliest person,” neighbor Dain Phillip said. “She would come out in the morning and just say ‘Hey, how you doing, how are things?’ Nicest lady you ever knew.”

Phillip put his head in his hands and quietly said “Oh, Lord,” several times.

“You just never see cops here,” he said. “It’s a friendly place.”