State police identified a man fatally shot by a Davenport police officer Wednesday afternoon.

At around 3:37 p.m. Wednesday, Bobby Jo Klum, 37, of Scott County was allegedly seen walking with a handgun to his head near the intersection of 8th and Iowa streets, according to a Thursday news release from the Iowa Department of Public Safety.

Authorities described him as a "wanted and armed individual," but did not disclose why Klum was wanted by law enforcement.

According to police, two less-lethal rounds were discharged at Klum before he was fatally shot.

"Officers responded and attempted to deescalate the situation. The subject refused to comply with officers’ commands and discharged two less-lethal rounds with allegedly no effect," wrote Richard Rahn, Special Agent in Charge for the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation.

"One police officer discharged his duty firearm, striking the subject in the mid-torso," Rahn continued.

Klum was pronounced dead at a local hospital. An autopsy by the state medical examiner has been scheduled, according to the release.

Officials say the identity of the officer who fatally shot Klum is being withheld until he's been interviewed by the division.

Social media video sheds some light on Davenport police shooting

A video of the incident posted to Facebook, and reviewed by the Des Moines Register, shows Klum with what appears to be a handgun to his head walking away from police as officers yell "get out of the street," "get out of here," "go inside" and "go to your house."

In the video, Klum continues walking and, after he's out of the frame, two gunshots can be heard. The woman recording the video assumes the shots are of rubber bullets. A few moments later, Klum is back in the video's frame and is still walking away from police before a final gunshot rings out.

At that point, an officer is shown rushing to Klum and the video ends.

“Uniformed officers attempted to take the subject into custody," Davenport police wrote in their initial news release Wednesday. "The armed subject refused to comply and continued to ignore officer’s commands, at which time an officer discharged their firearm.”

Investigators did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

More:More details released about the shooting of woman by a Des Moines police officer

Davenport police shooting one of three shootings by Iowa police officers since Oct. 3

Wednesday's shooting was the third time state investigators have been called on to investigate a police shooting in Iowa since Oct. 3.

On Oct. 5, a Des Moines police officer shot a woman downtown, and on Oct. 3, a man was shot by a Mason City police officer.

The shooting victim in Des Moines has not been criminally charged, but police have claimed she was threatening a police officer and armed with a knife.

In Mason City, police allege a man had shot and killed someone at the Happy Donkey Bar. The man allegedly pointed his gun at a Mason City officer when he was shot.

Special agents of the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation have taken over the Davenport and Mason City investigations. They are “assisting” the Des Moines Police Department with its investigation, according to investigators.

Staff writer Andrea Sahouri contributed to this report.

Philip Joens covers breaking news for The Des Moines Register. He can be reached at 515-443-3347 at pjoens@registermedia.com or on Twitter @Philip_Joens.