An Arkansas man knifed a woman to death in his home on Sunday, bludgeoned their 15-year-old son to death with a brick then sliced a responding officer's throat before police shot him dead.

Police were responding to a call at 2819 Tilles Avenue, Fort Smith when they found 40-year-old Christopher 'Cason' Conner bludgeoning his 15-year-old son with a brick in the middle of the street.

Julie Moore, 42, the child's mother, was found dead inside with multiple stab wounds. The relationship between Moore and Conner, and whether or not they lived together in the house, is unclear.

A five-year-old was found alive and safe inside the home, and has since been released to other family members.

Fort Smith Chief Danny Baker said he '[had] no doubt that our officer's swift actions saved [that] young child's life.'

Police were responding to a call at 2819 Tilles Avenue, Fort Smith when they found 40-year-old Christopher 'Cason' Conner (pictured) bludgeoning his 15-year-old son with a brick in the middle of the street

Julie Moore, 42 (pictured) was found dead with multiple stab wounds

At a Sunday press conference, Baker said that the 911 caller who alerted dispatchers to the 'extremely violent attack' said they 'heard yelling and screaming and came outside to see a white male with no shirt assaulting a person on the ground.'

Baker said that the unnamed responding police officer appeared to convince Conner to stop battering his son. When the officer attempted to restrain the man, however, he brandished a knife and 'sliced the officer's throat and neck.'

Then, the officer shot at Conner twice, 'killing him and ending the threat.'

The officer, who Baker said had been with the department for 16 months, required emergency surgery after the attack for 'severe lacerations' to his face and neck - he is now in stable condition.

The 15-year-old was pronounced dead at the hospital - police said he had 'multiple stab wounds' along with blunt force trauma.

Both the injured officer and another member of the department who was at the scene have been placed on paid leave while Arkansas State Police conduct an investigation into the officer-involved shooting.

After an officer shot Christofer Conner dead, the body of Julie Moore was found inside this home on 2819 Tilles Avenue

Conner (pictured far right with Moore) was arrested for domestic battery in the third degree on July 22 this year, according to Sebastian County documents - the Sebastian County Sheriff's Department could not be reached by Dailymail.com at press time

Police said that, along with Moore's brutalized body, a five-year-old was found inside the house on 2819 Tilles Avenue - he was released to other family members, and Fort Smith Chief Danny Baker said he '[had] no doubt that our officer's swift actions saved [that] young child's life.' Pictured is the police crime scene outside of the house, where Conner beat his 15-year-old son to death with a brick

Police said they were called to a home in Fort Smith to find 40-year-old Christofer 'Cason' Conner (pictured) bludgeoning his 15-year-old son with a brick in the middle of Tilles Avenue

On July 20, two days before the arrest, Conner made his Facebook profile photo a screenshot of his phone's screen after a call between him and Moore had been disconnected

Conner was arrested for domestic battery in the third degree on July 22 this year, according to Sebastian County documents - the Sebastian County Sheriff's Department could not be reached by Dailymail.com at press time.

On July 20, two days before the arrest, Conner made his Facebook profile photo a screenshot of his phone's screen after a call between him and Moore had been disconnected.

'[Conner and Moore] had a history together for sure,' Mitchell told Dailymail.com. 'We have more than one [domestic violence] call out there.'

The Arkansas State Police Department, who is handling the case now that there is an investigation into the officer's use of deadly force, did not return DailyMail.com's inquiries regarding a potential motive for the slaying.

'When unimaginable tragedies like this happen, we’re all left scared, angry, frustrated, sometimes hopeless,' Chief Baker said at the press conference.

'It hurts us as much as it does each of you when an outcome like this is unavoidable.'