SPRINGFIELD, Mo. (KY3) - A man shot by officers during a standoff on Sunday in Springfield died from his injuries.

Douglas Knakmuhs, 40, died at a Springfield hospital. He was wanted on several warrants and for questioning in a recent shooting investigation.

The investigation started shortly after a situation at 1 p.m. Sunday. Police say an officer approached Knakmuhs at the Kum & Go gas station on South Kansas Expressway and College Street. Investigators say Knakmuhs fired shots at the officer and took off toward Lexington Avenue. Investigators say a bullet hit the officer’s pants. The officer did not suffer any injuries. In the shootout, investigators say the officer lost sight of Knakmuhs.

Moments later, police say a resident in the 1800 block of West Elm Street called officers to inform them a man broke into her home and was holding her husband at gunpoint. After that call, at least 25 police and SWAT team cars responded to the situation around South Lexington Street. SWAT team officers entered the house to find Knakmuhs fighting with the homeowner over a gun. That is when the officer fired a shot, hitting Knakmuhs. The man inside the home did not suffer any injuries.

The officer had stopped Knakmuhs because he recognized him as a suspect in a drive-by shooting. Police also wanted him for a drug-related parole violation. The drive-by shooting happened on North Kansas Expressway on October 11 when Jennifer Ariaz, a mother of two, says Knakmuhs showed up at her home wanting to confront a man who rented out her garage. He was not there but Ariaz said Knakmuhs was adamant in finding the man because “it was his day of reckoning.”

“He showed up ranting, raving and screaming out here,” Ariaz recalled. “I came outside because he had a hammer and was going to hit my boss’s car which I had been using for the day. He raised the hammer at me and I told the kids to get in the house. We went inside and the next thing I know my house is under fire.”

Police say the gunman fired 15 shots into her home. Ariaz said for the past week she had lived in fear until she heard Knakmuhs had been killed by police.

“It was a huge sigh of relief,” she said. “I feel like my kids and I can sleep now. We’re from California and you’d think we’d been through something like this before but we haven’t. No, not at all.”

To report a correction or typo, please email digitalnews@ky3.com

Copyright 2021 KY3. All rights reserved.