WEST PALM BEACH - A 33-year-old man armed with a knife was fatally shot early Sunday in a West Palm Beach neighborhood by a city police officer, authorities said.

Allan Lorenzo Robb died Sunday after police responded around 2 a.m. to a 911 call about an “armed, suspicious male smoking crack” in the 800 block of Sunset Road, West Palm Beach police said.

Two officers, with probable cause to arrest Robb on a charge of grand theft auto, unsuccessfully deployed “less lethal weapons” before a third officer shot Robb, who died at the scene, according to a police statement. Police reported no other injuries.

Robb was released from prison Sept. 17 after serving time for armed robbery, public records show. West Palm Beach police said Robb's past criminal record includes one felony conviction and five misdemeanor convictions.

Public records dating back to 2007 show convictions for domestic battery, trespassing, resisting arrest, providing a false name, petit theft, driving under the influence and traffic violations.

On Sunday, Robb’s mother, who asked not to be identified by name, gathered with family and friends in front of the house only yards from where her son was killed.

In case you missed it:Man, 24, found shot dead in WPB hotel parking lot

“They shot him right in front of his father,” she said, adding that she did not believe reports about how things went down between police and her son. “It’s not what they say. Not at all.”

Robb’s father, who also asked not to be identified by name, agreed. “This is a wrongful death,” he said.

One of Robb’s next-door neighbors, who asked not to be identified, said he remembers hearing cracks at about 2:43 a.m.

“I heard him say, ‘ No, no, no,’ and then two shots, and then it was silent,” said the man, whose bedroom window is only yards from the side door where Robb was shot. “We were afraid to look out the window. We called the cops, and they told us they already had people on the scene.”

The neighbor said he saw about a dozen SWAT officers and another dozen police officers on the street and in the backyards of surrounding houses.

After the shooting, around 3 a.m., the neighbor said, police came to his house saying that he, his wife and their 2-year-old baby needed to leave because “things could get crazy.” The neighbors said they took shelter at a friend's house across the street where they continued to watch the scene unfold.

“They were screaming, ‘Come out with your hands up,’” the neighbor said of police officers in front of Robb’s house. Officers took a battering ram to the front door, he said, but he did not see anyone else taken out of the house.

About an hour later an ambulance came, he said, and at around 4 a.m. his family was allowed to return home. Police and armored trucks left the scene around noon, he said.

“They must have walked our street a thousand times, up and down with their flashlights,” another neighbor said about the police. “Very thorough. They were looking for something.”

Robb had been staying at the house for about two weeks with his father, uncle, and one other man, neighbors said. Before Robb’s arrival, neighbors said, there were so many different people and cars coming and going from the house that it was hard to tell who lived there at any given time.

“Those people have been an anomaly for five years with different people in and out of there,” the neighbor said. “You never know who lives next door.” Still, that neighbor said, he had never suspected major problems or drug use at the house before Robb showed up.

About a week before the shooting, one neighbor said, she saw Robb and his uncle screaming and fighting in the front yard.

“I just sort of tuned it out,” she said.

Then, on Wednesday, the neighbor said, Robb came by her house saying his water had been shut off, and asked to borrow her hose. “We told him to use it any time he needed,” the neighbor said.

On Thursday, the neighbor said, another heated argument in the front yard drew police to the house. The same thing happened again Friday, she said, but both times police left without taking Robb. In the wee hours of Sunday morning, it all came to a head.

“I was shaken up,” she said. “It was just my adrenaline.”

The officer who fired the fatal shot and both officers who used less lethal methods were placed on administrative leave, as is standard department protocol after such an event, the department said. The names of the responding officers have not yet been released.

@WendyRhodes