Maui police

probe shooting

Family members of a woman

killed after a chase say she

was trapped and giving up

PAIA, Maui >> Family members and some witnesses are criticizing Maui police for the pursuit and fatal shooting of a 27-year-old mother of three who was driving an allegedly stolen car in Paia on Friday.





COURTESY PHOTO

Lisa Kaina



"The police had no right shooting her," said Kaina's brother, Andy Tomita.

Tomita said based on his talks with eyewitnesses, the Cadillac was unable to reverse or move forward, because police cars were in the back of her and the front was blocked by a traffic sign.

"She had her hands in the air," he said. "My sister was cornered in."

Tomita said a police officer got out of the car, approached the driver's side with the windows up and fired at point- blank range, striking Kaina twice in the head.

Police are conducting an internal affairs investigation into the shooting and are deferring questions until a news conference tomorrow or Tuesday.

The officer involved in the shooting was placed on administrative leave.

Police yesterday released Kaina's criminal record of 12 felony arrests and five convictions, including third-degree promotion of a dangerous drug and vehicular theft.

Most of her criminal activity, including two misdemeanor convictions and about a dozen petty misdemeanor charges and violations, occurred in 2003.

Acting Police Lt. Jaime Becraft said Kaina, also known as Lisa K. Naeole and Lisa Kehaulani Tomita, had been charged with probation violation and faced revocation of her supervised release last September.

She also had been found guilty of disobeying police and twice failing to appear in court.

Kaina's aunt Doreen Kusunoki said Lisa, a graduate of Maui High School, had problems but was a "nice person" and should not have been shot and killed by police.

"It's not like she had a weapon," Kusunoki said. "They shouldn't have done this. They should have shot the tire."

She said Kaina had three children, ages 3, 6, and 8, who are staying with relatives.

Tomita said he does not know why his sister was driving an alleged stolen car.

"Maybe she got it from a friend," he said.

Police received a report at 3:44 p.m. Friday of a stolen 2004 Cadillac from the car rental area near Kahului Airport.

Witnesses said they saw a white car driving into Paia Town on the wrong side of Hana Highway.

Maui resident Kekoa Amadeo said he was in his vehicle waiting at a traffic light when he saw a white car turn from Hana Highway up Baldwin Avenue.

Amadeo said another car was already making the same turn, so the white car came around to the left near him.

"She almost wen' hit me," Amadeo said.

Amadeo said through his rear view mirror, he watched the white car hit a couple of cars and just missed hitting a little boy.

He said the white car hit a police car and came to rest near the bank, where he heard two shots.

Amadeo said from where he was looking, the white car driven by Kaina was blocked and could not move and he does not think police should have shot her.

"That was uncalled for, for the police to shoot her," he said.

Haiku resident Jack McShane said he saw the car strike the tree in front of the bank, reverse, then go into a sign near the sidewalk before police shot the female driver.

"She wasn't going in reverse," he said.