The incident began with a chase in Pocono Township Tuesday night.

Example video title will go here for this video

MONROE COUNTY, Pa. — UPDATE: The individuals involved in a standoff and deadly shooting Wednesday in Pocono Township have been identified.

The victim who died at the scene was IDed by troopers as Betty Tibaldi, 54, from Mount Pocono.

Nello Tibaldi, 77, of Mount Pocono, was charged with recklessly endangering another person and possession of a firearm. Tibaldi is locked up in Monroe County.

ORIGINAL STORY:

One woman is dead after an incident with police in the Poconos, according to emergency officials.

A Pocono Township police officer was checking out a suspicious vehicle parked near Bartonsville just before 11 p.m. Tuesday. A husband and wife inside the vehicle took off, and a chase started. That chase ended along Route 611 in Pocono Township.

State police on the scene said the man and woman had a gun in the vehicle refused to get out.

Eventually, the man surrendered, giving the weapon to the woman.

Troopers say the woman, age 54, from Mount Pocono, fired at police. Troopers fired back, and the woman was killed.

"The male occupant exited the vehicle and handed a firearm to the female. The female then pointed the firearm and discharged the firearm at troopers on the scene. They returned fire, striking her, and she was pronounced deceased," said Trooper David Peters.

Newswatch 16 spoke to one man who couldn't get into work this morning. He says he saw posts on social media about what happened.

"I didn't know what was going on until I got on Facebook to really read the comments and see what's going on and come to find out, there was a police chase, and there was a standoff. It's just unfortunate because things like this don't happen in this area right here. We are next to resorts, Great Wolf Lodge, and it's just unfortunate that something like this had to happen," Solomon McEaddy said.

The investigation is being handled by the state police and the Monroe County district attorney's office.