ARLINGTON (WBAP/KLIF)- Arlington Police are investigating an officer-involved shooting that happened Wednesday afternoon. Around 2:30p.m., 911 Dispatch received a call from a passerby who said an SUV was stopped in the middle of the road along Pioneer Parkway near Daniel Drive….and the driver appeared to be slumped over the wheel. Two Arlington officers responded to the call. The Arlington Fire Department was already on scene when they arrived.

One of the officers tried to talk to the driver and told him him multiple times to stay where he was. The driver took off and went south on Daniel Drive.

The officers tried to pull the driver over. He stopped briefly near the intersection of Daniel Drive and Arkansas Lane, at which point one of the officers told him he was under arrest for Evading and that he should shut off his S-U-V. For a second time, the driver did not comply and drove away.

The officers then continued their pursuit. The driver drove to Carla Court, where the roadway dead ends into a cul-de-sac. The driver then made a U-turn and began driving in the direction of one of the officers, who had stopped, exited his vehicle, and was standing near his open door. As the vehicle moved towards him, the officer fired multiple shots at the SUV, striking the driver.

The second officer arrived about the time the shots were fired. Both officers immediately began performing life-saving measures on the driver until paramedics arrived on scene. The driver was transported to the hospital where he later died.

Neither of the officers were injured during the incident. Both of them have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure for officer-involved shootings.

Two separate investigations are currently underway – a criminal investigation to determine whether any criminal offenses were committed during this incident and an administrative investigation to determine whether department policies were followed.

The Tarrant County Medical Examiner’s Office will identify the deceased once next of kin have been notified.

Copyright 2021. WBAP/KLIF News. All Rights Reserved.