The Blaine County Sheriff's Office on Tuesday identified Clayburn Elwood Grant, 35, as the man who was shot and killed on Oct. 23 by a Fort Belknap police officer.

A member of the Fort Belknap Tribes, Clayburn was born on Aug. 30, 1986, to parents Mitchell Grant Sr. and Charlotte Werk. Clayburn has four children, Ayden; 14, Anaya, 13; Alec, 11; and Amius, 7. He and his girlfriend, Tori Snell, were expecting another.

Clayburn's brother, Steven Gill, was shot and killed by Missoula police in 2019.

Sign up:for the Tribune's newsletter on tribal news

Clayburn worked for the Fort Belknap Tribes fighting fires. Family members remember him as a jokester and a caring man who took his responsibility as a father seriously. Carla Grant, Clayburn's younger sister, said they had a "rough childhood" and that Clayburn took care of her growing up. She said he was devoted to his children.

"He put all his time and money into a house just to make sure that his kids had a house that they wanted. He wanted to give to his kids, his nieces, his nephews, the life that we never had, and he was pretty close to it," Carla said.

What happened to Clayburn Grant?

The tribes issued multiple press releases concerning Clayburn's death, but Carla, who witnessed the incident, said there's more to the story.

According to a release from the Fort Belknap Indian Community, on Oct. 23, a Fort Belknap police officer tried to conduct a traffic stop in the Hays area. A pursuit ensued, and when the pursuit ended, according to the tribes, Clayburn was "uncooperative and exhibited a weapon, resulting in an officer-involved shooting and fatality of the suspect." The tribes said Emergency Medical Services arrived at the scene to provide aid.

More:Fort Belknap police officer fatally shoots someone after trying to conduct traffic stop

The FBI is investigating the case, and the identity of the officer has not been released.

Carla said she was with Clayburn the night of Oct. 23. She saw him drive out of his driveway in Hays, and she saw an officer pursue him. She followed the two in her car and said that Clayburn drove to the Mission Area where he turned around and drove back to his house in Hays, while the officer was pursuing him. Clayburn's daughter, Anaya, was in Carla's car with her.

At his house, Carla said Clayburn took a step out of his car and was holding a hunting rifle. She said Clayburn did not point the gun at the officer but that the officer fired four shots at Clayburn.

"(The officer) didn't say anything. He didn't yell anything; he just shot my brother ... He grabbed him right away, threw him on his stomach and handcuffed him. He didn't try to perform CPR. He didn't try to stop the bleeding," Carla said, adding that Emergency Services didn't arrive for at least an hour.

Carla said Clayburn's girlfriend, Tori Snell, witnessed the shooting as well and took a video of Clayburn on the ground, unresponsive. Carla shared the video, which has been circulating on Facebook with the hashtag #JusticeForClayburn. In the video, someone screams and Carla can be heard crying, "A police officer just killed him. He killed him, he killed him, he killed him!"

"I'm the one that put (the video) out there because I need this to be seen. ... There are so many complaints about (the officer) before this happened. I need this out there," she said.

Clayburn's 14-year-old son, Ayden, witnessed the shooting from inside his house, and his 13-year-old daughter, Anaya, saw the incident from Carla's car.

Karen Haakanson, the children's grandmother, said her grandchildren called her screaming.

"I will never forget that (call) and neither will they," Haakanson wrote in a message to the Tribune. "I hurt for them. I can see their pain, their hurt. Oh goodness, it's just not right. My grandkids now have to live without their hero, and we have to pick up the pieces and make sure they live a good life."

Anaya, a seventh-grader at Hays-Lodgepole School, said her dad "really worked hard for us, and he really cared about us."

"The cop had no reason to shoot my dad," she said. "He was really fun, and he cared about us a lot ... It's hard. He was a good dad."

Carla said her family wants justice for Clayburn. She doesn't know why the officer was pursuing her brother's car, she doesn't know why the officer shot her brother and she doesn't know why it took an hour for medical assistance to arrive.

"Why didn't he wait for backup? Why did he have to pull the trigger? Why couldn't he have pointed the gun towards (Clayburn's) legs?" she said.

Carla wants to see the dash and body camera footage of the incident, and she wants the officer to be held accountable.

"I want (the officer) to see the pain he put us through, taking my brother away, taking him away from his kids," she said. "I want him to see how much hurt he caused, not just for his kids but for his community."

Native Americans overrepresented in victims of police brutality

Native Americans are overrepresented in incidents of police brutality, though encounters are underreported.

More:'We have no justice:' Are Native Americans the forgotten victims of police brutality?

Police officers in Montana killed 54 people between 2013-2020, according to mappingpoliceviolence.org. Of the 54 victims, 37 were white, six were Native American, one was Black and one was Latinx (a gender-neutral alternative to Latino or Latina). Nine victims were categorized as "unknown." In this 7-year span, Native Americans accounted for at least 11% of victims killed by police in Montana, though they comprise about 6.7% of the state's population.

Data related to these incidents can be skewed, as many national databases tracking fatal encounters with law enforcement exclude Native Americans in racial and ethnic categories. As a result, Indigenous people can be misidentified, undercounted or labeled "unknown" or "other."

More:'A huge loss to our community': Blackfeet Nation mourns Brendon Galbreath

Brendon Galbreath, 21, a member of the Blackfeet Nation, died after an incident with a Missoula police officer in August, but details remain unclear.

The police department on Aug. 12 issued a statement that Galbreath died in an "officer-involved" shooting after a car chase. Four days later, the Division of Criminal Investigations announced their initial investigation "strongly indicated" Galbreath died of a "self-inflicted gunshot wound."

Nora Mabie covers Indigenous communities for the Great Falls Tribune. She can be reached at nmabie@greatfallstribune.com. Follow her on Facebook @NoraMabieJournalist or on Twitter @NoraMabie.

To support coverage of tribes in Montana, subscribe today.