Authorities found one person dead in a Northeast Portland home Thursday morning after a standoff with the FBI, the agency said.

A spokesperson for the agency said it was unclear how the person died. No law enforcement agencies used force during the standoff, the FBI said in a statement.

FBI agents were conducting an investigation into child exploitation at a home in the 6100 block of Northeast 14th Avenue about 9:30 a.m., officials said.

An occupant of the home barricaded themselves inside, and a Special Emergency Reaction Team from the Portland Police Bureau responded to the scene. Authorities have not publicly identified the person.

After entering the home, officers found the person dead, according to the FBI. The cause of death will be determined by a medical examiner, officials said.

Investigators and a hazardous materials team remained at the scene Thursday morning, though officials said the public faced no ongoing threat.

Doug Lofthouse, who for more than 40 years has lived around the corner from where the standoff occurred, said his wife awakened him about 6:30 a.m., saying police were in the area.

Lofthouse said soon after the couple received a call saying police activity was in the area and residents should shelter in place. By 8 a.m., he began seeing heavily armed officers blocking off streets nearby. He didn’t hear any gunshots or officers giving commands throughout the ordeal.

By noon, officials appeared to be wrapping up the investigation.

Traffic reopened on 14th, and a medical examiner’s vehicle was seen leaving the scene.

A white tent remained in front of the home that appeared to be part of the investigation, a one-story, single-family house with Halloween decorations hung from the front porch.

”This is a beautiful neighborhood with lots of joggers and young parents,” he said. “It’s very peaceful, and we’ve never seen anything like this.”

Joy Elaine also lives nearby and saw flashing lights outside her window about 6 a.m. followed by shouts from FBI agents saying they had a warrant to enter the residence. Elaine turned off all her lights and hid in her bathroom, fearful that someone might start shooting, she said.

She peeked out a window and said she saw armored vehicles lining the street. About two hours after she first saw the lights, she said she heard what sounded like two gunshots.

Elaine, who has lived in the neighborhood for about a year, said a man who lived alone in the house was always cordial and she never saw any children at the residence. She was left shaken by the the incident, though.

”I’ve been suffering from trauma any way, and this is just compounding that,” she said as FBI agents continued collecting evidence from the home nearby. “I’m grateful for my own safety and that no one else was hurt, but it’s really sad.”

-- Kale Williams; kwilliams@oregonian.com; 503-294-4048; @sfkale