Video shows the moments that led up to a violent encounter Monday night where Miami-Dade police fatally shot a wanted man who they say tried to injure officers with a car.

MIAMI-DADE COUNTY, Fla. – Video shows the moments that led up to a violent encounter Monday night where Miami-Dade police fatally shot a wanted man who they say tried to injure officers with a car.

In the surveillance video, you first see the brake lights of a detective’s undercover car as it casually approaches a white sedan already stopped in a parking lot.

The suspect is seen getting back into the driver’s seat as officers approach. That white car then reverses, and cops on foot draw their weapons.

It’s believed that is the point when police fired, as the car accelerated forward.

“I heard tires screeching, and that’s when II heard pop pop,” said Chevron owner Nicholas Guyadeen, who was working at the time.

That bullet-riddled vehicle crashed a short distance away. The driver was rushed to Jackson South Medical Center, where he died from his injuries.

It happened in the area of Quail Roost Drive and Southwest 115th Avenue in Miami-Dade County.

Police say the suspect, identified as 37-year-old Corey Stanley, was wanted in a home invasion that happened Monday morning. He was accused of breaking into a couple’s home and beating them with a rock.

Records show Stanley is a convicted felon who served several years in prison for attempted second-degree murder and grand theft in Sarasota.

“People make mistakes,” said Joshua Sayed, Stanley’s brother. “My brother had already served for that sentence and had been out of prison for quite some time.”

Corey Timothy Stanley is the man reported dead after a police-involved shooting in Miami-Dade County on Monday night. (WPLG)

Family members who live in South Florida told Local 10 News they don’t believe Stanley tried to run over an officer. They said he leaves behind three children.

Miami-Dade police, working an operation to curb violent crimes in the area, spotted Stanley, which led to the confrontation.

Operation Community Shield, an extension of this year’s Operation Summer Heat, has been successful, netting more than 2,500 felony arrests since June alone. Officers have confiscated 873 handguns and removed another 146 rifles from the streets as part of the effort.

However, it’s unclear if Stanley was armed Monday night, when police say his vehicle was perceived as the weapon.

“I can only imagine they were painting him armed and dangerous for the home invasion,” Sayed said. “Was he armed? No.”

No officers were injured in the incident.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is handling the investigation into the police-involved shooting, as is standard procedure.

“I think the Miami-Dade Police Department does a great job,” Guyadeen said. “This guy did a home invasion and hurt a couple. So I think they did a great job preventing him from hurting someone else.”