The Lake County Sheriff’s Office has released the name of the man fatally shot following an Oct. 26 SWAT situation in Leroy Township.

Scott S. Wright, 57, of Painesville, was pronounced dead at Tripoint Medical Center in Concord Township following an hours-long situation at a home on Leroy-Center Road. Wright was shot after authorities say he raised a rifle and leveled it at officers.

Wright’s name was initially withheld by the department while it notified his family. The incident remains under investigation.

Lake County Sheriff’s deputies were dispatched to the residence after Wright allegedly told dispatchers he was going to kill someone, according to a news release from the sheriff’s office.

Upon arrival, deputies were confronted by Wright, who was allegedly restraining a 60-year-old woman at gunpoint. The deputies were able to convince him to release the woman. She walked to deputies at the end of the driveway of the residence and the man returned inside.

Related Articles Crime and Public Safety | Madison Fire District swears in Justin Meister as new chief

Madison Fire District swears in Justin Meister as new chief Crime and Public Safety | Back to School Bash for Lake County students in need on Aug. 5

Back to School Bash for Lake County students in need on Aug. 5 Crime and Public Safety | Work continues on Painesville Sheetz store

Work continues on Painesville Sheetz store Crime and Public Safety | New Lake County Sheriff’s Office public safety training facility nearing completion

New Lake County Sheriff’s Office public safety training facility nearing completion Crime and Public Safety | Lake, Geauga county communities to host National Night Out events The woman told deputies that Wright went to her residence and confronted her about matters involving their relationship. Around 3 a.m., he allegedly assaulted her, including stabbing her repeatedly. She was transported to the hospital for treatment, according to the news release.

The Lake County Sheriff’s Office SWAT team responded. For the next four to five hours, the team’s negotiator spoke repeatedly to the man to end the situation peacefully, according to the release.

All during this time, the man would appear in the windows and garage area armed with a long gun and a handgun and allegedly often pointed it out the window, according to the release. During this time the man was heard and seen breaking windows around the home and pouring what appeared to be gasoline.

Wright allegedly began starting fires inside the home around 9 a.m. and was seen with the long gun in various windows and doorways. He exited the home while it was engulfed in smoke and entered the backyard with the long gun in hand and his finger allegedly on the trigger of the weapon.

As Wright got some distance from the house, SWAT members began speaking to him at a distance to put down the weapon and end the incident peacefully. He allegedly did not comply and officers fired non-lethal rounds at Wright, but they had no effect. Deputies moved closer to prevent his escape due to the danger he posed to area residents. The man allegedly raised his rifle and leveled it at the officers. In response, officers fired at Wright in self-defense, according to the release.

The man was treated by medical units at the scene and transported him to the hospital where he was pronounced dead at 10 a.m.

The sheriff’s office is investigating the incident up to the point that SWAT arrived on scene, according to the release. The Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation was called to the scene and will be the agency in charge of the investigation of the officer-involved shooting.

Lake County Arson Investigative Unit will be investigating the cause of the fire in the home (such as accelerants used and ignition sources).