UPDATE:

One Corpus Christi police officer has been placed on paid administrative leave after fatally shooting a minor who shot at officers as they were pursuing him.

Senior Officer Jaime Licon has been a police officer with the Corpus Christi Police Department for eight years.

Chief Markle says the administrative leave is usual protocol the officers involved as they review policy and right-practices training.

"Anytime an officer must use deadly force it is tragic," a release from Corpus Christi Police Department on Wednesday morning said. "It is even more unsettling that a troubled young man with a gun placed officers in a position that forced them to discharge their firearm. Through our investigation, we believe officers did everything they could to bring this incident to a peaceful resolution."

ORIGINAL STORY:

Aransas Pass police said a suspect who caused campuses to be locked down Tuesday was later shot and killed by Corpus Christi police after a hit-and-run accident at Crosstown Expressway and Trojan Drive.

Aransas Pass police reported the connection early Wednesday morning in a Facebook post.

"By all accounts, the suspect in our case is the same individual involved in the officer involved shooting with Corpus Christi Police Officers yesterday afternoon.

"I am unable to share details right now, and our two departments have been working together to answer many remaining questions.

"The event is tragic for all parties involved, including several of our parents, staff and students, and we will continue to work to find answers as to why and how a youth would resort to such a state in life."

Corpus Christi Police confirmed his death in social media late Tuesday night.

Corpus Christi Police Department Chief Mike Markle said a major traffic accident on a local freeway around 2:40 p.m. is connected to a shooting on the 1700 block of Hickory Place.

The suspect reportedly was driving on the wrong side of the Crosstown Expressway, resulting in a head-on crash. Police said the suspect immediately fled the accident scene.

Police have not said whether the suspect is male or female.

Markle said police were were able to locate the suspect in the neighborhood near Moody High School, where Markle said the suspect fired at officers. Officers returned fire, and the suspect was hit.

"Anytime an officer must use deadly force it is tragic," a release from Corpus Christi Police Department on Wednesday morning said. "It is even more unsettling that a troubled young man with a gun placed officers in a position that forced them to discharge their firearm. Through our investigation, we believe officers did everything they could to bring this incident to a peaceful resolution."

Police say the incident took place over several blocks and near a high school that had "unsuspecting and innocent students and staff."

"It should be noted that the suspect had discharged his weapon toward officers, directly across from the high school on Castenon Street before the foot pursuit ensued," the police statement said. "When confronted with deadly force, officers opted to use less than lethal force at least twice, without success."

Due to the proximity of the high school when officers were confronted with what they perceived to be a serious threat, they placed themselves between the school and threat, to prevent loss of life, police said.

The suspect continued to resist officers, refusing to follow direct commands, and proceeded to evade them on foot. After a pursuit and the initial shots fired by the suspect, officers encountered the suspect on the 1700 block of Hickory at which point the suspect produced a handgun. That action forced the officer to use deadly force to protect his life and those of fellow officers, police said.

The age of the suspect has not been positively identified, but police say he is a juvenile male.

The suspect was transported to a local hospital for treatment where he later died of his injuries. No officers were injured in the incident.

Markle said the officers involved be placed on administrative leave.

"As usual protocol, the officers involved will go on administrative leave while we review policy, right-practices training, all of those things to make sure the officers' mental health is good, you know, because it is a traumatic time to be involved in something like this — these high-pressure situations," he said.

Moody High School, which is close by, was placed on lockdown shortly before 3:30 p.m. due to an incident in the neighborhood and off-campus, according to Brenda Barrera, the Moody High School Secretary.

CCISD Chief Kirby Warnke confirmed to KRIS 6 News that the school was on lockdown.

Multimedia journalist and Sunrise Weekend anchor Corderro McMurry contributed to this developing story. Stick with KRIS 6 News for the latest updates.