A 40-year-old Jonestown man was killed in an officer-involved shooting in Union Township Sunday evening, according to Pennsylvania State Police.

Andrew Dzwonchyk was fatally shot as troopers were taking him into custody. State police were dispatched at 10:42 p.m. for a protection-from-abuse violation at 61 Ridge Road, according to officials.

While there, Dzwonchyk showed up in his vehicle. Officials said a struggle ensued between Dzwonchyk and troopers while he was still in the driver's seat.

Also of interest:Police seek second Lebanon teenager charged in fatal shooting that led to crash

Read about:Democrat Aurelis Figueroa wins district judge race -- a first for a Latina in Lebanon

"Dzwonchyk drove forward and in reverse while one trooper was partially in the vehicle, causing the trooper to be dragged," state police public information Officer David Boehm said at a news conference Monday morning.

After attempts to taser Dzwonchyk were unsuccessful, the trooper not being dragged discharged their firearm.

Immediate first aid was given by both troopers, and EMS responded according to officials. The Lebanon County Coroner's office pronounced Dzwonchyk dead at the scene.

Neighbor John Michael said he wasn't sure what was happening as troopers started crowding his neighbor's driveway.

"I'd seen the ambulance and stuff across the street and was wondering what all the commotion was about," he said. "Then a trooper came and banged on my door, asking me if I'd seen anything. But I didn't know what happened until this morning."

Boehm reported that no one else was in the car at the time of the incident. He could not say if there was only one shot taken, stating this was an ongoing investigation.

"The vehicle was moving while (officers) were there. It's all part of the Investigation," Boehm said when asked why deadly force was necessary, despite the vehicle not moving very fast.

Pennsylvania State Police Troop L Major Case Team and the Lebanon County District Attorney's office are investigating. The trooper has been put on administrative leave.

"We'll look at everything, from the time they got there to the time the event ended," Boehm said. "And all that information will get turned over to the district attorney's office, where they will make the ruling on use of force."

Officials have not released the name of the troopers involved.

This is a developing story. Please check back with the Lebanon Daily News for updates.

Matthew Toth is a reporter for the Lebanon Daily News. Reach him at mtoth@ldnews.com or on Twitter at @DAMattToth.