Update: Man shot by police in Kalamazoo standoff died by suicide, autopsy confirms

KALAMAZOO, MI – Police released the name of a man killed in a 16-hour police standoff.

Alex Rawls, 35, of Kalamazoo was shot multiple times during a 16-hour standoff in the 1500 block of Washington Avenue. The standoff started around 10:45 a.m., Nov. 8 and ended around 3 a.m., Nov. 9, Michigan State Police said in a news release.

Rawls fired multiple times at police during the standoff. No officers were injured but one shot hit a shed near an officer and two rounds hit the windshield of a SWAT vehicle with an officer inside, MSP said.

Related: Shooting suspect in police standoff in Kalamazoo confirmed dead 24 hours after standoff began

One Kalamazoo Public Safety officer and one Kalamazoo County Sheriff’s deputy fired shots at the house, police said. The officer and the deputy are on paid administrative leave, per department policies.

Rawls was found dead on the second floor of the house, and had been hit multiple times, police said.

Officers used a drone to survey the house before entering, police said. They only entered after determining Rawls was neutralized, police said.

State police said they will conduct a complete and thorough investigation before the case is sent to the Kalamazoo County Prosecutor for review.

There was a warrant for Rawls’ arrest stemming from a shooting that occurred one week earlier in the 600 block of West Ransom Street. That shooting occurred at around 1:45 p.m. Nov. 1 leaving a woman in critical condition. The victim is now in stable condition.

Related: Dispute led to afternoon shooting of woman in Kalamazoo, police say

Rawls was on probation for November 2019 convictions of third-degree home invasion and assaulting, resisting, obstructing a police officer, according to Michigan Department of Corrections records.

Police tore the house apart piece by piece as they worked to get Rawls out of the house. The house was almost fully demolished as of 6 p.m. Nov. 9.

More from MLive:

Michigan Republican Fred Upton threatened over infrastructure vote in Congress

Trash, scrap metal seized from home recycling business by Grand Rapids officials

Western Michigan loses 7.1% of students, as enrollment drop follows years-long trend