Authorities have released the name of an 80-year-old mine security guard found shot to death early Wednesday morning.

The Jefferson County Coroner’s Office identified the victim as Samuel Owens Bell Jr. He lived in Bessemer.

Bell was one of two security guards shot roughly six hours apart. Both worked at the same active strip mine in western Jefferson County.

The first victim was able to drive himself to get help after he was shot, but Bell was found dead, and authorities believe he was killed when he arrived to work that morning.

His vehicle was missing, but later recovered following a Wednesday afternoon chase that started in Cullman County and ended in Winston County. The man driving the stolen vehicle was then found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Authorities have not yet released his identity but said he was a suspect in the Jefferson County shootings.

The ordeal began about 1 a.m. Wednesday when the sheriff’s office received a call that had been transferred to them from the Bessemer Police Department reporting that a male had been shot.

The 44-year-old victim was able to drive himself to a location on Powder Plant Road, where he made contact with authorities. Sgt. Joni Money said the victim was then taken to the hospital but was unable to speak with detectives.

Medical personnel gave detectives what information they had been able to get from the victim, and determined the shooting happened near the 4000 block of Blue Creek Road.

That victim was hospitalized at UAB in critical but stable condition.

An 80-year-old man was shot to death early Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2021, and his vehicle stolen. (JCSO)

Then, about 6:40 a.m., deputies were dispatched to the 4000 block of Blue Creek Road again, this time on a report of a dead person. The body of the second victim was located by contractors who arrived at the strip pit to work.

Deputies arrived to find Bell dead from an apparent gunshot wound. He was officially pronounced at 6:46 a.m.

The victim’s 2005 black Cadillac Escalade SUV bearing Alabama tag 1CT7896 had been taken from the scene.

At about 12:45 p.m., Cullman County sheriff’s deputies observed a suspicious vehicle, said Cullman County Deputy Chad Whaley.

During the investigation of the vehicle, it was determined the vehicle was reported to be stolen and involved in a homicide in Jefferson County.

The suspect refused to stop and attempted to elude deputies. The pursuit continued on Highway 278 westbound. Ultimately, the suspect vehicle became stuck as the suspect continued to try and elude law enforcement.

The suspect then fled on foot and stole another vehicle, Whaley said. The pursuit continued toward Winston County.

Other law enforcement agencies became involved in the pursuit. Addison Police Department was able to successfully deploy spike strips and eventually disable the vehicle.

Once the vehicle was stopped and the pursuit ended, deputies discovered the suspect was deceased from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

The case has been turned over to SBI for further investigation. Efforts to reach Drummond Company officials for comment were unsuccessful.