ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — Law enforcement officers in New Mexico were investigating two separate shootings where officers fired at suspects Friday, leaving two people dead and another wounded. No officers were injured.

One of the shootings broke out in the Albuquerque area and involved at least one Bernalillo County sheriff's deputy while the other occurred about 100 miles (160 kilometers) east of Albuquerque and involved officers from several agencies.

In the Albuquerque-area shooting, at least one deputy fired at a man after deputies located a vehicle reportedly involved in a hit-and-run crash, the Sheriff's Department said.

A Subaru Outback matching the description of the hit-and-run vehicle was down the road where it had crashed through a fence, Sheriff Manuel Gonzales said.

As deputies approached, the driver got out of the vehicle with a rifle, Gonzales said.

Political Cartoons View All 1098 Images

“Apparently the subject exited with a firearm, at least one deputy shot (and) struck the individual,” the sheriff said.

Deputies provided first aid to the wounded person who was rushed to a hospital where he died, a sheriff's statement said.

Along with the rifle, multiple weapons were located inside the Subaru, the statement said..

The other shooting was reported by New Mexico State police later Friday afternoon.

State police said that sheriff's deputies from Santa Fe and Torrance counties and state police were involved in the shooting and no officers were injured. The officers were pursuing a vehicle thought to be involved in an earlier robbery, police said.

During the chase, a passenger in the vehicle fired multiple shots at officers and officers shot back, the police statement said.

The vehicle eventually crashed into a tree and police began ordering the suspects out of the vehicle, it said. Eventually, one suspect crawled out the driver's side window and was taken to a hospital for treatment of gunshot wounds.

The passenger, a woman, was found dead inside the vehicle, it said.

That shooting happened along U.S. 285 about 2 miles south of Interstate 40. The remote intersection of the two highways is known as Clines Corners. A 30-mile (48 kilometer) stretch of U.S. 285 was closed between Clines Corner and U.S. 60 in Encino while police investigate.