Indiana State Police said the suspect reached for a holster, drew a handgun and pointed it at two officers. The officers then shot the man.

Example video title will go here for this video

Next up in 5

RUSHVILLE, Ind. — Indiana State Police is investigating an officer-involved shooting early Tuesday morning that is believed to be connected to a shooting that happened earlier in rural Henry County.

Henry County deputies were called to the 2400 block of South Kennard Road in Kennard, Indiana, Monday around 11:30 p.m. on multiple reports of a shooting.

According to investigators, Ivan Wade Flowers, 65, was woken up by a knock at his door. When he opened the door, a man shot and killed him, and left the scene. A sister of Flowers told 13News, his family was also home at the time of the shooting.

Deputies shared suspect information with surrounding police agencies in hopes the suspect would be found.

Shortly after midnight, Rushville officers found a vehicle matching that of the suspect driving south on State Road 3 in northern Rush County.

The suspect, Benjamin Petry, 34, stopped at a Speedway gas station in the 1800 block of North Main Street and went into the store.

When Petry came back out to his vehicle, two officers took cover and attempted to speak with him.

According to ISP, Petry didn't follow orders and reached for a holster, drew a handgun and pointed it at the two officers. The officers then shot Petry.

Officers immediately began administering first aid until medics arrived. The Rush County coroner pronounced Petry dead at the scene.

Police are still working on a motive for the crime, but say Petry and Flowers knew each other and the shooting is not considered random.

Both officers have been placed on administrative leave as the investigation continues, per department policy.

Petry has multiple arrests, including last weekend, for operating a vehicle while intoxicated.

He was arrested in October for intimidation with a deadly weapon against his estranged wife.

She said in court records that Petry always carries a gun. She also said that when he gets drunk, he claims to be a veteran suffering from PTSD from Afghanistan. She said he never actually served in the military.