This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.

WESTMINSTER, Colo. (KDVR) — A Westminster Police Department officer shot and killed a suspect after he drove a possibly stolen car into a ditch and fled Sunday afternoon.

WPD tweeted an officer-involved shooting in the area of 104th Avenue and Wadsworth Parkway was being investigated Sunday afternoon.

The public information officer for the WPD said calls came in about a crash on 103rd Avenue and witnesses said the driver fled the scene. When officers responded, the incident was near Standley Lake High School and there were students inside the school. An officer secured the students while the suspect was being sought.

WPD said when an officer attempted to contact the suspect, he fired at the officer, the PIO said. The officer returned fire and the suspect took off.

When the officer found the suspect, he was unconscious in the bushes. Life-saving maneuvers were performed and the suspect was taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead, WPD said.

The shooting was in no way involved with the high school, the WPD PIO said.

WPD said the vehicle was stolen during an armed carjacking earlier in the day. Police believe there was no one else in the vehicle.

Tami Masters’ yard backs up to the road where the scene played out.

“My son was like ‘what’s going on across the street?’ There was like 20 vehicles, police going everywhere,” Masters said.

Masters said they could hear officers shouting commands down into the ditch but heard no response.

“This is a quiet, safe neighborhood. It was pretty shocking, especially having young kids,” Masters said.

The officer involved was not injured, and there is no threat to the community.

WPD tweeted that 104th between Garrison and Holland will be closed for several hours while this incident is being investigated, and said to use 108th Avenue if you’re in the area.

The full news conference from the WPD PIO can be viewed in the player below.