COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (KKTV) - A man is dead after reportedly firing shots at officers during a standoff in northeast Colorado Springs on the morning of Dec. 10.

BREAKING: Reported stand-off/barricaded suspect near N. Academy and Austin Bluffs behind the 24 Hour Fitness.



Police tell 11 News a suspect fired at officers, and officers reportedly fired back. No word on any injuries yet. @KKTV11News pic.twitter.com/QcKFvnkHRw — Kasia Kerridge (@KasiaKerridgeTV) December 10, 2021

Colorado Springs Police responded to a call just after 1 a.m. for a suspicious vehicle near North Academy and Austin Bluffs. K-9 and patrol officers on scene gave the man inside the van commands to come out, while that was happening the man reportedly fired shots at the officers.

Lt. Jim Sokolik said during a press conference at least one officer fired back at the suspect.

The man reportedly barricaded himself inside the van. Officers requested the tactical enforcement unit and negotiators respond to the scene. Sokolik says before they came in contact with him, the man spoke with dispatch saying “he was armed with a firearm and was going to kill officers”.

At some point during this standoff, the man reportedly fired at officers again and at least one officer fired back.

Other units eventually arrived at the scene and determined the suspect was dead.

Please avoid the area of Morning Sun Ave. and Academy Blvd. CSPD officers were involved in a shooting and the scene is still active and unsafe. The suspect is not yet in custody . A shelter in place has been issued for the area.Additional information forthcoming when available — Colorado Springs Police Department (@CSPDPIO) December 10, 2021

11 News on scene heard about five gunshots at 4 a.m. as officers surrounded a car behind the 24 Hour Fitness. At one point, SWAT was on the roof and a K-9 was on scene.

The officers involved in the shooting were:

Officer Ferguson has been employed as a sworn police officer with the Colorado Springs Police Department since October 2012 and is currently assigned to the Specialized Enforcement Division as a K9 officer.

Officer Shepard has been employed as a sworn police officer with the Colorado Springs Police Department since January 2016 and is currently assigned as a Falcon Division DUI Officer.

Officer Paine has been employed as a sworn police officer with the Colorado Springs Police Department since March 2018 and is currently assigned as a Sand Creek Division DUI Officer.

Officer Fash has been employed as a sworn police officer with the Colorado Springs Police Department since November 2018 and is currently assigned to Sand Creek Patrol, Shift II.

Copyright 2021 KKTV. All rights reserved.