An off-duty University of California police officer shot and killed an armed robber Sunday morning at a restaurant in San Pablo, according to the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office.

At about 11:30 a.m. Sunday, deputies responded to a report of a shooting at a Nation's Giant Hamburgers in the 16300 block of San Pablo Avenue in unincorporated San Pablo, where an armed suspect entered and robbed the cashier, the sheriff's office said.

An off-duty sergeant from the UC Berkeley Police Department was dining at the restaurant and confronted the suspect. The sergeant fired one shot striking the suspect, sheriff's officials said. The suspect was taken to a hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.

The suspect was identified as 29-year-old Amanuel Moreno of Richmond, according to the sheriff's office.

Get a weekly recap of the latest San Francisco Bay Area housing news. Sign up for NBC Bay Area’s Housing Deconstructed newsletter.

The UC officer has been placed on paid administrative leave per standard protocol, and the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office is leading the investigation, according to UCPD.

VIDEO: Surveillance video shows the moments before an armed man walked into a @NationsBurgers in San Pablo & ordered 1 employee to hand over all the money. Authorities say a customer inside happened to be an off-duty sergeant and shot & killed the suspect. @nbcbayarea pic.twitter.com/uuRbTM4jvT — Melissa Colorado (@melissacolorado) December 13, 2021

Surveillance video from the gas station across from the Nation's Giants Hamburger shows the moment a man in a black hoodie starts walking toward the restaurant. The women who were working on Monday identified him as the man who walked in Sunday and threatened one of them with a gun to hand over all the cash.

Anyone with information should contact the Sheriff’s Office Investigation Division at 925-313-2600 or through Sheriff’s Office dispatch at 925-646-2441. Tips can be emailed to tips@so.cccounty.us or call 866-846-3592 to leave an anonymous message.