UPDATED at 8:55 a.m. Monday with man's name

JENNINGS — A St. Louis County police officer shot and killed a man Sunday after police surrounded a home where he had allegedly fired shots — striking a neighbor — and walked out carrying a sawed-off shotgun.

The man fatally shot by police was identified Monday as George Hollins Jr., 26, of the 9700 block of Gentry Avenue.

Just before 11 a.m. Sunday, county officers responded to a call for shots fired in the 2000 block of Coleridge Drive. They found a man firing a shotgun from a house, police said.

Police surrounded the residence and called a tactical unit and crisis negotiators for backup. The man could be seen in a side doorway apparently holding improvised Molotov cocktails, police said.

At some point, another man was hit by gunfire in the house next door. He was released from DePaul Hospital Sunday with more than 35 pellet wounds in his back.

The neighbor, a 68-year-old retired nurse who declined to be named, said he and his girlfriend, Dorothy Hill, 75, were told by police to stay inside their home during what they described as a “siege.” Later, they heard a loud bang in the living room, which they initially believed was a brick hitting the window.

It was a shotgun blast, and soon, a second shot came through the same window, striking the retired nurse in his left side. The shotgun pellets shredded the couple’s blinds, struck the flat-screen TV and pockmarked the far wall. Glass shards covered the red carpet in the living room.

“I was just lucky his body shielded me,” Hill said.

Before negotiators arrived, Hollins walked out the side door with a sawed-off shotgun, police said. One officer shot and killed Hollins, who was pronounced dead at the scene.

Police recovered a shotgun from the scene. The officer who shot Hollins is 30 years old and has six years of experience, police said.

No police officers were injured during the incident. A shotgun blast also ripped through the window of an unoccupied house being refurbished on the opposite side.

The beige vinyl-sided, 800-square-foot house where the man was killed is owned by an elder George Hollins, according to county property records. Hollins, a longtime resident, died earlier this year, his neighbors said. It wasn't immediately clear how the suspect, Hollins Jr., was related to the homeowner.

Since the homeowner's death, several people have been seen coming and going to the house, neighbors said. A silver Chevrolet Impala with no license plates was parked in the driveway Sunday, and the porch light was on.

County police responded to the same house earlier Sunday for a welfare check. Officers spoke with a man around 8 a.m., determined no criminal activity was occurring and left the scene, police said.

Anyone with information is asked to call the St. Louis County Police Department at 636-529-8210 or CrimeStoppers at 866-371-8477.