Stephen Byrd / For the Times

MUSCATINE, Iowa — Daryl Rickheim said he heard "all hell break loose" late Sunday and then stepped out on the porch of his home at Muscatine's L & B Mobile Home Park to see what was going on. He saw a blue and silver pickup truck crashed against his parked boat trailer and a Muscatine police car with flashing lights parked right behind it.

Rickheim was one of the witnesses questioned in the death of Beau Andrew Weiersheuser, 19, of Muscatine who was shot by one of two Muscatine police officers while fleeing the scene of a hit-and-run accident near Wallace Street on Muscatine's south end.

Weiersheuser, 100 Laurel St., was pronounced dead at 12:48 a.m. Monday of a single gunshot wound to the upper body, according to Unity Hospital officials. Authorities from the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation, or DCI, the Muscatine County Attorney's Office and Muscatine Police Department investigated, and the DCI has taken over as lead investigator .

An autopsy is scheduled today at University Hospitals in Iowa City.

Police said the incident was the first fatal use of force by an on-duty Muscatine police officer since 1972. The two police officers, Mark Bowers and Matt Lawrence, suffered injuries during the incident and were treated at the scene by Muscatine Fire Department paramedics. Lawrence was transported to Unity Hospital and later referred to a medical specialist for further treatment.

Muscatine police officials said Bowers was placed on paid administrative leave and Lawrence was placed on paid medical leave while the investigation is in progress, in accordance with department policy..

Muscatine Police Lt. Grant Pickering said police received a 911 call from an unidentified woman about 11:30 p.m. Sunday who said she was almost run over by a pickup truck.

"Officer Bowers was the first person to arrive at the scene, and he saw a pickup truck driven by Weiersheuser stopped on Wallace Street," Pickering said. "After trying to contact Weiersheuser with no response, he called for backup."

Rickheim said when he looked out the door of his mobile home, he saw a police officer standing near the driver-side door of Weiersheuser's truck. "(The officer) kept ordering the guy to get out of the vehicle," Rickheim said. "I have thin walls, so I heard him say it several times.

"The officer was hollering, but he wasn't swearing or anything," Rickheim said. "But the guy wouldn't get out."

Police said Lawrence arrived shortly after Bowers' call and both officers cautiously approached Weiersheuser's truck. Pickering said both officers were at the truck's driver-side window when Weiersheuser suddenly backed his truck into Bowers' squad car and lurched forward, striking both officers.

Rickheim said he saw an officer reach inside the truck, trying to turn it off. However, the truck rolled on, dragging the officer and hitting a storage shed behind Rickheim's mobile home.

Pickering said both officers fired their guns at Weiersheuser's truck after he rammed the squad car and attempted to flee. The truck traveled about "a quarter block" to the east, he said.

Police said Weiersheuser ran through several backyards, north to Sampson Street. The duty officer Sunday night, Sgt. Art Anderson, joined the pursuit and found Weiersheuser collapsed in the 2200 block of Sampson Street.

Although Pickering did not know how many shots Bowers and Lawrence fired at Weiersheuser's truck, he said no shots were fired at Weiersheuser while he fled on foot.

Rickheim's neighbor, Matt Evans, 43, told the Muscatine Journal that he and his wife, Terry, heard loud noises and saw flashing lights as well. However, when Evans peeked out his window, he said that he saw two police officers standing with guns drawn. "I didn't see a truck, just the officers and their squad car," Evans said.

"But my daughter, Molly, told me that she heard someone say ‘get down,' an engine rev up, then all of a sudden, we all heard nine to 12 shots, all within seconds.

"I grabbed my wife and yelled at Molly and my son to get down," Evans said.

Rickheim, an avid duck and game hunter, said after the initial gunshot, he heard two additional gunshots, then more gunfire moments later.

Rickheim said he didn't believe that the police officers did anything improper during the incident.

"My sympathy goes out to the family of that kid," he said. "But if those officers hadn't tried to stop the truck, that kid could have ran into someone else. He seemed determined to get away from them."

Stephen Byrd can be contacted at (563) 263-2331, Ext. 320, or stephen.byrd@muscatinejournal.com.