Police said a woman is dead after a police chase involving a man that stole a big rig and crashed into a home in north Harris County on Tuesday.

HOUSTON – Police said a woman is dead after a police chase involving a man that stole a big rig and crashed into a home in north Harris County on Tuesday.

Officers said the deadly crash happened at a home on the 11500 block of McKinley Street near West Mt. Houston Rd. The company that owns the truck was able to use a GPS to locate the truck.

Sheriff Ed Gonzalez said on Twitter that Eric Black, 38, stole an 18-wheeler flatbed and evaded police. He eventually jumped out of the truck while it was still moving.

bed inside the residence were struck by the truck. A male victim (54) is stable and a female (50) was pronounced deceased at the scene. Black is being charged with Murder and Reckless Aggravated Assault. Black is in the Harris County Jail. #HouNews — Ed Gonzalez (@SheriffEd_HCSO) October 26, 2021

According to investigators, other vehicles flipped over when the 18-wheeler crashed into the home, pinning two of the four people inside.

Surveillance video shows the minute the big rig crashed into the home. According to officers at the scene, there were four people inside of the home at the time of the crash. Police said two people were able to get out, but two others were pinned under the big rig. Investigators said 54-year-old Jeff Conyers was stuck under the gas tank for more than an hour before he was rescued and taken to the hospital. Officers said he faced severe injuries. Conyers’ wife, 50-year-old Aylene Heaney died, police said.

Officers said Black was taken into custody now face charges of felony murder reckless aggravated assault. According to Sean Teare with the district attorney’s office, Black was out on parole for evading arrest in a motor vehicle and has a lengthy criminal history.

The brother of Jeff Conyers, one of the victims that is currently in the hospital, has created a GoFundMe account.

“Jeff was crushed under the truck and is in the hospital. He has lost his love, his home, and basically everything he owned,” Chris Conyers wrote on the GoFundMe page.

Chris says Jeff has a long recovery ahead of him.

The Harris County Vehicular Crimes Division is investigating the crash.