Two people, including a bystander, are dead after two crashes involving vehicles allegedly attempting to elude Oklahoma City police in the last week.

About 7 p.m. Monday, a brief pursuit near Interstate 44 and SW 104 began when a police officer tried to stop a vehicle for a traffic violation.

Oklahoma City police said the pursuit was called off shortly before the suspect's vehicle caused a deadly multi-car crash near SW 104 and Pennsylvania Avenue about two miles away.

Police said Sean Donahue, 35, was an innocent motorist killed in the crash.

More:COVID-19 vaccine mandate for Oklahoma City police recruits scrapped

Police arrested a 16-year-old on a homicide complaint. Two teenage passengers reportedly in the vehicle were not arrested.

About 3:39 a.m. Friday, a robbery was reported at a 7-Eleven near 1520 SW 59.

Authorities said two suspects involved in the robbery fled in a red Saturn and were spotted by an officer minutes later traveling south on S Western Avenue approaching Interstate 240.

Police said the officer initiated a traffic stop. The suspects’ vehicle pulled over in a parking lot near I-240 and Western Avenue before speeding away east on a westbound service road.

More:Supreme Court says two Tahlequah police officers had immunity in fatal shooting

The suspects entered the westbound lanes of I-240 driving the wrong way, police said.

The pursuing officer drove on I-240 going east in the eastbound lanes, paralleling the suspects in an attempt to keep sight of them, police said.

The suspects crashed head-on into another vehicle, police said. The collision killed the driver who attempted to elude police, and injured his passenger. Police identified the driver as Melvin Simpson, 51.

The passenger was taken to OU Health University of Oklahoma Medical Center, where he was treated and released into police custody. Police identified him as Michael Jerome Milton, 51. He has been booked into the Oklahoma County jail on robbery complaints.

The driver of the vehicle that was struck by the suspects was taken to Integris Baptist Medical Center, where he was treated and released, police said.

After the deadly crash, police Master Sgt. Gary Knight said in an email to reporters:

“It's important to note that this was never a pursuit.”

In May, a 28-year-old mother of two who was also pregnant was killed when a fleeing suspect pursued by police crashed into her vehicle at Martin Luther King Avenue and NE 16.