SHARON (CBS) -- A man accused of causing a fatal crash in Sharon Sunday night has been ordered held without bail.

State Police said around 8 p.m., a 2020 Nissan Altima driven by 22-year-old Nicholas Snyder of Wrentham went speeding by a work detail on Route 1 in Foxboro. "The Nissan almost struck a worker on the detail who had re-entered his truck mere seconds earlier," State Police said.

A trooper began pursuing the car but the chase was called off shortly thereafter because they couldn't stop the car safely.

At an "extremely high rate of speed," the Nissan collided with the rear of a Subaru Forester at the intersection of Route 1 and Old Post Road in Sharon.

22-year-old Nicholas Snyder brought into Stoughton District Court (WBZ-TV)

After hitting the Subaru, the Nissan then hit a Dodge Durango.

The driver of the Subaru, a 21-year-old Kevin Earley, of Sharon, was killed. The driver of the Dodge suffered non-life-threatening injuries.

Snyder was injured and taken to Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston under State Police supervision.

Snyder was arraigned on a motor vehicle homicide charge and other offenses Monday afternoon. He was ordered held without bail pending a dangerousness hearing on Wednesday.

Kevin Earley (WBZ-TV)

The victim's family said Kevin Earley was working as a food delivery driver when he was hit and killed. His death is devastating for Sharon, where Kevin's father and grandfather worked for the fire and police departments. His aunts and relatives cried and cradled his photo outside court in Stoughton Monday.

"We were so blessed to have him for these short 21 years," Earley's aunt Carol Gannon said. "He was talented witty funny and loveable. He loved life, but most of all he loved his family. He will not be forgotten as he made the world a better place."

Kevin was a loved longtime member of the town's historical society. "He was our youngest member," Shirley Schofield said. "He was always willing to do things when we asked him."

More charges could be on the way for Nicholas Snyder. Police say an open beer bottle and other evidence was found in his car. He's being held until a dangerousness hearing.