A Will County deputy shot and killed a man who was fleeing the law after he shot his father in the face early Monday morning, police said.

The man shot by the deputy, 21-year-old Alexander Wheeler, died at Silver Cross Hospital in New Lenox, according to a statement released by the sheriff’s office.

About 4 a.m., Wheeler shot his 52-year-old father in his Grand Prairie Drive home and battered his mother when she attempted to intervene, police said.

Wheeler then fled the home, police said.

New Lenox police sit in front of the home at the 1900 block of Grand Prairie Drive. A 21-year old man shot his father at the home on Grand Prairie Drive in New Lenox early Monday morning, police said. Monday, Dec. 20, 2021 in New Lenox. (Gary Middendorf - gmiddendorf@shawmedia.com/Gary Middendorf)

“Police were advised that Wheeler may be under the influence of drugs and was possibly in possession of a weapon,” according to the statement from the sheriff’s office. “A description of his vehicle was given as a 2020 silver Honda Civic.”

About 5 a.m., a deputy spotted the Civic near the intersection of Cedar and Laraway roads, police said.

“While additional officers arrived, a traffic stop was attempted on Wheeler,” police said. “Wheeler refused to stop and a pursuit was initiated.”

A 21-year-old man shot his father at this house on Grand Prairie Drive in New Lenox early Monday morning, and then was shot and killed by a Will County deputy, police said. (Joseph Hosey)

The law chased Wheeler back to the area of his parents’ home and “officers fanned out in an attempt to locate” him, police said.

“Wheeler’s vehicle was then observed heading down Wind Crest Lane where he attempted to drive through a resident’s backyard,” police said.

At that point, Wheeler got out of his car and ran off, police said.

A deputy hit Wheeler with a Taser but it did not stop him, police said.

“Wheeler continued to flee without compliance of the deputy’s commands which led to the officer deploying his service weapon and shooting Wheeler,” police said.

Wheeler’s mother and father also were taken to Silver Cross, police said.

The father “sustained serious injuries but was conscious at the scene,” according to the statement from the sheriff’s office. “His current condition is unknown at this time.”

A 21-year-old man shot his father at this house on Grand Prairie Drive in New Lenox early Monday morning, and then was shot and killed by a Will County deputy, police said. (Joseph Hosey)

New Lenox and Joliet police officers were at the residence on Grand Prairie Drive throughout Monday morning. The overhead door of the home’s attached garage was open and an evidence marker had been placed on the floor.

Neighbors said they were unaware of what happened earlier Monday morning and were shocked to find out about the shootings.

“Truthfully, nothing like this happens, especially in this neighborhood,” said Amy Duffy, who stood down the street from the Grand Prairie Drive home with her wife and father.

“You never know what happens behind closed doors,” said Duffy, who said she became an advocate for victims of domestic violence after a cousin was killed in Wisconsin in September 2020, and is now involved with the organization Connections for Abused Women and their Children.

The New Lenox Police Department was conducting the investigation into the shooting of Wheeler’s father, New Lenox Deputy Chief Micah Nuesse said. The Will/Grundy Major Crimes Task Force was handling the investigation of Wheeler’s shooting death, the sheriff’s office said.