BURTON, MI -- Police have released further details on the police pursuit and exchange of fire in Burton that left an officer and deputy critically injured and the suspect dead Tuesday.

Surveillance video footage shared by the Genesee County Sheriff’s Office in a Wednesday, Dec. 22 update on the shooting showed 23-year-old Brendan Pinkston, of Burton, holding what appears to be a handgun while pacing around the yard of a home just south of Bristol Road.

The yard Pinkston was walking in was not part of his property, Genesee County Sheriff Chris Swanson said in a video update on the case.

A caller reported the man to 911, who appeared to be looking around the yard and over its fence.

“We don’t know what he was looking for or who he was looking at,” the sheriff said.

He eventually jumped over the fence, leaving the property.

Four officers -- three from the Burton Police Department and one sheriff’s deputy -- responded to the scene within five minutes.

Related: Officer, deputy expected to be OK after Genesee County shooting, sheriff says

The officers and deputy located the man near Columbine Avenue and Bristol Road.

Swanson said the officers and deputy did not see the gun, but they identified the man through a description that was provided by the caller.

The suspect fled on foot and at least three officers and one deputy pursued the man on foot as he fled, Swanson said.

At some point during the chase, the suspect fired at police, critically injuring Burton Police Officer Dalton Christie and Genesee County Sheriff’s Deputy Brandon Fachting.

Police fired back at Pinkston, who was pronounced deceased at the scene.

Swanson said he cannot comment at this time on if the officer and deputy who were shot were the ones who shot and killed the suspect or if it was another officer at the scene.

He said he could confirm there were “multiple shots fired by multiple people.”

“It was a violent encounter, but all of the specific details, we’re still working on all that,” Swanson said. “The ballistics and trajectory -- it involves a lot of moving parts.”

Genesee County David Leyton said Tuesday the suspect attempted to climb a fence, which collapsed, during the chase. He said police were trying to pull the fence off the suspect when he opened fire.

However, the sheriff said Wednesday that he cannot confirm that detail at this time but “can confirm that a fence was involved.”

Related: Prosecutor: Man dead, two officers critically injured after shooting in Genesee County

Christie was moved from critical to fair condition around 5 p.m. Tuesday.

Fachting underwent emergency trauma surgery for three hours at Hurley Medical Center in Flint.

He remains in critical condition but is expected to survive.

The sheriff’s office and Burton Police Department are heading the investigation with assistance from the Michigan State Police Crime Lab, Swanson said.

“We work with other organizations based on needs and we’re more than capable of handling this event,” the sheriff said.

Swanson said two detectives have been sent from the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office to “shadow” the investigation into the shooting and provide a “third eye,” as officers involved in the exchange of gunfire were part of the departments now investigating the case.

The collaboration between the sheriff’s offices is possible through the Michigan Sheriff’s Association MISSION investigation program, Swanson noted.

Body camera footage, along with other evidence will be reviewed during the investigation, Swanson said.

Sheriff’s Office deputies do not have body cams, but Burton police do.

Read more on MLive:

Police continue search for suspect after man seriously injured in shooting at Owosso bar

Woman dies in hospital week after downtown Flint shooting and crash

Officer, deputy expected to be OK after Genesee County shooting, sheriff says

Five homes condemned after Flint house explosion, city says