COLORADO SPRINGS — One person is dead, another has been rescued, and several investigations are underway following a shots fired call that ended as an officer-involved shooting.

According to CSPD, officers were dispatched to the 6900 block of Palace Drive around 9:30 Wednesday night for a shots fired call. When they arrived, they were told a man had shot at his neighbor’s house.

Officers were able to confirm the suspect, who has not been identified, was armed and barricaded inside a house. CSPD then started negotiations with the suspect.

Soon after, CSPD’s Tactical Enforcement Unit (TEU) was called to the scene and took over negotiation efforts. At some point, the suspect fired at least one round at officers. At least one officer then fired at least one round at the suspect.

CSPD said negotiations continued, but officers received no response.

Officers entered the home and found the suspect dead from a gunshot wound. At some point throughout the situation, police also rescued a person who was inside the home with the suspect. That individual has not been identified.

The coroner’s office is expected to identify the suspect and determine the official cause of death.

Because this is an officer-involved shooting, the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office (EPSO) has taken over the investigation. However, CSPD will continue investigating the original shots fired call that was reported Wednesday night.

Due to the number of investigations and agencies involved in this situation, Palace Drive and nearby areas are expected to be closed throughout the morning and into the afternoon.

FOX21’S MINUTE-BY-MINUTE COVERAGE

UPDATE: CSPD has confirmed the situation is an officer-involved shooting. At last report, police said the scene was secure. An update is expected to be released around 7 a.m.

EPSO will be the lead investigating agency in this Officer Involved Shooting (OIS). PIO, LT Deb Mynatt, is on scene at the media staging area – King Soopers parking lot in the 6900 block of N. Academy Blvd. CSPD, PIO SGT Newton, will provide public safety on-camera brief shortly. https://t.co/H3X2qBRJXr — EPCSheriff (@EPCSheriff) December 23, 2021

6900 block of Palace Drive

Police and the suspect are in the 6900 block of Palace Drive. Police say the suspect is not in custody and the scene is unsafe.

🚨HAPPENING NOW🚨

A barricaded suspect is occurring in the 6900 block of Palace Dr. The suspect is not in custody & the scene is still active and unsafe. Please avoid the area. Additional information will be released when available. PIO is not responding to the scene. — Colorado Springs Police Department (@CSPDPIO) December 23, 2021

People are asked to avoid the area.

This is a developing story. FOX21 will update as more information is released.