SPRINGFIELD, Mo. (KY3) - Police are investigating a deadly officer-involved shooting in north Springfield.

Richard R. McCormick, 62, died in the shooting.

Officers responded to an apartment complex in the 200 block of East Norton Road Thursday afternoon, just before 3:30 pm. Investigators say officers responded to shots heard outside the apartment complex. Investigators say they received updates on their way to the scene that a man was attempting to force his way into an apartment with a rifle. When officers arrived on the scene and saw McCormick, they demanded he drop his gun. An officer deployed less-lethal bean bag rounds at McCormick, which were unsuccessful. Lt. Mark Foos says when McCormick pointed the weapon at the officers, they fired shots hitting him.

“As officers arrived on the scene, they approached off Norton road from the north, saw the suspect and challenged him, gave out verbal commands for him to drop the weapon,” Lt. Foos says. “At that point, the suspect turned around and pointed the weapon in the direction of the officers.”

Investigators are working to figure out how many shots were fired at the suspect.

Neighbor Katelyn Cross says she was sitting on her patio when police arrived and even heard the gunshots.

”It was scary,” Cross says. “This is like the second one in the last two months and hearing that somebody died after that. It’s very mind-blowing.”

Officers attempted life-saving measures on the man. He died at a Springfield hospital.

Lt. Foos says it’s unclear why the man was trying to get into that apartment.

”The suspect is a possible resident of a neighboring apartment building in the area,” Lt. Foos says.

Another neighbor tells KY3 in the five years he’s lived in the area, he hasn’t been concerned about safety.

”Everybody in this community gets along with each other and we look out for each other. There’s a lot of senior citizens in these buildings and we all take care of one another.”

Cross says despite feeling safe with security in her own apartment, she’s looking forward to moving out of the area.

”Don’t ever move to this side of town,” Cross says. “Ever, unless you have to.”

Police have closed that portion of East Norton Road to investigate.

The three officers involved in the shooting incident have been placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation. This case will be presented to the Greene County Prosecutor’s Office for review.

The Springfield Police Department’s Criminal Investigation Division is currently investigating this incident. Detectives ask anyone with information about this incident to contact the Springfield Police Department at 417-864-1810 or make an anonymous call to Crime Stoppers at 417-869-TIPS (8477).

To report a correction or typo, please email digitalnews@ky3.com

Copyright 2021 KY3. All rights reserved.