Roberto Salgado, a 39-year-old resident of Ramona was identified as the suspect in a Vista homicide in a bulletin Sunday night.

Example video title will go here for this video

SAN DIEGO COUNTY, Calif. — Police were investigating Monday after an officer was shot and a suspect killed during an overnight pursuit that lasted several hours in Escondido, according to authorities. Roberto Salgado, a 39-year-old resident of Ramona was identified in a bulletin Sunday night which also included a description of the vehicle Salgado was driving, a 2018 Chevy Silverado.

Police spotted the vehicle around 11:20 p.m. and attempted to perform a traffic stop. Salgado fled from police in the vehicle, according to the Escondido Police Department. The pursuit ended near Mission Avenue and Gamble Street around 3 a.m. The car, which had OnStar, was disabled through that system, police said.

When the truck was stopped, the suspect got out and there was an exchange of gunfire between him and two Escondido police officers.

One of the officers was shot in the chest but was wearing a bullet-proof protected vest. He was transported to Palomar Medical Center with non-life-threatening injuries where he was treated and released. The officer has been with the Escondido Police Department for five years, according to the agency.

According to police, the suspect was shot multiple times. He was transported to the hospital and later died.

There was a female in the car with the suspect but was not injured. She was taken in for questioning, police said.

Police said the homicide Salgado was suspected of happened at 1300 Teelin Avenue in Vista just after 5 p.m. on Sunday. The victim of that shooting was 42-year-old Florencio Rodriguez. Florencio lived at the Teelin address with his wife and was found shot in the driveway of his home.

Mission Avenue was closed between North Broadway and Fig Street during the investigation.

The investigation is ongoing, anyone with information regarding this incident is asked to contact Detective Pat Hall 760-839-4705.