JONESBORO, Ark. (KAIT) - A Jonesboro man is dead after being tasered during an escape earlier this week, according to the Craighead County Sheriff’s Office.

Craighead County Chief Deputy Justin Rolland says on Monday, March 29, deputies received a call for medical assistance at a home on County Road 762.

When deputies arrived, a woman was being treated by medical personnel, and deputies were told she had been assaulted and “held against her will” by 24-year-old Timothy Coleman.

However, Coleman’s father says that he had originally called 911 because his son was having an asthma attack.

“Called an ambulance and it went haywire,” the father said.

Chief Deputy Rolland says that while deputies were investigating the assault, they placed Coleman in handcuffs and placed him in the back of a patrol car.

The report states that deputies could see from the porch damage to the home that matched the victim’s statement.

While deputies were talking, they had to repeatedly tell Coleman to stop striking the window or door in the patrol car.

Deputies say after multiple warnings, Coleman continued.

When deputies started to put Coleman in leg shackles to stop the kicking, Coleman managed to escape.

One of the deputies immediately pulled his taser to stop Coleman.

The report states, it’s unknown if the deputy hit Coleman, but he fell and deputies regained custody and placed him in leg shackles.

The deputy in the report says that one of the probes from his taser was in Coleman’s shirt, and the other was wrapped around the deputy’s leg.

The father told Region 8 News that Coleman was running to get his inhaler.

“The next thing I know he’s down – they tased him, he went down and that was it,” he said.

According to the report, once Coleman was back under control, they could tell he was having shortness of breath and called for another ambulance.

The report states deputies helped Coleman standup straight to allow for easier breathing, while another deputy got Coleman’s asthma inhaler.

The deputy gave Coleman puffs at Coleman’s request and direction, the report shows.

Deputies say Coleman became hard to understand as he was trying to talk, and then went limp.

Deputies then removed the handcuffs from Coleman, laid him on his back, and then an ADE was used by the deputies.

The deputies noted in the report they also gave chest compressions and gave breaths during the compressions with a mask on until Brookland 1st responders and EMS arrived.

Coleman was then taken to a local hospital and put on life support.

“My only son and they take him away from me,” said his father.

On Friday, April 2, Rolland confirmed Coleman died Thursday night.

Craighead County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the domestic dispute, while Arkansas State Police investigate the in-custody incident.

ASP said they’re also looking into the medical findings.

ASP said if there was any evidence of wrongdoing, they will pass their findings onto the sheriff’s office and/or the prosecuting attorney’s office.

Copyright 2021 KAIT. All rights reserved.