McAllen PD: Man dies in custody after threatening restaurant employees and customers

A man died Wednesday after he was arrested by McAllen police officers after collapsing during a brief foot pursuit.

Officers with the McAllen Police Department responded to a restaurant on the 1400 block of South 10th Street about a "possibly intoxicated" man screaming at customers inside the establishment Wednesday at 10:17 a.m., according to a news release from the police department.

Police arrived at the scene and found all the restaurant employees and customers "huddled together" while the male suspect stood between them and the restaurant door, threatening them to not leave the restaurant, the release stated.

Officers at the scene attempted to assist the suspect, as he "continued screaming, at times the screaming was undecipherable, and at times the suspect claimed that he knew 'how you [police officers] work,'" the release stated.

Officers evacuated employees and customers during the interaction with the suspect.

When the suspect saw a customer run toward the parking lot, he went after him to prevent the customer from leaving, according to the release.

"The responding officers pursued the male suspect onto the parking lot and towards 10th Street. At 10th Street, the male suspect stumbled and collapsed on the northbound lanes of 10th Street," the release stated.

Authorities said officers attempted to subdue and place the suspect in custody for resisting arrest.

"The male suspect's resistance included biting and causing serious injury to responding officers," the release stated.

After placing the suspect in custody, police on the scene requested emergency medical services for three officers who were injured in the incident, according to the news release.

Less than 10 minutes after reporting that the male suspect was detained, officers said the man was not breathing and began CPR procedures until EMS arrived.

Officials say the male suspect was transported to McAllen Medical Center, where he died.

Police have not released the identity of the suspect. The investigation remains ongoing.