After arriving at a residential cul-de-sac last month heavily armed with rifles, Santa Rosa police officers deployed stun guns at least three times, including twice at close range, to subdue a Roseland man who died shortly afterward, according to newly released body-worn camera videos of the fatal confrontation.

The city, on Tuesday, released footage from the body-worn cameras of nine officers who took part in the Nov. 18 encounter with Jordon Pas, who was suspected of firing rounds that struck at least one parked car prior to the arrival of police.

Authorities were called to Peach Court after 1 a.m. by residents who reported hearing gunfire.

The footage provides the most detailed look authorities have allowed to date at the actions of Santa Rosa police officers leading up to Pas’ death. It captures a violent 90-second struggle by multiple officers to subdue the 40-year-old Pas, but it does not reveal how he died.

Almost immediately after the physical struggle ends, officers switch to providing medical care, seeking to turn Pas on his side, the footage shows. Within 30 seconds, they begin talking about a bag of drugs found nearby and share worries he was suffering an overdose.

An autopsy and toxicology investigation remains incomplete, said Sgt. Juan Valencia of the Sonoma County Sheriff’s Office, which is investigating the in-custody death.

Those investigations could be completed by mid-January, Valencia said. Multiple parties are reviewing the incident. Meanwhile, SRPD is investigating whether any of its departmental policies or procedures were violated.

That investigation will not conclude before the Sheriff’s Office completes its probe and the Sonoma County District Attorney determines whether any laws were broken, police officials said.

SRPD’s internal investigation is the first that will be overseen by OIR Group, a Los Angeles law firm, in its new role as the city’s police auditor.

OIR Group attorneys can sit in on internal affairs interviews with officers and have “unfettered access” to camera footage and other documents, SRPD spokesperson Sgt. Chris Mahurin said.

The group was hired the week after Pas’ death, filling a police auditor position that had been vacant for three years. In a brief email after this story initially published, Michael Gennaco, a founding principal partner of the group, said OIR will review the incident after SRPD completes its internal investigation.

Warning: Some readers may find portions of the following video disturbing.

This device is unable to display framed content. Click here to view this embed.

Some audio in the body camera footage published by police Tuesday was redacted under laws governing the confidentiality of medical information and evidence from an ongoing investigation, Mahurin said.

Still, while The Press Democrat previously published bystander footage, the body camera video is of far higher quality and offers multiple perspectives of the incident.

Sometime after 1 a.m. Nov. 18, residents along the Roseland street reported gunshots and a man walking through their neighborhood with a gun.

Footage shows Santa Rosa police officers converging about half a block from Peach Court and approaching on foot. The officers were armed with long guns, at least one shield and appear to have used a drone for reconnaissance.

In later conversations captured in the body camera footage, the commanding officer, Sgt. Matthew Crosbie, a 19-year veteran, says that the team considered itself responding to an “active shooter call.”

Upon arriving in the cul-de-sac they spot a shirtless man, who appears to have a rock in his hand.

Some of the nine officers shout orders for him to drop the rock as they call to each other, asking who has a “less lethal” weapon. One officer said they were there to help him. Officers shouted to deploy stun guns as they coordinated with each other over how to make the arrest.

An officer deployed a stun gun from several feet away, which allowed the remaining officers to converge on Pas.

A stun gun is used on Pas during the scuffle and, moments later, another is pressed against the side of his body for several seconds as the struggle continues.

After Pas is subdued on the ground, an officer advises fellow officers of a bag of drugs on the ground next to Pas. He said it was unclear if it was methamphetamine or fentanyl.

Other officers had to dash to their patrol vehicles to create access for paramedics who had just arrived at the scene.

Footage shows officers tending to Pas, who left a pool of blood on the street.

Exactly how he was injured is unclear. A minute after Pas was placed on his side, an officer checks for a pulse on Pas' neck and says he can’t feel one. He shakes Pas' chest several times.