Man arrested after fight outside Falmouth restaurant collapses in police custody, dies at hospital

A man arrested after a fight outside a popular Falmouth restaurant collapsed while in police custody and later died at a local hospital early Friday.Cape & Islands District Attorney Michael O'Keefe said that at about 12:15 a.m., police patrolling Main Street saw a fight break out in front of Anejo Mexican Bistro. An officer stopped his vehicle and tried to break up the fight between two men: 30-year-old Bruce Enos and 32-year-old Jarrod Scott-Reynolds. Both men were ultimately arrested and taken to the Falmouth Police Station. A police report states a witness told officers that Scott-Reynolds slapped Enos earlier in the evening inside the Quahog Republic Dive Bar. The men initially fought outside Quahog Republic before fighting again outside Anejo, which is about 1.5 miles away.Sources told NewsCenter 5's Rhondella Richardson that Enos and Scott-Reynolds were friends. Once at the station, Enos collapsed. According to O'Keefe, police immediately attended to him and summonsed Falmouth Rescue.Falmouth Rescue transported Enos to Falmouth Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Scott-Reynolds appeared in court Friday morning and was released after posting $5,000 cash bail.Members of Enos' family have questions as to why Enos collapsed before he was booked at the police station. An uncle told Richardson that Enos suffered from asthma.According to the police report, Scott-Reynolds had a bump on the head and taser wounds. Members of Enos' family told Richardson that Massachusetts State Police investigators said Enos did not have any taser marks.Enos' death is being investigated by state police detectives assigned to O'Keefe's office and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.

A man arrested after a fight outside a popular Falmouth restaurant collapsed while in police custody and later died at a local hospital early Friday.

Cape & Islands District Attorney Michael O'Keefe said that at about 12:15 a.m., police patrolling Main Street saw a fight break out in front of Anejo Mexican Bistro.

Advertisement

An officer stopped his vehicle and tried to break up the fight between two men: 30-year-old Bruce Enos and 32-year-old Jarrod Scott-Reynolds. Both men were ultimately arrested and taken to the Falmouth Police Station.

A police report states a witness told officers that Scott-Reynolds slapped Enos earlier in the evening inside the Quahog Republic Dive Bar. The men initially fought outside Quahog Republic before fighting again outside Anejo, which is about 1.5 miles away.

Sources told NewsCenter 5's Rhondella Richardson that Enos and Scott-Reynolds were friends.

Once at the station, Enos collapsed. According to O'Keefe, police immediately attended to him and summonsed Falmouth Rescue.

Falmouth Rescue transported Enos to Falmouth Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

Scott-Reynolds appeared in court Friday morning and was released after posting $5,000 cash bail.

Falmouth Police Dept. Jarrod Scott-Reynolds

Members of Enos' family have questions as to why Enos collapsed before he was booked at the police station. An uncle told Richardson that Enos suffered from asthma.

According to the police report, Scott-Reynolds had a bump on the head and taser wounds. Members of Enos' family told Richardson that Massachusetts State Police investigators said Enos did not have any taser marks.

Enos' death is being investigated by state police detectives assigned to O'Keefe's office and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner.