A Paterson man has been identified by family members as the victim in an officer-involved shooting that occurred in the city on Wednesday night.

Thelonious “RaRa” McKnight, 25, was killed when he was fatally shot by a Paterson police officer during an incident in the area of East Main Street and Hillman Street, family confirmed with outlet TapintoPaterson this week.

“He was a brother, a son, an uncle, a friend,” McKnight’s sister told the publication.

Details about the incident remain scarce. The New Jersey Attorney General’s Office, which is handling the investigation into the shooting, has yet to publicly identify McKnight as the man killed. Attempts by NJ Advance Media to reach family members were not successful.

Police claim they were investigating an earlier incident in the area of East Main Street and Hillman Street shortly before 9 p.m. when they encountered McKnight, according to a statement from the Attorney General’s Office.

During the encounter, one officer fired his gun and fatally wounded McKnight and police found a 9 mm handgun near his body, the office said. The office did not explain what prompted the shooting.

However, a pair of videos have circulated widely on social media, purportedly showing some of the incident.

A 2-minute clip from a security camera on East Main Street shows a man presumed to be McKnight standing on the sidewalk with two friends when a black vehicle pulls up next to the group, lights flashing. Three officers then exit the vehicle, approaching the men on the sidewalk. There is no sound, but the footage captures what appears to be a scuffle before officers draw their guns and pursue the men down an out-of-frame back alley.

A second video, presumed to be taken by one of the victim’s friends, shows officers apparently following McKnight down the Hillman Street alley. Several voices can be heard yelling, “don’t shoot” and “stop” while the witness behind the camera informs officers he is recording the incident.

The interaction between McKnight and officers is obscured, but seconds later, a cacophony of gunshots rings out and someone is seen laying on the ground. Someone can be heard yelling at police, “What did ya’ll do to my brother.”

Activists in Paterson have called for the Attorney General’s Office to provide more information about the fatal shooting. In a petition, family and community members are demanding the office release: any and all body camera or video footage, police reports and use of force reports, and the names of the officers involved.

The state Attorney General’s Office has not yet confirmed whether the officers involved in Wednesday’s shooting were wearing body cameras, but it has been reported they were not equipped with them at the time.

Paterson is still working to comply with a state-adopted law in 2020 that required all uniformed law enforcement officers in New Jersey to have body cameras by June 2021. Right now, only 150 officers in the patrol division and emergency response teams wear the recording devices, while 63% of the force remain without, according to reporting by The Record.

McKnight’s family has organized a GoFundMe to help pay for funeral and related costs.

Authorities have not announced charges against any of the officers involved in Wednesday’s shooting.

Local journalism needs your support. Subscribe at nj.com/supporter.

Jackie Roman may be reached at jroman@njadvancemedia.com.