A large police presence unfolded near a Del Taco restaurant on 4th Street in Beaumont early Friday morning.

NEWS CHANNEL 3

UPDATE:

The Riverside County Sheriffs Department (RSO) said on Thursday night deputies from the Perris Sheriff's station took a domestic violence call in an unincorporated area of Perris, Woodcrest. When deputies arrived, the male suspect in question was no longer on the scene.

It was learned the suspect had a felony warrant for a violation of an assault with a deadly weapon, domestic violence, kidnapping, vandalism, and a domestic violence restraining order violation.

Deputies said they then learned the suspect was in the area of the Interstate-10 freeway and Beaumont Ave in the city of Beaumont.

An RSO helicopter found the suspect's car on E 4th Street in Beaumont where other law enforcement agencies were called to help arrest the suspect. This included California Highway Patrol, Beaumont Police Department, and the Banning Police Department.

When officers located the suspect, he tried to flee the area by ramming his car into another bystander's car, along with several police vehicles as well.

There was an officer and deputy-involved shooting during this altercation according to RSO. It was also confirmed that an officer was trapped underneath a car.

The officer was transported to the nearest hospital and treated for non-life-threatening injuries.

There were several instances where officers and deputies tried to get the suspect to exit his vehicle, but after no movement, deputies approached the scene and discovered him dead.

The suspect's identity isn't being revealed until next of kin notification.

No other deputies or officers were injured.

ORIGINAL STORY:

An unknown type of incident turned into a "deputy-officer-involved shooting," according to a spokesperson for the Riverside County Sheriff's Department (RSO).

RSO said an investigation is ongoing in the 400 block of E 4th Street in Beaumont.

The suspect involved in the incident has been reported to be dead. An officer was also injured during the incident according to RSO.

We are currently investigating an OIS/DIS which occurred this morning around 1:20AM in the 400 Block of E 4th Street, city of Beaumont. Suspect is deceased. An officer was injured during the incident; there are no outstanding suspects or danger to the public. — Riverside County Sheriff's Dept (@RSO) December 31, 2021

Several roads in the area were blocked off for hours.

Caltrans tweeted out that there is a road closure involving the incident.

RIVCO: EB I-10 Beaumont Ave off ramp to SR-79 at 1st St, Beaumont. Beaumont Ave off ramp closed due to police activity. Unknown duration to clear. #Caltrans8 — Caltrans District 8 (@Caltrans8) December 31, 2021

News Channel 3 is awaiting more details from the sheriff's department, which is handling the investigation.