ESCONDIDO -- David and Mercedes Browning remembered their sonThursday as a risk taker, sensitive and caring.

They also said they have no ill will toward the sheriff’sdeputies who fatally shot 22-year-old Matthew Browning on Wednesdaywhen he allegedly pointed a loaded gun at them twice outside thefamily home on Jesmond Dene Road, just north of Escondido.

The couple said they did everything they could to try to helptheir son after he began abusing drugs.

Advertisement

“There’s no blame,” Mercedes Browning said about the shooting.”Everybody was very compassionate. They did what they had to do,kept us posted as far as they could. They protected us.”

She preferred to talk about the cute 2-year-old boy who carriedhis own bed roll on a trip to Hawaii. Six months later, the mothersaid, her son challenged the tough hillside driveway on histrike.

As the former church altar server and Boy Scout grew, DavidBrowning said, Matthew built bicycle jumps in the yard.

“He was a risk taker on the jumps,” said the father. “He builtthe biggest one first. I said, ‘Build the smallest one first.’ Hesaid ‘No, if I can take the big one, I know I can take the smallerones.’”

Matthew wanted to become a chef, Mercedes Browning said.

“He made great sandwiches,” she said. “He was always cookingsomething up. He especially liked hot dishes.”

The young man hadn’t lived at the home recently, said neighborRoy Wyman, an 84-year-old retired pastor.

“He was a bright young man with a lot of potential, but he gotinto drugs,” Wyman said.

Wyman said he had counseled with the family during the last fiveor six years as they struggled with Matthew’s drug abuse and theproblems that came with it. The Brownings tried everything possibleto get their son off drugs, he said.

“There’s just so much you can do,” said Wyman. “They’ve beensterling parents as far as trying to get help for him andthemselves.”

The Brownings acknowledged that they tried the best hospitals,doctors and other ways to help Matthew.

On Wednesday morning, authorities said, it was Mercedes Browningwho called 911 for help.

She told arriving deputies that her son was damaging things inthe house, that he was possibly suicidal and that he was armed witha handgun, said sheriff’s homicide Lt. Terry Wisniewski.

As deputies were surrounding the house, he said, MatthewBrowning came out holding a handgun. Wisniewski said Browning wouldnot obey commands to put down the weapon, pointing it instead atdeputies, who fired at him.

“He’s at peace now,” Mercedes Browning said.

Contact staff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 740-3524 orjmoreland@nctimes.com.