Thursday, February 19, 2004

Shooter identified in Torrington

TORRINGTON - Police have identified a man who died after exchanging shots with a police officer.

Police say Luis Vazquez, 49, fired at least two shots from a pistol at a Goshen County sheriff's deputy, wounding the officer in the left arm.

Deputy Paul Smith was responding to a domestic disturbance call Sunday evening.

Smith returned fire, and Vazquez died at the scene after he was struck by a bullet in the upper torso, police say.

According to a release from Goshen County Attorney Patrick Korell, a second deputy arrived about two minutes after Smith and immediately requested medical assistance.

Smith, 40, is listed in stable condition at Regional West Medical Center in Scottsbluff, Neb.

Vazquez reportedly was recently estranged from his wife and had traveled from Scottsbluff before the incident.

After standard procedure, Smith, who has been with the Goshen County Sheriff's Office since May 1995, is on paid administrative leave while the case is being reviewed by the Wyoming Department of Criminal Investigation.

Former official waives hearing

SHERIDAN - A former Sheridan County deputy treasurer charged with stealing more than $7,000 in tax money waived her right to a preliminary hearing.

Mary Kathleen Legerski, 43, made her initial appearance in court before Circuit Judge John Sampson Tuesday. She is charged with two counts of larceny by bailee.

Court documents state that while Legerski was entrusted with the control of tax dollars paid through the treasurer's office, she allegedly stole more than $7,000 in the late 1990s through mid-2001.

Defense Attorney Greg Goddard did not indicate in court why Legerski planned to waive her preliminary hearing.

During such hearings, a judge determines whether a crime was likely committed, and that probable cause exists that the crime was committed by the defendant.

Wyoming Air Guard members leave

CHEYENNE - The first group of Wyoming Air National Guard members being deployed to the Kuwait area for a two-year mission in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom left Tuesday.

The mission calls for Wyoming Air National Guard personnel and equipment to rotate in and out of the area to provide airlift support for U.S. forces.

"Although many details remain classified for the safety of our personnel, we know Wyoming's residents will continue to show support for our personnel and their families, and for that we thank them," said Col. Harold Reed, 153rd Airlift Wing commander.

The first personnel rotation may occur within the next few months. The Wyoming Air National Guard has more than 1,000 men and women assigned.

The 153rd Airlift Wing, located in Cheyenne, is the host unit for the organization.

Noise limit gets approval

LARAMIE - Residents wary of construction noise spoke in support of a city ordinance that would limit when contractors can make the most sound.

On Tuesday, council members narrowly approved a proposal to limit construction noise in residential areas to 50 decibels between 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Air conditioners and washing machines register at about 50 decibels.

"Citizens understand that during a 12-hour work day, they have to tolerate some noise," said Councilwoman Jeanette Reisenburg. "But at some point, it has to shut down."

Other council members objected to the ordinance, saying it could slow down some construction projects.

The ordinance makes an exception for construction-related emergencies, like utility-line breaks.

The ordinance must pass two more readings and receive a public hearing before it could become official.

Delegation backs lab plan

LARAMIE - The possible move of a $100 million federal research laboratory here has the support of the Wyoming congressional delegation, Sen. Craig Thomas, R-Wyo., said.

Congress has yet to approve the building of the animal disease laboratory, which could mean more than 30 new jobs and a $10 million economic impact for Laramie.

Thomas said the Wyoming delegation is urging others in Congress to approve Laramie as the laboratory's future location.

"Hopefully it will be. It's a good idea," Thomas said. "I think there is justification for it being here, not only because we want it here, but also because the weather and altitude seem to fit its needs."

However, other cities are also vying for the new lab, if it's approved. The latest competitors include Fort Collins, Colo.; Davis, Calif.; and Fort Dietrich, Md.

But Laramie's location makes it a prime contender.

Cold temperatures make it difficult for viruses to escape the lab and the remote location reduces risk of human infection.

Thomas made his comments in a meeting with Laramie residents Tuesday.

Utah men arrested in explosives case

CHEYENNE- Two men reportedly from Utah were arrested after explosives were found in a trailer on Interstate 80.

The two men were arrested and jailed.

The Wyoming Highway Patrol said a Dodge Durango pulling a U-Haul trailer was stopped at about 5:15 p.m. Monday for driving erratically about 10 miles east of Cheyenne.

A search of the trailer found a misdemeanor amount of drugs and several explosive devices, police said.

Eastbound traffic was detoured onto an outer road for about six hours.

The men, who were not identified, were arrested on preliminary charges of possession of controlled substances and possession of deadly weapons with intent.

Salt Lake City television station KTVX quoted police as saying the two were from Utah and had ties to a militia group. It said both men were wanted on warrants from Utah.

The station also said the truck and trailer had been rented in Utah and that federal Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents from Utah were involved in the investigation.

Judge denies CBM reservoir injunction

CASPER - A judge has refused to stop the use of reservoirs to hold discharged coal-bed methane water.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has been issuing permits that provide automatic approval of in-stream dams used to contain coal-bed water in reservoirs. Wells gather the methane after underground water is pumped to the surface.

The Wyoming Outdoor Council, Earthjustice and others argued that the permit allows the industry to bypass close public scrutiny of individual construction projects and sought an injunction to stop the corps from issuing them.

Attorneys for the corps argued that the permit is necessary to avoid long regulatory delays. They also assured that the structures are not free of regulatory scrutiny.

U.S. District Judge William Downes ruled that the permits are not an eminent or immediate threat to Wyoming landowners or the environment.

"The court also noted that operators most likely cooperate with landowners on where the construction of these reservoirs needs to be," said John Robitaille, vice president of the Petroleum Association of Wyoming.

Neil Levine, an Earthjustice attorney, said the plaintiffs must now decide whether to take the request for injunction to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.

UW looking for new dean of business

LARAMIE - The University of Wyoming is looking for a new dean for its College of Business.

Four candidates vying for the position will visit the university in the next two weeks. The candidates will hold public forums that will be available for viewing around the state.

The four finalists are David Campbell, who is finishing a three-year assignment with Ernst and Young in Germany; Brent Hathaway, current UW College of Business interim dean; Anthony (Tony) Hendrickson, Iowa State University College of Business associate dean of academic programs; and Charles (Stan) Madden, the Ben H. Williams Professor of Marketing at the Hankamer School of Business, Baylor University.

UW is seeking a replacement for Ken Griffin, who retired after more than 30 years with the university.

Open forums with each candidate, followed by a question and answer session, will be held in Room 105 of the UW Classroom Building and at UW compressed video sites around the state.