The man who was shot and killed by police Tuesday morning at the Red Caboose Daycare Center has been identified as Gregory E. Velasquez.

The officers involved have also been identified as Officers Phil Yahnke and Shane Pueschner. Both are veteran officers of the Madison Police Department. Officer Yahnke has been with the department since 1988, while Pueschner has been with the department since 1983.

Further information was released Wednesday by the police department regarding the exact actions of the officers; however, the investigation continues.

According to the police report, the two officers confronted Velasquez, 39, inside the daycare while he was holding two meat cleavers. After the officers made several attempts to persuade the man to drop the weapons, the man “made a movement that placed persons inside in immediate threat of their lives.” The officers were then forced to shoot the suspect, according to a statement from the police department. The police have recovered from the scene of the crime eight shell casings from the officers’ handguns.

Police Chief Richard Williams said in a press conference Tuesday the officers made the “appropriate decision” in using deadly force and deemed the officers’ decision to shoot the man “justifiable.”

District Attorney Brian Blanchard said at the press conference it was clear the officers at the scene responded “swiftly and appropriately” and the actions of the officers will be reviewed from the 911 tape that captured the entire incident and from the numerous witnesses at the scene.

After the incident, Mayor Dave Cieslewicz released a statement applauding the heroic actions of the police officers.

The 55-year-old worker who was wounded by Velasquez has been identified as Gary Dosemagen. To protect the children inside the daycare, Dosemagen received multiple wounds to the head, shoulder and arm by being attacked with the meat cleaver, according to the statement from the police department.

According to The Wisconsin State Journal, parents of children at the daycare estimated five children between the ages of two and four were witness to the police shooting. However, they were told to put their heads down and teachers were blocking their view of the shooting.

According to the police department, the Rainbow Project, Dane County Mental Health and the Dane County District Attorney’s Victim Assistance have provided help for families involved in the incident.