Estimated read time: 2-3 minutes

This archived news story is available only for your personal, non-commercial use. Information in the story may be outdated or superseded by additional information. Reading or replaying the story in its archived form does not constitute a republication of the story.

Sandra Yi reportingPolice shot and killed a man in West Valley City early this morning.

Officers say the suspect, 24-year-old Donald Neuman, was armed. He had opened fire at a police officer early this week.

Police got a tip that Neuman would be at a friends' home this morning. When they arrived, they saw him pacing outside.

Moments later, shots were fired by both the suspect and officers.

Christopher Haws: "I was just wondering what was going on. It was kind of scary."

Christopher Haws saw police surround the house.

Christopher Haws/ Neighbor: "When they came up to the house, I heard, 'Get down on the ground.' I heard two gunshots, then I heard 18 or more right after another."

Investigators say Neuman was armed. They say evidence shows he fired at least one round with his gun. Eight officers opened fire, hitting Neuman multiple times.

Cindy McClees/ Neighbor: "IT was pretty obvious he was dead immediately, and he hit the ground. There were several shots fired after he hit the ground."

Tony Walker/ Neighbor: "It seemed like they fired a lot of rounds, but you've got to think again that he was armed. He did have a weapon of his own, so they were defending themselves and everyone else in the area."

Bullets also hit two vehicles parked nearby. No one else was hurt in the crossfire.

Asst. Chief Craig Gibson/ West Valley City Police Dept.: "He made his choices and he basically se the rules. Unfortunately, we ended up having to go with his rules."

Police have been actively looking for Neuman since Monday. That's when he fired several shots at a West Valley City police officer who tried to pull him over on a traffic stop.

Police later found a threatening note in the car, that said Neuman would not go down without a fight.

Craig Gibson: "We also learned that he had made comments that he was still going to shoot it out with police, and he was attempting to find an automatic weapon."

Neighbors were concerned for the kids in the area. They say several children saw the aftermath. They say the suspect's naked body was left outside for several hours.

Cindy McClees: "It's unfortunate that it all had to happen and the community had to see that."

Police say they tried to be as sensitive as they could. They say, it's routine to not cover a body to preserve evidence.

A total of eight officers from Salt Lake County and West Valley City are on paid administrative leave pending the investigation.

×

Most recent Utah stories