The shooting victim posed a danger to his wife, the district attorney finds.

District Attorney Tim Harris ruled Wednesday that Saturday's fatal shooting by a Tulsa police officer was justified.

Bertoldo Lovaton-Anorade, 32, died late Saturday after being shot once in the side by Officer Darren Glanz. Glanz had been responding to a domestic abuse call at 632 S. Quincy Ave. when he was confronted by a man brandishing a butcher knife.

The fatal shot was fired when the armed man, who witnesses said had been drinking for 10 hours prior to the shooting, posed a danger to his wife, Harris found.

Glanz was the first officer on the scene responding to a 911 call from a friend of Iva Lovaton's, who said the woman was being beaten by her husband, Bertoldo Lovaton-Anorade. After Glanz entered the building, he heard the high-pitched, hysterical scream of a woman, Harris wrote in his decision.

Glanz managed to make out the words "help" and "oh, my God."

Glanz saw Lovaton-Anorade walking away from him and then turn around and walk toward him. Glanz repeatedly commanded him in both English and Spanish to "stop" and to "drop the knife."

As the man approached him, Glanz backed up. Lovaton-Anorade got to about seven feet from the officer before he turned and entered the apartment where the screaming woman was located, Harris wrote.

"As he opened the door, it appeared to Officer Glanz that the screams were becoming louder and more intense," Harris said. "As Mr. Lovaton started into the apartment, Officer Glanz made the decision to shoot Mr. Lovaton."

Two minutes had elapsed from the time Glanz approached the apartment to the time he notified the police dispatcher of the status of the situation, according to Harris. Harris said Glanz had only a split second to decide whether he would allow Lovaton- Anorade to enter the apartment.

Harris said the District Attorney's Office has verified that Lovaton-Anorade has been in this country several years and understands some English. He has also come in contact with Tulsa police officers in uniform in the past and can recognize their uniforms.

"Officer Glanz discharged his service weapon believing that he had no other reasonable options considering the safety of the woman screaming and the potential that Mr. Lovaton was getting ready to take her life," Harris wrote.

According to Harris, Glanz was acting within the scope of state statute by using deadly force in this situation, and no criminal charges were warranted.

"Based upon the information coming in to Officer Glanz at the scene and his perception of a direct deadly threat to another's personal safety, it is the ruling of the Tulsa County district attorney that his use of deadly force was reasonable under his perceived circumstances," Harris concluded.

Glanz, who has been on paid administrative leave, will be returned to the department's active duty roster, police Officer Lucky Lamons said.

Nicole Marshall, World staff writer, can be reached at 581-8459 or via e-mail at nicole.marshall@tulsaworld.com .