CARTER LAKE - The Carter Lake Police Department is reviewing its chase policy following a Saturday pursuit into Omaha that left three people dead and the man being chased seriously injured. The department had no comment on the case, but indicated it would issue a statement later today. The police pursued Steven Halbert, 19, from his 1215 E. Locust St. residence at about 1 a.m. Saturday after he fled in a stolen Chevrolet S-10 Blazer, Omaha police reported.

CARTER LAKE - The Carter Lake Police Department is reviewing its chase policy following a Saturday pursuit into Omaha that left three people dead and the man being chased seriously injured.

The department had no comment on the case, but indicated it would issue a statement later today.

The police pursued Steven Halbert, 19, from his 1215 E. Locust St. residence at about 1 a.m. Saturday after he fled in a stolen Chevrolet S-10 Blazer, Omaha police reported.

Carter Lake Police were at the residence after being told of alleged child molestation charges against Halbert, Omaha police said.

Omaha police reported that a high-speed chase ensued. At 16th and Fort Streets in Omaha, the suspect's vehicle, traveling at high speed, struck two Harley Davidson motorcycles.

The drivers, Michael Rock, 50, and Terry Partain, 51, both of Omaha, were killed, as was Yvonne Campbell, 42, of Council Bluffs. She was a passenger on Partain's bike. Halbert was ejected from the Blazer after it flipped in the air and collided with a parked semitrailer. He remains at the Nebraska Medical Center. A center spokesperson said his condition is not being released.

Omaha police indicated he was in critical condition Saturday with internal injuries and broken bones.

Efforts to reach Halbert's family were unsuccessful as of this morning.

Pottawattamie County Attorney Matt Wilber said Halbert would be charged with possession of a stolen vehicle and felony eluding, in addition to any charges the Douglas County Attorney might file. Since the deaths occurred in Omaha, that office would have jurisdiction over any charges that might be filed relating to the crash and fatalities, Wilber said.

Omaha police said the accident remains under investigation. The Associated Press reported Halbert was wanted on a felony warrant in Nebraska for failing to appear for sentencing last month on a drug conviction. Omaha police said it was not known at this time if Halbert was under the influence at the time of the chase.

Visitation and funeral for Campbell is scheduled for 7 p.m. on Wednesday at Cutler-O'Neill-Meyer-Woodring Funeral Home. A burial Mass for Rock will be held Wednesday at 10 a.m. at St. Richard Catholic Church in Omaha. A wake service will be held at the church on Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Services for Partain are pending.

- Staff writer Courtney Brummer and the Associated Press contributed to this story