An eight-year veteran of the Baltimore County police force was put on routine administrative leave after fatally shooting a man who pointed a shotgun at officers late Wednesday night in Arbutus, police said.

Officers had been called to the house on Circle Drive about 11:30 p.m. to investigate reports that shots had been fired. A domestic dispute had apparently escalated to the point that Adrian Matthew Painter, 51, had grabbed a shotgun, said Officer Shawn Vinson, a spokesman for the Police Department.

Advertisement

When Painter walked onto the porch with the gun, officers yelled for him to put down the weapon, but he instead raised it and pointed it at them, Vinson said.

Officer Bradley Tippin, 28, of the Wilkens Precinct fired one shot, striking the man in his upper body, Vinson said. No one else was injured, according to police.

Advertisement

Painter was taken to St. Agnes HealthCare, where he was pronounced dead at 12:19 a.m. yesterday, Vinson said.

Police were awaiting an autopsy report from the state medical examiner's office to determine whether Painter had been under the influence of drugs or alcohol.

A woman who answered the phone yesterday at Painter's house hung up when a reporter identified herself.

State tax assessment records show the two-story home on Circle Drive is owned by Adrian and Kristina Painter.

Neighbors said the Painter family had moved to the Arbutus neighborhood about two years ago and had mostly kept to themselves.

Sunny Bullock, who lives next door to the Painters, said the couple has a college-age son and a college-age daughter.

"They seem like nice enough people," she said. "It's just a shame this had to happen."

This was the first officer-involved shooting of the year in Baltimore County, Vinson said. Last year there were four, two of them fatal, he said.

Advertisement

In October, two second-year officers in the Woodlawn Precinct, Nate J. McDougall, 24, and Maurice H. Hoppert, 25, shot and killed Emanuel T. Williams. Police said the 22-year-old man had fired numerous shots at them.

In Essex, a Honduran immigrant who some neighbors said did not speak English was shot and killed in July by a nine-year veteran of the force.

Officer Mark A. Noppenberger fired two shots, killing Franciso Antonio Perez, 22. Police said the man charged toward the officer with a knife that he refused to drop.

The Baltimore County state's attorney's office ruled both fatal shootings justified.

After the Police Department completes its internal review of Wednesday's shooting, the state's attorney's office will make a ruling on that one also, Vinson said.