MARYSVILLE — A 27-year-old Tacoma man was shot and killed by Snohomish County sheriff's deputies yesterday after he took a 1-year-old boy hostage and held a knife to the child's throat.

The child was not seriously injured. One deputy, a seven-year veteran of the force, has been put on paid administrative leave pending an investigation, sheriff's spokeswoman Jan Jorgensen said.

Cory A. Edmon allegedly forced his way into his girlfriend's Marysville apartment Thursday night and grabbed the child.

Before fleeing, the child's mother had dialed 911 to report that a knife-wielding man was trying to get inside her home, Jorgensen said.

When Marysville police officers responded to the duplex, in the 6300 block of 73rd Place Northeast, at about 10 p.m., Edmon allegedly told them that if they came inside he would kill the boy. For the next two hours, police and Snohomish County sheriff's negotiators tried to persuade him to release the child. He responded by dangling the boy from the balcony of the second-floor apartment and holding a knife to the baby's throat, Jorgensen said.

"This child's life was clearly in danger," Jorgensen said.

Shortly after midnight, the sheriff's Special Emergency Response Team stormed into the apartment and shot Edmon. He died soon after.

Jorgensen wouldn't say how many shots were fired, where Edmon was shot or whether he was holding the baby at the time. She said he never threatened to harm police.

Everett police spokesman Sgt. Boyd Bryant said his department is spearheading an investigation of the shooting. A countywide rule requires that an outside agency look into officer-involved shootings.

A neighbor, who asked not to be identified, said sheriff's deputies were inside the apartment less than a minute before they walked out with the baby. She said she had heard the intruder threaten to dismember the child and hang him in a noose.

Jorgensen said the boy sustained scrapes and scratches, and was quickly reunited with his mother, who was outside with police. Thursday night's 911 call was the second time in less than a week that police were summoned to the woman's apartment. Edmon was arrested by Marysville police last Saturday for criminal trespass and domestic violence. He was supposed to be arraigned on the charges Tuesday.

A spokeswoman for the state Department of Corrections said Edmon served five years in prison for first-degree robbery and was released in May 2001.

Sheri Engberg, who lives in a house next to the apartment, said her family was awakened by the sound of gunfire yesterday. She said she watched as officers arrested Edmon last weekend.

The neighborhood was relatively quiet yesterday afternoon, but a visible reminder of the standoff was a birthday cake splattered on a concrete walkway leading to the front door of the woman's apartment, the cake's inscription of "Happy 1st Birthday" still visible.

The last deadly shooting by law officers in Snohomish County was in June.

Harold McCord Jr., 36, was shot seven times in a relative's Monroe apartment June 24, one day after he fled from the Pierce County Courthouse. The "three strikes" felon was facing life in prison when he escaped using a fake gun made of cardboard and toilet paper.

King County will hold an inquest beginning April 29 into the circumstances surrounding McCord's death at the hands of a team that included Monroe and Bothell police officers.

Jennifer Sullivan: 425-783-0604 or jensullivan@seattletimes.com

Peyton Whitely: 206-464-2258 or pwhitely@seattletimes.com