Associated Press Suspect killed by deputy

GLENDIVE A young Glendive police officer was in a Billings hospital Tuesday after being wounded in a shootout Monday evening. A Dawson County sheriff's deputy killed the man who shot her.

Mike Batista, head of the Criminal Investigation Division in the Department of Justice, said Glendive police were trying to stop a man they wanted to question.

"The suspect was spotted and attempted to evade law enforcement. They ultimately were able to stop the vehicle," Batista said.

"The suspect fired shots at the officers. … A female officer was struck. An officer with the sheriff's department returned fire, killing the suspect."

Batista said officer Katie Hagemo was shot in both legs and was taken to a Billings hospital. Hagemo, who is 23 and completed Dawson Community College's law enforcement program little more than a year ago, was in stable condition.

A dispatcher at the Glendive Police Department said Tuesday that the wounded officer was "doing well," but said all information about the case had to come from the Justice Department. Batista's department is investigating the shooting.

Batista said investigators were awaiting positive identification of the dead man. He said he believed the man was from the Glendive area, but had not been there long. "Some information suggests ties to other communities," Batista said.

He did not reveal the name of the sheriff's deputy who shot the man or the exact circumstances of the shooting.

"The initial information suggests the suspect was wanted for questioning by local authorities," Batista said. "Local authorities located the suspect. The suspect attempted to evade law enforcement. Eventually the suspect and vehicle were stopped. That's when the shooting occurred."

This is the fourth shooting involving law enforcement officers in Montana in seven weeks.

David Theodore Morgan, 38, is charged with three counts of attempted murder for a June 28 shootout near Victor. Montana Highway Patrol officer Tom Hamilton was hit in the elbow by a bullet that ricocheted off his bulletproof vest. Morgan was shot in the leg.

On June 3, a Gallatin County sheriff's deputy fatally wounded Tommy Miller, 48, after Miller shot and killed his estranged wife, Leanne Miller, 42.

And on May 24, Livingston and Park County officers shot and killed Bradley Harlan Pingree, 33, as he allegedly pointed a rifle at officers.