Chicago police and lawyers for Lawrence Watson have different views of how and why the Richton Park man was struck by a squad car this month in Englewood, an incident that claimed his life.

Police said they arrived at the spot where Watson had crashed his Mercedes into a tree on April 2, and they chased him on foot and in cars when he ran away. The 29-year-old darted into the street from between two parked cars as he fled, and he was accidentally hit by a police car, police spokesman David Bayless said.

Advertisement

Although they have not filed a suit yet, lawyers for Watson are beginning to take legal action on behalf of him and his family, saying Watson was intentionally hit by a police officer trying to stop him. Watson, who owned a trucking business in Berkeley and was studying for a bachelor's degree, succumbed to his injuries Monday, lawyer Frank Himel said.

"At the very most, [Watson] was leaving the scene of an accident," Himel said. "That certainly doesn't justify somebody running you over with a squad car."

Advertisement

Stefan Starling, a cousin who was with Watson, has told Himel that Watson was intentionally struck as the men were heading to his home.

"They were chasing him, and they hit him," Himel said. "There are a few circumstances where I guess that would be acceptable, but it would absolutely be at a time when the person posed some immediate risk to the officer" behind the wheel.

"I don't think jogging off to your cousin's house is one of those reasons."

Members of Watson's family are incensed. His older sister, Latonya Watson of Bellwood, said her family would go to any length to make sure the police version of events is challenged.

"We are not a thug family, and my brother did not deserve this," Watson said. "The manner in which we lost him was not acceptable. It was criminal. I will fight to make sure justice is done, to my last breath."

Bayless said that when police arrived at 71st Street and Princeton Avenue, they found a Mercedes had hit a tree, and two men were standing nearby talking to a tow-truck driver. When the men saw the squad car, they ran, he said.

An officer on foot chased Watson down the sidewalk in the 7100 block of Harvard Avenue as a squad car pursued on the street, Bayless said. At about 7123 S. Harvard, Watson left the sidewalk and ran between two parked cars into the street, running into the moving squad car.

He collided with the front quarter panel on the car's passenger side, tumbled over the hood, striking the windshield, and then rolled off into a parked car, Bayless said.

Advertisement

Himel said Watson was jogging across a vacant lot toward Starling after paying the tow-truck driver, when two squad cars moved in from opposite directions on Harvard.

Watson, a father of two, was cited for driving under the influence while in a coma at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Himel said. Starling was wanted on a traffic warrant, Himel said.

Watson has weapons arrests in his background and a drug conviction in the '90s, but his family said he sometimes carried a gun only for protection while handling trucking business in dangerous areas.

Her brother was a model citizen, Watson said, and 500 people attended his funeral at a Baptist church on the South Side.

Her brother grew up in Englewood but rose above his circumstances to own a business. He was bright and had a joking personality, she said.

Watson "was the life of the party," she said.

Advertisement

Bayless said the incident remains under investigation by the police major accidents unit, and he could not immediately say whether Internal Affairs has opened a case.

Meanwhile, lawyers for Watson have filed an emergency petition asking that 911 tapes, reports and other evidence in the incident be preserved. A judge in Cook County Circuit Court has issued a protective order for the evidence.