CHEYENNE - A 25-year-old Cheyenne man died early Sunday in a police chase here when the driver of the car in which he was riding crashed into a parked car and ejected the man, who died at the scene.

The Wyoming Highway Patrol, which is investigating the wreck, identified the victim as Paul Reynolds.

Charges are pending against 22-year-old Christopher Miller of Cheyenne, the driver of a 2001 Chevrolet Blazer police were pursuing on reports of a hit-and-run and suspected drunken driving, said Highway Patrol Sgt. Steven Townsend.

Meanwhile, authorities in Johnson County on Friday charged a 15-year-old Colorado boy with attempted murder for his role in a high-speed chase that injured another teen and a sheriff's deputy April 16 east of Buffalo.

In the Cheyenne case, Townsend said, Miller remains hospitalized at United Medical Center West in Cheyenne and has not yet been brought up on criminal charges.

Also injured in the crash was Miller's other passenger, Daylan Medley, 23, of Cheyenne.

Townsend said police found and chased the Miller vehicle northbound on Russell Street for about five blocks before the Blazer ran into a parked, unoccupied 1983 Cadillac near 22nd Street at 12:09 a.m. Sunday.

"After impact, the Miller vehicle rolled, and Reynolds was ejected from the vehicle during the rollover," Townsend said. "None of the occupants was wearing a seat belt."

He added that investigators are looking into alcohol as a contributor to the crash.

Cheyenne police did not issue a press release regarding the crash, although they do with many wrecks, and they referred questions about the incident to the Highway Patrol.

Townsend would not name the police officer or officers involved in the chase, saying that information would have to come from Cheyenne police.

Meanwhile, in Buffalo, David Allen Delaney, of Centennial, Colo., was charged as an adult with attempted murder in Johnson County circuit court. He remained at a juvenile corrections center in Casper on $250,000 bond, the Buffalo Bulletin reported Friday.

Delaney was originally charged with aggravated assault and battery in the April 16 chase that started with an alleged gas drive off in Buffalo, police said.

According to court documents, the station owner took off in pursuit of Delaney's vehicle. The teen soon exited Interstate 90 onto a road east of Buffalo with the station owner and sheriff's Deputy Paul Kozisek following behind him.

Kozisek stopped his Dodge Durango in a ditch next to the road, but was hit head-on by Delaney's vehicle after the teen turned around, police said. Authorities estimate Delaney was driving 70 to 75 mph.

"When the suspect was 150 to 160 feet from Paul, he intentionally left the roadway and struck Paul's vehicle head-on," said Sheriff Steve Kozisek, the deputy's father.

Delaney and his 13-year-old unidentified passenger were both injured in the crash. Kozisek suffered several broken ribs, a broken leg and a partially amputated finger, but has been released from the hospital.

"It could have been a lot worse," Sheriff Kozisek said. "I am sorry that it happened but I am also very pleased that no one was hurt worse than they were."

Police were considering charges against the gas station owner for allegedly initiating the chase.