Md. Family Grieves for Mentally Ill Man

Schizophrenic Died After Being Subdued by Officers; No Wrongdoing Found By David Snyder

Washington Post Staff Writer

Saturday, June 26, 2004; Page B02 Affectionately called "the walker" for his long rambles through the Washington Grove neighborhood where he was raised and where he lived with his 80-year-old mother, Eric Wolle was well-known for the conversations he had with himself. On the afternoon of April 27, they had an unusually unpleasant tone, neighbors and family members recalled. Neighbors took notice when they saw Wolle, a diagnosed bipolar schizophrenic, arguing vigorously with "voices" no one else could hear. Normally, he listened calmly. When Montgomery County police arrived about 9:30 that night, Wolle, 45, had descended into his deepest fears, recalled his older brother, Eduardo Wolle. Long paranoid that the CIA and FBI wanted to take him away, he believed that the police had come to kill him. Within an hour, Wolle was dead. His 6-foot-4, 275-pound frame had been subdued by seven police officers and two blasts from electric stun devices called Tasers. A Montgomery County grand jury on Thursday cleared the officers of criminal wrongdoing in Wolle's death. His brother describes the death as "the third time we lost him." The first time was nearly 20 years ago, when Eric Wolle's mental illness was diagnosed. After that, his brother said, he "just lay down for a year." Then his condition improved. The second time the family lost him was in 1993, when he had another episode and attacked his father, Frank Wolle, who obtained a restraining order against him. It was the only time police were dispatched to the Wolle house, police said, until the night of Eric Wolle's death. Since attacking his father, Wolle had received little treatment, his brother said. He lived with his mother, Dolores Wolle. He did not work. He wrote letters to the ACLU and the Republican National Committee, saying the police were coming to get him. The terror that apparently had been haunting Wolle the day he died escalated when a car carrying Chinese delivery food parked in front of the Wolle house, in the 400 block of Washington Grove Lane, just before 9 that night. The driver left the headlights on and ran next door to deliver food. Family members said Wolle apparently believed the car carried agents coming to take him away. He pushed his mother and ran out of the house. "He was very upset, and I felt it was best to leave the house," Dolores Wolle said. "It was best not to ask him any questions." She ran next door and told the neighbors, who called police. When officers arrived, Wolle had a machete in his belt -- a gift he had received when he was a boy -- and was screaming that the police would never take him alive. CONTINUED 1 2 Next > Print This Article

© 2004 The Washington Post Company