A routine Friday night patrol turned violent for Officer Chris Ford. It started at the B-P gas station on Highway 231 in Ozark. An angry Eric Boykin walked inside and shot 37-year old Danny McLeod.

"These two guys were arguing over a woman," says Ozark Police Chief Tony Spivey.

From the B-P station, Boykin drove to a nearby neighborhood to find the woman in question. Boykin found her and tried to shoot her but his gun jammed. The woman got away. Boykin at that point got his gun working again and started shooting at anything and at anybody right in the middle of a neighborhood fish fry.

"When we heard the shots, I ran inside," says Isolene Patterson, who saw the whole thing.

"He just came in here and started shooting at anybody. I think he was upset over the fact that she was going with somebody else," says Patterson.

After about 20 seconds of non-stop shooting, Boykin fled the area and quickly found himself in a high speed chase with 5 law enforcement agencies. An hour later, it all came to a bloody end on state highway 51 near Elamville. This is where Eric Boykin died and where Officer Ford survived, thanks to a vest that stopped a bullet aimed at his heart.

"A state trooper involved in the chase put down stop sticks and that stopped Boykin. Officer Ford approached the vehicle and Boykin started firing. The 4 shots knocked Boykin down but he got up and returned fire along with two other officers," says Chief Spivey.

In charge of the police department's K-9 unit, Ford is on the road to recovery at Dale Medical Center. Ford did receive gunshot wounds to his left forearm and shoulder.

The investigation into the shooting is in the hands of Alabama Bureau of Investigations. 3 Ozark police officers including Ford are on administrative leave with pay which is standard procedure in something like this. Chief Spivey says he has no doubt his men did the right thing.

Elamville is a very rural part of Alabama. With no ambulance close by, a state trooper on the scene rushed Ford to Dale Medical Center.

Reporter: Bryan Henry