Chicago Police on Wednesday said two of its officers had called off the chase of a man who blew through a red light several minutes before the man collided with another car, killing its 51-year-old driver.

The man, 25, of the Southwest Side, was hospitalized at Mt. Sinai Hospital Wednesday afternoon with a broken leg and blunt trauma, and could now face charges of vehicular homicide and driving under the influence.

Advertisement

Police said tests showed the man had traces of cannabis, PCP and cocaine in his system at the time of the accident, which killed Dalia Santillana, of the 2700 block of South Kostner Avenue, just after 10 p.m. Tuesday as she drove home from her job at a steel wool plant.

Chicago Police officials said Wednesday that department policies were followed by the officers.

Advertisement

"Somebody that flagrant needs to be stopped," said police spokesman Pat Camden, noting the man had sped through a red light and was driving erratically. "The officers did exactly what they were supposed to do. They announced that they were in a pursuit, and a supervisor monitored it. They conformed to all department policies, rules and regulations."

The incident began about 10:10 p.m. Tuesday as the two officers were stopped at a red light at 26th Street and Central Park Avenue. Camden said the officers noticed a 1987 Chevy Caprice approaching from the rear and driving erratically, then cut around the officers' squad and through the red light.

Camden said the officers put on their lights and chased the man for several blocks until the man collided with the cab of a semi-tractor trailer at 31st and Lawndale. Camden said the officers called off the pursuit and went to check on the two drivers. But as they approached, Camden said, the man reversed and then sped east on 31st Street.

The officers did not pick up the chase, but radioed in the make of the car and its direction, he said. Two tactical officers in the area heard the call and spotted the man speeding east on 31st Street. Camden said those officers were not in pursuit when the man struck some railroad tracks at 3332 W. 31st St.

The impact caused the car to go airborne, lose control and cross into the westbound lanes, where it struck Santillana's Toyota Camry.