The family of a mentally disturbed man killed by Salinas police officers in 2004 after he stabbed a police dog have agreed to settle their wrongful death lawsuit for $37,500, days before the case was scheduled to go to trial, according to court documents.

The family of Robert Anthony Carrillo sued the city and the Salinas Police Department for wrongful death after he was killed just before midnight May 16, 2004, by officers Adam Thomas Shaffer and Ian Christopher Parsons after they saw Carrillo stab Klief, officer Bill Gaston”s K-9 partner.

According to court records and newspaper reports, Carrillo was staying at a house his mother, Oralia Pacheco, owned on Glazier Drive after the death of his grandmother.

Carrillo, a Navy veteran, was a caregiver for his grandmother, and Pacheco said his mental health deteriorated after her death. Carrillo allowed the house to become run down. He let cars rot in the backyard, tore down sheetrock walls and replaced broken windows with boards. Salinas code enforcement officials told Pacheco the house was becoming a health hazard.

Carrillo refused to allow his mother to fix the house, so she evicted him and placed a restraining order on him, but he returned to the house. On the morning of his death, Salinas police officers were called by contractors who arrived at the house and found Carrillo holding a knife. Several officers responded and a standoff ensued. Pacheco arrived and begged the officers not to harm her son, and officers left without entering the residence.

Enters with dog

Officers Gaston, Shaffer and Parsons returned — without a warrant — about 11:45 p.m. Police reports say Gaston entered first with his dog Klief, shouting for Carrillo to come out and saying he would release his dog if Carrillo didn”t comply.

Carrillo was hiding behind a mirror and began stabbing Klief as the dog attacked him. When Carrillo didn”t respond to officers” warnings, Shaffer fired his gun while Parsons fired his Taser gun at the same time, according to the police report.

Carrillo was pronounced dead at Natividad Medical Center.

All of the police officers involved in the incident remain with the department.

In sworn affidavits, the officers said they had not been ordered to go to the home on Glacier Avenue, and that was one of the reasons cited by Monterey County Judge Robert O”Farrell in his refusal to dismiss the lawsuit.

“Here, in the middle of the night, the defendant officers decided to enter the residence of a person they knew to be seriously mentally disturbed,” O”Farrell wrote in his ruling issued June 24. “They did so despite an earlier directive from police superiors not to proceed in that matter.”

Chief defends actions

Salinas Police Chief Dan Ortega said Tuesday the officers were justified in entering the house because Carrillo was inside illegally.

“The family wanted him out of there. He kicked the door to get in. Officers knew that,” Ortega said. “The family settled for $37,000. As far as I”m concerned, this is a nuisance settlement.” Activists following the case were upset about the amount of the settlement, noting it was lower than the $90,000 the city paid to settle a claim of alleged police misconduct last year and a $315,000 settlement in 2004 to a man who claimed he was beaten by an officer for resisting arrest.

Carrillo “got no justice,” said Cresencio Padilla, a retired investigator from the public defender”s office who helped Carrillo”s family pursue a legal case against the city.

“This guy got killed unnecessarily, illegally, at night,” he said.

Klief died at a local veterinary hospital the night of the attack. His funeral about 10 days later was attended by more than 400 people — including city officials — and some 50 police dogs.

Other incidents

No disciplinary action followed Carrillo”s death, and Ortega defended the actions of his officers, saying the killing was justified.

The District Attorney”s Office “reviewed our investigation and it determined it was a justified homicide,” he said. Including the settlement, which needs to be formally approved by elected officials, the city has settled on five occasions for alleged police misconduct in the past seven years.

In 2004, Salinas officials agreed to pay $315,000 to a man who said he was beaten by police during a traffic stop.

In 2003, the city settled for $301,000 in a lawsuit filed after police shot and killed an unarmed man in front of Chin Brother”s Grocery & Liquor Store at North Main and Rossi streets.

In 2001, three Salinas police officers were found guilty in federal court for using excessive force that broke a man”s leg.