The city of Chicago will pay $6.5 million to the family of Gregory Jones, an 8-year-old Humboldt Park boy killed after he was hit by an unmarked squad car in an incident that officers originally attempted to cover up in 2004.

The Chicago Sun-Times reported Wednesday that the Jones' family will receive $5.9 million, according to the city's settlement with the family. Another $590,000 will go to Jones' niece, 11-year-old Datondra Mitchell, who was also injured in the crash but survived with a concussion and fractured skull among other injuries.

Advertisement

Mark Del Boccio and Robert Jackson, the officers involved in the crash, were reportedly taking an arrestee to Area 5 police headquarters at the time of the incident and originally insisted that they were heading quickly toward an aggravated assault in progress down the block when they hit the children, according to the Sun-Times. Jones estate's attorney Liz Mazur, however, claims that story did not match up with witnesses' accounts of the incident, which occurred near the corner of Grand and Kildare.

"There were dozens of eyewitnesses, none of whom saw the gunman police were allegedly chasing, including the arrestee in the back seat. He testified he didn’t see any gunman," Mazur told the Sun-Times. "It was just a made-up story after-the-fact to justify the way the officers were driving.”

The Chicago Reader published an extensive feature on the incident and the investigation that followed and argued that, either way the cops' story was interpreted, they were likely in the wrong:

If Officers Del Boccio and Jackson were indeed chasing a car with a gunman on May 19, 2004, they did so without notifying dispatchers and with a suspect in custody, each a violation of police department policy. If the officers weren't chasing the car, then it would appear they violated traffic laws without cause and made false reports. … By declaring the officers' actions a pursuit, the police department finally admitted the officers had done something wrong. But the admission meant the department had accepted the officers' story about a gunman--a story that isn't supported by either witnesses or the known facts.