An Austin man at the center of a wrongful-death lawsuit choked to death while in police custody, according to a medical examiner's autopsy report completed last week.

Christopher Hicks, 39, who died May 26 after allegedly resisting arrest for passing between moving CTA rail cars, died of asphyxia due to restraint in a homicide, Dr. Clare Cunliffe, deputy Cook County medical examiner, determined in a Sept. 16 report.

Advertisement

Cunliffe concluded Hicks suffered internal injuries, including hemorrhaging, to his neck, the report stated.

The report will become evidence in the federal lawsuit filed in June against the city and four Chicago police officers by Hicks' brother, Billie Ray Lewis. The suit contends that police officers beat Hicks while another officer placed him in a chokehold.

Advertisement

Lewis seeks more than $3 million in damages from the city, the suit stated.

"They chased him," said Dan Alexander, who is representing Lewis. "Two officers handcuffed him, and another had him in a chokehold."

Alexander said he has received recordings of calls to the city's 911 emergency center reporting that two white men were beating an African-American man. "Both of the cops were white," Alexander said, while Hicks was African-American.

According to the tapes, one caller told a 911 dispatcher that she saw "a man holding a man down with his arms behind his back."

A few minutes later, another caller told a dispatcher, "Two guys have a guy on the floor in a chokehold ... two male whites on a male black."

Law Department spokeswoman Jennifer Hoyle said she was not aware that 911 tapes had been released, but she said the tapes and the medical examiner's report were among the evidence that will be presented when the case "eventually goes to trial."

"There's going to be a broader sense of facts--and that's what a jury will be looking at," Hoyle said.

Police have said that mass-transit unit and Central District officers had to restrain Hicks after he became combative while resisting arrest May 26.

Advertisement

The officers had caught up with Hicks near the 400 block of South State Street about 10:20 p.m. after he walked through rail cars on a northbound Red Line train, violating a city law, and got off at the Harrison Street stop.

As they began a pat-down search of Hicks, the officers discovered he was unresponsive. Hicks, of the 5300 block of West Madison Street, was pronounced dead at 11:13 p.m. in Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

Police said emergency personnel retrieved a chewed-up straw from Hicks' mouth. Cunliffe's report stated the medical examiner's office received a chewed straw as evidence and submitted it to the police crime lab.

Police spokesman David Bayless on Tuesday said that a review of the death by the Office of Professional Standards was nearly complete. Because of the review, no internal action had been taken against the officers.

Born and raised in Chicago, Hicks is survived by his wife, Merlene Wynn-Hicks, who lives in California, and 11 siblings.

Hicks was a star football player at Gordon Tech High School on the Northwest Side, said Alfred Lewis, 57, another brother. He later entered the Army and served in the Gulf War.

Advertisement

Hicks left the Army following his stint in the Middle East after serving for nine years, Alexander said. Then he held jobs in Chicago and Texas.

"Chris was always a gentle person," Alfred Lewis said. "He just worked. Wherever he was, he would find himself a job and go to work."