NEW YORK

MANHATTAN: COUNCIL SPEAKER NAMES CHIEF OF STAFF City Council Speaker Gifford Miller announced yesterday that he had appointed Charles E. Meara as his chief of staff. Mr. Meara, 54, who has been the longtime assistant director of government and community affairs for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, will begin at the Council on June 14. He succeeds Forrest R. Taylor, who resigned in February. Mr. Miller also recently hired Barry D. Ford to the newly created position of chief of policy.Winnie Hu (NYT)

MINEOLA: FALLEN OBJECT MAY BE PART OF A DEAD BEAR A fallen object on a boat, first thought to be a clamshell and then a decomposed human hand, may actually be part of a dead bear, perhaps a claw awaiting treatment by a taxidermist. On Sunday, a startled deckhand at the Lawrence Village Marina in Nassau County reported the object to the police. It was then taken to the county medical examiner's office for analysis. Yesterday, Detective Lt. Dennis Farrell of the Nassau County Police Department said that a taxidermist working on a bear in his backyard, near the marina, reported that a bird might have flown away with a bear part.Stacy Albin (NYT)

MANHATTAN: MAN CHARGED IN PARK ATTACK A Bronx man was arrested yesterday in a sexual assault of a woman in Central Park last month, the police said. The man, identified by the police as Tito Rodriguez, 32, was already in custody when he was charged with attempted rape, attempted sodomy and sexual abuse in the May 12 attack against a woman who was jogging with her dog, the police said. The police were notified of a DNA match with Mr. Rodriguez, who has had several previous arrests - most recently on May 16, in connection with an attempted rape, the police said.

Sabrina Tavernise (NYT)

WYANDANCH: REPORT CLEARS POLICE IN PRISONER DEATH A 33-year-old man who died Saturday evening after being subdued by Suffolk County police officers did not die as a result of police actions, a preliminary post-mortem examination showed, officials said yesterday. The police took the man, Jamal Blount, into custody at the Wyandanch station of the Long Island Rail Road after he confronted passengers and appeared to be fighting with imaginary people, Detective Sgt. Vincent Posillico said. Mr. Blount ran onto a train when he saw the police approaching, and the officers handcuffed Mr. Blount "to protect themselves and him,'' Sergeant Posillico said. Mr. Blount told officers he had taken crack cocaine, the police said. As he was being taken to a hospital for psychiatric care, Mr. Blount had a seizure, stopped breathing and died. The police said they were still waiting for complete autopsy results.