Police on Thursday were calling justified the early morning fatal shooting of a 17-year-old youth, who they said fired several rounds from a Tech-9 semiautomatic weapon at a Chicago officer in the area around Humbolt Park.

A Shakespeare District officer shot and killed Kevin Morales shortly after police were called to 1235 N. Maplewood Av., about 1:15 a.m. to respond to reports of a gunfight between rival gangs. The Morales shooting occurred about five hours after 12-year-old Miguel DeLaRosa was killed as he rode his bike into gang crossfire outside a Humboldt Park corner store.

Advertisement

Some neighbors in the area claimed police overreacted, kicking Morales after he had been shot and yelling obscenities at him.

But the Cook County Medical Examiner's office said Thursday that none of the shots were fired from close range, and the only other marks on Morales' body were small scratches on his hand and cheeks.

Advertisement

Police said both killings were the result of gang warfare in the Humboldt Park area. But aside from Morales' alleged ties to a gang suspected in DeLaRosa's slaying on Tuesday evening at the corner of Cortland Street and California Avenue, police said there was no reason to suspect the two shootings were related. Police were questioning people in DeLaRosa's killing Thursday, but no arrests had been made.

Police spokesman Pat Camden said that after officers from the Shakespeare District responded to calls that two rival gangs were firing at each other, officers spotted Morales, allegedly armed, standing in an alley at 1329 N. Rockwell St. Twice during an ensuing foot chase, Morales allegedly turned towards at least one officer and fired.

Police eventually found him crouching on the opposite side of a wrought-iron fence at 2611 W. Evergreen Ave, and aiming his weapon at an officer. Camden said the officer, a 4-year member of the force, fired his 9 mm pistol several times after Morales refused several orders to drop his weapon.

Morales was pronounced dead at Mount Sinai Hospital at 2:17 a.m.