GREENSBORO — Two veteran Greensboro police officers were cleared of any criminal wrongdoing Thursday in the fatal shooting of a man during a June 2004 standoff.

Cpl. Thomas Kroh and Sgt. Jeffrey DeYoung reasonably believed they had to shoot 40-year-old Allen Scott Grimes to prevent him from shooting Kroh, Guilford District Attorney Stuart Albright said Thursday.

Albright made the decision after reviewing a nearly 700-page report on the shooting compiled by Greensboro police.

The news prompted Grimes’ mother to question police tactics, such as why it was necessary for them to shoot her son eight times.

“I don’t understand why they can take a bull elephant down with a dart gun, but 100 men can’t stop somebody — one person — with a gun without killing them and shooting them eight times,” Nancy Grimes said .

Albright estimated that there were only a few dozen officers on the scene during the standoff, not 100.

Grimes was shot eight times, he said, because he didn’t put his gun down until the last shot was fired. Police also were using fully automatic weapons.

Kroh fired at Grimes with an MP5, which shoots a burst of

9 mm rounds, he said.

“You pull the trigger just for a split second, and you are going to rattle off five, six, seven rounds,” he said.

DeYoung, a sniper watching the standoff from a driveway across the street, also shot Grimes with a .308-caliber Remington sniper rifle.

Albright gave this version of the events leading to the shooting:

Grimes, who recently had left a substance abuse treatment center, went to his parents’ home at 1607 Ontario St. on June 23 and was upset about the state denying him a driver’s license. Grimes caused a disturbance that led his parents to call police when he wouldn’t leave. After an officer arrived, Grimes got a .380-caliber semi-automatic pistol from inside the house and cocked the gun on the porch where the officer was standing. The officer fled for cover and called for backup. Over the course of the next several hours, Grimes refused to put down his gun on the porch, instead firing it twice, once into the roof. It was unclear where he aimed the second shot.

After the second shot, officers moved in to stop him — using non-lethal flashbang grenades and non-lethal sponge rounds. Though police knocked him to his knees with a sponge round, Grimes got back on his feet and pointed his gun at Kroh, who was now about 10 feet away.

Both Kroh and DeYoung then shot Grimes.

“The only reason Corporal Kroh is alive today is because he shot Mr. Grimes before Mr. Grimes shot him,” Albright said.

Toxicology reports showed Grimes had a 0.07 blood-alcohol content and cocaine in his system, Albright said.

Kroh and DeYoung have been on paid administrative leave since the shooting, said Sgt. Levester Thomas, who supervises the department’s internal affairs office.

The department also is conducting an administrative investigation into the officers’ actions to determine if they violated any policies or procedures, he said.

Police Chief David Wray did not return a reporter’s call for comment on the shooting report.

Contact Eric Collins

at 373-7077 or ecollins

@news-record.comNEWS & RECORD

EXCLUSIVE