Nearly eight months after a Hamilton policeman shot a suspect in the line of duty, a coroner's inquest Thursday concluded the officer was justified in the use of deadly force, but Daniel Paul Easterly actually died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

"Easterly came to his death by shooting himself in the head after he had been justifiably shot by Hamilton police detective Joseph Andreoli who shot the decedent to protect Hamilton police Sgt. Ryan Oster and himself after the decedent pointed a loaded pistol at them," according to the coroner's verdict.

Andreoli and Ryan went to the home on Running Creek Lane in Hamilton, at the end of June last year to arrest Easterly on a warrant from Washington.

He had been charged with three counts of felony molestation and one charge of exploitation of a minor and had been ordered to stay away from the victims.

Easterly was living with the victims at the time of his death.

The two officers arrived to serve an arrest warrant, accompanied by two social workers to take the children into protective custody - not an abnormal part of a police officers duties.

Officers' memories

At the coroner's inquest Thursday the officers testified in detail of the horrific events of that day.

They walked to the door of the Easterly residence, the window next to the door was open. Andreoli knocked on the door while Oster watched through the window.

After the second knock, a young female came to door. Oster asked to see her stepfather, Easterly. She let the officers in and walked down a hallway. The officers followed her and saw her open a door to a room and speak to someone inside. They were unable to hear what was being said.

Oster was closest and moved down the hallway. The man told the girl he would be out in a minute. Oster continued down the hallway to the room.

Andreoli saw Oster struggling with someone.

Oster had seen that the suspect had a gun and placed himself between the girl and Easterly.

"I pushed the girl into the bedroom," Oster testified.

"I knew something was wrong, I saw (Oster) reach for his gun as he was yelling, 'gun! gun,;" Andreoli told the jury.

"Oster continued to struggle with someone. As he stepped back into the hallway he lost his balance and slid down the wall," Andreoli continued.

That was when Andreoli first saw Easterly clearly.

The 6-foot, 4-inch, 270 pound Easterly moved into the hallway as Oster scurried on his back up the hallway.

Easterly had a gun in his hand pointed at Oster.

Andreoli commanded Easterly to drop the weapon.

"We locked eyes, I knew he had seen me. He raised the gun toward me, I figured I would be shot," Andreoli, said, voice cracking with emotion. "I fired my first shot."

The detective recalls vaguely yelling at Easterly to drop gun, but the only response he got was the suspect moving back into the bedroom, out of his line of sight.

Oster wasn't idle during the exchange. Andreoli remembered him on his back scurrying up the hallway as Easterly reemerged from the room.

"I was fully expecting him to be firing a round at me," Andreoli said.

County Attorney George Corn interrupted the testimony to ask as question: "You thought he was going to shoot you?"

"Definitely!" Andreoli responded.

By this time Oster was out of the hallway and around the corner.

Easterly had started down the hallway, with "heavy methodical steps," and still holding on to the gun, according to the detective.

Andreoli again told him to drop the gun.

Easterly replied with words to the effect, "You're not taking me. I'm not going," Andreoli told the jury.

As Easterly moved down the hallway he raised the weapon again, taking aim at Andreoli who fired again.

Easterly kept coming with the gun threatening the officer.

"I was pleading in my mind for him to stop," Andreoli said.

Andreoli fired four shots, all of which hit Easterly, according to the Missoula County Captain of Detectives Greg Heintz and the State Medical Examiner Dr. Gary Dale.

Easterly made his way to the end of the hallway, raised the gun to his head and the weapon discharged, according to Andreoli.

Easterly's body crumbled to the floor.

"I lost my composure," Andreoli said, "I put my hands on top of my head and wondered just what had happened."

Oster reacted first and went down the hallway into a different room where the girls were. He scooped them up, one in each arm.

"He walked back up the hallway with a girl on each side covering their eyes with his hand," Andreoli said.

Corn went back to the shooting.

"How many times did you believe you would be shot?" he asked.

Andreoli stumbled over his words, "Initially I thought my sergeant was going to get shot… I couldn't believe it was happening. It happened so fast I'm surprised I can remember anything."

He describe watching Oster scurry up the hallway on his back and around the corner, heading for the front door.

"I wanted to be right behind him," Andreoli said.

Corn pursued that line of thought.

"What made you stop?" he said.

Andreoli paused, his voice, breaking as he spoke.

"I realized it was my job to stay. The girls were still in the house…" he stopped talking as he remembered.

"And you saw the man with the gun," Corn said.

The officer nodded and said something that could not be heard in spite the hushed quiet of the courtroom.

Corn asked him to repeat himself.

Andreoli's response was still barely a whisper, "Yes," he said.

By this time, Oster called dispatch on his radio, reporting the gunfire.

From the time the officers parked their car until he radioed dispatch telling them the suspect had been shot, and requesting back up, only four minutes had passed.

Back up officers and Hamilton Police Chief Allan Auch showed up quickly.

Auch recognized they would need outside help and called Missoula County to investigate.

Expert testimony

Capt. Heintz described the scene and the steps taken during his investigation.

His team took measurements, pictures and statements, and compared black scuff marks on the wall to the paint transfer on Oster's utility belt as he slid down the wall.

They measured blood spatter and other pieces of physical evidence found next to where Easterly had been standing.

Heintz described it all to the jury as the county attorney's office supplied pictures Heintz and his team had taken of the scene that day.

Dr. Day took the stand next.

He outlined the four shots Andreoli had fired and told the jury all of the slugs had been found in the chest area of Easterly.

Day called it very unusual circumstances because three of Andreoli's shots were serious enough to have killed Easterly quickly.

In the end though, according to Day, the shot that had killed Easterly had been the self-inflicted head wound.

After the inquest

"The purpose of the inquest is to clear the air," Corn said, "The community has spoken, it is totally clear now. Hamilton is very fortunate to have officers of that caliber working for them."

Auch said he was proud of his officers, but was not overly concerned about the inquest.

"This went exactly the way I felt it would. I had no doubts from the beginning," he said, "I never doubted from a minute their actions were appropriate both morally and legally."

What is a coroner's inquest?

Powell County Coroner John Pohl conducted the inquest which is not a trial. It is, however, conducted with a jury, witnesses are called and testimony is given to the jurors and the coroner.

After the county attorney asks his questions, the coroner and the jurors have an opportunity question witnesses.

Eight jurors are charged with answering four questions that are outlined in Montana law statutes: who the deceased was; when and where he or she came to meet his death; if he came to death by criminal means; and if he was killed or his death occurred by the act of another by criminal means.