BURLINGTON — A veteran police sergeant killed a Greensboro man Monday night during a traffic stop when the man pointed a handgun at the officer, police said.

David Keith Baker, 49, of 1507 Elmer St. Apt. A, was pronounced dead by doctors at Alamance Regional Medical Center less than an hour after the shooting, police said.

Baker’s death is the second in two weeks resulting from a Piedmont Triad police agency shooting. A third police shooting in that time injured a bank robbery suspect.

According to Burlington police, Sgt. Todd Saunders saw Baker driving his BMW about 8:35 p.m. on the wrong side of the road on Rauhut Street near Dudley Street.

Saunders turned around to stop the vehicle, police said. Baker drove to an open lot on the corner and stopped.

Baker got out of the vehicle and became hostile, police said.

He pulled a .380-caliber automatic handgun from his pants and aimed at Saunders.

Saunders drew his own weapon and fired at Baker, police said.

Police are awaiting autopsy results to determine whether drugs or alcohol were in Baker’s system, police said. The autopsy report may take a few weeks to complete.

“It was a routine traffic stop,” said Capt. Jackie Sheffield.

“That’s the way it started.”

A female passenger in Baker’s car was unhurt, police said.

Donna Louise Helzer, 45, of the same address, was not charged with a crime.

The State Bureau of Investigation is handling the investigation.

Sheffield said Baker had served time in federal prison for bank robbery. Baker was hearing-impaired. Saunders is on administrative leave during the investigation.

Monday’s shooting marked the second time since 1998 that Saunders was involved in a police-related shooting.

In March of that year, he and another officer were involved in the fatal shooting of a bank robbery suspect in the then-Holly Hill Mall, Sheffield said.

The State Bureau of Investigation found Saunders and his colleague were justified in that shooting, Sheffield said.

Saunders has worked for Burlington police since 1994, Sheffield said.

Greensboro police killed a man June 23 after a three-hour standoff on the front porch of the man’s parents.

That same day, Winston-Salem police wounded a robbery suspect when they went to arrest the man at a motel.

Contact Eric J.S. Townsend

at 373-7008 or etownsend@