A Chicago police officer shot and killed a motorist after the man tried to drive away from a gas station with the officer hanging off the vehicle, police said Wednesday.

A preliminary discussion of the incident in the 5300 block of West Chicago Avenue Tuesday night found the officer acted within department guidelines, said police spokesman Patrick Camden. But the department's Office of Professional Standards has launched a more in-depth investigation into the shooting, which happened across the street from Austin District police headquarters, officials said.

Advertisement

Ronald Mullins, 30, of the 4400 block of West Iowa Street was shot in the arm and back by the officer about 11 p.m. Tuesday, Camden said.

The officer was at district headquarters and left the building to get something from his car, police said. He heard shouts and tires squealing at the Power Test Fuel station across the street and drew his gun, Camden said.

Advertisement

The driver of a tow truck working for a city contractor had pulled his truck into the gas station to impound a car when Mullins drove into the lot and began to drive the car onto the tow truck's bed, Camden said.

He and the tow truck driver got into a dispute, Camden said. When the police officer arrived, Mullins refused to stop, so the officer reached into the car to grab Mullins, who leaned to the right. The officer hung on and was dragged farther into the car through the driver's side window, Camden said.

At that point, Mullins accelerated onto westbound Chicago Avenue with the officer hanging on for about 170 feet, Camden said. The officer, after repeatedly demanding that Mullins stop, reached in through the back window holding his gun.

According to Camden, the officer feared that "if he lets go he's either going to be seriously injured or killed." The officer fired, hitting Mullins in the upper left arm and upper back.

The car veered out of control into a lamppost and stopped.

Police originally said the tow truck driver said Mullins was stealing the car. Camden said further investigation showed the car was not stolen even though it was not registered to Mullins. He did not have the name of the car's owner.

The officer was treated for cuts and scrapes on a leg and forearm at West Suburban Hospital Medical Center in Oak Park.