Editor’s note: In the last month, the Saint Louis University

community has forgone the loss of two of its members, a recent

graduate and a tenured coach. We have provided basic information

about them here but will not print more complete profiles until we

begin regular publication in August.

Recent Graduate, 24, Killed In Car Accident

Gary “Chip” Alter, 24, a Saint Louis University graduate, was

killed on Friday, July 17 when four teenagers and a 12-year-old in

a stolen Dodge Durango plowed into his automobile as he was making

a left turn onto I-44 from Kingshighway.

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported that two 16-year-olds, two

13-year-olds and a 12-year-old, all boys, were racing at 90 miles

per hour northbound in Kingshighway’s southbound lanes in the

stolen vehicle when they broadsided Alter.

Story continues below advertisement

Alter, a 2002 graduate, majored in marketing and management

information systems. He was killed two and a half weeks after

returning to St. Louis from Madrid, where he taught English to

adults for six months.

“He accomplished a lot in his 24 short years,” Alter’s mother,

Joan, told the Post-Dispatch. “He always made me proud.

The 16-year-old driver was charged in juvenile court with

first-degree tampering with an automobile. St. Louis City police

Chief Joe Mokwa told the Post-Dispatch that he wanted to see the

driver charged as an adult.

Rugby Coach Since ’89 Dies of Heart Attack

On Wednesday, July 14 William M. Brandt, who has coached Saint

Louis University’s rugby team since 1989, died at the age of

59.

According to the University, the cause of death was a heart

attack.

During his 16 years with the organization, Brandt led his

“boys,” as he was fond of calling them, to four Western Division

championships and nine National Tournament appearances.

Brandt, who was known simply as “Coach” to many at SLU, is

remembered for the fatherly way in which he taught and cared for

his players on and off the field.

“What Coach really taught us on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday

afternoons in rain, sun, sleet or snow was how to play and live the

game of life,” Lou Helmsing said during his eulogy at a memorial

service for Brandt on July 19.

Helmsing, who served as the president of the rugby club from

1991-’93 and as captain of the team from 1992-’94 noted, “When you

needed a ride home, Coach would drive you….When you personally

could not make a road trip because you could not afford the plane

ticket, Coach would pay your way.”

He spoke of times when Brandt helped players through everything

from medical emergencies to quiet evenings with friends. “Coach

would buy first round, second round and third round.”

He also involved the rugby team in regular service projects.

Brandt’s desire to help others manifested in 1990 as Habcare

Inc., an organization that provides assisted-living services for

the devopmentally disabled. At the time of his death, Brandt was

Habcare’s president.

Vice President of Student Development Phil Lyons, who first met

Brandt while working in student life said even though he knew the

coach in a limited way, he could tell dozens of stories about how

much he loved his players.

“I worked with Bill through ups and downs,” Lyons said. “In

casual conversation he knew what they all were doing if they were

five, ten, fifteen years graduated.

“He would refer to alumni, to students in their twenties and

thirties, as ‘my boys.’ And these boys he referred to are doctors

and lawyers and investment bankers.”

Brandt is survived by his wife Paula Roush Brandt and daughter

Molly of St. Louis.