BLOOMINGTON, Ill. — A 23-year-old police officer was charged Thursday with murder in the shooting death of an unarmed mentally disabled man who drove away from a gas station two weeks ago without paying for $15 in fuel.

Jeffrey A. Gabor, of the nearby Hudson Police Department, is accused of shooting Shannon Smith, 27, several times in the back as he sat in his Cadillac, hemmed in by police patrol cars on Interstate Highway 55, not far from Towanda.

Advertisement

Local prosecutors contend Gabor had no lawful justification for shooting Smith. Gabor may have believed the circumstances justified the use of deadly force, "but his belief was unreasonable," McLean County State's Atty. Charles Reynard alleged in formal charges of first-degree murder released late Thursday.

A witness to the shooting said that just before he was shot, Smith had been trying to move one of the patrol cars out of the way by ramming it. But the witness, a construction worker working a few yards away, said Smith was not armed and none of the police officers on the scene seemed to be in danger of being hit.

Advertisement

Smith did not have a history of violent behavior, according to friends and family.

Efforts to reach Gabor or an attorney for him for comment were unsuccessful. He turned himself in to McLean County sheriff's police and was being held on a $500,000 bond Thursday evening. The investigation was conducted by the Illinois State Police.

Gabor's arrest sheds some light on the final moments of Smith, a mildly disabled man whose death has enraged residents of his central Illinois home in recent days.

Three police departments were at the scene of the shooting, and until Thursday it wasn't known which one employed the officer who fired the fatal shots. Reynard and officials of the Hudson, Lexington and Chenoa Police Departments still refuse to discuss details of the case publicly.

"My ethics leave me unable to comment about any evidentiary matters," Reynard said, citing new Illinois Supreme Court rules that he believes restrict what he and police may say about pending investigations.

According to a police source, Smith drove away from a gas station in Chenoa on the afternoon of July 24 without paying for $15 worth of gasoline. A report went out over the police radio, and officers from some of the neighboring towns engaged in a chase that ended up on a bridge on the interstate.

The police parked their cars in front and behind Smith's 10-year-old Cadillac, blocking him in between their cars and a concrete barrier.

The officers approached Smith's car with their guns drawn, said Jerry Aldridge, a construction worker who was just a few yards away.

Advertisement

Smith didn't move when the officers ordered him to get out of the car, Aldridge said. One of the officers broke out a side window of the car, and Smith then tried to ram the vehicle in front of him in an apparent effort to get away, he said.

The officers began firing, most of them at the tires of Smith's car, but one officer fired through the back window directly at Smith.

"It sounded like a bundle of firecrackers, is what it sounded like," Aldridge said. He said he believes there were more than 20 shots fired.

A video camera mounted on one of the police cars captured the incident on tape, according to one official who asked not to be named.

Members of Smith's family hope the video will help them understand what happened to him, though they don't expect the knowledge to be a comfort.

"I went to the construction site," said Terry Smith, the victim's father. "I wanted to know. Did my son scream? Or yell out? ... You can't imagine what I'm going through. My whole life will never be the same again."

Advertisement

Smith said his son was able to function, having graduated high school and then going on to live by himself with the 22 dogs he kept as pets. But he wasn't able to hold down a job.

Others who knew Smith said it was clear to anyone who had any interaction with him that Smith had a mental disability. He frequently waved his hands around randomly and had trouble holding a normal conversation.

Matt Fraker, the veterinarian who helped Smith care for his animals, said: "You would know if you met him that he was mentally disabled."

That is why Smith's family believes he ran away from the police when they first began to pursue him, and why he didn't step out of the car when asked to do so.

"He was frightened," said Smith's father. "I'm sure he didn't know what to do."