WATERLOO - Regina Foy was a loving mother of four who wanted to do so much but had little time to do it, relatives said.

And that time came to an end at 2 a.m. Wednesday when a Waterloo man lost control of his motorcycle.

Investigators said Foy, 28, was on the back of Aundrey Roberts' 1992 Suzuki when it crashed at a high speed in the area of Lane and Fowler streets as Roberts apparently tried to flee from police.

Foy died at the scene, and Roberts was taken to Allen Hospital for his injuries. Hospital officials said Roberts asked his condition not be released.

Family members said Foy moved to Waterloo about a year ago from Forrest City, Ark., in search of a city with more opportunities. They were in shock when they learned about her death.

"I was in disbelief," said her cousin, Marcus Foy, 21, who made the migration to Waterloo with Regina Foy, one of her children and her younger brother, Paris, and shared a Baltimore Street duplex with them.

Marcus Foy said he knew something was wrong the morning of the crash.

He normally gets up at 6 a.m. for his job at Tyson Fresh Meats, but on Wednesday he awoke at 4 a.m. for some unknown reason and couldn't get back to sleep.

His phone had been turned off, and when he flipped it on there were 32 messages.

The most recent message was from Regina Foy's brother. He told him about the accident.

As the following hours unfolded, Marcus Foy thought he was dreaming and kept telling people to wake him up.

"I'm taking it pretty hard right now," Marcus Foy said. "I'm trying to be strong."

The cousin went to the morgue. He said her entire body was shrouded with the exception her right arm, which bears a tattoo of hands folded in prayer and the names of her two sons and two daughters.

Marcus Foy said he didn't know Roberts but assumes he's an acquaintance of Regina Foy. He didn't know what she was doing the night and early morning hours before her death.

He did say Regina Foy had a long-standing fascination with motorcycles.

"Everybody who ran into her loved her," the cousin said.

He said she was like a counselor to her friends and like a big sister to him.

"She was always right there by my side," he said.

Her body will be taken to Arkansas for burial.

The Iowa State Patrol continues to investigate the accident. No charges have been filed as of this morning.

Waterloo police said an officer spotted Roberts driving at a high rate of speed and began following the motorcycle from several blocks away without activating his flashing lights.

The motorcycle pulled a U-turn at the western foot of the 11th Street bridge and met the squad car, which was going the other direction.

The officer turned around and turned on his red-and-blue lights.

Seconds later the officer, who was still several blocks away, saw the accident happen, according to police.

State troopers said it appeared Roberts lost control of the motorcycle.