RANDOLPH COUNTY - A Minnesota man who was being sought by police at the time a Baldwin woman was killed earlier this month in a related traffic accident has been found unfit to stand trial.

Paul David Sheppard, 24, of Canterbury Drive, Woodbury, Minn., appeared before Judge Jerry Flynn Aug. 19 in Randolph County Court on felony charges of criminal damage to government supported property and aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude police.

Authorities allege Sheppard caused damage at the Sparta fairground by driving a vehicle recklessly on the grounds and that he then attempted to flee or elude police driving at speeds exceeding 21 mph over the speed limit.

Randolph County State's Attorney Darrell Williamson and Sheppard's Belleville attorney, John J. O'Gara Jr., each stipulated to the mental fitness report submitted by Dr. Daniel J. Cunio. Flynn then ruled Sheppard unfit for trial and ordered that he be remanded indefinitely to the Illinois Department of Human Services for in-patient treatment in a secure setting. Randolph County officials said Friday Sheppard currently remains in the Randolph County Jail awaiting an opening and transportation to the Alton Mental Health Center.

Sparta and Randolph County law enforcement and eventually Perry County deputies joined in the pursuit of Sheppard. Authorities said when Sparta's newly hired police officer Misty Starr McPherson was en route to assist other officers she was involved in a wreck at the intersection of Illinois 154 and Michael Road near Eden. A sport-utility vehicle driven by McPherson and a passenger car Janet R. Cole, 58, collided. Cole was pronounced dead at the scene. McPherson was taken to Sparta Community Hospital for treatment of her injuries.

Sparta officials said their police department has a "no fast pursuit" policy in place and that McPherson was not involved in a pursuit. It's commonplace for law enforcement from nearby municipalities to assist one another in such situations.

Sheppard faces no charges in connection with the fatal accident. He was eventually apprehended about 45 minutes after the accident just inside Perry County after his truck struck a ditch at the intersection of Illinois 154 and Baby's-Breath Road.

Sheppard was wearing a seat belt and initially refused to get out of his locked vehicle. He had a short altercation with a Sparta Police officer and Perry County Sheriff Keith Kellerman before being arrested. He was not armed and his truck suffered minor damage.

No charges have been filed in connection with Cole's death and authorities said the investigation is continuing.

Shortly after the accident Sparta Mayor Randy Bertetto said McPherson was to begin police basic training soon and came highly recommended to the city. Illinois State Police are investigating the accident. Sparta Police Chief Tom Ashley and Sparta Mayor Randy Bertetto could not be reached for information about McPherson's status Friday.