Perth Amboy will pay $1.35 million to the estate of city resident Curtis Good, who was shot and killed in his apartment by a police officer in 2004, reportedly while Good was delirious from cocaine and was charging the officer.

Last December, more than four years after the shooting, the city reached an agreement to pay Good's girlfriend, Nicole Larmonie, her now 4-year-old daughter, and Good's former girlfriend, Kelly Patterson, and the two children he had with her.The settlement ends a federal lawsuit the women filed claiming negligence by the city and the police, despite a grand jury investigation that concluded the officer, Carmen Fazzolari, acted properly during the confrontation.

Fazzolari fired eight shots, hitting Good six times.

Larmonie will receive $256,438, and Patterson will receive $238,770, under the settlement that became final on Dec. 16.

Another $275,000 will be placed in a trust for Larmonie's and Good's daughter, Lilly Larmonie, who was born a month after Good was killed.

Trust funds of $270,000 each will also be established for Good's two children with Patterson, Aaliyah Good, now 9, and Quincy Good, 16.

Perth Amboy's insurance carrier made the decision to settle the lawsuit, despite the grand jury finding, said Fredrick Rubenstein, a Woodbridge lawyer representing the city. The grand jury, Rubenstein said, was concerned with criminal law and the lawsuit was a civil case.

"There is difference between a criminal prosecution and a civil case, which has a lighter standard of proof," Rubenstein said.

Lucas Phillips, who represented Larmonie, declined to comment on the case. Patterson's attorney, John Schwartz, did not return calls seeking a comment. Attempts to reach Good's relatives and Larmonie and Patterson were unsuccessful.

In 2004, Good was living in a King Street apartment with Larmonie and her 19-year-old son.

On Aug. 20, at about 1:30 a.m., Larmonie's son called 911 to report Good was ranting and tearing holes in the walls of the apartment.

Larmonie was not home at the time, and when Fazzolari arrived four minutes later, found the son and his friend outside the apartment, and the officer then entered the unit by himself. Fazzolari, who has been on the force 23 years, later testified before a Middlesex County grand jury that Good was attacking the walls with his bare hands.

The officer said he ordered Good to drop to the floor, but the man began cursing and screaming, "I'm gonna kill you," and kept advancing toward the officer, even after Fazzolari began firing his .45-caliber pistol, according to a report later released by the Middlesex County Prosecutor's Office.

Officer David Sanchez arrived at the apartment two minutes after Fazzolari, and was outside with Larmonie's son and friend when he heard the shots fired, and then went inside.

After firing the shots, Fazzolari called the dispatcher and paramedics rushed Good to Raritan Bay Medical Center in Perth Amboy, where he died a short time later.

In the two months after the shooting, Good's relatives and friends spearheaded two peaceful protest marches in the city. They rejected reports that Good had been using drugs.

However, in November 2004, three months after the shooting, a Middlesex County grand jury cleared Fazzolari and found he had acted properly.

Tests showed Good had "high levels of cocaine in his blood and urine," according to a postmortem report by Deputy Middlesex County Medical Examiner Andrew Falzon, who said Good's "binge use" of cocaine created a "condition known as cocaine-induced excited delirium."

Perth Amboy police, who conducted an internal investigation of the shooting, called Good's death a "tragedy," but found Fazzolari had followed department regulations.