What started as a domestic dispute on the South Side early Sunday turned deadly when a Cook County corrections officer killed his wife and critically wounded his 19-year-old stepdaughter before killing himself, police said.

Police responding to a domestic dispute call in the 8200 block of South Ellis Avenue found Jacque A. Jenkins, 39, and Crystal Benford, 36, dead at about 3:21 a.m., police spokeswoman JoAnn Taylor said.

Advertisement

Benford's daughter from a previous marriage, Teleza, was listed in critical condition in Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, hospital officials said.

Teleza, a student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, suffered gunshot wounds to her legs, buttocks and stomach, said cousin Troy Harper.

Advertisement

According to police, Jenkins and Benford were quarreling when Jenkins shot his wife several times in the chest.

Police said that when Teleza Benford ran out of her bedroom after hearing the gunshots, Jenkins chased her around the apartment, shooting her several times.

Teleza Benford called 911 before collapsing.

Police discovered Benford in one bedroom, Teleza in another bedroom and Jenkins in a hallway.

Autopsies performed Sunday determined that Benford died of multiple gunshot wounds in a homicide, said a spokesman with the Cook County medical examiner's office.

Jenkins died of a gunshot wound in the mouth in a suicide, the spokesman said.

Benford also had a 14-year-old daughter who was with relatives at the time of the shooting, said the building's landlord, who asked that her name not be published.

The murder-suicide shocked family members and neighbors. Late Sunday morning, neighbors stopped by the home of Jenkins' mother, Alice, in the 9500 block of South Princeton Avenue to offer condolences.

Advertisement

"I can't believe this. I've known him 39 years," said Rena May Williams, who lives next door to Alice Jenkins.

Harper said the couple had been married less than a year and moved into the second-floor apartment of a three-story brick building in June.

"There were problems, but it turns out nobody knew about them," said Joe Young, 52, a teacher from Oak Park who is married to a cousin of Benford's.

Benford worked as a cashier at the Museum of Science and Industry museum spokeswoman Lisa Miner said.

Jenkins was assigned to the county's boot camp for the sheriff's department, said spokeswoman Penny Mateck. Employment records show he was hired Feb. 14, 1995.

"He was mild ... a nice guy," said Rev. Leroy Jackson of Gary, Ind., a family spokesman.