A Libertyville teacher and children's pastor who once transformed her home into a castle to instruct her children about medieval history was killed Downstate when a police car slammed into her vehicle.

Jill Dayton, 44, was a passenger in a mini-van driven by her oldest daughter, Amanda, 16, who turned on a green light into the path of the sheriff's deputy's car Friday evening near the campus of Western Illinois University in Macomb, authorities said Wednesday.

Advertisement

The deputy was pursuing a motorist suspected of drunken driving, police said.

Amanda Dayton was treated and released, and a friend, also a passenger in the mini-van, and the deputy remain hospitalized, officials said.

Advertisement

As family members prepared for Dayton's funeral, friends reeled from the loss of a kind and funny woman who seemed to be everywhere at once, volunteering, sending thoughtful notes and developing a curriculum as the children's pastor at their church.

"She had a vitality, a love of people and of her God that just radiated from her," said Brian Dayton, 44, her husband of 20 years. "A friend of mine on Sunday came by and told me, `When I looked at Jill, I saw Christ.' And for us there is no better compliment that someone could pay anyone to say that."

Jill Dayton is also survived by two other daughters, Emily, 11, and Danielle, 7.

The accident occurred just days after Dayton embarked on a new job teaching gifted pupils at Kipling Elementary School in Deerfield.

"Her personality was charming, wonderfully upbeat," said Kipling Principal Judi Lindgren, who said counselors are offering to help children struggling with the loss of a teacher they knew for a few days. "She had a playful sense of humor."

Dayton, her daughter and a friend were on their way to visit another friend at Western Illinois when a police car driven by Sheriff's Deputy Tom Pledge crashed into their vehicle about 11:30 p.m. at University Drive and U.S. Highway 67, said McDonough County Sheriff Mike Johnson.

Pledge was chasing a drunken-driving suspect who had his lights off, Johnson said. The driver, identified as Rigo Berto Herrera, 21, of Harvard, was arrested near the scene of the collision shortly after it happened, authorities said.

Herrera was charged with aggravated driving under the influence and aggravated fleeing and eluding among other charges, officials said.

Advertisement

Pledge followed department procedure on car chases and has been exonerated of any wrongdoing, Johnson said. The deputy has severe leg injuries requiring surgery and is receiving counseling, he said.

"He's taking it pretty hard," Johnson said.

Dayton worked part time as the children's pastor at the non-denominational Northwest Christian Community Church in Mundelein and sat on the board of Love Inc., a Gurnee-based charity where she also volunteered.

"She would always have a really deep understanding of where she stood with God," said John Coleman, a former pastor. "It allowed her to roll with the tide of things. ... The way my wife puts it is, `Her bad mood is like my best mood.'"

Dayton spent much of her life teaching.

She wove instruction into family vacations and even home-schooled her eldest child from 3rd to 5th grade.

Advertisement

"When I went over to her house, the living room wasn't like our living room," said Mary Lawrence, Love Inc.'s resource center coordinator and a friend. "It was like a classroom with neat things. They would have the constellations hanging from the ceiling."

Visitation will be held from 3 to 8 p.m. Thursday in Burnett-Dane Funeral Home, 120 W. Park Ave., Libertyville. Services will be held at 11 a.m. Friday in First Presbyterian Church, Maple Drive and Douglas Avenue, Libertyville.