An Alaska State Trooper sergeant shot and killed a troubled 54-year-oldDelta Junction man who resisted arrest, troopers said Wednesday.Two troopers initially tried to subdue James "Jim" Dorff with pepper spray,a Taser weapon and baton before the officer shot him three times, the agencysaid.The trooper who shot Dorff was identified as Sgt. Brian Wassman, supervisorof the Delta post and a member of the force since 1993. Wassman was placedon paid three-day leave, a mandatory move when officers use deadly force,according to the troopers.The incident happened Tuesday afternoon near Delta Junction.Family members said Dorff and the troopers were familiar with each other. Infact, it seemed Wednesday that everybody in Delta Junction, a town of about1,000 people located almost 100 miles southeast of Fairbanks, knew Dorff andcertainly knew his story.Two years ago, family and friends said, Dorff suffered a serious braininjury that drastically altered his behavior. He became more irascible,violent and paranoid, they said.According to the troopers, Wassman and trooper Nasruk Nay responded to anunidentified person's complaint north of Delta Junction near Mile 275 of theRichardson Highway. Dorff was living in his son's van near woods there,according to his two daughters.About 3 p.m. the troopers tried to serve arrest warrants on Dorff, who hadfailed to appear in court on charges stemming from violations of adomestic-violence protective order, said Alaska Bureau of Investigationscommander Capt. Matt Leveque.Dorff was a big man, about 6 feet 2 inches and weighed more than 200 pounds,his family said. He refused to let himself be arrested when officers showedup, according to the troopers.Dorff was not armed with a gun or knife, but the confrontation escalated tothe use of pepper spray, batons and Taser, a weapon that delivers a powerfulshock designed to incapacitate a suspect. Ultimately, Dorff picked up apiece of metal, and Wassman then drew a .40-caliber handgun and fired threetimes, Leveque said. Neither trooper was injured in the incident.Other details were being withheld by troopers, pending an ongoinginvestigation, they said.Dorff's daughter Melissa Smith-Dorff said she doesn't understand how herfather ended up dead. While sometimes violent, Dorff often became paranoidbut never resisted arrest, she said.Another daughter, Teresa Glass, said Dorff had been involved in aconfrontation with troopers before."They took my dad away, but I'm not judging them," she said.Dorff was originally from San Diego and served in the U.S. Army. He hadlived in Delta Junction for more than 20 years, working primarily as an automechanic and then a truck driver.Two years ago, he fell out of his moving truck on the Denali Highway andsuffered a head injury that damaged his brain's frontal lobe, saidSmith-Dorff and Glass.Before the accident, Dorff was a caring family man and a well-regardedmechanic, family and friends said."He was a genius mechanic. The guy could do anything with a car," said DavidDiGloria, manager of Rika's Roadhouse and Landing on the Richardson Highwaynorth of town. He sometimes offered his services for free or would letpeople pay him late."James was a very likable kind of a person," said Larry Hutto, who employedDorff at his own auto shop in the 1970s and '80s. "He was very easy to getalong with, and he did a lot of things for people in need. I'm not trying towhitewash this. James worked on a lot of junk around here that he knew hewasn't going to get paid for. That's the way he was before the accident.""He was one hell of an individual," said Donald Schuelke, who worked forDorff from 1994 to 2000 and learned the mechanic's trade from him. "I'veknown him since I was 10 years old and idolized him."Family and friends, however, said that after the accident, Dorff alienatedhimself from everyone."His demeanor changed so drastically that people walked the other way toavoid talking to him," Schuelke said."It changed his personality and messed with his emotions," Glass, 22, saidfrom her home in Fairbanks."Before the accident, he was our dad," said Smith-Dorff, 24, who lives inDelta Junction. "After, he started not talking, sleeping all the time, hestarted having problems. He got violent.""In a matter of two years, a man doesn't just give up on his family, hiskids and everybody in his life," Glass said. "He doesn't just change likethat."Dorff stopped working and lost interest in his passion, cars. Andeventually, he and his wife, Beth Smith-Dorff, separated after a series ofdomestic violence incidents.Dorff's family and his friends said they tried to get him help. They put himin psychiatric treatment centers multiple times, but he was always released.They tried to get him to Alaska Psychiatric Institute in Anchorage but couldnever get him that far."Someone should have helped him, made him be on medicine," Glass said."He should have gotten the help to get back to the way he was. He was mydad," Smith-Dorff said. "He was just so sick."DiGloria remembers Dorff living near a 10-acre park at Rika's Roadhouse andLanding. In the past few years, DiGloria said, Dorff found solace in animalsat the site. He took a liking to a turkey, peacock, chickens, ducks andother birds. He would come in after closing and feed them, speaking to themand throwing them dinner."He didn't exactly acknowledge that he was sick, but he was a good guy,"DiGloria said.Daily News reporter Megan Holland can be reached at ***@adn.com or257-4343. Peter Porco can be reached at ***@adn.com and 257-4582.