Relatives of a Chicago woman killed in an accident in Riverdale filed a wrongful-death suit Monday against the City of Chicago, accusing unidentified police officers of recklessly chasing a man whose automobile struck the car in which the woman was riding.

The suit, filed on behalf of the estate of Robbie Williams, 24, also claims negligence by Eric Maluchnik 21, of Calumet City, the driver who allegedly was fleeing police. It accuses him of driving at an unreasonable speed to evade police.

Advertisement

Williams, the mother of two girls, was a passenger in a car that was pulling out of a parking space near 140th Street and Indiana Avenue about 1 a.m. Sept. 11 when it was struck, according to the lawsuit filed in Cook County Circuit Court. The impact threw Williams from the car, the suit states.

The suit, seeking damages in excess of $50,000 from both the city and Maluchnik, claims Chicago police officers in three squad cars engaged in a high-speed chase despite department policy against such pursuits because innocent people could be injured.

Advertisement

Chicago attorney Kevin O'Reilly filed the suit on behalf of Marya Williams, the administrator of her sister's estate and guardian of her two daughters. The suit also claims officers did not activate their sirens during the pursuit to alert nearby motorists.

Jennifer Hoyle, spokeswoman for the City of Chicago Law Department, said she could not comment on the suit because city attorneys had not yet seen it. David Bayless, Chicago police spokesman, said the department's internal affairs division was investigating what role, if any, its officers might have played in the crash. It was not known why police might have been chasing Maluchnik.

He was charged with leaving the scene of a fatal accident, state's attorney's office spokesman Tom Stanton said.

Maluchnik was ordered held in lieu of $250,000 bail when he appeared before Judge Thomas Condon in the Markham branch of the Circuit Court on Sept. 17, Stanton said. A preliminary hearing is scheduled for Thursday.