Quoted:

Post from NCPatrolAR:

As for the head bangin gthing; I'm still trying to picture how they could have drug the suspect out in such a manner that his head with be repeatedily striking the steps as they descended them. I dont get that part of the story.

By dragging him down the stairs by the feet/legs?



I think I've seen that on a few cartoons, before.



Eric The(Unsurprised)Hun





So from your chair, on the word of one "witness" it's a fact?





Give it up.





The one thing almost all of you knee jerk cop bashers fail to understand is that most of the time police are called to situations where the ball is already rolling towards an unfortunate conclusion. In the end it all comes dow to perception of liability. My department had 6 in custody deaths from 88 to 92. The commonality was that all the subjects had one or more of the following:



Illicit drugs at high/near lethal levels in their bloodstream(resulting in cocaine psychosis/toxicosis.)



AND/ or psyche meds



and/or



sub theraputic levels if psyche meds denoting non-compliance resulting the aggressive/bizarre behavior that brough the cops there in the first place.



and/ or



a history of cardiac problems(like an enlarged heart), asthma or long history of drug abuse or mental illness.









I have to laugh when you say no one should die for stealing electricity, and act like that's what actually occured, that he was killed for stealing wattage. Does that mean that every 911 call that types as a benign sounding run has to have eventless outcome?



Fuck no pinheads. What summoned LE to the house was a service call to stop the theft of electricity. When the perp under the influence of drugs alledgedly became non-compliant and escalated the force continuum, the police exercised sound tactics and didn't shoot him, they didn't engage him in physical combat or strike him with impact weapons, they used the less than lethal technology they've been trained to use. And that almost never has a poor outcome, and in the rare instances it does, it generally is for precisely the reasons I listed above.





For one to conclude he was killed for electricity theft(especially by an officer of the court(ETH!)) is such small minded shortsighted thinking that it stuns me. Eric, I mean no disrepect but from what little I know about you it seems you do mostly divorce type law. Stick to it. I'd hate to see what you'd do jumping to conclusions for someones money. You guys should be part of the liberal media, spinning and twisting the facts to further your ass ended opinions of police officers.



If I decide to throw on the leaf blower and clean the yard at 3am and the cops show up and I refuse verbal repeated orders to stop, they will eventually correctly hose me with OC or zap me. That's how it works. The fact that I elected to snort a few lines of coke and some meth isn't their fault, but I guess you all would believe that it is.



I mean no one deserves to be OC'd or zapped for wanting a clean yard right?





So from your chair, on the word of one "witness" it's a fact?Give it up.The one thing almost all of you knee jerk cop bashers fail to understand is that most of the time police are called to situations where the ball is already rolling towards an unfortunate conclusion. In the end it all comes dow to perception of liability. My department had 6 in custody deaths from 88 to 92. The commonality was that all the subjects had one or more of the following:Illicit drugs at high/near lethal levels in their bloodstream(resulting in cocaine psychosis/toxicosis.)AND/ or psyche medsand/orsub theraputic levels if psyche meds denoting non-compliance resulting the aggressive/bizarre behavior that brough the cops there in the first place.and/ ora history of cardiac problems(like an enlarged heart), asthma or long history of drug abuse or mental illness.I have to laugh when you say no one should die for stealing electricity, and act like that's what actually occured, that he was killed for stealing wattage. Does that mean that every 911 call that types as a benign sounding run has to have eventless outcome?Fuck no pinheads. What summoned LE to the house was a service call to stop the theft of electricity. When the perp under the influence of drugs alledgedly became non-compliant and escalated the force continuum, the police exercised sound tactics and didn't shoot him, they didn't engage him in physical combat or strike him with impact weapons, they used the less than lethal technology they've been trained to use. And that almost never has a poor outcome, and in the rare instances it does, it generally is for precisely the reasons I listed above.For one to conclude he was killed for electricity theft(especially by an officer of the court(ETH!)) is such small minded shortsighted thinking that it stuns me. Eric, I mean no disrepect but from what little I know about you it seems you do mostly divorce type law. Stick to it. I'd hate to see what you'd do jumping to conclusions for someones money. You guys should be part of the liberal media, spinning and twisting the facts to further your ass ended opinions of police officers.If I decide to throw on the leaf blower and clean the yard at 3am and the cops show up and I refuse verbal repeated orders to stop, they will eventually correctly hose me with OC or zap me. That's how it works. The fact that I elected to snort a few lines of coke and some meth isn't their fault, but I guess you all would believe that it is.I mean no one deserves to be OC'd or zapped for wanting a clean yard right?