A 17-year law enforcement veteran who shot and killed an Upstate man during an alleged burglary attempt in 2004 was cleared Wednesday after a four-month investigation.

A SLED investigation cleared Orangeburg County Sheriff's Lt. Thomas "Ty" Haigler of any wrongful action in what police say was an attempt to steal products from an Orangeburg chemical plant.

"The solicitor clearly stated that my officer discharged his weapon in the best interest of the lives of fellow officers as well as himself," Sheriff Larry Williams said. "I hope he and his family can get back to some normalcy."

After a fatal shooting involving police, the State Law Enforcement Division handled the investigation and turned over its findings to the solicitor in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred.

First Circuit Solicitor David Pascoe reviewed those findings and announced Wednesday there was no criminal action on the part of Haigler.

"Based on the totality of the circumstances, the First Circuit Solicitor's Office finds no criminal wrongdoing on the part of Lt. Haigler," Pascoe stated in a letter to Williams. "It was impossible for Lt. Haigler to know whether or not the subjects had intentions of harming the other officers on the scene. This is particularly evident when one factors in that the subjects' vehicle was moving at a high rate of speed toward a law enforcement officer sitting in his cruiser and the subjects were armed with a deadly weapon. The First Circuit Solicitor's Office considers this matter closed."

Haigler's being placed on administrative leave after such an incident is normal, Williams said. The narcotics officer will return to active duty.

Josh Beasley, 27, of Greenville, was killed after being struck by a single bullet early on Sept. 26, 2004, police say.

Around 1 a.m. that day, investigators staking out Helena Chemical and Nitrogen Storage facility on S.C. Highway 33 noticed a black Ford truck pull up to a locked gate at the plant's entrance. As the subjects cut the padlock on the gate, the on-site investigators began calling for backup.

Investigators were unable to wait for that backup to arrive as the situation turned violent before responding deputies could get into place.

"I heard what appeared to be a gunshot coming from the black pickup truck," an OCSO deputy recorded in his official report of the incident. "And I observed Lt. Haigler, who was on foot at the time, who fired one shot at the (Ford truck) before the vehicle left the mill grounds."

About 10 minutes later, the black Ford truck was located a few miles away in a ditch on Whitford Stage Road, which runs parallel to but does not connect with Interstate 26.

Corey Carli Newman, 30, of 879 Nash Mill Road, Fountain Inn, and Joseph William Shockley, 41, of an unknown Upstate address, were charged with assault with intent to kill, manufacturing methamphetamine, possession of a stolen vehicle, possession of a stolen vehicle license tag, trespassing and petit larceny.

While Newman was taken into custody, Shockley complained of heart pains and was taken to The Regional Medical Center.

Those two men are still awaiting a date in circuit court.

Before tangling with police, the subjects had filled two propane tanks with a combined capacity of about 60 pounds of chemicals, Williams said. Two propane bottles of ammonium nitrate were recovered. Nothing else was missing from the facility.

Investigators say the ammonium nitrate would have been used in this instance to manufacture methamphetamine.

T&D Staff Writer Richard Walker can be reached by e-mail at rwalker@timesanddemocrat.com or by phone at 803-533-5516.