Police shot and killed a bike messenger on a busy Manhattan intersection yesterday after the man refused to drop his gun – an antique-style derringer that cops said was still deadly.

Boangeres Mota, 36, was pronounced dead at St. Vincent’s Hospital at 3:42 p.m., less than two hours after his dramatic face-off with police on a crowded Chelsea street.

Police sources first said that Mota’s derringer – an old-fashioned weapon rarely seen on city streets – was probably inoperable because a metal ball was jammed in its barrel, although the officers who shot him would have had no way of knowing that.

But the gun was later tested and found to work, authorities said.

Mota was an ex-con who served eight years in prison for a 1990 machete attack on a man in Brooklyn and also had a prior burglary arrest. Until last week, Mota had worked for Columbus Delivery, a bike-messenger service on West 24th Street.

Police were called to the business Friday after Mota pistol-whipped and beat up a co-worker – but he was gone by the time they arrived.

Just before 2 p.m. yesterday, someone at Columbus called police and told them Mota had telephoned to say he was coming in to pick up his paycheck.

Two detectives and a sergeant went there to get him.

When they arrived, they were told Mota had just left – but was still in the neighborhood, wearing a red shirt and black pants.

The plainclothes cops spotted Mota walking less than a half-block away, at the intersection of West 24th Street and Seventh Avenue, police said.

The cops yelled at Mota to stop, and one of the detectives tried to grab him, setting off a free for all, police said.

As they wrestled, Mota pulled out the black derringer – a gun made famous in Wild West shootouts – and the other two cops repeatedly yelled at him to “Drop it, drop it!” police said.

When Mota refused to let go of his gun, one of the cops fired two shots, and another fired one shot – as terrified pedestrians ran for their lives.

Mota suffered wounds to his right arm and chest and collapsed in a pool of blood. It was not clear how many rounds hit him.

Martin Canning, 36, was walking into a nearby Kinko’s with his wife and their 7-month-old daughter when the mayhem erupted. “You heard ‘crack, crack, crack’ – three shots,” said Canning, who shoved his wife and child into the store as the gunfire rang out.

Canning said he saw one of the cops kick the gun out of Mota’s hand, but “he was still going nuts, lunging after them” from the ground. Canning said he then saw a cop shoot Mota in the arm.

Police disputed Canning’s account, saying cops shot at Mota only while he was holding the gun.