A Chattanooga Police SWAT Team shot and killed an East Brainerd man Wednesday night after he barricaded himself in his home.

James "Jimmy" Lindsey Jr., 57, had fired at officers after they came inside, and they returned fire, authorities said.

Police said earlier in the day Lindsey had fired a shot that hit the ear of his mother, Ruth Lindsey, 74.

That occurred at 4:40 p.m. at her duplex at 7509 Leemont Dr.

SWAT Team members said they negotiated with the man prior to finally entering.

One SWAT Team member reportedly had a minor eye injury.

Chattanooga Police gave this account of the incident:

"Yesterday afternoon a little before 5 p.m. Chattanooga Police Officers responded to a shooting call at 7509 Leemont Dr. Once on the scene, officers found the victim of the shooting, Ruth Lindsey, 74, with a gunshot wound to her ear. She was taken to the hospital for treatment and later released.

"She told police that it was her son, 57-year-old James “Jimmy” Lindsey, that had shot her and that he was still inside the house with the gun. The initial patrol officers set up a perimeter around the house and awaited the arrival of the SWAT Team and Hostage Negotiators. Once the SWAT officers and negotiators arrived on the scene, it was turned over to their command.

"The Chattanooga Police Department Hostage Negotiators attempted to make contact with the barricaded gunman by phone and by using a bullhorn. All attempts to develop contact with the suspect were met with silence and no response. Eventually, arrest warrants for attempted first degree murder and aggravated assault were obtained on the suspect and an entry was planned in an effort to locate the suspect and determine his status.

"Following the introduction of gas into the duplex, the SWAT entry team began a top to bottom search. Upon entering the last room, the suspect fired multiple rounds from a 12-gauge shotgun at the officers. Tactical protective equipment absorbed some of the pellet destruction. The officers returned fire fatally wounding the suspect.

