Antonio Manrique, a quiet grandfather who spoke limited English, died from a beating at the hands of two Blue Island police officers, according to a wrongful death lawsuit filed Thursday by his family.

The lawsuit in Cook County Circuit Court says the officers beat Manrique, 74, about the head and torso with their fists and batons, causing internal bleeding and blood clots that ultimately led to his death.

Advertisement

City officials declined to comment on the suit, which stems from an Oct. 6 incident in which two officers, Charles Sykes and Berni Rzab, responded to a call in the 2300 block of West Krueger Street about gang graffiti.

Upon arriving at the scene, the officers encountered two men in a dark alley and called out to both of them to stop, police reported. One man tried to flee on a bicycle, and the other, Manrique, was reported to have "trotted away." He was subsequently tackled to the ground, the police report said.

Advertisement

The officers were driving an unmarked car and were not in uniform, said attorney Timothy Tomasik, who represents Manrique's family. Manrique appeared to be shaking after the incident, the police report said.

He told officers he was suffering from a diabetic attack.

"By all accounts, he was not violating any law," Tomasik said. "He was not threatening anyone."

He was not charged with a crime.

Tomasik described Manrique as a gentle and frail man who had an unsteady gait and would tremble when he walked.

"This is a case of a grandfather who is now dead because police officers exercised extreme and excessive force, killing an innocent elderly gentleman," he said.

Manrique, a Mexican immigrant, suffered several broken ribs during the confrontation and was taken to the hospital. He was covered in cuts and bruises, Tomasik said. Manrique died four days later.

"When the police exercise any level of force, it must be reasonable," Tomasik said. "Rather than making reasonable attempts to stop and interview him, he was aggressively tackled, thrown to the ground and battered on the city streets."

Advertisement

Manrique's daughter, speaking at a news conference in the Clifford Law Offices, said she wants justice not only for her father, but for the entire community.

"We come here with heavy hearts," said Celina Chastain, one of Manrique's daughters. "... The brutality that our dad suffered was undeserved."

Manrique's wife of 49 years, Rebeca, cried throughout the news conference, clasping onto another daughter's arm. The couple planned to renew their wedding vows for their 50th anniversary, Chastain said.

The Cook County medical examiner's office has not ruled on a cause of death pending further investigation. Tomasik said medical experts he consulted with believe Manrique's death was a direct result of the injuries suffered.

Manrique's story has struck a nerve in Blue Island. Twelve federal lawsuits have been filed against the city's Police Department since his death.

Police Chief Douglas Hoglund did not return calls Thursday, and neither did the two officers named in the complaint.

Advertisement

Blue Island Mayor Donald Peloquin had little to say about the case.

"Until I see the whole lawsuit and talk to counsel I really don't have any comment," he said.

City attorney Cary Horvath said he had not yet read the complaint and therefore had no comment. Hoglund has said in the past that both officers involved in the case have since been assigned to desk duty.