The city medical examiner is investigating the death yesterday of an emotionally disturbed man whom cops subdued with pepper spray after he went into a frenzy on a Bronx street, authorities said. Police and witnesses said that during the incident, Edward James Moore, 37, tore off his clothes, rammed his head through his car windows and attacked his mother. Moore was pronounced dead at Jacobi Medical Center at 1:35 p.

m., nearly an hour after he went into cardiac arrest after officers used pepper spray to restrain him, police said. When the eight officers and a sergeant from the 47th Precinct arrived at 12:17 p.

Advertisement

m., they found a bloodied Moore sitting nude in his sport-utility vehicle, police said. Neighbors who witnessed the 20-minute spectacle said Moore ran out of his mother's house on E. 216th St., Williamsbridge, stripped off his shorts and T-shirt and, while shouting, yanked a mirror from a parked van and climbed atop his own truck. A 59-year-old woman who lives on the block said Moore then used his head, wrapped in a towel, to ram his car's window. "He took a dive [through the window] and went straight through the other side," she said, adding that he climbed in and out of the shattered windows several times. "It was scary because you did not know what he would do next," she said. "He just went berserk," said another neighbor. "The police came and tried to do what they could.

" Police said the officers kept a "zone of safety" - a distance of about 20 feet - around Moore until he pounced on top of his mother, Lilly Johnson, 57, who had tried to calm her son. After lying on top of her, he then began dragging her off by the hair, yelling, "They are not the real police!

Advertisement

" which prompted the officers to spray him, said a police source. "The cops had no choice but to subdue him," the source said, adding paramedics rushed Moore to the hospital. Police said Moore, who worked for Con Edison, drove to his mother's house after his girlfriend locked him out of their New Jersey home. Cops said he claimed during his tirade that his girlfriend had put a curse on him. Police said Moore had a criminal record, with arrests for possession of marijuana, narcotics and a gun. The cause of his death is yet to be determined, pending an autopsy, police said.