Sixteen years working as principal of Goudy Elementary School has taught Patrick Durkin to talk straight to kids.

So with a crisis counselor at his side Wednesday morning, he told Alexander Diaz's two dozen 1st-grade classmates as plainly as he could that their school friend had been killed in an accident.

Advertisement

"It's something that can't be changed," Goudy told the pupils. "We must miss him and think about him but remember that he will not be back."

Just after 8 p.m. Tuesday, Alexander was struck and killed by a stolen sport-utility vehicle as he crossed a street in the Ravenswood neighborhood on the North Side with his mother and three siblings, Leticia, 13, Margarito, 7, and Gabriela, 6 months, who was in a stroller.

Advertisement

The SUV that hit the family, a gray 1998 Lexus, was being pursued by an unmarked police car moments before it crashed into the family, police spokesman Pat Camden said.

But Camden stressed that police actions did not precipitate the accident. "There was no chase at all," he said.

About 7:45 p.m., Camden said, three plainclothes officers were conducting an interview in the 1400 block of West Wilson Avenue when the SUV pulled up and the occupants flashed gang signs and yelled out a Latin Kings gang slogan.

While the SUV was stopped at a traffic light, Camden said, the officers identified themselves as police and approached the vehicle on foot.

"They yelled out, `Police, put it in park,"' Camden said. "As the light turns green, the car pulls away."

As it did, Camden said, the driver's-side mirror hit one of the officers in the left arm.

As the SUV continued west on Wilson, the officers scrambled to their unmarked car and turned it around to pursue the vehicle, Camden said. The officers saw the SUV turn south on Greenview Avenue, but they lost sight of it, Camden said.

When they next spotted the SUV about a block away, it had already hit the Diaz family and crashed into the Spanish Disciples of Christ Christian Church at the corner of Greenview and Sunnyside Avenues, Camden said.

Advertisement

Camden said shouting gang slogans and flashing gang signs is not against the law, but, he added, the officers had probable cause to question three purported gang members in a vehicle shouting at four people on the street.

"Three gang members in a stolen vehicle is a recipe for a drive-by shooting," Camden said.

But Richard Kling, a Chicago-Kent College of Law professor and defense lawyer, questioned whether there was any probable cause to stop the men in the car. "Without any criminal activity, I'm not sure there is probable cause to do anything but to watch them," Kling said.

Kling, however, did point to a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling that a person who makes contact with police and then turns away constitutes probable cause for a police officer to take action.

"If they looked in the direction of the police and fled, it gets dicey," Kling said.

Those who heard the crash and rushed to help knew almost nothing about what led to the accident.

Advertisement

The three men who were in the SUV immediately ran but were quickly apprehended by police. As of late Wednesday, no charges had been filed against the men, two 20-year-olds and a 21-year-old.

Neighbors found the SUV against the church and a family in shock nearby.

Rev. Ruben Cruz of the Disciples of Christ Christian Church said the tragedy abruptly ended a prayer meeting.

"We heard the thud and then screaming," he said. "One of the people who was in the prayer meeting looked out the door and said `There's been an accident.'"

Cruz rushed out the door to find Alexander lying motionless near the curb, the other children were in shock and their mother was screaming.

While a neighbor tried to revive Alexander using CPR, Cruz attended to the other family members. "Mostly the children were in shock, the baby was not crying," he said.

Advertisement

Cruz, who spent much of Tuesday night and Wednesday with the family, said that besides Alexander, Leticia Diaz was the only family member seriously injured.