A Cathlamet woman who displayed a gun after a minor car accident Thursday afternoon led police on a 20-mile chase on Interstate 5 that ended when she shot and killed herself by the Longview Wye interchange, according to the Washington State Patrol.

Earlier that day, Lewis County officials had released a report that Stephanie Dawn Bair, 34, was missing, endangered, believed to be depressed and armed with a 9 mm handgun, WSP Trooper Garvin March said.

At about 2:15 p.m., WSP troopers responded to a report that a white Nissan had lost control and spun out on State Route 503, about one mile east of Woodland. A witness called 911 and said the female driver had a gun in her hand, March said.

Woodland police officers spotted the Nissan, which Bair was driving, March said. She would not pull over, and police pursued her northbound on Interstate 5 at speeds of 70 to 80 miles per hour. Officers said they could see Bair holding a gun to her head, March said.

At Milepost 35, Bair's car ran over a spike strip that the WSP had laid on the road, and her tires slowly deflated, March said. At 2:33 p.m., the car rolled to a stop at Milepost 37, nearly under the State Route 432 overpass leading into Longview.

After stopping traffic in both directions, officers stood at a distance and tried to talk Bair out of the car using a P.A. system. Bair didn't respond, but she was moving in the vehicle, March said. However, by 3:08 p.m., Bair was slumped over and still, dead from an apparent self-inflicted single gunshot wound to the head, officials said.

Traffic in southbound lanes of I-5, which reopened at 3:15 p.m., was backed up for three miles, according to the WSP. Northbound lanes, which reopened at 4 p.m., were backed up for about six miles, WSP officials said. While the interstate was closed, police re-routed the bumper-to-bumper traffic through Kelso and Longview.

Bair's family has been notified, Cowlitz County Coroner Mike Nichols said.

The Cowlitz County Sheriff's Office will investigate the case, March said.