Amber Alert suspect Jeffrey Eggiman fired four times at the two deputies who tried to take him into custody before he was fatally shot last Friday morning on an isolated logging road off McDowell Creek Drive north of Sweet Home, Linn County Sheriff Dave Burright said Monday.

Tests showed that Eggiman, 38, of Silverton, had fired his .357-caliber revolver. Found inside the cab of the truck he was driving were a loaded semi-automatic handgun and several knives, the sheriff said.

The two deputies, Cpl., Mike Harmon and Deputy Micah Smith, fired 13 rounds at Eggiman, and six bullets hit him, according to results of an autopsy conducted at the state Medical Examiner Division facility in Portland.

The autopsy was performed Saturday. Burright said preliminary results that he released Monday indicate that Eggiman suffered a grazing wound to the right hand, and a shot to the left hand, to the right wrist and two to the upper right leg.

Also, he was hit in the face by bullet fragments. Death is believed to be due to loss of blood caused by one of the bullets that hit the leg and severed the femoral artery.

The Marion County Sheriff's Office conducted the investigation into Eggiman's death. Marion officials will deliver its investigative report to the Marion County District Attorney for an independent review.

The incident involving Eggiman began at noon Thursday following a call to the Mount Angel Police Deparment reporting that Tanner Kahn, 11, had been taken from his home in his mother's Ford Ranger pickup. Deputies found Tanner unharmed in the back seat of the pickup, where he had been sleeping.

The boy was returned to his mother, Tanya Kahn, Friday morning. Oregon State Police identified Eggiman as the mother's former boyfriend.

It still is unknown what Eggiman's intentions were toward the boy, Burright said. Tanner has said the pair were in hiding and that Eggiman had made statements saying they both needed to watch out for police.

Harmon and Smith were put on administrative leave. Burright said they will remain on leave until the Marion and Linn district attorney's offices review the investigative report.