Faded blood splatters on the porch of a house in Burnham on Sunday marked the tragic end of a standoff between police and an ex-convict who held his ex-girlfriend hostage for more than seven hours Saturday.

A police sharpshooter fatally shot Jeffrey Arthur, 38, in the face about 9 p.m. as he stood outside his home in the 2900 block of East 138th Place in the south suburb, officials said.

Advertisement

Arthur was holding a handgun to his ex-girlfriend's head and choking her with his other hand, police said. A marksman for the South Suburban Emergency Response Team, fearing for the woman's life, fired once at Arthur and struck him, Burnham Police Chief James Crull said.

Arthur was pronounced dead at 10 p.m. in Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, said a spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner.

Advertisement

Illinois State Police and the Cook County Public Integrity Unit are investigating the shooting. Crull declined to comment on earlier reports that Arthur exchanged gunfire with police before he was shot.

This incident was not the first time police had contact with Arthur, who had been convicted seven times on various charges and who police said had vowed he would not return to prison.

Police had accompanied Arthur's ex-girlfriend early Saturday when she first tried to retrieve her car from his garage, Crull said.

Court records show the woman had a restraining order issued against Arthur in August.

No one answered the door, Crull said, so the ex-girlfriend and the officers left. But neighbors said the woman returned less than an hour later, this time with her brother, to retrieve her vehicle.

This time, according to police, Arthur opened the door, drew a handgun and took the woman hostage. Arthur later released her brother, who called Burnham police around 1:55 p.m.

Police blocked off the ends of 138th Place and called in the suburban response team as negotiators tried to end the standoff. But police said Arthur threatened to kill the woman and police several times and fired his gun out of the front window during the standoff.

Residents said police instructed them to stay in their homes during the standoff, and those returning home were barred from entering the street.

Advertisement

Lupe Aguado, 36, pleaded with officers to let her onto the block so she could pick up her seven children. Aguado said the officer let her to go home using a back alley.

Brenda Betz tried to take her garbage out the back door. A marksman sitting on a nearby roof gestured for her to get back into the house.

"He pointed the gun toward me ... and I went back into the house," said Betz, 45.

After seven hours of negotiations, Arthur forced his ex-girlfriend out of the house, initiating his last in a series of confrontations with authorities.

In an 18-year span, Arthur had been convicted for aggravated battery, intimidation, possession of a firearm, aggravated unlawful restraint and attempted murder, records show. Arthur was paroled in March after serving a year for driving on a revoked or suspended license.

Neighbors said Arthur worked for a company that rehabbed houses. They frequently saw him walking down the street to Tally Ho, a tavern one block away at 3000 E. 138th Pl. Betz said she saw Arthur one day stumbling down the street for a half-hour.

Advertisement

"He was always loaded when you saw him," Betz said. "I told my grandkids to stay away from him."