BY MARK J. KONKOL, The Chicago Sun-Times

A suspected rapist was shot and seriously wounded inside Belmont Area police headquarters Thursday after attacking a Chicago Police detective with a screwdriver, police said.

David Wilson, 51, a felon wanted for criminal sexual assault and being questioned about two other rapes, lured a 13-year police veteran into a tiny interrogation room by asking for a cigarette, police spokesman Pat Camden said. Inside the room, Wilson threw a punch and tried to stab the detective with a 7-inch screwdriver. The detective drew his gun and fired three shots, hitting Wilson twice in the arm and once in the chest, Camden said.

The incident was one of two police shootings in the Northwest Side district on Thursday. A 72-year-old man who allegedly tried to knife a cop was shot and killed in the 5400 block of Kenmore.

Police believe Wilson, who wasn't handcuffed while he was eating a sandwich, pulled the screwdriver from his coat. Investigators are trying to determine if the jacket was properly searched when Wilson was taken into custody late Wednesday in the 900 block of North Wilson.

Why was gun in room?

Police are also investigating why the detective had his gun with him inside the interrogation room -- contrary to department policy.

In 1999, former police Supt. Terry Hillard ordered officers to put away their guns before entering interview rooms. The directive was issued after a suspect wrestled away an officer's gun in a South Side police station, fired a shot and then killed himself.

Camden said the detective was leaving the building Thursday, not conducting an interview at the time. Wilson got his attention. And when the detective opened the door, he was attacked, Camden said.

Wilson was recently released from jail but was wanted on a warrant for criminal sexual assault. He also was listed as a positive match on a national DNA database in connection with two November 2002 sexual assaults. In both cases, women were punched in the face and brutalized after they answered the doors of their North Side homes on Sheridan Road, sources said.

Another police shooting

While charges are expected in both rape cases and the attack on the detective, Camden said prosecutors still have to interview Wilson, who was listed in serious condition at Illinois Masonic Hospital.

Police also will conduct a roundtable discussion to determine if the shooting was justified.

"He gets swung at and gets hit by the guy with handcuffs," Camden said. "Then the guy is coming at him with screwdriver. Put yourself in a [small] room and answer that question."

In the other police shooting Thursday, a Belmont District officer fatally shot a 72-year-old man while responding to a domestic violence call at 5429 N. Kenmore. Witnesses said the man was threatening his wife with a knife. The man charged the officer, who shot him. The Cook County medical examiner's office would not identify the man late Thursday.