Two possible suspects, one of them a Cook County correctional officer, were being held for questioning Monday in the beating death of Michael Chambers, a Chicago Water Department foreman who died in a violent brawl at a west suburban banquet hall early Sunday, authorities said.

No charges have been filed in the case.

Advertisement

The apparent focus on a correctional officer, however, marks the second time this year a Sheriff's Department employee may have had a role in a fatal beating. In July, a sheriff's police sergeant and two deputies were indicted on first-degree murder charges for allegedly beating a 40-year-old house painter to death in a holding cell at the Bridgeview courthouse.

Investigators huddled behind closed doors at the Countryside Police Station Monday, trying to sort out what happened at the Holiday Inn in Countryside where members of two separate wedding parties apparently clashed, leaving Chambers, 39, dead.

Advertisement

Chambers was attending one wedding reception while nearby, a Cook County sheriff's officer was celebrating his nuptials at a reception that drew other officers.

The scene was hectic at the west suburban police station Monday. Distraught relatives of the suspects came and went, but said nothing.

Paramedics who responded to the brawl were also at the police station, as were representatives for the Cook County medical examiner and state's attorney.

If investigators discovered any answers, they were not discussing the matter publicly.

The Cook County medical examiner's officer said the cause and manner of Chambers' death was still not determined, even though an autopsy had been conducted Sunday.

Unless a death investigation requires lab results from extensive blood tests, the cause of death typically is disclosed after an autopsy and a determination is made about whether the death was the result of a crime or an accident.

The doctor who performed the autopsy was among those meeting at the Countryside Police Station.

Countryside Police Lt. Kenneth Brunke said only that two suspects were being held and that no charges were expected Monday night.

Advertisement

Meanwhile, a spokesman for Cook County Sheriff Michael Sheahan said Countryside police had not officially notified the department that one of their officers might be a suspect.

A supervising prosecutor at the Bridgeview courthouse, where any criminal case stemming from the incident would be tried, was attending the wedding for the officer but was not present when the brawl broke out, sources said.

Officials confirmed that the prosecutor was in attendance and said he would have no role in the investigation.

Chambers, the brother of Cook County Comptroller John Chambers, was a respected activist and political volunteer in his Irving Park community. He was attending a wedding at the banquet hall when he apparently intervened in a brawl to protect his fiance and the bride's mother.

Members of the second wedding party were attending nuptial celebrations for another Cook County corrections officer, a member of the department's elite Special Operations Response Team, a unit that escorts high-risk inmates to court, does cell searches and responds to prison disturbances at Cook County Jail, sources said.

According to witnesses, Chambers had left the banquet hall late Saturday night to get food at a nearby restaurant. When he returned, he learned that his fiance and the bride's mother for the wedding he attended, were being shoved around near the front desk of the hotel.

Advertisement

When Chambers intervened, he was pummeled to the tile floor and repeatedly kicked in the head, witnesses said.

After police arrived, Chambers was taken to La Grange Memorial Hospital where he was pronounced dead at 3:40 a.m. Sunday.

Details of exactly how the fight started and escalated were sketchy. But some witnesses said the incident began when members of the officers wedding began making lewd remarks at women from the other wedding.