A Chicago man was arrested and charged with murder Thursday in connection with the traffic death in Evanston of a Chicago teenager on Tuesday.

Levar D. Drane, 27, of the 800 block of Sunnyside Avenue in Chicago, is charged with one count of first-degree murder in the death of Tarrea Black, 16, of Chicago.

Evanston Police Department released a statement Thursday alleging that Drane was speeding westbound on Main Street in a stolen 1993 Honda at about 10:15 p.m. Tuesday, with Black and Ezell L. Holden, 25, of the 3300 block of Simpson Ave. in Evanston, as passengers.

Police believe either Black or Holden told Drane that a police car was behind the car with its emergency lights on, the statement said. The car was an unmarked Chicago Police Department vehicle.

Drane then allegedly sped down Main to Dodge Avenue and tried to make a left turn, the statement said. The car he was driving hit a van in the intersection, careened off of the van, jumped the curb, then hit a traffic light and iron post.

The car rolled over before coming to a stop resting on the driver’s side door, police said.

Drane allegedly climbed out of the vehicle and fled the scene, the EPD statement said. Police later found him at an Evanston hospital where he had gone for treatment of his injuries from the crash.

Black, of the 7100 block of N. Ridge Blvd. in Chicago, was pronounced dead on the scene, the statement said.

Holden was taken to St. Francis Hospital, 355 Ridge Ave., where he was reported in critical condition Thursday with major injuries to the head.

A 17-year-old Chicago resident was driving the van that Drane allegedly hit at the intersection, the statement said. He also was taken to St. Francis, treated for a possible concussion and released.

Chicago Police spokesman Pat Camden said the Chicago police officers noticed a man suspiciously going from customer to customer at a Howard Street gas station with what appeared to be a credit card in his hands.

He said the man got into the stolen Honda when the officers pulled into the parking lot, then started speeding.

Camden said the officers were not chasing Drane’s car when it crashed, but that Drane was trying to elude police.

Drane is scheduled to appear Nov. 18 at Circuit Court in Skokie.

— Alison Knezevich