printable version - email this article man killed by officer in Elyria

by elle / PD Tuesday, Nov. 09, 2004 at 7:13 AM

berlin man killed by officer in Elyria at end of foot chase Monday, November 08, 2004 Mark Rollenhagen Plain Dealer Reporter

A foot chase in downtown Elyria early Sunday morning ended with a police

officer fatally shooting an Oberlin man.



Police Chief Michael Medders said James A. Cain Jr., 22, of Oberlin, was

shot by an officer after Cain shot a bar bouncer who saw the chase and

joined in.



The incident began a few minutes before 3 a.m. when police officers David

Ross and Michael Merrill were driving on Lake Avenue and heard what

sounded like a gunshot coming from Merchant's Alley.



They stopped to investigate and saw Cain stick a handgun into his

waistband and run, Medders said. Merrill stayed with a prisoner in the

patrol car, and Ross gave chase.



Brian Dunegan, 22, a bouncer at the Mardi Gras bar, was on his way home

after the bar closed for the night when he heard Ross shouting at Cain and

joined in the pursuit.



As Dunegan closed in, Cain turned and fired a shot, striking Dunegan in

the right knee, Medders said. Dunegan continued forward and tackled Cain

on Depot Street.



Ross then shot Cain in the back of his right shoulder.



"His first thought was the guy was going to shoot again," Medders said.



A woman who answered the phone at Cain's family's home in Oberlin said

witnesses told her Cain was shot at least three times in the back.



Medders said that Ross had fired more than once but that he would not say

exactly how many times until after the investigation. He said Ross had

feared that Cain would shoot Dunegan again.



Ross, 33, has been on the Elyria Police Department for about six years.

Medders said that, consistent with the department's policy, Ross was

placed on administrative leave pending a review of the shooting by two of

the department's captains.



Cain died at EMH Regional Medical Center.



He had been paroled from state prison in August after serving six months

for burglary, theft and cocaine possession, according to the Ohio

Department of Rehabilitation and Correction.



Medders said police believe Cain came out of a nearby bar and fired a gun.

They were not sure why.



Dunegan was in fair condition at MetroHealth Medical Center on Sunday

afternoon, awaiting surgery on his knee.



In a telephone interview, he said he wouldn't have joined in the chase if

he had known Cain had a gun. Once he was shot, Dunegan said, he became

more determined to stop Cain.



"I had to get him down," he said. "I wanted to finish it."



Dunegan said he had rolled away in pain before Ross shot Cain.

LATEST COMMENTS ABOUT THIS ARTICLE

Listed below are the 10 latest comments of 10 posted about this article.

These comments are anonymously submitted by the website visitors.

TITLE AUTHOR DATE That was my brother Christine Dunegan Wednesday, Apr. 18, 2007 at 1:14 PM that was my cousin Abby Dunegan Saturday, Feb. 18, 2006 at 7:34 AM that was my couison that was my couison Wednesday, Jun. 08, 2005 at 1:36 PM Glad he's Dead! Glad he's Dead! Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2004 at 12:33 PM Glad he's Dead! Glad he's Dead! Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2004 at 12:31 PM agree to disagree unknown Saturday, Nov. 20, 2004 at 10:17 AM