LAKEPORT – At its Tuesday meeting the Board of Supervisors gave Sheriff Rod Mitchell the go ahead to purchase additional Tasers for his staff.





The discussion that arose surrounding Mitchell's request revealed issues relating to differing viewpoints about use of force and the weapons themselves, the use of which is becoming more common for law enforcement.





The board first approved Tasers for the Lake County Sheriff's Office in April of 2005, when Mitchell received unanimous support to buy 76 of the X26 models at a cost of just of approximately $80,567.97, according to board records.





This past week, Mitchell was asking to purchase 45 more of the same Taser model from Taser International for a total cost of $42,356. The weapons fire two probes, attached to wires, that transmit up to 50,000 volts on contact.





Mitchell said in a 24 month period his department staff had deployed Tasers 21 times in the jail, and had 79 deployments during the same period on patrol.





During his discussion with the board, Mitchell further explained that Tasers are used in the jail when inmates are becoming dangerous or destructive. Rather than sending in numerous correctional staff to try to manually restrain an inmate, Tasers are used to minimize injuries to everyone.





Mitchell said Tasers often become a deterrent, with inmates backing down because they don't want to “ride the lightning.”





In the field, external influences like drugs and alcohol are leading to more encounters where the outcome is Taser usage. “That's what we're encountering in dynamic situations in the field,” said Mitchell.





Supervisor Anthony Farrington asked about the number of complaints and fatalities resulting from the Lake County Sheriff's Office using Tasers. Mitchell said there have been no allegations of fatalities for his agency, and he's only had a few complaints lodged about Taser usage. Each complaint launches an internal affairs investigation, but he said such complaints are rare and it's been some time since one was lodged.





Board Chair Denise Rushing tried to redirect the discussion, saying they were drifting toward an examination of a use of force policy rather than the agenda item itself.





Supervisor Jim Comstock said he considered the Taser a wonderful tool that precludes the use of deadly force. He questioned Mitchell on how long the weapons last, and if they required maintenance.





Mitchell said they do need maintenance, and added, “It is not as rugged as we would like.”





In about 24 months the sheriff's office may be looking at another company with a different technology, said Mitchell. He also noted the cartridges for the Tasers are expensive.





Rushing said the more than $45,000 Mitchell was seeking was a lot of money for equipment, although she recognized it was coming out of asset forfeiture money.





She asked if he had negotiated the best price, and asked what would happen if the board didn't approve the full amount. Mitchell replied that he would purchase fewer of the units.





Lucerne resident Lenny Matthews said she had no idea that Tasers were used in the jail. She said she had worked in the Sonoma County Jail for several years and couldn't imagine Tasers being used in a jail setting. “I'm appalled.”





“This is a good example of the use of force debate issue,” replied Mitchell.





He said Tasers are being used by many agencies. “To suggest the use of force in a custody setting in Lake County is different or more barbaric than somebody's experience in Sonoma County is naïve in the least,” Mitchell added.





Rushing cut off the continued discussion between Matthews and Mitchell, and said the board would discuss the use of force policy at another time.





Supervisor Rob Brown had briefly stepped out of the room during the exchange, and returned to say he had confirmed with a contact in the Sonoma County Jail that Tasers are used there.





Mitchell told the board that all of his patrol staff are issued Tasers, with several dozen currently in use.





Brown said he appreciated that Rushing wanted a cost analysis of the Tasers, but added, “There are some things that common sense will dictate.”





He said it's rare that deputies have to use the weapons. “It's a tool for public safety.”





Brown moved to approve three motions – one to approve the purchase, the second to determine the competitive bidding process would produce no economic benefit to the county and the third to authorize Mitchell and the assistant purchasing agent to sign the purchase order. The vote on each of the motions was 4-1, with Rushing the lone no vote.





Taser usage subject of controversy





In recent years, controversy has arisen about Taser usage based on the number of deaths that have resulted, and the debate over whether the weapons really result in less use of firearms.





One of the groups that has spoken out about Tasers is Amnesty International, which raised concerns about the weapons being deployed both on the streets and in jails. An Amnesty International report stated that those who died from Taser usage were subjected to repeated or prolonged shocks.





Lake County has had one death that followed Taser usage. In November 2004, Keith Drum was shot with a Taser during an early-morning struggle with Clearlake Police officers. Drum, who was on methamphetamine, also was pepper sprayed and restrained before he stopped breathing, according to a report that was issued by the District Attorney's Office.





Amnesty International listed the X26 Taser as model of particular concern. The X26 is a commonly used law enforcement model which is already in use in local agencies, including the Lakeport and Clearlake Police departments, and the Lake County Sheriff's Office. Sheriff Rod Mitchell on Tuesday asked the board to approve his request to buy 45 X26 Tasers.





During his Tuesday presentation to the Board of Supervisors, Mitchell reported usage statistics for his department in a 24-month period – 21 deployments in the jail, 79 on patrol, or an average of less than one Taser deployment per month in the jail and 1.6 deployments per month on the street.





Mitchell told Lake County News that during that same 24-month period deputies had only had one use of a firearm, which was during a confrontation with a man on Cobb. The firearm's use resulted in no one being hit.





He said they currently have no staff out on work-related injuries due to fighting with subjects who are resisting arrest.





Neighboring counties also use Tasers.





Capt. Rich Williams of the Yolo County Sheriff's Office confirmed that his agency has used Tasers for the past five years, and also use them in jail settings.





Capt. Timothy Pearce of the Mendocino County Sheriff's Office said Tasers have been used about seven years there. In the jails, only supervisors carry them.





Taser usage also is reportedly growing in Europe, including Great Britain, where police officers have not traditionally carried firearms.





Mitchell added that the Taser assists law enforcement, but no one – including himself – believes it to be a “be all, end all” solution.





E-mail Elizabeth Larson at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. .