November 8, 2004

Reported by Pam Dixon

It was an unfortunate series of events that led to the death of a mentally ill man at the hands of police. Lake Charles police were called to a disturbance at the Chateau Du Lac high rise apartments at 333 Mill Street early Monday morning. The disturbance ended with gunfire.

Police were familiar with 48 year old Edward Ned, Junior. He had called the police department more than 20 times since January. His call that went out to police early Monday morning turned out to be his last one.

It was around one a.m. when police responded to a call from Ned. It was their third response in two days, eight times this week alone. Police Chief Don Dixon says Ned had been calling about a peeping tom and a ladder at his 4th story window. Dixon says, "It appears that Mr. Ned had gotten to the point where there was a point of no return. At one point in time according to neighbors, he was actually carrying on a two sided conversation with himself about wanting to die and not wanting to die."

Ultimately five officers were called to the high rise. Dixon says Ned was armed with a knife, and police tried to subdue him with a chemical spray and twice with electric taser guns. Ned was shot three times as he allegedly charged police with the knife. Several people who knew Ned says he was not a violent man. Resident Mildred Deville says, "He was a praying fellow, out here all the time with his music. He said he was a preacher. But I'd never known him to be violent. It's a shame."

About 75-percent of the nearly 200 residents in the low income housing complex are elderly. Others have mental or physical disabilities. Scott Pias with the National Alliance for Mental Illness says in hindsight this situation was predictable. Pias says, "Police have no alternative. They can either place him in jail if there's jail space and that's rather expensive, take him to a facility for treatment, where it lasts 72 hours and they're back on the street, or do nothing." Dixon says, "What has basically happened is no fault of his. Basically our society has failed him. We do not have a place for him. We did not have the care for him."

Dixon says the officers involved are devastated. Five were involved. Three fired their guns. Dixon met with Mayor Randy Roach and members of NAMI. The mayor says he his committed to lobbying the state legislature to find funds to help people with mental illness.