George Coutts could think of no other way to thank the man who saved his son's life last July other than to give him a big hug.

Coutts' son, Officer Eric Coutts, was nearly killed during what was supposed to be a routine traffic stop on the North Side.

Had it not been for the courageous actions of Officer Erik Morales, who was on his first night of field training with Coutts, everyone admits, things could have turned out much differently.

Morales and Coutts were among approximately 50 people honored Wednesday morning during a Tucson Police Department awards ceremony. They, along with Officer Stephen Parker received the medal of valor.

Last July, Coutts and Morales were driving to their patrol area when they saw a car make a U-turn against a red light on North Oracle Road near West Miracle Mile.

After pulling the car over, Morales spoke with the driver while Coutts spoke with the passenger, who immediately was seen reaching under his seat.

Coutts questioned the passenger, who was becoming increasingly nervous, while Morales stepped away to complete the traffic citation.

Knowing that the passenger was acting suspiciously, Morales kept an eye on his partner until Coutts ordered the passenger out of the car.

When the young man got out of the passenger seat, he had a gun in his hand. He attacked Coutts, putting him in a headlock and placing the gun to his head.

The passenger said it was time for Coutts to die.

As soon as Coutts was able to break away, Morales shot the passenger. As the passenger was on the ground, he began to turn toward Coutts with the gun in hand, at which time both officers fired on him, killing the man.

"Officer Morales demonstrated courage beyond that of many," said TPD Assistant Chief Kathleen Robinson. "He had no experience and only his recent training to draw upon. He recognized that a dangerous situation was developing and instead of backing off, he intentionally moved to a position to support Officer Coutts."

Coutts was out of town. His father, George, accepted the award on his behalf.

Morales said after the ceremony that he did not need any recognition for his actions.

"I was just doing my job and I feel that we were very fortunate, God was on our side," he said.

In November 2004, Officer Stephen Parker, shot and killed one of Pima County's "Most Wanted" fugitives.

Parker was chasing Nishan Bernard, 22, on North Swan Road near East Speedway after the man ran away from police and began shooting at them.

While following Bernard in his patrol car, Parker was shot at several times. When Bernard's car crashed into a construction sign on Swan, he fled and continued to shoot at Parker.

Parker fatally shot Bernard as he was climbing a fence that led to a residential area.

Bernard was on the county's most-wanted list for two years in connection with a drive-by shooting and various drug and weapon charges.

It was Parker's second fatal shooting. In the earlier incident, Parker shot a burglary suspect who had pointed a gun at him in 2002.

● Chief of Police Citation of Excellence: Edward Boyen, John Cammarano, Kevin Mayhew, James McShea, Marco Borboa, Judith Altieri, Jeffrey McCarthy, Kathryn Anderson, Michelle Pickrom, Michael Scovil, Patrick Johnson, Nancy Mulleneaux, Steven Wheeler, Carol Dover

● Unit Medal: (Methamphetamine Property Crime Task Force): David Neri, Robert Garcia, John Patla, Kathryn Martinjak, John Dorer, Roger Nusbaum, David Huser, Steven Lake, Jennifer Whitfield, Irma Price, Roxanne Washington, Cynthia Butierez, Richard Wintory, Chris Ward

● Medal of Merit: Peter Buchanan, Robert McCusker, James Murray, Michael "Judd" Whitfield

● Medal of Distinguished Service: James Martin, Kathryn Anderson, Edmund Schwenn, Ardan Devine, George Sloane, Daniel Lewis, John Patla, Everardo "Reuben" Nuñez, Antigone Foust, Ronald Canterman, Stella Beausoleil, Adele Conner, Bernard Mayer, Harper Coleman, Gerald Teague, Shawn Thacker

● Medal of Valor: Stephen Parker, Eric Coutts, Erik Morales

Source: Tucson Police Department