A 31-YEAR-OLD Bronx man was shot dead by cops following a frenzied chase through the streets, police and witnesses said yesterday. Cops said the dead ex-con, Carleton (Spanky) Lockhart - a father of two young children who lived with his mom - fired at police first in University Heights in the Bronx around midnight. Some witnesses said Lockhart was unarmed when uniformed cops tackled him and fired three times, hitting him once in the abdomen and once in the shoulder. But a woman who identified herself as Lockhart's godmother said she watched the incident unfold and said Lockhart, who got out of prison last year, had a gun. "He never pointed it at a cop," insisted the woman, Grace, who asked that her last name not be used. NYPD officials said they had not found the gun Lockhart was allegedly carrying - but said three witnesses saw the gun. Police believe someone in a crowd that gathered after the shooting snagged the pistol. "We didn't recover a gun but we believe he had the gun," a police source said. Cops found four shell casings - three 9-mm. and one .

25-caliber - at the scene of the shooting on W. 179th St., and a .

Advertisement

25-caliber casing in a van nearby. NYPD officers typically carry 9-mm. Glocks, and police officials suggested the .

25-caliber shells were fired by Lockhart. According to witnesses and police, cops chased Lockhart after responding to the block to break up a dispute between him and another man. Witnesses said Lockhart had lost his cell phone about a week ago. He later figured out who had taken the phone and confronted the teen late Friday night, friends said. According to Grace and cops, Lockhart pistol-whipped the teen with his gun, then ran away with his cell phone and fired several random shots, including one that hit a nearby car. Lockhart, who was arrested in 1996 for a shooting at the same location, ran down W. 197th St. until he saw plainclothes officers in a car. He then ran in the other direction before being boxed in by uniformed officers. Police said Lockhart fired once at cops, who tackled and shot him. Grace said she saw her godson raised his hands, holding a coat in one hand and his phone in the other and was shot by police while he was on the ground. When cops questioned the teen who argued with Lockhart over the phone, he told them: "I can't believe he missed me.

Advertisement

" mbecker@nydailynews.

com