Quoted:

I suppose you'll all get pissed off if I suggest that the guy who got shot was simply fed up with being pulled over by the police for various bs infractions that the cops somehow manage to overlook if it was on a typical suburban soccer mom's SUV.



Certainly minorities commit most of the crimes, but the more I see of the real purpose for police forces, the more I know it has to do with keeping the underclass on edge. Then you get shootings like this and people think "WTF, he shot a cop over a broken taillight?"



Translation :"The Man" is to blame for my life, therfore, I'm justified in killing him?



I could go downstairs and get my copy of Street Survival , and quote you (somewhat outdated) stats on how many officers are killed each year as a result of intending to issue warnings for "mechanicals", but I'm sure you'd have an argument for that as well. I also think it's a very un-PC statement that you have made about minorities committing most of the crimes... it kind of flies in the face of the rest of the party line you're towing with the "keeping a N down" mantra...



I live in a ghetto economically challenged community. You'd think that guys who spend $12k on sound systems that rattle my windows from a block away could have the common courtesy to turn the shit down. Instead, they argue that "the Man" is "oppressing" him, because of his race - and the laws were written to "keep him down".



Never mind the fact that 65% of the town is black, and the mayor, and 80% of the city council is as well. Somehow, it's all the white Man's fault that homeboy get a ticket.



Sure, but you are not seeing the whole picture--the years of systematic intervention by the police in this guy's life.



So we assume for the case of this argument that he has a record - probably multiple felony convictions.



He probably had some crack or pot on him...



In addition to the illegal firearm, since he's a felon...



...and figured "well, I'm going to jail anyways, might as well try to kill this fucker" (the opject of his hostility and the perceived cause of all his problems).



Of course, the numerous felony convictions, the outstanding warrants, the other people in the car who were felons and known gang members AND the pot or crack are just more sign of the "tyranny of society", right?



So in a sense, shooting the officer was a rational response by someone tired of the constant intervention of the state in his life.



A rational response for someone who has conditioned themselves to live outside the bouds of "conventional" society, yes. The coyote snapped at the watchdog, and got his neck broken.



It gets old.



Yes, it does. But then again, I've probably been to a few more line-of-duty funerals than you have.



What else explains all these seemingly random incidents of violence where people go mad and just start shooting people? People going beserk never happened in the past (at least not like it does today). There has to be a reason other than random chance because I see too much of it lately.



BTW, people have been "going mad" over the past millenia - the differences today include this very medium... the internet, and a frenzy-whipping anti-gun media who jump on stories like these to feed their machines.



IIRC, there was a WWII vet who used an M1 to go on a "rampage" somewhere in the NE. Killed 6 or 8 people before either killing himself or being offed by PD.



Circa 1946 - 48 or so.



For the record: The guy who got killed was definitely in the wrong. I'm not advocating violence against police.



Well, you may not have "advocated" it, but you certainly tried to justify it over your post...



I am advocating fewer laws, especially those that are meant for revenue enhancement.



Would you be happier if we changed to a system where people were flogged, branded, or put to labor for their crimes? In the spiriti of a capitalist country, the creators of the laws decided to hit folks in the pocketbook, instead of on the backside.



Leave people alone and they tend not to act out violently. Hmm--maybe this would translate to the Iraq insurgency, perhaps?



America: The Intervention (for your own good) Society



Yeah... Lord (or Allah) knows the women in Iraq would be so much better if we "left everyone alone". So would the Kurds, and the other religious minorites in Iraq.





After all, the dead don't complain a whole lot, do they? And somehow, it's better if they're killed by their own countrymen without outside interference.







Ed for board code







Translation :"The Man" is to blame for my life, therfore, I'm justified in killing him?I could go downstairs and get my copy of, and quote you (somewhat outdated) stats on how many officers are killed each year as a result of intending to issue warnings for "mechanicals", but I'm sure you'd have an argument for that as well. I also think it's a very un-PC statement that you have made about minorities committing most of the crimes... it kind of flies in the face of the rest of the party line you're towing with the "keeping a N down" mantra...I live in aeconomically challenged community. You'd think that guys who spendon sound systems that rattle my windows from a block away could have the common courtesy to turn the shit down. Instead, they argue that "the Man" is "oppressing" him, because of his race - and the laws were written to "keep him down".Never mind the fact that 65% of the town is black, and the mayor, and 80% of the city council is as well. Somehow, it's all theMan's fault that homeboy get a ticket.So we assume for the case of this argument that he has a record - probably multiple felony convictions.In addition to thefirearm, since he's a felon...Of course, the numerous felony convictions, the outstanding warrants, the other people in the car who were felons and known gang members AND the pot or crack are just more sign of the "tyranny of society", right?A rational response for someone who has conditioned themselves to live outside the bouds of "conventional" society, yes. The coyote snapped at the watchdog, and got his neck broken.Yes, it does. But then again, I've probably been to a few more line-of-duty funerals than you have.BTW, people have been "going mad" over the past millenia - the differences today include this very medium... the internet, and a frenzy-whipping anti-gun media who jump on stories like these to feed their machines.IIRC, there was a WWII vet who used an M1 to go on a "rampage" somewhere in the NE. Killed 6 or 8 people before either killing himself or being offed by PD.Circa 1946 - 48 or so.Well, you may not have "advocated" it, but you certainly tried toit over your post...Would you be happier if we changed to a system where people were flogged, branded, or put to labor for their crimes? In the spiriti of a capitalist country, the creators of the laws decided to hit folks in the pocketbook, instead of on the backside.Yeah... Lord (or Allah) knows the women in Iraq would be so much better if we "left everyone alone". So would the Kurds, and the other religious minorites in Iraq.After all, the dead don't complain a whole lot, do they? And somehow, it's better if they're killed by their own countrymen without outside interference.Ed for board code