LAKE ELSINORE -- A man shot and killed by sheriff’s deputiesMonday was identified by authorities Tuesday. Jon Casey Smalley,36, of Lake Elsinore, was killed after pointing a shotgun atdeputies shortly after a man Smalley had taken hostage escaped tosafety.

Smalley was able to flee in a pickup from the home in the 28000block of Mountain Street, but crashed the vehicle in a ravine ashort distance away, Riverside County sheriff’s Sgt. Earl Quinatasaid.

After the crash, Smalley continued to refuse orders fromdeputies to put down the shotgun, instead pointing it at them. Sixdeputies fired at Smalley, hitting but apparently not killing him,Quinata said.

Advertisement

Smalley continued pointing the shotgun and refusing tosurrender, leading to another shot being fired by a deputy -- thisone killing Smalley.

Deputies had been called to the home near Lake Street shortlyafter 3 p.m. Monday regarding a domestic violence situation duringwhich Smalley was pointing the shotgun at people inside,authorities said.

Quinata said Tuesday that Smalley did not live at the home,which belonged to family members of the man. Quinata did not knowwhat the family relation was between Smalley and the residents ofthe home.

When deputies arrived Monday, Smalley fired the shotgun at themand then took a man hostage. Quinata also did not know therelationship between that man and Smalley.

The Sheriff’s Department released no further information aboutSmalley or the shooting Tuesday.

According to Riverside County Superior Court records, Smalleyhas no record in the county of committing violent crimes.

In April 2003, prosecutors charged Smalley with possessing andbeing under the influence of a controlled substance, as well as thesale or distribution of a controlled substance, court recordsstate.

Two months later, Smalley pleaded guilty to both counts and wasplaced on formal probation, which was set to expire in June 2006,according to court records.

Smalley was scheduled to return to Southwest Justice Center onThursday for a progress report on a substance abuse program he wasenrolled in as part of his probation.

He last appeared in court in September and was found to be incontinuing compliance with the program, records state.

The deputies involved in the shooting -- none of whom wereinjured -- have been placed on paid administrative leave inaccordance with Sheriff’s Department policy.

None of those who fired at Smalley have been identified.

Contact staff writer John Hall at (951) 676-4315, Ext. 2628, orjhall@californian.com.