BUENA PARK – The city’s $5 million settlement with the family of a man shot by a police officer is one of the largest in recent memory in Orange County and shows, according to experts, that Buena Park was afraid a jury would award higher damages.

George Wright, criminal justice chair at Santiago College, said it would have cost far less to defend the case, if city officials thought they had a chance.

“I’ve never heard of a settlement that large in an officer-involved shooting,” Wright said.

Buena Park officials declined comment. But Federico Sayre, attorney for the Herrera family, said he had developed evidence that contradicts the police version of the story.

According to court records, veteran gang officer Ron Furtado shot and killed Juan Herrera two days before Christmas in 2004, testifying later that he believed Herrera was leaning over as if to grab a weapon from under his car seat.

However, Herrera, 23, was sitting upright, according to testimony from a forensics expert hired by Sayre.

Moreover, expert witnesses were prepared to testify that Furtado made several “tactical blunders” in confronting the suspect, court records say.

Buena Park Police Chief Tom Monson, Deputy City Manager Jim Vanderpool and Sgt. Gary Worrall did not return several phone calls seeking comment.

In the city’s defense, Attorney Kent Henderson, who also represented the Herrera family, said he is impressed that officials settled.

“It’s a terrible thing for this little girl to have lost her father,” Henderson said. “But a city or police department could have gone into a state of denial about it. They didn’t and the city should be commended for that.”

Sayre said the city had no choice but to pay – and pay big.

“They lied and they realized that we had the experts to prove it,” Sayre said.

Herrera, and passenger Marcos Osoria, led officers on a vehicle pursuit Dec. 23, 2004, after the two were pulled over for a traffic violation. Herrera hit the gas when police approached his window, court records say.

The pursuit ended when Furtado’s partner, officer Steve Yakubovsky, used their patrol car to pin the fleeing Oldsmobile in an alley near the intersection of Grand Avenue and Jackson Street, according to court records.

While Yakubovsky gunned his engine to keep the suspects’ car trapped, Furtado jumped out and ran up to Herrera’s window, says a summary written by one of Sayre’s witnesses.

“The driver … he starts leaning forward, bending over and I can see his, uh, him bending over at the waist, like he’s going underneath the seat,” Furtado said in a deposition. “And I keep yelling at him, ‘Let me see your hands. Let me see your hands.’ I just knew he was going for a weapon and I fired.”

Marc Firestone, a scientific investigator and expert on bullet and projectile trajectory analysis, challenged Furtado’s testimony.

“Officer Furtado, in his deposition, testified that Herrera’s shoulders were down and they did not change position during the firing of all four shots. This is not consistent with the third shot, aimed at Herrera’s head, which went through the top of the driver’s door frame,” Firestone wrote in a report.

Furtado also failed to follow proper tactical procedures when approaching Herrera’s car, said another expert.

When a suspect is stopped after a pursuit, the officers are supposed to stand at a safe distance from the vehicle, request backup and attempt to calm the suspect before considering to open fire, said a report prepared by Roger Clark, a police procedure consultant.

Since the shooting Furtado was promoted to corporal and is now an investigator for the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office.

Contact the writer: 714-704-3795 or sdaniels@ocregister.com