Second of two parts



Before dawn on Christmas Day, 19-year-old Andrew Clancy was fatally shot by a Lowell police officer who had responded to a domestic disturbance at the Clancys’ home at 232 Methuen St.



Two days earlier, Andrew’s father, Bernard, had picked up his son from Trinity College in Hartford, Conn., for winter break and the holidays. All seemed fine for the overachieving student who was studying Russian and hoped to someday serve his community as a congressman.



So what went wrong in a period of 48 hours, during which Andrew visited his grandmother, enjoyed Christmas Eve dinner with his parents, opened gifts, and watched the movie A Christmas Carol with his dad?



The cause of Andrew’s uncontrollable rage in the final hours of Christmas Eve remains a mystery. His parents declined to be interviewed for this story.



What is known has been gleaned from police and Middlesex District Attorney reports: Andrew Clancy, a mild-mannered, intelligent teenager suddenly turned violent, causing his father to fear for his own life. Later, Andrew, with a hatchet in one hand and a knife in the other, charged at a police officer, leaving the officer no choice but to pull the trigger of his service revolver.



In the weeks that followed Andrew’s death, an investigation by the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office declared that Officer Mark LeBlanc, who responded to that fatal 911 call, was justified in shooting Andrew Clancy. An internal probe by the Lowell PoliceDepartment also exonerated LeBlanc.



Based on an extensive review of those reports, The Sun has compiled a narrative about the events leading up to the fatal shooting that ended Andrew’s life.



— q q



Andrew Clancy awakened at 2 p.m., on the last day of his life.



It was the second, lazy day of winter break, and he decided to visit his grandmother, Aurore Clancy, who lived a short drive away. He returned about 4:30 p.m., to his family’s two-story Methuen Street home, where his mother, Janice, was cooking dinner, and poured Beefeater Gin martinis for himself and his father to sip until supper.



After eating, the family opened Christmas presents. Around 8 p.m., Andrew sat in front of the television with Bernard and tuned in to Charles Dickens’ holiday classic, A Christmas Carol. Both were drinking gin martinis and champagne, while Janice napped before taking off for her night shift at Saints Memorial Medical Center’s intensive-care unit.



Janice woke around 9:30 p.m. Andrew was in a chatty mood, telling his mother about his favorite part of the movie while she prepared to leave.



Soon after she departed, however, Andrew’s behavior changed. Bernard would later tell state Trooper Robert Manning he realized that only 2 inches of gin were left in the bottle. When Bernard told Andrew he was drinking too much, Andrew reacted violently.



“Life just (isn’t) worth living,” Andrew said in a confrontational tone of voice.



Andrew started blaming his dad for his problems. Andrew had argued in this manner before, Bernard told investigators. Andrew had even talked about suicide, but as far as Bernard knew, it was only an idle threat.



This was different. Andrew was in such a rage that Bernard feared for his life. The disagreement evolved into blows, violent enough that blood trickled from both of Bernard’s ears.



Bernard left the house and drove around the Christian Hill neighborhood for a while, giving them both space. He returned home shortly before midnight to try again to calm Andrew. His next-door neighbor, Jamie Bedford, appeared at the back door.



Bedford had been at a Christmas party, and had come home less than a half-hour earlier. He went to bed. A friend came by to retrieve a forgotten item. She told Bedford’s wife that she heard yells for help coming from the house next door. Worried the Clancys had been robbed, Bedford threw on sweatpants and ran across the driveway.



Later, Bedford would tell investigators he didn’t know Andrew well. But he realized immediately the boy was not himself. Bedford sat Andrew down and told him to be nice to his father. Andrew complied and Bedford, convinced the worst was over, left.



Andrew was sitting in a chair and seemed calm. Bernard Clancy suggested to Andrew that he go upstairs and get ready for bed. Bernard walked his son to the second-floor room and left.



Moments later, Andrew called out loudly that he had cut a chunk of flesh from his leg.



The gash was deep and bleeding profusedly, Bernard would later tell Trooper Manning. Bernard told Andrew he must go to the hospital, or else, Bernard said, he would call the police. The comment enraged Andrew, who started chasing his father around the house. Panicked, Bernard fled to Bedford’s house.



Call 911, Bernard told Bedford’s wife, who answered the door.



She dialed the Lowell Police Department. Dispatcher Denise Pelletier answered.



“This line is recorded. What is your emergency?”



“Um, I think there is a domestic assault, uh, whatever, next door at 232 Methuen Street.”



The dispatcher clarifies the address and asks for more details.



“Yeah, his son is, I guess, his son is out of control.”



“OK, have the neighbor stay with you until he sees the police, OK?”



“OK, yep.”



Jamie Bedford and Bernard were already on their way back to 232 Methuen St., prompted by the sound of Andrew’s screams.



Moments later, dispatcher Mickey Lamarre gave out the Bedfords’ address, 224 Methuen St., via police radio. Officer Mark LeBlanc, three years on the force, was completing paperwork at the Centralville Precinct on Bridge Street. He quickly got into cruiser No. 2 and headed out.



Sgt. Joe Murray, patrolling on Chelmsford Street in cruiser No. 1, was dispatched as backup.



— q q



Inside the Clancy home, a bad situation was escalating.



Bedford was facing a wild-eyed teenager, with a hatchet in one hand and a 9-inch knife in the other. Andrew’s eyes were distant, dangerous.



“He was doing kung-fu moves and sharpening (the knife),” Bedford told investigators. “He looked at me with some weird eyes and he scared me. And I don’t get scared easy.”



“Andy, what are you doing?” Bedford asked the boy. “It’s Christmas Eve. Knock it off. Let’s clean (that leg) up.”



Around that time, Officer LeBlanc pulled up to Bedford’s house, expecting to find Bedford and Bernard Clancy waiting. They’re not here, said the woman who answered the door. She directed LeBlanc a few yards away to 232 Methuen St.



LeBlanc knocked on the front door first. He waited. Suddenly, the blinds covering the glass window parted, revealing a pair of peering eyes. The blinds closed quickly.



“Over here, back here,” a voice called from the rear of the house. LeBlanc followed the sound and met Bernard Clancy on the back porch.



My son is out of control and he sliced his own leg, the father said.



They walked inside. The glint of the curved blade in Andrew’s hand caught LeBlanc’s eye.



“What’s going on?”



The words were hardly out of the officer’s mouth before Andrew raised his fists, weapons clenched in hand, to his waist. LeBlanc sensed danger, and his own hand moved to where his .40-caliber firearm was positioned on his right hip.



“Put that down. Put that down,” LeBlanc repeatedly warned.



For a split second, LeBlanc was sure Andrew would throw one of the blades at him. He ducked instinctively.



“Within two steps, I realize he’s catching, he’s gonna get me,” LeBlanc would later tell State Police investigator Sgt. Ed Foster. “I just decided that I had to stop the threat that I was about to be killed.”



In the kitchen, a loud sound bellowed from Andrew’s mouth as he charged LeBlanc.



“AAAAAAAAAHHHHH!”



LeBlanc yelled back and swung his gun in the boy’s direction to ward off the attack. While trying to back out the door, LeBlanc collided with a wall and jarred to a stop. Andrew, a 6-foot-tall, 200-pound mass, was on top of LeBlanc.



They wrestled briefly. LeBlanc pulled the trigger.



The bullet hit Andrew in the chest, and he staggered backward. LeBlanc, still crouched against the wall, fired again and grazed Andrew’s forehead with a second bullet. The kitchen door finally opened, and LeBlanc spilled backward, falling onto the porch.



Sgt. Murray, the backup, arrived at the house to hear the gunshots echo.



LeBlanc lost sight of Andrew and scurried to his feet. Was he still attacking, the officer thought?



Andrew lay motionless in the doorway on his back, his head in the kitchen and his feet on the outside porch.



“Shots fired!” LeBlanc spoke into his radio, and told dispatch to send paramedics.



Murray raced over and saw Andrew, blood covering his blue sweatshirt and blue boxer shorts. He touched him and felt a pulse. He was still breathing.



“Step it up,” Murray ordered dispatch, sensing the urgency for paramedics.



When paramedics arrived moments later, Murray left Andrew’s side to check on LeBlanc. The officer had a laceration above his right eye, and Murray decided LeBlanc should be taken by ambulance to Saints Memorial Medical Center along with Andrew.



Murray relieved LeBlanc of his service revolver.



— q q



Walking into the emergency room at Saints Memorial, LeBlanc took off his jacket. A shell casing fell to the floor. He picked it up and put it in his pocket, and would later hand it to Detective Ray Vachon as evidence.



About 1 a.m., Detective Dave Annis pulled up to Saints Memorial carrying a police camera. He found LeBlanc sitting on a bed in an exam room, his right eyelid red and swelling. Annis snapped photos of LeBlanc’s injured skin, as well as his bloodstained jacket, pants and gun belt.



Finished, Annis left the exam room and found Dr. Peter Gorlin, who had been working on Andrew inside the hospital’s trauma unit.



Andrew Clancy was pronounced dead at 1:21 a.m., Gorlin told him.



It was now Christmas morning. Later that day, police interviewed Bernard Clancy and his neighbor, Jamie Bedford. Six days later, they interviewed LeBlanc, who described a scene that escalated dangerously within seconds, leaving him with no choice but to shoot.



On Wednesday, Jan. 5, the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office cleared LeBlanc of blame in Andrew’s death. One month later, the Lowell Police Department concluded its internal investigation with the same result and released it to the public.



Rebecca Piro’s e-mail address is rpiro@lowellsun.com.