No criminal conduct contributed to the Jan. 29 death of Juan Monzon at 507 W. Fonner Park Road, a Hall County District Court grand jury determined Thursday.

Monzon, 36, was also known as Manuel Perez and Juan Monzon-Alvarado. He lived in Grand Island.

A Grand Island police officer shot and killed Monzon in the basement at 507 W. Fonner Park Road while Monzon was straddling Gillermina Avila-Merida, 38, and attacking her with a knife. She lives in the home where the shooting occurred.

The shots that killed Monzon were "necessary and justified under the circumstances that the officer was confronted with at the time," according to the grand jury findings filed Thursday afternoon.

"I'm confident that the grand jury saw that the officer acted appropriately," Police Chief Kyle Hetrick said.

The police officer who shot and killed Monzon is Jose E. Rodriguez Jr., two sources have told The Independent.

"I won't confirm it. I think it does no good to anyone, to the victims, to the officers," Hetrick said. "The right to know is satisfied through the grand jury. I see no reason to cause grief for anybody else."

The department withheld the officer's name to protect him from unnecessary harassment, Hetrick said. "Our officer requested that his name not be released."

Susan Koenig, special prosecutor in the case, said Thursday she did not plan to release the officer's name.

Nebraska State Patrol Capt. Fred Ruiz, whose agency investigated the shooting, said Thursday night he would check with State Patrol counsel on Friday concerning release of any public records.

When asked how long Rodriguez has worked in the department and his age, Hetrick said the officer is 31 and has been with the department since 1995.

Rodriguez declined to confirm that he shot Monzon.

"I'm not at liberty to comment," Rodriguez said.

"We do believe that the officer involved most definitely saved a life," Hetrick said. "It's unfortunate he had to take a life to do it."

The 16-member grand jury convened Thursday morning. State law required the grand jury because of police involvement in Monzon's death.

After Koenig was appointed as special prosecutor, she appointed a team of three officers, trained to investigate homicides, from jurisdictions outside the area where the death occurred.

Events leading to the shooting unfolded after a 911 call placed from 507 W. Fonner Park Road at 1:19 p.m. was abandoned, Grand Island police Capt. Pete Kortum said on Jan. 29. A 911 worker called back and was disconnected. A small child answered the phone the next time the 911 worker called. A man then got on the phone and reported a problem at the house.

The first officer who arrived at the scene entered the basement and saw Monzon attacking Avila-Merida with the knife, Kortum said in January. Monzon was ordered to drop the knife but didn't, the captain said.

The officer fired four shots at Monzon. Three hit Monzon in the shoulder, body and head.

Avila-Merida was treated at St. Francis Medical Center for cuts to her head and hands.

Monzon was born in Rio Hondo, Guatemala, his Feb. 9 obituary in The Independent said. Avila-Merida is also a Guatemala native. They knew each other in California before they came to Nebraska. Monzon returned to Grand Island three months before his death and sought a more serious relationship with Avila-Merida, Kortum said.

Her daughter declined to comment Thursday afternoon.

The Independent submitted requests on Feb. 23 to Hetrick and Grand Island/Hall County Emergency Management Director Howard Maxon for public records related to the shooting.

Maxon responded on Feb. 24 that his agency did not have any public records related to the incident. He later said those items had been turned over to the State Patrol.

City Attorney Charlie Cuypers wrote a Feb. 25 response declining to release the records because they were investigation records.

Public records requests were submitted to Ruiz and Koenig on Feb. 25. Koenig responded on Feb. 28 that she would not release any of the information requested.

Ruiz responded to the request on Feb. 28. He indicated that a number of records requested were part of the case investigation file. He did permit The Independent to view a State Patrol incident report at the Troop C office.

State Patrol troopers were asked by police at 1:34 p.m. Jan. 29 to respond to the scene, the incident report says. Officers arrived at 1:51 p.m. and left at 10 p.m. Patrol officers dispatched were investigators John Frederick, Mike Riley and Vince Hernandez; Sgt. Mike Phinney; and Lt. Chris Kolb, the incident report says.

The Independent submitted a petition to the state attorney general's office on Wednesday requesting review of the record request denials. Hetrick said Wednesday that he did not want to identify the police officer who shot Monzon "unless the attorney general's opinion tells me otherwise."

The State Patrol was responsible for the initial investigation of Monzon's death.

"Our function was to handle our officer as a personnel matter," Hetrick said. "We did talk to the investigators to determine the appropriateness of our officer's actions."

Hetrick said the Police Department has dealt with a personnel situation that is not subject to public records laws.

Hetrick described the assistance the department offered to the officer.

"We've conducted a critical incident stress debriefing and put him on a mandatory administrative leave with pay for a two-week period and offered him as much time as he felt he needed to come back to work," Hetrick said. The officer returned to duty in the first part of March.

Hetrick was asked whether the officer who killed Monzon would receive an award.

"We're reviewing that," Hetrick said.

There have been only two shootings involving Grand Island police officers since 1990.

The last fatality involving a Grand Island police officer occurred on Oct. 3, 1997. One kilogram of cocaine and 1 pound of black tar heroin were purchased from a known drug dealer at an Alda home. After the undercover purchase occurred, Mario Velez, 49, brandished a gun as members of an arrest team prepared to enter the home and arrest Velez.

An undercover officer shot and killed Velez. The Police Officers Association of Nebraska named Grand Island police officer Tony Keiper its Officer of the Year on Nov. 10, 1998. Keiper also received awards from the FBI and a medal of valor from Hetrick. Keiper was honored for his efforts with the Tri-City Federal Drug Task Force in the drug purchases.