An autopsy Friday failed to find the exact cause of death for a 34-year-old West Side man who died after being taken into custody by Chicago police for allegedly trying to take over a Chicago Transit Authority bus.

James Britton, of the 1000 block of North Ridgeway Avenue, died Thursday evening at St. Anthony Hospital, shortly after his body was found in the back seat of a police car at the Marquette District police station.

Advertisement

The Cook County medical examiner's office did an autopsy Friday, but it said the results would not be available until further tests are complete.

Britton, an ironworker, allegedly became combative on his way home from work Thursday when a CTA driver tried to make a turn onto 16th Street from Western Avenue. Police said Britton tried to keep the bus from turning.

Advertisement

Police and CTA officials said Britton grabbed the driver's wrist and tried to take the wheel. The driver was able to slow the bus down and press a silent alarm, police said.

An off-duty CTA driver and another witness boarded the bus and eventually forced Britton off the bus as police arrived. Britton continued to behave aggressively and the officers tried to use pepper spray to subdue him, said police spokesman Pat Camden. But Britton ran off.

An officer gave chase, and with the help of a citizen, caught up with Britton and handcuffed him, Camden said.

Camden said Britton was placed in the back of a police car and taken to the police station. When they arrived, he said, Britton was limp. The officers performed CPR before an ambulance arrived, Camden said, but Britton was pronounced dead soon after arriving at the hospital.

A Harrison Area detective said the medical examiner's office did not find any injuries that would have caused Britton's death or any obvious health complications to explain how he died.

Britton's aunt, Ethel Cato, said Friday that she doubted Britton would be so combative.

"I just know that he did not die of natural causes," said Cato, who described Britton as a "mama's boy" who rarely got into trouble.

She said Britton had been working on a downtown high-rise Thursday, then visited some friends. He called home shortly before the incident, Cato said.

Advertisement

The family said that Britton was healthy. They have contacted a lawyer. Britton, who has two children, lived with his mother and had been helping to raise the children of his sister, who recently died, Cato said.