A distraught off-duty Chicago police officer told his parents he was going home to kill himself because his marriage was failing fewer than two hours before he allegedly stabbed his wife to death, his father said Thursday.

Rafael Balbontin, charged Wednesday with first-degree murder in the death of his wife, Arcelia, 29, met his parents about 9:15 p.m. Tuesday at a Mexican restaurant on Harlem Avenue, said his father, Juan.

Advertisement

"`We have been having problems with our relationship,'" he told his parents, the father said. "`It's worse, and I can't take it anymore. I'm tired.' ... He told my wife, `I'm going to kill myself.'"

He then got up, kissed his mother, said he loved her and started to leave. His mother, Juana, tried to stop him, his father said. His account of events leading up to the stabbing death of the mother of two in the Belmont Cragin neighborhood parallels that of Arcelia Balbontin's family.

Advertisement

Juan Balbontin knew that his son was short on sleep from working four jobs, but he didn't believe his son, 32, would harm himself. His wife, however, did.

"My wife started screaming and crying real hard," he said. "She said, `He's going to kill himself.' She told me, `He's liable to do something to her too."

The mother told her husband to call their daughter, Janet Medina, and have her warn Arcelia Balbontin, he said. Medina did, telling her to hide any guns in the home, then she drove there to try to dissuade her brother from doing any harm, he said.

Javier Guerrero, Arcelia Balbontin's brother, said Wednesday that Rafael Balbontin's family called his sister Tuesday night and told her to leave the home because Balbontin was dangerous. Arcelia Balbontin then took guns from a safe and hid them, Guerrero said.

When Medina arrived, she met her brother outside the home, but he told her not to get involved. He then told Medina he loved her and the rest of the family and went inside, the father said. She then called 911.

There were a series of 911 calls, the first at 10:35 p.m. from Arcelia Balbontin's sister, who lives in the basement, police spokesman Robert Cargie said. A squad car was at the home by 10:37 p.m., he said.

Police also have said Arcelia Balbontin called about the same time to say she feared her husband was about to commit suicide. Cargie declined to comment further.

Meanwhile, the father was trying to call Arcelia Balbontin, but couldn't get through, so he and his wife drove to their son's two-flat in the 2900 block of North Luna Avenue.

Advertisement

When they arrived, Juan Balbontin saw his son outside.

"He just said, `I did it.' Then they put the handcuffs on him."

His wife was stabbed in the head, chest and back with a folding knife, police said Wednesday. His mother-in-law, who tried to intervene, was treated at a local hospital for a slash wound to her arm, police said.

Guerrero said Rafael Balbontin's young son locked himself in a room with his infant brother after witnessing the incident.

Balbontin also was charged with aggravated battery. He was being held at Cook County Jail pending a Friday bond hearing.

Juan Balbontin said his son had three part-time security jobs on top of his full-time job as a patrol officer in the Austin District, where he started on the force three years ago, and slept three to five hours a day.

Advertisement

He noted the hefty mortgage payments on his son's home, which the couple bought for $352,000 in May 2003. According to public records, they made a down payment of 5 percent of the home's cost.

But the father said he didn't think money issues caused the strife in his son's marriage.

His son, with the City of Chicago, also is being sued for an October 2002 incident in which Rafael Balbontin fatally shot a 14-year-old boy who invaded his parents' home, shot the boy's 26-year-old accomplice and accidentally shot his father.

Juan Balbontin insisted a gun was being pointed at his son when he opened fire in that incident, contradicting civil attorney Donald Shapiro, who said Rafael Balbontin said he did not see a weapon "at any time" during an August deposition.

The Chicago Police Department said the shooting was justified.

The father said he plans to contribute $1,500 toward the funeral of Arcelia Balbontin, whose two young sons are being cared for by her family.

Advertisement

"I'm mad at my son," he said, adding that he tried everything he could to prevent the tragedy.