A Chicago police sergeant acted properly in a shootout that left two home-invasion suspects dead and a Morton Grove officer wounded during the execution of a search warrant at a North Side apartment, Chicago police said Saturday.

"The officer acted within department guidelines and state statutes with his use of deadly force," police spokesman Pat Camden said. Camden also said a .22-caliber handgun and a 9 mm handgun wielded by the suspects were recovered.

Advertisement

A spokesman for the Cook County medical examiner said the office had not yet identified the two men killed in the shootout in a second-floor apartment in the 2900 block of West Summerdale Avenue in the Lincoln Square neighborhood. On Friday, police said they were trying to determine the identities through fingerprints.

A Morton Grove detective, who was wearing a bulletproof vest when he was shot, was taken to Advocate Illinois Masonic Hospital in good condition with a severe chest bruise, and another detective, who suffered chest pains, also was taken to Illinois Masonic. The hospital would not give their conditions, and calls to a Morton Grove police commander handling the case were not returned.

Advertisement

The two north suburban officers were executing search and arrest warrants at the apartment about noon Friday as they investigated a Thursday night home invasion in the 7100 block of Golf Road in Morton Grove. They were assisted by a uniformed Chicago police sergeant.

The victim of the home invasion said she was hit on the head with a gun and blindfolded with duct tape by two men in the garage of her townhouse before her roommate's return apparently scared them off. Her roommate identified the car used in the attack and a suspect in a photographic lineup, she said.

Police on Friday morning went to the North Side and found the car they thought was used in the crime, Chicago police said. The victim said she was told they saw blood inside the car.

Morton Grove officers obtained a search warrant for the apartment and an arrest warrant for one of the suspects.

After knocking on the door and announcing the arrest warrant, police heard rustling inside the apartment, which made them fear for their safety, so they broke down the door, police said. The officer who was shot in the vest was trying to wrestle a gun away from a suspect who confronted police, according to a Morton Grove Police news release.

When the man raised his gun at officers, they shot him, the release stated. A second man hiding behind a door opened fire, hitting the officer in the vest. Police shot the second man, the release stated.

The first suspect died at the scene and the second died within hours at St. Francis Hospital in Evanston.