At 12:04 a.m. on January 22, Sarah Positano was on her cell phone, talking to an Ohio State Highway Patrol hostage negotiator. At her side was James Trimble, holding a 9-mm handgun to her head. The gun was fired. "I've been shot.

At 12:04 a.m. on January 22, Sarah Positano was on her cell phone, talking to an Ohio State Highway Patrol hostage negotiator.

At her side was James Trimble, holding a 9-mm handgun to her head.

The gun was fired.

"I've been shot. I've been shot," Positano can be heard screaming on a 911 tape described yesterday at Trimble's murder trial in Ravenna, Ohio. "You hear Sarah gasp," prosecutor Victor Vigluicci said. "You hear her last breaths. The call continues, but it is silent .... She lay on her back, her cell phone just near her left hand," Vigluicci said. "Between Sarah's legs they found [Trimble's] dog tags."

One hour earlier, Sarah, a 22-year-old Kent State University student from Sault Ste. Marie, had been watching television in an upstairs bedroom.

Trimble had broken into her house through the patio doors.

Trimble had a problem.

He used methamphetamine (crystal meth).

And he had a habit of mixing it with the tranquilizer Ativan, which, according to opening statements at his trial yesterday, threw him into bouts of "uncontrollable rage and violence." Trimble had taken a lot of crystal meth on January 22, stacked on top of two painkillers and alcohol.

A little after 8 p.m. the previous night, his 42-year-old girlfriend, Renee Bauer, and her 7-year-old son Dakota were leaving him, forever.

Trimble had responded by firing 19 rounds from an assault rifle at them.

Thirteen shots hit Renee in the back.

Six rounds passed through her body into the son she was trying to shield.

They both died.

Trimble fled the scene, exchanging fire with pursuing police, and ended up selecting Positano's duplex randomly as a place of refuge.

Positano had planned to go out with her boyfriend that night.

But he'd called and told her to stay in because of the winter weather.

She shared the house with roommates, but they weren't home that night. Shortly after taking her hostage, Trimble ordered the young Saultite to dial 911 on her cellular phone.

And he called the police on his own cell phone, too.

"There's no safety in this gun," he told them. "I've got it to her head. If I'm killed this gun will go off and she will be killed," Trimble said.

Sarah Positano died from a single shot fired by Trimble at 12:04 a.m.

Interestingly, she wasn't shot in the head, but in the neck.

That fact is key to Trimble's defense strategy.

His lawyers argue that the shot that killed Sarah Positano was fired accidentally.

Eight minutes earlier, at 11:56 p.m., Trimble had promised a hostage negotiator that he'd let Positano go.

Then he turned and saw a SWAT team member had entered the house with what his lawyer says was a "Delta order" to kill him at first opportunity.

Trimble reached for an assault rifle.

As he did so, his lawyer says, he dropped the gun he was holding to Sarah's head.

It went off.

Accidentally, he says.

"The SWAT team had not negotiated in good faith with Jim Trimble," his lawyer told the jury yesterday.

Trimble's military dog tags fell off when police entered the house at 8:30 a.m. the next morning, arrested him, and dragged him over Positano's body, he said.

"Metro SWAT botched the hostage situation," Lager said.

The trial resumes Monday.