THE REGION

Streets to Close for D.C. Protest

Motorists should prepare for intermittent street closures and daylong parking restrictions in parts of downtown tomorrow because of the annual March for Life anti-abortion demonstration, D.C. police said.

The 12th and 14th street exits from inbound Interstate 395 and the Southeast/Southwest Freeway, and Constitution Avenue from 17th Street NW to First Street NE, will be closed from about 1 to 4 p.m. as demonstrators march from the Ellipse to the U.S. Supreme Court. The streets will reopen to vehicular traffic after the marchers pass.

Parking will not be permitted between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. tomorrow in the 1700 block of C Street NW; Constitution Avenue from 15th Street NW to First Street NE; the 200 block of Maryland Avenue NE; and East Capitol Street between First and Second streets NE.

THE DISTRICT

Police Fatally Shoot Man in SE

A D.C. police sergeant shot to death a man armed with a gun early yesterday in a Southeast Washington apartment building, police said.

Authorities said they were called about 5:10 a.m. to investigate a report of an assault in the 2600 block of Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue. Sgt. Andre Wright went to the building's fourth-floor hallway, where a man with a gun turned toward him, police said. Wright shot the man several times, police said. The man, identified as Timothy Giddings, 25, was in the hallway after confronting another man in an argument, police said.

Police said they recovered a loaded handgun at the scene. Wright has been placed on administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.

Fatal Beating of Infant Probed

D.C. police are investigating the beating death of a 2-month-old boy, authorities said yesterday.

Police said Tavonte Mobley was found unconscious at 9:15 a.m. Tuesday in an apartment building in the 3900 block of Fourth Street SE. He was pronounced dead less than an hour later at Greater Southeast Community Hospital. No arrests have been made.

2 Men Killed in SE Shootings

Two men have died since Friday in separate shootings on the streets of Southeast, police said.

A man, 18, who had multiple gunshot wounds was found at 5:10 p.m. Friday in an intersection at Minnesota Avenue and T Street SE, police said.

In the other incident, a man, 48, with several gunshot wounds was found yesterday at 3:20 a.m. in a 1993 Pontiac in the 1600 block of U Street. The man was pronounced dead a short time later. Neither man's identity was released.

MARYLAND

Car Stolen From Officer's Home

Two men took a car belonging to the daughter of a D.C. police officer from the family's home yesterday in Prince George's County, county police said. The officer pursued, fired two shots and captured one suspect, they said.

The daughter spotted the men and alerted her father, who followed them in another car. The stolen car stopped a few miles away, at Village Green Drive and Sheriff Road in Landover. A confrontation occurred, during which the off-duty officer might have seen something threatening and fired, police said.

There was no indication whether the shots hit anyone. The driver of the daughter's car fled, but the passenger was seized by the officer and held for county police, a police spokeswoman said.

Police Kill Escaped Inmate

An inmate who escaped from custody in Howard County was shot to death Friday night by county police after he tried to run over officers with a vehicle, authorities said.

They said Jejuan Deon Griffin, 20, was found at a motel on Washington Boulevard in Elkridge. He escaped Dec. 31 from Howard County General Hospital while in custody on drug distribution charges, police said.

VIRGINIA

Teen Shot to Death Is Identified

Fairfax County police identified a youth killed Friday as Anthony Campos, 14, of Alexandria.

Police said that Campos and a friend, 15, were near an apartment building in the 5600 block of Bismach Drive and that another friend, 13, was in the building. Two people walked up, police said, and one shot the youths, who were taken to Inova Fairfax Hospital.

Anthony was pronounced dead at the hospital, police said; the other two had injuries that were not life-threatening. Police said the shootings appeared to be gang-related.

"I don't have to know someone to help them. I see the pain that they're suffering from in all the pictures and news coverage."

-- Moni Sallam, 13, who has raised at least $3,000 for tsunami relief efforts by selling awareness bracelets. -- Page C1

Compiled from reports by staff writer Karlyn Barker, Clarence Williams and Martin Weil and the Associated Press.