WESTMINSTER – A federal court judge today approved a $950,000 settlement offer by the city to the family of a 30-year-old hit-and-run suspect who was shot and later accidentally run over by an officer during a pursuit more than two years ago.

City Council members had unanimously approved the settlement Wednesday night during a special meeting.



Hoang Tan Bui of Westminster died in the incident, and Charles Shinn III, a 14-year department veteran, was fired after department officials concluded that Shinn had violated their policies and procedures during the Feb. 9, 2005, incident.

Michael Avila, an attorney representing Bui’s wife, who filed a $10 million federal civil rights lawsuit against the city and police department, said he is glad the family’s ordeal is finally over.

“The silver lining is at least now the family can have closure and put this very tragic incident behind them,” he said. “Hoang Tan Bui will be remembered as a loving father of two by his family and friends.”

However, Avila said another lawsuit against the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, alleging that the agency did not allow Bui’s family to mourn him at the incident site, is scheduled to go to trial in March. Bui’s family is accusing officials of violating their First Amendment rights.



The City Council scheduled the special meeting because Bui’s wife wanted the entire payment of the settlement by Dec. 24, City Attorney Dick Jones said. She had previously turned down a $750,000 settlement offer from the city.

The majority of the $950,000 settlement will be paid by the city’s insurance, although a small portion will come out of the general fund, Jones said.

The initial incident occurred when Shinn was trying to question Bui about a hit-and-run incident at Newland Street and Bolsa Avenue. When Bui tried to drive away, Shinn fired into the car, hitting Bui in the shoulder. Bui then drove about a mile, left his car and began running when Shinn clipped Bui at 12 mph with his patrol car. Bui suffered head injuries and died at the scene, pinned under the car and against a tree.



No criminal charges were filed against Shinn. Although he was fired, the department later allowed him to retire with the full benefits he was entitled to at the time.



Police Chief Andy Hall said the settlement “is best for (Bui’s family), the community and the police department.”



“This was a tragic judgment error,” he said. “A human life was lost. We’ve always been candid in our admission that this was a tragic mistake.”



Hall said this agreement and payout would also provide much-needed closure to Bui’s family and the city’s police officers. But, he said, none of the department’s investigations showed that racism played a part in this incident.



“We see that as unnecessary rhetoric,” Hall said.



In August, a federal judge ordered the Westminster Police Department to turn over all evidence, including internal documents and a handwritten diagram of the shooting scene by Shinn. The Police Department appealed that decision, but recently a federal appellate court upheld the lower court’s decision.



Hall said the Police Department initially could not find it, but later did find a copy of that diagram and turned it over to Avila.



Avila said the appellate court’s decision played a significant role in the settlement agreement.

Contact the writer: 714-445-6685 or dbharath@ocregister.com