The official cause of death for an Ohio woman who fell ill and died during a police investigation in February has been determined to be an overdose of methamphetamine.

Pottawattamie County Attorney Matt Wilber said the final autopsy report on Claudia Crippen, 50, of Akron, Ohio, indicated she had 10,989 nanograms of methamphetamine per liter of blood in her system. The therapeutic, or safe, range for methamphetamine in the human system is 10 to 100 nanograms per liter.

A nanogram is one-billionth of a gram. A gram is equivalent to 1/28 ounce. A liter is slightly larger than a quart.

"It is my determination that Ms. Crippen died as a result of her ingestion of a large amount of methamphetamine at the time of the traffic stop on Feb. 11, 2005," Wilber said. "This methamphetamine was contained in a baggie which ruptured shortly after being swallowed."

Crippen was the passenger in a rented Chrysler 300 that was stopped by Council Bluffs police on Feb. 11. The car was traveling east on Interstate 80 near the 7.2 mile marker and was reportedly traveling 70 mph in a 55 mph zone.

During the course of the stop, the driver, identified as Christopher Perdew, 29, of North Canton, Ohio, reportedly gave officers permission to search the vehicle. At some point, the officers found three separate packages in the trunk containing 1,038 grams of high grade methamphetamine known as crystal meth, reports stated.

Both Perdew and Crippen were taken to the Council Bluffs Police Department for further questioning. While there, Crippen suddenly and unexpectedly became ill. A rescue crew was called and she was transported to the hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival.

Reports stated that during the course of the initial autopsy performed to determine the cause of Crippen's death, a blue and green plastic baggie was found in her stomach.

The autopsy also showed Crippen had some broken ribs and sternum injuries, but those were consistent with injuries suffered during cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

Wilber said nothing discovered during the autopsy would suggest any wrongdoing on the part of law enforcement personnel involved.

"While her death was the result of her intentional act in swallowing the baggie of methamphetamine, my office has no information to conclude that the death of Ms. Crippen was intentional on her part," Wilber said. "Rather, she was apparently attempting to keep law enforcement from discovering a quantity of methamphetamine in her immediate possessions. Accordingly, my office concurs that Ms. Crippen died as a result of an accidental overdose of methamphetamine."

Perdew was arrested for possession of methamphetamine with intent to deliver. He is being held in Pottawattamie County Corrections.