Attorneys for the family of a teenager killed in an accident alleged to have been caused by an intoxicated off-duty Chicago police officer have added the Village of Orland Hills to a wrongful death lawsuit.

Mayor Kyle Hastings also was added to the suit, accused of showing a "willful and wanton" disregard for the community's safety by failing to close the Fire & Ice bar where the off-duty officer was allegedly drinking before the accident on Feb. 12.

Advertisement

Attorney Robert Fioretti, who represents the family of Mohammed Shuaibi, 17, cited at least 19 complaints filed about the bar in the months preceding the accident.

Fioretti said Hastings, as the village's liquor commissioner, chose to renew the business' liquor license in December 2004 despite the reports detailing fights, accidents and other rowdy behavior at the location.

Advertisement

"Somebody in town was not reading the police reports," said Fioretti at a news conference outside Orland Hills Village Hall on Tuesday. "He showed an utter disregard for the safety of the plaintiffs and the safety of members of the community by leaving that bar open."

Fioretti added that the number and nature of the complaints "were out of hand."

"I've represented liquor license holders before, and I've never seen anything like this," he said.

The owners of the bar and the police officer, Jason Casper, 24, are the original defendants in the suit.

Ahmad Shaban, 16, of Orland Park, also was killed when, according to police, Casper's car allegedly ran a red light at 159th Street and Harlem Avenue at more than 80 m.p.h. and ran into a car in which both youths were passengers.

Casper has been charged with multiple counts of reckless homicide and aggravated driving under the influence. He has pleaded not guilty and is free on $1 million bond, but has been stripped of his police powers.

Mark Sterk, an attorney for Orland Hills, said the village and Hastings are not liable for the youths' deaths under the state's tort immunity law.

"We all feel terrible for the families," Sterk said. "But neither the village nor the mayor are responsible for the actions of [an individual]."

Advertisement

He said many of the complaints against the bar were not out of the ordinary and were filed by its owners, who have been "good corporate citizens" since the early 1980s.

"You can't just step in and shut every bar where there are complaints," Sterk said. "Public officials have to exercise discretion in everything they do."

Fioretti said Shuaibi's family is seeking unspecified damages from the village.

"There's no money in this lawsuit," he said. "This is to serve as a reminder that drinking and driving is not appropriate in the community."