#694 Postby TexasStooge » Thu Feb 24, 2005 8:03 am

90 Percent Of Sex Offenders Know Their Victims



HOUSTON, Texas (KPRC NBC 2) - Registered sex offenders are not the only ones parents need to be concerned about. The real danger could be from someone you know, according to a Local 2 investigation Wednesday.



Anyone with a computer can easily find the names of registered sex offenders living near their home. But the men and women on that list make up only 5 percent of all sex offenders, according to the station's report. While it's a helpful tool for parents, it's not the best way to protect a child.



It's a common myth -- sex offenders lurk in the bushes at the playground or hang out at the schoolyard. But they are more likely to live next door or possibly in your own home.



"I hear people saying, 'stranger danger, stranger danger.' It's not about the strangers," therapist Dr. Barbara Levinson said.



Levinson treats child molesters and their victims.



"Sex offenders are members of your family. It is your husband. It is your boyfriend. It is the stepfather. It's the grandfather. It's the uncle," she said.



In fact, 90 percent of children who are molested know their victims, according to statistics.



So what are parents to do to protect their children?



"The best line of defense is to have an educated child," she said.



To do that, Levinson suggests that parents start with themselves.



"Be comfortable with the idea of sex yourself and be able to talk to your child. Take those teachable moments, as young as they are, to make them comfortable talking to you about sexual things," Levinson said.



That way, if something does happen, your child won't be afraid to tell you.



Also, teach your child to love and respect his or her own body. That includes saying no to touching that makes them uncomfortable, even if it's a peck on the cheek from Grandma.



"It's telling the child what's good touching and what does that mean, telling them about privacy, telling them they can say no to anybody," she said.



Be careful whom you leave your children with, even if they are members of your own family.



If they make you uncomfortable, chances are there is a good reason why.



"Be aware of what's going on around you and trust your instincts," Levinson said.



The bottom line -- a child molester can be anyone and the only way to protect your child is to educate him or her before it happens.



"It's a terrible thing when this happens in families and families don't know what to do. But if you don't take care of it now, it will repeat itself," she said.



Levinson said most sex offenders are victims of sex abuse themselves. It's a vicious cycle that can only be stopped by addressing the issue head-on and by having an open line of communication with your children.

0 likes