Houston Police Department > News Releases Incident at 9621 Radio March 8, 2005 -- A suspect who had shot three persons in separate crimes was fatally shot by a Houston police officer at 9621 Radio about 2:25 p.m. on Monday (Mar. 7). The suspect, J'Korderic Jermaine Jefferson (b/m, DOB 12-3-83), was pronounced dead at the scene. The victims he had wounded were Alfredo Morales, 33, Herve Pendleton, 47, and Thomas Blackwell, 47. Morales was shot in the right leg and treated and released from Ben Taub General Hospital. Pendleton suffered a gunshot wound to the ribs and left arm and drove himself to Bayshore Medical Center for treatment. Blackwell was wounded in the right ear and treated and released from Memorial Hermann Southeast Hospital. The officer, G.P. Countie of the Southeast Patrol Division, was not injured. He was sworn in as an HPD officer in May 1980. HPD Homicide Division Sergeants T. Hernandez and C. Mosqueda reported: Officer Countie was responding to a shooting call at 9988 Windmill Lakes. While enroute and traveling on Almeda Genoa near Radio, he spotted a male fitting the description of the shooting suspect. The officer then saw a citizen in a maroon pickup truck pointing in the suspect's direction. When Officer Countie caught up with the suspect, he saw him in a yard at 9621 Radio. There, the officer observed the suspect point a pistol at him and then run towards the rear of the residence. Officer Countie then saw the suspect run up to another citizen near a blue truck and take that citizen (Blackwell) hostage. When Officer Countie ordered the suspect to drop his weapon, the suspect refused and verbally threatened to shoot his hostage. The suspect held his gun to his hostage's head, placed the citizen back in the truck and

then fired a shot toward the citizen. At that time, Officer Countie fired his duty weapon one time, striking the suspect in the face. The civilian, Blackwell, received a grazing wound to the right ear. It was later learned this same suspect had burglarized an apartment on Windmill Lakes and shot a maintenance man (Morales) who tried to prevent the suspect's escape. The suspect then ran down Almeda Genoa where he attempted to steal a vehicle before shooting another citizen (Pendleton) at 9690 Almeda Genoa. The suspect then fled from that location and attempted to steal another vehicle on Clearwater near Almeda Genoa. JFC/RMM 3-8-05

Inc #035678805 For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.