Skip to comments.

Routine traffic stop ends in chase, fatal shooting

Posted on by SwinneySwitch

San Antonio Police officials are investigating the death of a man shot by two police officers early Tuesday morning after they were threatened with what they thought was a knife.

The incident happened around 3 a.m. on the Northeast Side when an officer attempted to pull over 22-year-old Paul J. Vara for minor traffic infractions on Blanco Road.

According to a police-issued statement, David Lohaus, a 10-year veteran of the force, pursued Vara onto Dorset Street, at which point Vara suddenly stopped the vehicle and began threatening his female passenger, his ex-girlfriend, with what appeared to be a knife.

Lohaus ordered Vara to drop the weapon, but he began to chase the officer, and a foot chase continued into the yard of 615 Barchester.

Lohaus was backed up by Officer Jason Mooney, who's been on the force for a year. While holding the weapon, Vara lunged towards the officers, making them fear for their lives, a police statement reported.

Both officers fired their service weapons and struck Vara several times. He was pronounced dead on the scene. The weapon turned out not to be a knife but a pair of needle-nosed pliers.

Vara's ex-girlfriend and two children, ages 3 and 4, were found inside the car. One of the children belonged to the couple, while the other wasn't related to Vara.

The woman told police Vara had snorted narcotics shortly before the traffic stop.

Vara was found to have outstanding warrants for evading arrest, assault, driving while license suspended and criminal trespass.

The police department's shooting team is handling the investigation and will submit their findings to the police chief and the Bexar County District Attorney's Office.

"Both officers have been placed on administrative duty pending the outcome of the investigation," said Sgt. Gabe Trevino of the San Antonio Police Department, adding that was standard procedure.



TOPICS:

Crime/Corruption

US: Texas

KEYWORDS:

banglist

donutwatch

leo

needlenosedpliers

Never take pliers to a gun fight!



To: SwinneySwitch

"Lohaus ordered Vara to drop the weapon, but he began to chase the officer, and a foot chase continued into the yard of 615 Barchester." What's wrong with this picture?



by 2 posted onby G.Mason ("If you are broken It is because you are brittle" ... K.Hepburn, The Lion In Winter)

To: G.Mason

Cops with guns RAN from a guy who they thought had a knife?



by 3 posted onby AirForceMom (The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.)

To: G.Mason

What's wrong with this picture? Sounds as if someone didn't shoot soon enough. If you have a pistol and don't want to be needle nosed to death you had better shoot or be faster than the needle noser.



To: AirForceMom

Thirty feet is the minimum safe distance from a subject with an edged instrument (based on reaction time to unholster, level, and shoot). If you're not ready to drop 'em you've got to get some distance in between first.



by 5 posted onby lightman (The Office of the Keys should be exercised as some ministry needs to be exorcised.)

To: AirForceMom

Cops with guns RAN from a guy who they thought had a knife? They gave him a chance to not get shot. He passed up the opportunity.



To: lightman

I would have thought their weapons would have already been in their hands, since they saw him threaten the woman. One of them anyway.



by 7 posted onby AirForceMom (The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.)

To: E. Pluribus Unum

I see, I didn't think of that.



by 8 posted onby AirForceMom (The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.)

To: FreePaul; AirForceMom

I give up. There are no reporters left. Should we reconsider firing Rather? ;)



by 9 posted onby G.Mason ("If you are broken It is because you are brittle" ... K.Hepburn, The Lion In Winter)

To: lightman

If the officer ordered the man to drop the "weapon" before unholstering and pointing his gun he should have just kept on running. Wouldn't be prudent to try to draw and shoot your pursurer while fleeing. The whole story sounds strange. Maybe the officers thought that it would sound better if the tried to get away instead of shooting. Maybe the writer got it wrong.



To: lightman

"Thirty feet is the minimum safe distance from a subject with an edged instrument (based on reaction time to unholster, level, and shoot). If you're not ready to drop 'em you've got to get some distance in between first."



"According to a police-issued statement, David Lohaus, a 10-year veteran of the force, pursued Vara onto Dorset Street, at which point Vara suddenly stopped the vehicle and began threatening his female passenger, his ex-girlfriend, with what appeared to be a knife." Ya think the cops just might have had their weapons drawn after observing this? Yeah ... okay ... you're dismissed.



by 11 posted onby G.Mason ("If you are broken It is because you are brittle" ... K.Hepburn, The Lion In Winter)

Comment #12 Removed by Moderator

To: Cactuspete

Cleaning the keyboard yet again.



by 13 posted onby AirForceMom (The early bird may get the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.)

To: SwinneySwitch

Some "people" just need killin'!



by 14 posted onby JimRed ("Hey, hey, Teddy K., how many girls did you drown today?")

To: Cactuspete

...maybe they were coming from the donut shop and their eyes were glazed over.... Great line. The glazed officers and powdered suspect made a deadly combination. Good thing he just had pliers instead of a firearm of some kind.



To: SwinneySwitch

Man, it must suck to be white trash.



I believe this incident can be chalked up to natural selection.



by 16 posted onby teenyelliott (Soylent green is made of liberals...)

To: SwinneySwitch

Man, it must suck to be white trash.



I believe this incident can be chalked up to natural selection.



by 17 posted onby teenyelliott (Soylent green is made of liberals...)

To: SwinneySwitch

These police shooting story threads today a very weird. On the surface,they sound clear curt but when you start considering some of the detail, they start to look goofy. Hyped up man lunges at LEO with needle nose pliers. LEO shoots him dead. Sounds cut and dried. Man chases LEO into yard and gets ventilated by two of them. HUH?



by 18 posted onby paul51 (11 September 2001 - Never forget)

To: SwinneySwitch

The weapon turned out not to be a knife but a pair of needle-nosed pliers.



Either way works for me.



by 19 posted onby festus (The constitution may be flawed but its a whole lot better than what we have now.)

To: Cactuspete

Just came back and read that. All I can muster is ... Bwahahahahahaha !!



by 20 posted onby G.Mason ("If you are broken It is because you are brittle" ... K.Hepburn, The Lion In Winter)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson