Two men were dead and one railroad police officer was wounded in a foiled kidnapping plot Sunday on the city's South Side that ended when an off-duty Chicago police officer shot and killed one of the kidnappers, police said.

On Sunday night, two women were charged at Wentworth Area headquarters, Sgt. Kevin Duffin said.

Advertisement

Tameka Newson, 18, of the 1200 block of South Lowe Avenue and Martha Jean, 19, of Winter Haven, Fla., currently staying in a residence in the 5800 block of South Normal Boulevard, were charged with two counts of murder, two counts of attempted murder and one count of armed robbery.

Police were still searching for a second male suspect, Duffin said.

Advertisement

The women were charged in connection with the deaths of Darius Williams, 22, of the 7700 block of South Kingston Avenue and Larry Johnson, 20, of the 8000 block of South State Street, authorities said. Police would not say which man was one of the alleged kidnappers.

Supervisory Special Agent Hugh McCormack, 33, of the Norfolk Southern Railway police force was in serious but stable condition in Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn after he was shot three times during a gunfight with one of the kidnappers, police spokesman Pat Camden said.

The kidnapping plot began when two men, including one of the deceased, believed they were invited to a party at a building in the 500 block of West 59th Street, about a block from the Norfolk Southern line, Camden said. But when the two men got inside, they were held at gunpoint and ordered to strip naked as the kidnappers taped their eyes and mouths shut and bound their arms, he said.

One of the men got free early Sunday morning and escaped, chased by one of the male kidnappers, Camden said. That is when the kidnapper fatally shot him, Camden said.

McCormack was on duty in his squad car when he witnessed the shooting, Camden said. He exited his car and confronted the gunman, starting the gunfight.

The off-duty Chicago officer arrived and shot the kidnapper, Camden said.

"[The officer] sees the gunfight in progress," Camden said. "Fortunately, the police are a better shot than [the offender] is."

Officers found the other man bound and gagged in the building, where he had been pistol-whipped, Camden said. He was treated and released from the hospital.

Advertisement

A police discussion Sunday found that the off-duty Englewood District officer acted within departmental guidelines when he shot the man, Camden said.