NATIONAL CITY – Maria Martinez will never forget that 9 p.m. knock at her door.

“It was the police, and they said they had killed my son,” she said. “They said he tried to shoot an officer and the officer shot him. I couldn’t believe what I was hearing.”

Still looking pale, Martinez had just returned home from a funeral parlor Thursday morning, where she had been arranging burial for her only son. Alexandro Rodriguez, 25, died a day earlier after a confrontation with police in the San Diego neighborhood of Gateway.

Advertisement

Martinez said she didn’t know the details of what led to the shooting. What she has heard, she said, she cannot believe – that Rodriguez was in a stolen car with a 2-year-old girl and a gun.

“My son didn’t have a gun,” she said. “And I don’t know anything about any baby.”

Rodriguez was single and lived in a small flat next to his mother’s residence on F Avenue. Other family members live in another house on the property.

“It just doesn’t sound like something Alex would do – try to kill a cop,” said Tony Martinez, Rodriguez’s uncle.

“He was no angel; he had his past troubles,” he said, referring to the fact that his nephew had spent time in prison. Tony Martinez said it was “a negative I don’t want to dwell on.”

Court records show Rodriguez was sentenced to prison when he was 18 for being an accessory to a felony. Details of the case were unavailable yesterday.

He was arrested twice for possession of methamphetamine in 2002 and pleaded guilty to both charges. He was sentenced to 16 months in prison in January 2003.

The system made it hard for Rodriguez to get back up, Tony Martinez said.

For example, he said, after Rodriguez was released from prison, he got a job at a Sears outlet.

“Sears gave him a gift certificate to buy work boots and clothes,” Martinez said. “He couldn’t believe it – that someone was being nice to him. We had to make him go to the store and use the certificate.”

Then Sears abruptly let him go, the uncle said. “Alex went down quickly from there.”

Police said events that led to his death started about 1:50 p.m. Wednesday when an officer ran a license-plate check on a 1991 maroon Honda Civic on Market Street.

The vehicle had been reported stolen three days earlier.

When the driver ran a red light and failed to stop for the officer, a chase followed on Interstate 805.

At the Home Avenue offramp, the Honda stalled in a traffic lane near Hixson Avenue, San Diego police homicide Lt. Mike Hurley said.

Rodriguez got out of the car but refused commands to get on the ground, Hurley said. The pursuing officer, identified yesterday as 20-year veteran Wayne Doeden, used his baton to strike Rodriguez’s legs, Hurley said.

During the struggle, Rodriguez lost a denim jacket he had wrapped around an arm, revealing a revolver in his right hand, which he pointed at Doeden, Hurley said.

A police helicopter crew flying overhead then reported that Doeden “suddenly disengaged from the fight and drew his handgun.”

Doeden fired his weapon, mortally wounding Rodriguez, who died at a hospital. A loaded firearm was recovered in the street, Hurley said.

The toddler was unhurt and later reunited with her mother, a former high school friend of Rodriquez’s.

The woman told police that Rodriguez had dropped her off to run an errand.

“Her child was asleep in the back seat at the time,” Hurley said. “She thought he was going to wait for her, and when she returned to where he had dropped her off, he was gone.”

Hurley said the investigation will be completed and turned over to the District Attorney’s Office for review within a month.

The initial police account is a blur for Rodriguez’s family.

“If this is the way it happened, so be it,” Tony Martinez said. “But I’d like to talk to the people who were there and saw it.” He urged witnesses to call him at (619) 818-2451.

The family has yet to talk to the mother of the 2-year-old. They do not know her. And they don’t believe Rodriguez knew he was driving a stolen car.

They said the Sweetwater High School graduate was showing some signs of turning his life around.

He told friends and relatives he had started reading the Bible in prison.

“He also was trying to help the younger kids,” his uncle said. “I often found him talking to them about staying out of trouble with police.”