BLOOMINGTON - Charges of first-degree murder have been dropped against a Markham man who struck a pedestrian during a police chase. But Tonu Hurey will spend between six and 30 years in prison for the 2005 death of Artice Kilgore.

On Monday Hurey, 33, pleaded guilty to charges of aggravated driving under the influence. He'll be sentenced in September, with no eligibility for parole, said Mark Messman, assistant state's attorney for McLean County and lead prosecutor on the case.

In May, Hurey was sentenced to 10 years in prison for selling cocaine to a police informant in 2001. A judge will decide in September whether the two sentences will be served separately or at the same time, said Messman.

Police tried to pull over a sport utility vehicle driven by Hurey in April 2005 because he was wanted on the drug charges. He led them on a chase through Bloomington that ended in a crash that killed pedestrian Artrice Kilgore.

Hurey's SUV collided with another motorist's car. Kilgore, who was homeless, was struck near the intersection of Oak and Mulberry streets, police have said.

Known as "the can man" for his habit of collecting of aluminum cans, the 65-year-old Kilgore died a few hours after the April 14 crash.

As part of the agreement, prosecutors dropped remaining charges against Hurey of first-degree murder, reckless homicide, and aggravated fleeing police.

"There was an admission of fault on his part, and a high penalty range," applicable to the DUI charge because of Hurey's lengthy criminal history, he said. Hurey has been caught dealing drugs four times since 1993.

So, prosecutors felt accepting this guilty plea was the best option to successfully win their case, Messman added. Without his criminal record, aggravated DUI would only have brought three to 14 years in jail.

The first-degree murder charge stemmed from prosecutors' belief there was a strong probability Hurey knew his driving would result in a death or injury of someone, he said.

The wording in that statute is only slightly different from a reckless homicide charge, which uses the language "likelihood" instead of "strong probability," said Messman.

"It was only later that we found out (Hurey) had cannabis and cocaine in his system," he said, noting that intoxication indicated a possibility Hurey didn't realize a "strong probability" his driving could case injury or death.

Prosecutors sought aggravated DUI, rather than reckless homicide, because it provided a stronger sentencing option. If convicted under reckless homicide, Hurey only would have faced three to 10 years in prison. He also would have been eligible to ask for probation.

Hurey admitted his responsibility during the May drug sentencing.

"I feel regret that a person lost their life for the stupidity I did," Hurey had said, but denied he sold 11 grams of cocaine to the police informant in 2001.

Reporter Brett Nauman contributed to this report.