Even when Chicago police collect key evidence in shootings, they sometimes alter or destroy it, the Tribune investigation discovered.

The newspaper found examples ranging from investigators misrepresenting witness statements to inaccurately reporting autopsy results to delaying for several hours Breathalyzer tests for officers suspected of being drunk.

Advertisement

Police have even destroyed entire cars--in one instance when a federal judge specifically ordered them not to.

Ben Romaine was driving a maroon Chevrolet Lumina in April 2005 when he allegedly ran a red light and led a police car on a brief chase on the Southwest Side, near Cermak and Pulaski Roads. Romaine eventually crashed into several parked cars, shifted into reverse, rammed a police car, and then tried driving away.

Advertisement

Officer Rick Caballero, a former expert marksman in the Marines, fired one shot, which pierced the driver's-side passenger window and struck Romaine in the back, killing him. Caballero later told investigators Romaine pointed a gun at him while driving off. Though the driver's window was rolled halfway up, Caballero said Romaine had used his left hand to reach out of the window and point the gun.

Immediately afterward, according to an initial police transcript, Caballero radioed the dispatcher, saying, "He just, he just uh, he just ran so I took a shot at him."

"You took a shot at him?" the dispatcher responded.

Half an hour after Caballero shot him, Romaine, 27, was pronounced dead. Several hours after that, the roundtable cleared the officer.

Because no witnesses came forward, the car became a crucial piece of evidence. The Romaine family's attorney, Daniel Alexander, wanted it preserved so he could re-create the shooting to see if it could have happened the way the officer described.

The attorney obtained an emergency court order to keep the car protected. But 17 days later, police destroyed it anyway.

City lawyers said that police accidentally destroyed the car because of "simple miscommunication" between the police and the city Law Department.

But a federal judge thought otherwise. He concluded that city lawyers and police officials violated his court order by being negligent and indifferent toward protecting the car and evasive about what happened to it once it was destroyed.

Advertisement

In a rare move, the judge held the city in contempt of court and sanctioned it $18,000--a relatively small amount, partly because there was no proof the car was intentionally destroyed. Without the car as evidence, the attorney decided to settle the case for far less than he had hoped: $99,000.

"Essentially," Alexander said, "the city came out way ahead by destroying the car."

Caballero declined to comment for this article. But records show he did not mention any gun to the dispatcher, though police later said they recovered one from Romaine's car.

In a deposition, he said he told the dispatcher not that Romaine "ran so I took a shot at him," but that Romaine "just rammed us. I took a shot at him."

An investigator for the Police Department's civilian oversight agency, the Office of Professional Standards, revised their version of this key piece of evidence.

The investigator changed the transcript so there was no suggestion that the civilian was fleeing when shot. "He just, he just uh, he just [...unintelligible...] so I took a shot at him," read the revised version.