By Ken Palmer

kpalmer@flintjournal.com 810.766.6313





Grand Blanc Twp. A lawyer for the family of a mother and daughter killed in an April car crash involving a township police officer said there is a strong civil case against the township, if not a criminal one.

The comments came after Genesee County Prosecutor David S. Leyton said today he doesnt have enough evidence to file criminal charges against the police officer.

Were not in a position to comment on the prosecutors decision yet, said Steven P. Iamarino, who represents the family of Michelle McPherson, 38, and daughter, Leah, 16. But the information we have indicates there could have been a contrary determination.

Iamarino said he will file a civil lawsuit in the incident. He said he has to wait for the investigation to be completed before filing.

Leyton announced today he wont file charges against Officer Darnell Jackson, whose speeding police car collided with Michelles McPhersons car on E. Hill Road, at the I-475 interchange, on April 22.

Leyton said McPherson was partly responsible for the accident, which occurred as she turned from the southbound freeway exit ramp onto E. Hill about 12:30 a.m. He declined to elaborate, other than to say, It has to do with her driving and her driving ability just prior to the crash.

Witnesses also disagreed about whether the lights and siren on Jacksons car were operating, he said. Considering all of the evidence, Leyton said he wouldnt be able to prove a case to a jury.

Jackson was responding to a call for backup regarding a truck suspected of carrying stolen merchandise, Leyton said. State police calculated the cruisers speed at 87 mph, Leyton said.

Investigators found a blank tape in the cruisers video camera, and its unclear why the crash was not captured on tape, Leyton said.

Iamarino said the camera was supposed to start running when the strobe and siren were activated. And there is evidence the camera was working earlier that night, he said.

All you have to do is review part of the (police) report, the attorney said. It said blank tape. That means he didnt have his (emergency lights) on.

Iamarino said he doesnt know how Michelle McPherson might have contributed to the crash.

The witnesses who were interviewed do not support the contention that she contributed to the crash, he said.

See complete story in Friday's Flint Journal