SPRING VALLEY, Ill. — More than a dozen squad cars from towns as far as 25 miles away raced through the rural town of Spring Valley Saturday, responding to pleas from an officer who had been savagely beaten by a man he had just taken into custody.

The officers arrived upon a chaotic scene, a trail of blood leading from the police station to the library next door, and an armed suspect--along with an unknown number of people--holed up in the station, which doubles as a community center for the town of 5,300 about two hours southwest of Chicago.

Advertisement

Investigators are calling the Spring Valley officer--identified by family and acquaintances as Thomas Quartucci, 51--a hero for hustling a police dispatcher out of the building despite his own injuries.

The man who allegedly beat Quartucci, Robert S. McFadin, 31, of nearby Granville, appeared to have shot himself to death near the holding cell where the attack occurred, said Bureau County coroner Janice Wamhoff.

Advertisement

Quartucci "was calm enough to radio for assistance, and all of his actions were in line with police training in how he extricated himself from a potentially deadly situation," said Chief Douglas Bernabei, who declined to verify the officer's name. "He survived, but not before making sure the dispatcher was out ahead of him."

Police said an officer walking a beat first spotted McFadin about 4 a.m. Saturday driving near the home of McFadin's estranged wife, who had an order of protection against him.

The officer made eye contact, and McFadin ran into a fence with his vehicle before driving away, authorities said. Police pulled McFadin over a short distance away.

McFadin was not in violation of the protection order. He posted bail on a charge of driving under the influence and was released.

Then about 11 a.m., Quartucci took a call about a domestic dispute at a fast-food restaurant that involved McFadin's wife, though McFadin was not at the scene when police arrived.

Police were able to contact McFadin by phone, and he turned himself in around noon.

After a short interview, Quartucci placed McFadin under arrest. But as McFadin was being transferred between cells, he allegedly wrestled Quartucci's handgun from the officer's holster and beat him repeatedly in the head.

Quartucci, with the dispatcher, was able to make it to safety at a library next door.

Advertisement

McFadin remained inside the station, and police worried there were people downstairs in a community center and sealed the block.

Two officers from the neighboring towns of LaSalle and Peru rushed into the building, found a woman who was planning a social function, and quickly got her out.

A short time later, sheriff's police from surrounding counties and a SWAT team entered the building and found McFadin dead from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound, officials said.

Quartucci remained at St. Margaret's Hospital in Spring Valley. A spokeswoman declined to update Quartucci's condition late Saturday.

Quartucci has been an officer for more than 20 years, his uncle Alfred Quartucci said. "He's a well-liked officer," he said. "I'm relieved that he's alive."

"He always wanted to be an officer," said Ron Thone, who runs a nearby restaurant.

Advertisement

----------

csheehan@tribune.com