OMAHA, Neb. (AP) -- The foster parents of a teenage runaway who died in Colorado are hoping to get his body returned for burial.

Hope Songster said a family member has contacted the wife of Gov. Dave Heineman in the hopes of getting the body of Trinidad Baca returned to Valley.

Baca, 17, also known as Trent, died in a head-on crash Wednesday after leading authorities on a high-speed chase in the central mountains of Colorado.

Because Baca was a ward of the state, Nebraska's responsibility for him ended when he died, said Songster, who had been his foster parent for two years, along with her husband Roger Songster.

She said she expected to know more from attorneys working on the case on Monday. Songster said the family was warned by a caseworker that they could be held liable for Baca's actions if they take possession of his body.

Songster said she's not sure what all transpired in the handful of days Baca was missing, along with his friend Rex Hill, 15. But she said the family could be held liable for hitting a vehicle head-on and causing injuries to that vehicle's driver.

"As foster parents, as much as we loved him, he was a state ward," Songster said. "We just need to know what we're opening ourselves up to."

Both teens were pulled over Wednesday after driving apparently stolen vehicles recklessly along Colorado 285 in Park County. Both cars stopped, but Baca allegedly sped off and the officer followed.

Baca crossed into the opposite lanes to avoid a state trooper and hit a vehicle head-on. He was ejected from the car and pronounced dead at the scene. Baca was not wearing a seat belt, officials said.

Hill, also a foster child, was found and arrested a day later.

Both boys were great kids, Songster said. Baca was artistic, athletic and had a caring way with his nine other foster siblings.

Songster said she's not sure what prompted Baca to take off, but thinks it might have been the prospect of a grounding, a minor infraction, she said. She said he did not come home Saturday night and he knew he had missed his curfew. He was reported missing on Sunday.