As dusk neared on Thursday, Terrance Andre Nowlin clapped his hands while some girls performed cheers on the playground. Someone gave him a jacket, because it was getting cold and all he was wearing was a T-shirt. And Tasha Sims let her 4-year-old son hang out on the staircase alongside him.

Less than an hour later, the 43-year-old man with a history of mental illness was shot dead by D.C. police after he assaulted a family member. Yesterday, as police investigated the shooting, neighbors tried to reconcile how a man who was known as a "gentle giant" could have turned so quickly and died so violently.

"He was a harmless, polite man -- a gentleman," said Barbara Myles, one of the neighbors who heard the gunshots fired by two D.C. police officers who tried to end the assault.

Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey said Nowlin "beat one woman and attacked the officers." The two, Johnnetta Woods, 26, and Kim Togans, 36, were placed on routine administrative leave until the investigation into the shooting is complete. "It looks like it was a justifiable shooting," Ramsey said.

The two officers, who were responding to a 911 call placed by a family member, arrived at the apartment in the 1300 block of Savannah Street SE about 8 p.m. Nowlin's mother told the officers that her son was inside beating another female relative, police said.

Woods, a three-year member of the department, and Togans, who joined the department four years ago, radioed for assistance and went inside. Police said they saw Nowlin straddling a woman and beating her with his fists. The two officers struck Nowlin with their metal batons, but he did not respond, police said.

Nowlin then advanced on the officers, threatened them and ignored their orders to stop, police said. He forced the officers from the apartment and onto an outdoor landing, where they dropped their batons and each fired one shot, police said. One bullet struck Nowlin in the chest, police said.

The officers then fell and tumbled down the stairs, police said. Nowlin was taken to George Washington University Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead at 8:50 p.m. The assaulted relative, who was not identified, was treated at a hospital and released, police said.

Several residents questioned the police account of the shooting and said that Nowlin did not appear to be menacing the two officers. Linda Roberson, who said she was across the courtyard and witnessed the encounter, said the officers struck Nowlin with batons and then began to go down the wrought-iron staircase leading from the family's front door. Roberson said it did not appear that the officers were being attacked.

"Terry looked like he was leaving, like he began to go out of the house," Roberson said. "He wasn't lunging or attacking."

She said the officers were in the middle of the staircase when they fired, then one fell into the other and they both fell to the bottom of the staircase. "Then Terry just slumped over. I think he died right there," Roberson said.

At 6-foot-3 and about 240 pounds, Nowlin cut an imposing figure. He spent years in and out of mental institutions and group homes and had a history of petty crimes, including fare skipping, theft and simple assault. He once worked as a janitor at the Department of Commerce building for seven months. Court records show a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia.

When Nowlin wasn't in a group home, he would show up at his family's apartment, neighbors said. He clapped and sang along with the children on their jungle gym. He bummed cigarettes from anyone passing by the brick courtyard.

He was there Thursday evening after leaving his latest residence, the Deanwood House of Care in the 4800 block of Jay Street NE, police said.

"He was always playing with the kids. I didn't see him harm nobody," Sims said.

Staff writer Henri Cauvin contributed to this report.