ABI investigating Marion Police shooting of Dallas County man Published 12:00 am Wednesday, May 4, 2005

BNI News Service

Alabama Bureau of Investigation officials are looking into a weekend shooting in which a Dallas County man was shot and killed by a Marion police officer.

At the Marion City Council meeting Monday evening, Marion Chief of Police Tony Bufford reported to the Council that an incident involving “one of our own” had resulted in the death of an unidentified Dallas County man Saturday night after a domestic disturbance call.

Email newsletter signup

The Times-Journal has confirmed the name of the deceased as Andre Aaron.

According to a press release distributed by Bufford at the meeting, “on Saturday, April 30, 2005, at approximately [the time is left blank] p.m., officers of the City of Marion Police Department, responding to a complaint involving shots fired at 1004 Washington St, Marion, engaged in an unfortunate altercation resulting in the death of a 25-year old African-American male from Dallas County.”

“The Alabama Bureau of Investigation (ABI) is investigating the case,” the release continues. “The names of the officer and victim are being withheld until further investigation warrants such disclosure.”

Because of the ABI investigation, Bufford will not reveal many more details about the incident.

ABI spokeswoman Doris Teague confirmed the investigation and said it is ongoing.

She also said that the release of information is left to the local law enforcement agency and could not provide further details.

She added that once the investigation is finished, the information will be turned over to District Attorney Michael Jackson who will decide whether or not charges will be in order.

Bufford did tell the Council that officers had approached the scene after responding to a “domestic violence” call, and that they had been informed upon arrival that shots had been fired.

When arriving on the scene, Bufford said, the officers “witnessed two black males involved in an altercation” outside the residence at 1004 Washington St. Bufford indicated that the officers’ arrival provoked one of the men to run into the house, and the individual was pursued by one of the officers. Once the officer had entered the house, shots were fired, and the Dallas County man was later attended to and pronounced dead.

During the relating of the case’s narrative, Bufford was cautioned not to release any more details by Marion’s City Attorney.

The police officer involved may be able to return to his post in the future, but is currently off patrol for an indefinite period of time.

“The officer has been placed on administrative leave with pay until the outcome of this matter,” reads the press release.

According to the release, all evidence available in the case has been turned over to the ABI for their investigation of the incident.

“The ABI has all reports, files, and evidence in its custody,” reads the release. “ABI has custody of the weapons involved. Forensic Sciences has custody of the body.”

“No other comment is available as the matter is under investigation,” it concludes.

Repeated attempts to reach Perry County Coroner George Pullum were unsuccessful.