Posted: 5/9/2005 11:25:36 PM EDT

Texas Deputy, Parolee Accused of Shooting Him, Both in Critical Condition



Courtesy of KVUE



The paroled robber accused of shooting a Llano County sheriff's deputy during a late-night traffic stop in Kingsland is himself in grave condition after apparently shooting himself in the head.

The suspect Eric Richard Wolfe was taken via StarFlight helicopter to Brackenridge Hospital. Also in the hospital was the man Wolfe is accused of shooting, Llano County Deputy Andy Taylor. He, too, was in grave condition.



Wolfe, who served time in Pennsylvania for robbery, moved to Texas as part of a program that allows for out-of-state parolees to live here if they abide by terms of their parole. On April 19, Texas parole officials told their counterparts in Pennsylvania that "Wolfe was evading supervision," according to Mike Viesca of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.



Viesca said that Pennsylvania officials had not responded to the report about Wolfe from Texas.



Taylor, 28, was shot once in the head around 11:15 p.m. during a traffic stop in Kingsland, according to the Llano County Sheriff's Department.



Details of the traffic stop and shooting were not made public. The deputy was able to call in details of the vehicle, a 2001 Chevrolet pickup, before he was shot. The truck was later found abandoned, although it wasn't certain where it was found.



Warren Hassinger, a spokesman for Austin-Travis Emergency Medical Services, said that StarFlight was dispatched to Llano County at 11:36 p.m. Sunday. The emergency helicopter picked up the officer and flew back to Brackenridge Hospital. Hassinger said that the officer's condition was described as "very critical."



A woman who lives near the shooting scene and who said she was a friend of the deputy said residents were evacuated after the shooting as law officers searched for the deputy's assailant. They were allowed to return to their homes later.



Police statewide were alerted to watch for Wolfe, 30.



Law officers near Lake Buchanan found him off of County Road 3014 between Bluffton and Tow around 11 a.m. Monday. Details of his capture were not certain, but he apparently shot himself in the head.



StarFlight was again dispatched and flew him to Brackenridge Hospital. Officials said he was in "very grave" condition.



Wolfe was convicted of robbery in Erie County, Pa., on Oct. 6, 1999, according to Sheila Moore, deputy press secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections. He was paroled on July 21, 2003. He was living in Kingsland under an agreement that allows out-of-state parolees to live in Texas.



According to Viesca, there are:



-- 9,681 Texas probationers supervised out-of-state;



-- 3,963 out-of-state probationers supervised in Texas;



-- 3,481 Texas parolees supervised out of state;



-- 1,832 out-of-state parolees supervised in Texas.



