From the Cedar Hill newspaper today . . .Police shoot fugitive at Wal-MartSuspect, wanted out of Ellis County,had pulled out gun, police saidBy LOYD BRUMFIELDNews EditorAn unusual sequence of events left a wanted Ellis County man dead after a brief confrontation with authorities May 11 at the Cedar Hill Wal-Mart on Uptown Boulevard.Jeffrey Spradling, 44, wanted on burglary and theft charges, died at a hospital after he was shot twice by a Cedar Hill police officer while pulling out a gun, Cedar Hill police Lt. Garland Wolf said.After the incident, which happened at about 1:30 p.m., Cedar Hill police turned the investigation over to the Dallas County Sheriff’s Office.“Our investigation is into whether the shooting was justified or not,” Dallas County Sheriff’s Sgt. Don Peritz said. “We’ve got crime scene investigators involved, and they’ve already uncovered several new pieces of evidence, including that Ellis County believes he was operating a stolen car.”Once officers were tipped that Spradling was going to be at the store — apparently by his girlfriend — Ellis County sheriff’s deputies guarded one entrance while Cedar Hill officers guarded the other, Wolf said.When the Ellis County deputies approached him outside the store to make an arrest, the suspect fled inside and was chased.He ran to the other side of the store, where he was met by Cedar Hill officers Lt. Steve Lafferty and Sgt. Colin Chenault, Wolf said.The officers then identified themselves, and the suspect began to move backward. While he did that, Wolf said, he reached underneath his shirt and pulled out a semiautomatic pistol.“At that point, out of concern for the safety of the customers, Sgt. Chenault fired two shots into him,” Wolf said.Wolf acted as Cedar Hill’s public information officer because Lafferty, the department’s usual spokesman, is directly involved in the case.It was unclear exactly where in the store the shooting occurred, although Wolf said police questioned several witnesses.Law enforcement personnel uncovered about 30 stolen credit cards and an undetermined number of drivers’ licenses and identification cards from the scene, Wolf said.Spradling apparently arrived at Wal-Mart driving a gold Oldsmobile Alero reported stolen out of the East Texas town of Atlanta.Peritz said the car was carjacked at some point, but the owner was released unhurt.According to Wolf, Ellis County sheriff’s personnel were tipped off that the suspect’s girlfriend, 40-year-old Milynda Albert — wanted on child support-related charges — was going to be at Wal-Mart.Ellis County then alerted Cedar Hill police, and Albert was arrested peacefully. In the process of making the arrest, officers learned Spradling was on his way to the store, Wolf said.Spradling was wanted on two outstanding warrants of burglary and theft of over $20,000, Wolf said.After the incident, Cedar Hill police called in Dallas County sheriff’s personnel.“We were called in by Cedar Hill to help, and that’s not unusual when there are multiple agencies involved,” Peritz said.Cedar Hill is also conducting its own investigation, Wolf said.Chenault, a veteran police officer, is on administrative leave pending the outcomes of the investigations.Cedar Hill police detectives confiscated store videotapes and turned them over to Dallas County, Peritz said.It was unclear if the shooting was captured on tape.When he arrived, Spradling parked in a remote spot and away from regular store traffic, Peritz said.“Officers have no idea why he was here,” Peritz said. “But if I was driving a stolen car, I’d park far away, too.”Wal-Mart managers said they were told not to comment and referred all questions to corporate headquarters in Bentonville, Ark.