Skip to comments.

FBI probes border shooting;Agent who killed teen in pickup feared for his life

Arizona Daily (Red) Star ^ | 21 MAY 2005 | Michael Marizco

Posted on by axes_of_weezles

FBI investigators say that a Border Patrol agent who shot and killed a 16-year-old Mexican boy had feared for his life.

A separate Office of the Inspector General investigation into the May 11 shooting of the illegal entrant is still under way.

The incident happened about 4:30 p.m. on the Tohono O'odham Indian Nation near Ajo when a white Dodge pickup truck failed to stop for a Border Patrol agent, officials said.

Officials with the FBI and the Border Patrol have declined to answer questions about the circumstances that led to the shooting: whether the agent's vehicle was struck by the truck before or after the agent fired, and how the agent was able to get ahead of the pickup truck and shoot into the cab. They say the case is still under investigation.

The driver, Juan de Jesus Rivera, 16, from Sonoyta, Sonora, was fatally wounded. He died at University Medical Center three days later, said his aunt, Gloria Mitchel. She and the boy's father viewed the body at a Tucson funeral home Friday before joining a caravan to escort him home to Sonoyta.

"It's sad that these things happen," the black-clad woman said quietly as she walked out of the funeral home to the truck that carried her nephew's coffin.

The family received very limited information about the shooting, she said.

Charles Griffin of the Border Patrol's Tucson Sector said the agent was standing outside his vehicle "when the driver of an illegal alien load attempted to assault him with his vehicle. The agent feared for his life, discharged his weapon and fatally wounded the driver."

The agent, whom he did not identify, is back on duty. Six people in the truck were arrested and questioned by FBI agents, who investigated the case as an assault on a federal officer, he said.

FBI spokeswoman Deborah McCarley said some people successfully fled the truck after the shooting.

McCarley said the agent "fired at the vehicle coming toward him," but declined to elaborate how the agent was able to get ahead of the Dodge truck or how many agents were involved in the pursuit.

The Mexican consul in Tucson, Juan Calderón Jaimes, did not return several telephone calls seeking comment about the shooting.

In Arizona, the FBI has investigated nearly every shooting between Border Patrol agents and illegal entrants as an assault on a federal officer.

In many instances, agents were rammed, shot at, and grappled with in what's become an increasingly dangerous job.

Last year, for example, an investigation of an assault on a federal officer was opened after an illegal border crosser grappled with an agent, causing the agent's gun to go off and wounding both men. In a 2003 case, Alejandro Soto Santos was sentenced to five years for trying to run down an agent near Rio Rico the year prior.



TOPICS:

Culture/Society

Foreign Affairs

Government

US: Arizona

War on Terror

KEYWORDS:

aliens

borderpatrol

bp

dhs

fbi

humansmuggling

illegalaliens

leo

shooting

Oh yeah, no problems on the Tucson or Naco sectors of the border, right Kolbe and Mccain? Vote Graf Website http://votegraf.com



To: axes_of_weezles

Make the illegal invasion of America a felony



by 2 posted onby joesnuffy (The generation that survived the depression and won WW2 proved poverty does not cause crime)

To: KylaStarr; Cindy; StillProud2BeFree; nw_arizona_granny; Velveeta; Dolphy; appalachian_dweller; ...

ping



To: axes_of_weezles

Suicide by Border Patrol. Thank you Catholic Bishops, and perhaps Mayors of Los Angeles.



To: Calpernia

I got stopped by the US border patrol, on I10, in the middle of Texas, in my new car, on the way home to VA. Had to show them my US passport. That was....odd. Not sure how I feel about it. We now require an internal passport? On the other hand...



by 5 posted onby patton ("Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart, and write.")

To: axes_of_weezles

Charles Griffin of the Border Patrol's Tucson Sector said the agent was standing outside his vehicle "when the driver of an illegal alien load attempted to assault him with his vehicle. The agent feared for his life, discharged his weapon and fatally wounded the driver." Perhaps better stated "attempted to batter him"? Which was an "assault." So it looks like he zooms well ahead of this guy, stops, gets out, waves guy to stop, guy tries to run Griffin down, so Griffin shoots.



by 6 posted onby HiTech RedNeck (No wonder the Southern Baptist Church threw Greer out: Only one god per church! [Ann Coulter])

To: axes_of_weezles

Here's a thought: If you don't come into this country illegally, you'll be in absolutely no danger of being shot by the Border Patrol. If you don't come into the US at all, you won't be in danger of being shot by any American!



by 7 posted onby Capriole (I don't have any problems that couldn't be solved by more chocolate or more ammunition)

To: Calpernia

Bump



by 8 posted onby nw_arizona_granny (My prayer of thanks is for all the Freepers who make my days so interesting,educational and loving.)

To: axes_of_weezles

Got that Right. Graf Stickers are on my car and have already told the local REPUB Party that I want Graf signs for my yard.



To: axes_of_weezles

If the agent knew the info posted at



http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1407913/posts



The Mexican is "Bought and paid for". That is--it is a righteous shooting.



by 10 posted onby Ramonan (Honor does not go out of style.)

To: patton

I take it you have not flown in the CONUS since 9/11.

DHS is the umbrella agency for TSA and the BP.

There have been stops on or near I-10 for the last 30 years; mostly at the AG/Truckstop inspection points on State boundaries. There are stops between I-10 and I-25 in NM.

They stop everyone, like they should. More of a PITA than anything else.







To: axes_of_weezles

LOLOL. I...was transferred into the pentagon, righ after 9-11, as a replacement. I currently hold frequent-flier-cards with US Airways, United,American, and I forget who else. The platinum kind. From miles flown. I took four flights this week - hey, it was a slow week. Last month, I was in NM, and I bought a car. Actually, a 2005 Mustang GT convertable. Then I got stopped and checked for my internal passport, on a friggin' highway.



by 12 posted onby patton ("Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart, and write.")

To: patton

You get stopped once in a 3000 mile journey and complain about having to show ID, and your military; work in DC. Dont you have a CAC card/Military ID/Drivers' License? I guess you dont mind the proctological exam every time you fly, with pinheads rummaging through your luggage, releiving you of forgotten jackknives, nail clippers and lighters? Dont you have to show ID to get in the gate, through the maze of the Pentagon, Use your ID/CAC card to login to the network? Still complaining about a routine stop on an Interstate? I hope you never get stopped for speeding and complain about having to show your ID/License to the cops. Drive safe with the Mustang GT. Hope it's not Red.



To: axes_of_weezles





by 14 posted onby patton ("Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart, and write.")

To: patton

I like the looks of em. They look kinda like the 68-70 Mustangs,better than the 02-03 series. You got a better deal in NM versus the east coast? Car prices in the SW are rather high compared to the east coast, and run 3-5k more.



To: axes_of_weezles

You get stopped once in a 3000 mile journey and complain about having to show ID, and your military; work in DC. Dont you have a CAC card/Military ID/Drivers' License? 2000 mile Journey. Yes, I have a CAC. I guess you dont mind the proctological exam every time you fly, with pinheads rummaging through your luggage, releiving you of forgotten jackknives, nail clippers and lighters? Actually, you would not believe how much I mind it. I fact, I once protested - "you are searching the guys with CNWDI, while some damn illegal is loading the beverage cart on the plane." This resulted in my spending the night in jail. Six or eight months later, the illegal was fired. Dont you have to show ID to get in the gate, through the maze of the Pentagon, Use your ID/CAC card to login to the network? Yep. Still complaining about a routine stop on an Interstate? Yep. I give up some of my rights, to serve my country. Like joining the army - you surrender some rights. When I am driving x-country, in my new car, I have surrendered nothing. I hope you never get stopped for speeding and complain about having to show your ID/License to the cops. Drive safe with the Mustang GT. Hope it's not Red. ibid.



by 16 posted onby patton ("Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart, and write.")

To: axes_of_weezles

In Va, they add a 10k "market adjustment." I got it in NM for sticker.



by 17 posted onby patton ("Fool," said my Muse to me, "look in thy heart, and write.")

Boo-Hoo......Okay, I'm done now, next



by 18 posted onby commonasdirt (Reading DU so you don't hafta)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson