Archived Story

Thursday, May 19, 2005

Tasered suspect dies

By LEROY STANDISH/Staff Writer

APPLE VALLEY -- An Apple Valley man died after he was Tasered at least twice by sheriff's deputies, once while in custody in the West Valley Detention Center in Rancho Cucamonga.

Leroy Pierson, 55, was pronounced dead at Kaiser Hospital in Fontana at 5:45 p.m. Tuesday. He lost consciousness after he was Tasered inside his cell "after he continued to actively resist," according to a prepared statement from the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department.

Jail medical staff administered aid and paramedics were called, the Sheriff's Department said. He died while on life support at Kaiser.

The cause of death is pending autopsy by an independent agency, the Sheriff's Department said.

Pierson was arrested near Bear Valley and Navajo roads about 5 p.m. Monday for being under the influence and two outstanding warrants, according to the Sheriff's Department. Officials did not say what Pierson was wanted for and would not elaborate on details of Pierson's death, which is being investigated by the sheriff's Homicide Detail.

But one sheriff's deputy who spoke on condition of anonymity said the model X26 Taser used on Pierson was part of a pilot program started at the jail last June.

Pierson's mother, 75-year-old Dorothy Pierson, believes deputies abused her son, who was not a large man, she said.

"They Tasered him twice. He wasn't no big guy. He only weighed about 150 pounds, and was only 5 feet 8inches tall," Dorothy Pierson said. "He was Tasered twice. No wonder his heart stopped."

Detective Dennis Florence of the Sheriff's Department's Homicide Detail contacted her to tell her of the investigation, she said.

Cindy Beavers, a spokeswoman for the Sheriff's Department, said Wednesday that she did not know if any deputies had been suspended during the investigation.

It's unclear how long Pierson had been in sheriff's custody. Pierson had fought with deputies right from the moment they arrested him after someone reported a man walking along the street swinging a belt and acting strangely, according to a Sheriff's Department report.

Three deputies placed Pierson in a patrol car and drove him to the West Valley Detention Center, where he refused to get out of the car and became combative, according to the Sheriff's Department. So deputies Tasered him.

Once they moved Pierson to the holding cell he fought with deputies and they Tasered him again. Pierson then lost consciousness, according to the Sheriff's Department.

Beavers refused to say how many deputies were present when Pierson was removed from the car because the case is under investigation. She also would not describe the cell where Pierson lost consciousness, or how many deputies or inmates were there.

The Taser used was pressed directly against Pierson and fired, according to the anonymous source.

The X26 Taser emits 50,000 volts, according to the manufacturer, Taser International. With one pull of the trigger it delivers a 10 second energy burst. Two more pulls of the trigger and the burst is increased up to 30 seconds. It is not clear how long Pierson had been shocked.

Beavers said the department does "have a temporary operating procedure in place" for the use of Tasers, but said she could not discuss that policy over the phone.

Pierson is not the first person to die after being Tasered.

Seven states restrict the use of the Taser. Nevada lawmakers took up a bill restricting the use of Tasers in March.

There were 71 reported deaths between 1999 and 2004 caused by Taser use by law enforcement, Elizabeth Schroeder, associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, said.

"Taser use is a welcome alternative to a gun, but there are effects of a Taser's use, particularly on persons with certain medical conditions and police departments should use Tasers under only limited circumstances," she said.

In recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Taser International reported that the company had been named as a defendant in 18 wrongful death or personal injury lawsuits since the x26 was introduced in 2003. Two of those cases had been dismissed as of March, while the other 16 are pending.

The company noted in the filing that their products "may result in serious, permanent bodily injury or death to those involved. Our products may cause or be associated with these injuries."

Pierson's mother said she thinks deputies used excessive force to restrain her son, who lived with in the 21000 block of Sandia Road in Apple Valley. Her son did not work, but collected Social Security disability benefits, she said.

"I have never known him to be uncooperative with the police," Dorothy Pierson said.

The San Bernardino County Coroner's Office is expected to perform an autopsy by the end of the week, said Randy Emon, spokesman for coroner. He said in his 10 years of experience working at the coroner's office he has never known of anyone dying from a Taser.

The autopsy will attempt to determine the cause of death. Toxicology tests, which take up to six weeks for results, will also be performed, Emon said.

LeRoy Standish may be reached at 951-6277 or leroy_standish@link.freedom.com.

Return to Desert Dispatch