Anne Arundel County police are investigating whether a rookie officer was justified in fatally shooting a naked, unarmed man who charged at him Tuesday night from behind an electric utility box in Glen Burnie, a top police official said yesterday.

Donald E. Coates, 20, of Glen Burnie died of at least one gunshot wound Tuesday night after failing to surrender to Officer Tommy Pleasant near an Ordnance Road apartment complex, Deputy Chief Emerson Davis said at a news conference.

Advertisement

Police officials said witnesses told them that Coates had been using drugs before he fired a half-dozen shots inside the Allen Road townhouse that he shared with his girlfriend, his 1-month-old son and at least three others. But he did not have the gun when the officer spotted him several blocks from the townhouse, naked and behind a utility box, and told him to come out. The man charged 30 yards at the officer, who retreated behind his cruiser, and the men had "close-quarters contact" before Pleasant fired four shots, Davis said.

Davis declined to say how many times and where Coates was struck, or at what range.

Advertisement

"The officer used deadly force because he felt his life was in danger," Davis said. Asked later if the use of such force was acceptable, Davis said, "That's what's under investigation. We have no position on that until the investigation is complete."

Davis declined to elaborate on whether there was a struggle between the officer and Coates, who the deputy chief said was exhibiting "delusional behavior." But Davis said that Pleasant, 22, was not injured.

Pleasant has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the results of the investigation, which will be reviewed by the state's attorney's office. The officer has worked for the Anne Arundel County Police Department for nine months but apparently had no previous law enforcement experience.

Family and friends were confused and outraged that Coates, who did not have a weapon, was fatally shot.

"This shooting was not necessary," said Coates' girlfriend, Chelsia Wallace, 18.

A consultant on police procedure, Edward Mamet, a retired New York police captain, said that because the officer was responding to a call of shots fired, he had cause to be nervous but did not necessarily have cause to draw his weapon.

"He should be ready, but he still needs a basis for the shooting," Mamet said. "That means a belief that deadly force was going to be used against him."

Mamet said he could not pass judgment without knowing more details, but he said "merely rushing at the officer is not deadly physical force." Mamet said that when responding to a call involving an emotionally disturbed suspect, an officer should isolate the suspect and wait for support.

Advertisement

In addition to a service weapon, patrolling county officers are equipped with cans of pepper spray and collapsible batons.

Coates lived for a few years with his mother and grandmother in a Cherry Hill rowhouse before moving in last year with Wallace at a Glen Burnie townhouse owned by her cousin, Tarnise Galloway, who has two children.

Coates had faced several drug charges dating to 2003. He was on probation in connection with drug distribution charges from last year, Baltimore court records showed.

But Wallace said that the birth of their first child last month, Kyrone, had made Coates more responsible in forging a new life. Coates was supposed to start work Tuesday night for a power-washing business, she said.

"He just found a job. He was trying to get some money together so we could get out of here," Wallace said. "He changed a lot in three years. He wasn't on the street anymore."

But the person who was supposed to take Coates to the job never showed, she said. Shortly afterward, Wallace said, she and Coates smoked marijuana. He took a phone call from a friend in jail, she said, then became "hysterical," asking Wallace if she knew if anyone was "coming after him."

Advertisement

Wallace said that she didn't think there were any weapons in the two-story townhouse, but moments later Coates came downstairs waving a gun at several people, telling them to leave.

Coates went into an upstairs bathroom, and Wallace pleaded for him to come out. At 6:34 p.m., he called 911 and said his life was in danger, police said.

Coates screamed, "Let my girl go, let my girl go," Wallace said, referring to her.

She stood on the stairwell just off the bathroom, but as she saw him becoming more volatile, she ran outside. Moments later, Coates fired six shots through the bathroom door and into the upper stairwell wall, police said.

At 6:37, Wallace's mother, who was among the group forced outside at gunpoint, called 911 to say that Coates was under the influence of drugs and armed, police said.

Police then gave this account:

Advertisement

At 6:38, Coates jumped from a second-floor window. Two people sitting in a van on Allen Road had just returned from a trip to a store when Coates got into their vehicle and reached for his waistband.

But Coates had left the gun in the house. When the two discovered that he was unarmed, Coates ran away. In the next few minutes, 911 dispatchers took several calls from residents seeing a naked man running through the area.

At 6:47, Pleasant discovered a naked man behind a utility box. The officer parked his cruiser, got out and drew his gun, telling the man to come out, police said. Several witnesses said Pleasant took evasive action. Moments later, Coates was shot. He died at the scene.

The deputy police chief said that Pleasant had received information from 911 dispatchers that had come from Coates and Wallace's mother before encountering the naked man. But the deputy chief said it would be "mere speculation" to say whether the officer knew that the dispatches were about the person he encountered.

Davis said that the state medical examiner's report on Coates likely will not be available for several weeks.

Yesterday afternoon, detectives found clothing in the vicinity of where Coates was shot.

Advertisement

Sun staff writers Childs Walker and Liz F. Kay contributed to the article.