Todd Ruger

A man identified by officials Thursday as the person who fatally shot himself to death after taking a police officer's weapon and squad car Wednesday had a history of domestic violence, according to Scott County court records.

Less than a week earlier, on May 19, Jack L. Ball, 28, of Davenport, had ended a seven-day jail stint for violating a domestic abuse protective order filed in January by the woman he followed in his car Wednesday, documents in a partially sealed Scott County court record state. The woman, whose 5-year-old daughter was fathered by Ball, also was identified by police as a victim in a 2000 domestic abuse case involving him.

The incident began Wednesday when the woman called police at 5:19 p.m. to report that Ball was following her car as she left work at NorthPark Mall.

The "rolling" domestic dispute ended with Ball's suicide after he tried to drive the squad car out of the parking lot at the Ruby Tuesday restaurant on East 53rd Street, authorities said. Ball's car had been damaged while ramming the woman's car and crashing into a guardrail, Scott County Attorney Bill Davis said.

Davenport police officer Scott Fuller, who was knocked unconscious by Ball after driving to the spot where Ball crashed his car in the Showcase Cinemas 53 parking lot, remains hospitalized, Davis said. Describing Fuller as a "seasoned" officer, the county prosecutor said he was not seriously hurt.

The woman was not injured and no police officers fired a weapon, he said.

Ball had "the possibility of murderous intent" when he repeatedly rammed his ex-girlfriend's car, Davenport Police Chief Mike Bladel said at a news conference Thursday morning.

Matt Potter, the woman's stepfather, said Wednesday night that he believed Ball's intention was to kill her.

"He's been threatening to kill her for months. He's threatened all of us, the whole family," Potter added.

A female identifying herself as the woman's mother said the family had no comment when contacted Thursday by the QUAD-CITY TIMES.

Ball's brother, John Ball, said his family is relieved that nothing happened to the woman and that the officer is expected to make a full recovery.

His brother had been the primary caretaker of the 5-year-old girl, but he had not been able to visit his daughter for the past six to eight weeks, John Ball said.

"He has been torn up over the past several weeks about what's been going on," John Ball added. "I think he just got to a point where he just snapped."

John Ball said his brother was one of those people who had a hard time with life, but does not think he went out Wednesday with the intention of events occurring as they did.

"Obviously it's hurting us here as well," he said. "The one thing he truly cared about wasn't there any more, and that was taking care of (his 5-year-old daughter)."

Prior domestic violence

Physical violence and threats are sprinkled through Jack Ball's criminal record, including a prison term he served on a 1996 conviction for assault and false imprisonment of a woman who was his girlfriend at the time.

Police said he punched that woman in the head and body and threatened to kill her while not allowing her to get out of a car. Following his conviction, his prison sentence was suspended, but he had to serve it after violating the terms of the probation, court records state.

He also served time in jail for a case of domestic assault with injury that occurred on Valentine's Day 2000, when police said he grabbed and punched the woman who was involved in the Wednesday incident, according to court records.

On that affidavit, police said the woman "is in extreme fear of Jack Ball and has requested a restraining order."

Police said at the time that Jack Ball faced a criminal allegation of domestic assault against the woman stemming from a New Year's Day 2000 incident as well as a harassment charge for calling her mother a day later and saying, "Don't make me come over there, through your front door, and kill all of you to get my daughter."

Officials release details

Bladel said Fuller is recovering from a concussion after stepping into a dangerous situation.

"Our officer placed himself in harm's way and saved a woman to raise her 5-year-old child," he said of Fuller's actions. "He did what he could and I'm not going to second-guess him on that."

Because the incident involved a Davenport police officer, the Scott County Sheriff's Department and the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation will conduct an inquiry into the events of Wednesday afternoon.

Davis said Fuller saw Jack Ball's white Mercury Cougar strike the rear of the woman's Ford Explorer near an entrance to the movie theater complex and then strike her vehicle so hard it spun around.

The Cougar hit the guardrail at the south end of the parking lot as a result of the collision, and the officer drove to the scene with his flashing lights and sirens on, Davis said.

At that point, Jack Ball got out of his car and approached the squad car. It appears an altercation took place inside the car, Davis said.

"He reaches in somehow," Davis said, adding that the investigation continues and squad car video cameras did not capture the altercation. "The officer Maces him right away."

Fuller, who ended up unconscious, either got out of the squad car or was pulled out, Davis added.

Despite being sprayed with the self-defense agent, Jack Ball got in the squad car, drove it west and then north through the Showcase parking lot, into the Ruby Tuesday parking lot, around the north side of the restaurant and through a temporary fence, Davis said.

"He saw there was a 3-foot curb he couldn't get over" near the roadside marquee for the theater complex, Davis said.

Jack Ball then turned the car around, saw another squad car coming and shot himself, Davis said, adding that the car continued rolling by itself until it hit the temporary fence and came to a stop.

Officers responding to the scene initially had no idea Jack Ball had stolen the squad car since Fuller was knocked unconscious, Davis said.

"The second officer runs to the car thinking it's still his officer" in the squad car and then found the body, Davis said. "He's still having to be assured that's not an officer."

Davis said he has no doubt that if Jack Ball had gotten out of the Showcase area, "he would have proceeded to her (the woman's) house and looked for her."

"You fear for the worst," he said, adding that the court system provided convictions, incarceration and enforced protective orders in the domestic dispute.

"People are led to believe that's security," he said of protective orders. "Seldom can we change what's in a person's heart."

Todd Ruger can be contacted at (563) 383-2493 or truger@qctimes.com.

The end result of

a "rolling" domestic dispute played out at about 5:19 p.m. Wednesday in the parking lot of Showcase Cinemas 53 after a woman called 911 to say her ex-boyfriend, Jack L. Ball, 28, was following her car:

Officer Scott Fuller, responding to

the 911 call, stops at the end of the north entrance to the cinema complex.

Fuller sees Ball's vehicle strike the woman's Ford Explorer near the

east entrance to the theater.

Ball's vehicle comes from the officer's right and strikes the woman's vehicle hard enough to spin it around. Ball's car strikes a guardrail. Fuller drives to the

scene with his lights and sirens on and

Ball approaches the car. Fuller is knocked

unconscious and Ball is maced during

an altercation. Ball takes Fuller's service weapon and squad car.

Ball drives the squad car around the west side of the parking lot.

He then turns into the parking lot of

the Ruby Tuesday restaurant and is blocked from the cinema complex exit by a

3-foot curb.

Ball turns the car around, shoots himself, the car stops at a temporary fence.