One of the deputies reportedly leaned over the dying Eric Vantslot and told him to breathe after Vantslot suffered two gunshot wounds to the upper body. Vantslot, 30, later died after being airlifted to Denver's St. Anthony Central Hospital.

Vantslot reportedly pointed the gun replica at one of the deputies in front of his ex-girlfriend's house in the 1100 block of Fourth Street in Lyons.

The 6-inch lighter looked like a semi-automatic handgun, said Boulder County Sheriff George Epp. "I walked by it, and I thought it was a gun," Epp said.

Deputies Steve Aubry and Peter Zavednak fired five rounds at Vantslot, Epp said. Both men were placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation.

Aubry, 43, is a 17-year department veteran. Zavednak, 27, spent three years in Eagle County before being hired in June by Boulder County. He was in the final phase of field training.

Epp said it appeared the deputies did everything right. "There's nothing right now that indicates there are any problems at all," Epp said.

Aubry and Zavednak were responding to a 911 call by 32-year-old Tressen Hoylman. Police allege Vantslot threw Hoylman against the wall of her house earlier this summer.

The two used to live together. After the alleged assault, authorities told Vantslot to stay away from Hoylman.

Vantslot came to Hoylman's house early Tuesday morning and threatened her, Epp said. She called 911, and Aubry and Zavednak approached the house on foot about 5:30 a.m.

The deputies saw Vantslot on the front porch. He then walked toward them with what looked like a handgun, sheriff's officials said.

As he got closer, the deputies repeatedly told Vantslot to stop and drop his weapon, officials said. Vantslot allegedly raised what appeared to be a gun at one of the deputies as he approached.

Vantslot told the deputies they would have to shoot him or he would shoot them, according to the Sheriff's Department.

The deputies then fired.

Rick Breese, who lives near Hoylman, said he was drinking his morning coffee when he saw the two deputies walk past his house toward Hoylman's.

Breese said he heard three gunshots and the deputies command Vantslot to lie on his stomach. He then heard the deputies radio that shots had been fired.

"I also started hearing a male voice say, "Breathe, breathe, breathe,'" Breese said. "It was still dark but I could still see figures bent over something in the road."

Breese has lived in Lyons, population 1,600, for 20 years. "Lyons is a very enjoyable community; it's a gem," Breese said. "It's the only small town left in the foothills from the Wyoming border to Colorado Springs."

The Boulder County coroner is scheduled to perform an autopsy on Vantslot today.

The last fatal shooting by a Boulder County deputy was in 1988. Deputy Kerry Fournet killed Derek Scott Powell after he pointed a rifle at Fournet in Coal Creek Canyon.

The shooting was ruled justified.