A Palmdale man was convicted on two counts of second-degree murder Tuesday for a wild, alcohol-fueled ride in a stolen motor home that killed two Antelope Valley residents.

Christopher Anthony Hall, 43, was also found guilty of 10 other counts, including assault with a deadly weapon against a police officer and driving under the influence.

He was acquitted of two counts of attempted murder of a police officer.

The 2005 incident resulted in the deaths of Lilian Mary Arevalo, 49, of Palmdale and Brian McWright, 16, of Lancaster.

“There was absolutely no doubt that because of Mr. Hall’s behavior that day he took the lives of two very precious people and forever altered the lives of many,” McWright’s parents, Steve and Coretta McWright, said in a statement. “A corresponding verdict is no less than what we had hoped for.

“We are thankful that this chapter is nearing the end and we can truly move forward in our healing process.”

Hall had pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, but the same Los Angeles Superior Court jury Tuesday also found Hall to be legally sane at the time of the crashes.

Hall’s attorney, Walter W. Katz, called the collisions “a mind-boggling tragedy” and noted that people’s lives were changed forever. He did not focus his case on disputing physical evidence, but instead argued the case was about “what was going on inside my client’s head.”

Hall stole the 28-foot-long motor home on June 18, 2005, from a Pearblossom gas station, probably within one to three hours of the first fatal crash.

The motor home hit Arevalo’s car about 4 p.m. on 47th Street East, south of Avenue R-8. Arevalo’s car went out of control and crashed into a utility pole.

The motor home kept going, causing two other minor collisions before sheriff’s deputies spotted it near Avenue P and 26th Street East.

Deputies pursued the motor home for about eight minutes until it crashed into two more cars at Palmdale Boulevard and 50th Street East.

Prosecutors said Hall’s blood-alcohol level was 0.15 two hours after the crash, almost twice the legal limit of 0.08.

The car containing McWright was dragged more than 100 feet before the motor home overturned. McWright was with his older brother, a cousin and his brother’s girlfriend on the way to a Juneteenth celebration – commemorating the abolition of slavery in Texas – at Jackie Robinson Park in Littlerock.

McWright, who attended Lancaster High School and was in the school’s Junior ROTC program, died three days after the crash.

Daily News wire services contributed to this report.