Get Active

Subscribe

Support Us URL: http://www.mapinc.org/drugnews/v05/n000/a220.html

Newshawk: Beth

Votes: 0

Pubdate: Fri, 01 Jul 2005

Source: Peoria Journal Star (IL)

Copyright: 2005sPeoria Journal Star

Contact: <

Website: <http://pjstar.com/>http://pjstar.com/

Details: <http://www.mapinc.org/media/338>http://www.mapinc.org/media/338

Author: Phil Luciano

Referenced:

<http://www.mapinc.org/drugnews/v05/n1052/a04.html>http://www.mapinc.org/drugnews/v05/n1052/a04.html

Related:

<http://www.mapinc.org/drugnews/v05/n1052/a05.html>http://www.mapinc.org/drugnews/v05/n1052/a05.html



SILENCE SCREAMS SUSPICION



Did David Green have to die?



Police say yes. His family says no.



You would expect that sort of fracture. But we'd also expect more details about the matter.



Yet a week after the Illinois State Police gunned down Green, the public remains antsy with questions that cops refuse to answer.



I keep getting calls and questions, gossip and rumors. The bottom line is this: People don't understand why police had to blow away a guy growing a little weed at his rural residence.



Maybe there's more to the story. If so, it's about time the state police pipe up.



So far, details are scant.



At 6 a.m. last Friday, the West Central Illinois Task Force went to the home of Green, 47, who lived alone in a rented home amid flatlands and woods outside Glasford.



According to the search warrant, the task force was looking for materials "associated with cannabis and controlled substance violations." State police officers served the warrant, while Fulton County sheriff's deputies secured the area outside.



When officers entered the house, Green was upstairs. Green, armed with a long gun and handgun, pointed the pistol at officers. Officers ordered him to drop his weapons, but he refused. So an officer shot him repeatedly in the chest and abdomen, killing him.



I've had private discussions with police and others close to the case. Here are a few more details:



Green was asleep in his bedroom when police rapped on his door. When they got no answer, they forced their way in.



Police rushed upstairs, where Green waved his pair of firearms. The standoff lasted a minute or two, with Green ignoring officers' repeated demands that he drop both weapons. Moreover, Green cussed angry threats of harm at the officers.



The family questions the likelihood of such a scenario. They paint Green as a laid-back man who rarely showed anger.



His criminal record appears brief. At age 22, he was arrested in Peoria County for burglary. He served just less than four years.



In 1999 in Peoria County, he was arrested for possessing marijuana and drug paraphernalia. His ex-wife said he was caught at a bar with a hitter pipe that had pot residue inside. The case was pleaded out as a misdemeanor.



As a felon, he wasn't supposed to have guns. But his family says he kept firearms at his Glasford residence for the same reason many country folks do: With police rarely around, they want to be ready for intruders.



Green's house had no air conditioning, so he had three loud fans in his bedroom. Maybe, his family says, he didn't hear police when they knocked on his door.



When they burst in, Green could have become alarmed and grabbed for his guns to defend himself against intruders. The family wonders if he was shot before be realized his adversaries were police.



"He believed in God very much," says his stepdaughter, Sarah Stone, 30, whom Green raised. "He always said, 'Do right by The Man, and He'll take care of you.' "



Not that he always did right. But his good far outweighed his bad, according to his survivors, who also include daughters Shelby, 14, Chelsey, 13, and ex-wife Linda Mordue, with whom he remained friendly in the six years since their divorce.



Green, a Peoria native, married Mordue in 1987. He delighted in playing with the three children, especially growing beets in their garden and towing the kids around the yard in a wagon hitched to a rider mower.



Green had been working construction when the couple decided to start their own building company. In 1998, however, Green was rear-ended in a car wreck, and injuries kept him from working for a year.



Meanwhile, their company went under and the couple declared bankruptcy. Green, on heavy and constant painkillers, grew distant from his wife.



"It messes with your emotions and feelings," she says.



They divorced, but he stayed close to his teenage daughters, calling almost daily and visiting them in their West Peoria home at least once a week.



They say he often came through with emergency money, such as when the girls needed braces and dental work. He didn't have much cash, so he'd sell tools and get title loans.



His cash-scraping makes the family ask this question: If he had been selling drugs - enough to prompt a police search of his house - where was all of the money? Why would he need to take title loans?



"He wasn't a drug lord," his stepdaughter says. "We are proud to have him as our father. We have no reason to hold our heads down in shame."



After Green's death, police brought drug charges against the owner of the property, Daniel Matheny, 32, who lived in a house right by Green's rental home. Matheny was charged with growing more than five but less than 20 marijuana plants, a Class 4 felony punishable by up to three years in prison - the state's lowest possible felony.



Police have not discussed the specifics of the charge against Matheny. He has bonded out of jail, but I could not reach him for comment.



However, Green's ex-wife speculated that Matheny might have nothing to do with the pot plants. Rather, they likely were Green's, she says. They had been growing in woods directly in back of Green's house. Further, she says police found a handful of starter plants inside Green's house.



She says Green sometimes used the drugs recreationally. But, she says, maybe he also used them to ebb his continued car-wreck pain.



His daughter Chelsey says, "I did a report in school on drugs. And doctors say it can be used medically, for pain."



Maybe police have another version of Green's drug use. After all, someone had to tell police about the pot plants.



What were the circumstances of the tip? Had Green been selling drugs? Or did a visitor to his house get mad at him for some reason and decide to rat out a small-potatoes pot user?



A lot of people are interested in the answer to that question. If he was a dealer - of pot or possibly other drugs - we can understand why police came knocking. If he was just smoking a little weed, a door-busting search warrant seems excessive.



I'm not saying police did anything wrong. But their hush-hush attitude only raises the public's eyebrows.



The Fulton County Sheriff's Department only provided back-up. And Fulton County State's Attorney John Clark says he knows little about the particulars of the search; he's waiting for a full report from state police.



So are the rest of us.



According to protocol, the state police internal affairs division is examining the matter. The investigation could take weeks. Yesterday, I couldn't even get a call-back.



Regardless of the outcome of the internal-affairs probe, secrecy is outrageously unnecessary in this case.



I understand why cops keep their lips tight during investigations when a criminal is on the loose: Cops don't want to release details that only the criminal knows.



But his case is over. Cops aren't looking for anyone. Green is dead. There's no need for secrets.



Police could simply tell the public what happened, and their actions speak for themselves. If they handled things properly, they have nothing to hide.



But the delay only makes the public think the state police are trying to get all their ducks in a row to hide any mistakes.



Even if they truly handled the case right, silence screams suspicion.



