Who was Thomas George Servais? The 58-year-old man, who was killed by a law officer after robbing a convenience store and shooting a pursuing witness, once worked as a police officer and had graduated from Rocky Mountain College.

But other details about Servais' life remain elusive as investigators continue to piece together the events that preceded the gunfire in a residential neighborhood June 24 that injured a Billings man and left Servais dead.

"He's still a mystery man," police Sgt. Mark Cady said. "We know who, what, where and when. Now it's just the why."

Servais was shot twice by Yellowstone County sheriff's deputy Roger Bodine at the intersection of Avenue F and 12th Street West shortly after robbing a Grand Avenue convenience store at gunpoint about 3 p.m. He was pronounced dead a short time later at a Billings hospital. Servais had netted $130 in the robbery.

Police initially said it appeared Servais exchanged gunfire with Bodine before Servais was fatally wounded. But investigators said Monday it is now unclear whether Servais fired at the deputy, although he reportedly pointed a semiautomatic handgun at Bodine.

Before he was killed, Servais shot a Billings man who followed him from the scene of the robbery.

Mark McManus, 45, said he was driving by the store when he noticed something strange. He followed Servais' small white car and called 911 on a cellular phone. McManus said Servais made a U-turn in front of his own car at 12th Street West and Avenue F, and then fired one shot that passed through the door of McManus' car and hit his left knee.

Yellowstone County Attorney Dennis Paxinos has requested a coroner's inquest, which has yet to be scheduled. Bodine remains on voluntary paid leave, Sheriff Chuck Maxwell said Monday.

Cady said a police detective had spoken with Servais' brother in Minnesota, but the family could shed little light on the man's recent activity. The brother said that the family was shocked by the events in Billings and that Servais had been out of touch with his family for at least a year, Cady said.

Servais apparently had no criminal record, and he worked for a short time as a police officer in an Oklahoma juvenile prison. He was employed for six weeks in 1996 by the Oklahoma Office of Juvenile Affairs before he was discharged, said agency spokeswoman Rhonda Burgess. Servais was paid a salary of $1,330 a month, but no other information about his employment is a public record, Burgess said.

Cady said investigators believe Servais may have also worked as a corrections officer in Wisconsin, and Servais had a Wisconsin driver's license. A spokesman for the Wisconsin Department of Corrections said they have no record of Servais working for that agency.

Servais owned the car he was driving, Cady said, and it appeared he had been living out of the vehicle. A resume found in the car indicated Servais graduated from Rocky Mountain College in 1980. A Rocky spokesman said he could not release information about students or alumni of the private college.

Cady said it appeared Servais may have worked as a geologist in other states, but other than his degree from Rocky, his ties to Billings and Montana remained unclear. Cady said detectives do not know how long Servais was in the area before his death.

Cady said there is no indication that Servais had any recent medical problems. The gun he used to commit the robbery and to shoot McManus - a .38-caliber handgun - is being traced, Cady said.

Cady said officers scoured the area between where McManus was shot and where Bodine shot Servais, but they could find no spent shell casings from the man's handgun. They also did not find any casings in Servais' car, he said.

Officers know Servais fired at least one bullet at McManus. Bodine fired eight times at Servais, hitting the man twice and hitting his car four times, police said.

Bodine fired at Servais through the front windshield of his patrol truck. Maxwell said deputies are trained to remain in their vehicles if they are being shot at, and to return fire through the glass if possible. Bodine was firing a 10 mm handgun.

After the shooting, a small dog was recovered from Servais' car. The dog, a male terrier, remained at the Billings Animal Shelter on Tuesday.