Only the second man to be stunned by a Butte police Taser gun has died.

Otis G. Thrasher, 42, of 131 Trinity Loop, had been unconscious in St. James Healthcare since shortly after the incident happened on Tuesday, July 5, around 7 a.m.

He was disconnected from life support Friday, according to Chief Deputy County Attorney Brad Newman. The medical staff had considered him brain dead a few days ago, Newman said.

Because police conduct may have contributed to the death, a coroner's inquest will be held and an autopsy performed at the State Crime Lab in Missoula.

"When officers are involved in any fashion in a death we always request an inquest," Newman said, adding that state law requires such action.

County officials have asked staff from the state justice department to investigate the circumstances surrounding the death.

"We always bring in someone neutral and dispassionate so that they can report to the coroner's jury," Newman said.

According to police reports, Thrasher appeared to be high on some type of stimulant during the confrontation. That will be examined as a contributing factor to his death as well, Newman said.

Police were called to Thrasher's house that morning on a domestic disturbance report. Thrasher was allegedly threatening to hurt his wife and his daughter.

After police arrived, Thrasher allegedly brandished a knife, threatening at times to hurt himself and the officers. At one point, he allegedly threw the knife at officers, Newman said.

A felony charge for assault on a peace officer was pending against Thrasher in Butte Justice Court, as well as a misdemeanor partner or family member assault charge.

Officers also tried to subdue Thrasher with pepper spray, but that didn't work, reports said.

One Taser dart lodged in Thrasher's forehead and the other in his torso. Tasers fire two darts connected to 21-foot wires that deliver 50,000 volts of electricity to temporarily immobilize. They're manufactured by Taser International of Scottsdale, Ariz.

"The outcome wasn't what we'd like to see, but we don't have any control over some of these things," Sheriff John Walsh said.

Police are trained to aim for the "center mass" of a body, Walsh said, but in this case, Thrasher ducked down as the gun was fired.

"That's just part of what can occur in these active situations," Walsh said. "The person isn't just standing there waiting for this Taser to get shot at them." He declined to release the name of the officer who fired the Taser, saying that will come out later.

"These are tools to try to reduce the potential for deadly force, but there are no guarantees," Walsh said. "I really believe that the officers were justified if they had used deadly force. They tried to use something less and it just turned out differently." The police department's first Tasers arrived in March, but weren't used until this month.

The first use came July 1 during a disturbance at a local casino and caused no lasting effects, Walsh said.

"It's very, very seldom when there's any kind of residual effect," Walsh said, adding that this death is not at all prompting second thoughts about Tasers.

"I fully believe in them, and I have no reservations in using them," he said.