Houston Police Department > News Releases Incident at 11700 Biscayne Way July 19, 2005 -- One of three burglary suspects was shot during a confrontation with a Houston police officer and the officer's father at 11700 Biscayne Way about 4:25 a.m. today (July 19). The wounded suspect, an unknown Hispanic male, is in critical condition at Ben Taub General Hospital with a gunshot wound to the head. A second suspect, described only as a Hispanic male, fled in a light colored minivan that has its rear window shot out and has several bullet holes in the driver's door. A third suspect, possibly a Hispanic male, is also wanted in the incident. HPD Homicide Division Sergeants S.H. Kennedy and L.A. Flores reported: A homeowner, Jaime Castilla Hernandez, 57, saw three Hispanic males breaking into a neighbor's Ford Expedition. Mr. Hernandez called police and his son, HPD Officer N.J. Hernandez, who lives across the street and was off-duty. Mr. Hernandez retrieved a 12-gauge shotgun, went outside and ordered the suspects to stop what they were doing. He fired one shot in the air and one in their direction to scare off the suspects, but the suspects continued to burglarize the truck. When Mr. Hernandez again told the suspects to stop, one of the suspects pointed what Mr. Hernandez believed was a weapon at him. At that time, Mr. Hernandez fired his weapon and struck the back of the suspects' van, possibly injuring one of the suspects. Officer Hernandez, dressed in a police raid jacket with his badge hanging from his neck and in view, saw what was happening with his father and ordered the suspects to freeze and place their hands where he could see them. None of the suspects obeyed the officer's commands. One of the suspects loading things from the Ford Expedition into the suspects' van ran to the driver's side of the van and got in. He then pointed a gun at Officer Hernandez, who in turn discharged his weapon multiple times, possibly striking the driver. Officer Hernandez is assigned to the Northeast Patrol Division and was sworn in as an HPD officer in December 1994. As is customary, the incident is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's office. Anyone with information on the two wanted suspects and their damaged van is urged to contact the HPD Homicide Division at 713-308-3600 or Crime Stoppers at 713-222-TIPS. JFC/DJC 7-19-05

Inc #110403105 For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.