VISTA —— Emotions remained raw in some parts of Vista onThursday, the day after a community forum that city and San DiegoCounty Sheriff’s Department officials had hoped would help the cityheal in the wake of three deadly deputy-involved shootings over aspan of five days.

About 300 people attended the forum Wednesday night to discussthe incidents, and several hurled angry accusations at city and lawenforcement panelists in the wake of the shootings deaths. Allthree men who were killed were Latino.

The panel —— unable to discuss details of the shootings, pendingthe outcome of their own investigations —— listened to the angryoutpouring, talked about crime in the city and law enforcementpolicies, and tried to reassure residents that their concerns arebeing heard.

Advertisement

But Thursday, family members of one of the slain men remainedunconvinced that the forum accomplished anything.

“We’re very happy that the community came out and supported us,but we’re disappointed that the panel did not answer theirquestions,” said Luis Mendez, brother-in-law of Jesus “Chuy”Eduardo Manzo, who was shot and killed Aug. 1. “We’ll be glad ifthey have another meeting and maybe we can get answers to all thequestions in the air.”

Attorneys representing the Manzo family said the family’sconcerns about racial profiling and use-of-force policies remain aconcern

“There is definitely an issue still out there, that hasn’tchanged,” said attorney Daniel Hitzke. “We wanted answers aboutpolicies on use of lethal and nonlethal force, but there are somany unanswered questions that the family has no choice but to takelegal action.”

Sheriff’s representatives have said that race played no part inthe shootings, and that all of the men who were slain spokeEnglish. They and city officials said the audience’s tone Wednesdayevening was not a surprise.

“We expected that response, considering the pain and sufferingthat a lot of families are going through right now,” said Lt.Hernando Torres, who helped moderate the meeting.

Panelists Sheriff William Kolender, District Attorney BonnieDumanis, Mayor Morris Vance and Capt. Rob Ahern of the VistaSheriff’s Station answered written questions from the crowd, thoughthey were often interrupted by the crowd.

“I am not sure that it was a dialogue, but it was a chance tohear from (the community) about their concerns,” Vance saidThursday. “I am not sorry we did it, we owed it to thecommunity.”

In the week following the fatal shootings, which took placebetween July 28 and Aug. 1, city and Sheriff’s Department officialssaid they had heard little from Vista residents.

That all changed Wednesday night.

Manzo’s family members said Wednesday that they printed anddistributed hundreds of fliers in Spanish, urging local residentsto attend the meeting. A family attorney said Wednesday that thefamily spent nearly $1,000 promoting turnout to the event.

In addition to attracting Vista residents, the meeting drew manypeople from outside the city, including organized groups such asActivist San Diego, representatives from the League of United LatinAmerican Citizens, American Friends Service Committee and activistsfrom Oceanside, Escondido and San Marcos.

Martin Eder, director of Activist San Diego, said in an e-mailThursday that group notices regarding the meeting reached about1,500 people and he estimated that about 35 people involved withthe organization attended the forum.

Some city officials challenged the groups to remain in the areaafter the media attention surrounding the shootings dies down.

“A lot of organizations from out of town were here for theissue, but where have they been?” Councilman Frank Lopez asked.”They are here today, gone tomorrow. If they are serious abouthelping our community rather than being there for the cameras, theyneed to put their money where their mouth is and start somethinghere.”

Vance said he recognized activists from other cities in thecrowd Wednesday, and questioned their motivation in attending theforum.

“A lot of people there were not from Vista and I don’t thinkthey made any great addition to the meeting, because they weretrying to use this issue to promote their own causes,” Vance said.”But the families (of the shooting victims) came, and it was goodto see them. That’s who we wanted to have the dialogue with, theresidents of the Townsite area.”

Vance said he and other council members are hoping to organize asecond forum after investigations of the shootings are complete, aprocess that officials said takes three to six months.

“The district attorney said she would be willing to come backwhen reports are in, and in the meantime, we made contacts that mayhelp a great deal,” Vance said.

The string of shootings is unprecedented for local lawenforcement, officials have said.

Deputies shot and killed Sergio Garcia Vasquez, 32, on NorthCitrus Avenue on July 28 after pepper spray failed to stop him whenhe threw a dumbbell at them and charged them, sheriff’s officialssaid.

The next day, a deputy in Vista shot and killed 26-year-oldJorge Ramirez, a parolee and known gang member suspected of anearby armed robbery as he reached into his clothes while beingchased by the police, officials said. Ramirez was found to have aknife in his clothing, authorities said.

On Aug. 1, deputies shot and killed Manzo, 23, after a K-9 unitfailed to stop him as he allegedly fled from deputies on NewportDrive. Authorities said deputies were trying to stop Manzo, whomatched the description of a car thief.

All of the victims in the shootings were Latino males in their20s or 30s, and two of the three incidents were in the Townsiteneighborhood, a high-density, low-income, predominantly Latino areanear the city’s center.

Contact staff writer Anne Riley-Katz at 631-6622 orariley-katz@nctimes.com.