EL CAJON —— Sheriff Bill Kolender spoke for the first timeTuesday about a string of deadly deputy-involved shootings inVista, saying there may be a need for more deputies in North Countybecause of increased violence and gang activity.

Those factors were involved in the three fatal shootings, butKolender did not specifically address why the shootings —— three inless than a week ——- might be happening or what he is going to doabout it.

Advertisement

Answering questions at a press conference, Kolender said he ismonitoring the findings of the shooting investigations. Out ofeight deputy-involved shootings this year throughout the county,five of the six fatal shootings have been in Vista.

Paul Levikow, spokesman for the San Diego County districtattorney’s office, said his office will review each of theshootings to determine if they were justified, as it alwaysdoes.

Meanwhile Tuesday, the identity of the young Latino man killedThursday night has not been confirmed, said sheriff’s homicide Lt.Tom Bennett. He said the man was fatally shot after talkingbizarrely to his roommates, grabbing one of them, then hurling a10-pound dumbbell at deputies.

He said the deputy who was hit while backing out of the roomused pepper spray first. The man was shot when that didn’t stophim, Bennett said.

Jorge Ramirez, 26, a convicted vehicle burglar, was on parole,under a court-ordered gang injunction and an armed robbery suspectwhen he was fatally shot Friday night while reaching into hisclothing for what could have been a gun, authorities said.

The Sheriff’s Department said Ramirez had a knife in hisclothing, but no gun.

“George has a big, loving extended family, and has proven to bea strong hardworking man,” said Amanda Tongate, Ramirez’s fiancee.”He was only trying to better himself, but never got the chancebecause his life was ended.”

Homicide Capt. Clay Reynard said deputies wanted to talk toJesus Eduardo Manzo, the 23-year-old man fatally shot Monday,because he matched the description of someone wanted in a stolenvehicle investigation.

The deputies also wanted to determine if Manzo, convicted of carburglary, was a documented gang member subject to the ganginjunction, Reynard said. His family said Manzo was not a gangmember and not subject to the injunction.

Manzo ran away when the deputies tried to contact him in the 800block of Newport Drive, Reynard said. The deputies chased Manzountil they lost sight of him briefly.

Found after a short search, he refused to stop for deputies or aK-9 dog that caught his foot as he tried to climb a fence, Reynardsaid.

Authorities said a deputy who confronted Manzo saw him reach forsomething on his hip that might be a gun fired a single shot thatkilled Manzo. Manzo had a multipurpose utililty knife, but no gun,Reynard said.

Manzo’s family issued a statement Tuesday through an attorneythat said they were heartbroken at his loss, thankful for those whohad offered support and prayers, and planning to cooperate with allinvestigations into the shooting.

“The big question the family has is why there are three (fatalshootings) of young Latino men before the Sheriff’s Departmentcomes out and addresses it,” said the attorney, Daniel Hitzke.

Asked about that Tuesday, Kolender said the fact that all threemen killed were Latinos was a matter of the demography of the area.More than 39 percent of Vista’s 95,500 population is Latino.

Earlier this year, Jose Antonio Mendoza, 24, was fatally woundedMarch 7 when his car crashed into the side of the Vista jail and heran inside and assaulted a lieutenant and a sergeant, authoritiessaid.

They said Roman Torres, also 24, was fatally shot May 15 afterhe allegedly threatened to kill a neighbor and fired twogunshots.

“I think it’s important that we recognize that these areindividual incidents with different deputies in each one, alsodifferent facts and points of judgment,” Capt. Rob Ahern, commanderof the Vista Sheriff’s Station, said Tuesday in an interview aboutthe most recent deaths. “These are all tragic incidents that needto be looked at individually.”

The deaths are devastating to the deputies who fired the shots,as well as each man’s family, friends and the general public, hesaid.

Deputies are trained to shoot for the biggest part of the body,the torso, to raise the chance of hitting the person and stoppinghim or her and to reduce the number of missed shots under thestress of a fast-paced scene, sheriff’s officials said.

“We shoot to stop their activity,” Bennett said. “We don’t shootto kill. We shoot until their behavior stops.”

He said he didn’t know yet what kind of nonlethal weapons thedeputies had with them at the shootings. Other investigations thatare always conducted in officer-involved shootings will determinethat, Bennett said.

“One common element in almost all officer-involved shootings isthe officer feels their life is in jeopardy,” said the lieutenant.”Most of the time they shoot to protect themselves.”

Contact staff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 740-3524 orjmoreland@nctimes.com; staffwriter Yvette Urrea at (760) 901-4076 oryurrea@nctimes.com. Staff writersTeri Figueroa and Anne Riley-Katz contributed to this report.

Shooting law, policies:

Under state law, any peace officer who reasonably believes aperson has committed a public offense may use reasonable force tomake the arrest, prevent escape or overcome resistance.

The law, Penal Code 835a, also says the officer doesn’t have toretreat or stop because the person resists or threatens to resistarrest, and the officer doesn’t lose his right to defend himself”by the use of reasonable force.”

Under San Diego County Sheriff’s Department policy, a deputy canshoot when he or she believes the deputy or someone else isthreatened with severe injury or death.

Sheriff’s deputies are trained to shoot at the body to stop anythreatening action immediately, not to kill.

So far this year, the San Diego County Sheriff’sDepartment has had eight deputy-involved shootings, six of themfatal:

Vista —— 5 fatal

Lakeside —— 1 fatal

San Marcos —- 1 nonfatal

Escondido —— 1 nonfatal

In 2004 there were six total shootings, twofatal:

Vista —— 1 fatal, 1 nonfatal

Escondido —- 1 fatal, 1 nonfatal

Fallbrook —— 1 nonfatal

El Cajon —— 1 nonfatal

In 2003, there were eight total shootings, threefatal:

Vista —— 2 fatal, 2 nonfatal

Encinitas —— 1 fatal

Valley Center —— 1 nonfatal

Lakeside —— 1 nonfatal

Spring Valley —— 1 nonfatal