Danielle Callahan wants people to know that her fiancé, who died Friday night in a shootout with his parole officer and Billings police officers, was not a bad person.

"He was never the way he's made out to be," she said Monday. "He never hurt anyone but himself. They make him out to be this horrible, horrible person. He's just the opposite. He'd do anything and everything he could to help someone else."

Justin Toland, 25, was shot in the chest shortly after 10:30 p.m. Friday in the parking lot outside a gas station-casino at Grand Avenue and Shiloh Road. Police say Toland pulled a 9 mm semiautomatic handgun when his parole officer and three police officers tried to arrest him on a warrant for parole violation.

During a brief exchange of gunfire, Police Capt. Dave Hinkle said, Toland fired six shots and the officers got off eight shots. Toland was pronounced dead at Deaconess Billings Clinic. No one else was injured.

After the shooting, Deputy Police Chief Rich St. John said Toland had been wanted for several weeks and was known to be armed. St. John said police were also aware that Toland had said in the past that he would rather die in a shootout than go back to prison.

Callahan talked about her fiancé Monday at the home of two good friends, Shane and Misty Waddingham. The four of them had been inseparable since Toland and Callahan met two years ago. Shane Waddingham said Toland was his best friend.

What hurts the worst, Waddingham said, is knowing that his friend died alone.

"The people that he loved and the people that loved him weren't around to say goodbye," he said. "He didn't deserve to die like this. He didn't deserve to die, period."

His friends said the situation should have been handled in a different way, but they don't deny that Toland bears a lot of responsibility for his own death. But Toland, like all of them, had struggled with methamphetamine, which makes people do terrible things.

"Dope is bad news and he knew it," Shane Waddingham said. "That's what sucked so bad is he knew it."

According to his friends, Toland was sentenced to prison five years ago for possession of meth. He served 15-1/2 months in prison in Deer Lodge before being released three years ago. He found a job at the Kwik Way at Broadwater Avenue and 15th Street West shortly after his release from prison and within 2-1/2 years he was managing the store, Waddingham said.

He was also off drugs and working hard. In addition to the Kwik Way job, he held down part-time jobs that included working at a pizza parlor, a lawn service and an auto detailing shop. He regularly worked 70 hours a week, Waddingham said.

"He never did anything half-ass," he said. "That was part of his problem."

Sometime this summer, Toland started using meth again. After he tested positive for drugs in a urinalysis test, he was charged with a parole violation and possession of drug paraphernalia. He was in jail from July 12 to July 18 and was supposed to appear in Municipal Court on the possession charge on Aug. 9.

He skipped that hearing, Callahan said, which is apparently what triggered the warrant for his arrest. His parole officer, Charlie Martin, was involved the shootout and has been placed on paid leave. Mike Ferriter, head of the Adult Community Corrections Division of the Department of Corrections, said he didn't know any details of Toland's case.

He also said he didn't know why Martin decided to try arresting Toland outside the casino Friday night. However Martin came to the decision, he called for police backup when he spotted Toland, and was soon joined by patrol officer Ronda Fox and detectives Jim Woog and Ken Paharik.

Fox, Woog and Martin all fired their guns during the shootout. Parahik did not because he was busy protecting a man who unwittingly drove his Jeep Wagoneer onto the scene just before the bullets started to fly. Paharik grabbed the man out of his Jeep, threw him to the ground and lay on top of him to protect him, St. John said.

Hinkle said "our indications are" that Toland fired the first shot, after being told repeatedly to drop his gun. All three police officers, like Martin, are on paid leave until they feel capable of returning to work, St. John said. The shooting is being investigated by police detectives, who will turn over their findings to the County Attorney's Office to determine whether criminal charges are appropriate.

Toland's friends say they don't see why Martin felt it was necessary to arrest Toland at the casino when Toland had been at work nearly every day until just five days before the shooting.

City Councilman Dick Clark, general manager for Kwik Way in Montana, confirmed that Toland continued working at the store on Broadwater until Sunday, Aug. 14. After that, Clark said, he just stopped showing up for work.

"They should focus on arresting people that are hurting other people," Callahan said. "He was just hurting himself. You know, he didn't go and rob places. He didn't go and beat people up for the fun of it. He was just hurting himself, not no one else."

Waddingham, 30, who served time in prison in Wyoming on marijuana charges and in Montana for possession of meth, said his friend knew that he wasn't likely to go back to prison on the latest charges. He had been told that he would be placed on intensive supervision and forced to go into treatment for his meth addiction.

But there's no telling what Toland was thinking under the influence of meth, which is known to induce paranoia, delusions and violent behavior. And when the cops showed up at the casino, Waddingham said, who knows what was going through Toland's mind.

Waddingham said Toland's worst fear wasn't prison; it was disappointing his grandparents, who live in Billings and helped raise him.

"He knew he messed up," Waddingham said. "When he got out of jail, he was afraid of losing everything he had."

Shortly after getting out of jail, on July 22, Toland went to the county courthouse with Callahan to get a marriage license. Callahan said Toland didn't have the right birth certificate, and so they'd been planning to get married as soon as he rounded up the proper documents.

Misty Waddingham, Shane's wife, who is also on probation on meth-possesion charges, said the real culprit is the drug, and the lack of an effective community response to it.

She said she started doing meth 14 years ago, at the age of 10, and didn't kick the habit until two years ago. The first time she went in for treatment, she said, she was told she'd have to wait 2-1/2 months to get into a program.

"You need to get them into treatment as soon as somebody asks for help," she said. "You don't tell them they need to wait."

If treatment is hard to come by in Billings, meth never was, she said.

"It's so easy," she said. "When I was little it was easier for me to go out and get dope than it was for me to get cigarettes."

Her husband agreed.

"Meth is a huge frickin' problem in this town," he said. "It's the biggest problem this town has."

Ed Kemmick can be reached at 657-1293 or ekemmick@billingsgazette.com