Bail was set at $2 million Monday for a man accused of leading police on a chase that ended in a crash, killing a woman in another car. But outside the courtroom, the man's father said his son never was behind the wheel.

Seneca Allen's father, Norvel, questioned why police officers pursued the speeding car, a move he said endangered lives.

Advertisement

Seneca Allen, 21, of the 14700 block of Honore Avenue, Harvey, faces 41 felony charges stemming from the attempt to arrest him and the chase that began in Calumet City and ended 2.5 miles away in Dolton early Sunday.

Allen, still wearing a hospital gown, walked with a pronounced limp into the Markham branch of Cook County Circuit Court. Prosecutors said he was a flight risk and should be held without bail; his attorney said Allen was not driving the car, as police allege.

Advertisement

Allen's father said his son told him he was sitting in the car's back seat as a female driver led six squad cars on a chase reaching speeds up to 70 m.p.h. through a commercial area. His son is a scapegoat, he said.

"They didn't do their jobs whatsoever," Norvel Allen said. "They're just using my son because this lady lost her life and they have to put it on somebody."

Calumet City police say Allen beat up an officer in the parking lot of a bowling alley, then dived through the window of a car being driven by a woman. Inside were three other men, all in their 20s.

Allen wrested control of the Chevrolet Caprice from the driver and headed west on Sibley into Dolton, police said.

The Caprice ran a red light and crashed into the passenger side of a Nissan Sentra that had pulled into the intersection from Cottage Grove Avenue to make a left turn, police said.

Sitting in the Sentra's passenger seat was America Rodriguez, 22, of Blue Island, who was returning home after making pizzas at a Lansing restaurant. She was pronounced dead shortly after the accident. Two men in that car were injured, as were passengers in the Caprice.

Calumet City Police Sgt. Kevin Glaser said officers are investigating the relationship between Allen and the people in the Caprice, but Allen's father said his son spent the day with the three men and the woman. He questioned how Allen could be accused of a carjacking when he was a friend of the people inside.

Glaser said the occupants of the Caprice seemed to be signaling police for help and struggling with the driver.

Advertisement

Norvel Allen asked how his son could have dived headfirst into the driver's side window, then sat on the driver's lap as he took control of the vehicle. It would have been impossible for his son to drive that way, he said, adding that the four people in the car hadn't fought a driver without a weapon.

Norvel Allen also said he did not understand why Dolton police were not notified of the pursuit.

Dolton officials learned of the speeding car when a Calumet City dispatcher called, saying officers were entering Dolton and were at Cottage Grove and Sibley in a vehicle pursuit, said Sean Howard, Dolton spokesman.

But that location is about a mile inside Dolton. When Dolton police arrived there, they saw the accident's aftermath, Howard said.

Calumet City and Burnham police can hear one another's radio communications; Dolton does not share that band, Glaser said.

In an emergency covering several jurisdictions, such as when a suspect is driving on a highway with an abducted child, a local department can contact the Illinois State Police. A dispatcher there can relay the information broadly, allowing several jurisdictions to learn of the situation, said State Police Lt. Lincoln Hampton.

Advertisement

Calumet City never contacted the state police dispatcher, Glaser said, adding that officers had no time to do so.

"The pursuit lasted two minutes. Whenever it lasts for any amount of time, our goal is to get the help we need," Glaser said. "This one was over before it started."

Glaser would not comment on the city's chase policy, deferring to Chief Patrick O'Meara, who was unavailable Monday.

"They are conducting an internal review, and the initial indication suggests that department policy was followed," O'Meara said through Jason McCabe, a spokesman for City Hall.

He declined to say what the policy is.

Also Monday, in a news release, Calumet City said Seneca Allen is a suspect in a Chicago homicide, but Chicago police said only that he is wanted for questioning in the November 2004 shooting death of Bobby Barber, 31, of Dolton.

Advertisement

The shooting occurred at 123rd Street and Emerald Avenue on the South Side, said Pat Camden, Chicago police spokesman.

Another man, Dionte Banks, 21, of the 14600 block of South Peoria Street, Harvey, is charged with first-degree murder in Barber's death and is scheduled for a pretrial hearing Tuesday, according to a spokesman for the Cook County state's attorney's office.

Banks turned himself in to police shortly after Barber's death, officials said.

----------

tmaxwell@tribune.com