The suspect in a La Grange bank robbery was found dead Friday, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, in the Villa Park home where he had held police at bay for more than 27 hours.

The FBI and DuPage County sheriff's deputies discovered the body of Juan Silvas, 30, on the second floor of the white, two-story house about 4:15 p.m.

Advertisement

Authorities decided to go inside after going "quite a while" without hearing any sounds or having any communication with the man, FBI spokesman Frank Bochte said.

Bochte could not say whether there were guns near the body. The man was suspected of using a revolver and a semi-automatic weapon to rob the La Grange Harris Bank at 2000 S. La Grange Rd. on Thursday afternoon, taking about $1,000.

Advertisement

Bochte said at least one gun has been recovered from the scene of the standoff, and police also found cash in the house.

A tearful woman who answered the door Friday at Silvas' home in the 10200 block of South Ewing Avenue declined to comment. Police said Silvas is a former Marine.

On Thursday, he led police on a multitown chase--shooting at La Grange officers along the way, slightly injuring one officer hit by flying glass--until he dumped his car near Illinois Highway 83 and North Avenue. From there, Silvas ran through a wooded area and into a home in the 1N600 block of Creekside Street in Villa Park, prompting residents to flee.

Throughout the evening and into Friday afternoon, authorities tried a variety of methods to coax the man from the home, including loud percussion-like grenades and a chemical agent similar to tear gas. Authorities tried to talk to Silvas using a cell phone they tossed into the home and on the home's land line, reaching him once Thursday evening. They used a robot equipped with sound and video equipment to try to locate him, but the robot could not go up stairs.

Although neighbors were allowed to return to their homes Friday evening, Bochte said the owners of the house where Silvas had holed up will not be able to return for some time because the house is a crime scene. He said the house was full of tear gas and had to be ventilated before the body could be removed.

Police will document damage to the house so the homeowners can be compensated, he said.

Bochte said police searching the home found the body of the family's dog, Rosie, which the suspect allegedly shot.

But a relative said the home's residents escaped unharmed.

Advertisement

"The whole family's fine," said Jeff Lantz, whose sister, Sarah Searer, lives in the home with her husband and three children.

"She's been very quiet about the whole thing," he said. "She really hasn't told us the story. I'm sure they're very traumatized about it."

----------

tgregory@tribune.com

arozas@tribune.com