AN ENRAGED CITY correction officer was gunned down by cops in Harlem early yesterday after he opened fire on his estranged wife's car, wounding her and killing her new boyfriend, police and witnesses said. "You're gonna have to shoot me!

" Joseph Henry screamed as he pointed a 9-mm. handgun at four cops, witnesses and a police source said. The cops fired at the stocky, off-duty correction officer, cutting him down on W. 123rd St. just before 6:30 a.

Advertisement

m., a police source said. The love-triangle madness began to unfold three hours earlier when witnesses saw Henry, 40, of Manhattan, pacing outside 266 W. 123rd St. "He was staking her out," said a woman who lives in the building. Henry and his wife of five years, Yakira, 31, had shared an apartment there before he moved out a few months ago. As Henry lurked nearby, Yakira drove up in a black Toyota Camry and parked across the street from the building at about 6:20 a.

m. Her new beau, Damien Greenslade, 26, of the Bronx, was sitting in the passenger seat. "Who is this guy?

Advertisement

" Henry demanded after he rushed toward the passenger side of the car, witnesses and cops said. Brandishing a 9-mm. Smith & Wesson, Henry blasted Greenslade, a barber and nightclub bouncer, through an open window, hitting him in the stomach, chest, shoulder and leg, cops said. Tenants in nearby buildings heard at least 10 shots, and a police source said a spent magazine, which generally holds 15 rounds, was found near the car. Yakira, the mother of Henry's 5-year-old son, Camryn, bolted from the car and started running up the block, screaming in terror. "He shot me! He shot me!

" she yelled, according to Ronnie Towns, 19, who watched the bloodshed from his window. "Call the cops! I got shot! I can't feel my legs!

" Yakira Henry was hit twice in her right leg, shattering her femur, cops said. Police were alerted to the mayhem when a witness ran into the nearby 28th Precinct stationhouse, at W. 123rd and Frederick Douglass Blvd. Cops stormed out of the stationhouse and dashed about 125 yards where they found Yakira Henry writhing in pain on the sidewalk. Paramedics rushed her to Harlem Hospital, where she was in stable condition yesterday. "She's in a lot of pain but we are just glad that she's alive," said her grandmother, Priscilla Stevens. Two cops on foot and two more officers in a squad car caught up to Joseph Henry near 140 W. 123rd St. minutes after the gunplay, police said. "Freeze! Drop your weapon!

" the cops shouted, according to Taniqua Sheryl, 17. But Henry, wearing jeans and a blue T-shirt, refused, spewed a vulgar taunt at the cops and then raised his weapon. Cops fired, killing him. Neighbors said Henry had threatened his wife in the past, but police could not immediately confirm that account. Relatives said Yakira, who also has an 8-year-old son, is a daycare provider. She and Greenslade had just come from a party when they were ambushed. "He was probably at the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong female," said Cory Grant, who worked with Greenslade at Leroy's Barber Shop in the Bronx. "He was a good charmer of the ladies.

" "Damien was a big guy," said Angel, a co-worker at Temple, on Third Ave. in Mott Haven. "But he was the sweetest guy in town.

" Henry joined the Correction Department about nine years ago and worked at the Vernon Bain Center, a floating 800-bed jail on a barge in the Bronx. rmoore@nydailynews.

com