Three McHenry police officers came under gunfire early Monday as they rescued a woman and her teenage daughter from a man who had broken into their home and later fatally shot himself, officials said.

Mark B. Hanna, 46, of Woodstock killed himself with a hunting rifle some time after police left the home of his former girlfriend in the 5200 block of Victor Drive, said Deputy Police Chief William Brogan.

Advertisement

"Very shortly after entering the house, they took fire," Brogan said of the officers. "The officers were able to take the two females out of the house. No one was injured."

Hanna fired at least two shots at police while they were in the home, authorities said. Police did not return fire, Brogan said.

Advertisement

It's likely Hanna fired at the officers with the same rifle he used to kill himself, Brogan said.

Hanna forced his way into the home shortly after 4 a.m., police said. The woman called 911 at 4:17 a.m. Shortly after arriving, officers entered the home and rescued the woman and her daughter, police said.

After the rescue, the officers called in backups from 10 area police departments. A regional SWAT team surrounded the home with 40 to 50 officers.

Residents were evacuated from about 20 homes within two blocks of the house, police said.

Police also notified McHenry School District 15 and asked officials to keep nearby Parkland Middle School closed for the day.

About 11:15 a.m. police sent a robot with a camera into the home and saw Hanna lying on the floor of a basement bedroom. Officers entered about 11:30 a.m. and confirmed that he was dead.

Hanna had a stormy relationship for about a year with the woman, who had not spoken to him for about two months, Brogan said.

"Obviously, they're shaken up," Brogan said of the woman and her daughter. "Physically, they're going to be OK."

Advertisement

Police had been called to the home twice in the last year for domestic disputes, but Hanna was never charged, Brogan said.

A couple who rented a room to Hanna for about three months this summer at their home near McHenry described him as troubled man who had problems with alcohol. He often seemed depressed about his former girlfriend, the couple said.

Hanna had lived in Alaska for a time, had relatives in Wisconsin and did soldering work for a company in Woodstock, the landlord said.

It's unclear when Hanna shot himself, said Brogan, who speculated that it might have been the third shot heard by the police officers as they removed the woman and teen from the house.

Brogan would not identify the officers--two men and a woman--who rescued the woman and girl.

"They reacted calmly and professionally in the face of extreme danger," Brogan said.

Advertisement

The gunfire awakened Cassandra Weirick, 27, who lives in 5100 block of Shore Drive.

Weirick said she was told that she and her five children should remain inside their home.

"I freaked," Weirick said. "It's just shocking, that's what it is. I really can't imagine any of this happening in our neighborhood."

----------

jjlong@tribune.com

mfergus@tribune.com