Skip to comments.

Man shot by cops invaded two homes

Tucson Arizona Star ^ | September 25, 2005 | Alexis Huicochea

Posted on by Graybeard58

He didn't have a gun but was holding object that resembled one

The man who was shot and killed by an officer Friday night had invaded two neighboring homes, frightening a woman in her kitchen while her husband armed himself as he heard her screams.

The suicidal man, a prescription-drug abuser, wrote a message in his own blood at the next home before police caught up with him, police said.

He did not have a gun, but was holding an object that resembled one, police said Saturday.

Randy L. Helton, 43, was shot by Tucson Police Officer Daniel Mejia after pointing an L-shaped, black wooden plate-display holder, folded in half, at police and at his own head, said Sgt. Mark Robinson, a department spokesman.

Robinson gave the following account:

Officers were called to Helton's home in the 2800 block of North Swan Road after receiving a call about a domestic violence disturbance just after 5:40 p.m. Friday.

During the investigation, police learned that Helton had assaulted his wife, Kathleen Hanin, 45, with a wooden closet rod. Hanin's son, Paul Bozeman, stepped in. Helton then assaulted Bozeman, 21, with the closet rod.

When police arrived at the home, Helton was gone and Bozeman was taken to a hospital for treatment of a head injury.

Helton returned to the home while police were there, but ran away and unsuccessfully attempted to get inside a neighbor's home.

He went on to another home, where June and Lee Sullivan live.

"He came to our door and was saying, 'My wife needs medication, I need money,' " June Sullivan said Saturday. "He was shaky and my husband told me to close the door, so I did."

Lee went and got his gun, but Helton had gone around the side of their home, jumped the wall and entered the kitchen - where June was - through a back door.

"I just saw him standing in the middle of the kitchen and I started screaming," she said. "He told me, 'Don't scream, I just need money.' "

Lee Sullivan was outside looking for Helton when he heard his wife scream, so he ran back inside and saw Helton running out the back door, he said. Helton ran to the end of their back yard and then jumped the wall into another neighbor's yard.

Police are not sure when, but Helton managed to get into another home, directly next to his, that was being renovated. No one was home at the time.

There was blood all over the home from self-inflicted cuts on Helton's arms, Robinson said.

In one of the bedrooms, there was a book, "The Agony and The Ecstasy," by Irving Stone. Helton had written a note on the book cover in his blood.

It read:

"R H

KAT

I (LOVE) YOU"

It was in the front yard, which was surrounded by a 4-foot-wall, of that home where officers finally found Helton. He was sitting in a chair, holding the object that officers believed to be a gun, Robinson said.

As police were arriving to close in on Helton, officer Mejia was driving by on his way to an off-duty job in uniform. He heard on his police radio what was going on and decided to help.

Officers surrounded the outside of the walled yard. Helton was holding the display stand in his hand, like a gun, and pointing it at officers, even though they asked him to put it down, Robinson said.

When Mejia saw Helton get up from the chair and begin walking toward a gate that would have allowed him to escape into an area where the public would have been in danger, he fired once, striking him in the torso, Robinson said.

"Helton dropped the plate holder, but even as he was on the ground, he was trying to reach for it," Robinson said. "It was only after he was shot that we learned it was not a gun."

Helton had been depressed and discussed ending his life earlier in the day, the police spokesman said.

He had a history of abusing prescription medication and spent the previous night in jail on a domestic violence charge, he added.

After being released from the Pima County jail Friday morning, Helton was arrested again on prescription fraud charges, but was cited and released, Robinson said.

The owner of the home where the note written in blood was found said he did have a black plate holder, but was unable to find it on Saturday.

Many items inside the home had been broken, and the gas stove had been turned on but the pilots were not lit.

Mejia, an 11-year-veteran, has been placed on administrative leave, standard procedure in a shooting.

A shooting review board has been convened to review the incident, the third fatal officer-involved shooting this year.

Less-than-lethal force would not have been effective in this situation, Robinson said, because of the wall that acted as a barrier between police and Helton.

"The police begged him to come out of the yard and I heard them telling him to 'drop it,' " Lee Sullivan said of the standoff between Helton and police. "They were pleading with him for maybe 10 minutes. They told him, 'We don't wanna hurt you,' and then I heard one shot."



TOPICS:

Crime/Corruption

Extended News

US: Arizona

KEYWORDS:

banglist

Moral of the story: Never bring an "L-shaped, black wooden plate-display holder, folded in half", to a gun fight.



To: Graybeard58

Thank goodness it wasn't a gun or he'd have killed several people before the police arrived.



by 2 posted onby mtbopfuyn (Legality does not dictate morality... Lavin)

To: Graybeard58

This could be one of those terrible situations where the "victim' wants to committ suicide and sets up the police to shoot him. That is so hard on the officers.

I will pray that they are ok emotionally and legally.



To: Graybeard58

Suicide by cop. The gene pool is better today.



by 4 posted onby cpdiii (Roughneck, Geologist, Pilot, Pharmacist, Oil Field Trash and proud of it, full time Iconoclast.)

To: Graybeard58

Suicide by cop. So be it.



by 5 posted onby jocon307 (Sorry for my bad attitude)

To: Graybeard58

Good result there. Not so good here in Orlando, where a cop shot an undercover cop in the back three times last night. Still trying to figure out how that happened.



To: Graybeard58

Good riddance.



To: Graybeard58

New Title:



Millions Saved in Legal,

Jaill, & Execution Costs



DimoDeathFreaks & ACLU Plague Rats, wail,

screech, and gnash their fangs.



To: jocon307; Americanwolfsbrother

I would have to concur with the assesment sucide by cop. As unfortunate as it is. I would say they cops were justified in acting in their own defense. In this day and age they have to assume it is a weapon, they no longer have the luxury of giving the suspects the benifit of the doubt.



by 9 posted onby Americanwolf ("You are stuck on Stupid" --- Army Lt. Gen. Russell Honore)

To: jocon307; cpdiii; Graybeard

Suicide by cop. So be it. While his troubles are over the cop will try to live with this for the rest of his life. Frankly, I'm surprised that his name has been released nationally so soon after the event. Prayers for him and his family for many years to come--from a survivor.



by 10 posted onby lightman (The Office of the Keys should be exercised as some ministry needs to be exorcised.)

To: Brilliant

Makes you wonder what his punishment will be, beyond the mental anguish for killing one of his own. If he doesn't get any punishment, it shows the double standards that get applied to police officers.

If someone is in their home and they shoot someone in the back who has broken in, they are charged with a crime. It is the same for someone who has a conceal carry permit. Will be interesting to follow this and see what happens.



To: Recovering Ex-hippie

Personally, I've always thought that the media makes more of "the officer's emotional state" after something like this than what really exists. I've met a lot of LEO who were also reservists or actice-duty and quite a few had deadly-force experiences. I never once ever heard any one of them lament the use of deadly force. From my perspective, were I the officer involved, I'd have double-tapped that wack-job forehead dead-center with about as much remorse or emotion as I have scraping dog sh*t off my shoe. This may "offend" some of the more "sensitive" posters here, but they might consider the fact that not all human life is equivalent and this nut-bag's only resemblence to civilized humanity was the fact he walked up-right; as evidenced by his actions. Evil exists until it's killed...period.



by 12 posted onby seadevil (...because you're a blithering idiot, that's why. Next question?)

To: mtbopfuyn

I agree.



by 13 posted onby WasDougsLamb (Just my opinion.Go easy on me........)

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson