OCEANSIDE —— An AWOL Camp Pendleton Marine suspected of crimesin San Diego and Riverside counties apparently shot himselfWednesday when investigators found him in Oceanside, authoritiessaid.

Advertisement

They said that James Jenkins, 23, was in extremely seriouscondition after the shooting about 8:30 a.m. at an apartment in the800 block of Vine Street, just west of Interstate 5.

“The initial report was (the gunshot was) self-inflicted, butthat’s under investigation,” said Sgt. Leonard Mata, Oceansidepolice spokesman.

Earlier this week, law enforcement officers said that Jenkinswas absent without leave from the Marine Corps and was suspected ofa series of crimes. He was considered armed, dangerous and possiblysuicidal, they said.

Jenkins allegedly stole a gun from an Oceanside shooting range,robbed a Perris motel a week ago, crashed a rental car stolen inOceanside during a pursuit after the holdup, then carjacked a womanand tried to sexually assault her, authorities said.

On Wednesday, he was due in a Vista courtroom to begin a jurytrial on felony charges that he had stolen a purse in late May froma car on Santa Fe Drive in Encinitas.

After hearing that Jenkins had shot himself, Deputy DistrictAttorney David Williams had that case dismissed.

At the time of the alleged purse theft, Williams said, Jenkinswas out on bail and awaiting sentencing in yet another theft afterpleading guilty to boosting a laptop computer from a car in MissionBeach in late March. Jenkins received probation for themisdemeanor.

Had he been convicted of the Encinitas theft, Jenkins faced upto five years in prison, prosecutor Williams said.

Officers began to close in on Jenkins after a San Diego CountySheriff’s Department deputy and a federal Immigration and CustomsEnforcement agent assigned to the San Diego Regional Fugitive TaskForce recognized him several days ago from a wanted poster, saidtask force coordinator Mark Owen, assistant chief deputy of theU.S. Marshals Service in San Diego.

“They knew him, knew his previous addresses,” Owen said.

He said the investigators didn’t have a warrant, but theystopped by the Vine Street home of Jenkins’ wife Wednesday morningto talk to her.

She denied that Jenkins was there, and eventually said she wouldlet them in to talk after she put some clothes on, Owen said. Hesaid she shut the door, and shortly after that, the agents heard agunshot.

“I heard some woman yelling, like, ‘He shot himself in thehead,’ ” said neighbor Rose Bayramian. “She was freaking out.”

The wife ran out of the apartment, and the agents secured thescene while calling for backup, Owen said.

A Mercy Air helicopter flew Jenkins to Scripps MemorialHospital, La Jolla.

Staff writer Teri Figueroa contributed to this story. Contactstaff writer Jo Moreland at (760) 740-3524 orjmoreland@nctimes.com.