TUSCOLA - A 23-year-old man on Monday pleaded not guilty to murder charges he faces for the Sept. 29 death of Michael D. Mann, 47, of Lovington.

Douglas County State's Attorney Kevin Nolan has charged Levi C. Gast of Mattoon with four counts of first-degree murder in Mann's death.

Gast was reported as suicidal to Mattoon police before a van he was driving crossed a center line of U.S. 36 about one quarter-mile east of Atwood and struck head-on a pickup truck driven by Mann.

Mann, who was a route carrier for the Herald & Review, was delivering newspapers when the crash occurred at about 3 a.m. He died in the accident.

Illinois State Trooper Ryan Fuoss, who investigated the accident, testified that Gast was initially reported as suicidal by his father and police were dispatched to attempt to check on his welfare.

Fuoss said Gast's van was later spotted by an Arcola police officer, but when the officer attempted to stop Gast's vehicle, a chase ensued. Gast headed north on U.S. 45 before turning west on U.S. 36 and crashing near Atwood.

Fuoss said no brake lights were observed by witnesses of the accident or skid marks left on the pavement to indicate Gast attempted to slow down before the crash.

Norman Meeker, an Atwood police officer, testified he had witnessed the accident from his pursuit position and through Gast's van window saw him sharply turn his steering wheel causing him to collide with Mann's truck.

Meeker said he checked on Gast after the accident and found him conscious. He said Gast told him he had been smoking crack cocaine, he didn't want to go to jail and Meeker observed Gast was hitting himself in the head.

After the testimony, Gast's attorney, Sean Britton, argued the prosecution had not proved Gast intended to kill anyone, but Circuit Judge Frank W. Lincoln found probable cause for the case to proceed.

Gast remains in custody in the Douglas County Jail and next appears in court for a pretrial hearing on April 5. Lincoln set an April 17 trial date for the case.

Mary Tallon can be reached at mtallon@;herald-review.com or 421-7984.