DECATUR - C. Joshua Meixner had a blood alcohol level more than twice the legal limit at the time he rammed his 1993 Lexus into a Decatur Police Department squad car, killing him and injuring police officer Robin Vogel, who later died.

The 24-year-old Cerro Gordo man's blood alcohol level was 0.205, Macon County Coroner Michael Day said Wednesday during an inquest into Meixner's death. The legal limit in Illinois is 0.08.

An autopsy showed Meixner died of massive head, chest and torso trauma, Day told the six inquest jurors. They returned a verdict of accidental death.

Illinois State Police trooper Todd Hanneken said that when he arrived at Pershing Road and Main Street after the crash at 4:03 a.m. Oct. 1, he found the Lexus with extensive front-end damage sitting in an exit from the Tater's restaurant parking lot south of the intersection. He said the squad car had extensive passenger-side damage and also was sitting south of the intersection.

Meixner was pronounced dead at the scene. Vogel was extricated from her squad car, taken to Decatur Memorial Hospital for treatment and then flown to Carle Foundation Hospital in Urbana, where she died Oct. 3.

Two witnesses said their vehicle was heading west on Pershing Road and stopped for a red light in the right driving lane next to Vogel's squad car, which was in the left driving lane, Hanneken said. When the light turned green, both vehicles started forward with the squad car slightly in the lead, which allowed the Lexus to hit it, he said.

There was no fog or rain that morning, and the pavement was dry, Hanneken said. The traffic signals were operating properly, he said.

Trooper Rick McFarland, an Illinois State Police accident reconstructionist, said he has not been able to determine how fast Meixner was traveling south on Main Street at the time of impact. He said the first point north of the intersection where drivers can see a traffic signal is 1,038 feet, and at 700 feet, signals on both sides of the highway are clearly visible.

"Vogel's vision could have been obscured by the vehicle next to her," McFarland said. "But the nature of humanity is not to take right off and accelerate from an intersection with a police car sitting next to them. She was accelerating normally and was far enough ahead of the other vehicle that she was hit."

When two vehicles hit, there is compression with the frames going downward, McFarland said. There was a gouge in the road 53 feet west of the white stop line on Pershing Road where the vehicle compression occurred, he said.

Neither vehicle left any skid marks indicating an effort to stop, McFarland said. Once the Lexus hit the squad car, Meixner was no longer in control of his vehicle and could not have braked, he said.

The squad car rotated counterclockwise, and the Lexus rotated clockwise until the vehicles "slapped" together, McFarland said. Vogel's car came out of the slap and spun straight south, he said.

Meixner's vehicle hit a curb and rolled, ejecting him into a telephone pole in the process, McFarland said. His vehicle then continued south to the restaurant parking lot, he said.

The yellow caution light at the intersection is on for 3.5 seconds and then red lights in both directions are on for 1.5 seconds to allow traffic to clear the intersection before the green lights activate, McFarland said.

"It doesn't appear there was a mechanical failure on the Lexus, but there was so much damage to the vehicle, no one can say for sure," he said.

State police Sgt. Tad Williams said he investigated both drivers' movements during the evening of Sept. 30 and the early morning hours of Oct. 1. He said Vogel was on duty and her log sheet made that half of his task simple.

Meixner left his workplace, Crown Automotive, at 9:41 p.m. Sept. 30 and drove to Cerro Gordo, where he stopped briefly at the homecoming football game, Williams said. Meixner then went to the American Legion, where he drank rum and Coke with a friend before taking the friend home to Lovington, he said.

Meixner next drove to a Maroa tavern to meet another friend, arriving just before midnight, and the two men had more drinks, Williams said. The pair then drove to an Illiopolis tavern, where Meixner consumed more rum and Coke until the tavern closed at 3 a.m., when he drove his friend back to Maroa, he said.

The friend urged Meixner to spend the night at his house, noting his speech was slurred, Williams said, but Meixner wanted to drive to his mother's house in Decatur and left about 3:30 a.m., he said. The crash followed.

Ron Ingram can be reached at ringram@herald-review.com or 421-7973.