The mother of a northern Illinois man killed last month by border patrol agents in Montana said she believes he would never have harmed the agents, whom officials said shot him in self-defense.

Jeffery Suddeth, 36, who had bipolar disorder and was on parole for a theft conviction, was shot to death Oct. 21 by U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents a few miles from the Canadian border, authorities said.

Advertisement

Authorities said Suddeth refused to cooperate when an agent stopped him because he was driving a truck with Illinois license plates in an isolated part of northern Montana. He was shot after he moved to pull something--later determined to be a stun gun--from his back pocket, authorities said.

Suddeth's mother, Linda Watts, said she and her husband plan to attend a coroner's inquest on her son's death next week in the Glacier County Courthouse in Cut Bank, Mont., to try to learn more about how her son died. She also wants to convey the message that Suddeth would not have intended to hurt the border agents.

Advertisement

"I know in my heart that he would want me to do this for him," said Watts, of Oregon, Ill., southwest of Rockford.

Watts said that because of bipolar disorder--which causes severe mood swings--Suddeth "probably didn't know what to do" when agents stopped him.

Watts said she was uncertain why Suddeth, who she hadn't seen in several weeks, had traveled to Montana. However, a Wisconsin friend with whom he had been staying in the weeks before his death told Watts and authorities that Suddeth, an avid fisherman and hunter, left with a bow and arrows and a few fishing poles.

"He always wanted to go to Alaska and work on a fishing boat," Watts said.

Authorities said Suddeth acted suspiciously the day he died.

After he was stopped, Suddeth sped off when asked for identification, said Glacier County Undersheriff Jeff Fauque. The agent ended the pursuit but called other officers to watch for Suddeth, said Fauque, whose department is investigating.

A second agent spotted Suddeth and pursued him until the truck he was driving stopped in a field about 2 miles from the border, Fauque said. When the agent caught up with Suddeth, he was taking things out of the truck, which one of the agents had determined was stolen.

The agent told Suddeth to get down, but Suddeth stayed standing, not responding except by making the sign of the cross and tracing a circle on his chest, Fauque said. With three agents on the scene, Suddeth pulled the stun gun from his back pocket and pointed it at the officers, Fauque said.

Advertisement

At the time of the shooting, Ted Denning, the area's acting chief border protection agent, released a statement saying the agents shot Suddeth "in an act of self-defense." Agency officials declined to comment further until local authorities complete their investigation.

Watts said she was unhappy it took more than three days after the shooting for her to be notified of her son's death. But the only identification Suddeth had on him at the time he died belonged to his friend in Wisconsin, and Fauque said that made identifying him more difficult.

"I understand the grief, and I am compassionate about it," said Fauque, who helped identify Suddeth. "We worked as quickly as we could. But you don't want to go knock on somebody's door [and tell them about a death] if you can't confirm it."

----------

lford@tribune.com