MARION - A Marion police officer used justifiable force when he shot and killed an armed man during a domestic disturbance last month, according to Williamson County State's Attorney Charles Garnati.

During a press conference Tuesday morning, Garnati said after much consideration he decided not to pursue criminal prosecution of Angelo Hightower, the officer involved in the shooting Nov. 2 that resulted in the death of Russell Campbell, 35.

Garnati cited an Illinois state statute that states that an "officer is justified in using force likely to cause death or great bodily harm only when he reasonably believes that such force is necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm to himself or another person."

Garanti said a civil lawsuit could still be pursued by the family.

The shooting took place in the living room of Campbell's parents' home after his father called 911 to report a domestic disturbance.

"Based on all of the information and knowledge that I have, I do not believe Officer Hightower acted unreasonably under the circumstances at the time of the shooting, Garnati said.

"Therefore my decision is that Officer Hightower's conduct was a justifiable use of force taken to protect both himself and the other officers, and probably most importantly, Mr. and Mrs. Campbell."

Garnati said he reached his "very difficult decision" after reviewing reports from Illinois State Police who investigated the shooting at the behest of the Marion Police Department. He also met personally with Campbell's parents, Bill and Paulette, and allowed the couple to review the ISP report.

Garnati said he visited the Campbell home and asked the Campbells to recall their memories of the incident, including "where all persons were situated in the room and what was said and done at the time of the shooting."

"A human life has been taken. I consider this decision today to be of the utmost importance," Garnati said. "I took all this information and knowledge home with me over the weekend. I thoroughly reviewed all of it a second time. I thought about it all weekend. I did a lot of soul searching and I hope and pray that I've reached the proper decision.

Among the factors Garnati considered, he said, were several key factors that were not in dispute and include:

- Campbell, 6-foot-1, had a blood alcohol level of .35 and was brandishing two kitchen knives. He held the knives by the handles, one in each hand;

- Hightower tested negative for alcohol or other drugs;

- Police were called to the residence by Campbell's father, who reported his son's erratic behavior. Campbell had a history of alcohol abuse and violent behavior that was common knowledge to those in the Marion Police Department;

- Hightower and another officer on the scene "clearly ordered Russell Campbell, at least two or three times, maybe more, to drop the knives."

Campbell ignored officers' requests as well as his mother's pleas to drop the weapons.

Most importantly, Garnati said, both the officers and Campbell's parents were "in danger of being stabbed by Russell Campbell, either intentionally or accidentally. Mrs. Campbell was a mere foot from Russell, (the other officer) was probably three to four feet from Russell, Mr. Campbell was probably five to six feet from Russell."

Hightower was some seven to 17 feet from Campbell, he said, when the shooting took place. Garnati said Hightower had other options, but those options were not guaranteed to end the standoff peaceably and could have resulted in death or great bodily harm to a police officer or Campbell's parents.

Garnati read a passage from an interview with Bill Campbell shortly after the incident that he said helped confirm his belief that Russell Campbell posed a potentially deadly threat. "He (Russell) came into our living room to the edge of our couch and he was … he had the knives and I, my wife had a hold of him, trying to get him to calm down. And I was yelling at her and also the police was yelling at her, to get back because we all thought that she might actually really get hurt," Garnati read. "And finally she did step back but at about the same time she stepped back is when two shots were fired and he fell right at my wife's feet."

"Our police officers are human beings who can not foretell the future. And unfortunately, they're not equipped with crystal balls. They are very brave people who put their lives on the line every day to protect you and me and our families," Garnati said. "Officer Hightower had to make a split-second decision. I believe that under the circumstances that split-second decision was not unreasonable and that it would be an injustice to prosecute Officer Hightower under these circumstances."

Garnati expressed his sympathy for the Campbell family and said he believes Russell Campbell was a "good man with a good heart who loved his family. But he was a very troubled man whose own actions on the night of Nov. 2, 2005, led to his death. Finally, my heart literally aches for Mr. and Mrs. Campbell and their family and friends. I have personally witnessed the grief and pain that they have endured and are still enduring."

Marion Police Chief Ron Swafford said he agreed with Garnati's decision not to seek action against Hightower. "This is a tragic situation. We were hoping the investigation would have an outcome that showed he (Hightower) took actions that were appropriate, even though the result was very tragic," he said.

Swafford said many people have questioned him regarding the use of force by officers and whether more training is necessary. "Many people have asked me about Tasers. Why couldn't we use Tasers? Well, there are pros and cons with Tasers. The same with pepper spray. Nothing is effective in every situation. Every situation is different," Swafford said. "You always try to look for ways to better law enforcement, whether it's equipment or other tools that will improve law enforcement efforts, and we will continue to do that."

Swafford said Hightower will return to work as soon as possible.

Attempts to reach the Campbell family Tuesday were unsuccessful.

(618) 927-5633