Durango – A shotgun-wielding man killed Sunday after leading authorities on a high-speed chase on a winding mountain highway was identified Monday as Manuel Meastas, 23, of Grand Junction.

Meastas died from a single gunshot to the head following the 27-mile chase on hair-raising U.S. 550 between Ouray and Durango, officials said.

“The ultimate use of lethal force by Undersheriff (Mike) McQueen was without question justified,” 6th Judicial District Attorney Craig Westberg said in a statement.

The episode started near Ridgway when a state park ranger tried to pull over a man wearing a ski mask and driving erratically, Westberg said. The man escaped local authorities near Ouray, fleeing over Red Mountain Pass toward Silverton.

Deputy John Jacobs attempted to intercept the vehicle just after 4 p.m. on U.S. 550 north of Silverton, according to the San Juan County Sheriff’s Office. But Meastas’ flight continued at speeds greater than 75 mph along the narrow highway known as the San Juan Skyway.

The flight jeopardized the safety of several civilian drivers, Westberg said. Two attempts to disable Meastas’ car by throwing a spiked chain across the highway failed, he said.

Westberg provided the following account of the chase:

Jacobs, joined by McQueen and State Trooper Todd Martin, briefly contained Meastas’ vehicle just north of Coal Bank Hill.

Martin got out of his patrol car to approach the suspect, but Meastas drove directly at the trooper, who jumped out of the way. Martin fired his weapon but missed.

The chase continued to a big turn at Cascade Creek, where Meastas fired his 12-gauge pump shotgun at Jacobs and missed, officials said.

Meastas lost control of his vehicle and came to a brief stop facing north. He then drove toward Jacobs, who fired but missed.

Meastas soon turned onto a nearby U.S. Forest Service access road, which Jacobs and McQueen knew was a dead end. Fearing an ambush, the officers left their cars and followed on foot.

McQueen saw Meastas drive his car into woods off the road. Meastas was standing behind his car, its trunk open, and he was wearing a bulletproof vest, Westberg said.

McQueen approached with his .45-caliber gun drawn and pointed it at Meastas.

Meastas complied with a request to put his hands in the air but then reached into his open trunk, grabbed the shotgun and aimed it at McQueen, officials said.

The undersheriff fired once at Meastas’ head, killing him instantly at about 4:15 p.m.

A 6th Judicial District Critical Incident Team, led by Colorado Bureau of Investigation Agent Kirby Lewis, is examining the use of lethal force.

“I am convinced the basic operative facts of this case will not change appreciably,” Westberg said. “I am therefore in a position to now state that the officers involved in this case behaved bravely and comported themselves with great restraint until called upon to defend themselves.”

Westberg said Meastas had a long criminal history and active arrest warrants for failing to appear on charges involving concealed weapons and drugs in El Paso and Mesa counties.

An autopsy report and toxicology results will not be available for at least a week, officials said.

Staff writer Electa Draper can be reached at 970-385-0917 or edraper@denverpost.com.