The man shot to death by Chicago police during a drug investigation Monday night at the Robert Taylor Homes was a convicted murderer and drug dealer who was on parole, police said Tuesday.

Ronald Terry, 37, had wrestled away the gun of a uniformed officer when the officer's partner shot him in the lower back, police spokesman Pat Camden said. Terry, whose last known address was in the 4300 block of South Michigan Avenue, died in Cook County Hospital.

Advertisement

Community activists, Chicago Housing Authority residents and friends of Terry, a man they knew as "Peabo," protested the shooting Tuesday, contending he had been killed by police after he was handcuffed and no longer a threat. But none of them said they had witnessed the shooting.

Camden said police handcuffed Terry after the shooting, for their safety, and another officer used pepper spray on an unruly crowd that quickly formed outside the building.

Advertisement

Two uniformed officers entered the building at 4525 S. Michigan Ave. to look for drug dealers at 3:30 p.m. Monday. As three other officers approached the building to join them, lookouts sounded the alarm that police were in the area, Camden said.

"Two subjects (Terry and his cousin) ran into the north end of the first floor hallway and the two officers, who came down a stairwell, confronted Ronald Terry and the other man," Camden said. "Terry threw $460 in cash into the officer's face and attempted to escape."

Camden said Terry struggled with one officer as the officer's partner restrained the other man. During the scuffle, Terry allegedly disarmed the officer, who told his partner, "He's got my gun, he's got my gun," Camden said.

"His partner, in fear for his life and his partner's life used deadly force," Camden said.

Police found 50 small bags of suspected rock cocaine on Terry, Camden said. The shooting remains under investigation, but preliminary findings are that the officer's decision to use deadly force was proper, Camden said.

Terry was convicted of murder and sentenced to 20 years in prison in 1981, Camden said. In 1992, he was sentenced to 2 years in prison for drug possession, and in 1995, he received a 3-year sentence for another drug conviction. Last year, he was sentenced to 18 months in prison for theft and was on parole from that charge, Camden said.