A transsexual woman stopped breathing during a melee with sheriff’s deputies at the downtown jail Nov. 17 and died after four days on life support, authorities confirmed yesterday.

The determination of the cause of death is pending while the Medical Examiner’s Office awaits toxicology results. Details from the preliminary autopsy report were not released.

“There is nothing to indicate that the use of force caused this death,” said Sgt. Rick Empson, a sheriff’s homicide investigator.

Advertisement

Vanessa Facen, 35, had fought with deputies and medical personnel numerous times since she was found naked and bleeding inside her neighbor’s townhome in Spring Valley about 5:30 a.m. Nov. 17, the Sheriff’s Department said.

The neighbors told deputies Facen apparently climbed onto the balcony of their duplex on Terracina Circle near Ildica Way. She dived through their glass door and tumbled down a flight of stairs.

Facen, who was “covered with blood from head to toe,” opened the door for deputies, told them she was HIV-positive and appeared to be cooperating, Sgt. Paul Robbins of the Lemon Grove Sheriff’s station said.

She became enraged en route to a hospital, broke free from her leg restraints and kicked out the window of the ambulance, he said.

Paramedics and hospital staff sedated her several times over several hours. She was treated for multiple cuts and released to deputies later that day.

Empson said she became violent again after leaving the hospital and kicked out the window of a patrol car.

He said an unknown number of deputies fought with Facen when she was inside the intake area of the downtown jail known as a “sally port.”

Empson said it was during that struggle that deputies noticed Facen had stopped breathing and called for an ambulance.

Although Facen had breasts and lived as a woman, the Sheriff’s Department was treating her as a man because she had male genitalia, Lt. Tom Bennett said.

Facen’s family learned of the incident after she died Nov. 21. They said they were stunned because she had no history of violence or mental health problems.

The family said they’ve received little information about the circumstances of Facen’s death.

The Sheriff’s Department had not made news of her death public until yesterday because of a “miscommunication” about who was handling the news release, Bennett said.

Facen, who was born male in St. Louis, had lived as a woman for about 15 years, her mother said.

Diane Facen said she was thankful that she was able to be with her daughter shortly after she died.

“I just put my hand on her and rubbed her shoulders,” she said. “I spent time with her crying and talking to her. I think we’ll have some closure when we figure out what made her act the way she did.”