HUNDREDS OF MOURNERS streamed into the Rivera Funeral Home on St. Nicholas Ave. in Washington Heights last night to pay their respects to Ismael Rodriguez. Rodriguez, a popular fixture in his trademark full-length green Army coat, died Monday after falling into a coma nearly two weeks ago when an unmarked police car struck him as he walked across a street. The incident has left the closely knit neighborhood around W. 135th St. in an uproar. Everyone knows it was a terrible accident, but many residents are outraged at how the NYPD has handled the whole affair. The dead man's family claims the Police Department is covering up the real facts. Several people who saw the accident and spoke with me this week back up that claim. Family members say that during nearly two weeks that Rodriguez was hospitalized, no police official contacted them to express condolences or to explain what happened. The only sign of official remorse came yesterday when the Hispanic detective who drove the car briefly visited the funeral home, and, visibly shaken, prayed by the coffin. NYPD investigators, however, spent days trying to dig up dirt on the dead man, neighbors say. The report the cops produced says the victim may have been drinking alcohol before he was hit, a source said. West 135th St. is a big, busy street. There are several drug-dealing spots and more than a few unsavory characters. Rodriguez was one of the decent ones, a 57-year-old widower from a large family of working-class Puerto Ricans who came here in the 1960s. He was the superintendent of a nearby building, and a devout Christian who had never been known to touch alcohol. "The only thing he had a weakness for was black coffee," said Hector Ortega, a nephew. "These lies from the cops are like pouring salt on the wound.

" The police version of the accident is as follows: Around 7:30 p.

Advertisement

m. on Sept. 20, three undercover cops assigned to an anti-gang unit were heading west on 135th St. between Broadway and Amsterdam in an unmarked 1997 black Pathfinder. They were traveling no more than 30 mph. They noticed a man standing in the middle of the street on the yellow divider line. As they attempted to pass, he suddenly backed into their vehicle's path and was hit. Several witnesses, according to investigators, noticed a gray car speeding east, which may explain why Rodriguez suddenly backed up - to avoid being hit by that car. But the witnesses I spoke to differ sharply with that account. One is the dead man's sister, Domitilia Rodriguez, who was watching her brother cross the street from her fourth-floor window on the block. "I had just telephoned him and invited him over for coffee," she said. Domitilia says she saw a black car suddenly race up the street from Amsterdam Ave. The car had no lights flashing or sirens blaring. Most important, its headlights were off. The car struck her brother at full speed, threw him into the air and kept going for another 100 feet or so before it stopped and back up. She saw no gray car. Jesus Rodriguez (no relation to the dead man) was standing with friends at a bodega near Amsterdam Ave. He and several of those with him said they saw the Pathfinder make a sharp turn onto 135th St. and speed down the block. He, too, says the car had no lights on. He says there was no gray car. Angelo Feneque, another nephew, who was returning from college classes, was the first family member to reach Rodriguez. "My uncle was still conscious, he was struggling to breathe. He was bleeding from his ears and the back of his head was bathed in blood. He grabbed my hand.

" Feneque, too, said the headlights were off. The impact of the accident destroyed the driver's side headlight, he said, severely damaged the bumper and hood and tore the driver's side window right off the car. When asked about the headlights, Deputy Police Commissioner Tom Antenen said the report said nothing about that. "This was a sad and unfortunate accident," he said, but "the cops did nothing wrong.

Advertisement

" THAT WILL BE up to a jury. The family has retained a lawyer, Ted Del Valle, who has filed a notice of claim against the city. "We don't care so much about the money," Feneque said. "But they didn't even have the decency to send an official to say, 'We're sorry.

' Some of these cops don't even look at us as humans.

"