Two Midlothian police officers shot and killed a Dixmoor man who, officials say, pointed a gun at the officers after he crawled through the drive-up window of a doughnut shop and pistol-whipped two employees.

Police said Bobby Pounds, who turned 21 Sunday, began to leave the Dunkin' Donuts at 14631 Pulaski Rd. in Midlothian with his handgun drawn about 11:15 p.m. Sunday, leaving officers no choice but to fire at him.

Advertisement

But the department's first police shooting in at least 16 years had members of Pounds' family and local pastors asking questions about the use of deadly force and police policy.

Pounds entered the shop through the drive-through window and demanded that two male employees get cash from the store's safe, police Sgt. Harold Kaufman said. During the stickup Pounds beat both men with his handgun, but one of the employees managed to escape the shop and flag down a squad car, officials said.

Advertisement

The two officers from the squad car approached the building and saw Pounds beating the other employee, Kaufman said. Pounds walked out of the store but saw police and pointed his gun at the officers, officials said.

Several shots were fired at Pounds, breaking three glass panes at the doughnut shop and striking him, officials said.

Pounds died about an hour later in Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, police said. An autopsy revealed that he died of multiple gunshot wounds, and his death was ruled a homicide, according to a Cook County medical examiner's spokesman.

The employee who flagged down police was injured in the incident but did not require hospital attention, Kaufman said. The other employee was taken to St. Francis Hospital in Blue Island, where he was treated and released.

The Illinois State Police will investigate the incident through its Public Integrity Task Force, as is required by department procedure, Kaufman said and a state police spokesman confirmed.

Pounds' family and local church leaders hope that the investigation will answer some important questions they have about the fatal shooting of the father of two young boys.

"Was this excessive force?" Bishop Lance Davis of New Zion Christian Fellowship in Dolton asked at a news conference.

"We want for our officers to be protected, to feel safe. But they are trained to take down, not take out," added Davis, who said Pounds had attended his church on a few occasions.

Advertisement

Davis said Pounds' family members have requested to view the tapes of the incident, in part to know how many bullets were fired at the man, who they say was a scrawny 6 feet, 140 pounds.

Police officials refused to say how many shots were fired and could not be reached later in the day for comment on the questions posed by the family.

Family members described Pounds as a mild-mannered family man who cared for his grandmother and was planning on starting a construction venture with his older brother, DeAndre Moore of Harvey.

"To see something like this happen, it blows me away," said Moore, 22.

----------

trybarczyk@tribune.com