KEARNEY - Two Kearney police officers were simply looking for a holiday meal when they stopped by the Good Samaritan Hospital emergency room early Christmas morning.

They didn't know they'd soon be making a life-and-death decision.

A Buffalo County grand jury cleared Officers Tony Cordova and Mike Bogard of any wrongdoing in the Christmas morning death of Derrick Jacobs, 29, of Kearney. Early Friday afternoon, jurors issued a no true bill - meaning they did not find reason to charge Cordova or Bogard and found that there was no criminal conduct on the officers' part.

Kearney Police Department Chief Dan Lynch identified Cordova and Bogard as the officers involved in the shooting.

At about 3:30 a.m. Christmas morning Jacobs sought medical attention at the ER for an undisclosed condition, Lynch said. Cordova and Bogard were near the ER in a break room where police and hospital staff have a meal for holiday workers.

"They were simply up there visiting with staff and eating soup," Lynch said of the officers.

Jacobs became disruptive and threatened the medical staff. The officers responded.

Several other people were being treated in the ER at the time, Lynch said, although he wasn't sure how many. He was unsure how many medical personnel were in the area.

"People assume we know a lot, but we don't," Lynch said of the incident. "Our role has been very minimal."

The conversation between the officers and Jacobs was short, Lynch said, and Jacobs wouldn't communicate with officers. Armed with a steak knife, Jacobs advanced toward the officers and refused to drop the knife.

Cordova shot Jacobs twice in the chest. Only those two shots were fired. The incident took less than 90 seconds. Jacobs's motivation was unknown.

"The officers didn't have any choice, I believe," Lynch said.

Cordova declined to comment, and Bogard couldn't be reached for comment. Both officers remained on duty during the investigation.

It took the grand jury eight hours to hear the evidence in the case and make a decision. By law, the decision had to be made with the support of 12 of the 16 grand jurors.

Special prosecutor Charles Brewster of Kearney refused to comment on the case.

"I can't," he said. "If I could, I would."

State law mandates that a grand jury be called when someone dies while being apprehended by law enforcement officers or while in their custody. The grand jury investigation is not public. According to law, all those involved with the investigation, including jurors, the bailiff, judge, court reporter, witnesses and special prosecutor, are sworn to secrecy.

The investigation was conducted jointly by a coalition called SCALES, South-Central Area Law Enforcement Services. The coalition includes the Nebraska State Patrol; sheriffs' departments in Buffalo, Hall, Adams and Dawson counties; and police departments in Kearney, Grand Island and Hastings.

Buffalo County Attorney Shawn Eatherton said Jacobs's blood alcohol level at the time of the shooting was approximately .10. The legal limit to drive is .08. Toxicology reports revealed Jacobs didn't have any other substances in his system.

The shooting will be reviewed internally, Lynch said, and the department's policy will be reviewed. It's been 20 years since the department had a grand jury investigation.

Cordova is a 10½-year veteran of the department. He has served as a street officer and was an investigator for four years. He is one of the department's 10 field training officers in charge of teaching new recruits the department's standards and procedures.

Cordova also is a member of the Emergency Services Unit team and a firearms instructor.

As an investigator, he was in charge of the 2001 Anne Sluti case and the 2001-2002 Bobby Kersting serial rapist case. In 2002, Cordova, KPD and other state and federal investigating agencies were honored by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children for their work in Sluti's kidnapping case.

Bogard, a former University of Nebraska at Kearney Public Safety officer and a six-year veteran of KPD. He is also a field-training officer and a member of the ESU rifle team as well as a member of the fatality accident investigation team.

e-mail to: