Jeff Murray

jmurray@stargazette.com | @SGJeffMurray

Authorities believe Jonathan Harrison died of exposure

Harrison’s body was found not far from Southern Tier Auto Recycling, where he worked

Harrison had a criminal record but police only wanted him for leaving the scene of an accident

Police are still trying to figure out why a Corning man fled the scene of an accident, only to be found dead the next day.

Joshua S. Harrison, 25, of Corning, struck another vehicle on Decatur Street around 10 p.m. Thursday and left the scene, city police said.

Police had a description of the car and the license plate and an officer spotted Harrison’s vehicle on Reynolds Avenue some time after midnight. When the officer attempted to make a stop, Harrison fled in his car, according to Lt. Jeff Spaulding.

A chase led into Schuyler County, where the Schuyler County Sheriff’s Office got involved.

But Harrison wasn’t caught.

Family members found his body on Friday in a wooded area in the Town of Orange in Schuyler County, about two miles from where his car was found on Doane Road.

Almost a week later, police still have no idea what prompted Harrison to flee in the first place.

“The only thing we were looking at him for was the accident. There was no reason for him to run,” Spaulding said. “There were no drugs or weapons in his car. There were no outstanding crimes. He was not running from a robbery. The only thing we had him for was leaving scene of a motor vehicle accident. That and his license was suspended in New York.”

Harrison likely died of exposure, but there probably will not be an autopsy, said Schuyler County Sheriff William Yessman. Last Friday’s overnight low was about 12 degrees.

The county coroner must decide on the autopsy and he has indicated he probably wouldn’t ask for one, Yessman said.

The sheriff’s office assisted with the initial chase but was not involved in the recovery of the body, Yessman added.

“(Deputies) followed him for about a mile through the snow and down into Southern Tier Auto Recycling, where he worked,” he said.

“We followed up the next day. If we got a notice that he never made it home or if family had reported to us, we would have been right back out there. We had never received any notification that he was missing or they were going to search for him. We had no contact with the family.”

Harrison did have a criminal history. Most recently, he spent time in prison for assaulting an officer who responded to a petit larceny complaint at Wegmans in Corning, Spaulding said.

Harrison spent more than two years at Wyoming Correctional Facility and was released last summer, according to the state Department of Corrections and Community Supervision.

He was not on parole at the time of his death, Spaulding said.

Carpenter’s Funeral Home is handling arrangements. Calling hours will be held from 5 to 7 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 12, at Central Baptist Church, 11791 East Corning Road in Corning. A funeral service will follow at 7 p.m.

Follow Jeff Murray on Twitter @SGJeffMurray.