Staff Writer

The Patriot Ledger

The lawyer representing the mother of a teen who was shot and killed by Plymouth police five years ago says the boy was driving away from officers, not at them, when they shot him dead.

Two police officers, Richard T. Tavares and Edwin F. Almeida, fired a total of 11 shots at Anthony McGrath, 16, of Plymouth, on Jan. 10, 2006. McGrath was struck in the back, right side and elbow, police said.

Plymouth County District Attorney Timothy Cruz ruled that the shooting was justified because McGrath drove at the officers and ignored their repeated orders for him to stop and get out of the car.

But in documents filed in federal court in Boston last week, lawyer Paul J. Driscoll of Marshfield disputes whether under the circumstances warranted “the use of any deadly force at all was or could have been reasonable, necessary or justified.”

McGrath’s mother, Denise McGrath, filed suit against Tavares, Almeida, former Plymouth Police Chief Robert J. Pomeroy and the town in January 2009.

The two officers were responding to a burglar alarm at a liquor store at about 3:30 a.m. when Almeida saw McGrath driving a Toyota Camry in the area and tried to pull him over. McGrath kept driving, prompting a pursuit, which Tavares joined as it went down small side streets to Water Street, where the Camry crashed into a stone wall.

The officers got out of their cruisers and ordered McGrath out of the Camry. Police said McGrath ignored their orders, put the car in reverse and backed toward the officers, and then drove forward at them, prompting the shooting.

The suit asserts that the teen, frightened and unarmed, was driving away from the officers.

One of the attorneys for the police officers, Austin M. Joyce of Worcester, said Thursday that he would not comment on the ongoing case.

Driscoll says in court papers that Almeida gave conflicting reasons for trying to stop McGrath. The officer said at first that the Camry ran a red light and turned from North Park Avenue onto Court Street.

Later, during the investigation into the shooting, Almeida said he stopped the car for the red-light violation and because it was in the vicinity of the liquor store where the break-in had occurred, court papers say.

Later still, in a deposition, Almeida added that the Camry had only one license plate and that it had failed to yield to his oncoming cruiser with its blue lights on, Driscoll says in the court papers.

A witness, Jack Sullivan, a former editor at The Patriot Ledger, told State Police from the Plymouth County district attorney’s office who were investigating the shooting that the traffic signal was green when the Camry turned onto Court Street. Ultimately, Almeida “came to learn the light had been green but never corrected his official report,” Driscoll said.

Driscoll also raises issues with part of Tavares’ account of the pursuit. In a deposition, Tavares said he encountered the Camry at Water and Winslow streets and had to take evasive action to avoid a collision. But Driscoll said a deposition given by Almeida shows that the Camry and Tavares’ cruiser came nowhere near each other.

The new documents dispute Tavares’ statement that he was in the Camry’s path after it struck the stone wall, and they point out that the fatal shot entered the car through the front passenger-door window. “Tavares was not in the path of the Camry and considered himself to be out of the danger zone,” Driscoll said.

Driscoll also questions Almeida’s assertion that he was in danger of injury or death. “Asked where he was standing at the time in relation to the Camry, Almeida said in front of the vehicle, ‘somewhere,’” Driscoll said.

Almeida has acknowledged that his first two shots were fired perpendicular to the Camry, striking the hood as the Toyota went by him. He could not say where his other five shots went.

OLDER STORIES

Mom disputes Plymouth police in teen's death

Mother sues Plymouth police over fatal shooting

Newly released documents paint frenzied story of Plymouth chase, shooting

DA: Teen in shooting drove through red light

DA rules Plymouth police shooting justified

Plymouth police say officers can shoot at moving cars

Police see choice as their lives or the suspect's

The fatal shooting and aftermath: A chronology

Police tape: First a reported break-in, then a chase and shooting

Police tape: 'This guy’s running on me’

Friends honor memory of McGrath

Autopsy: Shot to chest killed teen suspect

Slain teen’s mom wants answers

Police experts say firing at cars usually bad idea

Kin struggle to understand death of ‘good kid’ who lost way

16-year-old shot to death by police