Skip to comments.

DA backs cop in shooting

Times Leader ^ | 1/14/2006 | DAVID WEISS

Posted on by Born Conservative

WILKES-BARRE (PA) – Seconds after robbing a Carey Avenue convenience store, a gun-toting Paul Appnel stormed out of the store, but was confronted by a police officer.

Appnel, 42, ignored veteran officer Brett Smith’s commands to stop, pointing his pistol at Smith and running up Division Street toward a stashed vehicle, according to investigators.

Then Smith gave chase.

A defiant Appnel kept turning at Smith, pointing his pistol at him.

It led to Smith firing 10 shots at Appnel as he reached his vehicle on Keith Street in Hanover Township. Appnel sped off.

He didn’t make it far.

His car was found abandoned along Interstate 81 in Wilkes-Barre Township. Appnel was found nearby, wounded. His weapon, a starter pistol, was found feet away from him.

He died a short time later.

That was the scenario that played out early Friday morning after Appnel’s robbery of the Turkey Hill Minit Market on Carey Avenue, investigators said.

Luzerne County District Attorney David Lupas said it appears Smith, a 12-year veteran of the force, acted appropriately in firing his .40-Beretta at Appnel, of Duryea.

Lupas said his office and the state police will continue to investigate before rendering an official determination.

The incident started about 3:20 a.m. According to Lupas, city police Chief Gerry Dessoye, and state police Lt. Frank Hacken: Smith was on patrol when he saw Appnel acting suspiciously at different locations throughout the city in the early morning hours. Smith again became curious when he saw Appnel lurking around the convenience store. Smith believed Appnel was going to rob the store, so Smith positioned his patrol car at a location where he would be able to see inside.

He saw Appnel go in and pull a gun on the clerk. Smith called for backup and went to the store’s front door.

That’s when Appnel came out and ignored Smith’s directives to stop, leading to the foot chase, with Appnel repeatedly aiming the pistol at Smith.

“He’d turn and point, turn and point,” Lupas said. Also according to the investigators: Appnel continued running and got into his car parked in a hidden location on nearby Keith Street.

Again, he ignored Smith’s plea to stop and pointed the weapon at the officer.

Smith fired again, but Appnel sped off.

About 25 minutes later, state police received reports that a vehicle was abandoned along the interstate. They found Appnel nearby. He was taken to Scranton Community Medical Center and died.

Smith has been put on administrative leave, in accordance with department policy.

Lupas did not say how many times Appnel was shot. An autopsy was scheduled for Friday afternoon, but acting Coroner William Lisman was unavailable for comment. All of his wounds appeared to be “frontal wounds,” Hacken said.

The investigators said the starter pistol’s appearance is strikingly similar to a real gun. The store’s clerk also believed the gun was real, they said.

“If I was looking down the barrel of that I would think I was being threatened with a real gun,” Lupas said. State law considers any device, even a fake gun, to be a firearm if it is used to “instill belief” that it is a real gun, Lupas said.

Not only does Lupas believe Smith acted appropriately in firing at Appnel, he, with Dessoye and Hacken, commended Smith’s work.

“The officer did a very good job in recognizing that a robbery was about to occur,” Hacken said.

No customers were inside the store.

Appnel was known to police, specifically city narcotics agents, and had signs of a controlled substance in his blood stream, Hacken and Dessoye said. Hacken did not disclose the type of substance.

Court papers filed in a past arrest of Appnel indicated a history of drug abuse.

Appnel, who has a number of prior arrests, was charged by city police in 2002 with driving under the influence of a controlled substance.

Police said he was driving a Ford Mustang the wrong way on a one-way street. Police stopped the vehicle but Appnel ran. He was apprehended and told police he was using heroin and another drug. Blood and urine test showed Appnel had cocaine and another drug in his system.

He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 48 hours to one year in prison.



TOPICS:

Crime/Corruption

KEYWORDS:

appnel

banglist

donutwatch

leo



Related story here , about the perp being charged with stealing steak from a local market (most likely to get money to buy drugs), and not appearing for his hearing. The problem of Appnel's propensity towards crime is now solved.

To: Born Conservative

The starter's pistol may not have been an effective weapon as far as guns go, but everytime he fired it he kept running faster.



To: Born Conservative

10 shots and the perp drove away, was found 25 minutes later and died [still later] in the hospital? Range time!



To: Born Conservative

"He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 48 hours to one year in prison."



48 hours???



If this were New York, you would only have to serve 2/3's of the MINIMUM sentence before being paroled which means he would 'paroled' out of jail in about 31 hours.



Some 'sentence'.



by 4 posted onby Bigh4u2 (Denial is the first requirement to be a liberal)

To: Born Conservative

One less piece of garbage to deal with...



To: Born Conservative

If it looks like a gun and someone points it at me, I'm going to take it very seriously. My gun doesn't shoot blanks.



by 6 posted onby SWAMPSNIPER (MAY I DIE ON MY FEET IN MY SWAMP)

To: GSlob

people must be looking for some sort of penace if they're commiting suicide by cop. sounds like the perp went thru significant agony before expiring.



by 7 posted onby absolootezer0 ("My God, why have you forsaken us.. no wait, its the liberals that have forsaken you... my bad")

To: absolootezer0

It's not about the perp [human waste anyway], it is about the officer Brett Smith's shooting skills. 40S&W, 10 shots, in all probability hollowpoints - looks like there were preciously few hits. As the officer Smith might have to shoot some other perp later, for the sake of both the aforesaid officer and of the rest of us it would be better if he went through a few thousand rounds on the range.



To: GSlob

That's a pretty big assumption given there are no details about the actual chase and how each shot was fired. It's a whole different situation when someone is running and potentially firing a weapon at you than standing shooting at a fixed target on a closed range where you know what lies beyond your intended target. I think the officer did pretty well considering the given information. Bad Guy dead, good guy alive = good day.



To: GSlob

When you are both running, and dodging flying bullets, I'd say the Police Officer did an outstanding job taking the perp down as it happened. It is hard as heck to hit a moving target that is moving away from you with a pistol, in the dark! He does not need more practice, just more folks that understand perps and running targets.



To: geezerwheezer

Why "both running"? If shooting at a moving target, shoot from the stationary.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson