KEARNEY - A Buffalo County grand jury has cleared a Ravenna Police Department officer of wrongdoing in the January death of Allan McKeon of Ravenna.

Tuesday afternoon, jurors issued a no true bill - meaning they did not find reason to charge the officer and found that there was no criminal conduct on officers' part, District Court Clerk Sharon Mauler said.

Ravenna Police Chief Tim Shrader identified Dustin Strode as the officer involved in the pursuit. Reserve Officer Matt McHale also was involved in the incident.

McKeon, a Ravenna native, died at about 11:15 p.m. on Jan. 14 after Strode attempted to stop McKeon for erratic driving. Strode observed McKeon run a stop sign at Utica and Grand streets in Ravenna and nearly hit two pedestrians.

McKeon sped away from Strode and lost control of his car, swerved and sheared a light pole off at about three feet.

McKeon was pronounced dead at the scene. The accident was investigated by the Buffalo County Sheriff's Office and the Kearney Police Department.

Citing toxicology reports, Buffalo County Attorney Shawn Eatherton said today McKeon's blood alcohol content at the time of the crash was .338. The legal limit to drive is .08.

Strode has been on the Ravenna department for about three years. He started full-time in May after spending several years part-time while working as a Howard County Sheriff 's deputy. He returned to work about a week after the incident.

It took the grand jury five hours to hear the evidence in the case and make a decision. By law, the decision had to be made with the support of 12 of the 16 jurors.

State law mandates that a grand jury be called when someone dies while being apprehended by law enforcement officers or while in their custody. A grand jury investigation is not public. According to law, all those involved with the investigation, including jurors, the bailiff, judge, court reporter, witnesses and special prosecutor, are sworn to secrecy.

This is the first time in Shrader's 19 years as a law enforcement officer that he has been involved in a grand jury investigation.

He said the department reviews its pursuit policy every year, and he believes the policy is sound.

e-mail to: