A standoff and shootout with police led to the death of a Longview man early Tuesday morning at a home west of town.

Robert Hal Bone, 37, died at St. John Medical Center shortly before 3:30 a.m. Cowlitz County Sheriff's deputies initially responded to a domestic dispute but soon found themselves in an armed standoff and called in the Lower Columbia SWAT team, said Chief Criminal Deputy Charlie Rosenzweig

A deputy and a SWAT team officer returned fire after Bone shot at a deputy, Rosenzweig said.

The deputy was not injured, Rosenzweig said.

Rosenzweig said Bone's wife called 911 at around 10:25 p.m. Monday after she, her children and a grandchild escaped the house in the 100 block of Pioneer Mount Solo Cemetery Road.

"He was threatening to kill (family members) and commit suicide," Rosenzweig said.

Bone's wife told dispatchers that during a heated dispute between the couple, Bone had armed himself with a rifle, Rosenzweig said.

"You hate to see it," Rosenzweig said Tuesday. "But we're sure glad the family got out. We're so glad we didn't have a murder-suicide."

On the Web • Yesterday, readers got in a heated dispute about the ethics of the shooting. • Last year, a coroner labeled a man's shooting death "suicide by cop" after he ended a SWAT standoff by firing at officers. • See the Cowlitz County Sheriff's code of ethics here.

Deputies surrounded the house, which is on a dead-end road across from Mount Solo Cemetery. Sgt. Dave Smith telephoned Bone and tried to persuade him to come out peacefully, Rosenzweig said.

"That went on for hours," Rosenzweig said. "The deputies tried everything they could."

Bone refused and threatened to kill deputies, Rosenzweig said. Bone fired his rifle in the house, smashed objects and "extensively damaged the inside," Rosenzweig said.

Deputies called the Lower Columbia SWAT team and paramedics from Cowlitz 2 Fire & Rescue to the scene.

At about 2 a.m. Bone came out of the house and looked around. Rosenzweig said Bone either saw or heard a deputy in the darkness. There are no street lights on the road. Bone had turned off the house lights, Rosenzweig said.

"He took aim and shot. The deputy was able to dodge for cover and was not struck," Rosenzweig said. He said the deputy was probably about 40 to 60 feet away from Bone.

A SWAT officer and a sheriff's deputy returned fire. Rosenzweig was not prepared to give the number of rounds that hit Bone, pending the autopsy.

Paramedics administered first aid and took Bone to St. John, where he died. An autopsy was planned for Tuesday night.

Bone has no arrest record in Cowlitz County and Rosenzweig was not aware of any previous problems at that address. He did not know where Bone was employed.

The Clark County Regional Major Crimes unit is investigating the case. They spent the entire day Tuesday going over the area, including the cemetery, where evidence markers dotted the grass near the tombstones.

The deputy sheriff and the Lower Columbia SWAT member involved in the shooting have been placed on administrative leave as standard protocol. Their names will not be released until the investigation is complete.