Houston Police Department > News Releases Incident at 605 Frisco January 25, 2006 -- A suspect who fired shots at police officers on two separate occasions was fatally shot by officers at 605 Frisco about 1:30 p.m. on Tuesday (Jan. 24). The suspect is identified as Jesse Isaac Sarabia (H/m, DOB 12-10-69). He was pronounced dead at the scene. Two Harris County Sheriff's deputies and two Houston police officers fired their weapons at Sarabia after he opened fire on the deputies. The lawmen were not injured. The Houston police officers were M.L. Wisnoskie of the North Patrol Division and K.E. Uhlin of the Tactical Operations Division, K-9 Unit. Officer Wisnoskie was sworn in as an HPD officer in August 1983 and Officer Uhlin in September 1995. HPD Homicide Division Sergeant J.R. Swaim and Officer A.D. Brown reported: Harris County deputies and U.S. Marshals assigned to the Gulf Coast Violent Offenders Task Force had gone to 703 Post Street to serve two outstanding felony assault warrants on the suspect, Sarabia. When they arrived, it was determined Sarabia was inside the home. When the officers forced entry, Sarabia fired one time at them with a .38-caliber revolver. The officers then took cover and were able to talk Sarabia out of the house. As he left the home, Sarabia was still holding the pistol in his hand, but was not pointing it at officers. At that time, officers ordered him to drop the pistol, but Sarabia refused and fled on foot. HPD officers and Harris County deputies in the area were notified about the suspect and assisted in searching for him. Sarabia was seen in the backyard of a home at 605 Frisco and officers arrived at that location. Two HPD officers approached Sarabia from the front of the house and the deputies approached him from the back of the house. When the officers approached, Sarabia pointed the pistol at the deputies and began to fire at them. At that time, the officers and deputies returned fire and fatally shot the suspect. As is customary with HPD officer-involved shootings in the city limits, the incident is being investigated by the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's office. JFC/MES 1-25-06

Inc #013033806 For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.