The estate of a man who died after being zapped 20 times with Tasers last year has filed a $6 million federal lawsuit against San Jose police.

Jorge Luis Trujillo’s estate alleges police have not trained officers in the proper use of Tasers, a device that generates 50,000-volt shocks, while failing to administer a “bona fide and meaningful” system to review accusations of officer misconduct or prosecute offending cops.

The lawsuit blames Trujillo’s death on officers who beat him with batons and repeatedly shot him with their Tasers and seeks $3 million for compensatory damages and another $3 million for punitive damages. The plaintiff is identified as Aleyda Maritza Moscoso, a representative for Trujillo’s estate.

Named as defendants are up to 25 unidentified officers, the city and Police Chief Rob Davis. Davis declined to comment Monday, but City Attorney Rick Doyle said the officers did nothing wrong.

“We have always taken the position the police acted properly,” Doyle said. “It’s a tragic case anytime anyone dies under these circumstances.”

Attorney Albie Jachimowicz, who is representing the Trujillo estate, could not be reached for comment.

The events that led up to officers crossing paths with Trujillo began on the evening of Jan. 25, 2006, when dispatchers received a 911 call that a man was being beaten with a baseball bat by a group of men at South 22nd and East San Fernando streets. Another call reported the victim was lying in the street.

When officers arrived they were unable to find any suspects or even the victim. A trail of blood yielded nothing.

About 90 minutes later and a mile away from the scene of the beating, police said they found Trujillo, on the 1200 block of Woodborough Place, covered in blood, smashing cars with a garden hoe.

He refused to cooperate with officers, who were unable to restrain him despite using pepper spray and hitting him with their batons, police said. Officers then used their Tasers to bring him under control.

Later, police would learn Trujillo was the same man who had been beaten with the baseball bat, Doyle said.

Months after Trujillo’s death, a Santa Clara County medical examiner’s autopsy report determined his death was caused by blows to his head suffered before his encounter with police. However, the report also cited the Taser shocks as a contributing factor.

It was the second time that the coroner’s office had labeled Taser shocks as a contributing cause. The first occurred Nov. 18, 2005, when police used Tasers to restrain Jose Angel Rios, a 38-year-old Fresno resident, whose primary cause of death was blamed on obesity, heart disease and drugs.

Nationwide, Tasers have been officially listed as a contributing cause in 12 deaths, said Steve Tuttle of Taser International, a Scottsdale, Ariz.-based manufacturer of the weapons.

Amnesty International USA, which has studied Taser use, has counted 250 cases in which people died after being jolted by a Taser. However, the organization cannot say if Tasers actually caused those deaths.