Posted: 2/9/2006 9:57:21 AM EDT Ok, my son knows one of the investigating officers, they were talking last night and heres what really happened. just as the story goes except when the guy tries to get her gun, her partner ran out of the room yelling for help...an armed officer screaming for help...what a pathetic asshole. he left the girl to fight by herself. In questioning him afterwards he says he doesnt remember anything...well so long asshole....who wants him for a partner??????





Man dies from wounds after struggle with probation officers

JACLYN O'MALLEY

RENO GAZETTE-JOURNAL

Posted: 2/9/2006

advertisement













PROVIDED TO THE RENO GAZETTE-JOURNAL









Man dies from wounds after struggle with probation officers



Man reportedly ignored deputies' pleas



Pollard to run for Incline justice of the peace seat



Supreme Court justice to seek another term



Kingsbury Grade crash results in injuries





advertisement









A scuffle with two probation officers that ended in the death of a Reno convicted felon started when he was told he was going to be jailed for using methamphetamine, authorities said Wednesday.



Christopher Michael Tallman resisted when probation officers Kara Kelly and John Gresock tried to handcuff him after he tested positive for methamphetamines Tuesday at the Nevada Parole and Probation Office at 10 State St., Reno police Lt. Ron Donnelly said.



When Gresock's handcuffs touched Tallman's wrist, he twisted free, tore off Kelly's duty belt and removed her pistol from the holster, Donnelly said.



Kelly, Tallman's probation officer, struggled with him for the gun while Gresock tried to control him, Donnelly said. Tallman, 25, also ripped off Gresock's radio, making him unable to summon for help.



During the struggle for the gun, Kelly fired a shot that struck Tallman in the head. Gresock then left the room to get help, Donnelly said.



Despite his head injury, Tallman continued to fight and was approaching Kelly. Donnelly said Kelly shot him three times in the chest and torso.



Tallman was pronounced dead at Washoe Medical Center.



It was unknown if Tallman was under the influence of methamphetamines at the time of the incident, but he had just given a urine sample that tested positive for meth.



Both officers told Tallman he was going to jail for violating his probation conditions, which required him to abstain from drugs.



Kelly is a seven-year veteran with the Nevada Parole and Probation Division. Gresock has been employed with the agency for one year.



According to police, Tallman was convicted Feb. 2 of being an ex-felon in possession of a firearm. The conviction was related to a November arrest by Reno police. Tallman already had been convicted in Oregon for possession of methamphetamine, resisting arrest and failing to appear in court, according to police.



Earlier this month, Tallman was sentenced to a three-year prison term that was suspended to one year of probation, police said.



Kelly and Gresock were placed on paid routine administrative leave.



Donnelly said the multi-jurisidiction team is continuing its investigation and asked anyone with information to contact authorities. Detectives can be reached at 334-2115 and Secret Witness at 322-4900.

