Maryann Sheehan stands behind her husband, Arlington Heights Police Officer Tim Sheehan, cheerfully retelling his story to one group of high school students after another.

With an upbeat demeanor, she describes the terrifying late-night phone call: Tim has been in an accident. An officer is on his way to take you to the hospital.

Advertisement

From that evening in February 2006 to now, the Sheehan family has endured an ordeal that seemed ready-made for Tuesday's Trauma Day talk at Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge.

The couple reminded visiting sophomores from Notre Dame High School in Niles about safe driving and life's fragility.

Advertisement

"Drive careful," Tim Sheehan warned the teens. "Drive slow. And wear your seat belt. Wearing a seat belt is the one thing that kept me alive."

On that February night, less than an hour into his shift, Tim Sheehan had stopped for a red light at Euclid Avenue and Northwest Highway. Just after the light changed, a car traveling 70 m.p.h. crossed over two lanes and slammed head-on into his patrol car, authorities said.

The other driver, Evangelo Actipis, 35, of Palatine, soon died. His blood-alcohol level was four times the legal limit, authorities said. Officers and paramedics thought Sheehan might not make it either.

At Lutheran General, Sheehan immediately had surgery for a massive head injury, then heart surgery and later multiple operations on his right leg, from his hip to his ankle.

As Tim and Maryann Sheehan talked to the students, Sheehan's parents, Bob and Mary Ann Sheehan of Chicago, listened in the back row. His mother silently wiped away tears.

"Not only did we not know if he was going to survive," Tim's mother said of those first few days, "but we didn't know what condition he would be in, if he survived."

Sheehan, 50, remained unconscious for weeks. When he woke, he had to relearn everything.

The brain injury and a related stroke initially stole his long-term memories and affected his speech.

Advertisement

He forgot the names of his wife and three children, Michael, 24, Mark, 23, and Katie, 18. He called out for quarters when he really wanted pillows. Sheehan likes to joke that he even forgot that his beloved White Sox had won the World Series the previous fall.

"That was the worst part," he said.

Sheehan was hospitalized for three months, then began daily outpatient therapy at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. He learned to walk 100 feet with a walker but is now back in a wheelchair after another operation on his right ankle that he hopes will make walking easier and less painful.

He still struggles with short-term memory loss.

The brain injury also affected his right arm, forcing him to write with his left hand, which he learned to do with ease.

A longtime police sketch artist, he also relearned to draw.

Advertisement

His goal now is to walk again. He also dreams of playing one of the more than 300 bagpipe tunes that he once knew by heart. A pipe sergeant for the Bagpipes and Drums of the Emerald Society, Sheehan also played with the Glengael Bagpipe Band.

Earlier this year, the Arlington Heights Police Department named him the 2006 officer of the year for his 19 years of service.

A large, supportive family has helped the third-generation police officer and brother of two Chicago cops cope.

"What choice do I have?" he said this week while sitting in his family room in Arlington Heights.

"I don't have a choice. Would I like one? Yeah, but I've got to do the best I can with what I've got."

Sheehan, who is on disability, said he probably will retire soon.

Advertisement

His son Michael was getting his master's degree in geochemistry at the time of the accident and has since decided to follow his heart and become a police officer. He has applied to several departments.

"It was the impetus to do something with my life and not stagnate in academia," Michael Sheehan said.

"It provides me with a sense of purpose, and I'm happy to carry on the tradition"

----------

mfergus@tribune.com