A man who was fatally shot by a Tucson police officer at a South Side apartment complex in February had a fairly high level of cocaine in his system, reports show.

DeAngelo Cazares Rivera, 25, had pulled out a handgun during a confrontation and struggle with Tucson Police Department Officer Jeff Stover on Feb. 15, police said, causing the officer to shoot to defend himself.

Cocaine at the level in Rivera's system can cause paranoia and violent behavior, according to the reports, released Wednesday by the Pima County Office of the Medical Examiner.

Stover shot Rivera seven times in the chest and arms, according to the autopsy reports. The report shows there was no evidence of close-range shots.

In March, prosecutors ruled the shooting was justified. An internal Police Department review is ongoing.

The only other witness to the shooting, Rivera's girlfriend, has said Rivera never pulled a gun, but that he did have two guns in his waistband. Police have said her story is not consistent with the evidence.

Earlier the night Rivera was shot, he'd fired two shots through the windshield of his girlfriend's parents' car as she was driving and they argued about their relationship, police said at the time. After they returned to her apartment, in the 6200 block of South Campbell Avenue, someone called 911.

Stover responded and went to the apartment to check on the woman. He found Rivera agitated and tried to calm him, police said. Stover struggled with Rivera when he advanced toward the officer, and Rivera fell and pulled a gun from his waistband, police said.

Stover, sensing his own life was in danger, killed Rivera in front of the woman.

Rivera may have had a history of cocaine use. When he was booked into the Pima County jail on a drug charge after an unrelated investigation in 2003, a police officer reported Rivera leaned close and said, "Don't tell anybody that the cocaine is mine, OK?" Police said he had thrown some drugs onto a roof, according to a police report.

The February incident was the second time in five months that Stover had fatally wounded someone. He and Officer Jim Johnston fatally shot Miguel Angel Kovrig in September after Kovrig threatened to shoot family members at his home. The officers were cleared by prosecutors in that case.

Stover was investigated by police internal affairs in 2002 for hitting a suspect with a flashlight in his hand. Police determined that Stover did not violate the agency's use-of-force policies, a department report shows.

And he was fired in 1996, after a grand jury indicted him on felony aggravated assault charges in a case in which he'd kicked and punched a restrained man during an arrest after a high-speed chase. Stover pleaded not guilty and the criminal case was dismissed. He won back his job on appeal.