KIRKLAND – The hunt for the man who allegedly shot and killed a New Hartford police officer after a jewelry store robbery Monday night ended late Tuesday with more gunfire. A U.S. marshall looking for the suspected triggerman Tuesday was shot in Chester, Pa., about 15 miles south of Philadelphia, where authorities say the suspect had barricaded himself in a house on McDonald Street. After gunfire was exchanged, the U.S. marshal, who was not seriously injured, was treated at the scene. Marshals had spent much of the day Tuesday searching for the accused killer. But the suspect, Walter R. Richardson, 36, was shot and killed, Chester police said. Police say Richardson shot and killed Officer Joseph Corr, who was chasing him as he fled the Byrne Dairy in Kirkland. Corr, 30, was a six-year-veteran of the New Hartford Police Department, and the married father of an infant daughter. Richardson then commandeered a vehicle at a nearby auto repair shop, which he used to flee to the Philadelphia area, said New Hartford Police Lt. Timothy O’Neill at a press conference Tuesday afternoon. Police arrested John T. Healy, 46, of the Bronx, who they say was also involved in the robbery. He was apprehended fleeing from the Byrne Dairy in Kirkland. Healy was charged with second-degree murder in the death of the officer. Healy pleaded not guilty Tuesday and was being held without bail. Richardson faced a charge of first-degree murder for killing an officer in the line of duty, said Oneida County District Attorney Michael Arcuri. He added Healy and Richardson both have “sizable” criminal histories. On Monday night police quickly responded to a call at about 8:30 p.m. of a burglary in progress at Lennon’s W. B. Wilcox Jewelers on Commercial Drive in New Hartford, O’Neill said. As the suspects fled the scene they were pursued by members of the New Hartford and Kirkland police departments. After driving about five miles west on Route 5, they pulled into a Byrne Dairy gas station at the corner of Route 5 and Route 233 in Kirkland, O’Neill said. When they crashed into a gas pump at the station they both attempted to flee on foot. The suspects’ vehicle is believed to belong to Richardson’s mother in Havertown, Pa. O’Neill said it appeared two officers from the Kirkland Police Department and one from New Hartford apprehended Healy after the crash. Corr ran after Richardson, who was headed behind the store and into a nearby wooded area. Corr was shot once by the suspect, O’Neill said. He was struck in the neck. Corr was taken to St. Elizabeth’s Hospital in Utica where he was pronounced dead. New Hartford Police Chief Raymond Philo said Corr was wearing a department-issued bulletproof vest. The vest, however, did not protect Corr’s neck. Police do not know how Richardson escaped, but a local auto repair shop owner believes he car-jacked one of his employees and drove to Pennsylvania. Earlier in the day Tuesday, troopers in New York and Pennsylvania were broadcasting on their radio systems for troopers to be on the lookout for a red 1995 Chevrolet truck with New York license plates and the words “Kirkland Automotive” on the sides. The radio transmissions said the truck was being driven by a white male, believed to be the missing employee, with a black male passenger, who was to be considered armed and extremely dangerous. Kirkland Automotive owner Robert Suskie said an employee of the shop told him that he was in a tow truck at the shop Monday night when a man got in the truck and forced the employee to drive him away. Suskie said the employee, whom he would only name as “Joe,” called him at 5 a.m. Tuesday morning to say he was OK, and told him the story of what happened. He was at a pay phone near Allentown, Pa., Suskie said. “We haven’t talked to him, except to find out that he’s safe,” Suskie said. The suspect stopped at a gas station and fled on foot, leaving Joe with the tow truck, Suskie said. When Joe called Suskie, he then called 911 to tell the police where Joe was. The truck has been recovered, according to police. “I couldn’t believe it,” Suskie said of the whole ordeal. He said he thought Joe probably didn’t understand why the suspect needed the vehicle. “I don’t think he knew the extent of what was going on,” Suskie said. “I think he just thought he’d been car-jacked.” Suskie said he was interviewed by police Monday night, and he believes they followed a blood trail to the auto shop. Police did not confirm Suskie’s account. New Hartford police said Healy and Richardson may have been part of a larger operation now being investigated by the FBI that has robbed jewelry stores along the East Coast. O’Neill said 20 different police agencies with 200 to 300 law enforcement officers helped with the manhunt. Both the jewelry store and the Byrne Dairy were still roped off Tuesday afternoon, as well as a section of the woods across from Kirkland Automotive. Police are not positive that Richardson and Healy were the only two people involved in the robbery. Some reports said there were four participants. “At this time we have not ruled out that there may have been other people involved in this crime,” O’Neill said. Philo said Corr had received the Governor’s Traffic Safety Award and several department commendations for bravery and superior investigative work. “He had a hunter’s instinct. He would dig his teeth into a case,” said Philo, adding Corr was often assigned difficult cases because of his investigative skills. The son of a retired State University of New York police officer, Corr was also a New Hartford Volunteer Firefighter. He is survived by his wife, an infant daughter, and his parents. Calling hours will be Thursday and funeral services will be Friday. Delaware County Daily Times Staff Writer Rose Quinn and the Associated Press contributed to this report.