ESCONDIDO -- It all started with an argument over a shoppingcart.

Advertisement

A nine-hour standoff between Escondido police and an elderly manarmed with an AK-47 type of rifle ended just before midnightMonday, when the man shot and killed himself, authoritiessaid.

View a slide show

By Tuesday afternoon, most of the roughly 200 people who hadbeen evacuated during the standoff had returned to their homes inthe mostly residential, low-income neighborhood around the MidwayDrive apartment complex.

For most of the day, police investigators continued documentingevery bullet fired around the now-calm, blue-and-white apartmentsfor senior citizens in eastern Escondido. The quiet scenecontrasted sharply with the night before, when dozens of lawenforcement officers cordoned off the area, preventing a crowd ofat least 100 bystanders from getting into the line of fire.

The San Diego County medical examiner’s office identified thedead man Tuesday morning as 75-year-old William G. Sloan. Neighborssaid they considered him generally “jovial” and police said he hadnever been in trouble with the law in San Diego County.

The incident began Monday when police arrived at EscondidoApartments at 500 N. Midway after a 2:35 p.m. call about adisturbance, Escondido police spokesman Lt. David Mankin said.

Witnesses told police that Sloan on Monday afternoon had punched92-year-old Rose Marsala, a neighbor who lives in the apartmentdiagonally across from Sloan, in the chest.

Sloan and Marsala had been arguing over the proper storage of ashopping cart that she used to support herself while walking,Mankin said. When Sloan punched Marsala, the woman was preventedfrom falling to the ground by an employee of the apartment complexwho was standing behind her, Mankin said Tuesday. The employee tookMarsala to the complex’s management office, he added.

Sloan returned to his apartment and fired on two officers whohad responded to the disturbance and they returned fire, woundingSloan, Mankin said. Precisely where Sloan was shot was still underinvestigation, as well as how many shots were fired. No shots werefired after the initial exchange, Mankin said.

One officer was initially pinned down by the hail of bullets,but eventually was safely extricated from the complex by fellowofficers.

SWAT teams surrounded the building and police shut down Midwaybetween East Valley Parkway and Washington Avenue. Some residentsof the apartment complex were evacuated in a North County TransitDistrict bus, while dozens of neighbors congregated at a nearby gasstation.

About 35 people spent Monday night at the East Valley CommunityCenter on East Valley Parkway, where the American Red Crossprovided food and beds, a spokeswoman for the Red Cross said.

As the standoff wore on Monday night, electricity to thesecond-floor apartment was shut off and floodlights brought in bypolice illuminated the windows. Sloan changed shirts and was seenwalking around inside, Mankin said.

Police negotiators tried for hours to phone Sloan and were ableto speak with him Monday night, Mankin said. Sloan seemed toexperience “mood swings,” in that conversations with him weresometimes relatively calm and sometimes argumentative, he saidTuesday.

Sloan eventually asked to speak with his son, Scott, a Riversideresident, he said. The younger Sloan came to Escondido on Mondaynight and recorded a plea for his father to surrender peacefully,Mankin said. It is unclear whether the elder Sloan heard the entiremessage, he said.

A SWAT officer who was looking through the apartment’s windowsaw Sloan shoot himself at roughly 11:45 p.m. A note to familymembers was discovered in the apartment, but officials declined todisclose its contents.

Eblin Bueno, a 10-year resident of Escondido Apartments, saidTuesday that she was surprised by Sloan’s violent behavior Mondayand his suicide because it contrasted with his usually friendlymanner. The woman said she was frightened during the standoff andwent to stay with her brother.

“He was always making jokes at the parties we have at theapartments,” she said Tuesday.

Neighbors could tell he had an exercise treadmill, because itmade noise that could be heard through the walls, she said.

Sloan had lived at Escondido Apartments -- federally subsidizedhousing for senior citizens -- for about 10 months, said WendyTarantino, a representative of the apartments’ managementcompany.

Sloan was originally from Massachusetts, and moved to Escondidofrom St. Louis, she said. One of his fellow residents had known himfrom St. Louis for more than 20 years and recruited him to live atthe apartments in Escondido, she said.

He had at least two children and grandchildren, Tarantinosaid.

She said neighbors described him as “jovial” and that the Mondaystandoff was puzzling.

“I don’t what made this person snap,” she said.

Contact staff writer Quinn Eastman at (760) 740-5412 orqeastman@nctimes.com.