A DRUNKEN off-duty cop struck and killed a photographer taking pictures on the Queensboro Bridge early yesterday - after swerving around a dump truck, several barrels and traffic cones to get onto a closed section of the span, sources said. Housing cop Brandon Colon, 30, slammed his SUV into Julio Alberto Ortega-Moncada at 3:40 a.

m. while the Queens artist walked along the outer roadway taking pictures of the skyline, sources said. Ortega-Moncada, the married father of a 7-year-old son, died on the bridge while a friend, who leaped out of the SUV's path, watched helplessly nearby, sources said. "The cop was drunk. It's pretty cut-and-dried," a police source said. Colon's blood-alcohol level measured 0.

Advertisement

16%, twice the legal limit, when he was arrested at the scene, sources said. "He will be prosecuted like anybody else, depending on what laws he broke," Mayor Bloomberg said. The cop, who joined the NYPD five years ago, refused to submit to more drug and alcohol tests when he was taken to Manhattan's 28th Precinct stationhouse, sources said. But a warrant was obtained to draw his blood at Harlem Hospital to better determine how much alcohol and whether any drugs were in his system, sources said. Colon was arraigned in Manhattan Criminal Court early this morning on charges of manslaughter, leaving the scene of an accident and driving while intoxicated. He was held on $15,000 bail. His lawyer Chris Devane called the crash "a tragic and unfortunate incident," but said he intended "to fight each allegation.

" Colon apparently went out drinking after finishing his shift at midnight at a Manhattan housing division station on E. 123rd St. The bridge's outer roadway had been closed by a contractor doing cleaning and maintenance. The cop either cut around a dump truck with flashing lights, barrels and traffic cones or drove the wrong way down E. 59th St. to get around the barriers near Second Ave. "It took some effort to ignore the lights, cones, the truck and go that way," a source said. Colon plowed into Ortega-Moncada seconds after rolling onto the bridge, sources said. The cop continued driving until he came to a city Department of Transportation truck blocking the road, sources said. "Another guy driving on the inner roadway saw the accident, and told the DOT workers to hold that car because he'd just hit somebody," a source said. The witness, who left after workers grabbed Colon, was being sought by cops last night. Pedestrians can take photos on the bridge. But Ortega-Moncada should not have been on the closed outer roadway. Buddy Moises Hernandez, 26, of Queens, said Ortega-Moncada, "went onto the bridge many times to take pictures. He was a photographer. That's what he did.

Advertisement

" "He was dedicated to his work more than anything," stressed another friend, Jesus Galvan, 36, of Yonkers. "Inside Mexican art circles, he is a well-known photographer.

" Hernandez said that Ortega-Moncada, whose nickname was Zapatone, was "in love with his background. The Aztecs, the Mayans, they were his ancestors.

" Hernandez said both his pal's wife and the friend who was with him on the bridge "are in shock and not doing too well.

" agendar@nydailynews.

com