A lawsuit filed Monday in Jackson County Circuit Court claims police had a “vendetta” against a man they shot during an arrest three years ago.

Anthony Champion, 18, died March 28, 2006, after police shot him while trying to arrest him at his mother’s home at 3043 E. 60th St. in Kansas City. According to the wrongful death lawsuit filed by his family, Champion was hiding in the home’s basement when police shot him about 20 times.

“The detective Defendants claim Anthony Champion ‘drew a firearm,’ but the only weapon found was an empty AK-47 and no bullets in the basement,” the petition said. The lawsuit alleged that Kansas City police officers “told him they were going to kill him when they find him next time.” It went on to allege that “the killing of Anthony Champion was a vendetta for the police officers belief that Anthony Champion tried to run over a fellow police officer with a vehicle on an earlier date.”

The suit alleges the officers did not identify themselves as police officers when they entered the home and didn’t give Champion a chance to surrender.

According to media reports at the time of the shooting, Champion had been charged with assaulting a police officer and resisting arrest after accelerating a car toward officers, who were approaching him on a report that the car had been stolen.

Champion also faced probation violations. The family’s lawyer, James T. Madison, of the Madison Law Firm, said Tuesday that Champion had prematurely left a diversion program. Madison said Champion told neighbors that he was scared for his life after officers allegedly threatened him.

“The way he was shot by these police officers, the fact that he never shot a round, it’s just really suspicious,” Madison said. “It makes you think, you know what, they did go down and kill him, just like they told him they would. I’d really hate to think that. I really have hated thinking it since the case came to me, but it’s my job to investigate it.”

The lawsuit includes counts of wrongful death, negligence and malicious intent. It names Detectives Ernest Baskerville, Stuart Carpenter and Jody Reid, as well as the city of Kansas City and the Board of Police Commissioners. The plaintiffs are his mother, Vickie Evans, and siblings Antwanique, Tamara and Tyra Evans and Tommie Miller Jr., who were present at the shooting.

Officer Darin Snapp, a police spokesman, said the department doesn’t comment on pending litigation.