An off-duty Chicago police officer shot and killed two men who aimed guns at him early Friday, shortly after the officer had helped throw one of the men out of a bar, according to law enforcement officials.

Police officials said the officer was justified in shooting the two men after they pulled up to his black Hummer at a Northwest Side intersection and both pointed handguns at him. But police are still investigating the circumstances that led to the shooting, police spokeswoman Monique Bond said.

Advertisement

Kenneth Elrod, 31, of the 5400 block of West Carmen Avenue, was drinking at the bar near Belmont and Central Avenues early Friday when the staff asked him to leave at closing time, law enforcement sources said. The off-duty officer, a seven-year veteran assigned to the Albany Park District tactical unit, was a patron in the bar and helped the staff get Elrod to leave, a source said.

Elrod's wife later told detectives her husband called home and told her he was coming to retrieve a gun because someone at the bar had made him angry, sources said.

Advertisement

At 2:30 a.m., the officer was driving eastbound on Belmont Avenue, when he stopped at Kilpatrick Avenue. Elrod's white Ford Ranger pulled up next to the Hummer and two men in the pickup aimed guns at the officer, Bond said.

The officer pulled his gun and opened fire, hitting Elrod and the passenger in the truck, Demetri Centera, 31, of the 4700 block of North Kenneth Avenue. Both men died at the scene. Elrod stumbled out of the pickup and collapsed on the pavement, police said. Neither man in the pickup fired a shot, police said.

Police said they recovered two handguns, a .38-caliber revolver and a .25-caliber semiautomatic, from the cab of the truck.

In public statements Friday, police officials did not mention that the officer and Elrod had been at the same bar and had an altercation prior to the shooting. That information was confirmed Friday by law enforcement sources.

Police did not administer any kind of sobriety test to the officer, who did not appear to be intoxicated, Bond said.

Following standard procedure after a shooting by an officer, police convened a "roundtable" of law enforcement officials to review the incident. The panel cleared the officer of any wrongdoing in the deaths later Friday morning.

Police have not referred the shooting to the Cook County state's attorney's office to determine whether charges against the officer are warranted, said Tandra Simonton, a spokeswoman for the office.

Several details were still unclear, sources said. Centera was not believed to have been in the bar, and police were investigating when he joined Elrod.

Advertisement

Carlo Centera, Demetri's brother, said Elrod came to their home in the 4700 block of North Kenneth Avenue early Friday and had blood on his clothes that he said was the result of a fight at the bar. He changed his clothes and headed off with Demetri Centera, the brother said. Carlo Centera said his brother did not own a gun.

Police also were canvassing the area around the shooting looking for witnesses and any security cameras that may have recorded the shooting, Bond said.

Police would not disclose the details of the officer's account, including whether any words were exchanged before the shots were fired.

The officer, who was hired in 2000, was off-duty and had not worked on Thursday, Bond said. She added that the officer is in "good standing" with the department and would take a few days off, which is the usual practice after a shooting.

Police said both dead men were known members of the Latin Eagles gang and one had extensive gang tattoos. Both had numerous arrests, and Elrod had a 1994 felony conviction for drug dealing. He was sentenced to 2 years in prison.

Centera also had a 1994 drug conviction, for which he received a year of probation.

Advertisement

Though police described the two men as criminals and gang members, Elrod's family said he was a loving father of two small children who worked as a plumber.

If Elrod was affiliated with a gang, "it was way, way before, before we even knew him," said Linda Morales, whose sister Maria married Elrod four years ago.

The couple are parents of a 2-year-old girl and a 4-month-old boy, Morales said.

Elrod was a loving father, who worked hard to support his family, she said.

"He was a very hard worker," she said. "He was a provider and the mortgage payer."

Elrod's widow was distraught over how she would care for their children without her husband, Morales said. Maria Elrod was questioned by detectives at the Grand Central Area headquarters from about 10 a.m. until late Friday afternoon, Morales said.

Advertisement

----------

dheinzmann@tribune.com

jcoen@tribune.com