A judge today denied a retired cop's bid to move his murder trial off Staten Island for the alleged slaying of a retired Port Authority police officer in an apparent road-rage incident two years ago in New Springville.

Allen Lau, 48, sought a change of venue, contending in court papers that pretrial publicity on the case "reveals deep resentment" toward him in the borough "that would make it difficult for him to receive a fair trial" here.

"The press coverage of the case exhibited affirmative hostility" against him, Lau charged in those documents.Jury selection is now slated for Monday in state Supreme Court, St. George, after Justice Stephen Rooney shot down Lau's motion from the bench. The judge said such a request should not be made until after jurors are questioned.

Lau is accused of gunning down Steven Vitale, of New Springville, in a hail of bullets on April 10, 2006, as the victim left his SUV to walk to a Chinese take-out restaurant on Richmond Hill Road. The bullets narrowly missed Vitale's wife, Karen, and wounded the couple's black Labrador retriever, Philly.

Police have said Lau may have been enraged at being cut off by another motorist on the Staten Island Expressway, or because he believed Vitale, 55, was driving too slowly. The two men apparently did not know each other.

During a subsequent standoff in which Lau holed up in his Travis Avenue home for almost eight hours, he told a hostage negotiator he was an alcoholic and had downed a bottle of vodka, according to court records. Police later seized a cache of firearms and ammunition, including pistols, shotguns, semiautomatic rifles and three homemade hand grenades from his house.

After Lau gave up and was arrested, he was taken to Staten Island University Hospital for psychiatric evaluation.

According to court papers, Lau intends to raise an insanity defense at trial. He maintains his intent for the crimes was impaired by his "severe mental illness" along with his "alcoholism" and "his withdrawal state."

Outside court, defense lawyers Ronald E. Kliegerman and David M. Schwartz declined to elaborate on Lau's alleged psychiatric problems.

Court-appointed psychiatrists have deemed him mentally fit to stand trial, which means he understands the charges against him and can participate in his defense. Such a finding, however, does not preclude presenting an insanity defense.

In denying the change of venue request, Rooney told Lau's lawyers they can re-present the motion after juror questioning begins, should seating a panel prove difficult.

"We think Mr. Lau would get a fairer trial outside Staten Island because of the localized pretrial publicity," Schwartz said outside court.

Assistant District Attorneys Michael J. Bousquet and Anne Grady opposed the motion.



Jury selection was to start today, but was pushed back a week after prosecutors turned over a box of documents to the defense. Lau's attorneys said they would need time to review it. A status conference is set for Thursday at 2 p.m. in advance of next week's jury selection.

Dressed in an olive-colored suit, green shirt and tie, Lau said little during the 30-minute session. Appearing heavier than he was two years ago, his dark hair was cut short and he wears eyeglasses.

Lau could face up to 25 years to life in prison if convicted at trial of second-degree murder. He also is accused of attempted murder and a slew of weapon and ammunition possession charges.

A 20-year NYPD veteran, Lau retired about a year before the incident. He had worked at Ground Zero, comforting victims' relatives after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.

In 1991, Lau shot and killed a robber who threatened him with what turned out to be a fake gun. The shooting was ruled justified.

Vitale was a 21-year veteran of the Port Authority Police Department. He was awarded a Medal of Valor for pulling victims out of the rubble in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. He founded the PAPD's Emergency Services Unit and was in charge of its canine unit before joining a private security firm.

His family has filed multimillion-dollar civil lawsuit against the city and the New York City Police Department, alleging negligence in the training, hiring and monitoring of Lau and also in licensing him to carry a gun. The case is pending in state Supreme Court, St. George.

-- Contributed by Frank Donnelly