UPDATE: The suspect's name is Richard Castro Perez, Jr., age 38, from Moreno Valley. The next of kin has been notified in this incident.-------On Thursday, April 13, 2006, at about 4:40 am, a sergeant from the Moreno Valley Police Department was on patrol in the area of Perris Blvd. and Dracaea Ave. in the City of Moreno Valley and was contacted by a female. The female asked for the officer's help and stated that her husband wanted to hurt himself and commit suicide.The sergeant followed the female to the 24000 block of Eucalyptus Ave. Three additional police officers and another sergeant arrived at about the same time. The officers were talking to the female in front of the home to gather more information about the incident. The suspect came out of the residence and stood in the doorway.The suspect appeared to be in possession of a handgun. The officers gave verbal commands for the suspect to drop the weapon. The suspect then began to yell at the female while officers were giving their commands. The suspect did not comply with the officer's commands. The suspect re-entered the residence.The officers deployed their less than lethal pepper ball weapon. The officers heard a popping sound coming from the inside of the residence. They looked into the home through a large glass window and saw flames inside. It appeared to officers that the suspect had set the house on fire.The officers feared for the safety of possible additional victims inside of the home and once again gave verbal commands for the suspect to exit the house. One of the officers located a rock and threw it against the window breaking it. The officers continued giving verbal commands to the suspect to exit the house. The officers fired several rounds of their less than lethal pepper ball weapon into the home.The suspect then jumped threw the front glass window and into the front yard. The suspect stood up and was armed with an axe. The officers once again gave verbal commands and fired their less than lethal pepper ball weapon at the suspect. The suspect did not comply with the commands of the officers and it the less than lethal pepper ball weapon had no effect on him.The suspect approached the officers in a threatening manner with the axe. The officers continued with their verbal commands and the suspect did not comply. The three officers discharged their duty weapons striking the suspect. The officers called for the Fire Department and paramedics to the location.The suspect was taken to a local hospital for medical treatment. At about 6:26 am, the suspect was pronounced deceased by medical personnel.Detectives from the Moreno Valley Police Department, Investigators from the Riverside County Sheriff's Department Central Homicide Unit, Investigators from the Riverside County Sheriff's Department Administrative Investigations Unit, and members of the Riverside County District Attorney's Office arrived at the location to assist in the investigation of this incident.The three officers from the Moreno Valley Police Department have been placed on paid administrative leave per department policy. One officer is a 17 year veteran, another is a nine year veteran and the other is a 4 year veteran of the department.