Four Butte County Sheriff’s deputies have been deemed justified in the shooting death of a Berry Creek resident on Tuesday.

All four deputies had been on administrative leave during the investigation by the Butte County Officer Involved Shooting Protocol Team. They have since returned to duty.

David Albert Linn, 41, was shot on April 24 after Deputies Harold Horner, Jason Piazza and Vong Vang and Sgt. Steven Collins responded to two disturbance calls at 6 p.m.

District Attorney Mike Ramsey said Linn had a reputation among his neighbors for playing loud music and shooting firearms around his property since he moved there in 2001. His neighbors said Linn’s behavior had gotten more extreme the past week but they didn’t report every instance to the sheriff’s department.

In October 2004, Linn was arrested for disturbing the peace and was jailed for 30 days and put on probation with the stipulation he not play loud music between the hours of 8 p.m. and 8 a.m.

At the time of his arrest, he reportedly said that if deputies returned to his property, he would be armed and would punish them.

Ramsey said the deputies were aware of the past dealings with Linn when they approached his house in April.

Collins attempted to contact Linn, whose speech appeared to be slurred.

Collins and Horner split off from Piazza and Vang to cover the opposite side of Linn’s driveway.

Piazza and Vang reportedly heard shouting and at least one gunshot before they saw Linn walking toward them from behind the house.

The deputies announced their presence and demanded Linn drop his weapon, which was later discovered to be a .357 caliber Magnum seven-shot revolver.

Linn did not obey and said the deputies were trespassing.

“Linn began raising his weapon into a shooting position,” Ramsey said.

The deputies were approximately 45 feet away from Linn, too far for a nonlethal Taser shot, which has a 21-foot limit.

Piazza and Vang fired.

Piazza was armed with a .45-caliber sidearm, and Vang, who was on his third day of field training, was armed with Mini 14 rifle.

Piazza fired eight shots, two of which struck Linn. Vang fired 10 shots, three of which hit Linn.

A shot to the head caused Linn to crumple to the ground on top of his gun, which was later found to be fully loaded.

The deputies called dispatch for medical assistance and then determined medical assistance could not help Linn, who had received a fatal head wound.

Shortly after Linn was shot, one of Linn’s five Great Dane dogs attacked the deputies and had to be shot. A subsequent investigation determined Linn had a blood alcohol level of .19 at the time of death. No other controlled substances had been found in the preliminary tests.

Ramsey said Linn’s mother, who lives in the Bay Area, said she had encouraged her son to seek professional help since he suffered a breakdown eight years ago.

She also picked up the four remaining Great Danes.

Ramsey said in the last year there have been six officer-involved shootings. Four involved the Chico Police Department.

In the past 15 to 20 years, the rural areas of Butte County have averaged only one deputy-involved shooting every couple of years. This was the second incident this calendar year.

The last death resulting from a deputy shooting occurred in February in Bangor. An investigation concluded that deputies were justified in shooting a 22-year-old man armed with a knife.

Ramsey said the only commonality the incidents had was they both involved mental health issues.

***

The writer can be reached at vlum@paradisepost.com.