A Glen Ellyn police officer fatally shot a College of DuPage student Wednesday evening to "prevent harm to two children," authorities said Thursday.

But the student's father and friends questioned the shooting of the unarmed man who they said was not violent.

Advertisement

Police and the DuPage County state's attorney released few details Thursday about the death of Benjamin Uwumarogie, 22. But a law-enforcement source close to the investigation said the officer responding to a domestic violence call found Uwumarogie trying to drown his year-old son in a bathtub.

Neither the toddler nor a 3-year-old also in the apartment was seriously injured, police said. The officer was treated for injuries suffered in a struggle with Uwumarogie and released from Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove.

Advertisement

Uwumarogie's relationship to the 3-year-old is unclear.

Police would neither identify the officer nor say whether he purposely fired his weapon. DuPage County State's Atty. Joseph Birkett said the officer "was confronted by a very dangerous situation," but declined to describe the incident further.

Uwumarogie was naked and unarmed, police said. Police would not say how many shots were fired or where Uwumarogie was struck. The county coroner would give no information on the cause of death.

Friends and family of Uwumarogie were outraged by the shooting, saying he had no reason to be violent either with a child or with police.

"I found out he was shot in the face," said his father, Sunday Uwumarogie of south suburban Matteson. "How do you shoot someone who has no clothes on? You can see he has no gun, no knife."

He asked why police did not "shoot him in his leg or use mace? ... They were looking right at him when they shot him."

The shooting is under investigation by Birkett's office, the sheriff's office and the DuPage County Major Crimes Task Force, and officials said no other details would be released until the investigation is completed.

The incident at Benjamin Uwumarogie's apartment in the 0-99 block of Briar Street began about 6 p.m. when police responded to a report of a "possible physical domestic violence to children."

Advertisement

Uwumarogie's family and friends said he was caring for his year-old son from a previous relationship. His fiance was in the apartment and made the initial call to police, authorities said.

The responding officer found Uwumarogie unclothed and outside his first-floor apartment, according to a statement from Glen Ellyn police. Uwumarogie went back in the apartment and then began struggling with the officer, according to Glen Ellyn Deputy Chief William Holmer. Uwumarogie, a wide receiver last fall for the College of DuPage's football team, was listed on the team's Web site as being 6-foot-1 and 202 pounds.

A law-enforcement source close to the investigation said Uwumarogie tried to drown the 1-year-old in a bathtub and that when the officer ordered him to release the child, he refused, then moved to attack the officer.

During the struggle, "unfortunately ... the officer discharged his service weapon, striking Uwumarogie, resulting in his death," Holmer said at a news conference Thursday in the Glen Ellyn police station.

The source said the officer shot Uwumarogie in the head and that Uwumarogie tried to use the 3-year-old as a shield.

Holmer said there was no evidence that Uwumarogie had wielded a weapon during the incident.

Advertisement

A Department of Children and Family Services spokesman said the agency had no previous contacts with Uwumarogie or his fiance, but DCFS has opened a child welfare investigation.

Sunday Uwumarogie said Benjamin was one of six children and was raised in Matteson. He played football at Rich Township South High School, from which he graduated in 2001, his father said.

Benjamin Uwumarogie enrolled last year in the College of DuPage, his father said.

Sunday Uwumarogie said one of his son's friends called and said something terrible had happened to Benjamin. His father tried calling Glen Ellyn police for information and even went to the station Wednesday, but they wouldn't tell him anything, he said. He then went to his son's apartment and learned of his death from an officer there.

"I talked to my son [Wednesday] morning, and he told me he was going to be baby-sitting this young boy. How did everything just go bad?" he asked, choking back tears.

He said his son had minor scrapes with the law as a youth. Court records indicate Benjamin Uwumarogie has no violent criminal history but pleaded guilty March 9, 2005, to criminal damage to property in Cook County Court and was ordered to pay a $279 fine.

Advertisement

Julian Alexander, 23, the 1-year-old's uncle, said Uwumarogie remained friendly with his ex-girlfriend, Alexander's sister.

"He was a class clown. He was my high school buddy. I don't think he would have done anything like that," Alexander said. "He was talking about how much he believed in God, and he could turn his life around. He was very optimistic and very funny."

Reginald Rogers, another friend, said Uwumarogie had picked up his son a few days ago from the boy's mother on the South Side.

"He was talking and laughing, and he wanted to know when he should bring the baby back," he said.

William Troller, a College of DuPage spokesman, said Uwumarogie took classes there last summer. He was enrolled in one class, the history of Western civilization, this semester, Troller said.

"We are deeply saddened to hear this," Troller said. "We have more than 32,000 students here and each one of them is precious to us."

Advertisement

----------

jsjostrom@tribune.com

arozas@tribune.com