0 Flares Filament.io 0 Flares ×

Police have long been regarded by many in the

African American community

as an occupying army.

The recent use of overwhelming

force by police

in Garden Hills, a predominantly

working class African A m e r i c a n

neighborhood in Champaign, only feeds into

this perception. After a four-hour standoff,

Carl “Dennis” Stewart, 46, was forced into a

corner by police and he killed himself.

The death of this husband and family man

cornered by police should be regarded by all

members of the Champaign-Urbana community

as a sign of continued social ills.

On the afternoon of May 11, 2006, Champaign

police responded to a domestic violence

call in the Garden Hills neighborhood,

just north of Bradley Avenue and west of

Prospect. Upon arriving at the scene, they

found Stewart, a well-liked head custodian at

Booker T. Washington elementary school,

sitting alone in his parked car in the driveway

of a neighborhood house with a gun. It

was learned that Stewart had been separated

from his wife, was going through marital

problems, and was suicidal.

Champaign police quickly leaped into

action by calling in the S.W.A.T. (Special

Weapons and Tactics) team and rolling out

the force’s prized A.P.C. (Armored Personel

Carrier), an expensive high-tech tank

designed to suppress mobs and riots. Intead

of handling this as a potential suicide, the

police reacted as if this were a terrorist

attack.

Police brought in a hostage negotiator,

but after several hours they had gained no

ground. Pinned into a corner by the police

tank, Stewart attempted to flee in his car, and

was trapped by police. The situation ended

with the worst outcome when Stewart turned

the gun on himself.

A new watchdog organization called

Community Court Watch grew out of Cop

Watch efforts that began over two years ago.

Court Watch members Aaron Ammons of CU

Citizens for Peace and Justice, Tanya

Parker of Habari Connection, and myself

went out into the Garden Hills community to

interview people about their perception of

the police reaction.

One woman who lives on Joanne Lane,

where the standoff occurred, told us she has

not received a full explanation from the

police. The first thing she saw was police

with drawn pistols and rifles in her front

yard. When she went outside, she was sternly

directed by police to go back into the

house. Her greatest concern was for her child

who was returning home from school.

She went on to explain that she saw the

armored tank chase Stewart’s vehicle up the

block. She described the site where the suicide

occurred and told us it looked like the

armored tank had rammed Stewart’s car,

pushed him off the road and into a post.

Other neighbors we interviewed told us

they heard six shots, not the alleged single

gunshot.

Many we talked to expressed their concern

that police did not allow family members

to talk with Stewart. Aphoto in the May

12, 2006 issue of the News-Gazette showed

Stewart’s brother restrained by police, quoted

as crying repeatedly, “You’re just going to

shoot him anyway.”

One interviewee who knows Stewart’s

mother said that even she was not given a

chance to talk to her own son. Police brought

Stewart’s mother to the scene, but would not

allow her to talk to him. “If anyone could,”

the interviewee explained, “certainly a mother

could talk to her son.”

Someone else we talked to said she also

knows the family. She claimed that it was

after police cut off a phone conversation

between Stewart and his wife that he took off

in his car.

A witness told us that the white hostage

negotiator was not very helpful. Watching

the incident from the front window of his

house, he stated bluntly that after listening to

the negoiator, he was ready to kill himself.

One question raised is: why a hostage

negotiator and not a suicide counselor?

Pointing to Arrowhead Lanes bowling

alley at the end of the street, a neighbor

described the army of police officers lined up

in the parking lot, allwearing black uniforms.

While we interviewed her, a UPS truck drove

b y. Gesturing at it, she said the police truck

was even bigger – a “big blue tank.” I asked

if the police seemed as if they were carrying

out a military exercise. She said, “Shoot, they

was worse than the military. ”

I asked one woman if it could have ended

another way. She told me, “It went down

exactly how they wanted it to go down. He

was Black. They didn’t care.” Do you think

this would have happened in a white neighborhood?

She said, “Hell no!”

Those we interviewed felt that only half

the story has been told by the local media.

The News-Gazette did little more than dictate

what the police told them to say. In the

newspaper, Champaign Police Chief R.T.

Finney congratulated his force and said,

“There was a considerable amount of

restraint shown” (5/13/2006).

Two years ago, when the African American

community opposed the purchase of

Tasers in Champaign, Chief Finney was just

beginning his tenure with the force. After the

City Council failed to endorse the purchase

of Tasers, Finney agreed it was best and said

it should be his priority to improve his relationship

with the community (News-Gazette

3/25/2004).

After this latest police stunt in Garden

Hills, it does not look like Chief Finney has

made much progress in this relationship.

In Urbana, new Police Chief Mike Billy

is talking about reinstituting the Street Crime

Unit to fight drugs, yet another heavy-handed

police response to what is at its root a

problem that should be treated through

social services, not more police raids.

Of course, an investigation will most

likely absolve the Champaign police department

of all blame. Unfortunately, community

relations between African American residents

and the police will continue to worsen.