[police officer involved domestic violence oidv intimate partner violence ipv abuse law enforcement public safety lethal fatality fatalities murder teflon new jersey state politics outrageous]

Robert Vanaman is not guilty of murder. Smoke and mirrors. Killing Barbara was "passion-provocation manslaughter." Really?AND I OBJECT to the media continuing to speak as if Barbara really pulled a knife on lying Robert. Who said that? Only HE did. Barbara is not here to speak for herself - and I have no reason to believe Robert Vanaman . Nobody does. I tend to trim that media assumption out of my choice of excerpts - but the links to the articles are here.The Daily JournalWritten byJoseph P. Smith2:27 AM, Sep. 29, 2011[Excerpts] A state judge Wednesday resentenced Robert E. Vanaman to a total prison term of seven years for killing his estranged wife in 2006, reducing the amount of time the former Millville police sergeant is likely to spend behind bars. The new sentence, ordered by a state appellate court, effectively shaves two years off Vanaman's original nine-year combined prison term. Vanaman used his service weapon to shoot to death his 37-year-old wife, Barbara Elke Vanaman, on May 11, 2006, inside their Millville home. She had moved out and was seeking a divorce. Appearing in shackles in Cumberland County Superior Court, Vanaman was resentenced Wednesday to six years for the crime of "passion-provocation manslaughter." In addition, Judge Martin Herman re-imposed a consecutive one-year term for one count of evidence tampering. That's because Vanaman used a knife to cut his arms after the shooting, in hopes of convincing authorities the two gunshots he fired were an act of self-defense... Vanaman, now 42, must serve 85 percent of the six-year term before he is eligible for parole... Relatives of Vanaman and his wife were at the hearing, seated on different sides of the courtroom. The judge turned down a request from Deputy Public Defender Charles Sandilos to allow letters to be read from Vanaman's father, sister and two sons... ... [Full article here Press of Atlantic CityTuesday, October 4, 2011[Excerpts] ...[Robert Vanaman] was originally sentenced to one year for the evidence tampering and eight years on the manslaughter charge. That was in 2009. Last week, as the result of an appeals court decision ordering a resentencing, Vanaman's manslaughter sentence was reduced to six years. Six years. For shooting his wife in the chest. With the one year for evidence tampering, and counting the time he has already served, he will be eligible for parole in May 2014. Even though ... he put two bullets in his wife's chest and initially lied about it... The appellate court that ordered Superior Court Judge Martin Herman to resentence Vanaman ruled that Herman improperly used Vanaman's employment as a police officer as an aggravating factor in the original sentencing. Herman had said that because Vanaman was a police officer, he "violated the public trust." The appeals court said there was nothing in the law that allowed his employment to affect his sentencing in a case where he committed a violent act against his spouse... It is difficult to see how justice has been served in this case. [Full article here