The man fatally shot by a Marengo police officer acted alone in a "random act of violence" when he robbed and strangled an elderly woman in her home, investigators said Wednesday.

There was no forced entry or evidence of a relationship between Jose Manuel Aldava-Grijaldo, 21, and Verna Corcoran, 83, who was slain Sunday.

Advertisement

Marengo Police Chief Les Kottke offered few details about the slaying or about what happened when one of his officers later shot and killed Aldava-Grijaldo.

"We believe that Mr. Aldava acted alone," Kottke said, basing that on evidence in Corcoran's car, which Aldava-Grijaldo was driving. Kottke would not comment on the evidence.

Advertisement

Evidence in Corcoran's home tied Aldava-Grijaldo to the scene, Kottke said.

A neighbor discovered Corcoran's body about 6:15 p.m. Sunday.

As many as 20 to 25 officers from several departments soon were searching the area, Kottke said.

About 11 p.m. a Marengo officer saw Aldava-Grijaldo in Corcoran's 1988 Ford Crown Victoria on Park Drive, about five blocks from her home.

After a 15-mile chase, Aldava-Grijaldo crashed near Hampshire in Kane County. After Aldava-Grijaldo confronted the officer and ignored commands to stop, the officer shot him, authorities said.

"At that point, my facts are still as fuzzy as yours are about who did what and when," said Illinois State Police Sgt. Joseph Perez, whose agency is investigating the officer's use of deadly force.

It could take four or five weeks before that investigation is complete, Perez said. The Kane County state's attorney will decide whether the officer's actions were justified, he said.

Kottke declined to discuss details of the shooting, saying he did not want to interfere with the state police investigation.

Advertisement

He said only that the officer has been placed on paid leave until the state police investigation is complete--routine in such cases.

Perez would not say whether Aldava-Grijaldo had a weapon or whether he spoke English.

State police investigators have spoken to Aldava-Grijaldo's acquaintances in the Marengo area and have received calls from people claiming to be members of his family in Mexico, Perez said.

But it remains unknown whether Aldava-Grijaldo was a U.S. citizen, officials said. Aldava-Grijaldo was believed to be living in Marengo, authorities said.

Aldava-Grijaldo once had lived in the 400 block of Eisenhower Street in Marengo, just a few blocks from the Indian Trails subdivision where Corcoran lived, Perez said.

Elderly neighbors of Corcoran's peppered Kottke with questions during the news conference at City Hall.

Advertisement

They wanted to know how the killer got into her home, whether Corcoran had opened the door for him and what time she was killed.

They also asked whether Aldava-Grijaldo had a driver's license or other identification.

Kottke wouldn't answer or said the answers were unknown.

"I didn't learn anything," Corcoran's friend Barbara Voorhees, 71, said afterward. Voorhees lives near Corcoran's home in the 700 block of Cherokee Trail.

She and others wanted to see pictures of Aldava-Grijaldo, which police could not provide.

"I came here to see a picture of the man who killed my friend," Voorhees said. "I didn't see that. I wanted to know if he had been out there" in the neighborhood before.

Advertisement

----------

jjlong@tribune.com