SHARE

By Steven Gardner

Despite the resistance of Kitsap County officials, the Washington Counties Risk Pool has reached a $217,500 settlement with the family of a man killed by Kitsap County sheriff's deputies in 2006.

The settlement was filed in U.S. District Court in Tacoma on Thursday.

"This settlement sends the wrong message to each deputy who risks his or her life to ensure our safety," Kitsap County Sheriff Steve Boyer said in a written statement.

Shane Williams, a 26-year-old Navy Yard City man, was shot dead on E Street by deputies in the early hours of May 16. Williams reportedly had called for police, saying "I need a cop," then approaching them with a machete after they arrived.

Two deputies, Ben Herrin and Paul Woodrum, told Williams to drop the machete, according to a report on the incident prepared weeks later by Kitsap County Prosecutor Russ Hauge. But Williams continued to approach them, saying something like "Let's go," or "Here I am," according to the Hauge report.

Hauge ruled the deputies were justified in their use of deadly force "as the only reasonable course of action available."

Mark Williams, Shane Williams' father, sued the deputies and the county in federal court for wrongful death. That suit alleged that Shane Williams dropped what the suit described as a "metal object" "well before the officers began shooting him."

The suit, filed by Bellevue attorney Guy Beckett, was also on behalf of Shane Williams' daughter, a minor.

Beckett issued a statement following the settlement saying there was evidence disputing the deputies' account of the story.

"While the county admitted no wrongdoing, significant evidence indicates that Shane was unarmed when he was shot. The machete the deputies claim that Shane was swinging at them when they shot him was found ten feet away from his body by the investigating Washington State Patrolman," Beckett said in the statement.

Beckett also said a witness saw a law enforcement officer move the machete closer to Shane Williams' body within the first half hour of the shooting. Another witness who was in an apartment 34 feet away from the scene testified that before the deputies fired, Williams' hands were in the air above his head, like he was surrendering.

"Police officers regularly face dangerous situations, and they are required to make split-second decisions. Society owes a debt of gratitude to the police, and most are good and honorable people. Sometimes, however, in the heat of the moment police officers make a wrong choice. Shane's death was tragic, needless, and unjustified," Beckett said.

The county is a member of the risk pool with 27 other counties in Washington. The pool is established so that counties share the burden of civil settlements such as this one, rather than potentially having one county bankrupted by a single case.

Because of the risk pool, the settlement won't directly cost the county any money, except that its rates for being part of the pool will go up.

County officials said the pool has the right to impose such a settlement. But they believe the pool made the wrong call in this case.

"Not only is this an affront to our deputies, it makes no sense from a legal perspective," Hauge said in the statement. "The law is very clear: peace officers have the right to take steps necessary to defend themselves. When faced with someone wielding a machete ? a clear case of ?suicide by officer' ? our deputies and officers have the right to defend themselves with lethal force. This case should have been tried and it would have been won."

All three county commissioners issued statements agreeing with Boyer and Hauge.

"Settling meritless suits rewards criminal actions and it jeopardizes the safety of any law enforcement officer who may delay reacting, for even a second; that delay may cost innocent lives," said Steve Bauer, county commissioner.