When an FBI informant was slain wearing a federal wire last week in Dolton, he was toting $15,000 in government money to buy guns and grenades in an undercover operation, prosecutors said Saturday.

As Timothy Forrest sat in his sport-utility vehicle in a parking lot, Jerry T. Henderson got in, shot Forrest twice in the head and took the cash, said Assistant Cook County State's Atty. Denise Tomasek.

Advertisement

The gun used to kill Forrest and $13,000 of the "official advanced funds" were later found in Henderson's apartment in Dolton, she said.

After hearing those allegations in a Markham courtroom, Cook County Circuit Judge Thomas O'Hara ordered Henderson, 34, held without bail.

Advertisement

Henderson, of the 14800 block of Atlantic Avenue was arrested at a home in Alsip more than 10 hours after the Wednesday night slaying, authorities said.

He faces state charges of murder and robbery.

Tomasek said Henderson contacted Forrest and offered to sell him guns and grenades. He arranged to meet Forrest in an animal hospital parking lot at Lincoln Avenue and Sibley Boulevard, she said.

Forrest, 41, a longtime Dolton resident, worked as a correctional officer at Cook County Jail from 1997 until he resigned in September 2004.

In July of that year, theft charges were leveled against him for allegedly transporting 14 pallets of stolen DVDs worth $845,000 from Memphis to Chicago. Those state charges were later superseded by a federal indictment, which named four other defendants.

Law-enforcement sources said there appeared to be a link between Forrest's shooting and his federal court case.

When Forrest was shot, he was wearing an FBI wire, an agency spokesman said.

Agents monitoring the weapon deal that went awry did not hear gunshots, the spokesman said.

Advertisement

The agents approached Forrest's vehicle after Henderson allegedly fled with the money, and they found Forrest had been shot, the spokesman said.

Henderson, meanwhile, got in his car and drove off, Dolton police said.

Henderson lives alone but has four daughters, two in Illinois and two in another state, said his attorney, Robert Willis. He works for a local construction company, Willis said.

In 2000, Henderson was convicted of aggravated vehicle theft conspiracy for a 1999 Cook County crime and was sentenced to eight years in prison, according to prosecutors and public records.

----------

hdardick@tribune.com