L E B A N O N, Tenn. -- A 61-year-old man was shot to death by

police while his wife was handcuffed in another room during a drug

raid on the wrong house.

Police admitted their mistake, saying faulty information from adrug informant contributed to the death of John Adams Wednesdaynight. They intended to raid the home next door.

The two officers, 25-year-old Kyle Shedran and 24-year-old GregDay, were placed on administrative leave with pay.

“They need to get rid of those men, boys with toys,” saidAdams’ 70-year-old widow, Loraine.

John Adams was watching television when his wife heard poundingon the door. Police claim they identified themselves and worepolice jackets. Loraine Adams said she had no indication the menwere police.

“I thought it was a home invasion. I said ‘Baby, get yourgun!,” she said, sitting amid friends and relatives gathered ather home to cook and prepare for Sunday’s funeral.

Resident Fired First

Police say her husband fired first with a sawed-off shotgun andthey responded. He was shot at least three times and died later atVanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.

Loraine Adams said she was handcuffed and thrown to her knees inanother room when the shooting began.

“I said, ‘Y’all have got the wrong person, you’ve got the wrongplace. What are you looking for?“‘

“We did the best surveillance we could do, and a mistake wasmade,” Lebanon Police Chief Billy Weeks said. “It’s a very severemistake, a costly mistake. It makes us look at our own policies andprocedures to make sure this never occurs again.” He said,however, the two policemen were not at fault.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is investigating. NAACPofficials said they are monitoring the case. Adams was black. Thetwo policemen are white.

Family members did not consider race a factor and Weeks agreed,but said the shooting will be “a major setback” for policerelations with the black community.

“We know that, we hope to do everything we can to heal it,”Weeks said.

Johnny Crudup, a local NAACP official, said the organizationwanted to make sure and would investigate on its own.

Weeks said he has turned the search warrant and all otherevidence over to the bureau of investigation and District AttorneyGeneral Tommy Thompson. A command officer must now review allsearch warrants.