Related:

• Indicted Washtenaw County Sheriff's deputies used to teach proper use of force

Moments before he ended up unconscious on the ground, Clifton "Pete" Lee Jr. began to walk away from a confrontation with police officers who had stopped a relative's car a block from his home, court documents show.

Instead of letting him walk away, Washtenaw County Sheriff's Deputies Aaron Hendricks and Joseph Eberle went after Lee in an attempt to arrest him for interfering with police. Within the next few minutes, Lee was dead.

Now, nearly two years later, Eberle and two other officers from the sheriff's department face federal charges for allegedly violating the rights of Lee and one of his brothers who says he was severely beaten. Federal prosecutors leveled the most serious charges against Eberle, who faces up to life in prison if convicted.Although what happened the night of June 1, 2006, largely remains unknown, court documents filed in recent weeks provide new details about the government's case and who is likely to testify when the three officers go on trial.

Hendricks, who has not been criminally charged, appears to be a key witness for prosecutors. His testimony is important, according to the court documents, because patrol car videos did not capture some portions of the encounter.

Once fast-tracked for jury selection this week, the trials for Eberle, Sgt. Shawn Hoy and Deputy Eric Kelly will likely be delayed for months due to the volume of reports and records compiled during the investigations, attorneys said.

Eberle was federally indicted on charges of using excessive force on Clifton Lee. Kelly and Hoy are charged with using unreasonable force on his brother, Bruce Lee. Hoy, as a supervisor, also is accused of failing to stop and prevent the use of unreasonable force by Kelly.

Defense attorneys said they recently received nearly 3,000 pages of investigative reports and medical records, and about a dozen DVDs of video tape footage and computerized records as they prepare for trial.

That doesn't include transcripts from 25 witnesses who reportedly testified before the grand jury, critical material that may not be available for several more weeks, said Ray Cassar, Kelly's attorney.

It's widely believed that Hendricks testified before the grand jury. Although court documents don't explicitly say he has immunity, Hendricks has invoked his right against self-incrimination during pretrial hearings, a telltale sign of an arrangement, said Rick Convertino, a former federal prosecutor who is now representing Eberle and Hoy.

Hendricks' attorney could not be reached for comment. Hendricks was not criminally charged, but was named in a federal wrongful death lawsuit filed by Lee's family and was suspended from the department.

A pretrial motion filed by prosecutors last month indicates that Hendricks was close to the incident and can provide important testimony of what he saw and heard fellow deputies do while they tried to restrain Lee and his brother.

Lee, 45, died from what medical examiners deemed asphyxiation by respiratory restriction. Bruce Lee was injured in a separate but related confrontation.

The incident began when Hendricks and former Deputy Christopher Campbell stopped a car driven by James Lee a few blocks from his home near the corner of Cayuga Street and Eugene Avenue in Ypsilanti Township's West Willow neighborhood.

According to newly released court documents, James Lee's uncles, Clifton and Bruce Lee, walked to the scene and stood across the street when deputies ordered them to leave. Bruce Lee refused to go and was arrested, prompting a heated verbal exchange between Clifton Lee and Hendricks while the deputy radioed for back-up, documents said.

Eberle was the first deputy to respond and got out of his car to assist Hendricks in arresting Lee, who had begun to walk away, documents show.

The camera from Eberle's car didn't record the initial physical encounter, but moments later, Lee's torso is seen on the ground with Hendricks and Eberle each holding an arm, documents say. Grand jury indictments unsealed in March charge that Eberle struck Clifton Lee, kneeled on his neck and used unreasonable force.

Contact reporter Art Aisner at aaisner@annarbornews.com

or 734-994-6823.

The court documents also note that state police Troopers Eric Byerly and Joseph Brodeur were physically involved in Lee's arrest, but no further details were provided.

After placing Lee in handcuffs, the officers got off his body, which was motionless, documents indicate.

Brodeur checked for vital signs and signaled he could not find a pulse, documents said. Paramedics were unable to revive Lee.

The documents indicate Byerly and Brodeur are also expected to testify at trial.

It's unclear in the documents whether the patrol car cameras recorded the exchange with Bruce Lee. Kelly is accused of kicking Bruce Lee while Hoy allegedly struck and used pepper spray on the 32-year-old.

The patrol car tapes have never been made public, but are likely to be a key piece of evidence at the trial. Federal prosecutors declined to discuss the recent court documents and said the tapes will not become public until the trial.

Cassar wouldn't discuss specifics of the case, but said Kelly wants to be vindicated at trial as part of his effort to move on with his life.

The eight-year-department veteran has returned to school and is looking for a career change, Cassar said without elaborating.

"He's looking to get into a different career and wishes this was past him, but we'll take it one step at a time," Cassar said. "This was a situation that unfortunately escalated, and we're eager to tell our story to a jury."

Convertino minimized the importance of Hendricks' testimony and emphasized the gaps in the video. He also cautioned that the legal briefs and video can't provide the full context of what the deputies thought and felt at the time - elements, he said, that will be critical for a jury to consider at trial.

"If that's the key to the case, I don't know what lock they're trying to open," he said. "This will be about the interpretation of how they handled the situation."

Hendricks, Eberle and Kelly were placed on administrative leave immediately after the incident, and Hoy has been on leave for more than a year. An internal investigation into possible violations of departmental policies is still pending, said Sheriff's Cmdr. Dave Egeler.

The three officers pleaded not guilty at arraignment and were freed on unsecured $10,000 bond. The charges against Kelly and Hoy carry a maximum penalty of 10 years.

The wrongful death lawsuit filed by Lee's family against the county was recently settled for $4 million.