OXNARD, Calif. — After celebrating her son's wedding on Sunday, Cindy Conolly wanted to soak up a little more California sun before heading back home to Iowa.

So she stayed behind by the Oxnard surf Monday afternoon when her fiance Bob Pierson walked back to their beachfront hotel.

Advertisement

She didn't return to the hotel, and it would be an agonizing six hours before Pierson found out what had happened.

Oxnard police officers on a routine beach patrol in a sport-utility vehicle had run over and killed his 49-year-old sweetheart as she sunbathed.

Advertisement

An autopsy showed that Conolly was killed by crushing injuries to her head and chest, said Mike Feiler, a senior deputy medical examiner in the coroner's office. She probably died immediately, he said.

"This is a tragic, tragic event," said Oxnard Police Cmdr. Tom Chronister. "We've been patrolling beaches for at least 30 years, since the mid-1970s, and nothing like this has ever happened."

The two officers involved in the incident have been placed on administrative leave pending investigations.

Oxnard police spokesman David Keith described the driver of the SUV as a nine-year veteran of the department and "one of the nicest guys around." The other officer has been with the department for 20 years, he said.

Clad in a light blue swimsuit, Conolly was lying near the shoreline, just below a 2-foot-high berm formed by the waves. The officers told investigators they were looking at someone in the water and never saw Conolly as they rolled the SUV down the gentle slope and turned right.

Unaware that they had hit anything, the officers continued driving north along the shoreline and had reached nearby city streets by the time they got a call a few minutes later about a woman bleeding on the beach, Chronister said.

He said it wasn't until they returned to the site that they realized what had happened, and by then Conolly was dead.

Patty Arthur said she and her husband were body-boarding in the ocean when the accident occurred. Both of them tried to help Conolly and were still there when the officers arrived.

Advertisement

"The officer, I know he is accountable," Arthur said of the SUV's driver. "But he was a mess. He had his head in his hands and was sobbing."

Feiler said Conolly appeared to have been lying face down when she was struck. She was not wearing headphones, but she probably never knew the truck was coming, he said.

"You've got the combination of the crashing surf and the ocean breeze to muffle sounds," he said. "Maybe she was using the berm to break the wind."

Authorities were unable to notify the family immediately because Conolly had no identification on her, Chronister said. Police and coroner's officials surmised she was staying at the Embassy Suites Mandalay Beach Resort because she had two small white hotel-style towels with her, he said.

They informed the desk clerk about what had happened and asked him to tell anyone looking for a missing woman to call police, Chronister said.

After hours of worrying about her, Conolly's fiance and other family members finally checked with the hotel's desk after 8 p.m., Chronister said. Other family members may have learned the news from the reporters they bumped into as they searched the beach for Conolly, he said.

Advertisement

"They were looking around for her, and a KABC reporter connected the dots," Chronister said.

Her family members on the scene declined to talk to reporters.

Relatives in Iowa described the mother of two grown children as reserved but happy. Conolly had weathered two divorces and was living in Sioux City with her fiance, said Dolores Conolly, her ex-mother-in-law.

"Even though she and my son split up, I always had a soft spot in my heart for her," Dolores Conolly said. "She was a good housekeeper and loved to cook."

Julie Conolly, a former sister-in-law, said Cindy Conolly was "an incredible person. She cared for everybody." The wedding was in Oxnard because the bride's family is from the Southern California area, she added.

Witnesses said the officers' SUV, a Chevy Tahoe, was going 5 to 10 m.p.h. when it struck Conolly.

Advertisement

"At this point, the civilian witnesses said speed was not a factor," Chronister said.

Beach accidents involving vehicles have occurred before in Southern California, but they are rare. In 1979, a Paris engineer was killed on the beach in Santa Monica when a maintenance truck ran over his head while he was napping.

And in 1986, a woman was critically injured when a 4-ton beach tractor rammed into her on Redondo Beach.