Houston Police Department > News Releases Incident at 2820 Hillcroft June 21, 2006 -- Houston police are investigating the fatal shooting of a bank robbery suspect at 2820 Hillcroft about 9:20 a.m. on Monday (June 19). The suspect, Erika Tyrone (DOB 9-21-77), was transported to Memorial Hermann

Southwest Hospital with a gunshot wound to the stomach. She was pronounced dead at the hospital. HPD Homicide Division Sergeant B. Harris and Officer T.J. McCorvey reported: Officers responded to a robbery-in progress call at the Wells Fargo Bank, 2824 Hillcroft, and arrived within minutes. After arriving first, Officer K.M. Crellin was given a description of the female suspect by the bank manager and was told that she was seen entering the Jack-in-the-Box restaurant across the street. Officer Crellin then gave the information over the police radio to responding officers. As secondary Officer R.L. Curl arrived, he and Officer Crellin approached the restaurant. Officers could see and hear numerous small children and adults running and screaming to the bathroom area of the restaurant. Officers were concerned that the female would get to the area where the small children were hiding when they entered the business. Officer Crellin saw the suspect point a gun at Officer Curl, who was entering the store through the front door. Officer Curl fired a shot at the suspect, then heard another shot. The second shot came from Officer Crellin, who struck the suspect on her side. Officer Crellin then saw the suspect raise her gun again looking for Officer Curl. Officer Crellin again fired his weapon and struck the suspect a second time on her side. Paramedics then transported the suspect to the hospital. It was discovered the gun the suspect had was an air pistol that looked like a Colt .45. The suspect also left a note at the scene indicating her actions might have been a planned suicide. Officers Crellin and Curl are assigned to the Westside Patrol Division. Officer Crellin was sworn in as an officer in May 1980 while Officer Curl was sworn in as an officer in October 1991. Neither officer was injured during the incident. As is customary in officer-involved shootings in the city limits, the HPD Homicide and Internal Affairs Divisions and the Harris County District Attorney's office are investigating the case. GO/JFC 6-21-06

Inc# 095120206 For additional information, please contact the HPD Public Affairs Division at 713-308-3200.