ELDORA — While parents of a 23-year-old who died in police custody say they are upset with the news that officers involved are back on duty, city officials point to preliminary autopsy results that show no evidence of police misconduct.

Eldora police chased Brian Gregory Jr. on June 29 through the mobile home park where he lived. The officers were serving an arrest warrant for an alleged parole violation when Gregory started running.

Witnesses say an officer tackled Gregory from behind and put an arm around his neck in a move they described as a choke hold. They also say Gregory’s head hit a parked car as he was taken down.

The man’s father, Brian Gregory Sr., saw part of the incident. He caught up in time to see two officers sitting on his son, who was handcuffed.

Gregory Sr. said he wants changes made in police procedures prohibiting officers from using choke holds and sitting on those they apprehend.

The cause of death is not known.

Gregory Jr. resisted arrest, according to neighbors and Hardin County Attorney Randall Tilton, who is overseeing an investigation by the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation.

Tilton declined additional comment, saying the matter has been referred to the Iowa Attorney General’s Office for review.

The names of the officers involved are also being withheld pending conclusion of the investigation. But Gregory family members identified them as Officers Ted Paxton and “Skip” Earhart, who are listed on the Eldora Police Department’s roster of officers.

Gregory Sr. said he, family members and friends have scheduled a picket demonstration for 3 p.m. today at the Hardin County Courthouse in Eldora to protest Eldora Police Chief Dave Twedt’s decision not to put the officers on administrative leave until conclusion of the DCI investigation.

Eldora City Attorney David Dunn said the two officers were on more than two weeks’ leave, but have since been put back on active duty.

“There was nothing beyond reasonable force used to apprehend this fleeing suspect,” Dunn said. “The assumption is there’s fault on the part of the officers. But that’s just not the case. This is a very tragic situation for the family as well as the officers and the Police Department. Mr. Gregory is understandably upset. You don’t want any death involving a youngster. He’s got to vent at somebody, but it shouldn’t be at the expense of public misconception.”

Dunn stressed that the investigation is still ongoing, and that the Police Department does not have a policy that deals with situations where deaths occur during police apprehension.

“Because we don’t have deaths here; but we’ll be adopting something like that coming out of this,” he said.

Tom Barton is a reporter for the Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier, a Lee Enterprises newspaper. Reach him at (319) 291-1570 or tom.barton@wcfcourier.com