SHARE

By Stephanie Hoops

District Attorney Greg Totten issued a report Friday concluding that a Ventura County sheriff's deputy did not cause the death of a 33-year-old Oxnard man when he shot him with three beanbag rounds last summer.

Raymond Hopper "died from a cardiac arrhythmia, brought upon by Mr. Hopper's physical exertion and his acute methamphetamine intoxication," the 56-page report concludes.

Hopper, high on drugs, had a pregnant wife at home when he left her side for the last time on July 9, 2006, the report found. The self-employed electrician had a history of drug problems, according to his family's statements to investigators.

Neither Hopper's mother, Mary Schenick of Camarillo, nor his wife, Teresa Hopper of Oxnard, could be reached for comment.

On the morning of Hopper's death, he was high and hallucinating when he jumped off the second-story balcony of their apartment building and headed barefoot to his truck, his wife told investigators.

Teresa, who was seven months pregnant, said Hopper had been seeing things and believed the mafia and UFOs were watching him. He also said he was dead and asked her if he was in heaven, according to the district attorney's report.

She was unable to calm him down, and he eventually fled from the apartment, going first to St. John's Regional Medical Center in Oxnard, where he caused a scene in the emergency room, the report says.

He managed to leave the hospital in his truck, even though hospital staffers struggled to grab his keys and stop him.

He wound up at Adolfo and Flynn roads in Camarillo, where he got on the trunk of a car driven by Patricia Walsh, 77. Sheriff's Deputy Sean Eskridge was already there when Walsh pulled up to the intersection, on her way home from church. The deputy had been trying to get Hopper out of the street. Eskridge was called to the scene by reports that a barefoot man was trying to flag down cars and was hitting them with his hands.

When Walsh arrived, Hopper grabbed a metal construction sign, jumped on her car and broke the windshield. He reached through, grabbing at her and pulling out a chunk of her hair.

That's when Eskridge shot Hopper with beanbag rounds, from a distance of about 12 feet, the report says. It took four people to get Hopper on the ground and handcuffed. According to Eskridge, five to 10 seconds after Hopper was secured, he turned blue.

A paramedic was there, but resuscitation attempts failed, according to the report.

The District Attorney's Office says it considered 13 witness statements, toxicology and autopsy reports and other evidence in making its determination.