Two Brooklyn cops who were involved in a fatal hit-and-run accident - and didn't stop to help the victim - may duck criminal charges, the Daily News has learned.

The officers were chasing a speeding motorcyclist, Bobby Roman, in Bedford-Stuyvesant on July 9 when the Kawasaki clipped a vehicle it was trying to pass, according to a law enforcement official and court records.

Advertisement

Roman, 26, was thrown from the bike into a building at Fulton St. and Spencer Place and killed - but the patrol car and the car that was clipped never stopped.

The action was caught by a police surveillance video mounted near the scene, which triggered a probe by prosecutors and NYPD Internal Affairs, said a spokesman for Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes.

Advertisement

Yet it appears the cops, who were not named in the court record, will not be charged with a crime.

"The district attorney's office determined the officers could not be charged with leaving the scene of an accident," the spokesman, Jerry Schmetterer, told The News. "Under current New York State law, their car would have had to have been directly involved in the actual accident."

Instead, the cops - who have been placed on modified duty - are more likely to face severe disciplinary action for not stopping to aid the victim, Schmetterer added.

Roman's estate is suing the city over the accident, and the lawyer said the cops deserve to be stripped of their badges.

"Assuming what the district attorney is saying is accurate, if the officers left him to die without providing assistance, that was inhuman and shows they're not fit to be police," said lawyer Ted Kessler.

Kessler and the city have been fighting in Brooklyn Federal Court over the video and documents related to the probe.

City lawyer Alan Scheiner asked a federal magistrate last week to remove the Police Department accident investigation report from the public court file.

The document, which was filed by Kessler and obtained by The News, states Roman's motorcycle was "apparently being pursued by a police vehicle."

Advertisement

The city is arguing that disclosure of the evidence would be "harmful" because it could tip off "potential suspects" in the hit-and-run case.

The cops never put a call about the chase over the air, so it's unclear why they were pursuing Roman, who lived in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.

Roman's mother, Anixa Lopez, wants to see for herself what happened. "I need to see that video to prove to me it wasn't them," she said, referring to the cops.



jmarzulli@nydailynews.com