Shooting justified, official says.

Page/Link: Page URL: Page URL: HTML link: <a href="https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Shooting+justified%2c+official+says.-a0148686025</a> HTML link: Citations: MLA style: "Shooting justified, official says.." The Free Library . 2006 The Register Guard 01 Aug. 2023 "Shooting justified, official says..". 2006 The Register Guard 01 Aug. 2023 https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Shooting+justified%2c+official+says.-a0148686025

Chicago style: The Free Library. S.v. Shooting justified, official says.." Retrieved Aug 01 2023 from The Free Library. S.v. Shooting justified, official says.." Retrieved Aug 01 2023 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Shooting+justified%2c+official+says.-a0148686025

APA style: Shooting justified, official says.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 01 2023 from Shooting justified, official says.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 01 2023 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Shooting+justified%2c+official+says.-a0148686025

Byline: Rebecca Nolan The Register-GuardArchie Willie Churchill III was a wanted felon armed with a stolen gun who had told friends and family that he never would return to prison.Springfield police officer Brian Gay knew none of that when he decided to stop the motorcycle Churchill was driving Thursday afternoon.Churchill fled, crashed the bike and scuffled with Gay, who fired four bullets at Churchill when the wanted man pulled a gun from the waistband of his pants and raised it toward the officer.Churchill, 31, died on the street where he fell. Investigators found one round in the stolen .40-caliber gun he carried.Chief Deputy Lane County District Attorney Alex Gardner on Friday said the officer reacted properly."His use of deadly force was necessary, appropriate and lawful," Gardner said at a press conference in the Lane County courthouse.Gay is on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of an Oregon State Police probe and an internal investigation.He has been a Springfield officer for 19 years and never had used his weapon before Thursday, Springfield Police Chief Jerry Smith said.Churchill had a long list of convictions for drug possession, domestic violence and illegal weapon possession, according to court records. He previously had served time in the Snake River Correctional Institution in Ontario and had told friends and family that he would not return, officials said."This involves a man who had an outstanding felony warrant who said he didn't want to go back to prison," Gardner said.Churchill had been wanted on the warrant for more than a month when the motorcycle officer saw him blow through a red light at the intersection of Centennial Boulevard and Mill Street on Thursday. He was driving the motorcycle of a friend who had been arrested earlier in the day, Gardner said.Churchill sped south on Mill Street when the police officer activated his lights and siren.The brief pursuit ended when Churchill ran a second red light at Main Street and crashed the motorcycle, bringing commuter traffic to a halt.He ignored the officer's orders to get on the ground and did not submit when Gay hit him with a police baton, witnesses and police said. Gay fired four times when Churchill pulled the gun from the front of his pants. Police did not know how many times he was hit. An autopsy is planned for today."It was a standard and appropriate escalation of force," Gardner said. "This was a case where the officer exercised exceptional restraint."Churchill's father, Archie Willie Churchill II, was murdered in March 1992 while visiting a home on Kourt Drive off River Road. He was 40.His killer, Robert Norman Shepard of Culp Creek, surrendered to the Eugene SWAT team after a 5 1/2-hour standoff with Lane County sheriff's deputies.The younger Churchill was 17 at the time.