A spur-of-the-moment decision to go out on a date turned into a frightening ride in a U-Haul truck as it sped through a police roadblock and three stoplights before a crash that killed a suburban teenager, a former cell phone sales rep testified Tuesday.

Two other teens were injured -- one so severely that he can't remember his earlier life -- in the collision two years ago at Dundee and Schoenbeck Roads, in Wheeling.

Advertisement

The driver of the truck -- Ralph O. Lewis, 28, formerly of Springfield -- is on trial in the Rolling Meadows branch of Cook County Circuit Court on first-degree murder, unlawful restraint, theft and other charges.

"I was yelling: 'Let me out! Slow down.' And that he was going to kill us," said Daysha Freeman, 21, who had met Lewis earlier in the day when he bought five cell phones from her at a kiosk in the Gurnee Mills shopping center. She agreed to go out with him when she got off work.

Advertisement

Authorities said Lewis was fleeing police on July 23, 2006, after trying to use a fraudulent credit card and phony identification to buy thousands of dollars in merchandise from a Home Depot in Gurnee.

The truck, which was going westbound on Dundee Road in the pursuit, hit a Ford Taurus, which was going northbound on Schoenbeck.

Killed in the crash was Corey Diamond, 16, of Arlington Heights. He was in the passenger seat.

Diamond's two friends, driver Elliott Cellini, 18, of Buffalo Grove, and Brandon Forshall, 18, of Wheeling were injured. All three were students at Buffalo Grove High School. Freeman testified that she heard sirens as she was sitting between Lewis and another man in the truck, which prosecutors said was stolen, as it headed from Gurnee toward Chicago on Interstate Highway 94. She said Lewis began driving faster and swerving around traffic.

As the truck sped away on the interstate, she said she wanted out, but Lewis refused to pull over, she testified. She said she called 911 on her cell phone before Lewis exited the interstate.

Lewis refused to slow for a police roadblock, forcing officers to back up their cars, and drove through three red lights, Freeman said.

"Then he hit that car," she said.

Defense lawyers acknowledge that Lewis was behind the wheel, but they say he did not intend to kill Diamond.

Advertisement

"At worst, Ralph Lewis is a man who lives by his wits, like the Artful Dodger, to provide for his family," Assistant Public Defender Calvin Aguilar said during opening statements.

But prosecutors argued that Lewis knew that fleeing police was dangerous, noting that he drove through red lights at speeds of 80 m.p.h. and forced oncoming traffic off the road as he swerved from side to side.

"The boys had no idea that a 10,000-pound bullet was aimed straight at them," Assistant State's Atty. Karen Crothers said during her opening statements. "The defendant knew it. There's a name for what the defendant did. It is first-degree murder."

Cellini, who suffered a traumatic brain injury and was in a coma for three weeks, has no memory of his life before the crash.

"I have been told I played baseball, basketball, bowling and was part of the show choir. But I don't remember that," Cellini told jurors in the courtroom of Judge Thomas Fecarotta Jr.

A high school musician and honor student, Cellini walks with a cane and can no longer use his right arm. He continues to undergo rehabilitation.

Advertisement

"Elliott is a walking miracle," said Diamond's mother, Melanie, as she left court after also testifying Tuesday. "Our families have become one family."

She said she and her husband, Ed, were in the room with their son at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington Heights when he was pronounced dead.

"I kissed him and told him I loved him," she said.