VANDALIA - The shooting of a Vandalia man wielding two swords on July 26 by Fayette County sheriff's deputy Shawn Carter was justifiable use of force, according to State's Attorney Stephen Friedel.

Shane M. Gould, 28, was pronounced dead at Fayette County Hospital at 1:30 a.m. July 26 after his confrontation with the deputy at Fifth and Randolph streets in what authorities are calling a "suicide by cop."

Fayette County Sheriff Harold C. Johnson said Tuesday in a news release that Carter would be returned to duty as soon as possible. Carter had been placed on administrative leave pending completion of an investigation into the shooting by Illinois State Police and Friedel.

"It appears that Mr. Gould was a troubled individual that was looking to provoke a deputy in an attempt to commit suicide. Unfortunately for Shawn, he was the deputy that responded to the call," Johnson said. "When a person is intent on committing 'suicide by cop,' there is not much choice for the officer to do anything other than defend himself."

In a letter to Johnson, Friedel said based on investigators' reports he could give an accurate account of what occurred in the early hours of July 26.

Carter, another deputy sheriff and an off-duty Vandalia police officer responded to reports of an aggravated assault where citizens were being threatened by a man with multiple swords, Friedel said. The suspect approached Carter, who was carrying a .233-caliber rifle, in an aggressive and threatening manner, he said.

Carter aimed the rifle at the man and gave him multiple verbal warnings to stop his threatening behavior, Friedel said. The suspect informed Carter he was not going to heed his warnings while advancing to within seven to eight feet of the deputy, Friedel said.

"The suspect approached to a distance where the suspect became capable of engaging in an act that could have caused death or great bodily harm to deputy Carter, and deputy Carter fired one round striking the suspect in the head and causing the suspect to fall to the ground," Friedel said.

A witness told investigators that in conversation with Gould just hours prior to the shooting, Gould indicated he was going to contact the sheriff's office and engage a deputy and would be "dead by morning," Friedel said. Two witnesses said Gould had been drinking prior to the confrontation, he said.

Shooting Gould in the head was consistent with Carter's training and was appropriate under the circumstances, Friedel said.

Ron Ingram can be reached at ringram@herald-review.com or 421-7973.