Events in the Ryan Wilson case Aug. 4, 2006 — Ryan Wilson, 22, dies after he is Tasered by Lafayette police officer John Harris when confronted about a marijuana grow near Hecla Lake. Police said Wilson ran from officers and tried to reach into his pocket against police orders, prompting the Taser shot. Aug. 14, 2006 — The coroner rules that Wilson’s cause of death was an irregular heartbeat caused by a combination of exertion, the stun-gun shock and a heart condition present since birth. Oct. 17, 2006 — The DA’s Office declines to file charges against Harris. July 14, 2007 — Lafayette police clear Harris after an internal investigation. Aug. 1, 2007 — Ryan Wilson’s father, Jack Wilson, files suit in Boulder District Court against Harris and Taser International. Aug. 2, 2007 — Ryan Wilson’s mother, Wendy Wilson, files suit in Boulder District Court against Harris, former Lafayette Police Chief Paul Schultz and Taser International. Nov. 13, 2007 — Both lawsuits are combined and moved to federal court. March 31, 2010 — A federal judge dismisses all claims against Harris, Schultz and Lafayette. Aug. 3, 2011 — The Wilsons reach an out-of-court settlement with Taser International. Terms of the settlement are not disclosed. Sept. 1, 2011 — The Wilsons file an appeal with the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals asking for a trial on excessive force claims against Harris. Wednesday — The U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals hears arguments in the case.

More than six years after the death of Ryan Wilson, who was shot by a Lafayette police officer with a Taser following a foot chase, lawyers for the officer and Wilson’s family argued before the U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals on Wednesday about what constitutes excessive force.

Wilson’s parents contend that Lafayette police officer John Harris used excessive force when he fired his stun gun at their son in August 2006 after Wilson was approached about growing marijuana plants near Hecla Lake and ran away from officers.

Lawyers for the family, including mother Wendy Wilson and father Jack Wilson, argue that their son posed no threat to Harris when the officer fired his Taser at him. They claim Ryan Wilson was shot in the back of the head or neck by the Taser.

“When Officer Harris fired his Taser, it’s undisputed that he was firing at the back of Ryan Wilson,” Mike Thomson, Wendy Wilson’s lawyer, told the appellate judges.

Thomson said Lafayette should have provided Harris with the proper training on how to use a Taser in a non-lethal manner, especially given the fact that complaints previously had been received about Harris’ use of the device.

The family wants its case against Harris, former Lafayette Police Chief Paul Schultz and the city of Lafayette to go to a jury.

In 2010, a federal judge dismissed the case on summary judgment. The Wilsons appealed, resulting in Wednesday’s arguments before the three-judge panel in a special session held at the University of Colorado School of Law.

Harris’ attorney, J. Andrew Nathan, argued that Wilson was disobeying orders not to reach into his pocket, where a folded knife was later found. He said Harris was reacting in split-second fashion to someone he perceived as a threat, and his actions were consistent with how any law enforcement officer would have reacted at that moment in those circumstances.

Nathan said Harris had no intention of killing Wilson, just disabling him, and that his client is entitled to the protection of qualified immunity as a law enforcement officer.

“Officer Harris said he was not shooting at the head, and there is no evidence that he was trying to shoot at the head,” Nathan said.

But Chief Judge Mary Beck Briscoe repeatedly asked Nathan whether, at the very least, Harris’ actions constituted recklessness.

She also seemed interested in whether it was certain that Wilson was shot from 10 to 15 feet away and whether he was reaching into his pocket at the time he was shot. Judge Scott M. Matheson asked whether Wilson was moving away from police or had turned to face them in the seconds before the Taser was fired.

Both attorneys had 15 minutes to make their arguments before the judges. After the hearing, Nathan said he felt he made the best case he could, given the fact that the attorneys had to focus their attention on answering the judges’ questions.

Thomson also felt that he had gotten the chance to air his client’s position.

“I felt like we were able to get our arguments in and that the judges had probing questions,” he said. “But I know from experience not to get overconfident.”

Lafayette City Administrator Gary Klaphake, who attended the hearing along with Police Chief Rick Bashor and the city’s attorneys, said now it is time to await a ruling from the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals.

“So far we’ve prevailed, so we’ll see,” he said.

A ruling may not come until next year.

The Wilsons came to an out-of-court settlement with the stun-gun manufacturer, Taser International, last year. The terms of the settlement have not been disclosed.

Contact Camera Staff Writer John Aguilar at 303-473-1389 or aguilarj@dailycamera.com.