A man who was killed by Placer County sheriff's deputies wielded a fake firearm altered to appear like a real handgun, authorities said Tuesday.The man was identified as 36-year-old Nicholas Benjamin Salisbury, of Auburn, the Placer County Sheriff’s Office said.An apparent suicide note was found among his personal belongings, the Sheriff's Office said.Salisbury called 911 early Sunday and told dispatchers he was armed with a gun and planned to shoot people at a rehab facility in Auburn. He was a resident of the facility, according to Placer County Lt. Andrew Scott.| RELATED | Man killed in deputy-involved shooting in Placer CountySalisbury also said he was under the influence of speed and marijuana.Deputies later tracked down the man in North Auburn, holding what authorities at the time said they believed was a real firearm.According to the Sheriff's Office, deputies tried to negotiate with Salisbury and ordered him to drop his gun. "He refused to obey their orders and raised the weapon towards the deputies," the Sheriff's Office earlier said.No other details were released.If you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts, the Suicide Prevention Lifeline is available 24 hours a day at 1-800-273-8255.

A man who was killed by Placer County sheriff's deputies wielded a fake firearm altered to appear like a real handgun, authorities said Tuesday.

The man was identified as 36-year-old Nicholas Benjamin Salisbury, of Auburn, the Placer County Sheriff’s Office said.

Advertisement

An apparent suicide note was found among his personal belongings, the Sheriff's Office said.

This content is imported from Twitter. You may be able to find the same content in another format, or you may be able to find more information, at their web site.

[UPDATE]: Officer involved shooting



The name of the decedent in the Sunday morning officer involved shooting is Nicholas Benjamin Salisbury, 36, of Auburn.



The firearm recovered was in fact a replica firearm altered to appear realistic.



More: https://t.co/HZVFTY6Y9v pic.twitter.com/FIHLOdFfyp — Placer Sheriff (@PlacerSheriff) October 9, 2018

Salisbury called 911 early Sunday and told dispatchers he was armed with a gun and planned to shoot people at a rehab facility in Auburn. He was a resident of the facility, according to Placer County Lt. Andrew Scott.

| RELATED | Man killed in deputy-involved shooting in Placer County

Salisbury also said he was under the influence of speed and marijuana.

Deputies later tracked down the man in North Auburn, holding what authorities at the time said they believed was a real firearm.

According to the Sheriff's Office, deputies tried to negotiate with Salisbury and ordered him to drop his gun.

"He refused to obey their orders and raised the weapon towards the deputies," the Sheriff's Office earlier said.

No other details were released.

If you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts, the Suicide Prevention Lifeline is available 24 hours a day at 1-800-273-8255.