Officer Daniel Sperry shot Bruce A. Graham, 67, of Can~on City four times on Oct. 19 after Graham lit a fire in a parking lot adjacent to the Cripple Creek police building. A day earlier, Cripple Creek police had arrested Graham for driving under the influence of alcohol.

Sperry and a dispatcher, Krystal Mason, were walking out of the building about 10:16 p.m. when they spotted Graham spraying a liquid that smelled like gasoline toward the ground and toward the rear of some police cruisers.

Graham had a tank in the bed of his pickup and a wand had been routed through the back window of his pickup truck and out the driver's side window, enabling him to spray the accelerant while driving.

Sperry asked Graham what he was doing, and Graham said something to the effect of "I'm going to burn this place down," according to a press release issued by Dave Gilbert, a chief trial deputy.

Sperry ordered Graham to stop, but Graham continued to point the hose toward the officer, the dispatcher, the parked cars and the building. The fire flashed.

"It did present a danger to people outside based on the fire's proximity to them," Gilbert said.

Sperry fired five times, with two bullets striking Graham. Sperry ordered Graham to get out of the truck. Then, Sperry saw Graham raise a rifle. Sperry shot Graham two more times.

Graham had Valium and alcohol in his system, according to the DA's office. During a search of Graham's house in Fremont County, investigators found a blue plastic bag containing Graham's important documents, family pictures, $240 in cash and a note written by Graham asking that his dog be taken care of.

Asked whether he believed Graham's actions constituted what is known as "suicide by cop," Gilbert said: "I'm not going to theorize. My job was to take a look at the evidence and determine whether the shooting was justified or unjustified. That's what I did."

The district attorney's office said a peace officer is justified in using deadly force to protect himself or a third person. Deadly force may also be used to make an arrest of a person who has committed or attempted to commit a felony involving the use of, or threatened use of, a deadly weapon or who indicates he is likely to endanger human life.