ST. LOUIS • A St. Louis man who killed his girlfriend in a 2006 drunken driving crash that also ended a St. Louis police sergeant’s career was charged ﻿Friday with bludgeoning to death his new girlfriend with a baseball bat.

Prosecutors charged Rosevelt Scott, 71, with first-degree murder and armed criminal action.

Police say he argued with his girlfriend Carolyn Richardson, 54, on Thursday evening in her apartment in the 4400 block of Margaretta Avenue and struck her several times in her head with a baseball bat.

Police were called to the home about 6:15 p.m. and found Richardson injured. She was taken to a hospital, where she died.

Scott was arrested at the scene. Investigators did not provide a motive. Bail information was not immediately available for Scott, who police said lived in the apartment with Richardson.

The two began dating a few months ago, according to Crystal Simms, a neighbor and friend of Richardson. She said Richardson, who didn’t work and lived on disability, had an adult son. They sometimes bowled together and recently celebrated their birthdays, Simms said.

“Carolyn was a very kind-hearted person,” Simms said. “She would give you her last.”

She said she wasn’t aware of any problems between Richardson and Scott.

“I feel like I’m in a nightmare,” she said. “It doesn’t seem real to me... He had no right to do what he did. He should have taken a walk to cool off.”

Scott spent nearly four years in prison for 2007 convictions of involuntary manslaughter and second-degree assault on a law enforcement officer after an Aug. 11, 2006, crash, court records say.

Scott, who was drunk, was driving home from a nightclub with his girlfriend in the front passenger seat when he slammed into a St. Louis police cruiser at Natural Bridge and Geraldine avenues about 11:15 p.m.

Scott was driving 51 mph in a 35 mph zone with his headlights off when he struck Officer Jorlon “Tink” Upchurch’s patrol car, court records say. Scott had a blood-alcohol level of 0.178 percent after the crash, more than twice the legal limit to drive in Missouri.

Scott’s girlfriend, Diane Rayford, 33, was killed instantly, police said. Upchurch suffered severe neck injuries and nerve damage in the crash.

Scott was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2007 after pleading guilty to manslaughter and assault. He also got credit for 287 days he spent in jail awaiting trial and was paroled in August 2011 after three years and 10 months in prison.

Upchurch said in an interview Friday that her injuries from the crash forced her to retire in 2009 after nearly 16 years with the department.

Upchurch had aspired to become police chief. She said she was devastated to have to leave law enforcement but proud to have been promoted to sergeant before she retired.

Upchurch now works in loss prevention at the St. Louis Galleria. She she feels lucky to have survived the crash and an encounter with a man who has brought others so much pain.

“If I had an opportunity to talk to him, I’d say, ‘Once again, you’ve altered another woman’s life. Is it ever going to be enough? And whose fault is it now? Once again, it’s you.’”

Scott also received a seven-year prison sentence in Arkansas for a felony battery conviction in 1985.