An Oceanside motorcycle police officer justifiably shot andkilled a parolee in self-defense when the man tried to run him overin a 2006 confrontation in Vista, the district attorney’s officefound this week.

Officer Clint Bussey leapt off his motorcycle to escape harmwhen the suspect, Josue Narvaez Garcia, threw a stolen PT Cruiserinto reverse, authorities said.

It happened in the tight confines of a Vista apartment complexparking lot after Bussey pulled Garcia over, according to a lettersent to Oceanside police this week by the county’s top prosecutor,District Attorney Bonnie Dumanis.

Advertisement

While diving out of the path of the coming car, Bussey firedthrough its back window, striking Garcia in the back, the letterstates. One of the bullets, according to authorities, perforatedGarcia’s lungs.

“Officer Bussey, fearing for his life and believing he was goingto be struck by the PT Cruiser, was faced with a split-seconddecision and fired multiple gunshots at Mr. Garcia inself-defense,” reads the letter, which Dumanis’ office sent toOceanside police Tuesday.

Garcia had methamphetamine in his system, according to theautopsy findings, the letter stated. The 23-year-old Vista residenthad arrests for drug charges and car theft in his five-yearcriminal history as an adult, court records showed.

He was on parole at the time of his death.

And Garcia was the target of a temporary restraining order,which his pregnant ex-girlfriend had won weeks earlier afteraccusing Garcia of physical abuse and drug use. Garcia didn’tappear at the restraining order hearing.

Dumanis’ letter states that Garcia had said he didn’t want toreturn to prison - relevant to his state of mind on the day of theconfrontation, the letter states, because it may explain why heresisted the officer.

At the time of the shooting, Bussey had been with the OceansidePolice Department for 3 1/2 years.

Dumanis’ legal review of the shooting is done only to determineif the officer should face criminal charges. Her office does notlook at whether police policy and procedure had been followed.

The shooting, which occurred in Vista, was investigated by theOceanside Police Department. An investigator with the districtattorney’s office also responded to the shooting scene

Oceanside police spokesman Lt. Kelan Poorman did not returncalls for comment Wednesday.

The following account of the shooting comes from Dumanis’letter. In it, she references investigative findings including areconstruction of the shooting scene and witness statements.

The owner of the PT Cruiser witnessed the theft and reported itstolen only moments before the deadly encounter.

According to authorities, an Oceanside city worker listening toa police radio happened to spot the stolen car and called police.Bussey quickly responded, followed the car into an apartmentcomplex at 950 Taylor St. in Vista, and ordered the driver tofreeze.

Garcia stopped only when he reached a brick wall; Bussey stoppedabout 15 feet behind him. The two men made eye contact in the sidemirror of the PT Cruiser, the letter states, but Garcia ignoredBussey’s repeated requests.

Bussey drew his gun when he saw the reverse lights go on. Andwhile raising his weapon, he heard the car rev and tires chirp.

He fired a volley of shots while scrambling out of the way. Oneof those bullets was likely the fatal shot.

“ ‘I really thought I was going to get hit and I was … I wasscared,’ ” Bussey told investigators, according to Dumanis’letter.

One unidentified witness, a woman walking through the apartmentcomplex, told investigators it looked like the PT Cruiser was goingto strike the officer.

After the stolen car came to a rest facing Bussey, the officerapproached, his weapon trained on Garcia, and the two men lockedeyes.

Garcia apparently reached for the gear shift with his righthand, according to the letter, and Bussey warned him, “You don’twant to do this.”

Garcia’s left hand dropped near his waistband, the accountstates. When Garcia raised it, Bussey again fired, fearing Garciahad a gun.

Garcia then complied with Bussey’s demands to get out of car,dropped to his knee and laid on the ground with his hands out tohis side.

Paramedics responded; Garcia was pronounced dead at thescene.

Bussey had fired a total of 11 shots. Eleven bullets struck thePT Cruiser, including windows.

- Contact staff writer Teri Figueroa at (760) 631-6624 ortfigueroa@nctimes.com.