PASADENA – A gang member convicted of murder for his role in the 2006 shooting death of the mother of his child was sentenced Thursday to at least 39 years in prison.

Walter Villanueva, 26, was found guilty April 9 of one count of murder, three counts of assault with a firearm and two other charges stemming from a shoot-out that left 21-year-old Erica Hindman dead.

Authorities determined that Hindman was killed by a bullet fired by Pasadena Police Officer Timothy Bundy. Superior Court Judge Teri Schwartz said Thursday that the officer’s actions were justified.

“The officer acted appropriately in firing his weapon,” Schwartz said.

The shoot-out took place at about 1 a.m. Sept. 3, 2006, when witnesses called police and reported that someone was firing a gun at a group of teenagers.

When Bundy arrived in the 1800 block of North Marengo Avenue, he saw Villanueva shooting at a house, prosecutors said.

Villanueva attempted to flee in a car as Bundy fired one shot, which hit Hindman, who sitting in the front seat of Villanueva’s vehicle.

Schwartz said Villanueva was responsible for Hindman’s death because she died while he was engaging in “very deadly and dangerous conduct.”

“This certainly was a planned attack motivated by gang rivalry,” Schwartz said.

She said Villanueva went out that night to find rival African-American gang members and wound up “opening fire on innocent kids.”

Prosecutors said Villanueva was a member of the Northside Pasadena gang, which is primarily Hispanic. Villanueva’s attorney, Csaba Palfi, acknowledged that his client was a gang member.

Schwartz sentenced Villanueva to 15 years to life in prison for the murder count and 24 additional years for the other counts.

“I did not get the impression that he felt any remorse for anything that happened that night,” Schwartz said. “He clearly went out that night looking to kill people.”

Palfi disputed the judge’s characterization of his client, who took the stand to testify on his own behalf.

“I don’t think he was up there crying to put on a show,” Palfi said.

The family of Hindman has sued the city for wrongful death, contending that Bundy should not have fired at Villanueva while he was carrying a passenger.

Deputy District attorney Martin Bean said the verdict in Villanueva’s criminal trial showed the police shooting was warranted.

“Officer Bundy was put in a very difficult position and the jury found that he did the right thing – the only thing he could do to stop the defendant from harming anyone else,” Bean said.

The civil trial against the city is currently taking place in a Los Angeles courtroom, Bean said. Palfi said he will not allow Villanueva to testify.

nathan.mcintire@sgvn.com

(626) 578-6300, Ext. 4475