Two Denham Springs Police officers are now doing better since they were shot Monday answering a domestic disturbance call. Corporal Mathew Martello was hit three times and is said to be still in the hospital in stable condition. Officer David Hooter, who was hit twice, has been released from the hospital. WAFB's Paul Gates has been checking on the alleged shooter's background, and found he had a long police record indicating violence and possession of dangerous weapons.

46-year-old Daniel Annison, Jr. shared homes with his separated parents who lived two houses from each other in Denham Springs. Dan Annison, Daniel's father, told WAFB 9 News that his son has been institutionalized and was released a few months ago. Dan says his adult son was fine, but without his medication he had finally become too much too handle.

On Labor Day, Dan had to call police for help. When they arrived at his front door, Daniel threw open the door and let go with a blaze of gunfire from a .40 caliber handgun.

"The first officer was shot three times and was never able to return fire," according to Denham Springs Police Captain Joe Shumate. "The second officer -- who was also shot twice -- was able to return fire."

Daniel was killed. It was the end to a life troubled by mental problems and his continued violations of the law. Records show some 25 arrests going back for years, including illegal carrying of weapon, criminal damage and disturbing the peace.

In May, Daniel was picked up after walking in public with a gun. The police report says, "The gun was found to be an assault rifle with a fully loaded 30 round clip and one live round in the chamber of the weapon. Annison also had an extra clip and ammo."

Recently, according to Dan Annison, his wife found a gun in their adult son's clothes and hid it. Apparently, he was able to get another one and used it to ambush the two police officers at his door.

"They went to the door very cautiously," said Captain Shumate. "There was a report he had a gun, but they knew in the past he had had guns and he had a knife, so I guess they were being as cautious as they could."

Shumate says it is his opinion that both police officers probably would have been killed had they not been wearing their bulletproof vests.

Reporter: Paul Gates pgates@wafb.com