Bowing to a jury's decision in an emotionally charged trial last fall, the Minneapolis City Council on Friday agreed by unanimous vote to pay $2.19 million to the family of a man shot and killed by two police officers in 2006.

It will be the second-largest award ever paid by the city in a police conduct case, and it follows several defeats for the city's legal office as it fought the lawsuit originally filed by the mother of Dominic A. Felder, 27.

"The family is still devastated," said James Behrenbrinker, one of two attorneys who represented the Felder family. "While some might think the award from the jury was liberal, when you put it into perspective of losing a son, a father, and a brother, a mentor, somebody that people looked up to, I don't know if it's so liberal."

City Attorney Susan Segal said her office recommended that Minneapolis pay the judgment rather than face the possibility of paying even more attorneys' fees should the city lose an appeal at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

A jury awarded the Felder family $1.81 million in compensatory and punitive damages last October after a one-week trial in U.S. District Court. The city had proposed an award of $105,300 based in part on the amount of child support that Felder would have paid for one of his two daughters. Though the jury never publicly explained its reasoning for the amount it awarded, city attorneys speculated that it was based on calculations of what Felder would have earned making $10 an hour for the next 50 years.

A city motion asking for a new trial or, alternatively, a reduction in the award, was denied by U.S. District Court Judge David Doty last month. Doty added about $380,000 to the jury's award to pay for the Felders' legal fees, bringing the total to $2.19 million.

Felder was shot by Minneapolis police officers Jason King and Lawrence Loonsfoot near his house in the 3900 block of Bloomington Avenue S. A grand jury cleared the officers of criminal wrongdoing.

During the civil trial, the city argued that police accounts of the night show that Felder resisted arrest and then grabbed King's gun after the officers responded to a 911 call about a domestic incident at Felder's house. Officer King testified during the trial that he suspected Felder was carrying a gun based on the way Felder was behaving, including reaching for his waistband while refusing officer's orders.

Felder's family, meanwhile, argued in their 2007 lawsuit that the officers approached Felder with their weapons drawn, that he was compliant, and that a witness told the officers that Felder was unarmed and having mental problems.

No one from the Felder family could be reached for comment Friday evening.

The only larger city payout in a police conduct case was a $4.5 million settlement in 2007 over the shooting of police officer Duy Ngo, who was seriously wounded when he was mistakenly shot six times while working undercover. Ngo, who suffered from depression after the shooting, took his own life last year.

The city faces another police conduct case from 2004 in which former officer Scott Mars shot and killed Courtney Williams, 15. Mars said he saw Williams raising a gun. Williams' family said the teen was moving his arms up in surrender. That lawsuit was filed last October, four days before the jury in the Felder case reached its decision.

The City Council on Friday also approved a $90,000 settlement for employment-related claims filed administratively and in state court on behalf of Ronald G. Brandon, who formerly worked as an administrator for the city's Department of Civil Rights. Neither Brandon nor his attorney could be reached for comment.

Matt McKinney • 612-217-1747