A DuSable High School graduate was fatally shot by Chicago police early Wednesday after aiming a handgun at two officers in the stairwell of a South Side Chicago Housing Authority high-rise, police say.

Brandon Polk, 18, of the 4700 block of South Wabash Avenue, was shot in the right shoulder and lower abdomen at about 12:30 a.m.

Advertisement

Polk, who graduated in June and hoped to join the Navy, was pronounced dead about an hour after being shot inside the Robert Taylor Homes building at 4525 S. Federal St., where the entrance is marked "Freedom Town."

Police spokesman Pat Camden said the shooting appeared legal but remained under investigation.

Advertisement

Some residents and family members doubted Polk was armed or dealing drugs, as police said, and they questioned police claims that the shooting was warranted.

"Police came from upstairs and downstairs, and caught them in the middle and started shooting--that's what I was told," said Polk's mother, Sharon Bunch.

Polk, whose father was fatally shot by a security guard in 1990, had been considering a career in law enforcement, his mother said.

Police said plainclothes officers were doing surveillance in the building just after midnight when a marked police car pulled up.

A group, including Polk, had been dealing drugs but scattered after spotting the car, Camden said.

Polk and another man ran into a stairwell, both carrying 40-caliber handguns, Camden said. He said the two ignored orders to drop the weapons, and Polk ran down a hallway and up some stairs, where he was confronted by more officers.

Polk then aimed the gun at the officers, one of whom, a 10-year veteran, fired, he said.

Police arrested three men, including Polk's half-brother, on weapons and drug charges and said they recovered narcotics and three guns.

Advertisement

Residents said there has been violent turf war between gangs battling for control of the Taylor Homes.

But they also complained that officers often are heavy-handed with the residents and too quick to shoot.

Wednesday's shooting happened down the hall from where another man was fatally shot by police last month after police say he disarmed an officer.

Camden said there have been 33 police shootings this year, eight of them fatal.