ROOKIE COP Danielle Baymack wept uncontrollably yesterday after she faced charges of killing a fellow officer in a drunken-driving crash - as hundreds mourned the slain NYPD officer at an emotional wake. Tears rolled down Baymack's cheeks when she walked down the steps of Nassau County Courthouse in Mineola, where she appeared during a brief hearing on charges of driving while intoxicated and vehicular manslaughter. "Her family is very devastated by what's happened the last few days," Baymack's lawyer Dennis Lemke said. Later in the day, Officer Marlene Rivera's father, Jose, sat frozen with grief as Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly joined hundreds of mourners at a funeral home in Ridgewood, Queens. Kelly knelt next to the heartbroken parents of the 24-year-old Queens cop, who lay in an open coffin framed by photos of her graduation from the Police Academy in July. The outpouring of love and remorse overwhelmed Rivera's sisters, who both fainted during the wake. Baymack, 22, and Rivera, who met at the academy and worked out of the 103rd Precinct in Jamaica, Queens, had gone to a nightclub in the borough with another cop late Thursday. They then drove the other cop to her Long Island home early Friday before heading back to the city. Baymack lost control of her car on Sunrise Highway in Wantagh, L.

I., and hit a signpost, killing Rivera. Baymack had a blood-alcohol level of 0.

Advertisement

11, above the legal limit of 0.

08, police said. "You subconsciously think one day, in the line of duty, something might happen," said Rivera's friend Diane Lemela, 39, of Ridgewood. "But something as senseless as this - it's tragic.

Advertisement

" Sobbing friends and grim-faced cops mostly wore white - rather than black - in deference to a request from Rivera's family. Many also donned purple ribbons. Rivera was dressed in her NYPD uniform and surrounded by a sea of flowers. "She's a good daughter," her mother, Ana Fernandez, said outside the Seneca funeral chapel. "She's a good girl.

" nbode@nydailynews.

com