A Chicago police officer was driving the wrong way down a one-way street--without flashing lights or siren--when his car struck and killed a West Side man last month, the man's family alleges in a lawsuit.

The family of Eric Cage, 32, contends an unmarked police car struck Cage when he was riding his motor scooter on Sept. 27 at Iowa Street and Lamon Avenue on the West Side.

Advertisement

Police have so far declined to identify the officer or turn over accident reports, said the family's attorney, Matthew Friedman of Chicago.

"It's very unusual that we're not able to get the report," Friedman said Friday. "I'm willing to be patient and let the police do their investigation. ... [But] at some point, the judge is going to order them to produce everything."

Advertisement

Cage's sister, Sherlie Butler of Chicago, filed the lawsuit Wednesday on behalf of her brother's estate in Cook County Circuit Court. The city is the only defendant.

Circuit Judge Kathy Flanagan issued an order Thursday--agreed to by both sides--that requires police to preserve the motor scooter, 911 tapes and other evidence in the case.

Police spokeswoman Monique Bond confirmed Friday that a police officer was involved in the accident. But Bond said she would not identify the officer or comment further because the case is under investigation.

City Law Department spokeswoman Jennifer Hoyle said city attorneys had appeared in court on the matter but would not comment further.

Cage had three children and worked as a maintenance or parking supervisor at a condominium building.

Friedman said Cage, who lived about a half-block from the site of the accident, had been driving to a store for cigars. Friedman said he has spoken to two people who saw the accident and were willing to testify.

Cage stopped at a stop sign and "didn't see any traffic coming from the right, so I believe he just headed through the intersection," Friedman said. "The vehicle hit him ... and flipped him in the air."

----------

Advertisement

mjhiggins@tribune.com