A SUICIDAL PSYCHO held a woman at knifepoint and threatened to kill her yesterday on Brooklyn's trendy restaurant row before a sharpshooter cop felled him with a single bullet. "I thought I'm probably going to die," Phyllis Fine told the Daily News after being held hostage during the harrowing 10-minute standoff on Smith St. in Cobble Hill. "I was thinking about how it was going to happen. I wondered, would it hurt a lot?

" Fine was within inches of her attacker, Joseph Bernazard, when a sure-shot cop - an Iraq war veteran - pulled the trigger and killed the 26-year-old man on the upscale block. Fine said the madman, who moments earlier had sliced another women's neck, never spoke to her as he held her by the hair at 9 a.

Advertisement

m. He instead yelled over and over, "Kill me now! I want to die!

" Unable to see her attacker's serrated knife, Fine, 54, said she was more frightened by the police guns pointing at her as Bernazard used her as a human shield. "My focus was the guns," she said. "I was moving around a little bit, struggling in his grasp. When I did, he'd pull my hair hard. That's when I could really feel the knife.

Advertisement

" After the bullet exploded into Bernazard, Fine said she thought: "Am I dead?

" "Then I said, 'No, it's not me.

' " When Fine felt Bernazard drop, she stepped away and fell into the arms of a female cop who told her: "It's okay. It's over. You're okay.

" Police officials later marveled at the marksmanship of the heroic cop, Officer Louis Gubitosi, 25, a former Marine who has less than three years on the job. "It was a million-dollar shot," a police source said. "He was holding the woman close, right next to him, the knife right up against her throat, and the cop fires cleanly.

" The saga began when, hallucinating and hearing voices in his head, Bernazard was taken to Long Island College Hospital late Friday. But he tore out his IV and walked out of the hospital against doctors' wishes. He was still wearing his medical bracelet when he was killed. About 8:50 a.

m. yesterday, Bernazard grabbed Julie Jacobowitz, 32, a social worker talking on a cell phone with a friend as she walked home from the gym. "If they kill me, I won't have to hurt you," the Red Hook man told Jacobowitz, police sources said. But as he spoke, he was already slicing into her neck, causing her to scream in agony near Baltic St. "He has a knife to my head!

" she cried out, said witness Rocky Rukan, 47. "I pulled out my cell phone and called 911.

" A group of construction workers then confronted Bernazard, who told them, "The cops are going to have to kill me.

Advertisement

" When police raced up seconds later, Bernazard pushed the bleeding 32-year-old woman away and ran about 2 blocks to the Met Food Market, where he grabbed Fine by the hair. "He started yelling, 'I'm going to kill her!

' " Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said. Cops surrounded Bernazard outside the store, not far from where Heath Ledger, the Australian actor and "Brokeback Mountain" star, and his fiancée, actress Michelle Williams, bought a multimillion-dollar home. For 10 long minutes, the cops tried to reason with Bernazard, telling him to drop the knife. But he refused and crouched down behind Fine. Steps away, Gubitosi told his superior he had a clear shot. The lieutenant responded, "Take it" - and the cop fired the round into Bernazard's neck, police sources said. Kelly praised the cop last night, saying Gubitosi "demonstrated the utmost professionalism under extraordinary circumstances, and in doing so, saved a woman's life.

" Gubitosi is nicknamed "Rocky," said his grandmother Mary Gubitosi of Sunset Park, Brooklyn. "I'm proud of him," she said. "I'm glad that woman's okay. It's a shame it had to happen this way, though.

" After the shooting, an ambulance took Bernazard back to the same hospital he had walked out of hours before. He was declared dead on arrival. His victims were not seriously hurt. Bernazard's family said he had a history of mental illness and had taken a turn for the worse recently. "They're after me," he told his sister Yolanda on Friday night. "I think he genuinely wanted to die," Fine said. "I don't feel angry, and I'm surprised at that. . . . This guy needed help.

" Violent crime is rare in Cobble Hill. No one has been murdered in the 76th Precinct this year; four people were killed there in 2005. After hospital checkups, Jacobowitz and Fine were released. But before heading home, Fine met her hero. Hugging and kissing Gubitosi, she said: "Thank you so much. You saved my life. I'm here because of you.

" agendar@nydailynews.

Advertisement

com