A motorist speeding off from an insurance checkpoint in Louisiana after struggling with a state trooper there was killed in a car crash, authorities said.

The driver, Wilson Jackson III, 24, of New Orleans, died about 11 a.m. Oct. 6 after running off U.S. 190 between Hammond and Covington, State Police Troop L reported.

The chase began when the driver could not provide insurance papers and tried to drive away, according to a Troop L news release. Trooper Steven Linn reached through an open window for the ignition switch to stop the driver, the release said.

Jackson wrestled with Linn, then managed to restart the vehicle and speed away, causing the trooper to fall out of the car and hit the ground, Troop L reported. Linn suffered minor injuries.

Jackson lost control of the car and struck a concrete culvert, Troop L reported. The vehicle caught fire but was immediately extinguished by troopers who had been pursuing it. Two guns were thrown from the vehicle during the chase, Troop L reported.

Jackson was pronounced dead at the scene by Tangipahoa Parish Coroner Dr. Rick Foster, due to injuries sustained in the crash. Alcohol or drug involvement is unknown in the crash, blood results are pending.

It was later found that Jackson had an outstanding warrant for probation and parole violation through the Orleans Parish Sheriff’s Office.

The passenger, Ricky D. Hardiman Jr., 24, of New Orleans, was transported to St. Tammany Hospital where he was treated for severe injuries. He was later transported to Our Lady of the Lake Hospital where he was in critical condition on Saturday. It was later discovered that Hardiman has two outstanding warrants through the Orleans Parish Sheriff’s Office. Charges are pending on Hardiman. He will be booked when released from the hospital.

The driver died at the scene of the crash, while a passenger in the car was taken to St. Tammany Parish Hospital with severe injuries, Troop L reported.

Information from: The Advocate, www.theadvocate.com

Copyright 2023 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Topics Auto Louisiana