The parents of a suspected home invader who was shot and killed by a Pima County sheriff's deputy in October 2006 have filed a wrongful-death lawsuit against Sheriff Clarence Dupnik, the county Board of Supervisors and the deputy.

The lawsuit filed in Pima County Superior Court says Deputy Lorence Jove acted unreasonably when he shot an unarmed and fleeing Manuel Angel Diaz twice in the back on Oct. 14, 2006.

"Defendant Jove was consciously aware of the harmfulness of his conduct and continued his actions in deliberate contravention to the rights of Manuel Diaz," the lawsuit states. "By shooting and killing an unarmed man, defendant Jove extinguished a human life in an aggravated and outrageous manner."

George and Cecilia Diaz are seeking unspecified damages.

The county has a policy of not commenting on pending litigation, said Deputy Pima County Attorney Tom Dugal.

At the time of the incident, Pima County Sheriff's Department officials said that Diaz, 19, was one of three masked men who forced their way into a home in Corona de Tucson and held a woman and her 3-year-old child at gunpoint.

The suspects left the residence before deputies arrived but they crossed paths with Jove. The deputy tried to pull the suspects' vehicle over when he realized it matched the description of the one used in the home invasion and a chase ensued.

After deputies spiked the vehicle's tires, the men got out and ran. Jove ran after Diaz, who repeatedly ignored commands to stop and show his hands.

Jove chased Diaz and fired when Diaz stopped, crouched and wheeled around, authorities said. Diaz got up and continued to run from Jove before going through the same crouching motion.

Jove fired on Diaz that time as well. Diaz ran from Jove and repeated the movement one last time when Jove shot him and Diaz fell to the ground.

Jove's attorney, Mike Storie, said the deputy thought Diaz was armed, but it turned out that he was only holding a bundled shirt.

However, Storie said deputies found three guns strewn along the path of the chase that had been thrown out of the SUV. There was another gun inside the vehicle, along with three bulletproof vests.

An autopsy revealed Diaz had cocaine and alcohol in his system. It also said Diaz was struck by bullets twice — in the back and in the abdomen.

Diaz's alleged accomplices, Brandon I. Felix, Jesse H. Granillo and Joseph A. Ochoa, are scheduled to go to trial Dec. 11 on multiple charges in connection with the incident, including first-degree murder.