James Lunsford (25) wounded two police officers before shooting himself in the head multiple times



James Lunsford (25) Date: Oct 19, 2006

Suicide by: Multiple Gunshots

Location: Fresno, CA

URL: view their profile Oct 19, 2006Multiple GunshotsFresno, CA

A pre-dawn ambush by a 25-year-old man who wounded two police officers ended seven hours later Thursday after the gunman killed himself in the bathroom of his town house, authorities said.



James George Lunsford called 911 at 3:28 a.m. Thursday and asked officers to come over to help his friend, whom he claimed was suicidal, said Fresno Police Chief Jerry Dyer.



When officers arrived at the San Jose Villa complex, Lunsford was standing on his balcony alone and told the two responding officers that he and his friend were unarmed. He threw the keys to officers Trevor Shipman, 22, and Daniel Messick, 27, who went around to the front door, Dyer said.



When the officers opened the door, a spray of bullets met them. Messick was struck once in the calf, and Shipman, who was wearing a ballistic vest, received at least four shots in the back, one in his forearm and two in his upper thigh.



“This was an absolute ambush – we have absolutely no doubt, and that's what this investigation has proven,” Dyer said. “If not for God's grace and protective hand upon these officers, they would not be with us today.”



After they were shot, both officers fled the town house and were treated at the University Medical Center, where Shipman remained in stable condition following surgery. Messick was treated and released.



Neither officer shot at Lunsford, who was on probation for 2005 drunk driving arrest, during the confrontation, Dyer said.



Shortly before 4 a.m., Lunsford called 911 again and told dispatchers he had hurt a police officer. He then fired more than 20 rounds of bullets from inside his house, according to witnesses.



At least three neighbors also called police, saying they were trapped in their homes and feared leaving. A SWAT team arrived and transported the three, none of whom was injured.



Crisis negotiators tried to reach Lunsford by cell phone or public address system, but he did not respond, Dyer said.



Later in the morning, SWAT officers shot tear gas into the house, also to no response, the chief said. They found Lunsford in the upstairs bathroom closet, dead from numerous self-inflicted gunshot wounds to the head.

« go back to article archive list