About a dozen people protested Wednesday morning outside Montgomery Police headquarters - saying police were covering up information and details on the deaths of four men in police custody.

They carried signs, sang and prayed, and then called for more investigation on the deaths last September and October.

The protestors say police are covering up facts, and in one case, understating just how much physical force they used when they arrested the late Perry Simmons.

But there are some big holes in the the version Simmons' widow presents - including some scientific evidence that seems to show Simmons himself is responsible for his own death.

It wasn't a big group - but they were vocal.

They carried signs and photos of their loved ones, sang, prayed and then launched into accusations over how three men died in the last three months.

Katrina Simmons was among the most adamant of the protestors.

"My husband was killed by the Montgomery policemen," she said.

The facts in Perry Simmons' case seem cut and dried. Police arrested Simmons after a neighborhood fight that left furniture shattered outside his door.

"He was tasered five times, that's what they're not saying. He was also maced, his eye was beaten out and he was dragged on his face," his widow said.

What happened after that is in dispute.

Police say Simmons had problems breathing in the patrol car, so they had medics meet them at headquarters. Then, they took him to Jackson Hospital where he died. His widow says that isn't quite accurate. She says police overreacted when they took Simmons into custody.

"He had no knife, no gun. There was six officers but there was nine carloads of polices," (sic) she said.

Mrs. Simmons says that level of force plus the taser and mace is what caused Simmons' death. But police had an autopsy done on his body, and the results seem to show Simmons at the very least, shared responsibility.

"It was shown, in what the doctor released from Forensic Sciences, that he died from excited delerium, cocaine induced," said Montgomery Police Chief Art Baylor. "That's what the doctor said, not the police department."

Katrina Simmons says she doesn't trust the state pathologists report - and she believes police are covering up for each other.

But she did not have another autopsy done on her husband's body before his burial.

When WSFA asked her to identify the sources who claimed they saw police brutalize her husband she would not. When we asked if she was considering a lawsuit against MPD, she also declined to answer that.

Another case protestors highlighted has some strong contrasts to the Simmons incident. Police have yet to clear a shooting at a local food company warehouse where one man took four police officer bullets.

"I had heard he had an argument with another guy...."

That's how Annie Jemison began her story with us. Her grief and anger started in October. That's when police officers shot and killed her 25 year old son, Cedrick Brown.

"They didn't accuse him of doing anything. They don't have records of him doing nothing. Not one thing," she said of Brown.

Like other protestors, Jemison says police drastically overreacted when they went to the Winn-Dixie warehouse to answer a disturbance call. Brown, she says, was not an overpowering man.

"My son was five feet one inch tall, he weighed 110 pounds and he was handicapped. He had a pin - he had surgery on his leg and he had a pin in his leg," she said.

Yet, she says officers went well beyond reasonable use of any force when they fired four bullets into his body.

"He had the body of a child," Jemison remarked.

Jemison's protest is in stark contrast to the others, where officers used mace and tazers to subdue suspects. She says officers never should have fired their weapons.

"This, I know in my heart. It wouldn't take four bullets to stop my son," Jemison said.

Montgomery Police chief Art Baylor says the ABI investigation into the Brown shooting is not yet complete. But, he says the basic facts support the action his officers took against Brown.

"When we were called, we were told a subject may have or did have a gun," Baylor said. "And, when officers arrived, we did find a man with a weapon."

Chief Baylor declined to identify the officers involved in Brown's shooting and he says he does not know when the ABI will complete its work. When agents do finish their investigation, it will go to the Montgomery County District Attorney's office and then the grand jury.

As for Mrs. Jemison, she says none of that really matters because she thinks officers will cover up for each other if they can.

And, as she asserted, we checked state court and arrest records to see if Cedrick Brown was ever in trouble with police. He had no listing in those records.