on •

Things can get pretty messy.

Lots of cop action in Silt the past couple days. A State Trooper airplane, National Guard helicopter, SWAT teams, tracking dogs, roadblocks, and every cop in the state, including FBI agents swarmed on Silt. It has taken a few days to sort out everything.

Late Tuesday night (10/24), Colorado State Trooper Brian Koch was shot three times during a routine traffic stop on County Rd 346 in Silt. The shooter escaped. Trooper Koch’s bulletproof vest saved his life, but his left arm was shattered.

Two local residents happened upon the scene and stopped to help.

Rescuers ignored fear, helped trooper

By Dennis Webb For Armando Bencomo and Cruz Figueroa Alvarez, stopping to aid a wounded Colorado State Patrol trooper Tuesday night was the right thing to do. It also was the frightening thing to do. When the two happened by the scene on the Rifle-Silt Road where trooper Brian Koch had been wounded by a bullet, they realized the shooter still might be nearby. “When he said ‘I’ve been shot,’ the first thing we did is look around and look for somebody,” Bencomo said. “But it was completely dark, there was no way we could see somebody. “We thought for a few seconds what we should do. We thought we can help, maybe we can help, but it was risky.” “I think we were lucky to be there at the right moment to help a little,” Bencomo said. Koch was lucky, too. Bencomo said he and Figueroa Alvarez applied a tourniquet to Koch’s wounded left arm, first using Figueroa Alvarez’s shoelace, and then Bencomo’s belt. Koch had been bleeding heavily when they arrived, but the tourniquet soon stanched the flow, Bencomo said. “I can’t say we saved his life but we tried to do the right thing,” he said. Capt. Rich Duran of the CSP’s Glenwood post, where Koch works, applauds what the two men did in coming to his fallen officer’s aid, considering the potential danger to them. “I think it’s a very heroic action,” he said.

During the night law enforcement descended on Silt. They established road blocks and conducted a reverse 911 call to rural residents south of town to alert them to the manhunt. Wednesday morning schools from New Castle to Parachute were placed on non-emergency lockdown. On Wednesday evening the suspect shot himself at the roadblock in Silt.

Man who shot trooper takes own life at roadblock

By Mike McKibbin SILT — A man authorities suspected in the gunshot wounding of a Colorado State Patrol trooper Tuesday night took his own life Wednesday night, District Attorney Martin Beeson said. Steven Joseph Appl, 33, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound at a roadblock at Garfield County Roads 346 and 341, Beeson said. “While we don’t have official confirmation from the coroner yet, we took the photo of the suspect we distributed and matched it to the deceased,” he said. “We’re confident that’s who it was.” Appl was suspected of shooting State Patrol Trooper Bruce Koch during an altercation at a traffic stop on County Road 346 Tuesday at approximately 11:20 p.m. Beeson said Appl was in a vehicle driven by a female as it approached the roadblock “under the cover of darkness.” “The officers at the roadblock heard a single shot and detained the female driver,” he said. “We’re sure the suspect is now deceased.” Beeson said investigations are ongoing into Koch’s shooting, Appl’s death and the female driver’s role in his death. He would not identify the driver because of those investigations, he said.

So who was this guy? That’s what everybody wanted to know. The DA’s office and law enforcement offered up little in the way of information. So a local reporter did some digging on his own.

Meth use likely led to suspect’s actions in shooting of trooper

By Mike McKibbin PARACHUTE — The man suspected of wounding a Colorado State Patrol trooper during an altercation Tuesday night in Garfield County and then taking his own life nearly 24 hours later was described by a former employer as “one of the best workers I’ve had, without a doubt,” until he got involved in methamphetamine. Steven Joseph Appl, a 33-year-old Parachute-area resident, eluded an intense manhunt for him Wednesday after Colorado State Patrol Trooper Brian Koch was shot and wounded late Tuesday night in an altercation after a traffic stop on Garfield County Road 346, outside Rifle. Appl allegedly shot himself while in the back seat of a pickup that had been stopped at a checkpoint south of Silt Wednesday night. Joe Feeley owns Fire Trucks Northwest in Parachute, where Appl worked for 10 years. “The last three years of his life wiped out the first 30,” Feeley said. “And it was all because of meth.”

The woman driving the pickup was arrested and talked to reporters after she was released on bail.

Driver charged, says she was ‘freaked out’

By Dennis Webb A DeBeque woman who said she “freaked out” after discovering a suspected cop shooter hiding out in a Silt-area bedroom has been arrested after allegedly trying to aid in his escape. Cori Elizabeth Graham, 27, was arrested shortly after 8 p.m. Wednesday and was freed from Garfield County Jail Thursday after posting bonds totaling $8,250. She is charged with felony counts of being an accessory to a crime and tampering with evidence, and a misdemeanor count of obstructing a peace officer. Police say Graham had been driving a red pickup truck in which Steven Appl shot himself after it was stopped at a checkpoint Wednesday night. Appl had been the subject of a manhunt after being named as the suspect in the shooting Tuesday night of Colorado State Patrol trooper Brian Koch. Graham voluntarily spoke of her role in the incident at the Garfield County Sheriff’s Office after being arrested Wednesday night, according to an arrest affidavit by sheriff’s deputy Robert Glassmire. She said she had been contacted by investigation task force members about 3 p.m. Wednesday and asked about Appl’s whereabouts. She said she knew Appl was in trouble for allegedly shooting an officer, but didn’t know where he was. Graham said she then contacted a longtime friend, identified in the affidavit as Nikki Brownel, at a DeBeque-area bar. Graham told Glassmire that Brownel asked for a ride home, and the two arrived at a residence on County Road 331 in the Silt area. The road also is known as Dry Hollow Road. Police say Appl had abandoned a vehicle with Arizona license plates about three miles up the road after his encounter with Koch. Graham said Brownel led her to a bedroom, where Appl was sitting on a bed. “Cori advised that she started to ‘freak out.’ Cori then told me that Nikki told her that the cops would be coming any minute wanting to search the house,” Glassmire wrote.

When stuff like this happens it sets everyone on edge, especially law enforcement. To me it says that while the President and his cronies blather on about Islamo-fascists and terrorism, those of us on the ground in the reality-based community deal with the real dangers to society – nut cases who snap.

Like Dwayne Morrison who held 6 teen girls hostage at Platte Canyon High School (Bailey, CO) in September, before killing one of the girls and dying in a shootout with police.

Or Charles Carl Roberts IV who took over an Amish schoolhouse in Quarryvilled, PA, and murdered 5 little girls.

And for us this week, it’s Steven Appl.

Click here to add From the Styx to your RSS reader.

Share this: Share

Email

Print

Facebook

Reddit

Twitter

Like this: Like Loading...

Categories: Colorado, meth, Silt, state trooper