Police shot three men, killing two of them in a shootout on a residential street in the Humboldt Park neighborhood Monday afternoon.

Members of the Chicago police gang intelligence unit were tailing three suspected members of of the New Breed street gang who they believed were on their way to kill a rival gang member, said Police Supt. Philip Cline.

Advertisement

The men were in a vehicle traveling on Augusta Boulevard near Kedzie Avenue at about 3:45 p.m., Cline said. The superintendent said the gang unit had been involved in a weekslong investigation into shootings in the area. Through electronic surveillance, they learned of a planned drive-by shooting, he said.

"These offenders were part of a street crew who we believe [was] responsible for a number of homicides in the 10th and 11th Districts," Cline said.

Advertisement

As the suspects' eastbound car approached the intersection with Kedzie--across from Humboldt Park--the officers pulled it over, police said. As they approached, Cline said, the officers saw a man riding in the back seat raisean AK-47 assault rifle toward them. The officers opened fire, killing the man with the rifle and the front-seat passenger, he said.

A source familiar with the investigation said the officers had expected the suspects to be heavily armed. An AK-47 and a handgun were recovered at the scene, according to police.

One police officer was shot in the hand by one of the suspects, said police spokeswoman Monique Bond. The officer, a 14-year veteran, lost his finger in the attack and is being treated in Mt. Sinai Hospital. The car's driver was in critical condition in Mt. Sinai, police said.

Margarita Del Valle, 51, said she was in her kitchen taking care of her three day-care charges when she heard a loud voice outside say "Drop it, drop it."

Del Valle looked out the window and said she saw about eight police officers and three patrol cars cornering three young men in a black car.

Gunfire erupted, and the police continued to yell "drop it," Del Valle said.

Del Valle said she could not see if the men, who looked like they were in their 20s, were shooting because a tree was blocking her view. She ran to take care of the children and looked outside when the ambulance arrived, she said.

"They left the car's windows completely smashed with bullet holes," Del Valle said.

Advertisement

Del Valle's husband, Jose Diaz, 54, said the street had been mostly deserted when he arrived home minutes before the shooting.

He estimated he heard as many as 70 shots. When he looked out the window, he saw officers go over to the car and open the driver's-side door, throwing the driver of the car to the ground. Diaz said the driver, splashed with blood, looked like he was wearing red plastic gloves.

"He was barely responding," Diaz said in Spanish.

Police then opened the passenger and back doors and the two other passengers fellout. Ambulances came soon after, Diaz said, and the three men were taken away.

David Ortiz, 23, who lives in the 3200 block of West Cortez Street, said he heard gunshots that sounded as if they'd been fired from anautomatic weapon.

"I ran out and saw a guy lying by [the car]," Ortiz said. "He was already lying there, dead."

Advertisement

Ortiz estimated that he heard about 50 shots, and that soon afterward a massive police presence converged on the intersection.

----------

tmaxwell@tribune.com

gxdoyle@tribune.com