A patient armed with a pistol died of gunshot wounds Saturday after a 4 1/2-hour standoff with police inside an Aurora hospital, police said.

It was the third time this year that a patient has died after bringing a gun into a Chicago-area hospital.

Advertisement

Police sealed off the fifth floor at Provena Mercy Medical Center, 1325 N. Highland Ave., around 8:30 a.m., after the 58-year-old patient, identified as Johnnie Russell, pointed a gun at an officer, said Aurora police spokesman Dan Ferrelli.

The officer, along with a supervisor, persuaded Russell to release a 71-year-old patient who had been in the room with him, Ferrelli said. The standoff ended around 1 p.m., when Russell opened the door to the room and raised the gun, prompting an officer in the hallway to open fire, police said.

Advertisement

It was not clear late Saturday how Russell died, though apparently he was struck by shots fired by an officer, Ferrelli said in a release late Saturday. Police initially had thought that Russell died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound and that he had fired one shot at the officers.

All patients on their way to Mercy for emergency care were redirected to other hospitals, said Bill Brown, Mercy's president and chief executive officer.

Russell, of the 1500 block of Burton Court, Aurora, had told the first officer at the scene and later hostage negotiators he wanted police to shoot him, said Aurora Police Chief William Powell.

After opening fire, police released pepper spray into the room before entering and finding Russell dead on the floor.

"This was strictly for the safety of the police officers," Ferrelli said. "We had to make sure that he did not come up firing when police entered the room."

The standoff began after Mercy security staff notified a police officer at the hospital that a patient was being combative. The officer went to the hospital room, saw that Russell had a weapon, then cleared the hallway of hospital staff and patients, police said.

The officer drew her weapon and peered through the doorway of the hospital room and Russell pointed a handgun at her, threatening to shoot police and himself, Ferrelli said.

"The hospital was locked down so no one was coming in and no one was leaving."

Advertisement

After clearing the fifth floor, police placed 26 patients in other areas of the building, Ferrelli said. Negotiators spoke with Russell through the door of the hospital room and by telephone into the morning, Ferrelli said. Police don't know what sparked the confrontation.

A 70-year-old patient at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago died in June, two days after he shot himself in the head. In July, a 68-year-old patient at Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge shot himself to death in a hospital room, police said.

----------

csheehan@tribune.com