A man trying to disarm a Chicago police officer was shot to death Saturday afternoon during a struggle on the South Side, officials said.

Police got a tip about 4 p.m. that a man wanted in a robbery was in the 700 block of East 63rd Street with two other men, police spokesman Pat Camden said.

Advertisement

Two officers responded and asked the men to remove their hands from their pockets, Camden said.

Two men complied, but the third walked toward the officers.

Advertisement

After ignoring two warnings, the man tried to grab an officer's gun, Camden said.

"The officer was about to lose control of his gun," Camden said. "He fired one shot that struck the man" in the abdomen.

The unidentified man in his early 20s was pronounced dead at the scene.

His companions were being questioned, Camden said.

Early Saturday, a man was killed and a police officer wounded during a shootout in south suburban Robbins.

The Cook County medical examiner's office identified the dead man as Phillip Lloyd, 33.

Officer Aurelius Cole received stitches for a deep graze on the head and was released from a hospital, Robbins Police Chief Johnny Holmes said.

The shooting, which involved multiple shots, occurred about 4 a.m. at a housing complex at West 135th Street and South Claire Boulevard.

Advertisement

It was not clear who shot whom and who fired first, Holmes said. Illinois State Police are investigating.

Also on Saturday, an unidentified Hispanic male was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the West Side.

About 1:30 a.m., a white, mid-1990s Buick sedan with tinted windows hit the man in the 3400 block of West Fullerton Avenue before speeding away, police said. Chicago police said the car may have been damaged on its front left side in the accident.

Also in Chicago, two men robbed an armored truck about 3:15 p.m. Friday in the 3800 block of West Madison Street, police said.

An unspecified amount of money was taken in the heist, during which shots were exchanged with security guards. The robbers fled, but police said one might have been shot.

----------

Advertisement

dwischnowsky@tribune.com

tyang@tribune.com