The 33-year-old man shot and killed by a Robbins police officer early Saturday had been shot by the same officer in an altercation two years ago, and he was awaiting trial on several felony charges related to the incident, according to court records and Robbins Police Chief Johnny Holmes.

The fiance and relatives of Phillip Lloyd on Sunday called his shooting by Officer Aurelius Cole "suspicious" because of the earlier incident. But Holmes said his officer was just responding to disturbances in a public housing complex.

Advertisement

"Yeah, the same officer was there," Holmes said. "But that's not a highly unlikely encounter for a small town and in that area. You encounter the same people every time you go through there. The same thugs. The same gangbangers."

Lloyd's family denied he was a gang member. Cole was cleared of wrongdoing in the first incident, Holmes said.

Advertisement

Saturday's shooting happened about 4 a.m. in the same public housing complex where Cole shot Lloyd before, at the corner of West 135th Street and South Claire Boulevard. Cole was treated early Saturday for a bullet graze in the head, Holmes said.

Family members said Lloyd was shot in the back or side of the head and in the chest. Holmes did not know whether that was accurate and knew no other details of the shooting.

He said Cole had responded to reports of disturbances at the complex earlier that morning, and called for back-up on the last call. Before it arrived, Cole reported shots fired and a man down, Holmes said.

Holmes said sorting out the details would be part of a routine state police investigation that is under way. A state police spokesman declined comment on Sunday. Cole could not be reached for comment.

Holmes, who said he grew up knowing Lloyd's family, also said Phillip Lloyd was involved in illegal activities.

Holmes wouldn't give details, but Cook County Circuit Court records show that Lloyd faced multiple felony charges for the March 4, 2004, run-in with Cole--including armed violence, manufacture/delivery of cocaine, aggravated use of a weapon and drug possession.

"I had no problem with him as an individual," Holmes said. "But what he was involved in stunk up the world."

"Of course they're going to say that," said Lloyd's sister, Shirl Hill, as family members gathered at Lloyd's mother's home to make funeral arrangements.

Advertisement

"His past was his past, but he also had a future," Hill said. "He had turned himself around."

Lloyd spent 3 1/2 years in prison after a conviction at age 17, family members said. But they added that in the last few years he wanted to be an example to his four children, ages 2 to 16.

Now engaged, he was living with fiance Holly Hemingway in neighboring Blue Island.

"He had been in trouble when he was younger, definitely," Hemingway said. "But now he'd tell young kids, `All the choices I've made in my life were not the right ones.' "

Hill and Lloyd's cousin, Tony Washington, described him as a peacemaker.

They said when rivals met on the street, Lloyd often stepped in to defuse the situation. It was an unusual role for the youngest of six siblings.

Advertisement

"His size intimidated a lot of people," Washington said. "He was more of a protector."

"He was always like that," Hill said. "Even though he was the youngest, he wanted to be the boss."

Hill and Washington described the incident two years as a matter of Lloyd being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Lloyd had been getting braids put in his hair at the housing complex when police entered an apartment searching for others who were there.

Holmes said that incident was before he became police chief and he did not know details. But Lloyd's family said there has been bad blood between Cole and Lloyd ever since.

The relatives said Lloyd would have been vindicated at the trial, which had been scheduled for January. He has been free on $16,000 bail posted by Hemingway.

"His bark was bigger than his bite," Hemingway said.

Advertisement

"He was a very loving, generous person."

----------

jjlong@tribune.com