Miami Herald, The (KRT)

via NewsEdge Corporation



Oct. 16--Saying that Miami-Dade officers acted in self-defense, authorities have determined that three fatal, high-profile police shootings were justified, according to newly released reports.

The dead: Randy Baker, 49, a mentally ill former soldier slain in 2004 after beating three police officers; Joseph Terry III, 24, a former soldier shot dead in 2005 as he stabbed a gardener in West Kendall; and Deroy Merritt, 19, a robbery suspect fatally shot last year by an officer who feared that Merritt was armed.

The shootings drew heavy media coverage. The Miami-Dade state attorney's office issued the memos closing each case last month.

The release of the close-out memos comes during jittery days for Miami-Dade police. In September, Officer Jose Somohano was fatally shot and three others wounded in a confrontation with a gunman in Naranja.

"These cases certainly highlight the dangers of the job," Miami-Dade police union President John Rivera said Monday. "Sadly and unfortunately for law enforcement, and for the community, we are entering some extraordinarily violent times."

Baker's death sparked tensions in 2004 between police and residents in West Perrine who said officers had used excessive force to deal with Baker.

Baker was diagnosed with schizophrenia.

On Oct. 24, 2004, officer John Saavedra and a civilian observer pulled up to the intersection of Southwest 176th Street and 104th Avenue at 5 p.m. Baker approached the car "in what appeared to be an agitated state," the close-out memo stated.

Authorities say Baker attacked Saavedra, who struck back with his steel baton. Officers Millie Garcia and Della Oros arrived.

Baker punched Garcia, knocking her out -- she later received seven stitches in the upper chin. Baker picked up Garcia's baton and hit Oros in the head.

Saavedra, 'fearing for officer Oros' life," the memo said, "fired three shots at Baker, striking him three times and killing him."

Some witnesses contended that Saavedra shot him in the back of the head, and while Baker lay on the ground.

According to the memo, witness testimony at the time was conflicting.

According to the autopsy, one bullet passed through Baker's left elbow and another entered above the left eyebrow, lodging in his neck.

One bullet entered the back of his head above the right ear, exiting near the right eye.

"It is consistent with Randy Baker being shot as he moved, charged, stumbled or fell," the memo said. "His head could have been twisting and turning downward as he fell. The shots could have occurred quickly as Baker fell to the ground after the first shot."

Investigators concluded that it was unlikely that Baker was shot as he lay on the ground.

The autopsy also found that Baker was drunk and had traces of cocaine and marijuana in his blood.

Saavedra was later honored as Miami-Dade's Officer of the Year.

Soon after Baker's death, his family filed a federal lawsuit charging that Saavedra and the police department used excessive force and violated civil rights. The county later settled the suit, although terms were not available Monday.



AN EX-SOLDIER

Terry, 24, had been despondent after leaving the Army and quarreling with his live-in girlfriend.

On Nov. 12, 2005, he threatened his family in West Kendall with two kitchen knives.

He walked off through the neighborhood. Officers followed him, using their patrol-car speakers to talk with him and calm him.

'He continued twirling the knives and yelling, 'Just shoot me, just shoot me,' " the close-out memo said.

Finally, Terry dipped into the backyard of a home at 1276 SW 143rd Pl. and grabbed gardener Samuel Quintanilla.

He began "slashing and stabbing" Quintanilla. Officers Alberto Martinez and Thomas Kennedy fired, fatally wounding the ex-soldier.

"But for the actions of Martinez and Kennedy, Mr. Quintanilla would not have survived this ordeal," the memo said.



A FATAL SHOT

Merritt was shot dead by an officer last Nov. 18.

According to the close-out memo, Merritt and Alfred Viel, 20, tried to rob Santos Melendez, 45, and his father, Marcial Melendez, 68, at Northwest 87th Terrace and 32nd Court.

Santos Melendez told detectives that Merritt emerged from the passenger side of a van, pointed a gun at him and snatched a gold chain from his father's neck.

Officer Eureka Gracia pulled up. Santos Melendez motioned to her that they had been robbed with a gun.

Gracia ordered the men out of the van. Viel and Merritt got out and walked toward her.



ONE SHOT FIRED

Investigators say Merritt continued to walk toward Gracia, his hands stuffed into the front pockets of his dark-colored sweatshirt.

"The officer, believing that he was trying to reach for his firearm, fired one shot into the torso of the passenger, Deroy Merritt," the memo said. "It was a fatal shot, as it passed through the aorta, a ventricle of the heart, and a lung."

Assistant State Attorney Abe Laeser wrote in the memo: "Who could blame the officer for believing that the persons who got out of the van and approached her were the ones who had just committed an armed robbery -- and were still armed?"

Viel has been charged with felony murder in Merritt's death because he allegedly committed a robbery that led to a death. He is awaiting trial.



Information From: AP Wire Service