WHITTIER – The California High School community and the Cal High band program were in shock and mourning Monday after a 20-year-old graduate and former band member died Saturday when the car she was driving was hit by a pickup truck being chased by police.

Now, officials at the school, the band program and Hope of Glory Fellowship Church in Whittier, which she occasionally attended, plan to hold a memorial/fundraiser this weekend for Rosanna Garcia of South Whittier and her family.

“She was just an amazing young woman,” said Ray Telles, pastor of Hope of Glory, who met Monday with Cal High school officials and was working with them in organizing the event to raise funds for Garcia’s family.

The young woman had helped support her mother and her sister, who is autistic, Telles said.

“Whenever she could, she would work to make money for her family,” Telles added.

Garcia was fatally injured early Saturday morning when her Honda Accord was struck by a pickup truck at Bloomfield and Florence avenues in unincorporated Whittier.

Whittier police had been chasing the pickup from the scene of a shooting in the parking lot of Se or Charlie’s Sports Bar, according to a police report. The truck drove south on Santa Fe Springs Road, which turns into Bloomfield. As the vehicle entered the intersection at Florence – going 90 mph, police said – Garcia’s Honda had just driven into the intersection.

The front of the pickup hit the driver’s side of the Honda. Garcia suffered major injuries and was transported to St. Francis Medical Center, where she was pronounced dead at 6 a.m. Saturday.

The pickup driver ran from the crash scene but was later arrested by Whittier police. William Brooker, 27, of El Monte has been booked on suspicion of murder, California Highway Patrol Officer Raquel Stage said.

The memorial event and dinner fundraiser will be held from 5 to 8 p.m. Friday at California High School, 9800 S. Mills Ave., Whittier. For more information, call Hope of Glory Fellowship, (562) 903 7355.

Funeral plans for Garcia were pending Monday.