The December death of a 41-year-old mother of eight in Dixmoor police custody was the result of an accidental drug overdose, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office said.

An autopsy showed that Felicia Turner of the 15300 block of South Hoyne Street, Harvey, was intoxicated with cocaine-fetanyl when she was arrested by Dixmoor police on Dec. 1 and accused of shoplifting during her monthly grocery store trip, authorities said.

Advertisement

Turner was taken to the small Dixmoor police station, handcuffed to a bench and left there by an officer who went to photocopy evidence. When he returned a short time later, he found her unresponsive. She was taken to Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey where she died about an hour after her arrest.

Dixmoor officials did not return calls seeking comment on Tuesday.

Advertisement

Turner's death outraged her children, who said she left their home to go grocery shopping and never returned. The children, who said they were not told of their mother's arrest, hospitalization or death, spent two days calling hospitals and police departments in search of her. Eventually, they learned that the body of a woman matching their mother's description was at the medical examiner's office and they identified her.

On Tuesday, Turner's cousin, James Mosley, said he was disappointed in what the autopsy revealed. "We knew of Felicia's past demons and thought she had gotten herself rehabilitated," he said.

Turner was raising six children in a two-bedroom apartment on Hoyne Street. The family was making do with little furniture and Turner was supporting them with monthly public assistance.

Turner's two oldest children, 23 and 18, have said they would raise their siblings who range in age from 6 to 15. They are trying to get job training and find employment, Mosley said.

At Christmas, a local church adopted the family and officials from Dixmoor and Harvey have pledged to help them.

The family still is living in the small apartment but is working to improve their situation, Mosley said. "It's still a struggle to get them to a stabilized place," he said. "The situation remains that they are in need, but we are thankful for everyone who sent money, food, clothing and toys."

----------

lbowean@tribune.com