A letter found in a Louisiana man's truck after he was killed this month in a shootout with New Lenox police shows he was depressed and did not believe he would live much longer.

The handwritten note--about a half-page long on a sheet of notebook paper--was found tucked behind the sun visor in Dale John Rodeghero's 2003 Dodge pickup, said New Lenox Police Chief Daniel Martin.

Advertisement

Rodeghero "didn't give any information about the how or where of his death--nothing specific like that," Martin said Thursday. "It just talked about him being depressed and that he couldn't live much longer."

About 8:30 p.m. Dec. 8, a New Lenox police officer pulled over Rodeghero, 58, of Metairie, La., for a traffic violation near Lincoln-Way Central High School.

Advertisement

Rodeghero stopped in the school parking lot and shot the officer with a 9 mm handgun as he approached the truck.

The officer radioed for help, and when a second officer arrived, he too was shot by Rodeghero.

More officers arrived, but Rodeghero barricaded himself inside his truck and traded gunfire with police for about six minutes before he was apprehended.

He was taken to Silver Cross Hospital in Joliet, where he died. The injured officers also were hospitalized but have been discharged.

Rodeghero's letter did not say what caused his depression, and the motive for the shooting was not clear.

But investigators said they believe it may have been a "suicide by cop," in which a person shoots at police knowing that police will return fire.

"One can only speculate as to why he [fired at police officers], but that's an inference that a reasonable person would make," Martin said.

Rodeghero's letter, addressed to a relative in the area, also mentioned he had come to the area to see about being buried in the same local cemetery as his mother and brother, Martin said. Cash also was recovered from the truck, and the note stipulated the funds be used to help cover funeral and burial costs, he said.

Advertisement

Illinois State Police are investigating the shooting, but their report has not been turned over to Will County State's Atty. James Glasgow.

Glasgow, who viewed video of the shooting from the first officer's squad car camera, said at the time of the shooting that the officers' use of force was justified.

----------

mwalberg@tribune.com