The City of Chicago has tentatively agreed to pay $1.8 million to settle a federal lawsuit that alleged a highly intoxicated man suffocated in the back of a police squadrol in November 2000 while two officers ate dinner and took two hours to take him to a hospital.

In announcing the proposed settlement on Monday, lawyers for the estate of Juan Vega said the drive to the hospital should have taken 10 minutes.

Advertisement

The lawsuit alleged the officers breached city policy by bypassing at least five nearby hospitals to take Vega to Cook County Hospital.

Vega, 56, whose blood-alcohol level was 0.24 percent--three times the limit for a drunken driver in Illinois--slipped under a restraint device in the squadrol, fell with his head between the wagon's stairs and door and accidentally asphyxiated himself, said plaintiff attorneys Elliot Richardson and Blake Horwitz.

Advertisement

Although confirming the tentative settlement in the case, a spokeswoman for the city's Law Department emphasized that a written agreement has not been worked out with Vega's family and that the City Council must still give its approval.

The spokeswoman, Jennifer Hoyle, said the two officers had been suspended without pay for 30 days over the incident, but she was unsure if they had served the suspension yet or the matter was on appeal. The officers have denied eating dinner before transporting Vega to the hospital.

According to city policy, intoxicated individuals are supposed to be transported to the closest detoxification facility. But for at least 10 years, police officers have instead taken them to Cook County Hospital rather than the closest approved facilities, according to testimony of certain police officers and Cook County Hospital employees.

Both sides in the case agreed that five or six approved facilities were closer than Cook County Hospital--including St. Elizabeth Hospital, less than two miles away.

Richardson and Horwitz said the tentative $1.8 million settlement would be split among Vega's three sisters and the survivors of a fourth sister. The officers, identified in the lawsuit as Shakespeare District Officers Edward Ranzzoni and David DiSanti, "exhibited blatant disregard for the well-being of Juan Vega," Richardson said.

On Sept. 6, U.S. District Judge Suzanne Conlon threw out certain allegations and dismissed a third officer from the lawsuit, but she ordered that a trial proceed on Oct. 21 on the remaining counts. Settlement negotiations began late last week, the plaintiff lawyers said.

According to Conlon's ruling, on the afternoon of Nov. 3, 2000:

Vega was walking in and out of vehicular traffic in the 3500 block of West Fullerton Avenue when two other police officers responded to a call about the hazard. Vega was reportedly slurring his words and babbling in Spanish.

Advertisement

After learning Vega lived in the vicinity of Palmer Street and Kedzie Avenue with a sister, the officers drove him there. But unable to communicate with Vega because of his intoxicated condition, the officers called for a squadrol to transport him to a detox facility.

The squadrol officers, Ranzzoni and DiSanti, determined Vega posed a danger to himself and placed him in the back with a padded safety bar across his chest.

The officers, whose squadrol was equipped with a computer, are alleged to have sent a "portable data transmission" to their sergeant to confirm dinner plans they had made earlier.

"Nugget at 4:00?" one message to the sergeant asked in a reference--according to attorneys for the Vega family--to a nearby Golden Nugget restaurant.

The officers deny going to dinner and say instead they spent the next 15 to 30 minutes looking for Vega's home. Then, on their way to Cook County Hospital, they made a traffic stop and issued tickets at 5:30 p.m.

The officers arrived at the hospital at about 5:55 p.m., a little more than two hours after they had taken custody of Vega, according to the court records.

Advertisement

A nurse at Cook County Hospital told plaintiff lawyers the officers told her they had placed Vega in the back of the squadrol and gone to dinner, the lawyers said.