According to the Nebraska State Patrol, officers with the Cheyenne County Sheriff's Office attempted a welfare check at the home of 63-year-old Ralph Bond on Tuesday morning.

Cheyenne County Attorney Paul Schaub said Sheriff Darrell Johnson responded to the rural residence to investigate reports that Robin Bond, 24, and developmentally disabled, was in danger and needing assistance.

By MAUNETTE LOEKS

LODGEPOLE - A Lodgepole man died Tuesday night after officers exchanged fire with him following an eight-hour standoff on a farm north of here.

According to the Nebraska State Patrol, officers with the Cheyenne County Sheriff's Office attempted a welfare check at the home of 63-year-old Ralph Bond on Tuesday morning.

Cheyenne County Attorney Paul Schaub said Sheriff Darrell Johnson responded to the rural residence to investigate reports that Robin Bond, 24, and developmentally disabled, was in danger and needing assistance.

While walking around the residence, Johnson encountered Ralph Bond, Robin's father, who allegedly threatened the sheriff and a deputy with a shotgun, Schaub said.

Lodgepole is about 18 miles east of Sidney, and Bond's home is located about four miles north of Lodgepole.

After officers obtained a search warrant and formal charges of making terroristic threats were filed against Ralph Bond, officers made several attempts to get him to leave the residence, Schaub said. Johnson also requested assistance from the Nebraska State Patrol and its SWAT team.

Nebraska State Patrol spokesperson Deb Collins said officers established a perimeter around the residence and made telephone contact with Ralph Bond. Collins said statements by Ralph Bond made officers at the scene believe his daughter was dead, but officers were able to establish that two people were in the home, including Robin Bond.

Officers lost phone contact with Ralph Bond in the early evening, but attempted to re-establish phone contact by placing a "throw phone" in the home, tossing it through a window at the northeast side of the residence. At that time, shots were fired inside the home.

About an hour later, Collins said, Ralph Bond exited the front door of the home armed with two guns and opened fire on officers.

"(Bond) eventually shot out several rounds. Law enforcement returned fire and Mr. Bond was fatally wounded in crossfire," Schaub said.

Robin Bond was in the residence and came out following the crossfire. She was unharmed but was admitted to Memorial Health Center in Sidney for observation, Collins said.

The Nebraska State Patrol was investigating the matter and the Cheyenne County Attorneys office ordered an autopsy. The Cheyenne County Sheriffs Office was to conduct a coroner investigation.

Collins said a special prosecutor will be appointed to investigate the incident and a grand jury will be convened, as required by statute. Nebraska law requires a grand jury be convened anytime a person dies while in police custody or in the process of apprehension.

The incident did occur in the vicinity of a nearby school, Creek Valley Middle School in Lodgepole, but administrators with the school said they were advised it was not necessary to go into lockdown or take other additional security measures.

Roger Holsinger contributed to this report.