A St. Charles man was shot and killed Sunday after police said he pointed a rifle at officers. It's the second time this year St. Charles police have been involved in a fatal shooting.

Gregory John Brodko Jr., 24, of 128 S. Overbrook Drive, was taken to SSM St. Joseph Health Center in St. Charles where he died around 8 p.m. Sunday.

The shooting happened shortly after 3 p.m. Sunday. Pat Juden, Brodko's mother, called 911 after she said her son was acting strangely, saying the police were coming after him.

St. Charles police said the man threatened to kill himself or a police officer and pointed a .22 caliber rifle at an officer when confronted.

A male and female officer went to Juden's residence in the Fox Run Mobile Homes community after receiving the 911 call, police said.

Police Chief Tim Swope said the male officer stood on the front porch of the residence while Brodko stood in the doorway. He said officers asked the man to put the gun down, but he did not comply.

"They ordered him to put down the rifle numerous times," Swope said. "He pointed the gun at the officer and was shot several times until he no longer pointed the weapon. "

Police said Juden was taken next door to her mother's mobile home while police confronted her son.

Neighbor Denise Kerns, who lives next door to Juden and Brodko, said her partner woke her up after he heard pounding on what he thought was his front door. She said it was actually on Juden's front door in the home next to them. Kerns said she saw both officers shoot a gun.

Police said only the male officer fired at Brodko.

"I saw four shots," Kerns said. "I didn't hear any voices. I just saw flashes from the gun."

Other neighbors said they didn't hear the officers talking, just gunfire. They said they normally would hear someone outside talking.

Kerns said she saw two gunshot wounds on Brodko - one in his chest and one in his leg.

"He was carried out on a stretcher, and I saw his hand move" she said.

Police would not comment about where Brodko's wounds were or how many times a gun was fired.

Juden, 54, said she was not allowed to see her son right away because police wouldn't let her go inside the house to get her identification required for a hospital visit. She said she was taken to the St. Charles Police Department, where she was asked to give a statement, along with Kerns.

Juden said she was taken to the hospital about a half an hour after her son died. She said she identified his body and signed a release for an autopsy.

"I was the one who called the cops and said he was armed," she said. "He said he did not want to go back to jail, but he didn't say he was going to kill himself.

"It's my fault. I called them (the police)," she said.

Although there is no evidence that Brodko had a history of mental illness or was taking any medication or drugs, Juden said she was scared.

Brodko usually came and went as he pleased and did not have a job, she said.

"He had a bed frame on the living room floor making something out of it," she said. "He said the TV was talking to him and he kept saying the cops were coming after him."

Swope said Brodko's animosity toward police was the result of a prior DWI conviction. According to criminal records, he served a year in jail for the offense.

"The mother told us in the last month or two she has observed a change in his behavior," he said. "It's a relatively quiet community. It just appears the gentleman had some trouble."

In the spring, police said Brodko resisted arrest for another offense and assaulted an officer and damaged a patrol car.

Swope said it will take three to four days to receive toxicology reports and that an autopsy was scheduled to be completed Monday afternoon.

St. Charles police are following the department's policy of conducting an investigation after any shooting.

Police said the male officer will be on administrative leave during the process but would not release the names of either officer.

In January a detective attempted to arrest a robbery suspect who displayed what police thought was a handgun, but was really a pellet gun. The subject was shot and killed.

At the time police called the incident a case of "suicide by cop."

Juden is seeking donations for funeral expenses because she said she does not have money for a service. Kerns has set up a fund for her neighbor.

Rachel Kaatmann can be contacted at rkaatmann@yourjournal.com