While East Palo Alto residents continue to grieve for a 16-year-old robbery suspect gunned down by authorities last week, the boy’s cousin was set free pending a decision on whether to charge him in the robbery.

Kilipeni Pahulu, 18, was arrested Friday night on suspicion of helping his cousin, 16-year-old Maikeli Iongi, try to steal a car. The driver was shot in the back of the neck during the incident in the 900 block of Newbridge Street.

San Mateo County sheriff’s Capt. Don O’Keefe said the car theft victim, whom they declined to identify late Wednesday because the investigation is ongoing, is recovering at Stanford University Medical Center after surgery. His injuries are not considered life-threatening.

A Menlo Park police officer and a San Mateo County sheriff’s sergeant called to the scene saw two men allegedly fleeing. During a foot chase, witnesses said, they saw one man pull something from his waistband and heard the officers shout, “He has a gun.” The officers shot and killed Iongi near Alberni Street and

Not far from there Wednesday, an enormous memorial – adorned with pictures of Iongi, candles and scribbled notes from mourners saying things like “I miss you” and “I love you” – began to materialize.

Reacting to a community in pain, East Palo Alto police, along with Mayor David Woods, are planning a forum at 5p.m. today at City Hall, 2415 University Ave.

“Although it did not involve an East Palo Alto police officer, it happened in our boundaries, and it’s very tragic,” Woods said. “It’s not a Pacific Islander thing. It’s not a Tongan thing. It’s a community thing.”

Pahulu was arrested on suspicion of robbery and held in lieu of $100,000 bail until Tuesday. But police do not believe he was armed and continue to investigate whether he was involved in the robbery.

Pahulu’s family posted his bail, said Chief Deputy District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe. The family could not be reached to comment, but Pahulu’s mother said earlier she believes her son was not involved in the robbery and had gone outside just moments before the shooting.

Pahulu’s first court appearance is scheduled for Jan. 30. Wagstaffe said prosecutors have until then to decide whether or not to file charges against him.

The San Mateo County District Attorney’s Office, the sheriff’s department and Menlo Park police continued their investigation Wednesday into the police role in Iongi’s death. The officers were placed on paid leave pending the investigation; their names are still being withheld by investigators.

There was no information on which officer fired the fatal shots. A coroner’s report is pending, but preliminary information shows Iongi was shot more than once, Coroner Robert Foucrault said.

While the investigation unfolds, Iongi’s friends and family members have been sharing their grief near the growing shrine.

“He wanted to play football and be a quarterback next year at Carlmont High School,” said Iongi’s cousin Siko Laho, 21, of East Palo Alto. “He went to church at Palo Alto First United Methodist.”

Nam Kale, 18, of East Palo Alto, said Iongi “was funny and always cracked jokes. He was sweet and always showed me respect, saying `Hi’ and giving me a hug.”