LONG BEACH – Authorities today confirmed that a gunman who died in an intense gunbattle with Santa Ana police Wednesday is the same man who ambushed and critically wounded two Long Beach officers during a traffic stop last week.

Oscar Gabriel Gallegos, 33, of Long Beach was shot 15 times by three elite Santa Ana SWAT officers Wednesday outside a strip mall in the 200 block of East Warner Avenue.

The death of Gallegos – the only suspect in the shooting of officers Abe Yap and Roy Wade Jr. – brings an end to a fierce manhunt to find the gunman who shot them as they sat in their patrol car last week. The officers had pulled Gallegos over for running a red light in downtown Long Beach.

The officers remain in critical condition, but Long Beach police Chief Anthony Batts said the men are improving.

Gallegos opened fire on three Santa Ana officers about 5:10 p.m. Wednesday as he and another man walked back from a taco stand, Santa Ana Police Chief Paul Walters said.

Police have questioned and released the second man.

Gallegos, who spent nearly a week on the run as police across the state looked for him, is a suspected career criminal who has been deported to Mexico three times, the last time in 1996, immigration officials said.

The manhunt began Friday, after Gallegos walked up to a patrol car and opened fire on Yap and Wade after they pulled him over about 1:20 p.m. near Long Beach Boulevard and Sixth Street.

Yap, a Fountain Valley High School graduate, was hit once in the face. Wade, a rookie who graduated from the police academy just three weeks ago, was shot several times in the chest and neck. The officers never got out of the car. They didn’t fire back.

Long Beach police tracked down a man named Gallegos in Santa Ana and notified Santa Ana police Wednesday that they would be tailing him. Officers said the man was a passenger in a Toyota Camry driven by another man.

Long Beach detectives were in plain clothes and in an unmarked car while they followed the Camry.

Detectives trailed the car to the 2000 block of South Flower Street and then called Santa Ana police to pull the car over and identify the man, Carrillo said.

Santa Ana officers pulled up to the parking lot at a strip mall on Warner as the two men walked back to the parked Camry.

Gallegos saw the officers and fired toward the police car, striking it once, Carrillo said. The three officers returned fire and struck the gunman. The second man did not shoot at the officers, Walters said.

Gallegos died at the scene, Carrillo added. The strip mall was crowded at the time of the shooting and customers and workers headed for cover as gunshots rang out. Stray bullets struck at least two parked vehicles and two businesses.

No one else was hurt during the shooting.

Batts was giving a news conference Wednesday night to announce a $75,000 award for information leading to the capture and conviction of Gallegos when a police official whispered the news of the shooting.

Batts abruptly called an end to the news conference. About an hour and a half later, he announced that Santa Ana police believed they had shot and killed Gallegos. Batts took no questions from the media.

Contact the writer: 714-796-6743 or kedds@ocregister.com