SANTA ANA – A Fresno gang member sat handcuffed in an 11th floor courtroom Friday as he was sentenced to 45 years to life in prison for the murder of his gang colleague, who was killed in a shootout with Fullerton police in 2006.

Arthur Kenneth Gallardo III, 32, was convicted by an Orange County jury in August of first-degree murder even though his gang friend was killed by police bullets.

Gallardo nodded at his father and grandmother who were in the gallery before and after his sentencing by Superior Court Judge Patrick Donahue.

Deputy District Attorney Colleen Crommett argued Gallardo was responsible for the death of Edmundo Francisco Gomez, even though he did not fire the fatal shots, under the “provocative acts” legal theory. She said Gallardo initiated a series of events that led to his friend’s death by firing his handgun with the intent to kill the police officers who surrounded the pair.

Crommett argued that, had Gallardo not opened fire on Fullerton police officers during the 2006 confrontation, the police officers would not have returned fire.

Witnesses testified that Gomez, 21, of Firebaugh, near Fresno, and Gallardo, an associate in the same gang, were passed out in a stolen Chevrolet Malibu that was blocking a lane of Harbor Boulevard in Fullerton.

The first officers on the scene observed Gomez, with a shotgun by his side, sleeping in the driver’s seat of the still-running car with his foot on the brake. Gallardo, who also appeared asleep, was sitting in the passenger seat holding a handgun, according to testimony.

When officers used a bullhorn to order the occupants of the car to drop their weapons and get out of the car, Gomez responded by jamming his foot on the accelerator while Gallardo started shooting at police cars parked in front of them, according to testimony from the officers.

Police responded with gunfire, striking both suspects repeatedly, killing Gomez and wounding Gallardo. No officers were injured.

The District Attorney’s Office investigated the shooting, as it does most officer-involved fatalities, and found no wrongdoing on the part of the Fullerton police.

None of the officers in the Gallardo case were part of the incident involving Kelly Thomas, who died after a confrontation with Fullerton police on July 5, Crommett said. Prosecutors have charged one officer with second-degree murder and another with involuntary manslaughter in Thomas’ death.

Gallardo was also convicted of two counts of attempted murder of police officers, street terrorism and penalty enhancements for using a gun during the commission of the crimes.

Contact the writer: lwelborn@ocregister.com or 714-834-3784