A police chase ends in a fiery crash, killing the driver, and tonight that driver's family is asking questions.

WAFF 48 Investigator Rachad Hollis sat down with the family this afternoon and files this report.

Family members say they want answers.

They say the crash that killed their loved one should have never happened.

It's the focus of tonight's WAFF 48 Investigators report.

"I want internal affairs of the police department to investigate everyone who was involved," says Tina Mosley, Jessica Sykes aunt.

Two o'clock Thursday morning, Huntsville Police spotted a vehicle that was believed to be wanted in connection with a robbery in Florence at a local gas station.

"The officer was saying on the report that I was given is that he saw the individual exit the car and go back to the car but he couldn't see inside the car," says Linda Shoulders, Brandon's mother.

After getting in the car, the chase began.

It ended with Brandon Shoulders dead and Jessica Sykes badly burned, hanging on to life.

The vehicle police were looking for was a silver or gray four door sedan.

Shoulders' mom says her son and Sykes were in a green car.

"They were looking for a gray or silver 4 door sedan. I wear glasses I'm not going to confuse green or gray in a lit ed parking lot of a service station," says Shoulders.

Family members believe that none of this would have happened if police would have just stopped them at the gas station.

"He saw him in getting in the car therefore you had ample time to stop him if you're an officer of the law and question him," says Shoulders.

The chase only lasted a few minutes, but not before hitting a power pole and bursting into flames.

Tina Mosley, Jessica Sykes aunt, says that this didn't have to happen

"We see all the tubes inside of her, we see all the burns on her face and it's our opinion that all of this could have been prevented. We want everyone to know that they were not involved in any robbery, no stolen car or anything what so ever."

Reporter: "If you had one last thing to tell your son what would you tell him?

"That I love him but I have no doubt that he knows I love him, he knows I love him," says Shoulders.

Huntsville Police say their sincere prayers go out to the families of Mr. Shoulders and Ms. Sykes.