A Montgomery County man is dead after a chaotic encounter with Sheriff's deputies. Two sheriff's deputies are on administrative leave and the ABI is investigating.

The incident began about mid afternoon Wednesday in a South Montgomery trailer park. Radio traffic describes how 48 year old Joe Lewis Berry began threatening his common-law wife.

The first transmission came from a deputy on the scene:

"He's sitting on the ground, got a knife in his hand."

A woman who later identified herself as Berry's common-law wife spent nearly 20 minutes on the phone with a dispatcher, who had a hard time understanding her.

"The female is ballistic," said the dispatcher, "I'm unable to get any information from her. She's just screaming and can't advise what kind of weapon he has. She's acting like he's coming at her with it."

When a neighbor came over to help, the woman told dispatchers Berry threatened her, too.

"She says the subject has four knives and he's throwing them at the subjects," relayed the dispatcher to officers.

Then two deputies, both veteran officers, arrived. It sounded like a routine domestic incident. Then the chilling call.

"204! Shots fired, subject is hit," said the deputy.

The dispatcher: "204 did you advise shots fired?"

The deputy: "204 shots fired, subject's been shot!"

And then the words suicide by cop are uttered.

Sheriff D.T. Marshall says Berry came at the deputies with at least one knife. It surprised them, because he said deputies had responded to the couple's trailer more than 20 times in the last two years and officers knew Joe Berry.

They have no idea why he reacted the way he did this time.

"At some point, he must have mentioned to them they would have to kill him," said Marshall, "because you can hear on the transmissions mention of suicide by cop."

The shooting happened in the middle of the street and several people witnessed it. But Marshall knows some people will question the deputies actions. He believes they had but one option.

"You heard the radio traffic, I heard the phone call. From what we were told, it appears they didn't have any other choice," he said.

Sheriff Marshall can't say much about the investigation but says Joe Berry had a criminal record with burglary, drugs and at least one domestic violence charge in his past.

Police don't know if the man was intoxicated or on drugs during the incident. The state will do an autopsy to provide those answers.

Sheriff Marshall says the county has no set time for deputies involved in shootings to stay on administrative leave.

But he says when both men and department counselors say they are fit for duty, they can return to work on the street.