As Daniela Fuentes regained consciousness Thursday in a hospital room, the first thing the 6-year-old thought of was her cousin.

"When she woke up, she asked where her cousin was," said the girl's uncle, Juan Carlos Fuentes.

Advertisement

Her parents didn't know how to tell Daniela that her best friend, 7-year-old Anais Ramirez, had not survived the crash, he said.

A speeding car struck the cousins and their grandmother Graciela Moreno, 54, Wednesday afternoon as they walked home from school. Daniela, the only survivor, is still in critical condition at the University of Chicago's Comer Children's Hospital.

Advertisement

Police on Thursday charged Michael Young, 41, with two counts of reckless homicide in connection with the accident.

Young allegedly was driving the white BMW that struck Moreno and the two girls just one block from their home in the 4900 block of South Wood Street. Police said the car ran a stop sign around 2 p.m. and crashed into another car before hitting them. Young was arrested after trying to run away, police said.

Several residents said the BMW was being chased by an unmarked police car, but police said Wednesday there was no pursuit.

Family members said Moreno walked her granddaughters to classes at the Chavez Multicultural Academic Center each morning and guided them home every afternoon. They had made it four blocks from the school, where the girls were in 2nd grade and pre-kindergarten, family members said.

Uncles, aunts and cousins who live nearby gathered at the grandmother's home Wednesday to await news about Daniela's condition. By the evening, her uncle received a call from Daniela's parents, saying the girl was conscious and "a little better," but still in critical condition with several broken bones and a head injury.

Family members were relieved that Daniela was recovering but said they are concerned about how she will react when they tell her of her cousin's death.

The Ramirez family raised the two girls as sisters after Daniela's mother left Chicago, Juan Carlos Fuentes said.

"They were always together," he said. "Whatever one did, the other one was there."

Advertisement

Anais Ramirez was a good student who enjoyed math and wanted to become a doctor. She also liked drawing pictures of princesses and dogs, Fuentes said. And she was always playing with dolls and going to the park with Daniela, he said.

Fuentes said his mother, Moreno, moved to Chicago from Mexico in 2000 to be closer to four of her six children after her husband died. She lived with Anais' mother, Maria Ramirez, and her husband, Ramon. Daniela and three other of Moreno's grandchildren also lived in the home.

Moreno watched the children while Maria Ramirez worked as a housekeeper downtown and Ramon Ramirez worked as a roofer. The family attended St. Joseph Catholic Church in the Back of the Yards neighborhood, Fuentes said.

"She was a good mother and a good grandmother. She loved them very much," he said, referring to the granddaughters.

Several people reported that a gray unmarked police vehicle was pursuing the BMW when the accident occurred. Neighbor Michaela Ireneo, 24, said she saw the BMW and an unmarked police car run a red light along 47th Street that afternoon.

But police spokeswoman Monique Bond said communication records do not show there was a police chase. Interviews with two women passengers in the BMW confirmed it, she said.

Advertisement

Police are not ruling out the possibility that the driver might have sped up after noticing an unmarked police vehicle on its normal route, Bond said.

Ald. Shirley Coleman (16th) said she asked police if reports of a chase were true, but a commander told her that they were unfounded.

Still, she said the crash emphasized dangerous traffic problems in the neighborhood.

Coleman has said she would work to increase speeding fines in school zones and extend the school-zone hours from 3 to 6 p.m. because many students have after-school activities.

Coleman said her office also received several calls about making donations to the family, and she is considering setting up a fund to help with funeral arrangements.

"We're saddened for the family," she said.

Advertisement

Neighbors and friends on Thursday gathered at a memorial to the victims, lighting candles and saying prayers.

Among those stopping to pay tribute to the victims was a mother who lost her 9-year-old son to a similar accident five blocks away. Joanna Perez remembered her loss as she left flowers and a teddy bear at the memorial.

In 1999, a tow truck hit her son Crisanto while he was riding his bike in the 4800 block of South Damen Avenue.

"I know how this feels. We're paying our respects," she said. "It could have been anyone. I walk this way every day."

----------

efitzsimmons@tribune.com