SNc Channels:



Search

About Salem-News.com



Jan-23-2007 20:31 TweetFollow @OregonNews One Dead, Four Injured After Police Pursuit Crash The investigation is being forwarded to the Linn County District Attorney's Office for consideration of criminal charges.

Photo: Oregon State Police

(ALBANY) - One person died and four others were injured Tuesday afternoon in Albany when the car the victim was riding in crashed with another vehicle while attempting to elude an Albany police officer. The Oregon State Police, with the assistance of the Linn Multi-Agency Accident Investigation Team, are conducting the investigation. OSP says at approximately 1:25 PM, an Albany police officer had attempted to stop a 1985 BMW 325E four-door with four occupants for erratic driving and speeding on Highway 20 at Burkhart in Albany. The driver failed to stop and sped off attempting to elude the officer on area roads. A few minutes after the incident began, the BMW was southbound on Waverly Drive and had just crossed through the intersection at Grand Prairie Road when it lost control. The BMW crossed the centerline and crashed into the front of a northbound 1995 Ford Mustang. After impact, the BMW rolled unknown times to where it came to rest on its wheels in Waverly Park about 50 feet off the road. Three passengers of the BMW were not using safety restraints and were ejected from the car. The driver of both cars where using safety restraints and were injured. The BMW's driver, 36-year-old Lynn Adams, from Albany, was transported by ambulance to Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Corvallis with serious injuries. Passenger 35-year-old Terez Jackson, from Albany, was transported by ambulance to Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center in Corvallis where she reportedly died at approximately 4:30 PM. The two other ejected BMW passengers were also seriously injured. 36-year-old Robert McElroy, from Albany, was transported by ambulance to Albany General Hospital. 37-year-old Tara Soto, from Albany, was transported by REACH air ambulance to Sacred Heart Hospital in Eugene. The driver of the Ford Mustang, 18-year-old Cassandra Ruark, from Albany, was transported by ambulance to Albany General Hospital with non-life threatening injuries. Her car's airbag deployed in the crash. Albany Police Officer Dezi Meza was the officer who attempted to stop the BMW. Oregon State Police troopers from the Albany Area Command office are investigating the crash with the assistance of the multi-agency accident investigation team comprised of officers from Albany Police Department, Sweet Home Police Department, and Lebanon Police Department. In addition to the above listed agencies, the Linn County Sheriff's Office dive team responded as a precaution to check the Waverly Park pond. Waverly Drive was closed about five hours during the investigation.

Albany | Crime | Most Commented on





Articles for January 22, 2007 | Articles for January 23, 2007 | Articles for January 24, 2007