Posted: 1/24/2007 4:32:07 AM EDT Porn suspect, ex-cop shoots himself

Wednesday, January 24, 2007

By NADIA M. TAYLOR

Staff Reporter

A former Mobile police officer, due in federal court today to face accusations of child pornography, shot himself in the head Tuesday evening at his home while federal agents were there to arrest him, police said.



Fredrick Renfroe, 44, was taken to the University of South Alabama Medical Center with a single gunshot wound, police spokesman Officer John Young said. Renfroe was in critical condition late Tuesday, a nursing supervisor said.



FBI agents and U.S. marshals were at Renfroe's Dunlop Street residence -- which he shares with his parents in Mobile -- to arrest Renfroe and revoke his probation for removing his electronic monitoring device, Young said.



Renfroe's parents were home at the time but were not injured, Young said. It was unclear whose gun Renfroe used or where he got the weapon, authorities said.



Deputy U.S. Marshal Jim Copeland said late Tuesday that the marshals were at the home only to assist the FBI.



Special Agent Tim White, an FBI spokesman, said he had no comment on the shooting late Tuesday.



Ronnie Branum, Renfroe's neighbor, said he saw several law enforcement agents surround the house Tuesday before the shooting.



"The trucks pulled up real fast, and the men got out, and they had on FBI jackets," Branum said. "They ran up to the door and (Renfroe) opened the door and then saw who it was and took off back inside the house."



Law enforcement officials "came in real quick after that and surrounded the house," Branum said.



He said agents brought a battering ram inside and "we heard them beat on a door two or three times. Then we heard a shot."



Branum said he used to speak with Renfroe when Renfroe served as a police officer but hadn't talked to him since he had been charged with possessing child pornography.



Renfroe's attorney, Donald Briskman, said late Tuesday that he had not heard that Renfroe had shot himself.



"I am terribly sorry to hear that. I knew there was an issue with the monitor, and I had understood the judge had issued the arrest warrant," Briskman said.



Renfroe, who was once named an officer of the month in 2003, was arrested last January after authorities said a search of his home turned up images of child pornography on his computer. He was on the Mobile police force for nearly four years but resigned the day before he was arrested.



The search was prompted by a complaint that he had used a hidden video camera to film a 12-year-old female relative taking a shower, authorities said at the time.



Assistant District Attorney Steve Giardini has said the alleged tape was not found and Renfroe "was not charged with anything regarding" the 12-year-old girl.



In the process of the search, Giardini said, investigators hauled away computers, discs and other related information belonging to Renfroe.



Renfroe was under house arrest pending trial.



U.S. Magistrate Judge Bert Milling Jr. tightened the requirements of that house arrest earlier this month after prosecutors reported that the defendant on Dec. 29 went to the workplace of his estranged wife, who intended to testify in the case.



Milling ordered that Renfroe could not leave his home except to go to work, unless he got permission from the Office of Pretrial Services.





The jury had already been selected for today's trial, and opening arguments were to start at 1:30 p.m. before Chief U.S. District Judge Ginny Granade.



Mobile County Personnel Board records show that Renfroe had gotten into trouble in the past.



In September 2004, Renfroe placed a false 911 hang-up call in order to have another officer respond to a certain convenience store, the records show.



The records show that he had made other false 911 hang-up calls, which "disrupted the efficiency" of the department.



Renfroe was suspended for 24 working hours in March 2005, according to the records.



On March 2, 2005, Renfroe lost control of his city vehicle and struck a utility pole at Springdale mall at the northeast side of Airport Boulevard at Interstate 65.



He had been authorized to respond with lights and sirens to a priority call at the mall. An investigation found that he was traveling too fast, the records said.



After the accident, Renfroe was suspended again for 24 working hours effective April 20, 2005, the records said.



http://www.al.com/news/mobileregister/index.ssf?/base/news/1169633815270940.xml&coll=3



One less scum bag breathing air.





