An O'Fallon man was found dead in his home Friday afternoon after police and the Metro West SWAT Team spent more than two hours waiting outside his house.

Police said they thought the man, who was described as being in his 80s, died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. He was the only person in the home at the time, police said.

Police did not release any other information about the man's identity.

O'Fallon police Capt. David Balcom said the man, who lived in the Parkview subdivision near Fort Zumwalt Park, called police just before noon and told them to come to his residence because there were going to be shots fired.

Balcom said the man's wife had just left the home when he made the call.

Police believed it was a hostage situation and thought several weapons were in the house, said Diana Damke, public information officer for the O'Fallon Police Department.

Members of the Metro West Crisis Negotiation Team, O'Fallon Fire Protection District and St. County Sheriff's Department stationed themselves on the back parking lot of the Christy Banquet Center at Veterans Memorial Parkway and Parkview Drive as well as in front of the man's home.

Part of the Parkview subdivision was blocked for several hours.

Some residents on Fort Zumwalt Drive were evacuated, and no one coming into the subdivision was allowed access to Fort Zumwalt Drive.

Mike Clemens, assistant superintendent of administrative services for the Fort Zumwalt School District, visited the area to determine if children coming home from school on the bus would be turned away. Police told him to keep the children living in that area at school until their parents could pick them up.

County air patrol sent a helicopter to survey the area. Police were also stationed in Fort Zumwalt Park.

Balcom said no one saw or heard from the man after he made the call to police.

"A lot of times with this stuff, you hope it's resolved quickly and safely," Damke said.

About 1:45 p.m., police cleared the scene and entered the house, where they found the man.

Police said they were not sure if he was dead before or after they arrived at the home.

Nina Kult can be contacted at nkult@yourjournal.com