CARBONDALE - State police have identified Lawrence Wirth, 22, of Carbondale as the man shot and killed by a Carbondale police officer early Monday morning. Wirth was allegedly restraining and stabbing another man when three Carbondale police officers arrived at 305 Beveridge St., responding to a 911 call by a witness about a stabbing in progress, state police said.

One of the officers ordered Wirth to drop the knife. He did not. The officer fired a single shot, which hit Wirth. Police declined to say where the shot hit Wirth.

Wirth was immediately taken to Memorial Hospital of Carbondale, where he was later pronounced dead. An autopsy was scheduled for Monday afternoon.

The stabbing victim also was transported to the Carbondale hospital, and was treated for multiple stab wounds and released. His name has not yet been released by police.

Police Chief Bob Ledbetter said police are well trained in the use of firearms and the appropriate use of deadly force. He referred to the scene as "violent" and the 911 call as "intense."

When asked if the violence was domestic in nature, Ledbetter said the possibility of such a motive was part of the investigation. As a result, he said, specific details were not available yet.

Deputy Chief Calvin Stearns said the department's policy follows the law, and allows the use of force "when it is necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm to the officer or to another person." The department's policy requires administrative leave time for any officer fatally shooting a suspect. Stearns said he could not comment specifically on Monday's shooting.

The state police are leading the investigation of the morning's events. Ledbetter said

"We call them in so the public knows this is a fair and objective investigation," he said.

Several neighbors said they did not hear anything suspicious or out of the ordinary on Sunday night or early Monday morning. Stephen Falcone, who has lived in the neighborhood 25 years, said his mostly collegiate and young neighbors are often "loud and raucous - but not dangerous." He said, though, the neighborhood seems to have turned in recent years, becoming more dangerous.

Ed Tilton, a member of the Delta Sigma Phi fraternity that recently moved into the neighborhood, said he was alarmed to have a serious crime so close to the frat house. He noted that another 22-year-old, Ryan Livingston, was stabbed to death last summer on West Walnut Street just around the corner from the fraternity's new home.

"I think the community has done pretty much everything they can (to make the neighborhood safer)," he said, adding that fraternity members have attended local Neighborhood Watch meetings. "For the police to get here while the stabbing was still going on - they must have gotten here very quickly."

Jackson County Coroner Dr. Thomas Kupferer and State's Attorney Michael Wepsiec are assisting with the investigation, state police said.

(618) 351-5076