Jonah Goldberg

Imagine a child falls down a well. Now imagine I offer the parents my ladder to save her, but only if they promise to paint my house. Would you applaud me for not letting a crisis go to waste? Or would you think I’m a jerk? I ask because I’m trying to come to terms with Rule No. 1 of the Obama administration: “Never allow a crisis to go to waste.”

White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel said that right after the election. During the weekend, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told an audience at the European Parliament, “Never waste a good crisis.” President Obama, in his Saturday radio and Internet address, said that there is “great opportunity in the midst of” the “great crisis” befalling America.

He says he wants to fix the financial crisis, but he’s focusing on selling his long-standing liberal agenda on health care, energy and education as the way to do it, even though it has nothing to do with the housing and toxic-debt problems that are the direct causes of our predicament.

The real scandal is this administration thinks crises are opportunities for governmental power-grabs.

Accidental truth

Michael Kinsley famously said that a gaffe in Washington is when a politician accidentally tells the truth. It’s funny because it’s true. But the White House tactic isn’t funny at all. It’s scary.

The first item on the bill of indictment against the Bush administration was it was “exploiting” 9/11 to enact its agenda. Al Gore shrieked that President Bush “played on our fears” to get his way. In response to nearly every Bush initiative, from the Patriot Act to the toppling of Saddam Hussein, critics would caterwaul that Bush was taking advantage of the country’s fear of terrorism.

The Bush administration always denied this, and rightly so. If the president admitted he was using a national calamity for narrow partisan or ideological advantage, it would be outrageous.

Now we have the president, along with his chief aides, admitting — boasting — that they want to exploit a national emergency to further their pre-existing agenda, and there’s no scandal. No one even calls it a gaffe. No, they call it leadership.

It’s not leadership. It’s fear-mongering.

In other realms of life, exploiting a crisis for your own purposes is an outrage. If a business uses a hurricane warning to price-gouge on vital supplies, it is a crime. When a liberal administration does it, it’s taking advantage of a historic opportunity.

Obama’s defenders state the president’s motives are decent, noble and pure. He wants to help the uninsured and the poorly educated. He wants to make good on his vow to halt those rising oceans.

But this is just a rationalization. Every president thinks his agenda is what’s best for the country; every politician believes his motives are noble. The point is that scaring people about X in order to achieve Y is fundamentally undemocratic.

E-mail Jonah Goldberg at JonahsColumn@aol.com