Information Regarding the February 9, 2007 Fatal Shooting Involving

a Fish and Wildlife Service Refuge Law Enforcement Officer

March 23, 2007



On February 9, 2007, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service Refuge Law Enforcement Officer James Coates, was involved in a shooting incident resulting in a fatality in a remote area of the Desert National Wildlife Refuge. During his regular patrol, he made contact with a white male, identified by the Clark County Coroner's Office as 46-year-old David C. Collopy of Las Vegas.



Since Collopy had a motorcycle in the back of his truck, Officer Coates stopped to inform him of the refuge regulations prohibiting the use of off road vehicles. During the contact, Officer Coates became aware that Collopy had ammunition in his possession and suspected that he may have had a weapon. As the contact progressed and Officer Coates continued to inquire about a weapon, Collopy drew a firearm on Officer Coates who responded, as trained, and discharged his weapon, striking Collopy who later died at the scene. Officer Coates was not harmed.



On March 23, 2007, the Clark County Coroner convened a Coroners Inquest to review the facts of the fatal shooting. A Coroners Inquest is a fact-finding procedure that takes place anytime an individual dies because of a law enforcement action within Clark County. The purpose of the hearing was to publicly bring forth all the details surrounding the incident causing the death. A panel of designated jurors heard testimony from pertinent witnesses and reached a verdict determining the death was justifiable.



Officer Coates acted within the scope of his employment as a Refuge Officer when the incident occurred. The Officer as well as other refuge staff and law enforcement officers were provided assistance of a professional counselor following the incident and continue to have access to professional services, as needed. Officer Coates was placed on light duty during the investigation and was provided legal representation for the Inquest proceedings.



In accordance with Service policy, the Law Enforcement Professional Responsibilities Unit (PRU) is also reviewing the incident, and an FWS Board of Review will be convened following completion of the PRU review to examine policies and procedures related to the incident.