A Chicago police detective posing as a pizza delivery driver shot and killed a teenager late Saturday who was believed to have been part of a group that habitually robbed pizza drivers on the Southwest Side.

But the restaurant owner whose call to police led to the sting said he wouldn't have done so if he knew someone would be shot.

Advertisement

"Somebody got killed, and it's not worth it," said Humberto Rodriguez, owner of Milano's Pizza, 8130 S. Kedzie Ave.

The Cook County medical examiner's office identified the boy as Lazeric Wood, 15, of the 8100 block of South Homan Avenue. Two alleged accomplices were arrested.

Advertisement

Police spokeswoman Monique Bond said the three teenagers, all 14 to 16 years old, were believed to have robbed at least nine delivery drivers from five Southwest Side pizzerias.

Police issued an alert to pizza restaurants on Jan. 31 about robberies that began with calls from cell phones ordering food sent to addresses within the same two or three block area, she said.

About 11:30 p.m. Saturday, Rodriguez called robbery detectives to report that an order had come in for four pizzas to be delivered to an address in the 8000 block of South Spaulding Avenue, an area where several robberies had occurred.

A detective went to the store to pick up the pizzas and delivered them to the Spaulding Avenue address as two other detectives watched from a surveillance vehicle. There was no answer at the home and no one appeared to live there, Bond said.

As the detective returned to his car, he was approached by the three teens, Bond said. As Wood pulled out a gun, the detective identified himself as a police officer, pulled out his gun and shot him, police said.

A second suspect was shot in the foot and taken to Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn. The third suspect ran but was later arrested. One of the boys was found to have two cell phones and admitted ordering the pizzas, Bond said.

The undercover detective was not injured. In a roundtable discussion Sunday, police decided the shooting was a necessary use of force, Bond said.

Rodriguez said he worries about retaliation at his family-owned business, where his drivers have been robbed 10 times in the last eight months.

Advertisement

"I feel sorry for the families," he said. "It's not their fault. It's not my fault either."

Owners and managers of other nearby pizza restaurants applauded the sting.

A manager of Waldo Cooney's Pizza, 8541 S. Pulaski Rd., said one of his drivers had his money, pizza and car stolen at gunpoint three weeks ago one block from the site of Saturday's shooting.

Like the officer, the driver found no one at the address, then was confronted by three men as he returned to his car.

"It's pretty cool," he said. "We got to have some protection out there. We're just trying to serve the public."

Chico Rivera, owner of Conte's Pizza, 8512 S Pulaski Rd., said he routinely stops deliveries that seem suspicious, particularly if they cannot get the person who ordered the pizza back on the phone.

Advertisement

Robberies have increased in the last five years, he said: "It's getting worse. The neighborhood is changing a lot."

----------

jbnoel@tribune.com