A man who allegedly tried to kill his stepson in rural Kane County took refuge in an Elgin home where he fired at police during a 27-hour standoff that ended Monday when he fatally shot himself, authorities said.

After tracking the man's cell-phone calls, dozens of police officers converged on the house, frequently coming under fire before the suspect killed himself in the attic, officials said.

Advertisement

"He would fire off rounds, several rounds as the officers tried to approach" during the standoff, said Elgin police spokeswoman Tamara Welter. "If the officers backed off, he would stop firing."

Dead is Mihal Babi, 43, who shot himself in the chest with a handgun about 4 a.m. Monday, police said.

Advertisement

The occupants of the house, which consists of four or five apartments, in the 300 block of West Chicago Street, fled when Babi refused to surrender. About 100 police officers, along with FBI agents, cordoned off a four-block area and evacuated residents, Welter said.

Authorities couldn't estimate how many shots Babi fired. Police didn't return fire but used tear gas and explosive devices called "flash bangs" to try to drive him out, she said.

Officers who entered the two-story house tried unsuccessfully to negotiate with Babi, according to police.

An officer said they were "lucky he didn't have a whole lot of ammunition, or we would have had a different scenario," Welter said.

Babi had no permanent address, but public records indicate he most recently lived in Florida. He was pronounced dead at Sherman Hospital in Elgin shortly after tactical officers heard a gunshot and entered the attic, police said.

The incident began about 4 p.m. Saturday when Babi allegedly confronted his estranged wife and stepson. The encounter occurred in the driveway of a Rutland Township home on Big Timber Road, where family friends lived, Welter said.

Using his car, Babi tried to stop his wife, Elpida Babi, 47, of Arlington Heights, from pulling out of the driveway, according to a statement Monday from the Kane County Sheriff's Department.

After threatening to kill his wife, Babi pistol-whipped his 31-year-old stepson when he tried to intervene, police said.

Advertisement

Babi shot at his stepson at least three times at close range but missed, authorities said.

The stepson was airlifted to OSF St. Anthony Medical Center in Rockford, where he was treated for head injuries and released Monday, authorities said.

Babi fled, driving to the home in Elgin, where friends lived, police said.

With the help of federal marshals who tracked his cell-phone calls, authorities located Babi about 12:45 a.m. Sunday, Welter said.

Babi's motive was unclear late Monday, police said.

On Dec. 9 Arlington Heights police were called to Elpida Babi's apartment in the 300 block of Seegers Road. Babi, whom she didn't want to see, was knocking on the door, said Police Sgt. Mike Hernandez. Babi left before police arrived, Hernandez said.

Advertisement

On Dec. 12, Elpida Babi received an emergency order of protection, said Hernandez, who did not know the reason for the order.

Elpida Babi called police again Dec. 20 to report a phone threat from her husband, said Hernandez, who declined to comment about the report.

"We never arrested or charged him with anything," Hernandez said.