Fourteen people were killed by NYPD cops this year. Some, such as Patrick Dorismond, garnered huge headlines; others got scant mention. Here is a capsule look at the incidents: JAN. 17 ALAN ZELENCIC, 28, inside 25-55 32nd St., Queens Zelencic, who had a history of mental illness, stabbed his mother in the basement of their home. When cops arrived, he allegedly charged at them wielding a 15-inch knife. Officer Jonathan Dudley, retreating, fired two shots, striking Zelencic both times. A Queens grand jury ruled the shooting justified. FEB. 5 DONALD MOORE, 37, inside 109-12 133rd St., Queens Moore was stabbing his girlfriend with a 9-inch knife when Officers Leon Niemczyk and Thomas Mardiney confronted him in a basement apartment. The cops fired three shots, hitting Moore in the arm and right side. Queens District Attorney Richard Brown found the shooting justified . MARCH 1 MALCOLM FERGUSON, 23, 1045 Boynton Ave., Bronx Ferguson was fatally shot in the head at close range by narcotics cop Luis Rivera during a struggle. Ferguson, who was unarmed, allegedly was selling heroin in the building's vestibule. Bronx District Attorney Robert Johnson declined to present the case to a grand jury, calling the shooting "accidental.

" The attorney for Ferguson's family said there was no evidence of a struggle. MARCH 16 PATRICK DORISMOND, 25, Eighth Ave. near 37th St., Manhattan Dorismond was leaving the Wakamba cocktail lounge when he was stopped by an undercover detective who asked if he and a pal were selling crack. Angered by the question, Dorismond punched the detective. When another detective, Anthony Vasquez, joined the fray, Dorismond allegedly grabbed the cop's gun, which discharged. Dorismond, who was unarmed, was fatally shot in the chest. A grand jury accepted Vasquez's contention that the gun discharged accidentally and he was cleared. The Manhattan U.

Advertisement

S. attorney is reviewing the case for possible civil rights violations. MARCH 31 TYSHEEN BOURNE, 19, (right, in 1991 photo) ANDRE FIELDS, 17, at 36 Cooper St., Brooklyn Two undercover narcotics detectives allegedly were confronted by the suspects, who were armed with toy guns. Detective Heriberto Mercado fired 13 shots and Detective Louis Canpana fired five shots at the suspects, killing both. The chief of department and chief of detectives rushed to the scene and showed the suspects' toy guns to the media to show how real they look. Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes ruled the shootings justified. APRIL 12 MALCOLM BURNO, 17, inside Jimmy Jazz clothing store, 520 Fulton St., Brooklyn Off-duty cop Nimrod Ollivierre was working as a security guard when two men set off shoplifting alarms. Burno drew a gun and exchanged gunfire with the cop. He was hit in the chest. An alleged accomplice, Claude Muller, 28, was wounded. Hynes ruled the shooting was justified. APRIL 22 JAMES MURPHY, 43, in front of 73-37 53rd Ave., Queens Neighbors called 911 to report Murphy was slashing his 70-year-old mother in front of their Maspeth home. When five cops arrived, Murphy went into the house and emerged holding a Luger handgun. Murphy, who has a history of mental illness, started walking toward the cops, who ordered him to drop the gun and knife. They fired 28 shots, killing him. Murphy's handgun turned out to be inoperable. Queens prosecutors are investigating. JULY 7 D'ANDRE DARNELL CISCO, 25, Grand Central Parkway at Francis Lewis Blvd., Queens Cisco was riding in his friend's Kia when he jumped out of the moving car. He ran to a pickup truck and punched the driver, off-duty Sgt. Stephen Borchers. Cisco then ran to the passenger's side of the truck and attacked off-duty Detective Jean Weller. Borchers and Weller shot Cisco five times. An autopsy disclosed that Cisco had marijuana in his system, but not enough to explain his actions. Queens prosecutors are investigating. AUG. 12 ARTHUR ALALOUF, 47, 16 Parkway Court, Brooklyn Alalouf threatened his parents and vowed to shoot cops if they came after him. Four Emergency Service Unit cops were wounded by the heavily armed gunman before he was fatally shot in the yard. Alalouf fired 87 shots during the six-hour siege. Brooklyn prosecutors are investigating. OCT. 20 REYNALDO COLON, 33, in front of 360 Troutman St., Brooklyn Colon, brandishing a small knife, confronted an undercover cop who had just purchased three bags of heroin and allegedly ordered him to "drop the dope.

" The detective fired four shots. The shooting is under investigation by Brooklyn prosecutors. OCT. 23 CARMEN VALENTINE, 22, 1185 DeKalb Ave., Brooklyn Off-duty cop Hai Loon Wang argued with tenants at his mother's and stepfather's building. The victim and her mother allegedly attacked Wang and his stepfather with an aluminum baseball bat and pool cue. Wang fired twice. Wang is stripped of his badge and gun. As one police official observed, "We're not too happy with his judgment.

Advertisement

" The shooting is under investigation by Brooklyn prosecutors. DEC. 24 JONATHAN LYNCH, 32, and JAMES CULBERSON, 25, Two Flag Deli Grocery, 162 Franklin St., Brooklyn Off-duty Detective Michael Zeller was helping his mother-in-law close her store when armed suspects announced a robbery. Fearing for the lives of his wife and two kids, Zeller shot the men as they were distracted by his 3-year-old daughter's cry, "Leave my daddy alone.

" Mayor Giuliani hailed Zeller as a hero. The shootings are under investigation by Brooklyn prosecutors.