Two Davenport police officers who shot Frank Elfgen to death Saturday night in a Davenport residence were in danger, which justified the shooting, assistant Scott County Attorney Mike Walton said Wednesday.

Walton announced his decision after reviewing the results of an ongoing investigation by the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation and the Scott County Sheriff’s Office.

But family members of the dead man said they are unconvinced police had to use deadly force.

Walton said the power at 1607 W. 6th St. was out when officer Jason Ellerbach responded to a 911 call placed by Elfgen’s roommate William Parker, 44. Parker told police Elfgen, 50, was in a first-floor bedroom threatening to kill himself.

When Ellerbach arrived around 9 p.m., he found Elfgen on the floor of the bedroom and ordered him to drop a knife he was holding, but Elfgen refused, Walton said. Ellerbach called for back up and eventually six officers were on the scene, Walton said, but their only source of light throughout the incident was their flashlights.

“Mr. Ellerbach had real concerns that Mr. Elfgen was going to harm himself,” Walton said.

Officer Jonathan Tatum tried to use a stun gun to incapacitate Elfgen but was not successful, Walton said. Elfgen tried to take a swipe at Officer William Hurt with the knife, and the officers backed out of the room with Elfgen pursuing them, Walton added.

Elfgen then charged at Ellerbach who was backed into a corner. Ellerbach fired his weapon three times striking Elfgen twice, Walton said. Hurt fired two rounds striking Elfgen two times, he said. At the time, six officers were in the small room or nearby.

Walton said Elfgen, who was acting irrationally throughout the incident, was so close he landed near Ellerbach’s feet.

“Mr. Elfgen presented a serious risk to himself and others,” Walton said. “Based on the investigation, it is my opinion that the actions of the officers involved were justifiable and reasonable under the circumstances.”

During the incident, three officers were hurt, including one who fell over a table while retreating. The two others suffered minor bruises from having to back up rapidly and bumping into things, Chief Mike Bladel said.

Before the shooting, officers tried to clear the room so they could negotiate with Elfgen and talk him out, Bladel said.

“This thing unfolded in milliseconds,” Bladel said. “He chose to attack our officers. It was the right response as far as I’m concerned.”

Bladel said it was already a hectic night for police with the ongoing ice storm and several power outages around the city. He said the department was fortunate to have as many seasoned officers at the scene as they did.

Bladel said the officers who were placed on administrative leave, will return to duty soon.

Walton said the investigation, which has included interviews with police and nonlaw enforcement witnesses, is ongoing, but he had enough information to reach his decision.

After the shooting, police arrested Parker, who was charged with assaulting a peace officer and public intoxication. Parker remained in custody at the Scott County Jail Wednesday. Parker slapped an officer’s hand away when they tried to take his cell phone after the shooting and refused to leave a squad car when police took him to jail, court records state.

Relatives of Elfgen said he recently had surgery on his foot and was in pain the night he was shot. Some relatives said gangrene had set in on the leg and Elfgen was trying to relieve the pain by removing the leg.

“I really don’t think my brother was trying to commit suicide,” said Dorothy Henson of Rock Island. “I think he was just out of his mind with pain.”

Bladel said there was evidence Elfgen had cut himself. When asked if it was possible Elfgen wasn’t trying to kill himself, he said it’s always possible to second guess the situation.

Lingle said Elfgen told his wife that a doctor wanted to remove his leg, but someone later told them that was not true.

Henson said she had heard several different stories about what happened the night her brother was killed but hadn’t heard from police.

“It’s all very confusing,” she said. “I don’t know what’s true.”

Henson and other relatives questioned the actions of the officers.

“I think something else could have been done,” Henson said. “I know people have a job to do, but I still think it could have been handled in a different manner.”

Janet Henderson, another sister, said she was glad no officers were hurt but is upset with police for not saving her brother.

“They were called and (told) it was a suicide,” she said. “Why didn’t they have people with training who could have talked him out of it? They killed my brother. I believe they could have done it in a different way.”

Given the circumstances the officers had little choice but to use deadly force, Bladel said, adding they didn’t have time to target specific parts of Elfgen’s body.

“They have a right to protect themselves and an obligation to protect the citizens of this community,” he said.

Dustin Lemmon can be contacted at (563) 383-2493 or dlemmon@qctimes.com.

Police dispatch

8:52 p.m.: Officers are dispatched to an attempted suicide at 1607 W. 6th St.

8:59 p.m.: Officer Jason Ellerbach is the first to arrive on the scene.

9:05 p.m.: Officer Jonathan Tatum tries to stop Frank Elfgen with a stun gun.

9:07 p.m.: Officer Ellerbach and Officer William Hurt each shoot Elfgen twice after he charges at Ellerbach.

The officers

Jason Ellerbach: A uniformed officer who has been with the department for more than a year. He has more than four years of police experience.

William Hurt: A plain clothed officer who has 14 years with the department.

Jonathan Tatum: A uniformed officer who has been with the department more than four years.

Three other officers at the scene were Gregg Behning, Errol Walker and Epigmenio Canas.