LAWTON-- They were justified to use deadly force. That's what the district attorney says about two Lawton police officers who fired shots at a stolen car suspect last weekend. The OSBI says four of the shots hit Billy Whitmore in the chest and killed him. Since that time, investigators have been gathering all the facts to determine whether Master Officer William Jenkins and Officer James Julian did the right thing by opening fire on Whitmore.

DA Robert Schulte says after reviewing the case, he has no doubt that Whitmore put the officers lives in danger. Last Sunday, police were on the lookout for a car that was reported stolen earlier in the week. When officers Jenkins and Julian spotted it, they followed it to the trailer park at Sheridan and New York Avenue. When the car stopped, they ordered Whitmore and a passenger to show their hands. OSBI says the passenger did, but Whitmore didn't. At that point witnesses say he began to rev the engine. "Other witnesses said it sounded like the engine was wide open. At that time, the officer entered the window on the driver's side in an attempt to keep him from backing up," said Schulte.

"He attempted to flee in the vehicle, as you well know, dragging one of the officers and actually striking the other officer slightly with the vehicle," said OSBI Inspector Richard Goss.

Goss says while officer Jenkins was being dragged, he fired four gunshots that hit Whitmore in the chest.

"It would have been, if not a contact, a very close range shot when he fired. The officers took every action they could to not have to use deadly force," said Schulte. That included firing a taser at Whitmore, although the medical examiner says it never hit him.

"A 3,000 pound automobile is just as deadly as a bullet fired from a gun. Actually more people are killed by automobiles than there are guns in any time in this country. So it is a deadly weapon," said Goss

Schulte says as far as his office is concerned, the two officers are cleared to go back on duty.