An unarmed city detective - wounded while trying to stop a gunman at a packed Brooklyn nightclub - was spared execution when a fellow off-duty cop shot the suspect to death early yesterday, police and witnesses said.

Officer Andre Clark fired eight shots at Kristen McKenzie, 21, hitting him four times, after the suspect wounded the off-duty detective, pinned him to the ground and pointed a gun at his face in the Elite Ark club, a police source said.

Advertisement

McKenzie "pointed the gun right at the detective's head," another source said. "It's a good shoot."

The 26-year-old detective, whose name the Daily News is withholding because he works undercover, was not carrying a gun at the time of the confrontation. He was in stable condition at Brookdale University Hospital yesterday with a bullet wound to his left foot.

Advertisement

The close-quarters gunfight erupted at 3:40 a.m. during a tribute to Brooklyn rapper Notorious B.I.G., who was shot dead in Los Angeles a decade ago.

The NYPD Internal Affairs Bureau was investigating whether Clark, 28, was intoxicated when he fired, which would be a violation of department policy.

Despite the internal probe, top police officials said Clark's supervisors determined after the shooting that he had been fit for duty. The officials also said Clark identified himself as a cop and only fired after McKenzie refused orders to drop his weapon.

Clark and the undercover detective had been at the New Lots club - which is known for attracting hip-hop and reggae giants, including Jim Jones, Sean Paul and Shabba Ranks - for about an hour, police said.

"The shooting appears to be within department guidelines," Deputy Police Commissioner Paul Browne said.

The shooting comes as a Queens grand jury is completing its investigation into the fatal police shooting of Sean Bell, 23. Bell was killed and two of his friends were wounded when cops fired 50 shots at the unarmed men on Nov. 25 in Queens.

Even though McKenzie was holding a loaded gun to the head of the wounded detective yesterday, his sister Andrea Pollidore argued the cops "could have defused this situation."

"They didn't have to kill him," said Pollidore, 33.

Advertisement

Elite Ark partygoers said they were surprised that anyone could get weapons into the club, adding that bouncers routinely conducted thorough searches.

But a source said surveillance video showed that McKenzie, who had been banned from club, sneaked behind security without being patted down.

Witnesses said the problems began when a young man was robbed of a necklace. The robbery touched off a brawl, which was broken up by security guards.

But one of the combatants returned with reinforcements and there was a larger fight involving as many as 25 people. The detective bumped into McKenzie and the two exchanged words, a police source said.

"I've got no beef with you," the detective said, according to the source.

But McKenzie put down his drink, brandished a 9-mm. handgun and fired at the detective, missing him, the source and two witnesses said.

Advertisement

The men wrestled over the gun, both fell to the ground and the weapon went off at least once more, wounding the detective, the police source said.

Clark, who works out of the 73rd Precinct in Brooklyn, then shot and killed McKenzie to save the detective, a longtime friend who police sources say he met at the Police Academy.

rmoore@nydailynews.com