BILLINGS — A coroner’s inquest jury took about 20 minutes Friday to agree that a Billings police officer was justified when he shot and killed a man who had fired 25 times during a six-hour standoff in the Heights.

The jury of six women and one man began deliberating about noon after hearing testimony from Officer Shawn Mayo, who shot and killed 41-year-old Dellos Edward Taylor on March 18. About 20 minutes later, the jury announced that it had reached a verdict.

The inquest began Thursday and included testimony from numerous officers about the events leading up to the fatal confrontation at Taylor’s residence on Naples Street. Several officers said gunfire from inside the house nearly missed them as they tried to evacuate residents of the neighborhood and secure the scene around Taylor’s house.

Taylor had called police shortly before midnight saying he was suicidal and armed. When officers arrived at the darkened house, Taylor opened fire with a .40-caliber Glock semiautomatic pistol, shooting through the front wall of the house. During the ensuing standoff, Taylor continued to fire sporadically, and bullets struck surrounding houses and vehicles. No one was hit by the gunfire.

At about 6 a.m., Mayo fired twice at Taylor with a .308-caliber rifle from a nearby rooftop at a distance of about 73 yards, hitting him the head and killing him instantly.

At the inquest hearing, Mayo said he could see a pistol in Taylor’s hand through his rifle scope and he believed Taylor was preparing to fire in the direction of officers gathered near the south side of the house. The SWAT officers were prepared to enter the house to end the standoff or apprehend Taylor if he came outside.

Other witnesses called Friday morning included Dr. Thomas Bennett, a forensic pathologist who conducted the autopsy on Taylor, and Missoula Sheriff’s Office Capt. Greg Hintz, who testified as an expert in police tactics.

Bennett said Taylor died of a single gunshot wound to the head. He said the bullet entered Taylor’s face in the upper lip and fragmented before lodging in Taylor’s spine near the base of the neck. Taylor’s spine was severed, Bennett said, and the man could not have survived the wound.

Bennett said toxicology tests showed Taylor had a low level of antidepressant medications in his system and diazepam (Valium). But Taylor’s blood alcohol level was 0.26 percent, Bennett said, well above the state legal limit for driving of 0.08 percent. Taylor’s intoxication level might explain why he did not react adversely to the large amount of chemical gas police fired into the home during the standoff, Bennett said.

Hintz said he believed Mayo was justified when he shot Taylor. He also told jurors that Mayo may have perceived Taylor was sitting directly in front of the window because his depth perception was affected by the magnification of his rifle scope.

Mayo told the jurors he believed Taylor was sitting directly in front of a window getting ready to fire when he decided to shoot. Taylor was later found sitting on a couch at the other side of the room.

Mayo, a member of the department’s SWAT team, told jurors he believed he had no choice but to shoot when he saw Taylor raise a pistol and look toward the area where officers had gathered nearby. Taylor sat back briefly after Mayo fired the first shot, and then he raised the pistol again, Mayo said.

Mayo fired a second time. Taylor slumped back and did not move again, Mayo said.

An investigation determined that Mayo’s first shot likely struck a tree branch and did not hit Taylor. Taylor’s pistol was found unloaded at his feet.

Mayo said he had a chance to shoot Taylor earlier, but he did not pull the trigger because he could not see a weapon in the man’s hands. The officer said he has analyzed the incident in his own mind and decided that he had no choice but to shoot.

“We gave the suspect six hours to just lay it down and walk out and he didn’t,” Mayo said. “He forced our hand.”

During a closing statement, Deputy County Attorney Ed Zink said it is impossible to guess at Taylor’s motive, but evidence suggested the man wanted officers to shoot him. Taylor kept shooting “until someone does to him what he doesn’t have the courage to do himself,” Zink said.

Zink asked the inquest jury to find the shooting justified. He said the officers deserved praise for their effort to protect the community.

“I know these men,” Zink said. “I work with them every day, and I’m proud and privileged to do so.”

After the verdict, Mayo said he was pleased that jurors supported his decision to shoot Taylor.

“I wasn’t ever in doubt what the outcome would be, but there is always that one in a million,” Mayo said.

Chief Criminal Deputy County Attorney Mark Murphy praised the “quiet courage” of city officers during the tense standoff.

“They ran toward the sound of gunfire to protect the community,” Murphy said.

Juror Denny Merek said the jury unanimously agreed Taylor’s death was the result of justifiable homicide. He said the only issue of concern among jurors was Mayo’s statement that he believed Taylor was at the window when he fired. The testimony by Hintz explained the discrepancy, Merek said.

“That’s the only concern we really had,” he said.

County Attorney Dennis Paxinos will review the verdict, which is advisory only, and determine whether any charges should be filed in the case. Murphy said it is unlikely the case would proceed any further.

“In our opinion it was a case of obvious justification,” he said.

Contact Greg Tuttle at gtuttle@billingsgazette.com or 657-1320.

20070825T024849Z