A former Lafayette police officer allegedly killed two 19-year-old college students outside Grand Junction when he slammed his SUV into the back of their car at high speed while fleeing from pursuing officers.

Patrick Strawmatt, 42, of Westminster is believed to have been driving drunk at the time of the Thursday night crash on Interstate 70 near Clifton, authorities said Friday. The chase that preceded the crash reportedly reached speeds well above 100 mph.

Mesa State College students Jennifer Kois of Brighton and Jacob Brock of Eagle were thrown from their car. The two were dating, family members said.

Strawmatt was being held Friday in Mesa County for investigation of first-degree murder, drunken driving, eluding police, vehicular homicide and numerous other charges, said Master Trooper Ron Watkins of the Colorado State Patrol.

A trucker called the State Patrol about 10 p.m. Thursday, saying that a westbound vehicle on Interstate 70 was weaving and going about 30 mph, Watkins said.

When a State Patrol trooper turned on his lights, Strawmatt’s 2007 Toyota 4Runner sped away and within 2 miles smashed into the back of a 2001 Saturn carrying Kois and Brock, Watkins said. Both vehicles rolled several times off the highway, he said.

When firefighters struggled to free him from the SUV, Strawmatt was belligerent, Watkins said. “He was spitting at them and swinging at them,” he said.

Both teens were taken by ambulance to St. Mary’s Hospital, where they were pronounced dead, Watkins said. Strawmatt was treated at the hospital for moderate injuries.

Katheryn Brock, 22, said everybody called her brother Jacob “big carrot top” because he had curly, shaggy red hair. “He lit everyone’s world,” his sister said. “He was fun loving.”

The teens had been seeing each other for just a couple of months, she said. “They had something very, very special,” Katheryn Brock said. “She was a wonderful girl.”

Jacob Brock, who played forward on the college’s hockey club team, was a talented runner and talked about majoring in health. Kois wanted to be a child psychologist, Katheryn Brock said.

A statement from the Kois family late Friday called the teens “a special couple. Even though they dated just a short time, you could see the love they had for each other in their eyes.”

The family statement called the crash “a deliberate act of violence” and added, “we can only hope and pray that (Strawmatt) is punished to the fullest extent of the law.”

Strawmatt was a police officer in Lafayette between 1987 and 1994, said Cmdr. Mark Battersby of the Lafayette Police Department. He declined to say why the officer left the force. Strawmatt then became a bail bondsman.

Strawmatt has a lengthy record of violence that includes punching the Park County sheriff last month and fatally shooting a dog, according to authorities and police records.

In May 2005, Strawmatt was arguing with his girlfriend at her Jefferson County home when her dog bit him in the leg, said Jim Shires, Jefferson County sheriff’s spokesman. Strawmatt retrieved a gun and shot the dog to death, Shires said. He was charged with cruelty to animals, he said.

In February, Strawmatt was speeding on U.S. 285 when Park County Sheriff Fred Wegener and a deputy tried to pull him over. The sheriff drove in front of Strawmatt’s Toyota SUV, according to a report written by Wegener, and Strawmatt rammed the sheriff’s car. Wegener drew his gun and ordered Strawmatt to get out of the car. When he didn’t, the sheriff smashed the driver’s side window with his baton, he wrote.

“The driver punched me in the jaw,” Wegener wrote. “I could smell a strong odor of an unknown alcoholic beverage about the driver.”

Staff writer Kirk Mitchell can be reached at 303-954-1206 or kmitchell@denverpost.com.