Warning; Viewer Discretion Advised. Graphic images may be disturbing to some viewers. The surveillance video obtained by the Union-Tribune does show the actual footage of the shooting from the surveillance video that was leaked of the deadly shooting of [tag]Ramiro Gamez Acosta[/tag], an immigrant, by a [tag]Border Patrol[/tag] agent. Acosta, 20, was blasted in the chest by a Border Patrol agent with an M-4 carbine. The Mexican government is calling for an investigation.

[Note: 5/04/07 – Unfortunately, [tag]YouTube[/tag] I mean [tag]Google[/tag] has decided to [tag]Censor[/tag] this video and has taken it down. That is OK I have another copy of it. I will put it back up, soon.]

According to the Union-Tribune, it was a case of “self-defense.”

Surveillance video of a deadly shooting last month of a would-be illegal migrant by a Border Patrol agent is prompting calls by the Mexican government for an investigation, although it shows the agent apparently firing in self-defense.

Self-defense from what? This type of behavior seems to be normal, recently Agent Nicholas Corbett was charged with first-degree murder of Francisco Dominguez-Rivera, of Puebla, Mexico, who was unarmed at the border in January. Corbett was also charged with second-degree murder, manslaughter and negligent homicide. His excuse – he claimed he “feared for his life,” however, Corbett’s account didn’t match witness testimony or forensic evidence.

The present racial crisis in this country carries within it powerful destructive ingredients that may soon erupt into an uncontrollable explosion.

Update:

The autopsy report that was released today revealed that Acosta died from a single gunshot wound to the chest. According to recent reports, the incident occurred when Border Patrol encounter a group of individuals who allegedly began attacking them with rocks. I use the term a “group of individuals” because there is conflicting reports in the media on what actually occurred. According to Greg Gross of Union-Tribune:

The incident occurred during a violent encounter between agents and illegal border-crossers, about a mile west of the Calexico border crossing.

However, local NBC affiliate KYMA-TV reported:

Agents say a group of suspected smugglers began attacking them with large rocks. Agents believe Gamez Acosta was one of the smugglers.

The Mexican government called for an investigation after Pablo Arnaud, Mexican consulate in Calexico, saw the full version of the incident on the Internet. According to Border Patrol supervisor David Kim, the FBI will investigate the shooting.

On the video, it doesn’t appear to show that the Border Patrol agent is being attacked, however you do see Acosta cock his arm back, which at that time the agent fired at him. Even more disturbing, after Acosta was gunned down, it seems somebody in the Calexico station moved abruptly moved the surveillance camera to the left. Was this done on purpose? There many question that need to be answered.

This post is cross-posted over at Scholars & Rogues, a new group blog I participate in.