Reasons to avoid a high speed chase?

Well, there are many reasons to avoid a high speed chase. It endangers other drivers, endangers yourself, ruins your nice car... But I actually saw a complete idiot last night driving. We were at my friends house 2 minutes from the interstate and suddenly I hear a car flying past their house. My friends saw a silver BMW. City cops and state troopers are seconds behind in persuit. We figured he would get caught soon after, but kept wondering where did he end up going and did he get caught. Read below, he kills the passender and wrecks several cars. Just because you have a car that can go 155 does not mean you can escape a COPS RADIO. I think it is fun to go fast, but buy a nice radar system ( which I am in the process of doing) and going 90-100 on open interstate should be the limit. No need to ever exceed that limit- that way you have a chance to talking yourself out of going to jail ( have to go over 100 in LA). Oh, and pull over as soon as you do get caught.







High-speed police chase ends in fatal car crash





Advocate staff report

Published: Apr 1, 2007





A passenger in a 2004 BMW was killed late Friday as the driver fled State Police in a 16-minute high-speed chase on Interstate 10 and Baton Rouge city streets at speeds as high as 120 mph.



The passenger, George R. Hay, 32, Rialto, Calif., suffered fatal injuries when the driver, Tracy L. Trammell, 39, Baton Rouge, crashed into three vehicles near the Essen Lane exit off I-10, a State Police news release said.



Trammell is accused of driving while intoxicated, troopers said.



The incident began at 11:16 p.m. Friday on the westbound lanes of the I-10 Mississippi River bridge when a trooper observed the BMW did not have a license plate.



The trooper tried to halt the BMW, but the driver sped up to 80 mph, authorities said.



The driver then led troopers on a chase through two parishes that ended with the fatal crash around 11:32 p.m.



Traffic slowed the chase, and the BMW tried to move from the right to the center lane, sideswiping an Acura sport/utility vehicle, and causing a chain reaction.



After hitting the Acura, the BMW crashed into a Dodge Magnum and then was struck on the passenger side by a 2003 Dodge pickup.



The passengers in the Acura, Magnum, Altima and Dodge pickup suffered minor injuries. None received medical attention.



Hay, the passenger in the BMW, was pronounced dead at the scene.



Trammell, 39, 11616 Industriplex Blvd., the driver of the BMW, was uninjured. Troopers booked Trammell into Parish Prison on counts of first-offense DWI, no vehicle registration, aggravated flight from officer, reckless operation and vehicular homicide.