SWAT Members Standoff with Suspected Gunman Photograph by: Joe McCoy/WAFB-TV

Two men are dead and a local high school was put on lockdown, while police searched for the gunman Thursday morning. Police say 79-year-old Forrest Dent, also known as "Jambo," shot 68-year-old Junius James Smart, or "Juicy," and then turned the gun on himself.

It happened at a residence in the 2200 block of Kentucky Street, just blocks away from McKinley High School. Police say it was a case of landlord shoots tenant. But detectives and family members say they have no idea why all this went down.

Herbert Smart says, "I'm just in shock." Herbert Smart is a little disturbed, and with good reason. He says he had just dropped his brother, Junius , lovingly known as "Juicy" off at his home on Kentucky Street about ten minutes before it happened. He says, "I was on my way home and I got a call from my son who drives 18-wheelers, telling me someone called and told him my brother got killed."

Smart says he immediately turned around to go back to his brother's house. When he drove up, it was a different scene from the one he had just left moments before. His sister, Faye looked from behind the fence of a nearby church, as a street full of detectives collected evidence. Crime tape and special response team members surrounded the home where Herbert saw his brother lying dead on the front lawn.

"It's a big surprise because I had just left him off and I thought it was a joke somebody was trying to pull," Herbert Smart says. Herbert says he was even more surprised to learn Forrest Dent, "Juicy's" landlord and good friend was the triggerman. According to Herbert, "They got along good." "So, it's a real surprise to you?" Cheryl Mercedes asks. "Yeah, a shock to me," replies Smart.

Just before noon, Baton Rouge police corporal L'Jean McKneely had even more bad news. Dent had turned the gun on himself. McKneely says, "We went inside and that's when we found him sitting inside with a gunshot wound."

The motive behind this incident is still under investigation. McKinley High was on lockdown as a precautionary measure.

Reporter: Cheryl Mercedes, WAFB 9NEWS