ST. LOUIS • It has been nearly four years since Karen Cummings lost her husband in a crash on Interstate 270 that cost taxpayers $700,000 and left a man in prison to reflect on a bad decision.

The last lingering formalities about the incident will soon be closed by the completion of the final estate papers.

And the St. Louis Police Department is left to use the lessons of the day in a continuing struggle to get officers to check their enthusiasm when it comes to certain high-speed pursuits.

There was no formal admission of wrongdoing in the wrongful-death settlements the department and city paid to the Cummings family. But Chief Dan Isom says mistakes were made in a chase that crossed paths with a beloved family man who was just trying to get to work.

"You don't live with somebody for 26 years and have that kind of relationship and not have long-lasting feelings of loss," said Cummings, an assistant professor of art education at University of Missouri-St. Louis. "It was a wonderful marriage, and we have two wonderful children. That part of my life I will never forget.

"To say I will move on, I will just move on differently than expected."

Her husband, James Cummings, 46, a trucker from Ferguson, was on his way to work around 3 a.m. April 6, 2007, when he came head to head with the bright lights of a stolen Ford F-150 pickup driven by Sean Like, 23, who was unemployed, had a drug problem and was about to be the father of his sixth child.

Like had led police on a chase of about 25 miles, after city police Officer Robert Lang spotted the truck downtown. He thought it fit the description of a vehicle that had been involved in a rash of smash-and-grab burglaries that were hitting businesses every night.

"They were urban terrorists on a rampage," Lang testified in a pretrial deposition in Karen Cummings' suit. The department, technically operated by the state, and city shared financial responsiblity.

He added, "And they were not going to stop."

Like said in a prison interview last week that he and a friend were driving to visit a friend when he noticed somebody suspicious following them. Like said he ran a stoplight to gauge the response and soon realized it was an officer in an unmarked car.

"Instead of stopping, which I regret, I took off," he said. "I panicked."

The chase, which came to involve several more officers, soon spilled onto Interstate 70 and then through residential north St. Louis, often at high speeds. One officer testified later that after a car nearly pulled into the path of the truck, he dropped out of the pursuit, feeling it was too dangerous. Another testified he followed taillights from a safe distance.

Like said he kept going because he was scared of being beaten. He said he looked in vain for a good place to bail out.

A police supervisor called off the pursuit before Like raced over the Mississippi River on I-270 and into Illinois, although it is disputed whether officers obeyed. Like, who said officers were close behind him the whole time, circled the truck back to Missouri and got off the highway at the Riverview Drive exit, only to re-enter 270 again.

This time, he drove up the exit ramp, against traffic, in the eastbound lanes. That's where he collided with James Cummings, who was driving his son's Saturn. The accident destroyed the front half of the car.

Like and his companion somehow escaped on foot through the nearby woods.

Authorities were left with the grim task of telling Karen Cummings why she was a widow.

HOT PURSUIT

A week after the crash, DNA evidence led to Like's arrest, police said. He wanted mercy and pleaded guilty of second-degree murder, tampering, resisting arrest and leaving the scene of an accident, and was sentenced to 25 years in prison. The passenger wasn't charged.

Lawyer Charles Chapman, a former Illinois trial and appellate judge, helped represent Karen Cummings in her suit.

"The chase never should have occurred," Chapman said. "I have a lot of respect for police, but not under these circumstances."

In August, the Police Department paid $550,000 and the city paid $150,000 to settle the suit. It was the highest settlement the department paid in 2010.

Police Chief Isom, who wrote his doctoral dissertation about police pursuits, says the officers were wrong.

"Certainly, if we could take it back ...," Isom said, his voice tailing off. "Nobody wants somebody to die as a result of a property crime."

"Officers got overzealous," he added. He also said supervisors didn't do enough to stop it. "Those are the cases that we try to train for, try to make sure people understand the reason why we have the policy."

The first line of the department's pursuit policy says "few policing activities are as potentially dangerous to officers and others as pursuits." High-speed chases, it continues, are saved for occasions when an officer believes a suspect committed a felony involving "the use or threatened use of deadly force" and a delay in apprehension poses danger.

It can be a difficult balance, the policy says, to both make arrests and manage a safe environment, yet "when the risks of injury to anyone become greater than the consequences of the apprehension, then the pursuit is no longer reasonable."

Since he became chief in 2008, Isom requested annual internal audits on pursuits. The first audit available, which includes 2009 data, indicated that 23 of 65 reported pursuits, or 35 percent, involved or ended in an accident. The median length of a pursuit was six minutes. Calls for carjacking, robbery and assault on a police officer resulted in the most pursuits.

The audit for 2010 is expected later this month.

The U.S. government reports that more than 300 fatalities a year result from police pursuits. However, Geoffrey Alpert, a criminology professor at the University of South Carolina who has studied pursuits for years, said he believes that number is underreported and in reality may be twice as high.

Though there have been improvements with the development of pursuit policies, he said more training is needed. He estimates that 30 to 40 percent of pursuits end in crashes, 20 percent result in injury and less than 1 percent result in death for either the officer, suspect or a bystander.

"Police are given lots of training to use a firearm that many will never use," he said. "Now we have pursuits that most cops are likely to get in, but there is hardly any training."

Though the St. Louis pursuit policy is usually honored, Isom said, the Cummings case is significant because of the duration of the chase — some 20 minutes — the fatality, and because it was not consistent with policy.

But Isom said it's a frustrating situation because police saw a vehicle that was possibly responsible for a significant number of burglaries "and our policy says let them go."

Police say it creates a danger as well when criminals know they can take off without threat of pursuit.

DOING TIME

The crash left Karen Cummings weighing the loss of a supportive husband against the Police Department's effort to protect property from being stolen.

She did not seek publicity in the case, and politely blamed both Like and police for errors in judgment.

"If any one decision had been changed, I think my husband would be here today, because he was just going to work," she said. "He was doing what he was supposed to do, and he was in the wrong place at the wrong time."

As a result, six officers were given a refresher course on pursuit policy; one sergeant was verbally reprimanded, and two lieutenants were suspended for one day. Three of the officers involved have since left the department, including one who testified that he had been involved in a number of chases that resulted in crashes.

Like, now 26, is serving out his sentence in a prison in tiny Licking, in south-central Missouri. He's working on a high school equivalency diploma and an appeal, and receiving occasional updates about his children.

"I take full responsibility for what I done, but at the same time I never meant to harm anyone," he said.

Many people wrote the judge letters before his sentencing hearing, trying to nudge him higher or lower on the penalty scale.

Like's family argued that he should face a lesser involuntary manslaughter charge, complaining that a long prison term "would be more harm than good."

One of the shortest notes came from Cummings' niece Katherine Wilks. She wrote that Like "didn't even consider what he was doing, but selfishly took someone's life to try to avoid getting in trouble with the law, unsuccessfully. Anyone who makes such a poor decision deserves to be punished for it."

She indicated that she can only wish her uncle could have the second chance at life that Like will get after prison.

Instead, his family is left only with memories of a good husband, father and friend, always willing to share his talent fixing things.

One reminder of Cummings' passion is a truck collecting dust in the garage. He had attached the body of a 1953 Willys Jeep pickup to a newer chassis and extended the fire wall to better fit his tall frame. He built a custom bed and painted the whole thing dark green.

Dublin, a dog that he and his wife inherited from one of their two sons, used to ride shotgun with him in the truck. To this day, if Dublin gets loose, Karen knows to open the garage and fire up the engine.

"He'll come running," she said.