TEMECULA -- A pedestrian who died early Saturday was trying toget home after a minor car accident but was injured during anincident with California Highway Patrol officers, his sister andtwin brother said Monday.

Mario Alberto Garay, of San Diego, was on foot after theaccident near The Promenade shopping center Friday evening, VictorGaray and Alejandra Garay said. The Riverside County Sheriff’sDepartment is investigating the incident, but a spokesman declinedcomment Monday.

Garay, 26, called family members between 8 and 9 p.m. Friday topick him up at a vitamin shop near the mall, but when they arrived,he was gone, they said. As the night went on, he tried to flag downmotorists in the darkness, they said. Several minutes before 3a.m., a driver on Interstate 15 saw Garay and summoned authorities,who soon arrived and confronted him, his brother said, citingconversations with nurses and investigators.

Advertisement

Garay crossed the northbound lanes of Interstate 15 at leastonce before officers confronted him, Victor Garay said. At onepoint, they began to handcuff Garay, but he ran, the brothersaid.

An officer then subdued him with pepper spray, according to thebrother. Garay fell to the ground, and received what appeared to bea minor scrape to the forehead, Victor Garay said.

“When the ambulance arrived at the hospital, he was flat-lined,”Victory Garay said. “All he wanted to do was come home.”

Family members weren’t clear on whether officers initiallyintended to pick him up, and they had gotten conflicting stories onhow aggressive he had appeared to officers, Alejandra Garaysaid.

Victor Garay said he believes his brother was not under theinfluence of alcohol or other substances.

“I know my own brother,” he said. “He would never take anyillegal drugs or alcohol.”

Sheriff’s Sgt. Dennis Gutierrez wouldn’t comment on details ofthe autopsy, which he said was completed Monday morning. Nor wouldhe confirm the siblings’ assertion that their brother had beenpepper-sprayed.

Gutierrez said he was waiting for the Highway Patrol to provideinformation about the initial encounter, which he said involvedofficers with that agency. Highway Patrol spokesmen in Sacramentoand Temecula referred questions back to Gutierrez.

Results of a toxicology analysis are expected by June, Gutierrezsaid.

Garay died at 3:59 a.m. at Rancho Springs Medical Center inMurrieta.

Garay lived with his sister and parents near Memorial Park incentral San Diego. He was studying electronics at an ITT TechnicalInstitute campus in San Diego County, she said.

He had apparently been in a fender bender some time before 9p.m. Friday, Alejandra Garay said. She didn’t know the details ofthe accident, but said it seemed minor. Authorities hadn’t foundthe car as of Monday morning, she and Victor Garay said.

Mario Garay was calm and lucid Friday evening on the telephone,she said.

Garay had called earlier in the afternoon from a location in ornear Orange County, and again, after the car accident, fromTemecula, she said.

“We’re really confused right now,” Alejandra Garay said.

Contact staff writer Chris Bagley at (951) 676-4315, Ext. 2615,orcbagley@californian.com.