A Lewis and Clark County jury will hear testimony and view videos this week to determine if the Montana Highway Patrol was negligent in the shooting death of a 13-year-old Havre boy who led officers on a car chase in Chouteau County in 2007.

Michelle Keeley, the mother of Mark Andrew Keeley, is seeking nearly $2 million for her son’s suffering and for her own damages. Her jury trial against the state before District Judge Dorothy McCarter starts Monday and is expected to last most of the week. The jury will probably see a video recording of the shooting and more as recorded from a trooper’s dashboard camera.

The suit says that “no one was in immediate danger” from the boy when a state trooper opened fire with multiple rounds in what Keeley calls “a blatant use of excessive and deadly force.”

The state says that the boy was voicing suicidal thoughts before the car chase and told a schoolmate he planned to get himself shot by police. Maxon Davis, a lawyer representing the state in the case, said the boy shot at officers and the officers fired back.

Both sides agree that at about 10:56 p.m. on April 21, 2007, authorities heard about a driver leaving a Chester gas station without paying for fuel. About 25 minutes later, Chouteau County Deputy Kyle Meier spotted the suspect car, a 1985 Honda Accord, and activated his lights and sirens to pull Mark Keeley over.

But Keeley didn’t stop, and the Montana Highway Patrol put down “stop sticks” to puncture the tires of the Accord.

According to the suit against the state, Keeley, who had a shotgun with him, drove off the road after his tires were punctured, but then got the car back on the road.

The car stopped a second time, and the confrontation ended in gunfire.

“His shots were slow and aimed, with the intent to strike the driver,” the lawsuit says of the 17 shots it claims MHP Patrolman Jason Wickum fired from his M-14 before switching to his .357 service pistol. Meier also “opened rapid fire,” with his M-4 through the passenger-side door, the suit says.

The suit says the officers could have performed “tactical containment,” and did not allow any chance for a peaceful resolution of the conflict.

“Defendant Wickum decided early on that he was going to shoot the driver,” Michelle Keeley’s lawyer, John Doubek, wrote. “From the beginning he took an offensive role which even endangered the other officer, Meier.” Doubek did not return a telephone call seeking comment on the case and trial.

The state is arguing that Keeley, at a gathering of Havre Middle School students, had been threatening to kill himself over apparent rejection by a girl. According to the state’s contentions as outlined in the judge’s pre-trial order, he then threatened to kill another child to get the police to kill him, and then spoke to two people about stealing a gun and shooting at police to draw return fire.

He stole a gun, a shotgun and ammunition, drove to Chester and drove off without paying $8 owed for fuel.

When he was finally stopped by the stop sticks, he fired at one of the officers, the state says. When the deputy ordered Keeler again over a loudspeaker to surrender, Keeler responded with expletives and more gunfire, according to the state.

Both officers returned fire, and Keeley died from the wounds.

Expert witnesses for both sides are set to testify on the procedures and tactics of the officers. The lawsuit was filed in Helena, which is the central office for the Montana Highway Patrol.