K.C. Park didn’t have to wait for anyone to tell him both his parents were dead. When he heard the pop-pop-pop-pop of a police officer’s firearm 20 feet in front of him, he knew they were both gone.

K.C., 17, and his two sisters, Christie, 23, and Amanda, 8, buried their two parents at Pacific View Memorial Park one week after the April 22 incident. Each parent had four gunshot wounds, said Harley Bjelland, the siblings’ attorney.

As they try to put their lives back together, the children are also trying to make sense of what led to the Sunday morning confrontation with police at the Montage Resort and Spa in Laguna Beach.

On Wednesday, they sat down for three hours, outlining the shooting and the events leading up to it. They declined to discuss some details; police have declined to corroborate others.

Laguna Beach police said both Joni Park, 48, and Kevin Park, 49, pointed a semiautomatic handgun at officers. Officers responded to an initial call of a domestic dispute at the resort, but before arriving, police received calls of a woman pointing a gun at hotel staff members and guests.

“At different moments in the room each one had possession of the gun separately and aimed it at police officers instead of putting it down,” Laguna Beach police Sgt. Jason Kravetz said. “The officers made numerous attempts to de-escalate the situation, but the Parks didn’t comply with their requests.”

Christie and K.C. said they never saw their parents point the gun at anyone, but also couldn’t see into the room as police opened fire.

The nightmare began for the family on April 17 when Kevin and Joni Park were reviewing their income tax information, K.C. said.

While going through financial documents, the Mission Viejo parents told K.C. and Christie they found some disturbing information regarding a family company.

Christie and K.C. declined to say specifically what their parents found. Whatever it was frightened them.

On April 20, the parents called sheriff’s deputies while K.C. was at school.

A report taken by an Orange County sheriff’s deputy that day showed the couple were concerned about a financial “black cloud,” Laguna Beach police Capt. Danell Adams said. Oliver Park, Kevin’s recently deceased father, had been involved in real estate in Los Angeles and Hawaii. Adams said it appeared the Parks’ concerns centered on a family-owned real estate company, OKP Ltd. (The name stands for Oliver, Kevin and Patrick Park, Kevin’s brother.)

The next morning, the parents asked Christie to fly down from San Francisco, where she lives. She landed in Burbank at about 9 p.m.

When she arrived in Mission Viejo, the family started loading a van with seven or eight clear boxes of financial documents, a printer and the entire contents of a safe, including a Smith & Wesson semiautomatic handgun.

Bjelland said Kevin and Joni Park took the gun, like the documents, as pieces of evidence they wanted to show police. K.C. said he didn’t even know his parents had a gun.

“They were just getting everything that was valuable,” Christie said. “I had a feeling they didn’t know how long they were staying. They seemed like they were scared, nervous.”

K.C. and Christie said their parents, fearing for their safety, decided to stay at a hotel for the night. They paid cash, registered under the name Blakemore and used a fake address.

Inside their bungalow, the family ordered filet mignon chili and pizza while Kevin and Joni Park talked to Christie about what they had found.

“Mom was inundated with things she wanted to tell me,” Christie said. “This had been on her mind all week.”

When Christie, K.C. and Amanda had gone to bed by 2 a.m., things seemed to have calmed down. The siblings could hear their parents talk in a separate bedroom.

“I’m sorry if I’m freaking you out, but everything is going to be fine,” Joni Park told Christie.

The siblings woke up at about 7:30 a.m. Joni Park looked “confused and scared,” Christie said.

Joni Park, who regularly walked around naked at home, was nude inside the rented bungalow when she said she wanted to contact police to show them documents. Christie decided to take her brother and sister away for a walk.

“We were trying to tone things out. We didn’t want a scene,” she said.

After a few minutes, K.C. and Christie looked back toward their room and saw their mother, who had put on a pink and green sleeveless dress, on the bungalow’s patio, arguing with a security guard.

Christie told her siblings to look away. K.C. looked back a moment later.

“Oh, God, she has the gun out,” he told his sisters.

K.C. ran over to his parents and said he tried to help his father take the gun away from his mother.

“I basically tackled her and grabbed her by the wrist,” K.C. said. Kevin Park snatched the gun from his wife.

K.C. said his father gave him a look he won’t forget.

“There was just this look he had that said, ‘I love you, and I’m so sorry now,’ ” K.C. said. Then his parents went back to the room.

His mother tried to get the gun back from his father, but Kevin Park kept it away from her as he walked back into the room, K.C. said.

Christie, thinking that her mother might be arrested, took her younger sister Amanda and decided to take a taxi to their grandmother’s home.

K.C. was walking away from the bungalow when a security guard beckoned him.

His mom, now in the room, had the gun again.

K.C. said he wanted to ask the security guard for a chance to calm his mother down. As he walked over a police officer grabbed him and pushed him to the side, telling him to get out of the way, he said.

Before any shooting started, Kevin Park called 911.

“I’m the husband; she’s my wife. We didn’t do anything wrong,” he told a dispatcher.

A police officer carrying what looked like an assault rifle ran past him, K.C. said, and knelt behind a tree. Another officer, with a handgun, took a position nearby.

“Drop the gun,” K.C. heard an officer yell. He heard the first shot, then a series of pops. K.C. said he couldn’t see his parents, only the jerking of the rifle as the officer fired. Police said a second officer also fired.

“Just pop, pop, pop, pop,” K.C. said, simulating the fire. “After that one shot it was like a war zone.”

Aside from the command to drop the gun, he never heard police try to communicate with his parents, he said.

“The only negotiation was, ‘Drop the gun,’ ” K.C. said. “I thought maybe I could talk to them. They didn’t give me the chance to do that.”

K.C. planned to return to school today. Christie has decided to stay in Orange County for now. The siblings are staying with family.

Staff writer Erika I. Ritchie contributed to this report.

Contact the writer: 949-454-7361 or shernandez@ocregsiter.com