A fugitive, jacked up on PCP, hides in the back of a second-floor bedroom with a handgun and rifle. He's been on the run since he shot a state trooper in a traffic stop the day before.



Trooper David Brinkerhoff moves into the bedroom. The fugitive, Travis Trim, shoots him in the chest with a handgun. Brinkerhoff, a 5-foot-5-inch bulldog known as Brink, is saved by his vest but falls.

He gets up and advances again. He crouches in the doorway and aims his rifle. Trim tries to point his hunting rifle. Brink hits him with a shot to the right eye. Threat eliminated.

But in the flurry of gunfire, another trooper fires at Trim from three to four feet behind Brink. The round hits Brink in the back of the head, just below his helmet. That shot kills him.

It's been more than a year since the shootout in a vacant farmhouse in the Catskills.

It is a story of extreme heroism and error, and the state police have kept a lid on the details.

The state police have yet to publicly disclose any report on their investigation, not even to Brink's widow. No grand jury in Delaware County investigated.

The state police did not publicly disclose the name of the trooper who killed Brink. The agency confirmed the identity last week, after The Post-Standard learned it independently.

In fact, almost everything in this article about what happened that day comes not from the leadership of the state police but from the account of another trooper wounded in the house and what Brink's widow has been able to learn informally from troopers.

Frustrated by a run of deaths in the line of duty, the union that represents troopers wrote a letter to the governor five months after the shooting. The union blamed Brink's death on a "failure by the agency itself."

The friendly fire death on April 25, 2007, added to a year of tragedy. In a little more than 12 months, seven troopers were shot. In 2006, jail escapee Ralph "Bucky" Phillips shot three troopers, killing one. All told, three troopers were killed by gunfire; two others died in car accidents.

Brink, 29, was having his own 12 months of stress. By day in 2006 he took the rigorous six-month training course for the state police's elite Mobile Response Team -- a unit of 45 SWAT officers. By night he attended classes at the State University at Albany, pursuing a master's degree in public administration.

The trooper Phillips killed that year, Joe Longobardo, was a friend of Brink's. While Brink was in Western New York searching for Phillips, Brink's wife, Barbara, went into labor. It became complicated. She suffered liver failure and was put on a list for a possible transplant, she said. When Isabella was born, on the day of Phillips' arrest, the Brinkerhoffs learned their daughter had Down syndrome.

Brink never let it faze him, said his best friend and fellow Mobile Response Team member, Trooper Rich Mattson. Brink was always upbeat, showing off Isabella to the people he visited on the job in Coxsackie, Greene County.

He was a jokester. He called Mattson "the old man" because Mattson, at 39, was the oldest on the Mobile Response Team.

Mattson would call Brink "the midget with the shield." The protective shield that team members carried was 5 feet 61/2 inches high. Brink, his friend said, was the only trooper who got complete coverage.

Brink became a trooper when he was 21. He'd been an emergency medical technician, saw troopers on the job and decided that's where he wanted to be, Mattson said.

Seven years into the job, Brink jumped at the chance to join the Mobile Response Team.

It was during his training that Brink met Trooper Norville Yearwood. They became friends, but Brink often told his wife he was worried that Yearwood might crack under live gunfire, she said. Yearwood, a six-year veteran at the time, was not performing well under high-stress situations, Barbara Brinkerhoff said her husband told her.

"He's going to kill somebody," she said she told her husband in 2006. She said she would later hear similar concerns from other team members.

'I didn't get hit'

It's April 24, 2007 -- 10 months after Brink, Mattson and Yearwood graduated from Mobile Response Team training.

Trim, 23, a college dropout high on PCP, steals a Dodge Caravan and drives through Margaretville, on the western outskirts of the Catskill Mountains. He's wanted on probation violation charges out of St. Lawrence County.

Trooper Matthew Gombosi pulls him over for a minor traffic violation at 3 p.m. near

the high school, according to newspaper accounts. The trooper asks for Trim's identification. Trim refuses, and Gombosi tells him he's under arrest. Trim pulls a handgun from his waistband, shoots Gombosi in the torso and drives away. Gombosi's body armor protects him. State police start their first manhunt since the deadly five-month search for Phillips in Western New York the year before.

At 7:30 a.m. the next day, an electronic burglar alarm alerts police that someone has broken into an unoccupied farmhouse in the hamlet of Arkville, about a mile from Margaretville. An hour later, seven Mobile Response Team troopers go into the farmhouse, although state police believe Trim has fled into the woods.

The team scans the first floor, then moves to the second. Brink steps into the bedroom at the top of the stairs.

Trim fires his .22-caliber handgun with a "pop-pop-pop" from a doorway that connects to another bedroom. Brink moves back when he hears the gunfire. He stumbles, then goes down. He doesn't realize that one round hit him in his double layers of bulletproof vests.

Mattson helps his pal to his feet.

"Dude, are you all right?" Mattson asks.

"Yeah, yeah, yeah," Brink replies. "I'm good. I didn't get hit."

Troopers return Trim's fire, getting off a total of 69 rounds. Trim starts shooting the .22 from the second bedroom. Some rounds just miss Mattson's head. Plaster showers down on the troopers.

"New York State Police! New York State Police! Give up right now! Give up right now!" Mattson hollers. "I'm going to kill you! This is the state police! Last chance -- let me see your hands! You better throw the guns out now!"

Mattson peeks into the second bedroom again. Trim is crouched beside a bed 8 to 10 feet away, resting a .30-.30 hunting rifle on the bed and aiming it at the doorway. The rifle is a cannon compared to the handgun.

With a deafening BOOM, Trim fires the .30-.30. It hits Mattson on the outside of his left forearm.

"Yo! I'm hit bad! I'm out!" Mattson shouts. Mattson's artery has been severed and is gushing blood. Trooper Joe Schmidt gets him to a sofa in another room and applies a tourniquet. Mattson looks down the hallway and sees a river of his own blood -- so dark red it's almost black. He loses 51/2 pints. (The average person has about 10 pints of blood in his body.) He's airlifted to a hospital. The tourniquet saves his life.

Two or three minutes later, Brink takes his position in the same doorway where he'd been shot. He spots Trim trying to sneak around the doorway in the back of the bedroom. Trim is about 12 feet away. Brink fires and hits his target. Then Yearwood shoots him from behind.

The troopers retreat, taking Brink with them. They fire tear gas into the house, not knowing Trim is already dead. One canister lands on a bed, and the house catches fire. When the fire is out in late afternoon, state police find Trim's badly burned body in the bedroom, clutching the rifle.

"Dave was a hero," Mattson said in an interview recently. "He was shot, but he stayed and did what he had to do, which was end the threat."

Widow's questions

Barbara Brinkerhoff was left to raise Isabella on her own. They live in a two-story raised ranch on a quiet street in Burnt Hills, near Albany. She keeps Brink's picture and awards in a second-floor den. Among them is a framed picture from last year's New York City Marathon with a T-shirt signed by all the members of the Mobile Response Team who ran it in Brink's honor. Some of them quit the unit after Brink's death, Brinkerhoff said.

She has questions that she says are not being answered:

- Why wasn't Yearwood disciplined for not following a team training protocol: Don't shoot when a fellow trooper is in your line of fire?

- How did Yearwood stay on the team after, she says, several members -- including her husband -- wrote peer evaluations saying he was unfit? Brinkerhoff wants to know what happened with those evaluations.

- Why didn't a grand jury investigate?

- Why do the state police refuse to release their investigative reports to her and to the public?

- Why wouldn't the agency publicly identify the trooper who killed her husband?

Field of fire

Mattson said state troopers are taught in Mobile Response Team training to never shoot from directly behind another officer.

It's standard SWAT training to never fire if a fellow officer is in your "field of fire," according to Brad Trelstad of Target Masters Training Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo., who trains SWAT officers.

If the officer in the rear has to fire, he must move forward and get on top of the other officer, Mattson and Trelstad said.

"You get right on top of that person," Mattson said. "You make sure he can't move. You make sure that that person would not be in danger if you needed to fire."

State police spokesman Lt. Glenn Miner confirmed that Yearwood shot Brink from behind, but would not say whether that was contrary to Mobile Response Team training.

State police plan to publicly release a report soon that addresses what went wrong and what needs to be changed as a result of Brink's death, Miner said.

State police showed Brinkerhoff a PowerPoint presentation on how the shooting happened. But they have refused her requests for reports on the criminal and internal affairs investigations.

"They said they needed to protect other troopers," Brinkerhoff said. "But knowing what I know, I think the public should know."

Troopers' concerns

After Brink's death, Mobile Response Team members sought out his widow and told her about the concerns they'd expressed about Yearwood during training, she said. About a dozen of them said they'd written peer evaluations that questioned whether Yearwood would fold under pressure, Brinkerhoff said.

She asked state police Superintendent Harry Corbitt last month to investigate how Yearwood made the team, despite those concerns. Corbitt told her his agency would investigate, she said.

The union that represents troopers included Brinkerhoff's death in a letter to the governor calling for an investigation into the violence against its members. The union has "absolutely no confidence in the state police's ability to investigate itself," union President Daniel De Federicis wrote in September.

"There is much more that needs to be said about this," his letter said of Brink's death. The union represents all the troopers involved, so it could not divulge more, the letter said.

About a week before the shootout, Yearwood and Mattson were involved in another raid. Yearwood performed well, Mattson said. There was no gunfire.

Mattson said he didn't have qualms about Yearwood during training.

"I never saw anything that led me to believe this situation would happen," he said. But he has heard from other team members who said they'd raised concerns, said Mattson, whose arm injury probably ended his state police career.

Tougher screening

Yearwood wasn't disciplined. He resigned on his own from the team after the shooting, Miner said. He remains a trooper, working out of the Troop K barracks in Poughkeepsie. He could not be reached for comment.

Miner did not respond to Brinkerhoff's concerns about Yearwood. But changes were made because of Brink's death, Miner said.

"We have intensified the selection process and modified some training modules," he said.

State police officials have told Brinkerhoff that the changes include the hiring of a psychiatrist who tests the trainees, she said. Supervisors try to evaluate how the troopers would react in stressful situations, she said.

"They're drilling these guys over and over, trying to break them," she said. "If they break, they're not on the team."

The changes to the team's selection process make it unlikely the same scenario will recur, Brinkerhoff said. But she said she's pushing for further investigation in honor of her husband and their daughter. Brinkerhoff is suing St. Lawrence County for failing to notify police that there was a warrant out for Trim. State law prohibits her from suing her husband's employer, which means the shooting won't be aired in a courtroom.

"I'd be doing an injustice to him and to her if I let it go," she said. "I feel I owe it to him."

No grand jury

Delaware County District Attorney Richard Northrup reviewed the shooting himself, but did not have a grand jury investigate.

The last time a trooper was killed by friendly fire, the case went to a grand jury as a matter of routine, according to news accounts. That was in 1974 in New York City.

Northrup said he considered the evidence in Brink's death and found a grand jury investigation "was absolutely unnecessary."

What about Yearwood's performance?

"My conclusion was that he didn't do anything that constituted a crime," Northrup said. He wouldn't discuss the evidence.

Over the past eight years, Northrup has presented at least two accidental shootings to grand juries. Both were hunting accidents, and in neither case was anyone indicted. He said he's also had accidental hunting deaths that he did not take to a grand jury.

Brinkerhoff said a grand jury should have investigated her husband's death. There were questions of whether Yearwood was negligent, she said. A grand jury could have issued a fact-finding report without charging anyone with a crime, she said.

"I don't think it should've been up to one person to look at this," she said, referring to Northrup. "A grand jury should've been shown everything."

In Wayne County, a grand jury did investigate another accidental death caused by a state trooper last year. The trooper was racing to a call when he ran into the back of a woman's car, killing her. The district attorney had the grand jury consider indicting the trooper on a charge of criminally negligent homicide because he was going 127 mph. The grand jury voted against it.

Outside the bubble

In his eight years as a trooper, Brink had never before fired his gun at anyone. Nor had he ever before been fired at, his widow said.

She'd heard about police officers being killed even though they were wearing a bulletproof vest, because the bullet got through a gap. She insisted that Brink always wear the two bulletproof vests. She used to tell him she wanted to make a bubble suit for him -- something that would protect him completely from bad guys.

Barbara, a registered nurse, said she doubts her husband gave much thought to going back into that bedroom after Trim shot him. He probably just thought, "I have to do this," she said.

"We have enough heroes," she said. "It would've been fine with me if he didn't."

John O'Brien can be reached at jobrien@syracuse.com or 470-2187.