By Maira Ansari

(LOUISVILLE) -- Family and friends of a 16-year-old burglary suspect who was fatally wounded by police Monday are looking for answers. Evan Harlow's family wants to know why Evan was shot so many times and why police didn't use less than deadly force to capture him. WAVE 3's Maira Ansari reports.

Police say Hodgkins and Officer Mike Perry had confronted Harlow and another juvenile they say were burglarizing a home on Ferndale Road about 7:45 Monday night.

Sixteen-year-old Samantha Harrison said she saw Evan Harlow just minutes before he was shot and killed by officer Thomas Hodgkins.

"As he was running, I hollered at him and I said: 'I love you, Evan!' and he turned back and he just winked at me."

Harrison says she doesn't believe Harlow was breaking into the home. "I think they were just at the house. And it was a friend's grandma's house, and then they went in there and got something."

On Tuesday, one day after Harlow was shot and killed by Hodgkins in a wooded area near Hurstbourne Parkway and Bardstown Road, Harlow's friends and loved ones wanted to say their last good byes to a person they will never forget.

"I know he was trying to change and trying not to go to jail," said Brandon Keith. "They didn't give him a chance."

Harlow's family, including his aunt, Michelle Harlow, acknowledged that he's had problems with the law in the past. "He didn't want to go back Juvi," she said. "He was in there just like 20 days last year. And he had gone to liberty getting straight As and Bs, he graduated the prevention program."

As police investigators scoured the area where Harlow was shot for clues, his family says they just want answers.

"Why was he killed? asked Michelle. "Why did they not shoot him in the leg? Why did they not use their little stun guns or whatever and try to save somebody's life instead of killing somebody? Seems like they are quick to shoot and then ask the questions."

Evan Harlow's birthday was April 26th.

Online Reporter: Maira Ansari