A police review panel Thursday ruled that an off-duty Chicago police officer acted in fear of his life and within departmental guidelines when he shot and killed a man who was robbing him of $11 and a book of stamps on the Far South Side.

The shooting occurred about 11:30 p.m. Wednesday outside a currency exchange at 111th Street and South Michigan Avenue, in the Roseland neighborhood, police said. Killed was Jacolbi Simpson, 21, of the 12200 block of South Morgan Street.

Advertisement

The officer, a beat patrolman for about five years, was driving home from in-service training when he stopped to buy a book of postage stamps, department spokesman Pat Camden said.

He was in uniform but he was wearing a windbreaker. The officer returned to his car in a parking lot and "as he opened the door, the guy put a gun in his back and said, 'Give me your money,'

Advertisement

" Camden said. "The officer gives him the $11 he had in his pocket, and at this point the [gunman] said, 'Is that all you got?'

"

The officer replied he had a book of stamps and the gunman demanded those too.

At that point, the gunman was distracted enough so the officer was able to draw his service weapon, announce that he was a police officer, and order Simpson to drop his gun, police spokeswoman Monique Bond said.

"The offender refuses to drop his weapon, and the officer fires in fear of his life," Bond said.

Simpson was struck in the left hand and chest and was pronounced dead at the scene. His Colt .380-caliber semiautomatic handgun was recovered.

A "roundtable discussion" involving police, witnesses and prosecutors was conducted Thursday, and it was concluded the officer acted within the use-of-force guidelines of the department when he opened fire, Bond said. The Office of Professional Standards was also conducting an investigation.

Records show Simpson was on parole for a 2004 drug conviction at the time of the shooting and had a previous conviction in 2003 for aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, for which he was sentenced to 1 year in prison.

Advertisement

jmeisner@tribune.com