BELLEVILLE, Ill. (AP) -- Police here have said much about the night Dwayne R. Jackson was shot to death by an officer.

The 20-year-old had carjacked a van with two accomplices and used it to go on an armed robbery spree, they said. He had recently been released from a Georgia prison for what that state called terrorist acts, they added.

But there remains much that police are not divulging about the Thursday night shooting, such as whether the East St. Louis man was armed at the time, why deadly force was used and why police allegedly refused to let some nearby nurses tend to him as he lay dying.

The FBI and Illinois State Police are both investigating the shooting. Neither will comment on what they have so far found out.

But the president of the East St. Louis branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People says the incident and its aftermath leave some key questions unanswered, including whether race played a part in the shooting.

``Why did they shoot to kill?'' said Johnny Scott. ``If they found a gun on (Jackson), why aren't they saying?''

Belleville police said in a statement that 29-year police veteran Lt. James Goodwin, who is white, fatally shot Jackson, who is black, while apprehending him after he allegedly carjacked a van in St. Louis and then tried to rob several people at gunpoint Thursday night.

Police had captured one of Jackson's alleged accomplices shortly before, and were still searching for a second in the area when Jackson was shot. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported the bullet entered Jackson below one ear.

Cornelius Edwards, 17, and Reginald B. Moses, 15, the alleged accomplices, face robbery and armed robbery charges in St. Clair County and will be tried as adults. Other charges are pending against them in St. Louis.

Police say they found a weapon in connection with the crimes, but they are not saying whether it was found on or near Jackson. State Police Lt. Debra Landman, to whom Belleville police referred calls Wednesday, declined to add information. She also declined to say what Jackson was doing when he was shot.

``That information is not being released,'' she said.

Ravonne Pleasant, 41, was taking a statistics class for registered nurses at McKendree College the night of the shooting. Her classroom overlooks the parking lot where Jackson was shot, and she said she heard the gun go off.

But when her instructor and a classmate, both nurses, went downstairs to offer to give Jackson first aid, Pleasant said she watched as they were turned away.

``The police said the area wasn't secure,'' said Pleasant, adding that police officers standing around the slain Jackson were doing nothing to help him.

``There were two officers standing near the body,'' she said. ``They were just standing there. I didn't see anybody check for a heartbeat.''

``I can understand if they didn't want to let all of us nurses out,'' she said. ``But you can let one person offer medical attention to someone if they need it,'' she said.

Landman said that while State Police investigators will interview anyone who was at the scene of the shooting, they are not looking into whether police denied Jackson medical attention.

``That's not the focus of the investigation,'' she said.

Allegations of racism are nothing new for the Belleville Police Department, which was accused of forming a special unit in 1985-1987 to keep black motorists out of the city, which neighbors predominantly black East St. Louis.

Under a settlement Belleville reached with the Illinois Human Rights Commission in 1992, the city agreed to put its police officers through a sensitivity-training course and to submit to five years of monitoring by the state's civil rights agency.