An off-duty Baltimore police officer working security at a South Baltimore nightclub early yesterday fatally shot a man who police said pulled a loaded gun on another officer during a confrontation.

Officer Troy Harris, a police spokesman, said the incident occurred about 1:45 a.m. outside Club Mate and Lounge in the 3600 block of S. Hanover St. in the Brooklyn neighborhood.

Advertisement

Harris said a man who was thrown out of the club went to his car and retrieved a loaded handgun. A bouncer spotted the man and alerted a plainclothes police sergeant who was working as hired security, the spokesman said.

The sergeant confronted the man and they fought, Harris said. A second police officer who had been working security inside the club came out and saw the man pull the gun and shot the man several times, Harris said, adding that police recovered the loaded weapon.

Advertisement

The spokesman identified the man who was killed as Quinton Quinell Monroe, 23, of the 100 block of Jeffrey St. Police said that Monroe had prior convictions for attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon and illegal handgun possession.

The name of the officer who fired his gun was not released.

Three police-involved shooting deaths have occurred in Baltimore this year, and a fourth person died after being hit by a Taser in a confrontation with an officer. Two people died in police-involved shootings during the same period last year. Police killed five people in 2006; all of those incidents were ruled justified.

Neighborhood activists have tried to shut down the club this year. Last month, City Council President Stephanie Rawlings-Blake called for the revocation of the club's liquor license and, in a letter to the city liquor board, referred to its "negative impact on the community of Brooklyn."

The club's license was renewed last month, but city liquor inspectors cited the club for new infractions. A hearing on the new violations is scheduled May 17.

The owner of the club could not be reached for comment last night.

gus.sentementes@baltsun.com