From The Oregonian of Thursday, May 17, 2007

Police shoot, kill armed man

Officers say a man with a rifle threatened Hillsboro paramedics answering a medical call and fired a gun at police

From The Oregonian of Saturday, May 19, 2007

Shooting inquiry considers illness

The man killed by police may have suffered a stroke or other problem



From The Oregonian of Thursday, May 17, 2007

Police shoot, kill armed man

Officers say a man with a rifle threatened Hillsboro paramedics answering a medical call and fired a gun at police



By Holly Danks and Melissa Navas



HILLSBORO -- Investigators are trying to sort out why a 53-year-old man shot at paramedics and then police before Washington County officers fatally wounded him Wednesday afternoon in a quiet suburban neighborhood.



Authorities declined to release the name of the dead man, but neighbors on Hillsboro's Southeast Wrenfield Street and Oregon records identified him as Songseumsack Tanovan, owner of Song's Auto Service Inc., an Aloha repair shop.



"He was a pretty nice guy," said Michael Zervas, 36, a neighbor who videotaped Tanovan shooting at police and police returning fire. "We never had any problems with him."



Lt. Michael Rouches, Hillsboro Police Department spokesman, said the man was fatally shot when he came to his doorway with a rifle and a pistol and fired as officers from the Washington County Tactical Negotiations Team were taking up positions.



"Unless they were faced with a deadly threat, they would not have fired," Rouches said.



The man died Wednesday evening at Emanuel Hospital & Health Center in Portland, where he was taken by Life Flight. Investigators from the county's Major Crimes Team are trying to determine how many shots were fired and by which officers. The Washington County district attorney's office will decide if the shooting was justified.



Rouches said the incident began at 2 p.m. when Hillsboro firefighters were dispatched to a 9-1-1 call from the son of a man who was complaining of arm pain. When four paramedics arrived at the home in the 6600 block of Southeast Wrenfield Street, the man was alone and disoriented.



As they spoke to the man to assess his situation, he grabbed a rifle. The firefighters ran and called police.



Zervas said he heard several gunshots and then a firefighter banged on a neighbor's door, yelling, "He's got a gun. He's got a gun. Let me in."



Zervas said he and a neighbor went to check out the commotion and saw Tanovan with a pistol and rifle.



"He fired up into the air and that's when we took off running," Zervas said. "He was yelling, 'Leave me alone, leave me alone.' "



Rouches said the man opened fire when a Hillsboro police officer arrived and parked about a half-block away. Shots struck the driver's side mirror of a neighbor's car parked in the street before ricocheting into the police car. Bullets pierced the patrol car's left-front tire, hood and windshield as the officer crouched behind the door.



Hillsboro police and Washington County sheriff's deputies evacuated two nearby houses and requested people in a four-block area to remain in their homes.



Hillsboro School District leaders locked the doors at Imlay Elementary School near the scene. Farther away, administrators at R.A. Brown Middle School, Ladd Acres Elementary School and Century High School also went into lockdown.



About 3 p.m., the man came to his doorway and shot into the air before shooting at special weapons team members who were setting up inside and on top of an armored van, Zervas said.



Police returned a hail of bullets. "I knew they had hit him," Zervas said.



Thovane Solivan, who lived a few houses away, said Tanovan liked hunting and was friendly.



"I'm surprised," Solivan said. "I never thought this would happen in this area. It's a good area."



Police had been called to Tanovan's home as recently as Saturday when his son reported that his father was upset and "acting strangely." Rouches said the man was angry at his wife, wanted to go to California and left home. The son reported him missing, though he later returned without incident.



Lacey Wilkinson, who lives a block from the shooting, was at home Wednesday with her two children when gunfire erupted.



"My heart was pounding," Wilkinson, 24, said. "My thoughts were all over the place of trying to protect the children, making sure everything was locked, trying to make sure we were in a safe area and also wondering what was happening."

From The Oregonian of Saturday, May 19, 2007

Shooting inquiry considers illness

The man killed by police may have suffered a stroke or other problem



By Holly Danks



HILLSBORO -- A man who fired more than 20 shots at police and across his neighborhood may have had a medical problem that ultimately led to his death this week, investigators said Friday.



Police fatally shot Songseumsack Tanovan, 53, Wednesday afternoon as he stood at the door of his Southeast Wrenfield Street home and fired at them.



Results of an autopsy performed Friday were not available, but police said they hoped it would shed some light on why Tanovan, described by neighbors as a friendly nonviolent man, acted so out of character.



"There is some speculation as to whether or not this guy had some episode that lent to his bizarre behavior and compulsive behavior," said Cmdr. Chris Skinner, Hillsboro Police Department spokesman.



Investigators are continuing to talk to witnesses and officers who fired at Tanovan. The names of the officers who shot him were not released.



There were a couple of dozen officers from various agencies, including the Washington County Tactical Negotiations Team, on the scene when Tanovan was shot about 3 p.m. Wednesday. They swarmed the area after Tanovan shot at firefighters responding to his son's 9-1-1 call and a few minutes later peppered a police car with bullets.



Joe Tanovan, 24, called for help at 2:02 p.m. Wednesday because he thought his father may have had a stroke. He told the emergency dispatcher that his father couldn't talk, had been walking strangely for days and was lying on the floor and experiencing numbness in his arm.



The son said Tanovan drank every bottle of alcohol in the house that day but "there really was no sense of urgency in his voice," Skinner said of the son's tenor. "He couldn't articulate what's different about him, but he knew something was strange."



During the six-minute call, Tanovan locked his son out of the house. He opened the door when paramedics from the Hillsboro Fire Department arrived and shot at them with a rifle. When a police car arrived as backup, he shot into the hood, windshield and left-front tire.



During the next hour, Tanovan fired randomly into the air from his front porch and backyard, forcing neighbors to take cover. Hostage negotiators were setting up to contact Tanovan when he came out and fired at officers.



"We may never know exactly what it was that pushed him to this point," Hillsboro police Lt. Michael Rouches said.