The Northeast Portland resident who was fatally shot by police late Tuesday was found with a loaded shotgun at his side when the bureau's tactical officers entered his townhome, a police spokesman said this morning.

Sgt. Brian Schmautz said the man, 43-year-old Steven Bolen, was a convicted felon who had recently made suicidal threats. Schmautz said multiple witnesses reported seeing him arrive at his house in the 500 block of Northeast Suttle Road armed with a shotgun and screaming at a woman to let him into the house. He used his vehicle to ram the garage door, police said.

"They hear him screaming that he is going to shoot the woman inside and make threats with the shotgun and make specific violent threats toward the person," Schmautz said.

One of the witnesses called police. Meanwhile, Bolen got inside the home.

When police officers arrived, they repeatedly identified themselves and tried to get the man to open the door. Schmautz said the officers thought a woman inside was in danger, so they forced their way into the home. They saw Bolen standing at the top of a short flight of stairs.

"They are confronted by a person with a loaded shotgun," Schmautz said. "He pointed it at them, and at that point they discharged their weapons."

The officers then retreated from the home. It is unclear if the woman the man was yelling at was in the house at the time of the shooting. Tactical officers who were called to the scene entered the house and didn't find the woman but discovered the man's body. A loaded shotgun "on him or next to him," Schmautz said.

"If there was a woman in there, if he was arguing with a person, then that person got out before the officers arrived," Schmautz said.

The man's girlfriend returned to the scene later, telling officers she had been with the man earlier in the evening.

"We have not confirmed where she was at the point that he was ramming the garage door," he said.

Schmautz said Bolen has a history of drug-related convictions. Police found 80 marijuana plants in the home.

Police identified the officers involved in the shooting as Officer Jon Dalberg, 34 and 10-year police veteran, and Officer Jason Koenig, a 32-year-old,who's been with the Police Bureau for five years.

Last night's shooting shattered the normal quiet of this well-tended, compact subdivision along the Columbia River. One resident, shocked to hear what happened, told The Oregonian that it's the kind of neighborhood where people walk their dogs and children play in the yards and on the sidewalks.

Jesse Wornum, who lives down the block from where the shooting took place, said he heard "a ruckus" late Tuesday night. He said he was on his computer about 11 p.m. when he heard someone yelling. "I could hear the police out there," he said.

He said he looked outside and saw police walking up and down the street with a police dog.

One woman who lives across the street from the duplex where the shooting happened said she could hear loud music coming from the home. She said police repeatedly asked the resident to turn down the music, but it continued.

The woman, who has lived on the street for about three years and asked that she not be identified, said police also made about a half-dozen announcements asking the suspect to come out of the home with his hands up. They told him they were concerned for his health and said they wanted to get medical attention for him.

She said most of the properties in the neighborhood are owner-occupied, but some are rentals. She didn't know whether the home where the shooting took place was rented. She said she didn't know the people who lived there or hat happened to the woman who was allegedly being threatened by the suspect.

"We are very puzzled," she said.

-- Noelle Crombie

noellecrombie@news.oregonian.com