Staff reports

Last year, Montville was taken to 12 innings by St. Joseph’s in the first round of the state tournament.

This year, it was No. 25 Stratford that took the eighth-seeded Indians to eight innings before Montville prevailed, 5-4, Tuesday in Class M action.

Jesse Sutherland drew a bases-loaded walk that forced home Sean Golden with the winning run for Montville (18-6).

Golden walked to begin the inning, Alec Brown reached on an error and Taylor Lewis drew a walk to load the bases for Sutherland.

The run completed a furious rally by Montville, as the Indians trailed 4-1 going into the bottom of the seventh.

Matt Furman’s triple scored both Sutherland, who had walked, and Rickie Geiler, who had been hit by a pitch.

Furman (3-4, two RBIs) tied the game when he scored on a wild pitch.

Montville hosts ninth-seeded Haddam Killingworth at 3:30 p.m. today.

CLASS LL FIRST ROUND

(11) Fitch 4

(22) Newtown 1

Bobby Shepherd’s one-out, two-run double in the first was the key hit in the Falcons’ four-run first inning. Fitch got the first three baserunners on, setting up Shepherd’s hit.

Those four runs were all the Falcons needed. Starting pitcher Kevin Carlow (6-0) tossed four innings of no-hit ball, throwing just 45 pitches.

Fitch, winners of 12 consecutive games, plays the winner of today’s New Milford at Ridgefield game.

CLASS L FIRST ROUND

(21) Maloney 5

(12) Bacon 3

Josh Scutnik (3-for-4) hit a two-run homer in the fifth inning to give the Bobcats a 3-2 lead, but it was shortlived. Chris Zbin homered for Bacon, which finished 13-9.

CLASS M FIRST ROUND

(9) Haddam-Killingworth 3

(24) New London 2

New London jumped out to an early lead, but the Whalers fell on a seventh-inning RBI bases-loaded single by H-K’s Sean Zapatka.

Billy Satti’s RBI single in the second inning gave the Whalers the lead. H-K scored runs in the second and third to go ahead, but New London tied the game in the sixth on a double steal, with Dijeon Sousa scoring.

(5) Waterford 7

(28) Nonnewaug 0

Lancers pitcher Pat Quinn was exceptional on the mound and off it, yielding just two hits and striking out 10 in six innings and grabbing three hits, including a double and home run, for Waterford.

Matt Tuneski also had three hits for Waterford, which hosts the winner of today’s Woodland vs. Plainfield contest at 3:30 p.m. Thursday.

(20) Bullard-Havens 13

(13) Windham Tech 8

Bullard-Havens took advantage of four Windham Tech errors to the tune of six unearned runs in the fifth inning en route to the Class M tournament win.

Jorge Jimemez went 2-for-3 for Windham Tech.

CLASS S FIRST ROUND

(11) Lyman 6

(22) Litchfield 0

The Bulldogs were paced by pitcher Sean Scanlon’s complete-game, 10-strikeout, one-hit performance. Litchfield got its only hit in the fourth inning.

Jared Szuba’s two-run single in the fifth was the key to a three-run rally, which gave Lyman plenty of breathing room. Scott Murphy had an RBI single for the Bulldogs.

Lyman is scheduled to visit Old Lyme at 3:30 p.m. today.

(10) St. Bernard 19

(23) Whitney Tech 0

Josh Bowyer pitched a complete game two-hitter and struck out 11 to lead the Saints.

Ryan Brahm, Anthony Ruffo, Jeff DeLucia, Tyler Wild and Bryan hall each had two hits for St. Bernard.

St. Bernard takes on No. 7 seed East Hampton at 3:30 p.m. today in East Hampton.

(7) East Hampton 5

(26) Tourtellotte 4

Jack Rafferty keyed a four-run fifth inning with a two-run single, but the Bellringers rallied with three in the seventh to end Tourtellotte’s season.

East Hampton’s Zach Blondin hit a two-run homer in the seventh to tie the game. A passed ball later allowed the game-winning run to score.

Rafferty was the only player for Tourtellotte with a pair of hits.

GOLF

Montville 5

St. Bernard 2

Ed Zubritsky’s 41 was the low score for Montville. The Indians won the team medal points by just three strokes.

St. Bernard 6

Old Saybrook 1

Except for a loss at No. 1, all of St. Bernard’s golfers earned wins.

Montville 5 1/2

Old Saybrook 1 1/2

Montville won despite a spectacular 2-over 38 shot by Old Saybrook’s Jon Drobiarz.

Old Lyme 6

St. Bernard 1

Old Lyme took all but one individual match in securing the victory.

Old Lyme 6

Montville 1

Montville secured its lone point in the No. 1 match, where Ed Zubritsky beat Rob Tyler by one stroke.

Windham Tech 212

Grasso Tech 219

Ryan Smith shot a 45 and Chris Gonsalves added a 52 to give the Mighty Tigers the Constitution State Conference East Division win. The Eagles were paced by Cody Wills who carded a 49.

Norwich Tech 200

Parish Hill 226

Shane Marchenkoff’s 43 and Tim Ryan’s 49 were more than enough to offset Ryan Hodis’s 47 as Norwich Tech bested Parish Hill.