Suleika Acosta KOLD News 13 Reporter

Tucson Police Department is investigating an officer-involved shooting that ended in the death of a Tucson man. The fourth, this year, it's officer Jim Stover's third fatal shooting.

It started Friday night around 8:15, near 36th Street and Campbell Avenue. Witnesses reported seeing a man waving a gun.

Police say a security guard at a Circle K flagged down an officer saying a man asked him to call 911. Officers were led just blocks away and that's where a confrontation led to the death of 48-year-old Walter Canez. A witness and Canez's family spoke with KOLD about the incident.

Just minutes after authorities were alerted about a residential disturbance, the situation turned deadly. Officers Zachary Currier and Jeffrey Stover arrived at 34th Street and Martin Avenue. That's where they spotted a man matching the description of a suspect they say was threatening residents with a gun.

"He was wearing a muscle shirt and they could clearly see that he had two handguns tucked into the waistband of his pants," says TPD Sergeant Decio Hopffer.

The man was 48-year-old Walter Canez. Police say they asked him to show his hands, that's when investigators say Canez motioned toward his guns. Both officers shot him multiple times.

"I heard more than 17 or 18 shots maybe," says a witness who didn't want to reveal his identity.

Canez died at the scene. This witness was just feet away when officers shot Canez

"I don't believe it was justified. You know if a person has a gun on their body and the police confront him with a pistol, you don't have to shoot a person that many times," adds the witness.

"When you're faced with a deadly threat, you respond with a deadly threat and that's what happened," says Hopffer.

Canez lived close to where he died.

"My brother was disabled, he lived alone," says Penny Montano.

She says her family will remember Walter as a loving father of four and an avid dog lover.

"We're struggling. As a family we'll try to do the best to give him what we have, but it's hard," adds Penny.

Both TPD Homicide Unit and Pima County Attorney's Office are investigating. Both officers are on administrative leave as part of procedure. Earlier this year, Officer Currier was awarded a medal of valor for saving Officer Stover's life.