An intoxicated Minnesota National Guard veteran of the Iraq war led authorities on a chase and threatened them with a shotgun before being fatally shot Sunday morning on a stretch of Interstate 94, according to Alexandria police.

National Guard Spc. Brian W. Skold, 28, of Sauk Rapids, had been suicidal in the past, his family told officers, and apparently refused to negotiate with police after a 2Â½-hour chase and standoff about 120 miles northwest of the Twin Cities.

Relatives of the guardsman kept in touch with him by cell phone Sunday morning and told law enforcement that Skold had been suicidal and that he was armed with a shotgun.

Police weren’t saying whether lingering effects from his deployment contributed to the incident.

Skold’s family did not return Pioneer Press calls Tuesday, but they told KSTP-TV that they don’t believe his behavior was related to his service in Iraq.

“We want you guys to know that this incident was not a direct result of his service in Iraq. He loved his country, and he served it proudly,” his ex-wife, Amanda Skold, said.

His father, William Skold, added, “We don’t know what happened anymore than anybody else does, you know?”

The Rev. Bob Goblirsch, who was Skold’s pastor when he was growing up in Madison, in western Minnesota, said many people “will believe this is war-related, but we have no evidence to that account.”

Skold served in Iraq from November 2004 to December 2005 as a personnel administration specialist with the 151st Field Artillery unit out of Montevideo, according to Lt. Col. Kevin Olson.

He enlisted Dec. 30, 1998, and was a Guard member in good standing, Olson said in a statement.

Skold’s sister Jenny Trager told the Associated Press that her brother, a graduate of Lac qui Parle Valley High School, “had just a zest for life. People really liked him. I guess he would be what I would call a social butterfly. … He enjoyed being with friends and family.”

Skold’s younger brother, Jeremy, also is in the National Guard and was deployed with him, Trager said. Pictures of the brothers have been hanging in the back of St. Michael’s Church in Madison since they were deployed.

Brian Skold was recently divorced and had four children, Trager said.

Authorities gave this account of the Sunday incident:

A call came into the Douglas County Law Enforcement Center at 3:52 a.m. Sunday about an intoxicated male with a weapon on his way to the Alexandria area in a Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck.

A Stearns County sheriff’s deputy located Skold’s vehicle about 4:30 a.m. on westbound I-94. Law enforcement, including Alexandria police, followed Skold into a rest area east of Alexandria.

Negotiations with Skold at the rest area were unsuccessful, authorities said.

About 4:50 a.m., authorities called the Douglas County SWAT team.

Skold took off a few minutes later and drove into Alexandria. Once in town, Skold turned back toward the interstate and drove east on I-94 toward Osakis.

Authorities were able to flatten Skold’s tires with deflation devices at mile marker 115 and stopped his car. Law enforcement tried to negotiate with Skold for 90 minutes, but he refused to surrender and exited his vehicle multiple times with a shotgun in his hand.

Skold eventually fired one or more shells from his 12-gauge shotgun. Two Alexandria police officers returned fire, hitting Skold.

Skold was pronounced dead at the scene.

The Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the shooting and will forward its findings to Douglas County prosecutors.

The two Alexandria officers – 10-year veteran Sgt. Chad Schroeder and five-year veteran officer Tony Kuhnau – were put on paid administrative leave after the shooting, which is standard practice in such cases.

“We extend our sincere condolences to the family members of Brian Skold,” Alexandria Police Chief Richard Wyffels said in a statement.

Funeral arrangements were pending, according to the Dingmann Family Funeral Home in Sauk Rapids.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

John Brewer can be reached at 651-228-2093 or at jbrewer@pioneerpress.com.