A judge yesterday acquitted a Prince George's County police officer who was charged with manslaughter in a fatal eight-car pileup last year on the Capital Beltway, ruling that the case against him was so inadequate that jurors could not deliberate on it.

In a ruling that cannot be appealed, Prince George's Circuit Judge Graydon S. McKee III granted a defense motion for an acquittal at the close of the prosecution's case. Such motions are often made but rarely granted.

McKee said prosecutors did not prove that Officer Scott Campbell, who drove more than 120 mph as he pursued a motorcyclist on the Beltway, acted differently than any other police officer would have in the same situation. Campbell struck another vehicle during the chase, setting off a series of collisions that killed two and injured 15.

"Under the law, I didn't think I could let you make the decision," McKee told jurors.

Prosecutors noted later that McKee did not allow them to present evidence that Campbell's actions -- including failing to call the chase in to dispatchers and turning off his cruiser's camera and overhead flashing lights -- violated police department policies.

Campbell's supporters wept at the ruling. "Obviously, we absolutely agree with the judge's decision," his attorney, Michael Belsky, said later. "Scott is very anxious to move forward with his life."

Relatives of the two men who were killed sat in the courtroom in silence.

"The judge took away our opportunity for justice," said Carolyn Clanton, the widow of one of the men. "Police are supposed to protect us. I don't feel protected. My family doesn't feel protected."

Kevin McCarter, 49, of Fort Washington and Sidney Clanton, 50, of Buffalo died after Campbell, 47, struck their SUV while pursuing a motorcycle for speeding and other violations. The May 2007 crash, during rush hour south of the Ritchie Marlboro Road exit, closed all lanes of the inner loop and snarled traffic in both directions.

The motorcyclist escaped but was identified when his girlfriend, a passenger on the bike, came forward. Prosecutors said he probably will not be charged.

In a heated exchange before the judge acquitted Campbell, McKee told Assistant State's Attorney Michael Pearson that racing down the Beltway at 124 mph "might not be what you would do," but it might be what a police officer would do.

"When you have a police officer, it is, 'What would a reasonable law enforcement officer under the same circumstances do,' and where's the evidence that you've presented that would be a departure from that?" McKee said.