

violence in the family Victim's father says court ignored request for help By Kristen Go

Denver Post Staff Writer

ABOUT THE SERIES This story is part of a year-long series about family violence. To offer story suggestions or to critique the series, call 303-820-1592 or 303-820-1829, or e-mail kgo@denverpost.com or evdreyer@aol.com. WHERE TO TURN Here are some groups to call for help: National Center for Missing and Exploited Children: 1-800-422-4453 National Child Abuse Hotline: 1-800-422-4453 National Coalition Against Domestic Violence: 303-839-1852 National Coalition Against Sexual Assault: 717-232-7460 National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-7233 National Victim Center: 1-800-394-3255 Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network: 1-800-656-4673

WESTMINSTER - Nearly two weeks before her husband slashed her with a knife, Jackie Olsen filed for divorce and asked an Adams County Court magistrate for a restraining order. It was denied because the judge didn't believe she was in imminent danger, Olsen's attorney said. As a result of the attack, her husband of 17 years, Gregory A. Olsen, was shot and killed by Westminster police Feb. 5. "Something needs to be done" Jackie Olsen's father, Richard Doll, said he and his daughter pleaded with court officials to take action. Doll said he knew Greg Olsen had the potential to become violent, especially since his marriage was ending. "I just hope that people take note of this, especially those that may have been in a position that may have done something," Doll said. "I can't blame any individual, but something needs to be done to prevent this from happening Gregory Olsen to other people." Judges, special advocates and some mediators receive no mandatory domestic violence training. Experts say understanding the dynamics of domestic violence can help when handling these volatile cases. Randy Saucedo, victim services coordinator for Commerce City and head of the Adams County Domestic Violence Task Force, knows the county has a bad reputation for how it deals with domestic violence crimes. County officials have gained a reputation for not taking domestic violence seriously, whether it's failing to take a police report or dismissing cases in court. He and others on the task force are trying to coordinate countywide training for police officers and others on issues of domestic violence. The last time there was countywide training for officers was nearly five years ago. Saucedo and others are quick to point out that a restraining order isn't an automatic protective shield. However, the restraining order does psychologically give victims some kind of support. "A restraining order is not a catchall, be-all," Saucedo said. "But it would have helped her out to believe she could go to our courthouse and get our assistance." Olsen asked Magistrate Ken Schroeder for a restraining order Jan. 24. In a complaint filed by her attorney, Susan Fort, Olsen told the court that on Jan. 15, her husband took several personal belongings, broke them and then disposed of them. Greg Olsen reportedly did this shortly after finding out his wife intended to file for divorce. Four days later, Jackie Olsen found all four tires of her car slashed. She also reported that her husband was verbally abusive and "threatened how he could kill me, bury me and no one could find me." Doll said that when the couple tried to separate in 1990, Greg Olsen smashed his wife's car and threatened her. That same year, Olsen was arrested on domestic-violence charges. "It just seemed like nobody wanted to do anything," Doll said. "What I was afraid of all along did occur." Schroeder did not return calls left by The Denver Post. Domestic violence experts have long said the most dangerous time for a woman is when she tries to leave an abusive mate. Saucedo said he believes more needs to be done to educate the public and the front-line workers who encounter domestic violence. "There are some programs that are dong an excellent job of trying to help people out," he said. "It's just that information is not getting out to the general public. I really do think that." Copyright 2000 The Denver Post. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.